Love it or hate it you can't deny that theFootball Managerseries is an institution, with numerous "fastest selling PC game ever" type awards. I haven't properly played the game for a few years now, losing interest when it seemed to get almost too in-depth for its own good. Having said that I did manage to keep Southampton up in 2005, which is better than the potential new Newcastle boss managed to do in real life. Ahem. Anywaytoday's announcementthat Football Manager 2008 will launch on Xbox 360 this March (28th) has got me interested again. Previous 360 versions were fine, but I could never find a reason to play it on console rather than a PC. So it's the online stuff in 2008 that appeals, with one-on-one matches and - ooh - the ability to host tournaments. Could Football Manager 2008 be the one that finally brings a decent footy management to a console?
I first met Bill Gates in 1984. That's right, 24 years ago. At that time personal computers were still a novelty (the IBM PC had been launched in the US two years earlier) and "Microsoft" was just another of the many companies vying for the market, competing with rivals such as Digital Research. There was even a thrivingBritishcomputer industry, which even included PC makers. What strange times.Americans regularly came to the UK to tout the wonders of their products. But even then, there was something rather different about Bill, who this week gavehis last speech at CES, and will leave Microsoft in the summer.In 1984 he met us, a group of technology journalists (I was then working on a trade publication called Computer Weekly), in a hotel room in London, where we sat around a table. The difference between Bill and all the other smooth executives who would come over to schmooze us and encourage us to write nice things quickly became apparent. It was this: if Bill thought you were talking rubbish, he'd not be too diplomatic about it. Because he could figure out where a question was going pretty soon, he'd interrupt and explain the reality. And if you tried to interject, he'd just keep talking - an assertion method that psychologists call "overtalking" - until the other person gave up.Last of the great programmersThe thing about Bill was that he always had the programmer's impatience with things that clearly wasted time. The tales of Gates's programming skills are legend: he may be the first and in some ways the last of the really great programmers.The first commercial program he wrote, in 1975, was a BASIC interpreter (a program that translates higher-level instructions into assembler) for the then-new Altair PC. It fitted into less ROM than others because it used all sorts of smart jumps within the assembler code into parts of other routines that would finish doing the processing begun earlier. (And he did it without ever touching one of the machines. It had to run first time, and he never got the chance to debug it directly.)That Basic interpreter fitted into 4 kilobytes with room to spare for programs to do some extra work. (Morehere, but you'll have to go to the Wayback Machine for the Reuben Harris link on that page.)It was programming kung-fu, and he was really limber. Virginia Tech hasa good account of his life before Microsoft. And there's also afascinating interview- though undated - via the Web Archive from an old out-of-print book that shows Gates didn't do any programming after the IBM PC. (Though his fantastic programming skills are the reason why I'm certain he never said the "640K should be enough for anyone" quote often attributed to him. He's far too smart to have ever even thought that.)Heart of a great programA quote from that book interview is certainly relevant today, in the age of giant operating systems such as Vista, Leopard and indeed Linux. Remember, he's probably talking in the late 1970s: "We're no longer in the days where every program is super well crafted. But at the heart of the programs that make it to the top, you'll find that the key internal code was done by a few people who really knew what they were doing."It's not quite as important now to squeeze things down into a 4K memory area. You're seeing a lot more cases where people can afford to use C, instead of using assembly language. Unfortunately, many programs are so big that there is no one individual who really knows all the pieces, and so the amount of code sharing you get isn't as great. Also, the opportunity to go back and really rewrite something isn't quite as great, because there's always a new set of features that you're adding on to the same program."The worst programs are the ones where the programmers doing the original work don't lay a solid foundation, and then they're not involved in the program in the future. Working with those programs gets to the point that I call 'experimental programming'. The programmers understand so little about those programs that they can't understand how changes might affect speed, for instance. They might use code that already exists, or they might not understand what dependencies will break if they change something. So they add new code, and then they run it and they say, 'Oh look, it doesn't work that way.' That's a very, very inefficient way to deal with a program, but a lot of projects end up exactly like that."Just think of the woes that have surrounded Windows Vista, and Apple's Leopard, and even how Linux has been stop-start, and you have to agree. And another one from that interview: "Features are kind of crummy in a way, because the more features you have, the bigger the manual is. And features are only beneficial if people take the time to use them, whereas speed - if you can print the pages faster, or show it on the screen faster, or recalc it faster - that's worth an incredible amount."Can't disagree, Bill.Programmers can rule the earthThe fact that he then transformed himself, and Microsoft, into a killer chief executive and organisation just goes to prove that programmers can rule the earth, if they only have the motivation. Quite what Bill's deepest motivation really is, I don't think anyone's ever figured out.Yet he was usually pretty terrible at specific predictions. I think that trouble with forecasting the future is also down to his programming instincts too: as he says in that interview, "Before I sit down to code something, most of the instructions have already run through my head. It's not all laid out perfectly, and I do find myself making changes, but all the good ideas have occurred to me before I actually write the program."Apple boss and Gates contemporary Steve JobsContrast that with the other person who we all go on and on (and on) about Steve Jobs, who is such a contemporary of Gates's that they used to go on double dates with eligible women. Jobs isn't a programmer. At all. His skills lie in how he deals with people, not code.Thus Bill missed the net (which led to some rather hurried revision of his book The Road Ahead); thought people would want Spot watches; thought people would want Tablet PCs (his most notable error, because it was really based on personal prejudice); thought spam and hence the people who both create and  reply to it could be defeated.The common flaw in all of those (apart from missing the rise of the net) is not knowing how people will behave. Jobs rarely makes those mistakes, because he knows what people are like.Failure of imaginationNow Bill is moving on to tackle malaria and other diseases in the developing world. And even there, his coding skills are actually to our benefit, as awise article by Clive Thompson in Wired pointed out: "We'll donate thousands of dollars to bring a single African war orphan to the US for lifesaving surgery, but we don't offer much money or political pressure to stop widespread genocides in Rwanda or Darfur."The problem lies within ourselves (Horatio). We're good at empathising with the few people we see on the TV screen; but have no deep understanding of widespread suffering. Normal minds can't comprehend it, and just look past it.Bill doesn't. As Thompson explains, Gates is the sort of person who's able to hold a huge amount in his head, seeing how it might fit together, and then is able to make logical jumps to the point where everything does fit together. "So maybe that's why he is able to truly understand mass disease in Africa. We look at the huge numbers and go numb. Gates looks at them and runs the moral algorithm: Preventable death = bad; preventable death x 1 million people = 1 million times as bad."Perhaps that's true. One can almost forgive him Windows for it. After all, even if 1 billion Windows licences = extremely annoying, 1 billion saved lives could more than make up for it.So, 24 years on, sayonara, Bill. We might see your like again. But I doubt we'll ever see your equal.
A hi-tech system which allows users to control their computer by simply waving their hands in the air is being showcased at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas this week - and has the added advantage of making the user feel like Tom Cruise.The Zcam device, which draws inevitable comparisons with the science fiction movie Minority Report, in which Cruise plays a futuristic police officer shuffling computerised information around simply by moving his hands and fingers, is expected to be on sale this year.The innovative system is based on a small 3D camera which sits below the computer screen and is calibrated to track movement. While most cameras measure colour, the Zcam uses infrared and radar-like systems to sense distance and determine how far away a user is, as well as what they are doing.The result is that the camera can recognise hand gestures and the movement of individual fingers, allowing the user to control the activity on the computer screen by flicking a thumb left or right, or pointing fingers at the screen itself.The system, which is being displayed to thousands of visitors at the world's biggest technology showcase, can be used on day-to-day computers in homes and offices. But because it works up to about three metres from the subject - allowing people to use their entire body if they stand further away from the camera - it could also be used as a next generation control system for video gaming.Nintendo's Wii console has become hugely popular thanks to its motion-sensitive controller, which allows players to act on the screen simply by waving the pad around. The Zcam dispenses with that idea by allowing gamers to interact with the screen simply by moving."The Wii has shown us the way, but we can take things so much further," said Zvi Klier, the chief executive of 3DV, which makes the camera. "We think this is the next step."The Israeli company has been working on the system for 10 years and plans to release its first low-cost camera to the public this year. It is likely to cost around &pound;100 with a game, although prices could decrease. Like many from Israel's burgeoning technology market, the system was derived from the defence industry. More complex versions had previously been used to help with the accuracy of missiles. The company received $15m in funding from venture capital, including Silicon Valley firm Kleiner Perkins Caulfield &amp; Byers.3DV is not alone in offering motion sense technology. A small Californian company, Gesturetek, is also at the show this year to display its prototype, Airpoint, which uses two small cameras to sense the movements of your fingers. It allows surfers to control computers like a touchscreen but without physical contact."We think the interactivity of all this stuff improves with depth," said Francis MacDougall, Gesturetek's chief executive. "We see it initially as a gimmicky business-presentation type device, but you could see it built into the corners of a laptop."Elsewhere, larger companies are showing off other novel - if slightly less advanced - interfaces, including a TV system from JVC which can change channels or turn off and on by listening for particular sounds, such as a handclap.More than 140,000 visitors are expected to visit the show this week.
The iTunes podcast chart today (iTunes chart URL- requires iTunes to open) shows that the new Tech Weekly podcast is in there at No.8 - ahead of Scott Mills and Chris Moyles and Zane Lowe of Radio 1, and only trailing, let's see, Russell Brand, Ricky Gervais, Radiohead, Jonathan Ross, BBC4's Friday Night Comedy, Jimmy Carr and the "best of YouTube" (is that apodcast?).If you haven't listened yet, you can find thelatest instalment here, andsubscribe in iTunes(and, hmm, leave your reviews - though isn't it kind of early to be deciding if we're in-depth? We're getting deeper all the time..)But more importantly, we want to hear what you want to hear about. What subjects do you want us to cover? How? Tell us below, oremail us.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
In yesterday's paper I asked - naybegged- for gaming suggestions now that I've gone over to the Mac side. In the interest of interactive self-actualisation (for both myself and Keef who has a Mac too), can anyone suggest good sources for Mac releases and reviews?Many thanks in advance.
After years in the videogame wilderness, left behind in the industry's frenzied pursuit of ever more authentic 3D visuals and cool gangsta violence, fans of the old LucasArts point and click adventures can finally come in from the cold. Last year,Telltale Gamesbegan its second series of Sam &amp; Max adventures and Tim Schafer started generating real interest with his Spinal tap-style adventure,Brutal Legendwhich stars Jack Black but might still be really funny.Now, Schafer's Monkey island cohort Ron Gilbert has announced on his blog,GrumpyGamer, that he has finally found a publisher for his episodic RPG, DeathSpank, described by the designer himself as, "a Monkey Island style adventure game with the wicked RPG gameplay of Diablo". Gilbert spent four years hawking his concept around the industry with little success. As he explains:I roughed out a game design for the first episode and started pitching it around and a funny thing happened. Everyone hated it. But the weird thing is the more publishers that turned it down, the more convinced I became that this was a great idea. Every rejection fueled me with excitement and the knowledge that I was right. Nothing says innovation and creativity like armed security showing up to escort you out of the building while saying "Let's not have any trouble".Finally, however, small Canadian publisherHothead Gameshas taken the plunge, also employing Gilbert as Creative Director. There's no word on a release date for the first episode yet, but it does have a subtitle: Episode One: Orphans of Justice.A teaser siteshows the DeathSpank character, created by Gilbert and illustrator Clayton Kauzlaric, standing atop a pile of skulls clutching a fistful of dollar bills.We're still a long way from getting Monkey Island onto DS, but, you know, one step at a time and all that...
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday January 24 2008In the below interview with Diane Greene, chief executive of VMware, we stated that her husband Dr Mendel Rosenblum had been called to a meeting with Microsoft in the late 1990s but that the meeting had come to nothing. In fact, although the meeting had been suggested it didn't take place. We also said that an initial plan to float the business collapsed before it was taken over by EMC in 2003. VMware has asked us to point out that there was no planned float at that time.Diane Greene hates talking about herself and would rather everyone focused on VMware, the technology company she co-founded with her husband 10 years ago. Having been the subject of one of last year's most successful New York Stock Exchange flotations should surely have given the company all the exposure it needs, but Greene still finds herself faced with bafflement when she broaches the subject of VMware's technology - called virtualisation - even among her contemporaries from America's female business elite."So I was sitting at a table with a bunch of women from the media industry recently and they were asking 'so what do you do?'," says the 52-year old as she polishes off her morning coffee in an upmarket West End hotel. "And I tried 'we help people in the IT industry run their computers a lot more effectively and save them a lot of money', but that didn't work, they just asked, 'What do you mean, what do you do?' And so I mentioned 'virtualisation' and they said, 'Oh you mean like Second Life.'"She gives me a look. "'No,' I said. 'What we do is basically plumbing but it is enormously valuable.'"Just how valuable that "plumbing" is became obvious in August as VMware lived up to its moniker of "the new Google" because of its phenomenal growth and stock performance. By the time VMware's first set of results as a listed company were released back in October, the stock had tripled.Founded by Greene, a prize-winning yachtswoman, and her husband, Mendel Rosenblum, a professor at Stanford University, VMware has seen its sales rise eightfold in the past four years, hitting $354m in the third quarter of 2007. The stock listed at $29 in August and closed the year at over $80, valuing the Palo Alto-based business at more than $32bn and making it one of America's biggest software companies. It starts 2008 bigger than Ford and General Motors combined.VMware's IPO made virtualisation into one of the hot topics on Wall Street last year. Though IT heads have followed it for ages, this year expect to be hearing "virtualisation" from the mouths of chief executives and finance directors on both sides of the Atlantic, because of 2008's biggest business issues: cost savings and energy efficiency.What is the Matrix?The VM in VMware stands for virtual machine, which has come to mean the use of software to fool computer applications into thinking they are using a particular piece of hardware when they are using a virtual machine created by software. The Guardian's technology editor draws a parallel with the question posed in Hollywood blockbuster The Matrix: how does a person know if everything they experience is being fed directly to their brain, rather than through their physical body?VMware's first application, for instance, allowed people to run applications that required Microsoft's Windows on machines that were in fact using the rival Linux system. Techies loved it and the company has since produced software that allows users of Apple computers to do the same thing.But the real boost to VMware is in corporate IT. Servers cost a fortune to run, even when idle at night. Virtualisation allows companies to use fewer servers, or power down under-utilised hardware by shifting work onto other machines.VMware estimates that running a server for a year generates about 12.5 tonnes of CO2. An average American family car doing 12,000 miles a year at an average of 30mph generates about 3.5 tonnes. "So retiring a server is a few cars off the road," she says.Several US energy companies - especially in California, where generating capacity is already stretched - are offering rebates to companies that make use of virtualisation and the European commission is looking at similar moves here.Alongside all of the Fortune 100 and America's National Security Agency, VMware can count British companies such as Barclays among its clients. "The benefits to a business are so huge, we have always, right from the founding of the company, believed that this should run on all hardware," says Greene.VMware came out of research done by Greene's husband Rosenblum, the firm's chief scientist, and his team at Stanford University into computer operating systems. Greene met him in 1985 when they were students at the University of California, Berkeley.In fact, personal details such as this are few and far between with Greene. While she is very personable she is also almost painfully humble and loathes talking about herself, the complete antithesis of the stereotypical American celebrity chief executive. She deflects all questions about her personal life with the line that the company is more worthy of people's attention than she is. She refuses point blank, for instance, to give her date of birth or any information about her two children.Nor does she feel she has been particularly disadvantaged in the business world because of her gender. Recently named by the Wall Street Journal as one of the top 50 women of 2007, she said: "I've really never felt disadvantaged being a woman."In her view "tenaciousness and perseverance - there's no substitute for it" and that is what has got her to the top.What is known about her life is that she grew up in Annapolis, on the coast of Maryland, in a house on the shores of the Chesapeake Bay. Her father was an engineer and her mother a teacher. It was on the north-eastern seaboard that she developed a passion for water sports, especially sailing and later windsurfing. She helped to organise the first windsurfing world championship in 1974 and two years later won the women's national double-handed dinghy championship.Her love of the sea influenced her choice of college education after she studied mechanical engineering at the University of Vermont. She moved to MIT to study naval architecture before a brief spell working for an oil consultancy based in San Francisco. She left that job relatively quickly to go to Hawaii to design windsurfing equipment, but returned to the US a few years later to study computer science at Berkeley. She worked for a succession of Silicon Valley stalwarts: Sybase, Silicon Graphics and Tandem. But her first big break came with the founding of her own media streaming business, VXtreme, in the early days of the dotcom boom. It was sold for a rumoured $75m in 1997.At roughly the same time, Rosenblum and his team were called to a meeting with Microsoft. Though that meeting came to nothing, interest from the world's largest software company suggested to Rosenblum and Greene that the professor's work could become the basis of a business. In 1998, he took two years' leave from Stanford and Greene took an unpaid job running a business that launched its first product the following year."It's taken longer than we thought," admits Greene. "We wrote a mission statement when we founded the company and we optimistically said that virtualisation would be ubiquitous by the year 2000. We were off by many years but we had the right idea."Part of the initial problem faced by VMware was that during the dotcom boom no one was really interested in reducing costs because it was so easy to raise cash for investment.Tenth birthday"We are 10 years old this month and we spent a lot of years showing people the value of virtualisation and it really was just not obvious to people that it had any, especially as we were coming out with our first server products before the bubble burst and those were real go-go days."As that boom turned to bust an initial plan to float the business collapsed and in 2003 American data storage group EMC snapped up the company for $625m. EMC sold small stakes in the business to Intel and Cisco ahead of its flotation of 10% of the company in August last year.But Greene's ship has run into choppy waters lately. Though VMware's stock price performance has been incredible, it is down from the $125 reached in October as some on Wall Street reckon the hype has been overdone. Meanwhile, rivals including Microsoft and Oracle are quickly moving in to grab a slice of the virtualisation market."Anybody that sees our numbers is going to say 'I want to join that market'," admits Greene of these new entrants. "But we feel like we are in an extremely good position. We have delivered tremendous value to our customers, over 20,000 of them."And if the business continues performing as it has over the past decade, maybe the next time Greene finds herself around the table with the media types, they will know exactly what virtualisation is. And perhaps even who she is, although she would probably hate that.CVBorn1955 - she refuses to say whenEducationBachelor's degree in mechanical engineering, University of Vermont; master's degree in naval architecture, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; master's in computer science, University of California, BerkeleyCareerOil consultancy, San Francisco; windsurfing gear designer in Hawaii; management roles at Sybase, Tandem and Silicon Graphics; founder VXtreme; co-founder and chief executive VMwareFamilyMarried to Mendel Rosenblum, Stanford University professor and VMware's chief scientist. Two childrenHobbiesSailing
In a bizarre recent example of shooting the messenger, film star andNintendo DS spokespersonNicole Kidman has beenlambasted by scientistsfor suggesting that Dr. Kawashima's Brain Training game for the handheld DS console improves cognitive abilities.In the ad, she states (in a clearly very scripted way),I have quickly found that training my brain [with Nintendo's Dr Kawashima's Brain Training computer game] is a great way to keep my mind feeling young.But an article inThe Telegraphargued to the contrary. Dr. Jason Braithwaite says,There is no conclusive evidence showing that the continued use of these devices is linked to any measurable and general improvements in cognition. Practice at any task should lead to some form of improvement for that specific task.It seems Dr. Braithwaite didn't do a full literature review.Yesterday I had the pleasure to sit on a panel atBETT, the leading conference in the UK and Europe on learning, education and technology, withMargaret Robertson(erstwhile editor of Edge), Alice Taylor (Channel 4's very game-oriented Commissioning Editor for Education, and her offWonderland), Gobion Rowlands from serious games developersRed Redemptionand Derek Robertson fromLearning and Teaching Scotland. In the course of pre-, during and post-panel conversations, Derek let slip that his research provided evidence for the effectiveness of Dr. Kawashima - at both the cognitive and affective levels.From theLTS website:Our results have shown that a small, cleverly designed handheld game can significantly enhance learner performance in mental maths as well as having a positive impact on other aspects of classroom life. Our research methodology used only four of the 25 available Brain Gym activities, and the children from theBrain Gymgroup spent less than half the time using the movements than did the children playing the Nintendo game. Despite this lack of parity in both approaches, the limited Brain Gym intervention did significantly improve the children's performance in maths, although not by as much as did the more extensive use of the Nintendo game.The site offers extensive videos that document the game's successes across many areas of classroom outcomes, including evidence of increase in maths ability (operationalised by speed and accuracy), learners' enhanced confidence, evidence of positive behavioural impacts, an increase in pupil self-esteem and greater collegiality between students in the classroom.The study was carried out in three P6 classrooms in Dundee. More information is availablehere.This preliminary test has been extremely well-received and Derek and his crew are now pushing forward with a larger sample and funds from the Government. He sent us this in an email:We always stressed that our project was a small scale sample and that great claims were difficult to make because of this. However, it raised enough interest for Her Majesty's Inspectors of Education to come on board with me to widen the sample to 15-20 schools this year to do a more 'research credible' sample size for this.You can also find out how the LTS team made Guitar Hero part of the education process (and not in music class)here.Further information about the potential for games in curriculum-based education can be found in the 2006 report,Unlimited Learning, sponsored by the DfES and ELSPA (disclosure: I managing edited and was the primary author on the report).
Apple has promised to cut the price of iTunes music downloads for UK customers to bring them into line with the cost across the rest of Europe.The move, announced by the European commission yesterday, comes after an investigation triggered by complaints from the consumer group Which?At present UK customers pay 79p a download, compared with 74p in mainland Europe. Apple will cut prices at its UK iTunes store within six months.The iTunes online store detects customers' country of origin through their credit card details and restricts their options accordingly. Consumers using a credit card issued by a UK bank are charged 6% more than those in the rest of Europe. The price gap was 10% when the investigation began in April 2007, and narrowed only because of changes in the exchange rate.When Which? prompted the EC's anti-trust proceedings last year Apple blamed the disparity on the record companies charging it more to distribute their music in the UK. Following yesterday's decision it has threatened to "reconsider its continuing relationship" with record labels that do not lower UK wholesale prices to the pan-European level within six months."This is an important step towards a pan-European marketplace for music," said Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive. "We hope every major record label will take a pan-European view of pricing."But music companies don't agree. Jonathan Arber, an analyst at the media consultancy Ovum, said this would be "likely to further damage Apple's already fractious relationship with the major labels", adding that music companies would work towards freeing themselves from the increasing power of iTunes.Commenting on the outcome, the EU competition commissioner, Neelie Kroes, said: "The commission is very much in favour of solutions which allow consumers to benefit from a truly single market for music downloads."The commission added that it was aware that some record companies, publishers and collecting societies still apply licensing practices which can make it difficult for iTunes to operate stores accessible by consumers anywhere in the EU.The EC also considered complaints about iTunes downloads not being playable on portable devices other than iPods. But it declined to take action, saying that because Apple is "not in a dominant position on the market ... the fact that they choose not to ensure interoperability is not an anti-trust violation".Which? lawyer Chris Warner welcomed Apple's announcement, saying: "We complained about Apple's price discrimination back in 2004, so we're glad they've finally agreed to give British music lovers a fair deal ... we hope other internet companies - including online music companies - will follow Apple's lead and match UK prices to prices in continental Europe."
I recently capitulated to peer pressure and jumped on the Mac bandwagon. The last time I had an Apple computer, the first Clinton to run for US president had just thrown his hat into the ring and Windows 95 was a twinkle in Bill Gates's eye.It didn't last long, though; by the time Bill had taken over Capitol Hill - and the world in general - I had reverted to my old ways. The PC had been my gateway drug, and I soon left Apple-land for the warm embrace of MS-Dos. Since then, it's been a long road to my eventual conversion.Not all the kinks are ironed out; you won't catch me proselytising all things Mac, nor will you find my trusty old PC in the bin. Sure, my shiny new laptop has all kinds of widgets and gadgets that make things super-easy for someone who's grown accustomed to wrestling with a buggy operating system and rather awkward navigation. But the Mac buck stops short of offering compelling entertainment for gamers. And having been solidly entrenched in the Windows world for so long, I don't even know where to begin. Searches through sites such as GameFAQs, Play.com and Gamespot result in fewer than 100 games released for the Mac operating system, most of which are simulations, puzzles or role-playing games. The Sims titles dominate, followed closely by Command and Conquer and Tiger Woods PGA. Electronic Arts, publishers                                                                                          of all of these titles, can clearly afford to dedicate the manpower to develop for this market.The larger massively multiplayer games, notably World of Warcraft and EVE Online, have Mac versions too, but anecdotal evidence suggests that Mac communities are outcasts in a PC wilderness, forced to band together and offer mutual support rather than rely on the collected wisdom of the Windows crowds who litter wikis and forums across the internet.All is not lost, of course. One of the key features that forced my card into the hands of the cashier at the checkout is how easily Macs support PC interoperability. So I've split my hard drive into Mac and PC, and have the option to start in Windows or Leopard or to run XP in a virtual machine.Paradoxically, the PC games I play on the dedicated partition benefit from the Mac hardware and run faster and prettier than on any dedicated PC I've used before. But it would be nice to have the same choice on the OS X platform rather than resorting to a Windows partition.And so Windows gets a stay of execution as I search for a place to find Mac-supported games. Any and all suggestions to the gamesblog, please. In the meantime, I'm going to track down those merry Mac pranksters, Mitchell and Webb.
"We may keep you informed of such products and services (including special offers, discounts, offers, competitions and so on) by any of the following methods: E-mail, Telephone, SMS text message and other electronic messages such as picture messaging ..." This was the site's privacy policy. What I wanted to buy: a lightbulb.It turned out that this privacy policy wasn't really the site's own policy. When asked, the company explained: "It's an off-the-shelf policy and actually doesn't reflect the policy that we follow." In other words, it came with its website because some lawyer thought more about covering the company's legal position than consumer protection. Sadly, this is what most privacy policies are in fact about.Privacy fundamentalistsThis particular shop rewrote its policy entirely on relaunching its site a few weeks later; it is now a model of brevity, clarity and restraint. That makes it a rarity. Amazon.com's privacy policy, for example, provides explicit detail about what information it collects and what it may do with it. And what it collects is everything: you can view all the purchases you've ever made from the site, even if the first one was back in 1996. It does not offer you any way to delete this history or control how much is saved, and there isn't any obvious way to close your account.But who reads privacy policies anyway? Lorrie Cranor, an associate research professor in computer science and engineering and public policy at Carnegie- Mellon University, says: "Except for a very small group of privacy fundamentalists, the only time people read them is if there's a problem." Then, of course, it's too late - as Facebook users recently found out when the service started displaying purchasing information from a variety of online partner vendors such as Blockbuster. However, Cranor adds, at a recent workshop held by the US Federal Trade Commission, all the participants agreed that privacy policies need to be there and need to be clear - but they need to be easier to access and understand.The auction website eBay disagrees. "We believe consumers do look at privacy policies for specific issues they are concerned about, such as sharing with third parties and marketing uses," it says.The more important way privacy policies are communicated, eBay argues, is by consent forms or opt-in/out boxes, and this is a better way to make privacy choices visible to consumers. The company offers its AdChoice as an example: a link next to its banner ads takes users to more information about how the ads are targeted, as well as the chance to opt out.Amazon.com's privacy policy reflects another growing trend: it's so long that it has a table of contents. The increasing length and complexity of these policies, says Cranor, is making companies adopt a system of "highlights" notices. "The idea is that when you click on the privacy policy link you get a one-screen summary and then if you want more you click through and get more details," she says. There is an effort to standardise what's in the summary to make it easier for people to get the gist quickly. "It's going in the right direction, but not far enough, because what's standardised is the set of sections that should be in the short notice." There are no standards for what text should be under those section headings.In the early 2000s, Cranor was part of Platform for Privacy Protection (P3P), an effort by the World Wide Web Consortium to give users an automated way of setting privacy preferences; the browser reads and acts upon P3P options set by websites. P3P still exists in Internet Explorer: look at the Privacy tab under Internet Options in the Tools menu and you'll find its slider bar. Firefox no longer supports it, in part because its use isn't that widespread.The problems highlighted by the FTC workshop inspired Cranor's research group to take advantage of one of her earlier projects, Privacy Bird (privacybird.org), a plug-in for Internet Explorer that reads P3P policies in detail. Cranor's group took the engine behind Privacy Bird and built it into a shopping search site, Privacy Finder (privacyfinder.org), so that each hit displays an icon showing how closely it matches the user's privacy preferences. They then used it in a project to test whether such a system influences people's purchasing choices. Their conclusion (PDF:tinyurl.com/2fyvwz): people's purchasing habits do change when privacy information is presented to them in a quickly understandable way. Some will even pay a premium in order to protect their privacy."We need a nutrition label for privacy," Cranor says. "We're all used to reading nutrition labels, and we know where to find what. Privacy labels should be the same way."The problem with that approach, argues Brendon Lynch, Microsoft's security strategist, is that, unlike food, "every site does a different thing". Lynch says Microsoft takes a variety of approaches, embedding privacy options into software so users see them as they go. Often, he says, if people don't read your privacy policy it's because they trust your brand or service. But also, "people are more concerned about privacy online when there are tangible consequences, for example the rise in identity theft and online fraud".But one of the reasons companies need privacy policies is that in much of today's technology, privacy is added as an afterthought. Designing in privacy isn't the fun part of development, and even if it were it goes against the business models of many companies, as Ian Cheeseman of the Connecticut-based PR company Lakeview Associates, explains. "Privacy policies aren't a way of protecting data," he says. "They're a way of gaining access to data. They're written by lawyers, but commissioned by the marketing department. I have sat in marketing meetings where they say, 'What do we want to do with all this data?' Data is a resource."Cooperation requiredSeen through that lens, almost every privacy policy is a legalese statement of what the company thinks it can get away with. How you get merchants to adopt an icon scheme when it may act against what they conceive to be their own best interests is a conundrum.Cranor's idea is that "if everybody is using the scheme, not adopting it will look worse than adopting it but having a not-great policy". Making it happen, she concedes, would require the cooperation of a major search engine. She has been talking to some of these, but her experience perfectly illustrates why we're unlikely to see this technology widespread any time soon: "One company was very interested until it started looking at its own privacy policy and saw it wouldn't score very well. And that was that."
A live connection between a satellite and a mobile phone is a marriage made in the heavens. Or ought to be if everything works as it says on the box. Five years of occasionally reviewing these devices has left me in awe of the potential applications - knowing what is happening around you and navigating anywhere - without ever being tempted to buy one, because of their unreliability. They perform well in open country where you don't need them, but much less well in towns where they would really come in handy. It is nine months since my last foray, so I thought it was time to reexamine my prejudices.Recently I made a few long journeys with an on-loan Navman S90i. It quickly picked up the satellite signals despite being parked between apartment blocks and took a route out of central London that hadn't occurred to me before. Sadly, over an hour and a half later I was still marooned in central London instead of the normal 15 minutes it takes for an exit. It turned out to be one of those periodical snarl-ups that happens in the capital and wasn't Navman's fault (though if it had been smarter it could have warned me to stay at home).After that it was fine. It guided me well to my destination even though it hadn't been told that a roundabout on a major road had been replaced by an overpass some eight months back. It also chose a much longer - but slightly quicker - route using motorways rather than cross-country roads, but such un-green behaviour is normal for satnav.It has a built-in camera so you can take a photo of your destination with a GPS (satellite) fix on its exact location or anywhere else, so on future journeys you just click on the photo and it will work out a route from wherever you are. My wife and I both agreed that this was the best kit we had encountered.The catch? It costs up to &pound;249 so is a bit of a turnoff for the non-corporate market. A better bet for an individual would be a smart device that has GPS as an extra. The new Nokia N810 Internet Tablet costing &pound;309.99 including VAT (or less with some web offers) and the Nokia N82 phone both have GPS. The N810 took quite a long time to find an initial satellite fix but then tracked me effortlessly across London with an "X" marking the spot where I was on a map with my walking speed attached. It worked surprisingly well, even in some narrow streets. Curiously, while it will pinpoint your destination, it appears you have to pay extra to be guided along to it. The map highlights nearby Wi-Fi hot spots, hotels and restaurants, but this is no substitute for user-generated content about local activities. It weighs the same as its predecessor, the Nokia N800, even though it has GPS and a new keyboard which pulls out from under the screen. It works OK for two-handed texting and short emails but is no good for serious typing, which is a shame. The N810 makes internet telephone calls, but not conventional ones.The N82 includes most smartphone functions such as music and games but has an irritatingly small keypad. Its most impressive feature is a cracking 5 megapixel camera with Carl Zeiss lens and Xenon flash - the best I have tried on a mobile and one which almost removes the need for a separate digital camera. But about its GPS, the less said the better. A week's spasmodic testing failed even to get a map on screen. It kept telling me to zoom in closer, but it failed whenever I tried. It was presumably a faulty device - but it also happened to me with two different N95 models last year.If you want this otherwise admirable device, make sure the GPS is tested before handing over your money. That said, finding two out of three GPS devices that actually work in a user-friendly way is a milestone. As soon as they get it right on a standard smartphone I will be a buyer.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
There are loads of consumer scanners if all you want is to digitise your analogue holiday snaps or scan A4 pages. But for big items - documents, certificates and newspaper and magazine pages, up to A3 size (two A4 pages, long sides together) - there's almost nothing affordable. Until now.The ScanExpress A3 USB 600 Pro is a respectable stab at filling that gap from Mustek. The scanner itself is not a thing of beauty, being chunky, beige and of necessity quite large, but with an SRP of &pound;99.99, it is your only option under &pound;100 - and indeed the next cheapest, according to pricerunner.co.uk, is the Canon DR-2050C at &pound;317.23.At this price, you're bound to get compromises, and this is by no means perfect. Scans of photographs aren't very sharp, though documents are (fine detail in the 50-year-old certificate above was captured). The driver software works with Windows Vista, but the help file that comes with the bundled app Ulead Photo Express does not, leaving you floundering if you need help with its unintuitive interface. I wanted to change the default save location for files but couldn't find (a) what that is nor (b) whether I could change it.If you decide to use the scanner just with its driver, it is still counterintuitive. It didn't recognise that I have Adobe's Photoshop CS3 installed, and so didn't offer it as a default application to work with. The default save formats are either a .tiff - which produces enormous files - or a .jp2 (JPEG2000) file, which Photoshop doesn't recognise natively.However, you can import files via its Twain driver directly into Photoshop (or the cheaper Photoshop Elements); this I preferred, as, frankly, I hate Ulead Photo Express, which is ugly and difficult to use. Using Photoshop or Elements means you can specify your preferred file storage format, such as .psd or .jpg.The scanner is much better with text documents. You can specify either Word or Wordpad as your default file format (though, again, you can't specify a preferred save destination) and it copes well with OCR (optical character recognition), dealing respectably with a big magazine article that I scanned as a test.Where this device comes into its own, though, is for the family genealogist. It can handle documents such as birth certificates, which are often larger than the A4 format of other consumer scanners. Save at a high resolution (in Photoshop the maximum is 600dpi, which is plenty) and you'll get big, clear and readable digitisations of irreplaceable family documents. But if you just want to save your old photos, go for something else, not this scanner.Kate BevanPros:Good, clear scans of big  documents, good OCRCons:Big, ugly and beige,  clunky softwaremustek.com
Evolution not extinctionYes, the big switch (The big switch may turn off jobs, January 3) is moving the power towards the customer and away from the media creators/providers. However, not all jobs are being "lost". The roles are evolving. Welcome to the next generation and the new breed of creators who are able to prosper in these fast-changing times.James Wigg,Auckland, New ZealandSoggy chipsThe vulnerabilities of chip-and-pin are becoming more apparent ("Has chip-and-pin failed to foil the fraudsters?", January 3) less than two years after its rollout. What was the point of spending &pound;1.1bn upgrading cards by fitting them with electronic chips if the chips aren't used to secure every transaction?Instead, to avoid inconveniencing customers, ATMs are allowed to default to reading the magnetic stripe - offering fraudsters an opportunity to create cloned cards. Clearly what we need is something simpler yet more secure. A one-time pin that provides a representation of your identifying secret, without actually divulging it, would immediately strengthen the security of the chip-and-pin system.Jonathan Craymer, Huntingdon&#183;It is Barclays' policy to send out an unsolicited pin reminder with every card it issues, sent in the same week as the card under separate cover. However, both are routed though the same distribution company and are subject to interception.The bank should be liable if it has disclosed the pin, whether by posting it without authorisation or by putting it on the card - even if it is encrypted or obfuscated in some other way.Matt Langley,by emailSlavs to the Russian webDoes your author actually have any evidence that the Russian government is actively seeking to implement the restrictions he mentions (Kremlin eyes internet control, January 3)? For what it's worth, the Russian government has stated that it has no such intentions. With the advent of non-Ascii domain names, it is quite natural that Russia should seek to use the Cyrillic rf, since rf is the standard abbreviation used here for the country's official name (the Russian Federation).Elsewhere, the author writes: "Davies explains that Russian Cyrillic keyboards make it difficult for Russian users to search for domain names using the roman letters of Ascii code." This is not true. Russian keyboards feature both Roman and Cyrillic characters.Creating a Russian-only internet and completely cutting off Russians' access to the global net would cause chaos. Economically, it would be a very poor move, if not a disaster. Even creating a Russian-only internet alongside the global internet would be problematic, because so many Russian sites contain links to external non-Russian ones (many Russian sites, indeed, have English-language versions).Alistair Gainey,Moscow&#183;Russia is obviously trying to create an easier censorship apparatus. Given the disorganisation and weakness of the political opposition, censoring their websites will remove their last remaining strength.www.rethinkingsecurity.typepad.com&#183;More bonkersness from our favourite huge state.www.technovia.co.ukBroken LeopardHaving just upgraded from a perfectly working version of Tiger to a very broken version of Leopard, I too am considering going back to the old OS (Letters, January 3). Even though I am an Apple fan, I just don't understand why we put up with this from the software industry. After all, we wouldn't accept this if our washing machine only did half the things it was supposed to. I have raised the matter on the Apple forum to see what they say, and if the answer is not acceptable then it's down to Trading Standards for me.Stephen Fellowes,by email&#183;Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
Upgrade overdue?I last bought a PC five years ago. Do I need a new one?Mike CollisJS:The short answer is that if it still does what you want, no, you don't need a new one. But there are other considerations, such as the need to keep your PC working in the modern world, and what will happen to your data when it fails.If you buy a PC to do some specific tasks, then by rights it should continue to perform those tasks until the hardware breaks down. However, this assumes that the software won't be upgraded, and that you won't want to do new things. For example, a PC that happily ran Internet Explorer 3 will not perform as well with IE7 or Firefox 3. Also, it may not work as well, if at all, with websites that use web 2.0 programming techniques.Even then, you may not have to buy a new PC. If yours runs Windows XP SP2, then it would probably be OK with a cheap memory uprade. If it needs a memory upgrade, a new graphics card, a bigger hard drive and so on, you're better off buying a new (or second-hand) one.Another important question is this: if you had to buy a new PC tomorrow (following a catastrophic hardware failure), would you be able to move your data to a new one? Are current PCs capable of running your old software? If not, are current packages capable of importing your old data? There are probably still people happily using BBC Micros with 5.25in floppies and Amstrads with 3in drives, but when they do have to upgrade, the conversion might be a bit tricky. And people get a new appreciation for how valuable their data is when they can no longer access it.As a rule of thumb, it's usually OK to skip one system upgrade, but it can be increasingly dangerous to skip two, three or more. You don't have to be at the leading edge of technology, but watch out that you don't fall off the trailing edge.Time to tidy up?To complete a New Year resolution, I am trying to tidy up the two computers my wife and I use. For example, looking for things we do not want, I found I386 with various folders. There must be more unnecessary items and I wonder if there is a way of finding out what they are, other than by deleting one and making the computer malfunction.Nigel WardJS:Are you also planning to tidy up your car by removing parts of the engine that don't seem to do anything? Or will you, instead, tidy up maps, books, shoes, boxes of tissues etc that have been left behind by users, rather than installed by the vehicle's manufacturer and supplier? There's always a good case for tidying up "user space" by deleting your unwanted files and by splitting vast document dumps into logical subdirectories. But it's a bad idea to mess around with system files if you don't know what they do. It's safer to keep these files hidden - hidden files are always, in effect, tidy - or ignore them.If you actually want to clear some space, run CCleaner (ccleaner.com). This will remove temporary files, unwanted log files and so on. If more dramatic action is required, use the Control Panel's Add or Remove Programs to uninstall applications that you rarely or never use. Running a program such as VisDir 1.4 (sb-software.com/visdir) or WinDirStat (windirstat.info) will show you the biggest directories, which is where you can save the most space. Typically, these will be video and audio files, and directories full of photographs.Self spammingToday I received a spam message that said it came from my account and so sailed through my filters. Is it possible that my PC is infected in any way and is sending these out?Peter BeavenJS:It's unlikely. The mail headers you attached show the message originated in Gomel, Belarus, so it definitely didn't come from your PC. It's probably a case of spamming software being used to forge the From: address to make it the same as the To: address (ie yours), instead of using the address of some innocent bystander.However, if you are unlucky, then you are that innocent bystander, and millions of spams have been sent out with your forged address. You could therefore get thousands of "bounces" and undelivered returns from ISPs who know for a fact that you didn't send it.Anyone can find out where an email probably originated by pasting the headers intotinyurl.com/qp6a4Backdating emailsCan emails be backdated? I recently had a situation come up that makes me question the validity of a certain email I was sent.PaulJS:Previously I'd have said not, because if mail is sent via an ISP or a web-based mail service, the date and time will usually be correct. However, if you are running a mail server, then you probably can backdate an email, perhaps by setting your PC's clock to an earlier date. Even then, an email will be forwarded by a number of other machines on its way to its destination, and these will add their own date and time.I believe it is possible to insert fake Received: lines to try to hide when and where a message originated, but the real entries can't be faked, because they are not under the sender's control. If an email seems to have been backdated, check the "Received:" entries to see if it had a spurious start date or was delayed somewhere en route.Housecall's depositsI ran Trend Micro's free scan, as you advised. I now have a folder called .housecall6.6 with various files in it, but there is no reference to it in Windows' Add or Remove Programs.David AustenJS:Trend Micro's Housecall is an online malware scanner: it's run from the web (housecall.trendmicro.com) using a kernel loaded into your browser. However, it downloads virus recognition patterns to your PC for speed and convenience. You can easily have 100MB of these signatures.You can delete the folder if you don't want it hanging around. Of course, this will delete Housecall's logs, and if you decide to use the service again, there will be a delay while it downloads another set of signatures.Word blockageSuddenly when I try to open some of my older Word documents, it says: "You are trying to open a file that was created in an earlier version of Microsoft Office. This file type is blocked from opening in this version by your registry policy settings." Charming!Mark OttawayJS:From what you've told me, I think this is probably the result of a security update, KB934181, which is intended to block infected Word files. It's certainly a known problem, and it is dealt with on the Microsoft Knowledge Base attinyurl.com/24yko7. There's also a link page (KB922850) for people who get the same error message about Excel or PowerPoint files.Backchat&#183;Daniel Whelan wanted to reduce the number of programs starting up in Windows. On the Ask Jack blog, Sturgess suggests WinPatrol (winpatrol.com). This also works as a security monitor and "will alert you to hijackings, malware attacks and critical changes made to your computer without your permission".&#183;Tony Jones wanted a less bloated media player, and different readers had different suggestions. S Howard mentioned Miro, which isn't exactly small (a 23.3MB download) but plays a lot of formats and includes "seamless BitTorrent".&#183;Richard Bell wanted advice on how to best handle large software updates when he only has a dialup connection. Neil Harcourt suggests using a USB memory stick and a public library computer. "These tend to be free-to-very cheap, and this has worked for me quite a few times."&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor, atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Churches + Tetris = coolPerhaps you hadn't noticed that church pews, viewed from up by the organ, let you play a game of human Tetris - but Guillaume Reymond has. At last, a reason to go to church. Good soundtrack too.This call's for you...All that's missing from this amusing - Swedish? - ad is Chris Tarrant winking at you before and after it. Try to guess which mobile technology it's advertising before the final scene.This gun shoots around cornersThe US police sometimes want to shoot people who can't shoot back. Unlikely to come into widespread use.Found some technology videos to share? Put the links below!
A businessman threatened with prison if he continues to use Crown copyright maps without a licence said this week he will fight on to establish a key principle in the free data debate.Nick Brown, chief executive of Green Amps, a supplier of medium-sized wind turbines, is embroiled in a court battle with Her Majesty's Stationery Office (HMSO) and Ordnance Survey (OS) over what he says is his right to use government-produced geographical data for the public good.In November, the government bodies won a High Court order requiring Brown to stop infringing copyright and to hand over or delete the OS's data. Whatever the rights and wrongs, the case provides a glimpse of things to come in the debate over charges for public-sector information.Brown says that OS maps are an indispensable component of planning applications for wind turbines. He admits obtaining sets of mapping data "from academic sources" and using them to develop a software tool for streamlining planning applications, initially just for his company's use. "Early on, though, we decided this was too important to stay in-house." He says that the government, in the shape of the DTI, asked him to make the software available to "all and sundry".In 2006, Brown says he tried to negotiate a non-commercial licence for the data. OS said that, as a business, Green Amps should pay a commercial licence fee, of &pound;16,000. Last year OS and HMSO, the formal holder of copyright, took action in the High Court. Brown says the court action was out of proportion to the size of loss faced by OS; for its part, OS says it has a duty to safeguard the public purse, and that it went to "a great deal of effort to offer [Brown] a licensing solution that would work for him," including its developer program for startups.The Free Our Data campaign cannot, of course, condone copyright theft. Our solution is to make non-personal government data available for re-use for free, without restriction; that would encourage the growth of companies like Green Amps, generating taxes to pay for tax-funded data collection and dissemination.Green Amps' case raises a key policy issue: the question of whether the practice of managing government information through trading funds such as Ordnance Survey is compatible with European regulations which require that essential public information be made freely available.Brown's appeal is based on the claim that maps are an essential component of planning applications. Last month, he published a survey of planning officers concluding that, while in theory maps could come from anywhere, in practice local authorities look askance at applications unsupported by OS data. "It appears that no viable alternative to OS exists on the market," he notes.On that basis, he says, charges for the use of such essential data are a breach of human rights, as well as against the spirit of the EU Inspire directive, passed last year to enable the free exchange of data for the purposes of environmental protection.We await the appeal with interest. In the meantime, Brown says he has placed his copies of data in escrow, pending the appeal. Hopes for making his planning software available are "dead", he says.Join the debate at the Free Our Data blogwww.freeourdata.org.uk/blog/
Perhaps, if a new industry initiative takes hold. The "loudness war" is a notorious practice of the recording industry, in which quiet sounds are raised to nearly the same level as loud sounds in order to achieve a uniformly high volume throughout a CD or digital download. The result is fatiguing for the listener and removes the wide dynamic range - a key benefit of digital audio.The problem is that few dare to make a quiet-sounding recording. "Many mastering engineers perpetuate the loudness wars," explains producer Tony Visconti, who has worked with artists including Paul McCartney, David Bowie and Morrissey. "One once turned to me after I made a request for more dynamics and said, 'I have a reputation to uphold, I can't make it that quiet.' Really, I was just asking for the carefully mixed quiet intro to stay quiet until the rest of the band crashed in."Florida-based recording engineer Charles Dye, whose mixing and recording credits include Bon Jovi, Jennifer Lopez and Shakira, hopes to bring about change with a new initiative called Turn Me Up (turnmeup.org), co-founded with musician John Ralston and studio owner Allen Wagner. The aim is to address the anxiety felt over recordings which are quieter than their competitors. "It all comes down to the moment a consumer hears a record, and the fear that if the record is more dynamic, the consumer won't know to just turn up the volume," says the Turn Me Up site. The proposed solution is a certification process for dynamic recordings along with a logo for qualifying recordings: "This record is intentionally quieter than some. For full enjoyment simply Turn Me Up!" says the accompanying text.Dye says it was an earlier Guardian article about the problem (How CDs are remastering the art of noise, Guardian Technology, January 18 2007, tinyurl.com/2opok4) which "kinda got the ball rolling. Once the mainstream press started to publicise the ever-decreasing dynamic range of modern records, I knew the time was right to try to give artists back the choice to release more dynamic records."Audiophile mastering engineer Steve Hoffman agrees. "I hope a website like Turn Me Up will make recording artists, producers, engineers and record executives take note of the growing dissatisfaction with the modern trend of brickwalling music. We in the industry have to take a stand against this music-choking loudness war practice."It will not be easy. Despite widespread publicity, there is little sign of a reversal in the trend towards loud, highly compressed mastering. Sir Paul McCartney's 2007 release Memory Almost Full was a prime example. Another snag is that CD sales are in free fall, and those downloading their music will not even see a logo. Turn Me Up will need to attract a great deal more cross-industry support before it can hope to make an impact.
Donkey Kong: Jungle ClimberDS, &pound;24.99, cert 3+ Nintendo, 4/5You'd win no prizes for guessing that this offers a healthy dose of good old-fashioned platform-style gameplay - after all, it's a Donkey Kong game. Jungle Climber is surprisingly original, though. As the name suggests, DK's trademark barrels take a back seat in favour of climbing, achieved by grabbing on to various objects, cunningly studded with pegs. Hit the DS's right flipper and DK will grab with his right hand and revolve clockwise, while grabbing with both hands keeps him stationary. He can also chuck Diddy Kong miles in the air as a form of attack, and various twists (like ghosts that can't harm you if you're static), plus the obligatory boss-battles keep proceedings fresh - an impressive achievement given that Jungle Climber barely acknowledges the DS's touchscreen. Classic DS fare.Steve BoxerScene It? Lights, Camera, ActionXbox 360 &pound;39.99, cert 12+ Microsoft, 3/5Scene It? is Microsoft's attempt to broaden the appeal of the Xbox 360, at present the hardcore gamer console of choice. This is a family quiz game, with simple controllers and no skill - other than a knowledge of films - required. Owners of the Buzz Playstation games will find this all very familiar. The action is typical quiz show, with a variety of different rounds and numerous points to play for. The fact that most clips are in high definition is one of the few nods to the 360's core audience. And while memory tests and so on mean you don't need to be a film buff to compete, you'll need to know more about the subject than you do with, say, the Buzz games. Some 1,800 questions are included, with relatively few repeats to spoil the illusion. The presenter and backstory are unnecessarily intrusive, though, and you'll need at least two people to make it worthwhile. But as party games go, this is the best there is on the 360.Greg HowsonSam &amp; Max: Moai Better BluesPC, $8.95 (&pound;4.50) Telltale/Download (telltalegames.com), 3/5Telltale has done a sterling job turning the venerable LucasArts franchise into a monthly interactive cartoon. The format still involves lots of puzzle-solving with simple mini-games thrown in, so expect an awful lot of point-and-clicking and dispense with all known logic at the gate. As a casual game it knows its limitations, but it's never been the gameplay keeping this franchise alive. With excellent script and voice acting, Sam &amp; Max remain pretty much the best-developed characters in gaming, and watching them swap banter almost makes up for the linear action. If only these bite-sized episodes could add a bit more depth and variety to the arcade sequences, the series would deserve to  run and run.Mike Anderiesz
Here's a great twist on the web sharecropping model (where you put the distribution of production into the hands of the many and the concentration of the economic rewards into the hands of the few): get people to contribute real, valuable information to your business, and then pay them with fake money.That's what Amazon's been doing with its Q&amp;A site, Askville (askville.amazon.com). When you successfully answer people's questions on the site, Amazon rewards you with "Quest Gold," a virtual currency that you'll be able to use later this year in Amazon's new online role-playing game, Questville.Anyone who has ever played massively multiplayer online roleplaying games such as World of Warcraft will know about virtual gold and levels; they're what keep you coming back. In WoW, killing monsters and doing tasks that are simultaneously fantastic, fantastical and fantasy makes you more powerful; in Questville, it will be providing helpful real-world information that will mark you up.And if Questville is sufficiently successful, it could prompt other internet companies to add MMO-style features to their own systems. It's like buying Manhattan with beads. Call it the Trinket Economy.But this leaves me in a bit of a quandary. In July 2006, I entered into a quasi-wager with Yochai Benkler, a Harvard Law School professor and author of the book The Wealth of Networks about the ultimate economic structure of the most popular social media sites (tinyurl.com/3bfrrg).I predicted that the dominant sites would pay for their content - that they'd be, in Benkler's terms, "price-incentivised systems". Benkler, by contrast, predicted the sites would be pure "peer-production processes" existing outside "the price system". He was sure that by changing "the way we create and exchange information, knowledge, and culture ... we can make the 21st century one that offers individuals greater autonomy, political communities greater democracy and societies greater opportunities for cultural self-reflection and human connection".In other words, the money-changers and their managerial goon squads will be thrown out of the temple, and the people will share their creative gifts freely over a dense network of fibre optic cables, a new and serpentless Tree of Knowledge hung with tasty digital fruit.I, on the other hand, tended towards the less revolutionary outlook. For example, the invention of the radio - the original "wireless" technology - spurred the creation of a vast network of amateur broadcasters, but that non-professional network was soon displaced by a smaller set of commercial radio stations, better able to fulfil the desires of the listening public. To support his thesis, Benkler pointed - this was mid-2006 - to (among others) Wikipedia and open-source software. As I have described with tedious regularity on my blog, Wikipedia has, in fact, been steadily wrapping itself in an ever more hierarchical management structure as it attempts to improve quality. I think that Benkler's belief that large-scale efforts to create cultural goods will succeed without management structure is dubious, at best.But what happens to our wager if people get paid with virtual gold? Is that price-incentivised or not? I would argue that it is. If you're working for gold, whether real or fake, you're putting a price on your labour. I mean, if you take beads in trade for something of value, then the beads are money, right? And there are "real" exchange rates for WoW gold via eBay: you can buy goods made in virtual worlds with money earned in the real world. But of course I'm biased, being a participant in the wager. Maybe Benkler would argue that fake gold is more like a token of esteem or a gift of the heart than like a wage.Anyway, we probably need to decide. Benkler originally suggested August 1 of this year to decide who's won - though I think that August 2011 offers a more realistic timeframe. One way or another, we need to figure it out.One thing's for sure, though: if you can pay your workers with virtual money, you've got a helluva labour strategy.Nicholas Carr's latest book is The Big Switch. He blogs atroughtype.com
Organic Sony screenSony has started selling a stunning 3mm thick Oled TV with a million-to-one contrast ratio. The 11in version costs $2,499 (&pound;1,265). At this week's Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, Sony also showed a 27in prototype: no price.tinyurl.com/yrx7yvPanasonic, titanicPanasonic unveiled a plasma HDTV set featuring a 150in screen. It's the size of nine 50in models, and "well suited for various commercial and cinema installations".panasonic.com/cesshowLittle big cardPanasonic also showed a 32GB SD (Secure Digital) memory card that could be used in a camera to record about eight hours of HD (1440...1080i) video.panasonic.com/cesshowIntel's next generationIntel introduced 16 new processors with new video capabilities. These include 45nm Penryn chips for use in laptops.tinyurl.com/yutgbcSanDisk flashes 72GBSanDisk unveiled a new 72GB SSD (solid state disk) drive. It can be used instead of a 1.8in SATA drive in a notebook PC.driveyourlaptop.comTaser/music playerTaser International unveiled the Taser MPH (Music Player Holster), which combines a 1GB MP3 player and a Taser holster. It "allows for both personal protection and personal music for people on the go," says the company.tinyurl.com/2qokdeBT gets XboxMicrosoft confirmed that BT will be the first to sell the MediaRoom version of the Xbox 360 games console, which can receive IPTV - television over the internet.btvision.bt.com
Yesterday we introduced the gamesblog'stwo-part Gamer's Guide to the US Presidential racewith an overview of the actions and intentions of the Democratic nomination front-runners. Today, we round out the coverage with a quick run-down on the Republican candidates.Read on for the skinny.Mitt RomneyMitt Romney has made computer games part of the thrust of his campaign, with references to the media genre in an ad campaign. In thepromotional slot, he implicates them in "oceans of filth" in which America's youth are swimming. You can only imagine what he'll do if he gets into the White House.According to aCommon Sense Media survey, which posted questions about interactive and other entertainment to the leading candidates, he intends to, "get serious against those retailers that sell adult video games that are filled with violence and that we go after those retailers," and "to restore values so children are protected from a societal cesspool of filth, pornography, violence, sex and perversion." Surprisingly similar to his Democratic opposite, Hillary Clinton.John McCainSecond-time Presidential runner McCain has a team that thinks seriously about technology. In response to aCNet survey, "McCain" (aka his policy-writers) tackles net neutrality, government subsidies for high-speed internet access, internet data privacy and copyright issues. Unfortunately, there was only an oblique reference to games.GamePolitics suggeststhat the anti-game slant of Independent candidate Joseph Liebermann may help his friend McCain, whose inability to connect with the Religious Right in the US could be bolstered by their association.McCain didn't respond to the CSM report, and so his intentions remain a mystery, for now.Mike HuckabeeThe evangelical Iowa caucus winner has been completely silent on the subject of computer games, although, like McCain, he "expressed interest" in participating in the CSM survey.At the moment, games aren't an important policy issue, but I predict political eyeballs will turn towards interactive entertainment when controversy temperatures rise in the summer months. If the potential candidates are silent now, they'll have to take a stand one way or the other. My guess is that all will play conservative, and with varying severity, call for federal government regulation of games in the US.Meanwhile, in this country, we are anxiously awaiting the release of theByron Reportlater this year, which should establish a useful baseline about the effects of violent videogaming on consumers.Not sated by this roundup? Catch the dirt on the Democratic candidates inyesterday's post, or go toGamepoliticsfor coverage. They have a special category,Game Decision 2008.
As the big event draws to a close, most of the key tech sites have been churning out CES summaries.CNNchooses to focus on a new range of gadgets seeking to cash in on the physical interfacing popularised by Wii - a company named 3DV Systems showed off a PC controllable via hand gestures, while JVC had a TV set that responds to claps and finger clicks.The piece also mentions a couple of Japanese mobile phones due out this year which feature Wiimote-style motion control. The technology, developed by Californian company,GestureTek, means that you can use the phone as a tennis racket, pool cue or any other waftable piece of equipment as you play. It's been available for quite some time but the success of Nintendo's machine has perhaps encouraged more phone manufacturers to stuff it in their latest models. (More infohere.)Computerworld.comcovers a much more ambitious technology from a company namedEmotiv...It's a neural input device based in a wireless headset, which allows PC users to control onscreen avatars via brain's electronic signals, including emotions and cognitions. The article considers what a boon the device will be in virtual worlds like Second Life where emotional interaction is somewhat hampered by the need to control facial expressions via the keyboard. The technology is still at the alpha stage, but may eventually sell for two- to three hundred dollars.TheChicago Sun Timesis one of many sources to pick up on a fun item fromJada Toys. The company has licensed the Guitar Hero name and applied it to a sort of air guitar simulator, featuring a magnetic guitar pick and a belt buckle with a mini-amp. According to the newspaper:The player chooses one of 10 included riffs -- from songs like "Smoke on the Water" and "More than a Feeling" -- the toy captures the rhythm of the player moving the pick past magnetic coils in the buckle, without ever actually touching it, and broadcasts the riff.The Guitar Hero Air Rocker is set to retail for $30.CNET'sBest of CESarticle includes two winners of real interest to us (me). Peripherals manufacturerNykowins in the Games category with itswireless nunchuck controller, which should bring more convenience and, let's face it, safety to those enthusiastic Wii Sports sessions.I also like the look of BUG a technology platform fromBug Labs, which provides a range of modules each providing a different function like GPS, digital camera, keyboard, movement sensor or video output, plus a BUGbase - essentially a teeny Linux PC. These can then be snapped together in any combo the user likes to create a personalised, programmable handheld gadget. I've emailed them to ask about potential gaming applications - we'll see what they say.
After the chaos of the last three months the gaming release schedule has - thankfully - slowed down. The post-Christmas lull is welcome if, like me, you've been struggling to keep up with the stack of good stuff that has come out since Bioshock arrived in August. But while this break is a perfect chance to catch up on what you missed or haven't had the time to properly play - Call of Duty 4 online for me - it makes finding new stuff to review much harder. Sothis week's reviewscover the lower key likes of Donkey Kong Jungle Climber, Scene It? and Sam &amp; Max: Moai Better Blues. And you know what? None of them are in anyway essential, but all have their merits. Donkey Kong is more than generic platforming while Sam &amp; Max is a reminder that point and click adventures can still captivate. And then there is Scene It?, Microsoft's attempt todo a Buzz!for the 360. It isn't entirely successful - it lacks the charm and accessibility of Buzz! - but at least offers Wii/PS2-less 360 owners something to play at a party. Burnout Paradise and the new Nights Wii game arrive in the next couple of weeks and herald the start of 2008's gaming flood. But for now enjoy the relative gaming calm.
It's surely the greatest cross-media coup since Kareem Abdul-Jabbar's appearance in Airplane. Namco announced during CES yesterday that Yoda and Darth Vader will take guest roles in the latest Soul Calibur sequel. However, Yoda will be exclusive to the Xbox 360 version of the game, while Darth resides in the PS3 edition. You can draw your own lightside/darkside conclusions.This rather blurry video (eventually) shows the two Star Wars combatants in action against the game's own stars. Lip-smacking stuff, although surely they've missed a trick here: imagine Ivy vs the bikini-clad Leia from Return of the Jedi...Erm, stop imagining it now.
Every January, Steve Jobs stands on the Macworld stage to announce Apple's plans for the year ahead and show off new products and services. What will there be this year? And how has Apple done lately, and how will it fare? And when - if ever - will Jobs step down?We asked former Apple employees, software developers, analysts and expert observers for their views. The shortened version is in the print edition of the paper, but these are the full-length questions originally posed, and answers (some of which had to be shortened, or left out, in print).We did ask a number of current Apple employees to take part anonymously; however, all declined.The questions we asked:What do you think Apple will announce at Macworld in (a) hardware (b) software (c) services?What do you think Apple *won't* announce (but others think it will) at Macworld?What has been the smartest thing Apple has done in the past year, and why?What has been the dumbest thing Apple has done in the past year, and why?Who do you think will be Apple's most dangerous competitors in the coming two years, and why?What would be the best acquisition Apple could make in the next year, and why?Think forward two years, to Apple, January 2010. What do you think will be the biggest difference from Apple right now?How important is the Mac computer line to Apple's future, as the iPod and iPhone generate more of its revenues and profits?When do you think the next version of Mac OSX will debut?When do you think Steve Jobs will cease to be chief executive at Apple? Any reason why? (Month/year)Strengths/weaknesses/opportunities/threats is a classic way to analyse a company's position. What are Apple's?Now, the panel:Chuq Von Rospachspent 17 years at Apple working on Enterprise and IT projects, and left in 2006. He is now doing web programming for a Silicon Valley startup and "can now watch a Macworld Keynote without stressing out that everything works".David Sobottaworked at Apple for nearly 20 years, leaving in 2004 as director of federal sales.Mike Evangelisthas been in the Macintosh business since 1987. In 2000, the German company he was working for (Astarte GmbH) was sold to Apple Computer. From April 2000 to July 2002 he was a director of product marketing at Apple, responsible for Final Cut Pro, DVD Studio Pro, iDVD and a few others. He is now president of Wired Inc, a company making professional video products for Macintosh, and consults for Elgato Systems, creators of EyeTV. He is trying to write a book about his time at Apple called 'Jobs I've Known', but 'paying the rent' keeps getting in the way.Daniel Jalkutwas senior software engineer at Apple, which he left in 2002 after working on OS9 through to OSX 10.2. He now runs Red Sweater Software.Michael Gartenbergis consumer electronics analyst for Jupiter Research.Adam Engstis the editor of the influential TidBits site, and has repeatedly been named one of the most influential people in the Apple ecosystem.Wil Shipleyis Chief Monster and founder of Delicious Monster Software, which makes Delicious Library, an Apple Design Award-winning (thrice!) application for cataloguing your books, CDs, DVDs and video games. He also founded The Omni Group back in 1993, which won Apple Design Awards for OmniWeb, and OmniGraffle before leaving in 2004. So far all Delicious Monster's staff, except himself, have subsequently been hired by Apple.Gus Muelleris the founder ofFlying Meat, an independent software company in the Pacific northwest that develops exclusively for OSX.John Gruberwrites Daring Fireball, one of the most widely read Apple-following sites.What do you think Apple will announce at Macworld in (a) hardware (b) software (c) services?Chuq von Rospach:Leopard 10.5.2 (I hope), with the next round of bug fixes. We're due for laptop refreshes. The really tiny super-portable seems likely, but probably with some kind of "steve" twist. It won't just be a "road warrior" box, it'll be something more than that.I'm intrigued by the recent link for dockable portable in the iMac-like system. It may be premature, but it seems to me the combination of a really light-weight box with a docking environment would be wonderful - hearken back to the days of the Duo and the Dock. It would also remove some of the push by some folks for an updated Mini. I continue to think the Mini is done - but I expect to see a refresh of the Apple TV that both adds significant functionality and moves it into the space the Mini used to own.There are rumours that Apple will support it and ship readers for Blu-ray. If they do, that's the death of HD-DVD, and finally this format war will be effectively over. And if anyone can market it to consumers as to why they should care, Apple can.Biggest news will be in the iTunes area, with rentals. About time ... Extra bonus points for it to also be a front end for NetFlix, but I'm not holding out too much hope (but it'd honestly make sense for both sides to do that, and the timing of Netflix's announcements in this space make me wonder if there's more to their story than just the Set top box ... we'll see.)I keep thinking there's one new piece of software coming out nobody knows about yet. iTunes/rentals and new MacBooks and the ultra-portable is a pretty good keynote, but I wonder what the "one more thing" is this year ... I wonder if you'll see Apple-branded solutions that tie into Time Machine - RAID disks? SAN? Network server? How about an Airport update to go with 10.5.2 to restore backups to an airport disc?David Sobotta:I think we will see a laptop update from Apple. I believe it will be in the MacBook line. I also suspect it will be Apple's first laptop without a hard drive. I do not think it will be an ultra portable. I doubt that is a large enough market segment for Apple.Mike Evangelist:It's definitely time for new laptops. A sub-notebook or dramatically slimmer full-size notebook seems most likely to me. A new Apple TV, probably in conjunction with a much improved movie download (and/or rental) system for iTunes. A network storage system designed for home users - to make it easier to store all the music and video that Apple hopes to sell us, and also enable Time Machine backups for everyone in the house. 16GB iPhone. An update to Leopard to smooth out some of its many rough edges.Daniel Jalkut:I don't like to speculate too much, since I'm always wrong! I pretty much follow the rumours and my ears perk up when I hear something that sounds interesting. What I'm hoping for is some flavour of the much-rumoured subcompact notebook, a stunning new downloadable video rental service, and possibly some hints about the forthcoming iPhone/Touch software developer kit.Michael Gartenberg:If history is a guide, whatever it is people think Apple will introduce will be wrong. Because the important things are all in the details: even when folks are right, they're still wrong.Adam Engst:In terms of hardware, I do think we'll see some sort of new portable Mac, or possibly a tablet that has more in common with an iPhone than a Mac (in other words - a targeted-purpose device that can be extended but doesn't rely on a desktop metaphor). I'd love to see something along those lines that could serve as a better video-viewing device and as a lightweight e-book reader. We might also see a new Xserve; that box hasn't been updated in a long time. [It was updated the day after Engst replied - Ed.] Another likely possibility is the second-generation iPhone, with 3G networking, an improved camera, and videoconferencing. And lastly, I wouldn't be surprised to see a second-generation Apple TV with some new functionality. In terms of services, it's entirely possible there will be a change to the iTunes Store that enables rentals. Personally, I think that's fairly boring; more interesting would be a subscription service for music, but Apple has resisted that for a long time, and I see no reason they'd change now.Wil Shipley:Of the rumours I've heard, I'm most excited by the prospect of a possible Apple tablet, just because it sounds like it'd be so cool, but I'm not sure there's a market for such a thing beyond ber-nerds like me.Gus Mueller:It's really, really hard to predict what Apple will do. I'm sure I'll look like a fool for even trying. Hardware: something with a touch screen. Smaller than a laptop but bigger than an iPhone, running some whacked out, stripped down version of OSX. Probably using new low-power processors from Intel. "iPad". They've got the tech, it would make a splash - and they are probably willing to experiment again on something (like the Apple TV).Software: Not too much - maybe an update to Aperture. I could see a general announcement about taking the OS in a general "lean and mean" direction now that it's finding its way on smaller devices. Plus, they are so ahead of Microsoft at this point; it would be cool to step back and clean things up.Services: A free version of .Mac - ".Mac Lite" or something along those lines.John Gruber:Rumours are running strong that they're set to introduce a dramatically thin sub-notebook. I certainly hope they do; it's been a glaring omission from their line-up ever since they dropped the 12-inch PowerBook G4. Judging from press reports, movie rentals from the iTunes Store seem like a foregone conclusion. Again, in terms of pent-up demand, this strikes me as obvious, too. Most movies aren't worth watching more than once, and everyone knows it. That's why rentals have been so popular for VHS and DVD.What do you think Apple *won't* announce (but others think it will) at Macworld?CVR:any hardware between the pro tower and the laptop. The day of the desktop is dying, Apple won't keep pushing hardware into that space, instead, you're more likely to see them introduce something (like the duo/dock) to make desktops even less interesting. I don't think we'll see iLife or iWork changes.ME:3G iPhone. Although Apple has been known to disregard the feelings of early adopters, I think it would be a big mistake to introduce any significant upgrades to the iPhone so soon after its introduction in Europe. (unless there was an appealing trade-up offer).AE:I doubt we'll see any significant software, given the recent updates to Mac OS X, iLife, and iWork. I pay relatively little attention to rumor sites, so I don't really know what others have speculated about.WS:I guess I'd be surprised if they actually *did* announce a tablet, because the worldwide market for Windows tablets have been confined to Microsoft marketing people. (True story: I once spotted at Microsoft spy at WWDC because she was using a Windows tablet - I had her ejected.)GM:I think a "Media Rental Service" is out of the question, along with an entry level iPhone. Most of the predictions I've seen are pretty obvious - faster machines for instance. Duh.What has been the smartest thing Apple has done in the past year, and why?CVR:The iPhone. Great piece of hardware, awesome introduction and marketing.DS:Lowering the price of the iPhone. It needed to be done.ME:Negotiating revenue sharing from the cell companies for each iPhone contract. Ongoing revenue from their products is something that has largely eluded Apple in the past. It's brilliant.DJ:I think the way Apple has been firing on all cylinders with the Mac, the iPhone, and the iPod is all representative of a very smart strategy. They're expanding on the "halo effect" which was first speculated about, and has since apparently been confirmed. Anecdotally, I am noticing more and more people who were previously unfamiliar with Apple products, gradually adding their computers and other devices to their lives.MG:No one thing, that's what's important. It was a combination of strong products, strong marketing message, strong retail experience that made things work for Apple in 07. A combination of factors and a strong attention to small details.AE:Announcing that it would release a true SDK for iPhone development. The iPhone is interesting not just for the way it changes the cellphone world, but also because of the way it shows OS X running on a wildly popular consumer electronics device (the Apple TV also runs OS X, but hasn't done much).WS:Announcing the iPhone SDK - reversing their closed position. The third-party applications and games for the iPhone are going to make it the most ubiquitous device in the universe.GM:The iPhone, no question about it. It's an amazing device, it really changes things. At least it did for me - I no longer hate waiting in lines! I'll just surf or catch up on email.JG:Introducing the iPhone as just two models, 4 and 8 GB, and then quickly dropping the less popular 4 GB one. It was an enormous product launch, promotionally, but for just one model of one device, when it comes down to it. And that paid off for them.What has been the dumbest thing Apple has done in the past year, and why?CVR:Underestimating developer interest in the iPhone, and mishandling that demand. I think they took a while to get the message straight here and ruffled a bunch of feathers. Also pushing the first iPhone update too quickly and not doing enough QA. Overall, though, quality's been pretty good on all of the products.DS:Bricking the iPhone, because it brought such high profile negative press.ME:Negotiating revenue sharing from the cell companies for each iPhone contract. These contracts put Apple in the nasty position of limiting what customers can do with their own phones, in order to protect the revenue. Trying to keep an iron grip on the iPhone's functionality and software is very customer-hostile; and I believe this will continue with the introduction of the SDK. I expect there will be roadblocks to creating some of the applications that people want the most (iChat, VOIP, Bluetooth data link to a laptop, to name a few).DJ:No comment.MG:Apple misjudged who was buying the iPhone early on and didn't seem to notice that part of the buyers were very non-traditional early adopters who were not used to seeing prices fall. To their credit, Apple reacted quickly to the issue.AE:Bricking iPhones was pretty darn stupid, and Apple's initial negativity about opening the iPhone to development wasn't a good thing. I was also unimpressed with the Apple TV; Apple could have made it into a truly interesting device with more TiVo-like capabilities.WS:Trying to sell AJAX as the original iPhone SDK. If we wanted to program web apps we'd do it for Windows computers, duh.GM:From a developer standpoint - the "Sweet iPhone SDK" that was announced at WWDC. This is the "just write web apps for Safari/iPhone" debacle. Trying to pull that one on a room full of the smartest folks in the mac developer ecosystem, that was an insane idea. It really lowered the perceived savvy of Apple from a developer perspective. Every developer knows it takes time to make a stable SDK - so just say so. We'll wait, but don't throw web apps at us.JG:Waiting so long to announce that Leopard would be delayed from June to October. They knew it, internally, at least as far back as a year ago, and if they'd announced it sooner, it would have gone over better. (Pretty hard to come up with something "dumb" they did this year, though.)Who do you think will be Apple's most dangerous competitors in the coming two years, and why?CVR:Amazon: because the music labels are still looking for someone they can back to reduce their dependence on Apple in the music world, and the video side doesn't want to hand Apple the keys the way the music people did (a big reason why video growth has been slower than some expected) - and Amazon has the operation to actually take Apple on in both spaces and make things interesting. I'm not sure anyone else does.I don't see anyone taking on Apple in computers - it's still the slow shift of people moving from Windows. Ditto iPod, because of the integration and ease of use. But iPhone is still vulnerable, if someone can figure out what the next iPhone is going to do and get out there around the same time with something close. (I'd love to see Apple move into less expensive phones, too, but we'll see).I think at some point Apple's going to make a play for unlocked phones and open networks and try to push the US to the European model of the market - that'll make it the enemy of the cell companies, who want walled gardens. This might be an interesting place for Apple and Google to work together, or perhaps Google will go up against Apple. Watching the upcoming spectrum auction with great interest here.DS:Apple, while not competition to itself, is always its own worst enemy.DJ:I think Apple is in pretty good shape for the computer, cell phone, and music player markets. Where I think Apple will face the stiffest competition is in the iTunes department, where so much of their success hinges on cooperation from major media companies. It looks like Apple is sort of dropping the ball as far as keeping their partners happy is concerned. I'm not suggesting that the partners were entitled to everything they were asking for, but as companies like Amazon and Netflix move into the same digital sales areas as Apple, I think they will be a formidable threat because they seem to be establishing better relationships with media companies.MG:It seems everyone is gunning for Apple to some degree or another. Those it needs to fear the least are those consortiums that are being created out of common dislike of Apple. The enemy of my enemy is my friend is not a business strategy.AE:If I were Apple, I'd worry most about Google, because as much as the two companies often work together in small ways and Eric Schmidt is on Apple's board, I think they're destined to collide. Google wants to make itself ubiquitous, and projects like Android (the cell phone platform) show that at some point Google will want more control over the devices used to access Google services. And although the two companies seem alike in some ways, at their hearts, I think they're quite different - Google uses the shotgun approach, trying numerous services to see what works (even when they aren't very good to start), whereas Apple very carefully prepares a small number of products that offer best-of-class user experience.WS:Apple's biggest weakness will be within - trying to manage their growth and while still keeping a maverick spirit, and still making sure that each thing they create is a work of art.GM:This is going to sound silly to some folks - but I think it's Microsoft. I look forward to the day they pull their head out of their ass, cut out a bunch of fat, and ship a real OS. Maybe two years is too short a time frame for that - but who knows what they have in some sort of skunkworks project. They need to break things like Apple did with the OS9 to OS X switch. And I really hope they do because Apple could use some real competition in that arena.JG:I have to say I'm coming up with a blank on this one.What would be the best acquisition Apple could make in the next year, and why?CVR:The more likely one is Apple buying Adobe. It would give Apple more control over some core applications that help drive the Macintosh platform in key market segments (Photoshop!), plus bring in some interesting new technologies. I'm actually surprised in a way this hasn't happened already. I've always felt there was a good match, and that Apple needed better control over Photoshop and how it's managed on the Mac platform. Either that, or build a replacement.But here's the deal I'd like to see. There's been rumbling on the blogosphere about how Microsoft ought to buy Yahoo. Imagine, instead, if Apple bought Yahoo. A really wild option might be to do something like buy Nintendo. Or Sony.ME:TiVo, without a doubt. Combined with what they have already begun with iTunes and Apple TV, Apple could completely dominate the television experience ... from providing content to making it accessible in the ways people really want. Also Harmony (remote controls) - Although Harmony has generally come closest to making a programmable remote control that's actually useful, Apple could take it all the way. And the technology would make it easier to integrate things like Apple TVs into existing systems.DJ:I have been saying for years that Apple should acquire Adobe. Most of my friends laugh and think it sounds ridiculous, but I think it would be a perfect combination. One of the things Microsoft has held Apple on a short leash with over the years has been the Office suite, and the lingering threat that Microsoft might withdraw support for these applications on the Mac. If Apple had a firm control over the future of Adobe's applications, it would serve as a counterbalance to Microsoft's control over Office, while at the same time securing the future of those important applications for the Mac as well.MG:With $15 billion in the bank, expect Apple to be eyeing lots of folks. I wouldn't speculate publicly who they might be.AE:I've been pondering that for some time, since Apple has billions of dollars in cash right now, more than seems entirely necessary. My best guess right now is that Apple could be thinking about purchasing a major recording studio as a way of splintering the music industry's attitudes toward pricing and DRM.WS:They should purchase Delicious Library and build it into the Apple TV! Aaaaand give me more stock!GM:Besides my company (at a price of 2 billion dollars), probably some embedded technology or a group of embedded programmers. But honestly, I have no idea.JG:Maybe a handheld game development studio, to produce some really high quality, addictive games for the iPhone. I don't think acquisitions are very important for Apple at this point, though.Think forward two years, to Apple, January 2010. What do you think will be the biggest difference from Apple right now?CVR:I think Apple's going to move into another new market; not sure what it is, but they're going to do something about as different as the iPod was from Mac OS X and iPhone was from iPod. More aggressive in the move into owning the living room (but not flatscreen TVs).I'm hoping for endemic EVDO - a move away from needing DSL or a cable modem to "internet everywhere" wireless. Maybe piss off the cable companies by making a play for wireless home internet, which would make sense if they partner or become a cell phone company with a network to plug everyone into. And once you do that ... IP based TV?ME:I see them moving even more to 'application-specific computing devices' and away from traditional general-purpose computers. Hardware that is highly optimised for certain functions, like listening to music, watching movies, mobile communications, and so on. iPods, Apple TVs, iPhones are the beginning, but there's more to come.Small touch-screen devices optimised for mobile professionals, automotive systems, home entertainment and control are all areas where Apple could challenge the prevailing mediocrity.DJ:I think the big difference is they will continue to evolve in the public's perception, appearing more as a general consumer electronics company, and less as a "computer" company. I think this could have some positive effects. If they continue to hit home runs with products, the halo effect could continue to bring in new customers for them. But there's also a risk that as the focus of the company gets spread thin, they will no longer be as effective at hitting those home runs.MG:It's hard to guess two weeks out much less two years.AE:I think things will be roughly the same - two years isn't enough time for the industry to shift in truly significant ways. Apple may have a larger market share, and may have introduced one or more great new products, but it still won't be the dominant operating system. And if my guess is right, we'll just be seeing the next major Mac OS X update shortly before January 2010.WS:I honestly believe the iPhone will be in everyone's pocket. It will destroy the Blackberry, and Palm will be a distant memory. I think this is the device that people have dreamed about for years - the convergence device that allows us to actually have a computer in our pocket.GM:I think the Apple Store will be renamed to "The iPod Store". Again, I really have no idea. Steve Jobs will have some more grey hairs.JG:They'll be selling a range of iPhones, starting at relatively low prices. The iPhone lineup in 2010 will look like the iPod lineup today.How important is the Mac computer line to Apple's future, as the iPod and iPhone generate more of its revenues and profits?The new iMac on display in Cupertino, California. Photo: David Paul Morris/Getty ImagesCVR:It's going to continue to be crucial; Apple will continue to work to be less dependent. We're in the early phases of the time when computers stop being a market, and start being an endemic part of the environment we live in - the future isn't the mini, it's the Apple TV. But to make Apple TV work, you need iTunes and OS X; but non-geeks don't really care, and soon will no longer need to care. The general consumer wants to buy a box that does something, not an OS. Apple knows this, and the OS will disappear into the box (but still be around for us old pharts to use and hack ...)DS:While people often throw away phones every one to two years, people stick with computing platforms. If Apple were to lose a significant portion of its computer supporters, it would become just another electronic gadget company.DJ:Several years ago Apple started talking about the Mac as the centre of the "digital hub", and at that time we had no idea how many devices might ultimately be circling around that hub. Although they don't talk about it so much in those terms these days, it's clear to most people that whatever Apple device you own, it will be enhanced by using it in conjunction with a Mac. I think the Mac will continue to be a high profit component of Apple's product lineup, and something that maintains Apple's reputation for a unified user experience.MG:Mac is critical to Apple. The PC is still the core hub for the digital home in Apple's vision. Macintosh is strategic and not tactical to their business long term.AE:Despite the fact that the Mac doesn't generate nearly as much attention in the mainstream press in comparison to the iPod and iPhone, it's still the core of the company. The iPod and iPhone are, in many ways, still peripherals for the Mac (though of course they can also be managed from Windows machines nowadays).What Apple's doing, of course, is building an ecosystem of devices that all work seamlessly with one another, making the purchase of any one of them an encouragement to use the others. On that basis, and because of the shared development efforts between the Mac (with Mac OS X) and the iPhone (with OS X), it makes no sense for Apple to deprecate Macintosh development efforts.WS:The Mac is huge. As the iPod and iPhone become more advanced devices they will grow closer to the Mac - they will continue to inherit software and technology from the Mac platform. Already the iPhone and iPod touch use Darwin and Core Animation, and the platforms will only grow closer.GM:The Mac is still incredibly important, it's their bread and butter and what they are really known for. Besides that, the Mac is really the foundation of Apple. Even if the iPhone/iPod/iWhatever takes over sales, Apple still needs to make a product that allows their customers to Create Something. Whether it is music with GarageBand, movies with iMovie/iDVD, or just making great playlists with iTunes - you can't forget what the core of Apple is about. Apple at its best is making it easy for everyone with a Mac to create beautiful things and stamp their personality on new media.JG:Actually, in recent quarters, the Mac's share of Apple's profit has risen. That might change again for the holiday quarter, but overall, the Mac is as important to Apple as ever. It's the foundation of what let's them build an entire experience that no other competitor can match.When do you think the next version of Mac OS X will debut?CVR:MacWorld next year. Figure 18-month cycles now, more or less. WWDC this year will probably be more for iPhone development and going deep into Leopard.DJ:I don't put too much weight in my prediction, I guess because it doesn't overly concern me. But I see the development time between major releases getting longer and longer as the operating system evolves. I would guess around 2-3 years, so let's say August, 2010.MG:Again, I don't get into guessing games but I expect we'll hear something about it no later than this year's WWDC.AE:October 2009; Apple would have hit about 24 months but for the iPhone last time.WS:Ooof. Uh, if we were starting a betting pool on the shipping date of 10.6, I'd bet, uh, May of 2009.GM:This is of course a guess and I'm notorious at being wrong - but I think it will ship in November of 2009. The public will get a glimpse of it at WWDC this summer.JG:You mean 10.6? Fall 2009. Just a pure guess.When do you think Steve Jobs will cease to be chief executive at Apple? Any reason why? (Month/year)CVR:Okay, barring some health problem, I think Steve will be around at least another 5 years. I don't think he'll go out on his shield, but he's in no hurry. And as long as the company has Tim Cook to handle operational details and Jonathan Ive for design, I'm not terribly worried about it. Now, if there's another health scare, you might see Steve decide to step back, but honestly, this is what makes him buzz, why give it up?DS:By July 2010, I think Steve will have lost interest.ME:Steve absolutely loves what he does. I believe he'll keep doing it until two things happen: he doesn't love it as much, and he has a team in place that he believes can lead Apple to even greater heights. So far, those conditions are not met. On the other hand, the recent reminder of his own mortality has got to affect the way Steve looks at the relative importance of such things. Personally, I'd guess he'll stay another five years.DJ:I think barring a major change of heart by the board, Steve Jobs will remain as CEO at Apple for many years to come. I don't think he has a better vehicle for following through on his visions, so he has no reason to leave. Unless he became distinctly uninterested in shaping the future of consumer electronics, which I don't anticipate, then he'll be around for a long, long time.MG:Steve will continue as CEO as long he wishes. I suspect there's still a few things Steve would like to do before he retires.AE:Honestly, I can't see him stepping down unless there were some health-related reason. Running Apple these days has to be hugely satisfying for him because he is actually changing the world, and that's always been his primary goal.WS:It will take an act of God to get him out of office.GM:Beats me. I can't even make a fake guess at this one.JG:I don't think it's worth the conjecture. My guess is he'll be there for the foreseeable future.Strengths/weaknesses/opportunities/threats is a classic way to analyze a company's position. What, do you think, are Apple's?CVR:Strengths: strong vision, driven by Steve (for strategy) and Jonathan Ive; great technology underpinnings that allow the creation of powerful products; great operational flexibility and power, so they can actually implement and ship product, but not ship too much or too little. Inventory control is a key part of their success. IT infrastructure second to none - very efficient, lean IT infrastructure, but one closely tied to the needs of the business (how often do you see companies that seem to succeed despite their IT team? Not at Apple). The retail part. To think the pundits saw that as a negative at one point... But it also means Apple has a place where product can make it to market without worrying about how third parties believe (or not) in it and where Apple can control the image.Weaknesses: the belief by many that it's All Steve, and that if something happens to him, Apple is done. No longer true - Apple has people who can step in, but few believe it yet. Having said that, Steve tends to make decisions based on what he believes, not necessarily what research indicates. I can pretty much point to one or two gripes per release that can be pointed back to "that's how Steve wanted it", to the disgust of Ars Technica and the geeks (who are many times right).Apple's on this great run. Eventually, it'll flatten. Eventually, some product will fizzle or fail. And then you can expect an excessive backlash. It HAS to happen. I'm just amazed it hasn't happened yet. To some degree, Apple's very good at this: when the primary message didn't strike a chord, it moves the parade in front of a secondary message that did.Opportunities: lots of places Apple can step in and create new markets, or take a chunk of an emerging one. Endemic internet (via WLAN, EVDO, etc) is one. They're just starting to transform cell phones and the cellular market, and I don't think the cell phone companies can prevent it. Cable Companies and satellite companies might be next; who needs Comcast or DirecTV or Dish when you have high speed wireless into the house and IP-TV channels coming in? Any market that is tied to a walled garden, copper into the house, or proprietary protocols is open to being attacked by a company willing to get IP into the house and build services on top of it.Windows media centre hasn't really made inroads into the living room; neither has Apple TV yet. But this one looks to be coming down to Playstation/Wii/Xbox360 and whatever Apple does. The next two years will define the living room, I think. I think we're going to see a big move towards having your life/environment everywhere - things are moving online, to be there when you want them to be.Threats:Apple's been so successful in some areas (iTunes/music) that companies are looking for ways to force competition on them. Amazon is going to oblige in online video, and it'll make life interesting. Microsoft simply isn't a serious competitor any more, either you're locked in or you aren't, and Vista isn't really showing any traction. Apple is picking off parts of the market as people figure it out.Another threat is the hacker crowd. Apple can't depend on being too small for the hackers; antivirus/antispyware may be an important aspect moving forward, although I think Apple's philosophy is to build in security instead of trying to wall it out later.Apple's a high-pressure place to work; there are a few key people (Tim Cook, Jonathan Ive) they can't really afford to lose. They push their staff hard, but it's a fine line between that and too hard, and Apple employees tend to be heavily recruited. A misstep here might cost them a brain drain that will hurt. So far, they've avoided it (I don't think Jerry Yang will survive 2008 as head of Yahoo - and I think Cook would be the perfect person to fix Yahoo. I just don't think you can convince him to leave Apple, but if someone does? make life interesting).All in all, I'm pretty bullish on Apple. The worst I see for the next few years is that maybe they'll slow down and merely be above average to the industry, instead of the last five years of massive transformation of entire industries ... hey, everyone needs to stop and take a breather ... I don't see much chance of a major downfall, although any flattening of the curve will be over-reacted to by the pundits.DS:Apple's biggestweaknessright now is continuing to try to do everything without significant additional resources. Products like the latest iPhoto and iMovie which are arguably lacking in certain respects from previous versions show that Apple does not have enough "A" team programmers and a strong enough management team to drive software excellence in both phones and computers.DJ:Apple's majorstrengthis its commitment to a superb user experience. One of the reasons this works really well at Apple is because it's not just an order that comes down from the top of the management chain, it's part of the social culture. So a good number of Apple employees are continuously reminding and encouraging each other to strive for an ideal user experience.As Apple continues to expand and spreads its talent across a variety of projects, it will also need to hire more and more new talent. I think a risk in this growth period is they might bring in new talent faster than they can instill that deep commitment to quality. What passes for excellence in some parts of the industry, and will pass you with flying colours through an interview process, does not necessarily translate into doing what's ultimately best for Apple. I hope that as Apple grows and brings in new talent, it's able to keep up with the task of communicating to these new employees how important it is to stand by the idealistic pursuits that make Apple so great.WS:Apple'sstrengthis that its customers and its employees love what it is trying to accomplish - to make computing devices beautiful and simple. People have finally realised that checkboxes don't make software, and that usability is paramount, and Apple's the only company besides Samsung to really understand this at the deepest level.Weakness: hubris, just as with any other company. They continually need to be reminded that they are not the ONLY company, and that they need a vibrant market around them.Opportunities: will remain the same: steal market share from existing cell phones and Windows machines that people hate.Apple's biggestthreatwould be if it closes off its devices - if the iPhone SDK is only available to large companies, for example, so innovation is stifled. Already we've seen the Apple TV flop because it's a closed device - I believe it would be a huge success if they had made it possible for customers to easily extend. If the iPhone or any future platform is closed, it creates an opportunity for a competitor to copy Apple's ease-of-use AND have an open system, and that will always win in the end.GM:Strengths: It's a clich, but Apple only hires top-notch folks. I know a number of people there, and they are all super smart and creative. I don't know a single person who shouldn't be there.Weakness: Their inability to control rumours. Everyone expects some hot new product to come out and then it doesn't, and the stock tanks and the news sources talk about "disappointment". I'm not really helping with my predictions, am I?Our thanks to all who took part.
Every January, Steve Jobs stands on the Macworld stage to announce Apple's plans for the year ahead and show off new products and services. What will there be this year? And how has it done lately, and how will it fare? And when - if ever - will Steve Jobs step down? We asked former Apple employees, software developers and analysts for their views.We did ask a number of current Apple employees to take part anonymously; all however declined.Chuq Von Rospachspent 17 years at Apple, working on enterprise and IT projects, before joining a Silicon Valley startup and "can now watch a Macworld Keynote without stressing out that everything works".David Sobottaworked at Apple for nearly 20 years, leaving in 2004 as director of federal sales.Mike Evangelistworked for Apple until July 2002, responsible for Final Cut Pro, DVD Studio Pro and iDVD.Daniel Jalkutwas a senior systems software engineer at Apple until 2002. He now runs Red Sweater Software.Michael Gartenbergis consumer technology analyst for Jupiter Research.Adam Engstis the editor of the TidBits site, and has repeatedly been named one of the five most influential people in the Apple ecosystem.Wil Shipleyis founder of Delicious Monster Software. All Delicious Monster's staff, except himself, have subsequently been hired by Apple.Gus Muelleris founder of Flying Meat, an independent software company that develops exclusively for OS X.What do you think Apple will and won't announce at Macworld?Chuq von RospachLeopard 10.5.2. Laptop refreshes. The really tiny super-portable seems likely, but probably with some kind of "Steve" twist. It won't just be a "road warrior" box, it'll be something more than that. A refresh of the Apple TV. Perhaps readers for Blu-ray [DVDs]. Biggest news will be in the iTunes area, with rentals. I wonder what the "one more thing" is this year ... Raid disks? SAN? Network server? But nothing between pro tower and laptop.David SobottaA laptop update in the MacBook line without a hard drive, [but not] ultra-portable.Mike EvangelistA subnotebook or dramatically slimmer full-size notebook. A new AppleTV, probably with a much-improved movie download (and/or rental) system for iTunes. Network storage for home users. 16GB iPhone. An update to Leopard. But no 3G iPhone.Daniel JalkutSome flavour of the much-rumoured subcompact notebook, a stunning new downloadable video rental service and possibly some hints about the forthcoming iPhone/Touch software developer kit (SDK).Michael GartenbergWhatever it is people think it will introduce will be wrong.Adam EngstSome sort of new portable Mac, or possibly a tablet that has more in common with an iPhone than a Mac. A 3G iPhone, with an improved camera and videoconferencing. Apple TV with some new functionality. An iTunes Store that enables [video] rentals. I doubt we'll see any significant software.Wil ShipleyI'm most excited by the prospect of a possible Apple tablet, but I'm not sure there's a market for such a thing beyond &uuml;ber-nerds like me. I'd be surprised if they actually did, because the worldwide market for Windows tablets has been confined to Microsoft marketing people.Gus MuellerSomething with a touchscreen. Smaller than a laptop but bigger than an iPhone using new low-power processors from Intel - "iPad". Maybe an update to Aperture. An announcement about taking the OS in a "lean and mean" direction now that it's finding its way on smaller devices. And a free version of .Mac. But I think a "media rental service" is out of the question, along with an entry-level iPhone.What has been the smartest and dumbest thing Apple has done in the past year?CVRSmartest: the iPhone. Great piece of hardware, awesome introduction and marketing. Dumbest: underestimating developer interest in the iPhone and mishandling that demand.DSSmartest: lowering the price of the iPhone. It needed to be done. Dumbest: bricking the iPhone, because it brought such high-profile negative press.MESmartest: negotiating revenue sharing from the cell companies for each iPhone contract. Brilliant. Dumbest: negotiating revenue sharing, because trying to keep an iron grip on the iPhone's functionality and software is very customer-hostile.DJSmartest: how it has been firing on all cylinders with the Mac, the iPhone and iPod is all representative of a very smart strategy. Dumbest: no comment.MGSmartest: a combination of strong products, strong marketing message, strong retail experience and a strong attention to small details. Dumbest: the iPhone price cut. Apple didn't seem to notice that part of the [iPhone] buyers were very non-traditional early adopters who were not used to seeing prices fall.AESmartest: announcing a true SDK for iPhone development. Dumbest: bricking iPhones was pretty darn stupid.WSSmartest: announcing the iPhone SDK - reversing their closed position. Third-party applications and games for the iPhone are going to make it the most ubiquitous device in the universe. Dumbest: trying to sell Ajax as the original iPhone SDK at the Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) in June.GMSmartest: the iPhone, no question about it. Dumbest: the "Sweet iPhone SDK" announced at WWDC. Trying to pull that one on the smartest folks in the Mac developer ecosystem was insane.Who will be Apple's most dangerous competitors in the coming two years?CVRAmazon: because the music labels are still looking for someone they can back to reduce their dependence on Apple in the music world, and the video side doesn't want to hand Apple the keys the way the music people did.DSApple, while not competition to itself, is always its own worst enemy.DJAs companies like Amazon and Netflix move into the same digital sales areas as Apple, they will be a formidable threat because they seem to be establishing better relationships with media companies.MGThose it needs to fear the least are those consortiums that are being created out of a common dislike of Apple. The enemy of my enemy is my friend is not a business strategy.AEGoogle wants to make itself ubiquitous, and projects like Android (the cellphone platform) show that at some point Google will want more control over the devices that access its services.WSApple's biggest weakness will be within - trying to manage its growth while still keeping a maverick spirit.GMMicrosoft. I look forward to the day they pull their head out of their ass, cut out a bunch of fat and ship a real OS.What would be the best acquisition Apple could make in the next year?CVRAdobe. It would give Apple more control over some core applications that help drive the platform in key market segments (Photoshop!), plus bring in some interesting new technologies. A really wild option might be to do something like buy Nintendo. Or Sony.METiVo. Apple could completely dominate the television experience ... from providing content to making it accessible in the ways people really want.DJAdobe. If Apple had firm control over Adobe's applications, it would counterbalance Microsoft's control over Office.AEA major recording studio, as a way of splintering the music industry's attitudes toward pricing and DRM.GMBesides my company (for $2bn), probably some embedded technology.Think forward to January 2010. What do you think will be the biggest difference from Apple right now?CVRI think they're going to do something about as different as the iPod was from Mac OS X and iPhone was from iPod. More aggressive in the move into owning the living room.MESmall touchscreen devices optimised for mobile professionals, automotive systems, home entertainment and control - challenge the prevailing mediocrity.DJThey will continue to evolve in the public's perception, appearing more as a general consumer electronics company, and less as a "computer" company.WSI believe the iPhone will be in everyone's pocket. It will destroy the Blackberry, and Palm will be a distant memory.GMI think the Apple Store will be renamed "The iPod Store". Steve Jobs will have some more grey hairs.When do you think the next version of Mac OS X will debut?CVRMacworld next year. Figure 18-month cycles now, more or less.DJI would guess around two to three years, so let's say August, 2010.MGI expect we'll hear something about it no later than this year's WWDC.AEOctober 2009; Apple would have hit about 24 months but for the iPhone last time.WSIf we were starting a betting pool on the shipping date of 10.6, I'd bet May of 2009.GMI'm notorious at being wrong - but I think it will ship in November of 2009. We'll get a glimpse of it at WWDC.When and why do you think Steve Jobs will cease to be chief executive?CVRBarring some health problem, I think Steve will be around at least another five years. I don't think he'll go out on his shield, but he's in no hurry.DSBy July 2010, I think Steve will have lost interest.MEI believe he'll keep doing it until he doesn't love it as much, and he has a team in place that he believes can lead Apple to even greater heights. So far, those conditions are not met. I'd guess he'll stay another five years.DJI think barring a major change of heart by the board, Steve Jobs will remain for many years to come. I don't think he has a better vehicle for following through on his visions, so he has no reason to leave.MGAs long as he wishes. I suspect there are still a few things Steve would like to do before he retires.AEI can't see him stepping down unless there were some health-related reason.WSIt will take an act of God to get him out of office.Their full answers can be readhere.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday January 12 2008The abbreviation for megabytes (MB) was used in error in the article below. We should have used Mb, for megabits.BT is boosting Britain's attempt to remain at the top of the global broadband market with plans to install a network at Ebbsfleet in Kent that offers speeds 20 times faster than the average UK household connection. The company hopes its deployment of the UK's fastest ever residential network, at the development of 10,000 new homes, will be a crucial testbed as the government, regulator Ofcom and industry come to decide how to upgrade the country's broadband network.From August, BT's Openreach unit will start installing super fast fibre connections rather than traditional copper phone lines at the Ebbsfleet site, owned by Land Securities. It will offer the lines to BT Retail and rival ISPs and media companies such as Carphone Warehouse's TalkTalk and BSkyB, on a wholesale basis, enabling these companies to provide a host of bandwidth-hungry services such as high definition TV and film downloads."Openreach will provide the basic infrastructure and service providers will have the opportunity to build their own services on the back of it," explained head of Openreach Steve Robertson.The move was welcomed by business minister Stephen Timms, who last year warned that the country risks being left behind in the broadband race by countries such as the US, Japan, Korea, France and Germany where new fibre networks are already being rolled out."Ultra fast broadband is a key future technology that will allow our businesses to innovate, grow and create wealth as well as providing even greater options for consumers," he said.Openreach will today propose the prices it will charge for the use of its new fibre connections, ranging from &pound;100 a year for a basic line to &pound;530 a year for the fastest connection, at 100 MB per second. Openreach will hold a meeting with potential industry customers next week to discuss these proposed prices, but exactly what services will be offered and what price residents of Ebbsfleet will ultimately be charged is up to the service providers to decide.The 100-MB top speed available over the new fibre network is more than 20 times faster than the current average UK residential broadband connection, which Ofcom estimated last year at 4.6 MB.The top speed available in Ebbsfleet also ranks alongside speeds already on offer in Japan, Korea and the US and will keep Britain in competition with France and Germany where large-scale fibre networks are to be built over the coming four years. It is also twice the speed being tested by Virgin Media on its existing cable network in some parts of Kent.But the Ebbsfleet development is just the start of Britain's journey into the next phase of broadband. Last year Ofcom launched a consultation into the regulation of next generation access networks while Timms called industry leaders to a summit before Christmas to discuss who will pay for them. Timms is expected to make a statement setting out his initial views within the next few weeks.Replacing copper phone lines with fibre will cost upwards of &pound;10bn and many in the industry expect the country's next generation broadband network to actually be a patchwork of fibre, high-speed copper lines and wireless access in more rural areas.Openreach hopes to be able to start installing fibre connections at all new major residential developments in the UK from this year and is in discussions with Ofcom as to what regulation is needed. In fact Openreach reckons it is no more expensive to deliver fibre based infrastructure than it is to put copper lines in the ground. But Ebbsfleet and other new developments will also inform the wider discussion of getting super-fast broadband into existing premises, Robertson hopes.Explainer: Global connectionsIn any discussion of ultra-fast broadband, South Korea and Japan always loom large.South Korea has an estimated 90% of its population plugged into broadband with the average advertised speed, according to the OECD, at  43MB a second.In Japan - where take-up ranks alongside the UK's at about half the population - the average advertised connection is 90MB. Japan's largest communications company, NTT, plans to have fibre-optic networks plugged into 95% of homes by 2010.In the US, meanwhile, Verizon is spending $23bn (&pound;11.75bn) putting fibre within the reach of 18m homes by the end of the decade. Many parts of the US already have fast cable connections supplied by local TV operators such as Time Warner Cable in New York.The French government has set a target of 4m cable homes by 2012. France Telecom expects to have about three-quarters of those connections and its investment is likely to reach up to &euro;4.5bn (&pound;3.4bn). In Germany, Deutsche Telekom is installing fibre-optic networks in 50 cities this year.
When I say mainstream, I suppose I mean I can finally imagine my Mum using it - in the form of a GPS for dogs. The 100 Zoombak pet locator straps to your dog's collar and will text and email you if you dog leaves a defined 'safe area'.You get the real-time location of Mabel and cancheck up online. So if you have an escaplogist dog (or just want to track exactly where you partner goes when they walk the dog) this is probably for you.CNethas video.Cute On the Christmas list: the52" Philips touchscreen. Also spotted: the build-your-own-gadget kitBugLabs. You get one Bug Base micro-computer and can snap-on new modules, like the digital camera or an LCD screen, when you need them.CNetpoints out that you could DIY your own GPS-enabled digital camera and upload images to Flickr. CES is full of iPod docks -Valleywagcites the prediction by the Consumer Electronic Association that they will start to eclipse sales of traditional stereos this year. But of all those,Shiny Shinyhas found the best - the Lasonic iPod Boom Box. Just like the old days. Hear the Wall Street Journal's legendary tech correspondent Walt Mossberg embarking on his 13th-ish CES courtesy ofBoomTown. He says he hates the people and says there are just too many companies: "but I'm forced to do it by Rupert Murdoch," referring to the new owner of the WSJ.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:CEStechnorati tags end
MySpace is aiming to the crack the entertainment and celebrity market with a new spin-off, MySpace Celebrity, which the company is touting as "Hollywood's new homepage".The new website will feature news, gossip from People magazine's website, blogs, video content and an index of more than 300 official celebrities that have profiles on MySpace.Official celebrity profiles already featured on MySpace include Ashton Kutcher, Britney Spears, Leonardo DiCaprio, Paris Hilton and Vince Vaughn.The launch of the dedicated celebrity area marks the latest step in MySpace's strategy to broaden its image beyond its reputation as a home for music.It has already launched a dedicated MySpace channel for politics, called Impact, and has a gaming portal in the works."MySpace Celebrity is Hollywood's new homepage," said MySpace co-founder Tom Anderson. "Celebrities have been using MySpace since the site's launch and it's a natural extension for us to now offer them an aggregated channel where they can be in control of their own image."We want MySpace users to connect with celebrities in the same way that they do with musicians."Pooling the official celebrity profiles in one place will make it much easier for fans to weed out the many fake celebrity sites that have been set up by other MySpace users.The website will include a "featured icon" spot  with Matthew McConaughey taking the slot at launch today  that includes exclusive questions and answers.Other features include articles highlighting charity work done by celebrities, behind-the-scenes footage of life as a star and daily blogs by different celebrities. Getty Images will supply the official celebrity photos for the website.Separately, the Los Angeles Times is reporting that MySpace has been subpoenaed to give evidence about the bizarre suicide of a 13-year-old girl who was bullied on the social networking website.Megan Meier, from Missouri, hanged herself after being tormented on MySpace by an imaginary 16-year-old, a character allegedly created by one of the girl's neighbours.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
On Sunday, Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates gave his 11th, and last, keynote speech at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas; in future he will focus his efforts on the Gates Foundation and its fight against disease. So, after 14 years, we can look back and ask: how did he do?Well, he gets a mixed report. He did well for the show, reasonably well in tracking the industry, and badly when launching new products. (Transcripts of Gates's speeches from 1996 to 2008 are on Microsoft's site at tinyurl.com/2a8nox; the first from CES is the 1998 one.)Gates was very successful in attracting large audiences, and in helping to get CES reported - which is basically how he got the gig in the first place. Plenty of people wanted to see the world's richest man (as he became in 1995). And if they didn't find his boyish geekiness compelling, they could still enjoy his spoof videos and celebrity guests, from wrestler The Rock to Slash, the Guns N' Roses guitarist.Trend spotter - if not setterGates has also done pretty well at predicting industry trends, particularly the success of personal computers. Microsoft's stated aim was to get one on every desk and in every home, which few people thought possible, even in the US. But by the mid-90s, Gates was predicting a proliferation of smart devices, and Microsoft developed a new operating system, Windows CE, to run them.A decade ago, for example, he told his CES audience: "But I don't believe the personal computer will be the only tool of the information age. It will be one of the most important with its full-size screen, and its ability to run rich applications, but I think there are going to be a variety of form factors. People want information everywhere they go. They want it on a small device. They want it in their car. They want it combined with their wireless telephone. And so we are going to see quite a large number of devices come along that tie together. None of these devices will succeed if it's a standalone device. None of them will succeed if they don't move the information easily between each other and with the PC."That's mostly right, though he didn't suggest that information could be moved over the net. However, a couple of years later, Microsoft launched Microsoft.net, and "web services" became a new mantra. In his keynotes at the Comdex Fall exhibition in Las Vegas in 1999 and 2000 - a sort of business version of CES - Gates also backed XML, a superset of HTML, as the key to doing it. He was right about that, too.This year, Gates mentioned "the cloud" several times, incorporating the new reality. He said: "No longer will users have to bridge between the devices, and they're the ones who have to remember what's where. By having essentially the master of what's going on stored up in the cloud, things like docking up, connecting, searching across devices will be very simple, and the information, of course, can be shared across many users."Windows CE was supposed to run on vast numbers of small connected devices, including set-top boxes and games consoles. Microsoft produced special versions for cars (Auto PC), PDAs (Pocket PC) and phones (Windows Mobile). The fact is, though, it doesn't. The vision was largely right, but again, either it didn't fit the market, or the execution was lacking.Where Gates often came unstuck was in product launches. The most famous example was Microsoft Bob, a pictorial front end that was supposed to make PCs easier to use. Gates unveiled it at CES in 1995, and it is still a running joke. Another failure was the Mira "smart display screen", also a CE-based device, demonstrated at CES in 2002. The idea was that you could use the screen wirelessly, away from your PC. It died almost as soon as it shipped.Even clunkier was the Spot ("smart personal objects technology") watch. The idea was that lots of different types of Spot device could be updated with weather, news, sports and other information via local radio broadcasts. Gates showed Spot devices at Comdex in 2002 and CES in 2003. They failed to take off.A less well known example came in the Comdex keynote in 1999, where Gates showed an online version of Microsoft Office. It was offered as a service hosted by ASPs (application service providers); again, it didn't catch on.Another of Gates's pet ideas is the Tablet PC, which appeals to him because it encourages the "natural" use of a pen on a touch-sensitive screen. Gates announced the idea in his Comdex keynote in 2000 and showed prototypes a year later, saying "It's a PC that is virtually without limits - and within five years I predict it will be the most popular form of PC sold in America." Six years on, they have yet to become a significant market.Branching outGates's one success outside of the business arena was the Xbox games console, which he launched during his CES speech at the start of 2001. It wasn't a huge success, but did well enough for Microsoft to play in the next round of the console wars with the Xbox 360. Even if it never makes any money, it has given Microsoft valuable experience in running in a vertically integrated consumer business - where, like Apple, it controls the hardware, software and online service - instead of providing software platforms for hardware manufacturers to build on.And so Microsoft used that expertise to launch ... Zune! Again, that came from Microsoft's consumer-oriented Entertainment and Devices division, which last year contributed only $6bn (&pound;3bn) to the company's $51bn in annual revenues, and lost $1.9bn. It's less than impressive.However, if that were the whole story, Gates wouldn't be leaving his day job as one of the world's richest men. Which just goes to show: you can be bad at predictions and still get it right in the long term.Bobbie Johnson is roaming the halls in Las Vegas with our video team. On our site you'll find daily videos on the latest gadgets and how they work, plus analysis of some of the major themes emerging from CES, including an interview with the head of Warner Home Entertainment on its switch to the Blu-ray high-definition DVD format - which may kill its rival, HD-DVD.
Luxury car brand Cadillac could soon be ditching its 1950s finned glamour for a futuristic identity: that of a hydrogen-powered car which drives itself.Rick Waggoner, chief executive of General Motors, which owns Cadillac, told the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas yesterday that the company wanted to revolutionise the car industry by dropping reliance on fossil fuels and handing over control of cars to robot drivers.He said work was progressing well. "We're putting resources like crazy into it and we haven't seen anything yet that says we've hit a glitch on it," he said. The car, nicknamed Boss, is being developed in conjunction with Carnegie Mellon University, with an eye on public testing by 2015 and full production three years later."The technology exists right now to move cars without a driver," said a GM spokesman. "This [model] would know where all the vehicles are around it, dramatically reduce accidents and even reduce congestion."It is not the first time that great claims have been made for driverless technology, but advances in software and communications are making it more attractive.Green vehicles are also getting of attention at the conference, with GM planning to launch Provoq by 2010, which can hit 100mph but emits only water vapour.There is large market for environmentally friendly cars, with Toyota's Prius hybrid vehicle already popular in the US. New manufacturer Tesla Motors, based in the technology hot spot of Silicon Valley rather than the automotive heartlands of America's midwest, is hoping to launch its first electric sports car early this year.Evidence at the conference suggested big changes in the car industry over the next 10 years, with a slew of new launches on display.Although the Las Vegas conference, the largest technology trade show in the world, is primarily attended by electronics and computer firms, car manufacturers are out in force this year in an attempt to paint themselves as innovative, hi-tech companies.Hundreds of gadgets for drivers are being launched, including in-car stereos which can hook up to MP3 players wirelessly, and satellite navigation systems that update information on journeys using data gathered from your own car.Elsewhere, Microsoft used an address by its chairman, Bill Gates, to show off next generation in-car systems being developed with Ford, which allow complex voice recognition to control the car's functions simply by speaking.Some experts even said that cars could soon form a sort of social network, sharing information between different vehicles and their drivers. "It's possible that BMW's 7 Series customers, who are all part of the same network, will receive data on local weather conditions based on feedback from other 7 Series drivers," said Steve Millstein, of telematics company ATX.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
The laptopWiredis impressed with the meaty GatewayP-series FX Editionlaptop, spec'd up for the optimum gaming experience with a 1900x1200 resolution display, HD DVD drive, Intel Mobile Extreme X7900 processor and 512MB of video RAM. A trial of Call of Duty 4 was totally glitch free even during heavy scenes, but it's a beast of a machine - heavy and big and with a battery life so bad that Gateway left it off the press release. It's on sale for $3,000.The Gateway P-series FX Edition3D projection gogglesI'm struggling to see an advantage in wearable displays, other than the novelty. But perhaps that's enough for some people.Argo PC/3DGlasses that project the screen in front of you are nothing new, but22 Moohave added a 3D feature to theirArgomodel. The screen size is still only 640x480, which, asWiredpoints out, is equivalent to having a 42" TV screen hovering 6" in front of you.It's PC and Mac compatible, works with the Sony PSP, iPod and Zune and is being aimed at gamers after a 3D experience. But the 3D feature will only work for PC users with a NVDIA graphics card, and the goggles alone cost $550. We want pics of the demo, but you can't have everything.Vibrating game-enhancement - and a halfThe ButtKicker, on the other hand, might appeal to gamers looking for a more physically enhanced experience. Bolt it on to your preferred gaming chair and it belts you every time there's a bang. In an effort at market expansion, the ButtKicker will respond to any sound from your computer so you could be thumped - or, at the very least, pummelled - along to your favourite tunes.Engadgetsaid "it tickled us in many nuanced ways," so let's leave it there.Photo:EngadgetThe wireless headphonesHeadphones. Wireless, full-duplex stereo - and perfect for gaming. Creative's HS-1200 is being targeted at gamers but will also work for telephony. The microphone switches off when you flip it up and on when you flip it back down, and it connects with a USB transceiver that doesn't need any installation software. It will retail in the US for $150 but asCNetpoints out, one drawback could be the internal battery which might degrade with time.CNetpreviews the HS-1200technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:CEStechnorati tags end
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday January 24 2008We stated in error that Amazon's Kindle e-book reader has Wi-Fi wireless connectivity when in fact it is via EVDO, a 3G mobile phone standard. This has been corrected.Finally, I got my hands - even if only very briefly - on an Amazon Kindle. My first impressions? The type was much too big. (Vic Keegan had been using it.) Within the 30 seconds after which a gadget is declared unusable, I found the font size control, shrank the words and could begin reading. Except I kept clicking the wrong button, moving back and forth through pages by mistake. (The grey-on-dark-grey of the screen only echoed the fact that the pages belonged to The New York Times, one of the dullest important papers in the world.)Looking on the back, I noted a button to turn the EVDO on and off. Interesting: so this would be how you synchronise your books and, of course, newspapers while you're waiting at the railway station (something I do frequently, in common with millions of commuters). Turn on the EVDO, hook up to the service that you will of course have at the station - and perhaps even on the train through something like WiMax, or through good old 3G phone services - and you're done. There's your content to read.My reaction? It won't catch on, at least in this incarnation. But I realise, too, that it would be foolish to predict how electronic reading is going to pan out, because there are two unstoppable trends going on which have been continuing for at least 20 years and show no signs of letting up: people prefer to read bite-sized pieces of information, and people are reading more distinct pieces. Whether we're reading more in terms of the volume of words compared to 20 years ago is hard to tell, but I'd guess so. That means electronic newspapers - the sort that you update at the railway or tube or even bus station - will have some sort of future.But the question in all this is: who makes the money? I know that we keep hearing that "content is king". But considering my future self on an icy platform holding a Kindle aloft trying to get a wireless signal (for even my station out in the country has a paper shop offering Wi-Fi), I realised that it won't be the content creators who'll have the chokehold; it'll be the controllers of the distribution channels. In other words, distribution, not content, is king.Here's why. If people stop buying papers and buy Kindles (and, of course, future e-book readers) instead, they'll need to be able to feed them. They'll do that at home in the morning via their broadband connection, or on the station platform (perhaps to get that very latest update with audio and video) via its EVDO, or from a mobile network. The content sources are as vast as the web; the distribution sources, limited to telecoms companies. Without the latter, your Kindle or its kith and kin is just a pricey place to rest your morning coffee. You pay for your broadband. You pay (probably) for the EVDO. You pay for the 3G connection.That's why the FTSE 100 - the largest companies by value on the London Stock Exchange - includes companies such as BT, Vodafone, O2, Cable &amp; Wireless, BSkyB (satellite-based distribution!), and the newly entered Carphone Warehouse (busy making money by unbundling BT's lines). True, there are also six content-making companies in the FTSE 100 - but one of them is Emap, which will soon vanish: it has sold itself off to various other media groups (including Guardian Media Group, publishers of this paper).That motif - that distribution is the real king in the digital age - is one which doesn't sound so terrific if you stand up and proclaim it at a conference. After all, it's quite difficult to offer a distribution service all over the world; not at all like content, which can be breezily squirted on to the internet. The advantage though for BT, or at least Openreach, its network (distribution) arm, is that competitors need both a physical network to offer a competing service, and also trained people to make it work. What's more, there's no chance that BT or Vodafone's engineers' jobs will be done from abroad - another way in which distribution trumps content, for those worrying about the employment effects of the internet such as Nick Carr noted last week (The big switch could turn off jobs, January 3).That's why I've been saying for years that if the music companies had been smart when file-sharing services came along, they would have started buying telecoms companies offering broadband services. You might as well absorb the organisms that are eating you; that way as they get larger, so will you.After all, at its heart the internet is a distribution medium. Who wouldn't want to own it?
It's parky at the far end of Leeds station's platform six. There is talk of snow and Zak Gamble and Earl Cliff are having to put up with the usual mocking glances from some passersby.For nearly 200 years men like them have been quietly going about their hobby noting down train types and numbers, and in the process providing raw material for comedians.This has been the lot of the traditional trainspotter. But that might be about to change - thanks to the lure of a purpose built, centrally heated, wired-up railway archive which opens today 20 miles up the line at York."Why freeze like this, when I could be curling up in a chair in a nice, cosy computer suite?" says Gamble, an 18-year-old chef snatching a few diesel and electric numbers in his lunch break, as he reads about the &pound;4m of gizmos for people just like him.News is spreading through the trainspotter community of a big opportunity for number-takers and loco-snappers, but one which could also end their familiar outdoor vigils.Almost every engine number, company livery and set of coaches ever run is available from today to study free at the Search Engine centre in York's National Railway Museum, instead of from the end of chilly platforms. Using the internet to track down pictures, timetables and design plans of rare locomotives or unusual rolling stock, the &pound;4m research suite is set to subvert younger spotters."The more interactive they can make it the better," says Zak. "Maybe I'll never have to leave home."The archive is one of the biggest collections in Britain to make everything available. Letters and reports alone stretch for nearly three miles, and specialist spotters can browse through 350,000 different tickets, in most cases handling the real thing."It will be a fantastic resource," says David Hinchliffe, another Leeds spotter, whose brother builds scrupulously accurate model railway layouts. "He needs to get everything right and it sounds as though this will tell him which engine used which station and when. That sort of thing matters in the railway enthusiasts' world."The archive goes far beyond the tick list horizons of the basic trainspotter, with material including rare posters.But Leeds spotters are sceptical about the prospect of the archive achieving what anti-terror measures and inflation in platform tickets have so far failed to do and bring spotters in from the cold."Getting out into the fresh air is part of it for me," says Earl Cliff, 51 and a retired NHS finance manager from Doncaster. "We're all different kinds of spotters. Some people look everything up on the internet so when they come here they know exactly what they'll be seeing, provided the trains run on time. But I like the unexpected. You turn up not knowing what will come along. It's funny how often there's nothing, and then three of what you're after arrive together."But he plans to give Search Engine a try to look for material to add to hundreds of videos which he keeps at home but seldom if ever finds time to see.Trainspotters were urged to join visitors to the archive by the director of the museum, Andrew Scott, who has also released hours of audio for free public use including the museum's unrivalled collection of "recorded railway sounds".Scott offered one other temptation for Zak, Earl and friends to leave their platforms. "The suite has fabulous views of the locomotives in our Great Hall," he said.These include the 308-tonne engine and tender given by China to Lady Thatcher, when she was prime minister, who had nowhere else to keep it.
The One Laptop Per (OLPC) project is working with Microsoft to develop a dual-boot system to put both Linux and Windows on XO laptops aimed at the third world, says theIDG News Service."We are working with them very closely to make a dual-boot system so that, like on an Apple, you can boot either one up. The version that's up and running of Windows on the XO is very fast, it's very, very successful. We're working very hard to do both," said Nicholas Negroponte, chairman of OLPC.Intel Classmate PC designs and the Asus Eee PC can run either Linux or Windows.Negroponte has been talking to journalists at CES, where the OLPC's laptop was showcased as an innovative product. The Guardian's John Domokos dida videoin Las Vegas, where Negroponte responds to The Economist article, among other things.Intel Classmate PC designs and the Asus Eee PC can run either Linux or Windows.Also see another recent OLPC post:The Economist trashes terrible OLPC.
I last bought a PC five years ago. Do I need a new one?Mike CollisThe short answer is that if it still does what you want, no, you don't need a new one. But there are other considerations, such as the need to keep your PC working in the modern world, and what will happen to your data when it fails.If you buy a PC to do some specific tasks, then by rights it should continue to perform those tasks until the hardware breaks down. However, this assumes that the software won't be upgraded, and that you won't want to do new things. For example, a PC that happily ran Internet Explorer 3 will not perform as well with IE7 or Firefox 3. Also, it may not work as well, if at all, with websites that use web 2.0 programming techniques.Even then, you may not have to buy a new PC. If yours runs Windows XP SP2, then it would probably be OK with a cheap memory uprade. If it needs a memory upgrade, a new graphics card, a bigger hard drive and so on, you're better off buying a new (or second-hand) one.Another important question is this: if you had to buy a new PC tomorrow (following a catastrophic hardware failure), would you be able to move your data to a new one? Are current PCs capable of running your old software? If not, are current packages capable of importing your old data? There are probably still people happily using BBC Micros with 5.25in floppies and Amstrads with 3in drives, but when they do have to upgrade, the conversion might be a bit tricky. And people get a new appreciation for how valuable their data is when they can no longer access it.As a rule of thumb, it's usually OK to skip one system upgrade, but it can be increasingly dangerous to skip two, three or more. You don't have to be at the leading edge of technology, but watch out that you don't fall off the trailing edge.
To complete a New Year resolution, I am trying to tidy up the two computers my wife and I use. For example, looking for things we do not want, I found I386 with various folders. There must be more unnecessary items and I wonder if there is a way of finding out what they are, other than by deleting one and making the computer malfunction.Nigel WardAre you also planning to tidy up your car by removing parts of the engine that don't seem to do anything? Or will you, instead, tidy up maps, books, shoes, boxes of tissues etc that have been left behind by users, rather than installed by the vehicle's manufacturer and supplier? There's always a good case for tidying up "user space" by deleting your unwanted files and by splitting vast document dumps into logical subdirectories. But it's a bad idea to mess around with system files if you don't know what they do. It's safer to keep these files hidden -- hidden files are always, in effect, tidy -- or ignore them.If you actually want to clear some space, run CCleaner (ccleaner.com). This will remove temporary files, unwanted log files and so on. If more dramatic action is required, use the Control Panel's Add or Remove Programs to uninstall applications that you rarely or never use. Running a program such asVisDir 1.4orWinDirStatwill show you the biggest directories, which is where you can save the most space. Typically, these will be video and audio files, and directories full of photographs.
Today I received a spam message that said it came from my account and so sailed through my filters. Is it possible that my PC is infected in any way and is sending these out?Peter BeavenIt's unlikely. The mail headers you attached show the message originated in Gomel, Belarus, so it definitely didn't come from your PC. It's probably a case of spamming software being used to forge the From: address to make it the same as the To: address (ie yours), instead of using the address of some innocent bystander.However, if you are unlucky, then you are that innocent bystander, and millions of spams have been sent out with your forged address. You could therefore get thousands of "bounces" and undelivered returns from ISPs who know for a fact that you didn't send it.Anyone can find out where an email probably originated by pasting the headers intohttp://emailtrackerpro.visualware.com/
Can emails be backdated? I recently had a situation come up that makes me question the validity of a certain email I was sent.PaulPreviously I'd have said not, because if mail is sent via an ISP or a web-based mail service, the date and time will usually be correct. However, if you are running a mail server, then you probably can backdate an email, perhaps by setting your PC's clock to an earlier date. Even then, an email will be forwarded by a number of other machines on its way to its destination, and these will add their own date and time.I believe it is possible to insert fake Received: lines to try to hide when and where a message originated, but the real entries can't be faked, because they are not under the sender's control. If an email seems to have been backdated, check the "Received:" entries to see if it had a spurious start date or was delayed somewhere en route.
Trend Micro's free scan, as you advised. I now have a folder called .housecall6.6 with various files in it, but there is no reference to it in Windows' Add or Remove Programs.David AustenTrend Micro's Housecall is an online malware scanner: it's run from the web (housecall.trendmicro.com) using a kernel loaded into your browser. However, it downloads virus recognition patterns to your PC for speed and convenience. You can easily have 100MB of these signatures.You can delete the folder if you don't want it hanging around. Of course, this will delete Housecall's logs, and if you decide to use the service again, there will be a delay while it downloads another set of signatures.
Suddenly when I try to open some of my older Word documents, it says: "You are trying to open a file that was created in an earlier version of Microsoft Office. This file type is blocked from opening in this version by your registry policy settings." Charming!Mark OttawayFrom what you've told me, I think this is probably the result of a security update,KB934181, which is intended to block infected Word files. It's certainly a known problem, and it is dealt with on the Microsoft Knowledge Base athttp://support.microsoft.com/kb/922849/. There's also a link page (KB922850) for people who get the same error message about Excel or PowerPoint files.
Yes, according toChart Trackfigures, EA's footie favourite sold 25% more than second-best seller, Dr Kawashima's Brain Training, and twice as many copies as Halo 3.Oh.Here's the rest of the chart...1. FIFA 2008 (EA) 2. Dr Kawashima's Brain Training (Nintendo) 3. Call Of Duty 4 (Activision) 4. Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 (Konami) 5. More Brain Training from Dr Kawashima (Nintendo) 6. Halo 3 (Microsoft) 7. The Simpsons Game (EA) 8. Wii Play (Nintendo) 9. Assassin's Creed (Ubisoft) 10. WWE Smackdown VS Raw 2008 (THQ)
Here we go again. At the end of November the controversial sacking of GameSpot reviewer Jeff Gerstmann, ostensibly linked to his critical review of Kane and Lynch (Joystiq catalogues the whole affairhere) exhumed some long-standing questions about the close relationship between games publishers and the games media.That alleged example of a publisher using intimidation to control the specialist press was far from clear-cut - no-one outside of GameSpot really knows why Gerstmann was fired (asthishighly critical commentary on games journalism's response to the controversy points out). Now Dan Hsu, editor of US games mag EGM, has used his latest editorial column to name three publishers who have apparently threatened to 'ban' the magazine from covering its games due to previous poor scores. VGMWatch was first online withthe 'details'.Naturally, it'sallovertheweb, but few sites have talked to Dan or really considered what it means to 'ban' a magazine from covering games. Seriously, the worst a publisher can do is refuse to send out preview and review code - aggravating and infantile but not quite censorship. I like Escapist'stake on the story, which more-or-less accuses Hsu of attempting to drum up sales for his mag in the quiet post-Xmas period by inventing an outrage.Still, it's got everyone talking about the state of games journalism again, which is always fun. I'm interested to see if any other editors feel compelled to leap out of the bullying closet and start throwing around accusations. Where will it all lead? Oh I know. Nowhere.Publishers sometimes bully games mags - that's the way it is. The power relationship between these two symbiotic forces is intricate and erratic with neither side fully understanding the value or strength of the other at any given time. In the age of casual gaming and the unaccountable personal blog the ties have been stretched even further. But nothing will change because one editor names a few names.
Have a quick scroll down thisFrench pageto see the impressive coverage of the new French president of Facebook, Arash Derambarsh. Only problem is, he was voted President on a Facebook application, and this has no meaning to the American corporation behind the social networking site. He could just as easily have been voted Top Vampire or Pirate, or whatever.TechCrunch has the full story atFrench Press Falls For Major Facebook Prank, and comments:A simple user managed to generate the biggest prank in the history of Facebook and the press bought it. Hilarious, ridiculous, but also worrying and sad for the French press (a big chunk of it) whose credibility has been hit hard.
