What's this? A movie tie-in game that's actually good? Is there a glitch in the Matrix? If the received wisdom on movie tie-in games is that they're generally atrocious, then Cars 2 doesn't just buck the trend, it throws it off completely. In fact, it's good enough to appeal to a few curmudgeons who have no time for the Pixar film of the same name.The reason for this is partially due to the fact that in most instances, movie tie-in games are hampered somewhat by their developers having to crowbar in plot points from the film source material.Cars 2 doesn't have this problem; Avalanche has tipped its hat to the Pixar film's plot but it's not allowed it to dominate the proceedings. It's simply mined its premise – which, believe it or not, involves an automobile secret agent bureau fighting against global domination – for inspiration and then applied that to the finished product.Players start the game by picking from a long list of animated cars, and then heading into a training session at Command Headquarters for Recon Operations &amp; Motorised Espionage (C.H.R.O.M.E). That is, they're put through the game's tutorial.Here, they learn how to use power-ups and how to fill their turbo meter through drifting, jumping, driving on two wheels and driving backwards. Once that's out of the way, it's time to get down to some racing.In Cars 2, events can be split between regular racing and then activities that require weapons. In the former race type, winning is easy to begin with but with each new level of race the player unlocks, they'll find that they'll need quite a bit of skill and practice to beat off all comers.Not only will they have to learn the tracks – taking note of obstacles, jumps and shortcuts – but they'll need to keep their turbo meter filled and to that end, they'll find a lot of stunt work is required.The weaponised battles are arguably the best thing about Cars 2, and it's here the second large source of inspiration becomes apparent; Mario Kart. Like Nintendo's classic racer, players need to run over power-ups on the track to pick up armaments to make their opponents' lives hell.However, in Cars 2 they'll gain access to items such as missile launchers, machine guns, oil slicks, explosive homing drones, energy weapons and more.Battle races are won or lost by a player's ability to deploy their weapons at the right moment, while keeping their turbo topped up; when the turbo meter is completely full, players can double-tap the X button to give themselves a boost and a shield, which comes in very handy if they have opponents breathing down their necks.Away from the races, players can also take part in Hunter events in which they drive around in an enclosed space, picking up power ups and blasting opponents for high scores.There are also Disruptor events, which is only available after the career mode's been clocked, which plays like a version of the capture the flag match type so prevalent in shooters. Here, players face off against each other in Hunter arenas and have to blast each other's bases to smithereens as often as they can by picking a Disruptor which spawns in different parts of the map.Cars 2 has a lengthy career mode and supports four-player drop-in/drop-out play. It doesn't have an online multiplayer, but given that this seems to be a title designed with the family in mind, that's perhaps understandable (if not entirely forgivable).Aside from that gripe, Cars 2 is a solid, exciting and fun game which should appeal to kart racing fans of all ages.• Cars 2 was reviewed on Xbox 360
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?As far as hi-tech gadgetry goes, the iPhone is a very handy and intuitive device. Having a miniature, multi-purpose computer/phone in my pocket has definitely allowed for greater flexibility and convenience in many situations.When was the last time you used it, and what for?To look up theatre locations and times for [the Woody Allen film]Midnight in Paris.What additional features would you add if you could?I would add a much longer battery life and far better reception. I also think it would be great if it had better voice recognition features. I'd love for it to better handle common tasks on verbal command, such as browsing the internet, writing emails and locating destinations.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Without a doubt. Based on the rate of innovation, I can't imagine this technology not being obsolete in 10 years.What always frustrates you about technology in general?The minute you walk out of the store with the latest gadget, there is already a newer and better version on the market. It can be difficult and frustrating to keep up with the rapid turn over rate of the latest products. We also tend to become very dependent on technology, which makes it all the more frustrating when it fails at the worst moments.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?My previous old laptop was a cumbersome, 10-pound clunker that was very unreliable and buggy. For some reason I held onto to it, cursing it for way too long before I finally upgraded to a better system.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Being patient. Waiting a few generations for a gadget to improve and it's technology to stabilise. Usually the price comes down and the developers will have had time to respond to user feedback and clean out all the bugs.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I consider myself somewhere in between, but judging by the fact that I make a living out of computer animation, I guess I'd be leaning more towards a nerd, although I don't claim to be up to date on all the most current technology.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Aside from my car, it would have to be my laptop, which is one of the better purchases I've made.Mac or PC, and why?I used to be a PC user for years, but since I bought my Mac Book Pro, I prefer Mac. I love the design and interface, it's reliable, intuitive and just plain cool. It's been a very useful and effective tool for my creative projects in addition to being a great communication device.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I usually download, but for certain items I like to buy hard media and have something tangible – especially for things like books and movies. Call me old fashioned, but I still prefer having real books as opposed to digital readers.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?That's a tricky one. Initially the thought of having droid-like contraptions rolling around, managing the household, speaking in a nice British accent, might be kind of appealing. But then I'm reminded of all the apocalyptic robot films I've seen over the years and I begin to think ... maybe not a good idea.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Living in a big city, it would be nice to have an autonomous car that not only does all the driving but most importantly, knows where it's going and can find legal parking spaces. Honestly, it'd probably be safer, more fuel efficient and reduce traffic, if cars were autonomous.•Computer animatorMaia Kayserworks forIndustrial, Light &amp; Magicin California, and was the lead animator on Rango – out on DVD and Blu-ray on 25 July
Develop Brightonis always a good place to pick up on the state of the UK games industry. With its mix of major publishers, small developers, industry veterans and hungry students, it's a melting pot of theories, concerns and unprintable insider anecdotes.Now it's over, here are 12 issues that I think symbolised the content of many conference (and after-hours drinking) sessions...1. Don't keep up with trends, keepaheadof themIn his opening keynote for the Evolve day of the conference, Andrew Wilson, the worldwide head of development at EA Sports, quoted influential economist Joseph Schumpeter who theorised that any new business model will quickly be subverted and destroyed by consumers. The companies that do well, posited Wilson, are the ones that stay ahead of this creative destruction. So don't jump on the bandwagon, run ahead of it and build your own.2. First or bestAccording to Phil Harrison, ex-head of worldwide development at Sony, the philosophy of the company during his tenure was 'first or best' – each release should either invent a new genre or be the best in an established one. While interviewing Media Molecule for Wednesday morning's keynote he said that, out of the thousands of game pitches he'd seen, the extravagantly offbeat LittleBigPlanet was easily the most memorable and exciting. In his own talk on game innovation, Mark D Green of Sony's Creative Development Group said, if you're going to occupy a crowded market at least change the theme – Dead Space is Resident Evil in space, Red Dead Redemption is GTA with cowboys. Original ideas can sometimes come from simply combining two old ones, or removing a basic tenet from an established genre.3. Games are not products anymore, they are ubiquitous servicesRemember when a publisher would release a title on a couple of platforms and then forget about it? Right, those days are over. From console DLC to endlessly iterated Facebook games, everything a developer releases these days must have a lifespan beyond the initial launch. And forget about supporting one or two devices; people expect to be able to access their favourite 'entertainment brands' on everything from their PlayStations to their Kindles, tablets and smartphones – and tomorrow it'll be their connected TVs or smart set-top boxes. If games aren't everywhere, they are nowhere. Angry Birds has seen multiple updates and is on 12 platforms. It has been downloaded 120m times.4. Social is everythingCome on, this is obvious. Facebook has 750m users, 200m of whom play Zynga games. But developers must not make the mistake of thinking that social functionality begins and ends with highscore tables and online multiplayer; social means allowing players to form communities, chat with friends and share experiences. If in doubt, connect to Facebook – in his session 'Bringing innovation to multi-platform development',Ideaworks3DCTO Tim Closs talked about how social networks are viral discovery platforms that have brought about the democratisation of content. Developers need to invite their fans into the marketing process. In the modern games industry, chatting is selling – you want chatty gamers.5. Persistence not resistanceIt might not even be bought to be on multiple platforms: the future is likely to be about persistent, connected entertainment. Closs refered to the rise of 'companion apps' like World of Warcraft'sMobile Armory, which allows fans of the PC title to access the game's auction house, manage stats and chat with friends, while on the move. He also talked about genuinely cross-platform titles like EA Scrabble which allow PC, smartphone and Facebook gamers to compete against each other. Eventually, game data may well migrate entirely onto the cloud, so that platforms become dumb terminals and games are omnipotent.6. The audience is everyoneFor years, publishers like EA and Activision have chased after, and fought over, the same 20 million players – the 'core' audience. The fanboy. But now there are an estimated 1.5 billion gamers, and most of them don't think about games in the way that the 'core' audience does. Developers who look at Farmville and scoff 'it's not even a game!' are massively missing the point. You don't get to make that call. Paulina Bozek, once one of the key members of the Singstar team has now founded a new studio,INENSU, working on two socially connected online applications: Closest Swap, which encourages users to upload images of their clothes and share items with friends, and Super Fan, a network for music and movie fanatics. Bozek didn't worry about whether Closest Swap was a game or not – she recognised that the act of dressing up and swapping clothes is inherently playful (she proved it witha cute video), and that a game layer is pretty easy to add. Her advice? Identify existing behaviours and apply technology. If people do it, enjoy it, and can talk about it with their friends, it's a game, okay?7. Consider freedomThe idea of charging upfront for digital content could well be history. During his session, Tim Closs referred to figures compiled by mobile analytics company Flurry, which revealed that 65% of revenue generated by the 100 top titles on the US App Store came from free-to-play models. In a densely crowded marketplace of ostensibly similar titles, freemium could be the only way to compete effectively. On Tuesday afternoon, Michael Acton Smith, founder of Mind Candy, told a packed audience that Moshi Monsters only really took off when he adopted the subscription model. But he stressed the importance of balancing free and paid content effectively. Moshi Monsters gives non-paying customers limited access to premium features such as Super Moshi missions and Moshling pets rather than sealing them off entirely. Every paywall needs a peephole.8. Communicate carefullyMark D Green quoted US TV Producer Steven J Cannel: "A good idea told badly sounds like a bad idea".  When pitching a game design to a publisher or investor, developers must plan it carefully, keep it short and make it as visual as possible (50% of hte human brain is dedicated to visual processing). Present a high concept, a few storyboards of key gameplay moments and, if possible, create a demo. Green (who has seen his share of pitches over the years) said don't ramble, it's boring – don't make the mistake of thinking the more you explain, the more interesting the idea is – the reverse is often true.9. Self-publishing might not be the answer"Not all publishers are dicks," said Ed Fear ofCurve Studiosduring an indie session I chaired on Thursday (you can watch ithere). For small developers working on digitally distributed games it may seem like publishers are an unnecessary incumberance, a meddling corporate presence that just wants to suck the karma out of the studio. But indie-friendly publishers like Chillingo and relative newcomerRebelPlay, as well as giants like EA and Sony, can also provide structure, support and – vitally – marketing.10. Encourage and reward gamer creativityThe 'create and share' aspects of LittleBigPlanet were not present in the original game concept, but Phil Harrison pushed for their inclusion and they came to symbolise Media Molecule's wonderful title. Once implemented, the developer expected perhaps one or two per cent of players to create and upload levels – there are now over four million user-generated creations online. People like to express themselves, so developers need to give them the chance, whether that means customisable in-game content or level design tools. And crucially, this content needs to be easily sharable – see point three. Showing off is viral distribution.11. Look outside of the games industryGame developers can be too insular, drawing inspiration from each other, from the same films and books and from the same industry legends. Studios need to look beyond Avatar and Game of Thrones. That doesn;t just go for game designs it goes for the whole approach to business and creativity. Andrew Wilson and his boss Peter Moore draw heavily from Schumpeter, Amazon and Netflix, while Mark D Green namechecked Edward de Bono,Tom KelleyandNoriaki Kano.12. Never give upMichael Acton Smith had already blown £9m of VC funding on his ambitious but failed alternative reality projectPerplex Citywhen he came up with the idea of Moshi Monsters. He used his last million to build and launch his crazy 'Tamagotchi-meets-Facebook' project, then spent months iterating it and refining the experience - to the collective indifference of the marketplace. Moshi Monsters now has 50 million subscribers. Most developers don't have a million to start up with, of course, but the message is, failure happens – just learn from it and move on. Fast. "One of the best things about being tiny is that you can develop an idea quite fast," said Kareem Ettouney of Media Molecule during his keynote. "If you have a bad week, you can turn it around quickly, you can iterate immediately."At theIndieCityworkshop on Wednesday, Adam Sawkins of ProjectorGames was telling potential indie developers that he completed ten games before his first big hit, the Xbox Indie Game,FortressCraft, which was recently the first XBIG title to make over a million dollars in revenue. Alongside perserverance, his advice is, work hard: "Any time I have a spare moment, I'll be programming; I used to have a little PDA and when I was on the train I'd sit and code. A lot of developers don't realise that they'll have to put in hundreds and hundreds of hours of effort to create a good game..."
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamScoble: Twitter Is A Mess, And Jack Needs To Fix It Fast &gt;&gt; Business Insider"When was the last time Twitter introduced a killer feature? Photos? We still don't even know how those are supposed to work. And, for what it's worth, we see the company's founders using Instagram a lot, so there's obviously something busted with Twitter's photos."Google Tried To Buy Color For $200 Million. Color Said No. &gt;&gt; TechCrunchArrington says Color should have taken the deal.The iPad's Dominance of the Tablet Market &gt;&gt; Daring FireballSays Gruber: "I'm not trying to cherry-pick data. I'm simply observing, based on Apple's sales data and Google's activation data, that the tablet market doesn't today look anything like the smartphone market ever did. The iPad didn't enter the tablet market. It created the tablet market. The iPad's role in the tablet market much more closely resembles the iPod's role in the digital music player market a decade ago than it does the iPhone's role in the 2008 phone market."Google Rejected Sun $100M Java-Android Deal &gt;&gt; BloombergSeparately, Oracle won permission to question Larry Page about his knowledge of the Google's alleged infringement of patents that Oracle got when it acquired Sun. Grab the popcorn.Judge criticizes Google and Oracle at hearing &gt;&gt; ReutersBoth Oracle and Google have taken unreasonable positions on the scale of damages involved in a high stakes patent battle over the Android operating system, a U.S. judge said in court."You're both asking for the moon and you should be more reasonable," U.S. District Judge William Alsup said in a testy hearing on Thursday.An open letter to Google+ &gt;&gt; Danny SullivanOuch. Search Engine Land chief tells it like it his: "For one, you know that Twitter and Facebook both support brands, and that there would obviously be demand for this here. You failed to implement that support. Bad on you."Report: Microsoft worldwide tablet operating-system share at 5%, PlayBook 3.3% &gt;&gt; ZDNet"According to numbers released on June 21 by Boston-based research firm Strategy Analytics, global tablet shipments reached 15m units in the second quarter of 2011. Apple maintained first position with 61% share -- down substantially from 94% a year earlier. Tablets running Android, meanwhile, zoomed to 30% operating system share from 3% in the year-ago second quarter."Note that this is shipments, not sales. As Mary Jo Foley points out, just because it's shipped doesn't mean it's left a retailer's shelves.Fujitsu Introduces Windows® 7 F-07C Mobile Phone &gt;&gt; Fujitsu Global"Fujitsu today announced that the new Windows® 7 F-07C mobile phone will be available in Japan from NTT DOCOMO, Inc. beginning July 23, 2011."The F-07C mobile phone, featuring Windows® 7(1), is the world's smallest PC(2) that fits into the palm of the user's hand."F-07C comes standard with a two-year license for Microsoft® Office Personal 2010-an essential business tool-and other basic PC functionality, in addition to convenient mobile phone features such as Osaifu-Keitai. By combining both PC and mobile phone functionality, F-07C opens the door to a range of new uses."Includes pictures. (Go on, have a look.) You will require heroic eyesight and fingers made of pinheads to use one of these. Atom processor (natch). Claimed battery life: "~2 hours in Windows 7 mode." We'd like to see that.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Friday – what are your gaming plans for the weekend?
Microsoft exceeded analyst earnings estimates in its fourth quarter to the end of June, helped by strong sales of its Office software and Xbox console - but its shares fell on concerns about soft PC sales reducing demand for its Windows product.The company saw record fourth-quarter revenues of $17.4bn and profits of $6.2bn, up 8% and 4% respectively, although the figures mean that it was eclipsed for the second quarter in a row by Apple.It follows Apple, Google and IBM in reporting unexpectedly good results as technology spending appears to be holding up well in otherwise uncertain economies in the US and Europe.Losses at Microsoft's online services division, which includes its Bing search engine, continued to deepen: it lost $728m on revenues of just $662m – compared to $688m losses on revenues of $568m a year ago – indicating that attempts to sign new search partners are costing it dearly, while efforts to push cloud computing – part of the same division – continue to require huge investment.Analysts also pointed to a slowdown in revenues at its Windows division, which sells licences for PCs. Revenue dropped by 1% year-on-year to $4.7bn – despite PC sales having risen by nearly 2% – and profits fell 4% to $2.9bn. It was the second consecutive quarter in which Windows revenues and profits declined on a yearly basis."It kind of jumped out at me that the Windows and Windows Live division didn't particularly grow this quarter even though we know from Intel yesterday that the number of PCs shipped in the quarter grew 1%," said Kim Caughey Forrest, senior analyst at fund manager Fort Pitt Capital.The Entertainment and Devices division, which produces the Xbox games console and licences the new Windows Phone platform, edged $32m profit, a substantial improvement on losses of $172m a year ago, but marking a two-quarter sequential decline. Revenues at the division were up 30% to $1.5bn.However analysts had been expecting far lower figures for the company. The stock is up just 8% over the past 12 months, compared to a 30% rise in the Nasdaq composite index.
A self-styled digital Robin Hood downloaded more than 4 million academic articles before being tracked down by US authorities in a case that promises to become a cause célèbre for data use and freedom of information.A grand jury in Massachusetts has indictedAaron Swartz, a 24-year-old programmer and fellow at Harvard University's Safra Centre for Ethics, on charges of wire and computer fraud for his marathon downloading spree.Theindictment also allegesthat Swartz caused damage of at least $5,000 (£3,000) to computers and unlawfully obtained information over more than three months while he was copying the huge cache of articles from the database ofJstor, the giant US-based online academic repository.Starting with a standard Acer laptop, Swartz began by using anonymous log-ins on the network of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in September 2010. As the size of his downloads began to alarm MIT and Jstor staff they kept trying to block Swartz's access – only for the 24-year-old to evade their attempts using simple techniques to disguise his log ins and mask his computer.In desperation, Jstor eventually blocked the entire MIT network from access to its vast database for several days in October 2010 – cutting off one of the world's premier research universities from the millions of scientific journals and academic articles Jstor holds.But even then, the talented coder is alleged to have bypassed them completely by entering a restricted network interface room on MIT's campus and wiring his equipment directly to its network.According to the indictment, at one point Swartz's downloads were bringing down some of Jstor's servers: "This was more than 100 times the number of downloads during the same period by all the legitimate MIT Jstor users combined.If convicted Swartz faces maximum jail terms of 35 years and possible fines of up to $1m. Swartz appeared in court on Wednesday and was released on bail of $100,000.Harvard University said it had placed Swartz on leave for the remainder of his fellowship.Swartz is a well-known digital activist, the founder of online group Demand Progress and for being a brilliant programmer. His arrest set off a war of metaphors between the federal authorities and his supporters over what it is exactly that Swartz planned to do with the trove of 4.8m articles.The indictment filed in the US district court in Massachusetts said: "Swartz intended to distribute a significant portion of Jstor's archive of digitised journal articles through one of more filesharing sites."US attorney Carmen Ortiz said: "Stealing is stealing, whether you use a computer command or a crowbar, and whether you take documents, data or dollars. It is equally harmful to the victim whether you sell what you have stolen or give it away."Swartz's defenders correctly reply that copying files – especially from publicly available research databases – cannot be equated with stealing."It's like trying to put someone in jail for allegedly checking too many books out of the library," said David Segal, the executive director of Demand Progress, ina statement after Swartz was charged.According to Demand Progress, MIT has already reached a settlement with Swartz, while Jstor said: "We secured from Mr Swartz the content that was taken, and received confirmation that the content was not and would not be used, copied, transferred, or distributed."That has left some observers puzzled as to why the federal prosecutors have gone ahead with the case, especially as Jstor – the most obvious victim in the affair –publicly announced: "Our interest was in securing the content. Once this was achieved, we had no interest in this becoming an ongoing legal matter."The other mystery is what Swartz may have been planning to do with the huge cache of PDF documents.In 2009, Swartzattracted the attention of the FBIafter he legally downloaded about 20m pages of court documents from the federal judiciary and distributed them free across the internet.Demand Progresslaunched an online petitionbacking Swartz and received more than 40,000 messages of support.
We know Google'sfinancial resultswere impressively stellar last week (maybe not asstellar as Apple, but leave them as a thing apart for a moment) with that record-breaking $9bn revenue figure for the second quarter of the year.We know that 97% of that revenue is generated by advertising, but what kind of advertising?If you wondered where Google gets all that money from – it seems the answer is mostly the financial services sector. Searches for 'cheapest homeowner loans' or 'remortgage with bad credit' can bring in up to $50 per click for the search giant.That's $50 per click– so not necessarily even a web user who goes on to be a customer.An analysis by internet marketing specialistsWordStreamhas identified the top 20 industry sectors for the most popular keyword ads on Google searches with intriguing results.However radical and technically innovative Google might want its public profile to be, it's the plain old insurance industry that accounts, by these calculations, for a whopping 24% of the top 10,000 keywords – and pays an estimated $54.91 per click for the most competitive keywords. Loans come in second at 12.8% with a top cost-per-click of $44.28, and mortgages 9% and $47.12. As WordStream's Larry Kim wrote in a blog post, it's because "these industries can afford to pay a lot to acquire a new customer".Infographic reproduced with permission of WordStream. © 2011WordStream Inc.
Some interesting points arising from Apple's third-quarter (its financial year starts in September) results and its Lion release and its release of new computers the other day, and wider trends in computer sales:Apple stuff• iPads (9.2m) exceeded Macs (3.95m) for the fourth quarter in a row - and they're now more than double the number sold.• if you describe iPads as "PCs" (Steve Ballmer does, but you may disagree) then Apple would be the second-largest PC vendor in the world (behind HP, whichshipped 14.9m units in Q2according to Gartner.• However, it probably doesn't make sense to define an iPad as a "PC". The whole tablet class is intended for a different sort of computing; the HP TouchPad certainly positions itself as an enterprise device (something that's been repeatedly emphasised to me by its executives) but the sort of work you do with it fits into places where laptops and desktops don't easily go.• The new Mac mini released on Wednesday doesn't have an optical (CD or DVD) drive.• The new MacBook Airs released on Wednesday don't have an optical drive.• The low-end MacBook is being phased out.• The new MacBook Airs only use Flash (SSD) drives. They're smaller, but they're much quicker than hard drives.• Lion is being made available as a download for $29 in the US (£21 in the UK) or you can get it on a USB key for $69.• Lion is much more like a tablet operating system than previous versions of OSX. Not surprising, since Snow Leopard came out before the iPad OS had been completed.•Lion has an "internet recovery" systemwhere if the hard drive of your machine needs repair, you can reboot from the internet. You'll need broadband, but it's available in lots of places. This won't help if your hard drive crashes, but it's certainly useful.PC sales• If you strip out Apple's Macintosh sales from the worldwide PC market, a total of 81.2m (Gartner) or 80.4 (IDC) Windows PCs were sold in the quarter. I'll take that as being near enough accuracy if you compare it tomy analysis of Microsoft's "more than 400m Windows 7 licences"sold, where I offered 80m PCs as the figure (because obviously Microsoft doesn't get a licence on Macintosh shipments).• That's a year-on-year growth of Windows PCs of just 1.8%; and that growth is only visible because PC sales in the Asia-Pacific region grew at quite a clip, of 9% of so. The picture in the US and western Europe is of contraction in Windows PC sales. (I'm adding that qualification because Apple, once more, grew faster than the rest of the market - by 11.9%, or nearly ten times faster - for the 16th successive quarter. It's coming from a very low base, but it's still an interesting fact which must point to a "halo effect" from the success of the iPhone and, more recently, iPad.)• Microsoft is looking towards tablets and other devices too: itsambitious "one ecosystem"plan seems oriented towards a world where you might use your desktop PC... or you might not. You might be on a tablet. For Microsoft, it's the only way forward.Given all that... you can see a few things. PC sales in the west, where they first penetrated, really look like they've peaked. Corporations replacing older systems have been driving sales along, but consumers are holding back. Partly this is going to be because of the economic outlook: people in the US and Europe don't have any particular reason to splash out at present, since the forecast isn't exactly rosy, with theUS struggling with its debt ceilingand theEurozone facing a meltdown.But the risk is that by the time those two crises have sorted themselves out and the US and Europe are back to "normal" growth (whatever that looks like in the future), computing trends will have morphed. Apple tends to lead the computing industry to places that it could already go, but isn't quite brave enough to move into: abandoning floppy drives with the iMac, and putting Wi-Fi into laptops. (True, Dell was first with Wi-Fi in laptops, but it didn't push them out across half its laptop line, as Apple did with the original iBook.)Now Apple is saying that the future is no optical drives, no hard drives (Flash instead) and internet boots. Lots of the computing future might not look like the computing past. Are desktop PCs really the right way for children to first learn interaction with computers at primary schools? Does everyone in a business need a desktop or laptop?Yes, you could certainly argue that tablets are just a fad like netbooks. (And look where netbooks are going: sales are way down.) But Microsoft doesn't seem to be thinking that; it seems to think tablets (as slates or "convertible" tablets with keyboards) will be an important segment.Apple, meanwhile, thinks all connections will be to the cloud. Google agrees, with its ChromeOS, which is entirely cloud-based (though with some offline working promised.) Which also offers a hint on when you're going to see Blu-ray drives in Apple Macs. Yes, they're all over the place in Windows laptops. But it looks they'll never come to Apple machines. Instead, Apple is pointing towards downloads as the way it sees things in the future.And if you think that's just Apple, consider this question: do you think those Windows 8 tablets that we're all being led to expect sometime from late 2012 will include bulky DVD or Blu-ray hard drives? And do you think they'll have spinning hard drives, or SSDs? The answer is pretty obvious.Microsoft reports its results on Thursday night. Watch for what it says about PC sales. (The transcript is usually onSeeking Alphathe next morning UK time.)Go on - predict how computing will look in five years' time. Five years ago there were no iPads, no netbooks, barely any SSDs, and you could still get floppy drives, but it was hard to get a Blu-ray drive. How about 2016? How does that look to you?
Could you recommend a netbook or slate computer that has built in GPS for offshore navigation? The boat already has a Garmin GPS giving position and speed only: no charting. I need the PC to run OpenCPN with a selection of nautical charts, but also have a good battery life and a reasonably quick battery charge time.Paul O' DonovanThere are quite a few Windows PCs and slates with GPS (Global Positioning Satellite) chips built in, but these are mostly aimed at the commercial and industrial markets, and they are often ruggedised. Examples include Panasonic Toughbooks such as the CF-U1 or CF-H2.Typical users include field workers and service technicians, health services, police forces and the military. However, you can get better value by buying a standard PC or netbook and adding a GPS either on a Mini-PCI Express card such as theSierra Wireless MC8781, or via a dongle that fits a USB slot, such as theNavisysmodels. In fact, if your Garmin GPS receiver can outputNMEA 0183data, you should be able to connect that to a PC. (NMEA is the National Marine Electronics Association.)Either way, theGlobalSat BU-353 WaterProof USB GPS Receiver (SiRF Star III)looks like the sort of thing you need. It's small, waterproof, has a magnetic mounting and comes with a 5ft cable, so you can position it where it will get a good signal while using the PC in a more sheltered position. Performance should be much better than the sort of GPS typically built into mobile phones and media tablets, often to meet America'sE911 laws.When it comes to choosing a PC, you will have to find the right balance between screen size, speed, battery life and price. The cheapest option is a netbook such as Asus Eee PC 1015PX, which has a 10.1in screen and a 1.5GHz Intel Atom N570. I'd suggest limiting your netbook hunt to the N550 and N570 as these are both dual-core Atoms with low power requirements. If you are willing to trade performance for battery life, look at netbooks with single-core N270, N280, or Z530/Z540/Z550 chips instead.The drawbacks with netbooks may include limited 1GB memory, the use of Windows 7 Starter, and limited screen resolutions. You can easily upgrade the memory to 2GB for about £14. You can easily do an in-place upgrade to Windows 7 Home Premium, if you need to, or you could install a free version of Linux alongside it. However, you can't fix the 1024 x 600 screen resolution, which might be a bit cramped for charts and maps. It will cost more to buy something with a standard 1366 x 768 pixel screen.If buying a laptop instead of a netbook, the best compromise for price/performance/battery life is the 1.33GHz Intel Core i3-380UM, where the UM designates an ultra-low-power-consumption version of the mobile processor. Typical models include the Acer Aspire TimelineX 1830T, Lenovo ThinkPad Edge 11 (NVY5FUK), and the touch-screen Fujitsu Lifebook T580. If you want something cheaper, a laptop based on the older Intel Core 2 Duo S9300 or similar chip would do. If you want something faster, then there are several Core i5 options such as the 1.3GHz i5-560UM and 470UM. There are also some new Ivy Bridge Core iX processors on the way in Ultrabooks such as the Asus UX21 and UX31. These use smaller, faster versions of the current Sandy Bridge chips.Lots of PCs now claim a battery life of six hours to about 11 hours (with Wi-Fi and Bluetooth turned off), and you can double that just by buying a spare battery. Put the PC into hibernation and you can swap the batteries in 15 seconds or less. However, bear in mind that battery performance decays with use, and after a couple of years, your eight-hour battery could be flat in less than half the time.You can run OpenCPN on a Windows or Linux PC or a Mac, so you could also consider a MacBook Air, if it also runs other software you need. However, you may also want to use alternative charting systems such asMaptech's Chart Navigator ProorMemory Map, which are not available for Mac OS X.Another alternative would be an Apple iPad 2, because the GPS version includes a tinyBroadcom BCM4750GPS chip "designed to interface with host processors in mobile phones, PDAs, personal navigation devices, and MP3 players". (That is, it uses the device's processor and memory to do most of the work.)I suspect that the open source OpenCPN won't run on the iPad because it would have to be completely rewritten in Objective C. However, you could useiNavXon an iPad, assuming you can get charts that you like. The web page says that you can't use the charts you have on your PC: "iNavX downloads charts directly from a chart server, however many of the charts and maps available atx-traversecan also be used on a PC or Mac." X-traverse offers Navionics 28XG UK – Ireland – Holland – iPad – 2011 edition for $68.99.Also, if you have Memory-Map on a PC, you can send maps to an Apple iPhone or iPad, if you buy the corresponding app. Memory-Map is based in the UK and offersUK &amp; Ireland Marine charts. It is now developing an Android app.There are also someNavionics maps for Androidthat work without an active internet connection. Obviously you have to avoid GPS-based systems that download maps on the fly, because you generally won't have an internet connection.GPS has yet to become ubiquitous. However, it seems to me that the toughening up of E911 location requirements and the arrival of cheapish chips like the Broadcom BCM4750 will lead to GPS appearing in many more gadgets, and probably in most devices that have a mobile phone connection. Eventually, most 3G dongles could include GPS as well.
The Lulzsec hacking group,which this week claimed to have obtained 4GB of emails taken from the Sun's servers, has decided not to publish them for fear of jeopardising ongoing legal actions in the UK and US.However, an expert in email security procedures has warned the Guardian that the hack itself could undermine ongoing legal cases.In a tweet sent from the @anonymousIRC account, which has 124,000 followers, a spokesman for the group said: "We think, actually we may not release emails from the Sun, simply because it may compromise the court case."This may not be enough to prevent News Corporation, parent company of Sun publisher News International, challenging the admissibility of email evidence in future court cases, according to one information security professional."Post-Enron, new US laws were passed requiring all corporations to keep immutable email archives for legal compliance purposes. These are often provided by independent third parties," he said."Depending on whether Lulzsec got their material from this archive, rather than an old News International server, it's possible News Corporation will be able to argue their email archive can't be trusted in court as it's been compromised."The claimed email cache is said to have been obtained aftera hacking attack against News International on Tuesday nightduring which members of LulzSec apparently broke into computer systems there and redirected readers of the Sun's website to a faked page claiming News Corp chief executive Rupert Murdoch had been found dead.Different members of the wider Anonymous hacking collective claimed the emails were taken from a seperate hack of News International's offsite backup centre in India. Establishing from exactly which server – if any – emails were obtained could prove crucial to keeping email admissable in a future court case.Some accounts belonging to Anonymous also began tweeting email addresses and passwords for staff at News International, including what seemed to be an email account and password for Rebekah Brooks under her previous married name of Wade while at the Sun.The password appeared to be valid based on the contents of the tweet, which included the encrypted form of the password.News International reacted by closing down all external access to its webmail systemsand forcing users to reset their passwords.The company declined to comment at the time on whether the hackers might have had external access to email accounts, but the fact that it shut down the access suggests that it feared they might.Equally, the hackers almost certainly would not have begun tweeting details of their find without having first exploited it.Contacts within Anonymous have told Guardian journalists that News International's email systems were being probed last week and that downloads were being made then.Lulzsec said they would now seek to release extracts of the emails they collected through media outlets."We're currently working with certain media outlets who have been granted exclusive access to some of the News of the World emails we have," said a tweet from the official @Lulzsec feed.In a separate development, the legal firm that Rupert Murdoch accused of making a "major mistake" in its part in the internal investigation into phone hacking is to be called before a parliamentary select committee to defend itself against allegations that it helped "cover up" the scandal.The culture, media, and sport committee, which grilled the Murdochs, is to write to Harbottle &amp; Lewis, asking it to appear when hearings resume. Paul Farrelly, one of the MPs on the committee, said they "stand right up there with all the other people who have come to us and maintained there was only one rogue reporter."He said a letter written by the law firm in 2007 to NI concerning a review of internal News of the World emails was now "clearly misleading".
The Finnish phone-maker Nokia crashed to a loss for the second quarter as its smartphone and mobile business collapsed, leaving it in third place in the sector behind Samsung and Apple, and with no clear sign of any improvement in the short term.Overall the company made a loss of €368m despite receiving a one-off payment of €430m from Apple to settle a long-running patent dispute. Revenues fell overall by 7% to €9.3bn.The company's mobile revenue, normally the stalwart of its business, fell by 20% year on year to €5.47bn and made a loss of €247m, as the number of phones sold dropped by the same amount, to 88m – both figures not seen since 2006. Its existing Symbian smartphone business, which it has said that it will phase out in favour of phones using Microsoft Windows Phone from later this year, fell by 30% year on year to just 16.7m.The Navteq mapping and Nokia Siemens Network (NSN) businesses offered no comfort either, both racking up operating losses of €58m and €111m respectively, although sales at NSN were up by 20%.Stephen Elop, the former Microsoft executive who took over as chief executive last September, said in a statement: "The challenges we are facing during our strategic transformation manifested in a greater than expected way in Q2 2011. However, even within the quarter, I believe our actions to mitigate the impact of these challenges have started to have a positive impact on the underlying health of our business. Most importantly, we are making better-than-expected progress toward our strategic goals."But Francisco Jeronimo, research manager for European mobile devices at the analysts IDC, warned that Nokia risks missing out on a window of opportunity as more and more people switch over to smartphones from older "featurephones": "I think it will take at least two or three quarters after the launch of Nokia Windows Phone devices before they get positive results. That takes you to March of next year. But consumers are moving to smartphones, and it will be very hard for Nokia to get them if they have just signed up to two-year contracts using an Android, iPhone or other smartphone." Already more than 50% of mobile phone shipments in the US and Europe are smartphones, and 30% of mobile users in the US and 38% in the UK are already using them.Elop's forecast for the next quarter remained around breakeven – but Elop admitted there was "limited visibility" on it. He said he was "optimistic" about the Windows Phone potential in the long term. "Step by step, beginning this year, we plan to have a sequence of concentrated product launches in specific countries, systematically increasing the number of countries and launch partners."Nokia's shares moved up in early trading by about 4%, to trade at about €5.80, because analysts had expected worse – but the shares have almost halved in value since February, when Elop announced the tieup with Microsoft – which coincidentally will announce its fourth-quarter earnings on Thursday evening."It is a glimmer of hope in an overall very gloomy picture," said Angus Campbell, head of sales at Capital Spreads. "The picture for Nokia is difficult – it is competing in an incredible competitive environment and their smartphones are not as popular, against Apple's iphone and Google's Android."Nokia needs to take quick action to develop new products or it will continue to lose ground to its rivals, said Neil Mawston of London-based Strategy Analytics. "Pretty much everything is heading in the wrong direction," Mawston said. "Nokia has to move with lightning speed to upgrade their portfolio."The results contrast spectacularly with Apple's from Tuesday, when it said that it had sold more than 20.3m iPhones during the quarter even though there was no new model to spur sales; the iPhone has not been updated since June 2010. Apple's sales from the iPhone alone, totalling $13.3bn (€9.4bn), mean that Apple's mobile phone business generated almost twice the revenue of Nokia's in the same period.Samsung will release quarterly earnings next week that are expected to show that it took the lead in the smartphone market, and may have beaten Nokia to the title.Smartphones running Google's free Android operating system now make up the largest share of the top-end devices, with about 36% of the market. Apple's latest sales figures suggest that it has grabbed about 20% of the global smartphone market, while Android is expected to have grown to around 40% of the business.Nokia dominated the mobile phone business for almost two decades, and for years had the majority section of the valuable smartphone market. But the introduction of the iPhone in 2007, followed by the arrival of Google's Android operating system in 2008, has eroded its share and profits substantially.Elop could point to some success in having driven Apple to a settlement over a patent dispute settled during the quarter, leading to the one-off payment without which the results would have been even worse. Apple will continue to pay a royalty on some patents belonging to Nokia.
The solicitors' regulator is poised to investigate claims that the apparently-dissolved London law firm behind a huge row over internet piracy has resurfaced to target Greek web users.ACS:Lawceased trading in Januaryafter 27 people it accused of illegal filesharing demanded damages. Andrew Crossley, the lone-solicitor behind ACS Law, declared his bankruptcy and dissolved his firm days before a London court was due to rule on the payments.However, the firm apparently resurfaced in June to demand thousands of pounds from Greek web users it accuses of illegally downloading films and music.Update:Crossley hasdenied to PCProthat he is behind the new letters.In one letter seen by the Guardian (and embedded below), 'ACS:Law' demands immediate payment of £1,665 which it says is to "avoid legal action".Michael Forrester, a solicitor representing some British net users accused by ACS:Law, said the recipients did not know how their email addresses had been obtained and deny infringing copyright."Normally an internet service provider would not release their customers' contact details without a court order. We have no information about a relevant court order in these cases," he said."It is also unclear how the firm ACS:Law is continuing to operate, despite purporting to close earlier this year and the sole principal recently being made bankrupt. We have advised clients that we may be dealing with an imposter."The Guardian has confirmed that the address attributed to ACS:Law on the letters, 18 Hanover Square, does not exist. That building was the only Hanover Square address demolished last year as part of construction work on a new Bond Street station.The Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA), the legal watchdog investigating ACS:Law after hundreds of those accused claimed to have been wrongly identified, said on Thursday it had informed its risk assessment division, which will decide whether to investigate the letters.A spokesman for the SRA said: "According to our records, ACS:Law ceased on 3 February 2011. Andrew Crossley is due to face the Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal, which is likely to be later this year."Mr Crossley is not recorded as practising anywhere at present."It is thought unlikely that Crossley is behind the new claims. The solicitor claimed he was quitting suits against illegal filesharers in February because death threats had caused an "immense hassle" to his family".ACS:Law wasaccused by a senior judge in April of breaching the solicitors' code of conductwith its method of accusing tens of thousands of people of illegal filesharing.The firm apparently recouped hundreds of thousands of pounds from "speculatively invoicing" British internet users, accusing them of unlawfully downloading porn, films and music.Crossley abandoned the London court trial in February before he was due to bring evidence of illegal downloading.Crossley and ACS:Law could not be reached for comment at time of publication.
Twitter's not-so-new-anymore chief executive Dick Costolo has been charged with fully commercialising the company since he took over in October last year, but beyond tightening up on third-party services it doesn't seem much clearer how the service will make money.So far Twitter has introduced promoted tweets (roughly comparable to Google's sponsored search results) and in-stream adverts seem just a sniff away - though Twitter will have to be very clever not to trigger a fresh wave of protest from users when those get rolled out.Photo byFortune Live Mediaon Flickr.Some rights reservedPromoted tweets rolled out in April 2010, adding paid-for promotional tweets to the 'dickbar' at the top of the official Twitter apps and also at the top of search results. Promoted trends andpromoted accountsfollowed suit.But there's at least one more iron in that fire. Speaking at the Fortune Brainstorm conference in Aspen yesterday, Costolo gave two clear examples of how Twitter could take a cut of sales generated by promotion on Twitter."There's a commerce opportunity there for us to take advantage of if we want," he says."When the Google IO conference was taking place, they tweeted the morning of the opening of the conference, 'Hey, you know, 100 tickets left, 550 bucks a piece, use this promotion code,' and then I think 11 minutes later tweeted, 'Sold them, thank you,' you know, $55,000 with one tweet in 13 minutes.""The San Diego Chargers tweeted on a Saturday afternoon, 'We need to sell a thousand more tickets so the blackout can be lifted in San Diego tomorrow,' and 40 minutes later tweeted -- or I think 40 minutes later or so tweeted, 'Sold those'."Costolo confirmed that Twitter is developing a self-serve system for ads, just like Google and Facebook, which would let advertisers on any scale build and roll out their own ads through the Twitter API.Engagement rates 'up to 50%'"Our engagement rates are through the roof," said Costolo. "We are seeing ads literally with click-through rates and engagement rates of 30, 40, 50%.  I think the highest one of all time was Volkswagen ran a promoted tweet for their new VW Beetle that actually had an engagement rate, where an engagement is a click, a reply or a retweet, of 52%"Costolo had also prepared some statistics: a billion tweets are sent every five days, Twitter has seen 160% mobile growth in the past year and the number of advertisers has increased six fold to around 600 this year.In an interview withAdWeeklast month, Twitter president of global revenue Adam Bain explained how this would work, extending the existing control dashboard that shows the response to each tweet in a campaign and breaks down the demographics of followers.Details are still scarce though, particularly on the user experience of all this. How will Twitter moderate the flow of ads so that users aren't bombarded? And could users pay a premium for an ad-free experience? I know I would, though it's unlikely Twitter will go down the freemium route as their advertising offering demands building audience as much as possible. (I'd pay at least £10 per month for a premium Twitter account.)Twitter - worth $8bn?As Costolo also pointed out, however, Twitter is a private company and quite at liberty to keep its strategic commercial plans under wraps. But whatever Costolo is telling the investors appears to be working;AllThingsDreports that Twitter is about to close a new $800m funding round that values the firm at $8bn.Investors include JP Morgan's growth fund and Russian Facebook-backer DST Global, but this deal doubles the valuation that Twitter had just seven months ago when Kleiner Perkins invested $200m. Its revenues are estimated to be around $200m annually - coincidentally the same as the number of user accounts.
Sony Music, the music major behind Simon Cowell, on Thursday appointed Nick Gatfield – a former member of Dexy's Midnight Runners – to take over its British operations in place of Ged Doherty.The sudden switch at the number two record group comes just three weeks after Doug Morris took the helm at Sony Music worldwide – and brings together two men who previously worked together at Sony's principal rival Universal.Doherty left Sony suddenly on Wednesday, along with Richard Sanders, the head of Sony Music Interational, based out of New York. This decision reflects a desire by Morris to bring in his team into Sony Music, a company characterised by powerful but competing executives, some of whose divisions date back to the era of the joint venture with BMG.Gatfield's key job at Sony Music will be to maintain healthy relationships with Simon Cowell, whose UK office is in Sony's West London headquarters. Sony Music also has a 50% interest in Cowell's key business vehicle, Syco.Industry veteran Gatfield had ran Universal's Island record group in the UK between 2001 and 2008, where labels under his control were responsible for the likes of Amy Winehouse and Mika – during which time Morris was ultimately in charge of Universal in New York.The Briton left Universal after being passed over for the top job in the UK, which went instead to David Joseph, an ally of Lucian Grainge. Grainge became the chief executive of Universal Music worldwide, after Universal's French owners Vivendi pushed a reluctant Morris upstairs to become chairman.Morris responded by quitting and moving to Sony Music, setting the stage for a period of intense rivalry between the the two leading music groups.After leaving Universal, Gatfield was recruited to be EMI's top music executive worldwide. For two difficult years from 2008 EMI enjoyed a mini-revivial, with Tinie Tempah and Swedish House Mafia joining the debt-laden music giant.Eventually, amid ceaseless corporate uncertainty, Gatfield left in 2010 – and moved to a noticeably more junior role at Sony in February of this year, running its UK labels.More significantly, arguably, Gatfield played on both the saxophone and the keyboard for Dexy's Midnight Runners from 1982 to 1985, including the perennial wedding playlist favourite Come On Eileen.Morris said: "Nick is an accomplished music executive with a successful A&amp;R background, strong senior management experience" before adding that he had "a special understanding of the artist community being a former recording artist himself".
A fascinating discovery by 27-year-old Americanabirdabroad, who works for a public health organisation in the rapidly developing city of Kunming, southern China. After a few months away, she knew her neighbourhood would have changed pretty fast and she was right, with three Starbucks, an H&amp;M and, seemingly, three Apple stores popping up while she was away.One of three fake Apple stores in Kunming, China. Photo:birdabroad, used with permissionGrey slate floors, steel staircases, wood benches and staff in branded blue t-shirts. Everything appears routinely Apple. But look more closely and some of the branding is a little off (Apple doesn't write 'Apple Stoer' [sic] under its logo) and the staff badges didn't have individual names. Those staff did, after a little gentle interrogation, appear to think they were working for the real Apple. But otherwise an astonishing piece of extreme bootlegging.Our intrepid blogger was suspicious; although Kunming is typical of China's rapid development it is relatively remote. She looked up Apple's official China site and lo - Apple has onlyfour stores in China, two of which are in Beijing and two in Shanghai."Being the curious types that we are, we struck up some conversation with these salespeople who, hand to God, all genuinely think they work for Apple,"she wrote."I tried to imagine the training that they went to when they were hired, in which they were pitched some big speech about how they were working for this innovative, global company – when really they're just filling the pockets of some shyster living in a prefab mansion outside the city by standing around a fake store disinterestedly selling what may or may not be actual Apple products that fell off the back of a truck somewhere."That's an interesting point - whether the owners of this store had wholesaled genuine Apple products or, as seems more likely, were selling fake products too. Either way you can be sure that Apple's brand protection team is already rolling out the big guns. This fake Apple store clearly took a significant investment, which means there must be serious money to be made by trading off the Apple brand. And Apple will expect to reap every penny of that itself. After all, it has thosesky-rocketing revenuesto protect.• Update:The Wall Street Journalhas managed to speak to one of the store employees by phone, who said theyareaware that the store isn't official but that the productsareauthentic. "It doesn't make much of a difference for us whether we're authorised or not," he said. "I just care that what I sell every day are authentic Apple products, and that our customers don't come back to me to complain about the quality of the products." WSJ suggested that the store could apply to become an authorised reseller, but it's questionable whether Apple would grant that given such a flagrant attempt to pass itself off as the genuine thing.• We asked Apple for any comment on whether it had started investigating these stores: it declined to comment.• Another update:the BBC has reportedthat authorities have moved to shut some fake Apple stores down.All photos:birdabroad. Used with permission
One of the members of the LulzSec hacking grouphas claimed on Twitterthat the group has got 4GB of emails taken from the Sun and the "royal family" which may be released as soon as lunchtime on Thursday.The claim followsa hacking attack against News International on Tuesday nightduring which members of LulzSec apparently broke into computer systems there and redirected readers of the Sun's website to a faked page claiming News Corp chief executive Rupert Murdoch had been found dead.Significantly, the group also seems to have broken into the email database at News International.Some accounts belonging to Anonymous also began tweeting email addresses and passwords for staff at News International, including what seemed to be an email account and password for Rebekah Brooks under her previous married name of Wade while at the Sun.The password appeared to be valid based on the contents of the tweet, which included the encrypted form of the password.News International reactedby closing down all external access to its webmail systemsand forcing users to reset their passwords.The company declined to comment at the time on whether the hackers might have had external access to email accounts, but the fact that it shut down the access suggests that it feared they might.Equally, the hackers almost certainly would not have begun tweeting details of their find without having first exploited it.Contacts within Anonymous have told Guardian journalists that News International's email systems were being probed last week and that downloads were being made then.
A burst of 15 apps for your considerationPixies OfficialAlternative legends Pixies have their own iPhone app, which offers much more than simply news and tweets. There's a free stream of their Purple Tape album, as well as a download of their 2004 Coachella festival set, and on-demand streams of other gigs from the band's career. The app includes gamified features to earn badges, and it ties in to Foursquare, Facebook and Twitter too. Topspin Media and Mobile Roadie are the companies responsible.iPhoneBjörk: BiophiliaBjork's long-trailed Biophilia app for iPhone and iPad is now out, with one song from the album available as an in-app purchase of £1.49, and ten more to come. The first, Crystalline, includes a tunnel-racing game. You can read more about the app inthis article.iPhone / iPadSid Meier's Pirates! for iPadGamers of a certain age will be jumping into their Barque and setting sail to plunder Trinidad, thanks to the iPad port of the marvellous Pirates. It's a faithful conversion of the more recent console editions of the game, with new controls for the touchscreen.iPadAmir Khan MobileBoxer Amir Khan has his own iPhone app, courtesy of developer Addictive Mobility. It serves up training videos, photos and news, along with a one-level preview of Amir's official boxing game, and a trivia quiz.iPhoneSyfy for iPadThis iPad app is only available in the US, since it's for sci-fi TV channel Syfy. The app offers videos, photos and episode guides, pulls in tweets from stars and creators of shows, and uses the Getglue social service to allow Syfy viewers to check in to individual programmes while watching on another screen.iPadPEGIPan-European game age-ratings system PEGI has launched a Windows Phone 7 app which lets people browse its database of ratings. It worked with Microsoft on the app, which has search filters for platforms and ratings. The WP7 version joins existing PEGI apps for other smartphones.Windows PhoneMorotobi's AdventureKorean developer Tinrobot has released its first iPad book-app, Morotobi's Adventure. It's got more than 40 pages blending animation and sound effects, with interactive elements too.iPadCars 2 World Grand Prix Read and RaceDisney's latest book-app for iOS devices is an original story based on the world of Cars 2, with a storyline taking in races around the world, plus "reader pit stops" for kids to control their own racing teams.iPhone / iPadViberVoice over IP app Viber has been really popular on iPhone, with more than 12 million active users. Now it has launched an official Android version. It also supports messaging, and works over 3G or Wi-Fi.AndroidMingleMingle has released a pair of iPhone apps – one for New York and one for San Francisco – which are the latest to offer location-based information on bars, clubs and restaurants. The apps pull in data from social networking services to identify which venues are currently hot.iPhoneSkyGrid for TabletsSkyGrid is already one of the more popular news aggregation apps on iPad, but it has just been released for Android tablets too. News can be tracked by topic, with notifications and social features built in.AndroidIsoSketchPixelrevision's IsoSketch is a very innovative iPad geometric drawing app. Users draw on an angled isometric grid, pulling in backgrounds and then exporting the resulting vector art to be used in other image editing software.iPadBack to the Future Ep 5 HDThe fifth episodic installment in Back to the Future's iPad game series is out now from Telltale Games, offering a cinematic interactive spin on the popular movies.iPadTouch DJ EvolutionThere's a lurking suspicion that soon, there will be more iOS DJ applications than there are people who actually want to DJ with their iOS device. Amidio's Touch DJ Evolution is the latest contender, a rewrite of an existing app called Amidio Touch DJ.iPhone / iPadMielophoneMielophone is described by CrackBerry as 'an open source music streaming app' for BlackBerry PlayBook, enabling users to search for songs and play them.BlackBerryYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFoursquare hits 10m: infographic &gt;&gt; FourSquareNice animation.More Windows Phone 7 customers are "Very Satisfied" than Android customers &gt;&gt; SplatFDan Frommer's new venture digs into the details of the ChangeWave research. iPhone satisfaction: 70%; WP7, 57%; Android, 50%; RIM, 26%.Why arresting lulzsec won't change anything &gt;&gt; How the Media Gets it Wrong On Infosec Blog"If the governments were truly serious about stopping this threat they would  work to defuse the anger and outright hate people feel toward the government these days, they would take steps to show people that they are not the bad guys and stop taking such a hard approach.  They would pay more attention to public perceptions and address the issues that people have in a honest and transparent manner, being answerable to the  public when questions are asked."Comments are interesting.Google tests an interface optimized for infinite scrolling &gt;&gt; Unofficial Google Blog"Alon Laudon spotted a new experimental interface for Google's results pages. The most important change is that most navigation elements continue to be visible even when you scroll down. The navigation bar, the search box and the search options sidebar have a fixed position, which means that you no longer have scroll to the top of the page to edit the query or switch to a specialized search engine."Is it bad that a first reaction was "I wonder when that was patented?"Microsoft vs. everybody else: The quotable Kevin Turner &gt;&gt; GeekWire"Keep in mind that a major purpose of this conference is to energize Microsoft's network of partners, and Turner's rhetorical fuel of choice is hyperbole. But as a glimpse into Microsoft's competitive mindset, it's revealing -- and also pretty entertaining, if taken with a huge grain of salt."Comments on Apple, Siebel, Salesforce, Google.. they're all there. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Teen thought to be core hacker &gt;&gt; FT.comA 16-year-old South Londoner has been arrested: "Police hope that the teen and his computer, which was seized for analysis, could bring them closer to Topiary and the hackers Sabu and Kayla, who are credited by other hackers as the driving force in the attacks on security companies such as HBGary Federal. Lulz has also claimed credit for attacks on an FBI affiliate, Sony subsidiaries, the PBS television network and AT&amp;T."The most recent arrest came on the same day that the US detained 16 accused hackers, all but two of whom were charged with participating in attacks against payment processor PayPal in an operation organised by hacking group Anonymous. Two of the US hackers were accused of connections to Lulz."As Microsoft's monopoly crumbles, its mobile future is crucial &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott, nobody's idea of a Microsoft-hater: "After nearly a decade, Microsoft's reign as a monopoly is over."The consent decree in U.S. v. Microsoft expired last month, officially removing Microsoft from antitrust scrutiny by the United States Department of Justice. And the latest real-world data on web usage confirms that Microsoft's once-dominant position in the world of personal computing is crumbling."For the past four years, I've collected semi-annual snapshots of web usage from Net Market Share. The data for the first half of 2011 tell an ominous story for Microsoft. See for yourself."OK, false origin on the graph, but interesting.Apple Lion - a roar deal for the PC &gt;&gt; ZDNet UK"Apple's Lion is perhaps the real beginning of the end for PCs, in the sense of a computer that rudely, personally, puts its demands ahead of ours. Scroll bars? They're not natural and have no counterpart in the real world. We normally just touch a document directly and move it around with our fingers -- a tablet way of working that seems more natural and is now part of Lion. There's still that mouse or touchpad - working with large vertical screen needs compromises - but the interface is one that can start to work when there's nothing but a display of some sort. When the computer itself, in other words, has gone away."Combine that sort of move with, say, projectors built into walls and the sort of optics that let them throw an legible image anywhere; motion sensors that know where fingers and hands are; a connection into the cloud; documents you never need to explicitly save because they're just there, always... where, in this picture, is the PC?"The growth case for open data &gt;&gt; Placr News"If you look at data.gov.uk in detail you will find that it is stuffed with organograms and spending declarations, and that many of the datasets that started publishing have already ceased (e.g. A&amp;E activity. Most government agencies still seem to be operating 'user pays' policies when you get beyond headline free data releases e.g. Meteorological Office data services. So while there are some notably early successes, there is clearly much more to do."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Thursday, final day of the Develop conference. I'm talking to execs from Xbox Live Arcade and PlayStation today! But more importantly, what areyouup to?
Google+, the social networking product from the search engine giant, is heading for 20m users within the next few days just three weeks after its launch, according to calculations.Paul Allen, the founder of Ancestry.com, said on Wednesday that his model which calculates its growth by the prevalence of surnames,indicatesthat by last Monday the site had hit 18m users and was growing at 750,000 per day.The Google+ app for the iPhone, which was released earlier in the week, was the top free app on Apple's iTunes Store.Allen said that the rate of growth has slowed slightly since last week, when there were a million people joining per day.Google+, which is built as a social network that uses the idea of "Circles" - user-generated groups of people with whom to communicate. The idea is, like Twitter, to allow a wider social group than can be created on Facebook, without the need for reciprocity that its "friends" system requires, while letting people post at length rather than Twitter's 140-character limit.Allen says that the potential for growth is enormous: "Google hasn't started marketing Google+ through any of its other channels yet. More than a billion people worldwide use Google products, including its top rated search engine, YouTube, and Blogger. Chairman Eric Schmidt says the vision is to integrate Circles and sharing with all the other Google properties. When that happens, you will likely see millions of people joining Google+ every day for some period of time."Larry Page, the chief executive of Google, expressed delight with the growth of the service following the company's recordprofits and revenues last week. At the time he said that Google+ had passed 10m users. Allen says that his own model at the time showed 13m users, indicating that it is probably broadly accurate.Allen explains his methods: "I don't have access to log files or to a massive consumer panel. I'm simply measuring how many Google+ users there are of various randomly selected surnames every day. Last week I increased the sample of surnames that I query from 100 to 1,000."Over a four-day period, the 100-surname sample showed a Google+ growth rate of 28.4%. The 1,000 surname sample showed a growth rate of 28.5%. [That's] statistically insignificant. So I'm not sure whether to keep running 1,000 surname queries per day or just stick with 100. Yesterday, the number of users with the 1,000 surnames jumped from 23,922 (all counted by hand) to 24,990, for an increase of 4.47%. I tried to get the count a full day after the original count, but there is no way to make sure that my data entry team can time it exactly right. The counts could be off by several hours, cutting into the accuracy."• Meanwhile, Google is killing off Google Labs, its experimental area where it released potential products to see how users liked them.The move is part of a refocus on tighter product releases, and away from the sometimes haphazard approach to releasing its software.In ablogpost, the company says that "we're prioritizing our product efforts" and that "we believe that greater focus is crucial if we're to make the most of the extraordinary opportunities ahead."Google Labscontains a huge range of products and ideas, some in nascent form. Among the engineers working on it are Andy Hertzfeld, a former Apple staffer who worked on some of the first Macintosh designs and was closely involved in the design of Google+ .
A council in south-west England has installed what it claims to be the first smart street-lighting system on a busy roundabout.More than 70 LED lights have been installed at the junction between Bath and Bristol. Their brightness automatically adjusts depending on how dark it is but also takes into account the number of vehicles on the road at any given time.Bath and North East Somerset council believes it is one of the first times such a system has been put into place on such a busy road. It claims the lights will reduce carbon emissions and save £4,500 a year, although there is a initial outlay of £36,000.The Hicks Gate roundabout at Keynsham used to be illuminated by a dull yellow sodium light at night but, under the 71 LED lights, the area can become almost as bright as daylight.Councillor Roger Symonds, cabinet member for transport, said "We understand that this is one of the first instances in the country of this type of technology being used on a major traffic route. The lights will automatically adjust brightness levels according to the time of day and also the number of vehicles on the route at different times of night."The end result is that Bath and North East Somerset council saves money on behalf of local taxpayers, cuts our carbon footprint and makes the route even safer because the lights illuminate the carriage much more clearly for drivers and cyclists."The council said it and other local authorities have used LED lights in residential roads and to light footpaths, but it believes it is leading the way in setting up such a system, with the additional smart features, on a busy road.Kelvin Packer, the council's service manager for highways and parking, said: "Depending on the outcome of this trial, there is the possibility of extending this lighting and associated benefits to other areas of the district."
Claims that millions of people in rural locations will get cheaper internet access after BT was told to slash wholesale charges to internet service providers (ISPs) have been challenged, on the basis they will just cut investment.Ofcom, the UK telecoms regulator, has instructed BT to cut annual prices by 12% below inflation for the next three years for firms that use its network. It says that up to 3m homes and businesses will benefit from the reduction and it would especially benefit people located in hard-to-access parts of Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland, the South West, Yorkshire, Northumberland and Cumbria.The reduction does not include connection, which reduces the effective price cut to about 11%, Ofcom said.But the move was criticised by Wispa Ltd, one of the companies that would in theory stand to benefit as a consultancy to rural ISPs. "Ofcom are either clueless, witless or toothless – it's difficult to make my mind up which it is," said Richard Brown, chief operating officer at the company, which provides broadband access in rural Wales."A reduction in the wholesale pricing gives BT less reason to invest in rural communities due to diminishing return on investment. And a reduction in wholesale costs of 10% isn't a reduction in costs to resellers and agents – wholesale bandwidth makes up a very small proportion of the cost to deliver rural broadband."BT itself said the change will not "materially affect" its BT Wholesale business, and that its retail arm, BT Retail, doesn't charge any extra for supplying broadband in remote areas."Unlike many other providers, despite the higher costs involved, BT Retail's consumer broadband products have always been priced the same in rural areas as in urban areas. This ruling is therefore of more relevance to those ISPs who currently charge a supplement in rural areas," it added.BT said nearly two-thirds of its 5,500 telecoms exchanges serve the remote area market, but they account for only 12% of customers.Brown suggested the announcement could actually lead to greater dissatisfaction among rural subscribers, who typically get slower broadband connections than people in urban areas because the distance between their home and the exchange is longer, which reduces the quality of the high-frequency signal carrying the data on the phone line. "Ofcom's claim that rural broadband will be cheaper will increase discontent when it doesn't happen. Ofcom has no real understanding of how to generate competition in the marketplace."The regulator says 78% of broadband customers are in densely populated and urban areas, which have effective competition and get a good service, but deals are still limited for the population outside of these areas.
It's not looking good for Yahoo.Its latest financial results, for thesecond quarter of 2011, showed falling revenues and earnings that were largely down to its stalling display advertising business.Plotted historically, this all starts to look terminal. Overall revenues haven't been this low since the second quarter of 2005, and overlaid with Yahoo's strategic moves away from tech to media, back to tech and then back to media again more recently - asRoss Levinsohnindicated. This graph shows the familiar decline.Google revenue (red) vs Yahoo revenue (blue) - Q1 1996 to Q2 2011Display advertising was once Yahoo's core business, and one it could rely on exploiting.  Repeated executive shuffles, low morale and a revenue-sharing agreement in search with Microsoft have all sucked the success out of the company. Yahoo is now faced with sitting back and watching its rivals benefit from the growth in advertising display - not just some serious effort from Google which nowoutsells Yahooin display, but also Facebook, which hasincreased its display ad cost-per-click 74%in the past 12 months. (We can't plot Facebook's revenues here, because it's a private company, but you can bet that it is another of the places that Yahoo's lost revenue has gone to.Yahoo'sstockdropped at the end of the US day but rose again after hours.Second quarter of 2011:• Revenues excluding traffic acquisition costs [the amount Yahoo has to pay out to sites for sending it traffic] were $1.076bn, down 5% year on year.• Net earnings was $237m, up from $213m in Q2 2010.• Display advertising revenue rose 2% from Q2 2010, though it had seen 6% growth in Q1.• Search revenue fell to $371m, down 15% year-on-year.From the analysts:•Zacks.com:"Despite some optimism about, growth in search advertising revenue, Zacks acknowledges that Carol Bartz' turnaround plan is moving very slowly. "There are a couple of factors that will likely work against it. The first is the growing importance of Google's display network, which has steadily expanded the market in the small-medium business segment and enabled it to displace Yahoo! as the biggest player in the overall display ad market. We think there is limited satisfaction in the fact that Yahoo remains well positioned at the big players. The writing appears to be on the wall."•Clayton Moranof Benchmark in Florida: "It's almost hard to believe they can continue to disappoint the Street, which we thought had fairly weak expectations, but they've done that."•Ben Schachterof Macquire Research: "They are trying to fix a lot a problems that do need to be fixed, but unfortunately as they are fixing those problems, new ones are popping up."What's the solution?Carol Bartz (who has been in the top job since January 2009) is running out of time to prove that Yahoo isn't in terminal decline. Every passing quarter - and amid increasingly negative reports - her staff cuts, executive changes, selloffs (goodbyeDelicious, now owned by the guys who created YouTube) and ambitious statements on the firm's strategic direction don't seem to be making any difference at all. That search/advertising deal with Microsoft is also failing to help; Yahoo blames that outright for pulling down its revenue figures because of the share it has to give Microsoft.You can bet that behind the scenes, plans are fairly advanced for amputating Yahoo's most profitable parts - namely its 43% stake in Chinese e-commerce group Alibaba, the high-profile photo sharing site Flickr and its advertising sales infrastructure. The question is, once those are gone, what's left, and to whom does it have any value? Yahoo now only seems good for attracting eyeballs, but they're low-value ones. It's become the Woolworths of the internet.Now hovering at $14.59 per share, those giddy days of February 2008 when Jerry Yang proudly headed off that $31 per share, or $44.6bn offer, to buy Yahoo. That now seems something of a Pyrrhic victory.
The release of Apple's next revision of Mac OSX, version 10.7 – called "Lion" – brings a number of big and small changes, from the direction of scrolling to the colour of buttons to ad-hoc Wi-Fi sharing. Here to guide you through them and tell you what's good, what's less so, and what to avoid, isMatt Gemmell.Into the Lion's mouthFirst impressionsFinderLaunchpadFull-Screen appsMission ControlGesturesMailiCal and Address BookSafariSystem PreferencesAuto Save, Resume and VersionsOdds and endsUpgrading to LionWhat's left behindWhoa, horseyConclusionInto the Lion's mouthWhen Apple held its"Back to the Mac" event in October 2010, many OS X users breathed a sigh of relief. There had been a perception that Apple's focus had been solely on iOS, the operating system for the iPhone and iPad, for quite some time – accurate enough, and understandable given the meteoric rise in the number of people using an iOS device in recent years. The announcement of Mac OS X "Lion" (version 10.7) served as reassurance that Apple hadn't forgotten about its existing customers.But there was another meaning to "Back to the Mac": it indicated that many of the new features in Lion had been inspired by iOS, or born of lessons learned during the development of iOS. The good parts of iOS had been fed back into OS X. Which makes sense, since millions more people have used iOS devices than Mac OS X ones; but the Mac OS X market is gaining new users every quarter (Mac sales have been growing faster than the PC marketfor five years).With the previous release of OS X, Snow Leopard (reviewed here) being seen as more of an overall improvement and refinement (with plenty of new developer APIs) rather than adding lots of new visible features, OS X was due to give some more love to the average user. Thankfully, Lion delivers.First impressionsAs soon as you reach the login screen, it becomes plain that Lion serves up a raft of cosmetic tweaks, as every OS X release does; this time, making nods towards iOS. Most are subtle, but the new appearance for choosing a user account to log into doesn't fall into that category. The textured background behind many iOS interfaces when you scroll past a boundary is shown in its full and somewhat sombre glory.Mac OS X Lion's login screen: the  appearance has changed dramatically – to something more like an applianceUser account photos are now rendered in bubbles, not just here but throughout the OS, including in the Fast User Switching menu and in AirDrop. There's something kiosk-like about the new visual cues; it feels just a little bit less like a computer and more like an appliance.When you reach the desktop, you'll find not much has obviously changed – until you're presented with a large window informing you that the default scrolling behaviour has changed: by default, Lion now moves content in the direction your fingers move on the trackpad or Magic Mouse, such that you move your fingers upwards to move web pages upwards (thus "scrolling down", as we'd call it). In other words, it's just like iOS. You can change back to the old behaviour if you wish.It takes some mental adjustment, but after a few days itdoesmake more sense, particularly when paired with the other multi-touch gestures which permeate the new OS. This is the scrolling direction to bet on from now on, and it's not by accident that Apple enables it by default, and calls it "Natural".FinderAs far back as 2003, Steve Jobs wasgrumbling about interfaces where it's up to you to keep the files neatly ordered– where "you're the janitor". Despite Apple's apparent dislike of users having to explicitly manage a file system (to which Spotlight and Smart Folders on OS X are testament, along with several new Lion features; iOS doesn't even give the user access to the file system in any direct way), a new release of OS X always includes a host of tweaks to the Finder's appearance and behaviour.Lion is no exception. The Sidebar in Finder windows has undergone an iTunes-like cosmetic transformation: its various icons now all shown in grey. As with iTunes, it's a questionable decision, making specific folders more difficult to find at a glance. On the plus side, we have a new view of documents entitled All My Files. It's a series of CoverFlow-like browsers, sorted by file type, of all your own documents regardless of location, and definitely useful when, say, you want to find a certain presentation, say, but don't recall the name. Spotlight can provide that functionality too, but a visual browser is more consumer-friendly than a search field. Once again, it's yet another alternative way to find and access your files.Browse your files by type in All My FilesSearching for files is also improved with the newSearch Tokens(also available in Mail), which are a middle ground between an unadorned Spotlight search (type some text into the search field) and a Smart Folder (a saved, continuous search). As you type a query into a Finder window's search field, Lion suggests the actual search criteria you want: you type "Guardian" and it suggests what you're after is "Filename contains 'Guardian'". If you confirm these criteria they're inserted into the search field as blue tokens, which you can interact with to broaden or narrow their scope. It's a remarkably intuitive way to make very precise searches without having to know the arcana of Spotlight's more complex query syntax (which remains available to those in the know, of course).Advanced searches are easier with automatic Search TokensLaunchpadAs soon as you look at the Dock in Lion, you'll notice a new icon for one of the tentpole features of the new OS:Launchpad(also available via a gesture, as you'd expect: swipe upwards on a trackpad with three fingers). Launchpad is the iOS Home screen interface, but on your Mac: rows of icons, freely re-orderable and which can be grouped into folders, spanning as many horizontally tiled screens as necessary.Launchpad makes your Mac into a very big iPhone indeedLaunchpad stays in sync with applications you add or remove, either manually or via the Mac App Store, and functions just as you're used to if you've ever used as iOS device. One sticking point is that apps can't be selected by typing their name on the keyboard – a pointing device is compulsory, which feels a little mean. Otherwise, the interface works very well, and its privileged position in the Dock will surely help beginners find applications without knowing about Spotlight or the Applications folder. It's unlikely to get much use from more advanced users, but it's by no means forced upon you.Full-Screen appsMany applications, including several from Apple, have had full-screen modes for years now, but each was different in its appearance and behaviour. With Lion, Apple introduces not only a standards means for apps to support a full-screen mode, but also native integration with Spaces (its multi-workspace implementation) for those that do.Apps supporting the newFull-Screen APIgain a subtle icon on the extreme right of their title bars (the by now standard diagonally-opposed arrows). Clicking the icon causes the app to enter Full-Screen mode, which promotes it to occupy a new Space of its own. Each app in Full-Screen mode occupies a unique Space, and these Spaces are implicitly tiled horizontally (accessible via four-finger horizontal swipe gestures).The menu bar disappears in Full-Screen mode, though it rolls down into view if the pointer is hovered near the top of the screen – which gains a new button at its right side so you can exit Full-Screen mode and return to the normal Space for that application. It's an interesting approach, and in practice turns out to be one of Lion's most compelling features. It makes the most of smaller screens such the MacBook Air's, and being able to swipe between each such app makes it very straightforward to get to the Desktop or to another app temporarily, without feeling that you're constantly shuffling windows or having to hide other apps.Developers whose apps could even remotely plausibly benefit from a Full-Screen mode would be well advised to adopt this new API as soon as possible.Mission ControlFor several versions, OS X has had a somewhat confusing conglomeration of app, window and widget-managing environments and utilities: Spaces for virtual desktops, Expos&eacute; for window management, and the Dashboard for "widgets" – small, utility applications mainly for status displays and suchlike. Each one has their proponents, but integration between them was loose at best. Lion attempts to gather the majority of their functionality, and that of Full-Screen Apps, under a unified interface calledMission Control. Essentially, it's where you can see everything that's happening across all the windows and Spaces.At first bewildered glance, Mission Control seems aptly namedThere's no kind way to say this: initially, Mission Control is confusing. There are a lot of things going on, and its aims are lofty indeed. The good news is,it does work, and with some perseverance you come to realise that it provides a sensible subset of app, window and Space management in a relatively concise (if not especially inviting, at first) interface.Mission Control is split conceptually into two sections: Spaces along the top (including those you've created yourself, Full-Screen apps, and optionally the Dashboard too), and apps on the current Space in the middle (with their windows grouped together). You can move between Spaces using the same horizontal four-fingered gesture whilst in Mission Control, and the focus will change to the relevant Space. You can switch apps, Spaces and even choose specific windows from here, which will bring the relevant app to the front as normal.It's Space management, however, where Mission Control gets clever. (Did the Apple engineers love the implied joke of "Spaces" and "Mission Control"?) You can create new Spaces manually by hovering over the top-right (as a nice touch, if you have random desktop pictures enabled, each new Space gets a new picture), and you can delete any Spaces you've created by hovering over it in the top row to get an delete icon. The row of Spaces resizes to fit, as icons in the Dock do.App windows and even entire apps can be dragged between Spaces from within Mission Control. (For apps, drag the icon of the app which is shown centred below its collected windows.) Quick Look works for the window you're pointing at, temporarily zooming it to full size, and windows continue to update live at all times.Once you've grasped the idea that all Spaces (which might have your running Full-Screen apps) are listed along the top, and the main central display is that of the current Space, Mission Control becomes extremely useful. It's trivial to shuffle windows or entire apps between Spaces, or create new ones on the fly for a given task. The disparate functionality of Spaces and Expos&eacute; have been convincingly integrated here. It may intimidate at first, but it repays time spent becoming familiar with it.GesturesLike it or not,multi-touch gesturesare the lingua franca of Lion. If you've somehow been holding out on moving to aMagic MouseorMagic Trackpadfull time, you may want to reconsider your position. Swipes, pinches and flicks are supported far more widely than before, including for history navigation in Safari, triggering Launchpad and Mission Control, and much more.With Lion, OS X gets serious about gesturesWhat were previously somewhat gimmicky conveniences have now become first-class interaction techniques, and there's every indication Apple will expand gesture support in future. The new System Preferences panes for your preferred multi-touch input devices have many additional gesture options, complete with the expected slick demonstration videos. You're relatively free to pick the type of gestures you prefer (three- or four-finger swiping particularly), but the message is clear: while you don't absolutely have to use them, your life on Lion will be much easier if you do.MailOne of the most dramatic app-revamps in Lion is that ofMail, the venerable email client which has been kicking around in one form or another since NeXT Computer's NeXTSTEP in the mid-80s. Gone (by default, but once again restorable via a preference, if you wish) is the traditional layout with the message list along the top and message preview below; in Lion, Mail has a three-column view which immediately brings to mind its iPad cousin.Another borrowing from iOS is the preview of the first few lines of a message in the list itself, and a minimalist display (with on-hover action buttons) when viewing the full content.Mail gets sleek, and more iPad-likeIt's visually much cleaner, and has a number of improvements (such as – at last! – multiple colours for "flags" on messages, and a threaded and quote-stripped conversation view like Gmail). This version of Mail feels lighter and more like a new application than an upgraded version. Naturally, it supports Full-Screen mode, and even the mailboxes list can be collapsed for a truly iPad-like experience.Also new areExchange 2010 support(shared with Address Book and iCal),Search Tokens(as in the Finder search), and a number of tweaks to toolbars and formatting controls. If Mail is your email client of choice, there's only good news here.iCal and Address BookWhile Mail has gone sleek and efficient, the other two main productivity apps included with OS X have instead leaned in the direction of whimsy. Address Book is now, well,an address book– almost identical to its iPad incarnation. The wisdom of this decision is questionable, though there's no doubt it's attractive to look at (if oddly small, sitting on a vast iMac screen).Address Book takes its name literally in LionAddress Book has always had a gimmicky, somewhat awkward and frictional interface, and this new version doesn't improve matters. It has a few useful new features – more comprehensive integrated IM buddy status – but its new appearance will have more detractors than supporters. It's continues to be a capable and functional oddity whose eccentricities now include its aesthetics.iCal also adopts its iPad version's look, complete with oh-so-irritating pieces of torn paper along the top, but makes up for it with a useful new Year view, and a revamped Day view to match the iPad version, with a summary and full day planner side by side. Full-Screen mode is also present and correct, making for a welcome if not terribly exciting upgrade.Try as you might, you can't pick off those paper shredsSafariMac OS X's web browser has a modest list of user-visible additions, and a long list of improvements behind the scenes. Full-Screen mode makes a much-appreciated appearance, as does iOS-like tap-to-zoom (automatically finding the nearest boundaries of an image, or a column or text, as you'd desire). Swipe gestures move you back and forward through your history, accompanied by an initially jarring but eventually pleasing animation. The Downloads window is no more, replaced by an unobtrusive popup available from the extreme right of the main toolbar, showing a handy progress indicator.Safari's Downloads now live in a popup, with embedded progress indicatorAmong the things you won't notice, but are there: performance, privacy, stability, compatibility and security improvements, improved HTML5 support, the ability to view (or remove) all data a site has stored on your computer, sandboxing of sites, and improved CSS3 support. Last, but certainly not least, Safari in Lion now competes withInstapaperand other "read it later" services with its newReading List; a way to bookmark articles or pages you want to read at a later time. It's synced to your iOS devices too, naturally, via the to-be-released iCloud.Catch up on your reading whenever you like with Reading ListIt's not much more than an extra (and temporary) location for bookmarks, but coupled with Safari's existing (and confusingly similarly-named) Reader feature, you can have a comfortable reading experience for lengthy articles without cluttering up your main bookmarks or using an external service.System PreferencesThe aggregated control panel for global settings gets the usual smattering of adjustments and reorganisations. Most immediately noticeable is that the "Expos&eacute; &amp; Spaces" pane from Snow Leopard has been replaced with one for "Mission Control", containing a consolidated set of options including keyboard and mouse shortcuts for those features. Just as with Snow Leopard, third-party preference panes which are 32-bit will force the whole Systems Preferences app to restart in 32-bit mode. (Any written using PowerPC code won't work at all, though.)There's a brand new pane – though it will be familiar to iOS users – called Mail, Contacts and Calendars, giving a central location to set up email, CardDAV, CalDAV, LDAP, and instant messaging accounts, for Apple's applications and any others that wish to use them. There's quick setup for Exchange, MobileMe (soon to be the free iCloud), Gmail, Yahoo, AOL, and Mac OS X Server accounts. Previously, setting up accounts was done inside the relevant Apple applications (even if you preferred to use a third-party app instead), so the consolidation is logical and much appreciated. Score another one for iOS's approach as the better way – and one to Apple for getting rid of the way it had done it for years in favour of a better one.System Preferences lets you set up all your email, calendar and chat accounts in one place, at lastMost of us probably haven't looked at the "General" preference pane in years, but you may want to revisit it now – it has a new setting which controlshow scrollbars behave in Lion. By default, Lion has iOS-like scrollbars – thin, plain, translucent scroll-thumbs which appear only momentarily during scrolling. Some older apps will continue to always use full Aqua scrollbars, but Lion itself almost exclusively uses the new style. If you prefer always-visible scrollbars, this is where you can set it up.Want your scrollbars back? Here's where to find them: System Preferences -> GeneralThe "Users &amp; Groups" (n&eacute;e Accounts) pane holds an interesting new option, born of the fact that it lets you enter your Apple ID for the use of iTunes and the Mac App Store: you can now allow a user to reset their local account password using their Apple ID, if they've entered it. In case of emergency, it could be a handy escape route – but just make sure your Apple ID password itself is suitably secure. (That means not just alphanumeric, people; add those punctuation marks.)Reset your account password using your Apple IDA small but handy new option has been added to the Energy Saver settings too: automatically restart the computer if it freezes. Potentially useful for machines running server processes or for remote file sharing.Automatic restart on freeze ... though when's the last time your Mac froze?Lion now has an extra tab in the Security (now aptly called Security &amp; Privacy) pane, showing a list of all apps which have recently requested your location (as iOS does), and the option to opt out of sending diagnostic and usage data for your Mac to Apple.Check up on location-tracking apps, just as with iOSFinally, at long last, English-speakingtext-to-speechusers need no longer suffer under the at times gratingly soulless voice of Alex, the default speaking voice in Snow Leopard. Lion includes the ability to choose (automatically downloading as necessary) a host of new voices in a multitude of languages, including several British English voices, complete with Scottish and Irish variants.Make alerts a little easier on the ears with new voices – even Scottish onesAuto Save, Resume and VersionsLion has three new features which are related to one another, and all equally welcome.Resumedoes exactly what it says: when you log back in, or even restart your machine, your session will resumeexactly as it was before– right down to the apps and windows that were open, as if you'd never left. We've become somewhat used to this on iOS, but it really is a novelty on a desktop OS. Even current selections are preserved within documents. Extremely useful, and a feature quickly missed if you use another operating system or even an older version of OS X. Just be sure there was nothing compromising on your screen last time (but yes, you can choose not to resume if you wish).Auto Saveis similarly self-explanatory: for apps which have opted into the behaviour, documents will be automatically saved at set intervals. Such documents gain a new control in their title bar when the pointer hovers over there: an arrow which spawns a menu.Auto Save lets you manage saved versions of a document from its title barYou can quickly revert to the last explicitly-saved version of a document (a necessary option, given the nature of auto-saving) and can even lock a document such that no further auto-saves will occur. Time Machine in Lion also gives you the option of automatically locking documents of a certain vintage, to prevent accidental edits if you happen to open them later. If you wish to lock the current version of a document but make further independent edits, you can duplicate the document here too.The real fun, however, comes when you choose the last command in the menu, and browse all saved versions of the file. This isVersions.Versions: it's Time Machine for each set of changes to a fileIf you've used Time Machine, theVersionsbrowser will be immediately familiar. It uses the same visual metaphor of versions drifting back into cosmic history, and any version can be restored with a click. The really clever part, though, is that all of the older versions aren't just static renderings – they'relive documents. You can click into them, copy some content, and then paste it into the latest version. Incredibly useful for grabbing some bits of a previous version without clobbering all your other recent changes.Resumeis a feature that everyone will immediately understand and enjoy, whereasAuto Save's more complex functionality (and Versions as a whole) are somewhat hidden, and perhaps more suited to advanced users - but for those users, they're indispensable. Auto Save andVersions, particularly, finally fulfil the other half of Time Machine's promise, and are very welcome indeed.Odds and ends: Airdrop, Quick Look, Preview, etcLion boasts a new zero-configuration file sharing feature calledAirDrop, complete with parachuting parcel icon. It lives in the Finder's sidebar, and when active, other Lion users can simply drop files onto your user account photo to share them with you. File sharing has always required some fiddling around (enabling sharing in System Preferences, then finding the relevant machine in the Sidebar, then navigating to the shared folder), and AirDrop takes all the effort away. No doubt very useful for lab or school situations, or even just for a multiple-machine setup.AirDrop lets you share files between computers as easily as dragging them to a folder (don't worry, it's secure)Security implications? There aren't really any. It's write-only (you only see another person's user account photo as a drop-target; you're not browsing a list of their files). You're asked to confirm any file you drop onto a person's photo in the AirDrop section of a Finder window, and then the recipient is asked to confirm that they want to receive the file. If they accept, it's placed into their own Downloads folder. The sender sees nothing at all on the recipient's machine, nor vice versa. And yes, the files are encrypted as they're sent.AirDrop requires that both parties be on the same Wi-Fi network, and only works when both parties have a Finder window open and are viewing the AirDrop section; if you aren't viewing the AirDrop area, you're not visible to others via AirDrop at all.Quick Lookhas had a few enhancements, including (at long, long last) the ability to automatically resize its preview window as you switch between multiple files. The preview window itself is now grey in appearance, and includes an "Open with Preview" button that causes the window to smoothly transition into an open Preview document, which is a nice touch.The new-look Quick Look window in LionPreviewitself sensibly supports Full-Screen mode, and includes a loupe to magnify areas of any document. Intelligently, it provides a circular loupe for images, and a large rectangular magnifier for areas of text.Aperture's magnifying loupe makes it into PreviewWindows across the OS can now be resized from any corner or edge, losing their lower-right resize indicator, and have rounded corners as panels do on iOS. All the standard widgets have had a polish up, and have an overall more silver-grey and rounded-rectangle appearance. The ubiquitous blue highlight has been brightened, in Apple's seemingly endless search of the ideal shade.It wouldn't be a new version of OS X if the buttons hadn't changed. And they have ...Note that standard widgets now look rather soft compared to those on Snow Leopard, and in some cases it can be difficult to tell whether a control is enabled or not. The visual contrast of some controls just isn't as high as it was before. They'll no doubt change again next time.... but the new grey style of buttons can make it difficult to see what's disabledSystem Profiler is now called System Information, and when accessed from the "About This Mac" panel in the Apple menu, has a new streamlined appearance giving a useful summary of relevant hardware and software info. You can still access the old verbose display too, as you'd expect.The new, easier-to-read System Information displayUpgrading to LionLion is the first version of OS X to be distributed exclusively online, and indeed exclusively via the Mac App Store. What this means in practice is that you need to have the Mac App Store app (available free from Apple) installed on your Mac before you can upgrade to Lion, and whatthatmeans is that you need the latest version of Snow Leopard.Other requirements are at least 2GB of RAM, and either an Intel Core 2 Duo, Core i3, Core i5 or Xeon processor (or better). Generally, Macs from late 2006 onwards (excluding Mac mini models which don't meet the aforementioned spec) should be ready to go.Lion will cost £20.99, and when installed creates a small restore partition on your boot drive, from which you can repair or reinstall OS X if things ever go wrong, without needing any optical media or external drives.What's left behind, and extra questionsIf you're running any code from the PowerPC days, this is the time to wave it goodbye. The Rosetta software that came with Leopard, and was an optional install with Snow Leopard, won't be installed or supported. Lion is the end of the road for PowerPC apps. Attempting to run one results in a dialog saying: "You can't open the application [Whatever] because PowerPC applications are no longer supported." There is no offer nor option to do anything about it.It's been five years sinceApple changed to Intel, and PowerPC has run out of road.The same is true of "incompatible" software: during installation of the OS, Lion will move any apps known to be incompatible apps into a new "Incompatible Software" folder at the top level (root) of the boot drive, including a "Read Me" file telling you what was moved. Lion also informs you that it has done so. This doesn't seem to be limited to just PowerPC apps;Apple maintains a list of known-incompatible versions of specific apps, and Lion checks for them.Whoa, horseyYou may have noticed that there isn't an installation disk for Lion: it's just installed directly onto your machine from download. This obviously leads to the question of what happens if you have a disk crash and have to rebuild your disk directory using Disk Utility or a third-party utility: how do you reboot to rebuild the disk if the disk you're trying to reboot from is the one that's broken?The Lion installer contains a disk image hidden within it, and OS X Daily has got a suggestion onhow to create a bootable Lion volume that you can put on a USB stick. (It may be that installation is tied to your Apple ID used to install the disk.) Apple hasn't said anything about a recommended course of action if even the restore partition is damaged, but there will probably be some technical notes once Lion is release. (MacBook Airs, which don't have optical drives, already haveUSB boot disks.)I recall that Steve Jobs has said that you can boot from Snow Leopard though, in one of his recent replies to a customer's email. Perhaps when booting from the restore partition, you'll be offered the choice to create a bootable external volume/disc of Lion? We don't know the answer yet.But that is why it's really important to remember the mantra:back up before you install. Andmake sure that you can boot from the backup. It's only a few extra minutes, and it's worth the effort.ConclusionLion has a vast array of new features (here's the full list) and perhaps unlike Snow Leopard, the majority of them will be useful to the average user right from the start. Despite initial concerns about an "iOS-ifying" of OS X meaning a reduction in functionality or flexibility, the opposite is actually true – the new version of OS X fulfils the promise of "Back to the Mac" without compromising the focussed elegance of the user experience we've come to rely on.While it's true that there are a few rough edges (mostly related to changed-for-the-sake-of-it cosmetic tweaks, and a lack of obviousness of some of the new functionality like Auto Save), overall Lion is an exceptionally solid and exciting release. There are many new features to be enjoyed by those with any level of experience with OS X, and existing apps and features have been polished and thoughtfully refined.Lion is a substantial improvement across the board, and at only £21, it's a steal.•Matt Gemmell is an iPad, iPhone and Mac OS X developer specialising in user experience. He runs his own business,Instinctive Code, and is an invited speaker at industry conferences. He has written hundreds of articles on development and interface design atmattgemmell.com, and his clients include Apple and other Fortune 500 companies.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIndictment: alleged members of Anonymous &gt;&gt; ScribdCourt documents unsealed.Nathan Myhrvold: Tech Giants Discover Value of Patents &gt;&gt; BloombergFormer Microsoftie technologist Myhrvold owns a slew of patents.Are you listening, Steve Jobs? &gt;&gt; BirdAbroadAn Apple store in China? No, fake: "I know, you guys are laughing: an Apple store in Kunming? No one who doesn't know me personally has ever heard of Kunming before. Kunming is the end of the Earth. It's all true - but seriously, China warps your mind into believing that anything is possible, if you stay here long enough. When we went back to this store 5 days later and couldn't find it, having overshot by two blocks, I seriously thought that it had simply been torn down and replaced with a bank in the mean time - hey, it's China. That could happen."You have already guessed the punchline, of course: this was a total Apple store ripoff. A beautiful ripoff - a brilliant one - the best ripoff store we had ever seen (and we see them every day). But some things were just not right: the stairs were poorly made. The walls hadn't been painted properly."Apple never writes "Apple Store" on it's signs - it just puts up the glowing, iconic fruit."Apple, Microsoft and the divergence of the personal computer market &gt;&gt; GeekWire"As goes the PC market, so goes Windows. Economic uncertainty and alternative devices -- including Apple's iPad -- are cutting into sales of traditional PCs."Note that Apple's Mac sales growth have been faster than Windows PC market sales growth for 16 quarters. This is not chance. Question is, why.Baidu Browser tips hat to old Steve Jobs quote, copies Chrome's special sauce &gt;&gt; EngadgetPossibly by forking Chromium, Baidu - the search engine that's giant in China - now has its own browser that looks rather like Chrome. Live by the open, get forked by the open.Microsoft and Apple, blah, blah, blah. Will someone please talk about Google's role in all this? &gt;&gt; The Small Wave.Good point: Microsoft's model is licensing, Apple's is not licensing, and their approaches to Android reflect this.Nokia Sea Ray Caught on Video, Again &gt;&gt; Right MobileThat October launch is looking on track.Facebook trapped in MySQL 'fate worse than death' &gt;&gt; Gigaom"According to database pioneer Michael Stonebraker, Facebook is operating a huge, complex MySQL implementation equivalent to "a fate worse than death," and the only way out is "bite the bullet and rewrite everything.""Not that it's necessarily Facebook's fault, though. Stonebraker says the social network's predicament is all too common among web startups that start small and grow to epic proportions."During an interview this week, Stonebraker explained to me that Facebook has split its MySQL database into 4,000 shards in order to handle the site's massive data volume, and is running 9,000 instances of memcached in order to keep up with the number of transactions the database must serve. I'm checking with Facebook to verify the accuracy of those numbers, but Facebook's history with MySQL is no mystery."You wouldn't really worry that you might become the world's biggest social network when you first typed "create database..."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
On this week's podcast, Aleks Krotoski, Jemima Kiss and Charles Arthur are joined by the Guardian's senior software engineer Dan Catt to talk about the latest headlines from around the technology world.First, they tackle the app patent wars going on behind the scenes of the smartphone industry. There are epic struggles between the handset makers and battles raging between "patent trolls" and independent developers. With very little to be done to protect the thriving development ecosystem, the team asks what indies can do to protect their turf, and keep pushing the boundaries of innovation.Dan explains how the "internet in a suitcase" works – the technology supported by the US Department of Defence and parachuted into territories run by regimes who have tight control over information. Jemima questions the ethics of such an initiative.Aleks dons her psychologist cape and picks apart the significance of a Columbia University study about the cognitive effects of Google. Betsy Sparrow and her team found that people are using their transitive memory less, because they think the machine will remember for them. But how different is this technology from the pen and pencil, or the mobile phone?And Charles speaks with Philip Reisberger about Bigpoint, one of the world's biggest social gaming platforms, about the best way the tiny indies and the big boys can get rich quick in the highly lucrative market.All this, plus the technology that's driven hackgate, on this week's Tech Weekly.
It's Wednesday. How is your gaming week shaping up?
Apple has delighted its shareholders by racking up another record quarter, strengthened by strong sales of its iPhones, iPads and record sales of its Mac computers. It also hinted that the next version of the iPhone would be released in September, alluding to a "future product transition" then.The firm's revenues were $28.57bn, up 90% year-on-year, and profits $7.31bn, up 124%, as it sold 20.34m iPhones – more than double the number sold last year, ahead of the release of the iPhone 4 – and 9.25m iPads, almost triple the number sold during its debut quarter in 2010. "We're thrilled to deliver our best quarter ever," said Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, on Tuesday.The company's stock surged by $23.22, or 6.2%, to break $400 for the first time, and bringing it closer to being the most valuable company in the world by market capitalisation.As the figures were released, the Wall Street Journal reported that some members of Apple's board have been talking to executive recruiters about finding a successor to co-founder and chief executive Jobs, who has been on extended medical leave from the company since January, while remaining as CEO.The WSJ report, written by people familiar with the thinking of the company's topmost executives, says the board had approached the head of another "high-profile" technology company, apparently for informal soundings. Jobs told the WSJ he thought the idea was "hogwash".He is taking his second extended leave in two years, and while neither Apple nor Jobs has announced the specific reason, it is believed to be due to complications arising from the neuroendocrine cancer diagnosed in 2003.Aside from the WSJ story, which could cause discord in Apple's ranks, the company received more good news when it emerged that the Canadian government would not review the sales of $4.5bn of patents from the bankrupt communications company Nortel. Apple was in a consortium of successful bidders, along with Microsoft, for patents covering a number of mobile phone technologies against Google, whose Android mobile operating software has taken the largest share of the smartphone market.Sales of the iPhone, in its best-ever quarter, mean that Apple will almost certainly have passed the formerly dominant Nokia to become the second-largest seller of smartphones in the world, behind Samsung. Nokia is expected to report a loss for the quarter when it reports on Thursday."Apple could overtake LG by the next quarter and become the third largest mobile phone vendor worldwide," said Carolina Milanesi, smartphone analyst at the research company Gartner. She estimated Apple could have sold 10m iPads in the quarter but for a fire at the Foxconn factory, which lost roughly 1m units.Peter Oppenheimer, Apple's chief financial officer, said 57% of global Fortune 500 companies were either using or testing iPhones due to customer demands, and that 47% of them were testing the iPad tablet. He said there was a "future product transition that we're not going to talk about today" coming in the September quarter – the inference is that it will be an update to the iPhone line.Tim Cook, the chief operating officer who has been running the company in Jobs's absence, said that "we sold every iPad we could make".The company will on Wednesday release the next version of its OSX operating system, called Lion, which it will deliver directly from its online store.Analyst consensus ahead of the forecasts were that it would post $24.92bn in revenues and earnings of $5.5bn. After a quiet quarter, Apple's shares have ramped up in the past week, closing on Monday at an all-time high of $373.80 despite the absence of Jobs.The expectation had also been that it would sell between 15m and 20m iPhones, between 7.2m and 9m iPads, and 4m Macs. Sales of the iPod, the music player that propelled Apple's successful comeback following its launch in October 2001, have continued to decline, a trend that began in 2009.The record sales of its Macintosh computers, while small in the context of the wider PC market, showed 15% year-on-year growth – the 21st quarter in a row they have grown faster than the broad market, which grew by just 2% in the same period. However, the growth in computer sales was the lowest the company had seen in two years.
A 16-year-old boy was arrested in London Tuesday night while the FBI detained at least 14 people after raiding homes across the US as part of an international operation targeting the hacking activist groups Anonymous and LulzSec.Arrests and raids took place in Florida, California, and New Jersey and were aimed at targets suspected to be members of the hacking collective which has hit the headlines in recent months for a series of high-profile attacks. Computers and other equipment were also seized at several addresses in New York as local agents executed search warrants in New York city and Long Island, but – no arrests were made."These search warrants are being executed in connection with an ongoing FBI investigation," a New York FBI spokesman said. More arrests may follow, legal sources said.A spokesman for the Metropolitan police confirmed that the London arrest was linked to the US operation. He added: "Officers from the Met's computer's E-crime unit arrested a 16 year-old male on Tuesday afternoon on suspicion of breaching the Computer Misuse Act. He was arrested at an address in south London and remains in custody at a central London police station."The actions on both sides of the Atlantic followed raids aimed at members of Anonymous that have taken place in others parts of the world, including Italy, Spain, Switzerland and Turkey. More than 30 people thought to be linked to the group have been arrested.Anonymous hit the mainstream media headlines in December when it rallied to the support of WikiLeaks founder Julian Asange. It has an agenda of sympathy for freedom of information and attacked the websites of companies like Visa, MasterCard and PayPal in protest at those firms severing ties to WikiLeaks and making it difficult for Assange to raise money from supporters.Since then hacking has become a hot topic in the US and there have been other cyber-attacks by Anonymous members or supporters on targets such as the CIA and Fox News and the Arizona Department of Corrections. The latter was targeted out of anger at Arizona's efforts to crack down on illegal immigrants.Often, after successful attacks, people claiming to be part of the group will post messages on the social messaging service Twitter boasting of the attacks or providing proof that they hit their targets.Hacking comes in various forms, but a common method used by Anonymous has been a "distributed denial of service" attack where members create a computer network that bombards a website with requests for information and eventually overwhelms it with traffic. Such an attack is illegal.Another hacking collective, called LulzSec, has also been the target of law enforcement ire in America. Last month, FBI agents raided an address in Iowa and questioned a woman about possible links to the group. LulzSec hit the headlines on Monday when it hacked the website of the Sun newspaper. It later claimed to have obtained password information for the email accounts of senior News International executives including former chief executive Rebekah Brooks, who is at the centre of the phone-hacking storm surrounding the company.
Apple confirmed during its earnings call that the next version of Lion, OSX 10.7, will be released on Wednesday. The expectation is that it will be released at 1330 BST.Because it's coming through the App Store, that means that the release can be simultaneous all around the world - rather than, as has happened in the past, varying times depending on store openings, or early deliveries via parcel services. For marketing people, such as those at Apple, it's a dream come true.Note that you can only upgrade to Lion if you are already running OSX10.6.710.6.8. You should also run Software Update first to make sure you've got the latest Migration Assistant, released overnight.You should also, and always, make a backup. The download is around 4GB.We have done a short preview about what to expect from Lion - and if you stay tuned then we'll have a full review as soon as we possibly can.Previously:Apple's Mac OS X Lion could arrive next Thursday: here's what to expect.To reiterate: The upgrade will cost $29.99, or £20.99 in the UK. Lion requires at least 2GB of RAM and an Intel Core 2 Duo, Core i3, Core i5, Core i7, or Xeon processor - meaning it is compatible with Apple computers excepting the Mac mini from late 2006 onwards.And did we mention you should make a backup first?(Obviously, we were wrong about the Thursday thing, as that passed last week. But we are certain about it being released.)
Aaron Swartz, the 24-year-old co-founder of the website Reddit, has been indicted on charges of stealing more than 4m documents fromJSTOR, a paid-for archive of scientific journals and papers, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.The charges were filed in Boston on Tuesday by an attorney for the district of Massachusetts, and carry a penalty of up to 35 years in prison and a $1m fine.The prosecution alleges that Swartz broke into restricted areas of MIT starting on 24 September 2010 and continuing on and off until 6 January 2011, and downloaded "a major portion" of JSTOR's archive. It claimed that his purpose was to distribute the archive through one or more file-sharing sites.The person who broke into MIT's systems was spotted by the MIT system administrators, but repeatedly evaded them. At one point the laptop used to access the network accessed more than 2m downloads – more than 100 times the normal load from a typical user.The allegation is that Swartz stole 4.8m documents, of which 1.7m were normally paid-for."Stealing is stealing whether you use a computer command or a crowbar, and whether you take documents, data or dollars," said Carmen Ortiz, the attorney filing the indictment, in a press release.Swartz, who is also a political activist, is well known online, and the news of his indictment - a preliminary step towards a trial - shocked colleagues and friends.Swartz has been indicted on four counts, of wire fraud, computer fraud, criminal forfeiture and obtaining information from a protected computer.The indictment has beencopied to the MIT "bitbucket" storage site.
How did things go for Rupert and James Murdoch in Twitter's view? As you might guess, not too well. According to the Twitter Sentiment App Engine, their appearance attracted mostly negative analysis - as you'll see below on thesearches for the hashtag #hackgateand "murdoch".The idea of sentiment analysis is that you take a given chunk of text and figure out from the words used in it, and the way they're put together, whether they're expressing positive or negative sentiments about a particular key phrase. It's a complex but promising field of research - especially for brands which want to know what people are saying about them on social networks. "Do they love us or do they hate us on Twitter/Facebook/wherever?" That's what the marketing people need to know.So here we go for "Murdoch", given that they were quite busy on Tuesday... Red is negative, green is positive.Twitter Sentiment analysis for 'Murdoch': mostly negativeAnd now for "#hackgate" on Twitter:Twitter sentiment analysis for "#hackgate": also negativeBut.... Michael Brunton-Spall, one of the Guardian's developers, points out the weakness in the analysis. He did a search on the phrase "News of the World" and concludes that it's "essentially useless":He says: "From the first page -'I really hope News of the World didn't hack 9/11 victims' phones. I would be highly upset.'is negative.""'Mrs. Murdoch kicked the pieman's ass. Too bad News of the World is gone. What a headline.'is negative.""'@_staralfur_ you should be working for the news of the world with headlines like that.. oh wait :p'is positive."His conclusion: "Tweets are too short to semantically analyse, and the surrounding context is not provided, so it's pretty much an impossible task."But he does have some good news: "Nice UI [user interface] though."Then again.... if yousearch for Wendi Deng, who is a one-woman rapid reaction force..Twitter sentiment analysis for 'Wendi Deng': mostly positiveHmm, mostly positive.. that seems to reflect many peoples' reactions to her intervention. Anyone else care to offer a Twitter sentiment analysis engine?
Baidu, China's largest search engine, has signed an agreement with top music studios to distribute licensed songs through its MP3 search service, ending years of legal rows over allegations the company abetted piracy.The deal is significant for the recording industry, which has seen little profit in the China market because piracy is endemic. Pirated movie DVDs and music recordings are sold for under a US dollar. Music studios have long accused Baidu of aiding piracy via its MP3 search, which provides links for users to download pirated music. Earlier this year, the US trade representative office named Baidu as a notorious market for piracy."It's an important step forward for Baidu now to be working with three of the major companies on a licensed model in China," said Frances Moore, chief executive of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), which represents the recording industry. "This looks promising for the development of a legitimate digital music business in a market that has for years been largely dominated by piracy."Baidu is the largest Chinese search engine, having 75.9% of the market, far ahead of Google, which has a small number of mainly English-language searches. China is the world's largest internet market, with an estimated 477 million users which is growing rapidly every year. Searching for music is one of users' top online activities: there were 381 million online music users by the end of June, according to government data. The search market in China grew in value by 62% in the second quarter.The latest move by Baidu to legitimise its music search is part of a broader trend in the Chinese internet space, where online media firms such as Youku, Tudou and Ku6 Media vie for the right to buy and stream legitimate content."This deal is really about Baidu evolving its business," said Michael Clendenin, managing director of RedTech Advisors. "It's no rinky-dink startup that can simply turn a blind eye to what's going on. It's big enough to go legit on MP3 and turn it into a platform with a more convenient user experience."Analysts cautioned against projecting too much importance on the deal at this early stage.The Nasdaq-listed company's shares have more than tripled in value since Google's partial withdrawal from China in early January 2010."It (the agreement) will be very positive for Baidu in terms of user experience and it also fits in with Baidu's 'box computing' strategy which is to make a lot of information available on the Baidu site," said Dick Wei, a Hong-Kong based analyst with JPMorgan.Under the terms of the deal, Baidu will pay music content owners on a per-play and per-download basis for all tracks delivered through its MP3 search and Ting platform.The licensed music will be supported via advertising, and the music labels will receive a minimum revenue guarantee against the songs streamed or downloaded. If the advertising revenue exceeds that amount, a revenue split will kick in. If it doesn't, Baidu will still make the payout, said Baidu spokesman Kaiser Kuo.Baidu is in the process of uploading the music catalogues on to its servers but the firm will not conduct a cleanup of the MP3 search site, meaning links leading to illegal music will remain for now.Kuo said in the long term, Ting will be Baidu's only music offering which the firm aims to monetise by providing value-added services.Currently, a search for popular music titles on Baidu's MP3 search brings up a mix of legal and illegal download links.Baidu said the agreement with One-Stop China was accompanied by a conciliation agreement endorsed by the Beijing high people's court that ended outstanding litigation between all parties involved in the deal.Analysts said although the deal is incrementally positive, it could see Baidu paying more for content and the firm may not be able to generate revenue from Ting in the near term. "I think there will be a higher cost involved and I'm not very sure they can generate the revenue," said Wallace Cheung, a Hong Kong-based analyst with Credit Suisse.Earlier in the year, Baidu signed an agreement with the Music Copyright Society of China (MCSC) to pay fees to MCSC for every song downloaded using Ting. Baidu already has an agreement with EMI Group through the one with MCSC.Baidu also recently removed hundreds of thousands of infringing links from its Baidu Library product after a group of Chinese authors accused the search engine of not respecting copyright laws.
Just how close is Apple to becoming the world's greatest corporate superpower?Some close stock-watching by MG Siegler atTechCrunchhas produced the interesting the prediction that Apple's rising market capitalisation combined with the slide of Exxon's could see Apple becoming the word's most valuable company. Apple's value is currently a record high of$345.7bnand rising, while Exxon's is$407.1bnand has been flat.Ahead of Apple's quarterly results, that value is expected to rise further.Apple vs Exxon's market capOur own Charles Arthur made this same observation inOctoberlast year, as Apple's stellar performance off the back of iPad and iPhone success pushed it above the $300-per-share point for the first time. Those same shares are now at $373.80 and, as Charles said, it is the new products that really drive Apple's growth.What the company will want today is a fresh hike in its value based on response to its latest products. The numbers the market will be watching are iPhone and iPad sales but also, as Philip Elmer-Dewitt ofFortunewrote today, earnings per share, the gross margin that demonstrates how efficiently Apple is converting sales into profit and then 'June guidance' - Apple's own conservative estimates for the period.iPhones make up 50% of Apple's income, and they will be expected to sellbetween 15m and 20.25m. iPads, which saw production slow after a fire in the Foxconn factory, are estimated to sell between 7.21m and 9m.As for the rest of 2011, Apple is widely expected to refresh the MacBook Air range, release a new iPhone (iPhone 5, or iPhone 4S) and reports that Apple has ambitious plans for China that, through apartnership with China Mobile, could give Apple access to the 600 million userbase.There are also some wilder rumours about an iPad with retina display (thatis the one worth waiting for) and the seemingly eternal possibility of a cheaper, contract-freeiPhone Nanothat's still persisting.But for today, it's the sales numbers and the revenues to watch. Apple's results call begins at 2PM pacific time, or 10PM UK time.
While at Sony Computer Entertainment, Paulina Bozek created the SingStar PlayStation music game franchise. Now she's running her own startup,Inensu, focusing on social and mobile games, initially around fashion and music. At today's Evolve conference in Brighton, she outlined the strategy behind the new company."What I really want to talk about is new audiences," she said, reminding the audience of developers that for the last five weeks, the most popular console game in the UK has been Zumba Fitness, while the rise of Facebook and iPhone gaming has widened the base of gamers considerably."Suddenly our addressable gaming audience is literally everyone," said Bozek, who said Inensu is focused on mass-market games. "We see ourselves very much as sitting at the intersection of games and entertainment."The studio's first project is Closet Swap, a project with Channel 4 Education. It's a social fashion site that lets people upload photos of their clothes and create virtual fashion closets with their friends. This is a website with Facebook Connect built in, but there will also be a native iPhone app, and a web app for Android and BlackBerry.The idea: to encourage people to swap clothes rather than shop for new ones that they don't need: there is a strong sustainability angle to the project. "This app was not going to be about preaching to the converted: we really wanted this to be for the Top Shop Girl," she said. "We wanted to influence normal teenagers, not just have an ethical-for-the-already-ethical app."When people upload a snap of some clothes, they're invited to enter its "story": where they got it, where they wore it, who gave it to them and so on. Then, people can browse their friends' virtual closets and ping swap requests to one another."We think about social as a way to get an app into people's everyday social sphere... make it part of their leisure time with their friends," said Bozek. "Fashion is really interesting to innovate in: it's a fundamentally retail-driven industry, and it hasn't really changed."This isn't a game, right? But there are game elements. "We think that dressing up is inherently playful. Self-expression is playful. But we have added a gamification level to it," said Bozek. "Our approach was to make clothes the items that power up."When an item is first added to a closet, it is worth 50 points. The first time it's swapped, it becomes worth 100 points, then 200 points the second time and so on. These points then become each user's total, displayed in leaderboards. They also, importantly, show which items are the most popular among a group of friends.Inensu's second project is called Super Fan, and is focused on music rather than fashion. The goal here: to design something for music fans, whose relationship to music has "fundamentally changed an entire industry... The music industry is going through this big change from distribution models to consumption models, and everyone is trying to figure out how to monetise the music, and replace the lost revenues."So, Inensu is looking to combine music, gaming and social features, with a particular focus on 12-15 year-olds who have grown up with digital music and social networking."For this audience it's all about accessing music rather than owning it. YouTube is their MTV," said Bozek, who pointed out that increasingly, artists' music videos are being shot with YouTube in mind, not TVs in living rooms. "We think that teens have a very personal and emotional connection to music. It's part of their identity... But the complications of music licensing are still holding us back."Bozek cited Turntable.fm, the US social music site that lets people DJ for one another using their own MP3s, as inspiration. It is still available in the US, but has been blocked outside for licensing reasons. "It mirrored a real-life scenario of people hanging out and playing records," said Bozek. "And it was also about discovering music through others."With Super Fan, Inensu wants to gamify fandom, with a mixture of games, leaderboards, chat and other social features. "We refer to this as fan club 2.0, because fan clubs haven't really changed," said Bozek. "We're not really getting involved with the music licensing itself. We believe there are a whole bunch of other things going on around the music which mean we don't have to focus on the recorded music itself."Super Fan will launch in private beta in a few weeks' time. Inensu is talking to some labels about how they can get involved in the future."They love the idea of the DAU - the daily active user - even more so than we do in social gaming. There is a good opportunity around virtual goods too. We saw it a bit with Lady Gaga in FarmVille, but she didn't really go down that route: she used it as a promotion."Bozek explained that Inensu also thinks there will be an opportunity to link out to concert tickets, merchandise and other products as Super Fan gets going.
Microsoft has put a price on the heads of the criminals behind the Rustock spam botnet: $250,000. It might not quite be a retire-in-riches lottery prize, but for a lot of those on the edge of legality, who might know who the people behind the Russian-based network are, it could be a sufficiently tempting piece of fruit.In ablog post, Richard Boscovich, senior lawyer at the company's Digital Crimes unit says that "we believe the Rustock bot-herders should be held accountable for their actions."Rustock, Boscovich points out, was a notorious spam generator, able to produce up to 30bn spam emails per day. Despite thetakedown in Marchwhich reduced the number of infected machines from 1.6m to around 703,000, there is still a long way to go.The worst infected countries ahead of the takedown were India (322,000), Russia (94,000), Turkey (89,000), the US (86,000) and Italy (54,000).Subsequently they are India (99,000), the US (56,000), Turkey (50,000), Italy (32,000) and Russia (27,000).Boscovich adds that "Microsoft has already been gathering strong evidence in our ongoing investigation and this reward aims to take that effort a step further. We will continue to follow this case wherever it leads us and remain committed to working with our partners around the world to help people regain control of their Rustock-infected computers. (For free information and resources to clean your computer, visitsupport.microsoft.com/botnets.)"Here are the maps (generated by OpenHeatMap of numbers of infections. There isn't much change between the two except that the US moves from second largest number of infections to fourth largest. India, perhaps surprisingly, remains the place with the most infections. The surprising absence? China. We'd like to know why it doesn't show up there.Before.....and after
Developers and publishers must learn from expert disrupters such as Netflix and Amazon to survive in the rapidly evolving games industry. That was the message delivered by Andrew Wilson, the worldwide head of development for EA Sports, during the opening keynote of this year'sDevelop conference.In a talk titled Gaming 3.0: Moving the Goalposts he raised the subject of Amazon's Whispersync feature, which allows customers to download a digital book for one price and then read it on whichever format they like from PCs to smartphones and Kindle, without having to pay again for each platform. He suggested that eventually EA Sports may well move toward the same model with its own games, even providing all of its titles, from Fifa and Madden to Tiger Woods PGA Tour golf, for one fixed price on multiple platforms – all linked by the same social gaming ecosystem."It's about handing over control to the gamer," he said. "Ultimately, what we want to get to is this concept where we break down the barriers between the franchises. John Riccitiello our CEO says it seems like such a waste – we spend $20-40m making each of these games, but most gamers only ever play one, because the business model is an impediment. So how about we drive toward a model where every gamer can experience everything we make without paying that much more money. You've got to recognise that given the opportunity, the consumer will play and they will bring their friends."Wilson also discussed the huge changes brought about by new gaming platforms such as smartphones, social networks and tablets, as well as by emerging digital income models like free-to-play. Name-checking social gaming behemoth Zynga, which is now turning over $1bn a year in revenue from Facebook titles such as Farmville, he stated: "Games based around micro-transactions means that anyone can get in, we've lowered the barrier of entry – it's iPhone, it's Android, it's tablet – all of these things now deliver a ubiquitous service of digital gaming that means that just about anyone can be part of it."Social and casual games have, he said, massively expanded the global gaming audience from 250 million a couple of years ago to 1.2 billion – but that this audience has radically different demands than the traditional 'core' gamers. Just as consumers have taken control of music delivery by abandoning CDs in favour of digital downloads, and just as TV viewers have moved away from schedules toward content-on-demand, he sees the future of interactive entertainment being all games available on all platforms when the gamer wants them."Consumers are saying 'we're no longer going to line up at Gamestop en masse and give you money. We want to see an evolution in this space, we want to take control of games on the same way as we have taken control of music and movies.'"For EA Sports, the social ecosystem is the central component. At E3 this year, the company announced the EA Sports Football Club, a social networking feature designed to facilitate online play between friends, and also to provide gamers with an in-game identity that exists between all versions of Fifa, including console and smartphone. Wilson claimed that EA Sports would be rolling out similar services on all its titles over the next year.The key to survival in the current industry, he concluded, was to embrace radical change, and to stay one step ahead of the contemporary business model. It is also about dropping the idea of one-off retail releases and adopting a more expansive digital model – in the future EA Sports could well be a service, like a TV channel, in which golf, football, American football, etc, are all accessible and downloadable for one fee."Our vision is to move away from having your company or your platform at the centre of your creative vision an put the consumer there instead – because the reality is, they will put themselves there regardless of what you do. And you must provide opportunities for them to come in to contact with everything you make, on every platform that's available."They will use technology against you, unless you empower them to work with you. You need to offer one connected experience. Netflix, Apple and Amazon have all demonstrated how this works in other industries – the reality is, it will be the same for us…"
News International took its remote access and webmail systems offline for 12 hours, and is resetting the passwords for all users after thecompany's systems were breachedby members of the hacking group LulzSec.The hackers appear to have gained access to the database with email and password details, some of which were published online last night on the Twitter accounts of some of LulzSec's members.Taking webmail and remote access offline was the only way that News International could be sure that nobody from the group who might have access to the details can log in and steal emails belonging to staff.In a note sent out to all News International staff at 11.05pm on Tuesday night, soon after LulzSec hacked a server in the company's systems to redirect people visiting the Sun's main web page to a faked story suggesting Rupert Murdoch had been found dead, the company said there has been a "security breach".Remote access was restored around 11am on Tuesday, a News International spokesperson told the Guardian.The note, which has been seen by the Guardian, reads: "All staff will be prompted to reset their password on next login. Please note the password complexity required: Minimum of 8 characters; letters and numbers; upper and lower case. Staff should also be aware that Citrix remote access, Webmail and email to iPad, iPhone and Android devices is currently offline."News International declined to comment on suggestions that the hackers might have had access to the email accounts of senior executives including former chief executive Rebekah Brooks under her old login from when she edited the Sun as Rebekah Wade.
UK developer Handcircus is best known for its iPhone game Rolando, launched in December 2008 in the early days of the App Store. "Back then you could sell games in the App Store for $9.99 and people would buy them," said founder Simon Oliver, in a speech at this morning's Evolve games industry conference in Brighton tracing the studio's path from iPhone to console.Oliver explained that by the time Rolando 2 came out in July 2009, it sold well but not as well as its predecessor, which had generated "hundreds of thousands" of paid downloads. That was one factor in Handcircus shifting focus to consoles, with a game called Okabu that is being developed for PlayStation 3.Why move from iPhone to console when so many developers are moving the other way as fast as they can? This was the key subject for Oliver's talk, as he explained how the financial security provided by that early App Store success gave Handcircus the time and space to pick its future direction, including going it alone after releasing Rolando through iOS publisher ngmoco."The partnership with ngmoco had been great for us, but we didn't have ownership of Rolando," said Oliver. "If we'd wanted to take it down a road that ngmoco didn't agree with, we didn't have that flexibility."Oliver also talked about "the desire for self-destiny", where ownership of gaming IP gives a developer much more ability to dive speedily onto new opportunities and platforms. "Keep nimble: the future arrives quickly," he told the audience of fellow developers.Why own IP as an independent games developer? "It annoys me when people talk about the worthlessness of their IP," said Oliver, citing World of Goo as a prime example of the alternative approach. The original PC game cost $79,000 to develop, and made around $950,000 in revenues in 2008 alone, followed by another $1.7m on WiiWare in 2008, and $1.25m in a single month on iPad in 2010."If they'd given away that IP, there's no way they would have been able to get those benefits," said Oliver. "It is about taking advantage of these new opportunities that are coming up on a daily basis. You are betting on yourself: if you have a hit, you benefit."He also talked about Angry Birds, and pointed to developer Rovio Mobile's decision not to assign full rights to the IP to the game's original publisher Chillingo: a decision that has since proved hugely lucrative for the Finnish developer.Oliver also said "tech freedom" is important for independent developers: making sure that whatever technology they use to make their games will enable them to move onto new platforms quickly, when appropriate. "The three that in my mind stand out as being the most flexible are C or C++, Unity and HTML5," he said.What about inflexible platforms? Oliver cited XNA, Flash and Objective-C, stressing that in the first case, while Xbox 360 and Windows Phone are interesting markets, developing in XNA means more work if games are to be ported to non-Microsoft platforms.Oliver also said staying lean is an important attribute for independent developers, partnering where needed in order to keep their core team small and focused. He also advised developers to use open source software wherever possible.Back to the question most often asked of Handcircus: why move from iPhone to console? "We're not moving away from iOS, but is it the best place to launch new IP?" asked Oliver, although he noted that games like Infinity Blade have managed to make a splash on the App Store, albeit with a bigger budget than most indie developers would have access to.Okabu is a nature-themed game for PS3, which Oliver said is designed to be accessible to a wide audience, while retaining a depth of gameplay for more experienced gamers. It took nine months of pre-production and then 12 months of full production, taking finance from Sony Computer Entertainment's Pub Fund to enable Handcircus to retain control of the IP.Oliver also outlined some of the lessons learned along the way. "I massively underestimated the amount of work that goes into creating a console game," he said. "As a single learning experience personally I don't think it could be bettered."He also warned against trying to to do much: "This idea that you can get involved in all the different aspects of the business... there needs to be a limit to that. Personially I feel I pushed it too far." Oliver was the business owner, game director, handled the marketing and press, and was still mucking in with actual coding.Oliver also talked about lessons from iPhone development that Handcircus has managed to take to PS3. A focus on simplicity was one key factor: paring down the controls in order to make Okabu as accessible as possible. "It's single thumbstick and two buttons to control the game, which allowed us to really reach a wide audience," he said.Oliver also said that Handcircus is considering what other digital products might spin out of games like Okabu. During its development, he took a week out to create an iPad book-app featuring its characters, more as a creative interlude rather than a commercial endeavour. This could go further in the future though."If you maintain ownership you can do whatever you want," said Oliver. "If you want to do an animation show or something else, you can do it."
Vince Cable takes charge of Ordnance Survey Photograph: Steve Parsons/PAA quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOrdnance Survey becomes part of Department for Business Innovation and Skills &gt;&gt; Ordnance Survey"The Prime Minister announced today that Ministerial responsibility for Ordnance Survey, alongside Land Registry and the Met Office will pass to the Department for Business Innovation and Skills (BIS)."The Government shareholding of Ordnance Survey and the Government's customer functions both move from the Department for Communities and Local Government."The BIS Permanent Secretary, Martin Donnelly, welcomed the move, which marks a step towards establishment of a Public Data Corporation (PDC), plans for which were announced by the Government in January this year."Ordnance Survey never quite made sense inside DCLG. It will be interesting to see who its minister is.Twitter spam and motivation to report it &gt;&gt; Marco.org"Fundamentally, I believe Twitter's priorities here are wrong. Twitter needs a far more aggressive, automated, proactive, heuristic-based anti-spam system. And if someone has trouble legitimately tweeting a link with no text to 100 people in a row who don't follow them at precise 1-minute intervals, that's just the price we'll have to pay."In the meantime, I'm never using the "Report Spam" feature again, because it just seems like I'm wasting my time."Though this does assume that spam on Twitter actively annoys people. There's not a lot of evidence that it does, though, because unlike email it hasn't reached the point where it's any significant proportion of a timeline - and has any single spam account actually tweeted the same person twice?US mobile map audience grows 39% in past year as fixed-internet map audience softens slightly &gt;&gt; comScore"More than 48m mobile users accessed maps on their device in May, marking an increase of 39% from the previous year. A comparative look at map usage among fixed-Internet users (i.e. accessing from a home or work computer) found that map visitation saw a slight decline in total audience in May 2011 versus the previous year, dipping 2%, while still maintaining a substantially larger audience of 93.8m visitors."Give it a few quarters and mobile will outdistance desktop.It is time for Google to take control of Android &gt;&gt; ZDNet"I have been using Android phones and tablets since the beginning, and for the most part I love them. They work well most of the time and are a joy to use. That is the case until something goes wrong, and as [ZDNet colleague] Scott discovered it usually is the result of one of Google's partners changing something on a given device that jams up the pipes."I always suspected this was the case and it was proven to me when I switched to the Samsung Nexus S 4G recently. The Nexus S is Google's flagship phone, and as such it bypasses all of the Samsung customizations in favor of running stock Android. This has resulted in a user experience better than I have experienced with all other Android devices. The operation of the phone is perfect, and the performance is stellar in every way."Perfect? Wow, that's quite a benchmark.Analyst suggests RIM to discontinue Wi-Fi BlackBerry PlayBook &gt;&gt; BGR"In a note to investors Monday afternoon, RBC Capital Markets Managing Director Mike Abramsky reiterated an OTR Global report that Research In Motion is possibly planning to stop production of the BlackBerry PlayBook's Wi-Fi model. The Wi-Fi version of RIM's tablet is the only version Research In Motion currently manufacturers. The reasons for the discontinuation of the Wi-Fi edition, Abramsky states, could be related to a pullback in production, a move that would align channel inventory with slower than expected sell-through, in addition to RIM focusing on upcoming cellularly-connected PlayBook versions."*Possibly* considering. But some commenters on the post point out that you can get a used PlayBook for quite a lot less than the retail price.Note: RIM has denied this completely,tweeting: "Pure fiction. No plan to discontinue. In fact, WiFi PlayBook is launching in new countries practically every week."Apple set to release Lion, new MacBook Airs as soon as Wednesday &gt;&gt; Apple InsiderAs soon as Wednesday what? Oh, you mean.. sure. Wonder if it will instead delay a day, to let its financial results wash over the papers on Wednesday morning, and then hit again on Thursday.ZTE Skate Android phone gets UK price and launch date &gt;&gt; Electricpig"According to British etailer Clove, the ZTE Skate will go on sale in the UK on September 19th, and it's available now for pre-order, priced up at an enticing £250. That's a solid £100 to £200 cheaper than similar sized rivals such as the HTC Desire HD and Samsung Galaxy S2, and it's likely to be even cheaper on Orange, where it will be subsidised on Pay As You Go for a still to be confirmed price."ZTE (a Chinese ODM-turned-OEM) is going to be a force to be reckoned with in the smartphone market. Microsoft and Apple have probably booked their patent lawyers' appointments already.Astronomers discover habitable exo-Earth orbiting binary star &gt;&gt; Technology Review"Today, we can add another strange planet to the list [of exoplanets that maybe we could live on]: 55 Cancri f, one of five planets known to orbit an orange dwarf star some 40 light years away in the constellation of Cancer."Kaspar von Braun at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena and a few pals have measured its orbit accurately for the first time. These guys are able to confirm that 55 Cancri f is a genuine candidate to support liquid water."They say that although this planet's orbit is much more elliptical than Earth's, it still spends most of its time (74 per cent) in the habitable zone."So we'd only freeze/boil to death three months of its year? Save us a seat.reddit gold, one year later &gt;&gt; RedditA year ago, Reddit introduced a "subscription" program, Reddit Gold. Turn off ads, more comments visible, certain other interaction benefits, for $4/month, or $30 to start.So, how has it gone?SeaMicro drops its third atom bomb on server makers &gt;&gt; VentureBeat"SeaMicro shook up the world of data center computing by making energy-efficient servers built around Intel's low-power Atom chips, which are usually used in netbooks and laptops. Now, for the third time in nine months, SeaMicro is introducing another line of servers that can pack an awful lot of computing power in a sixth of the usual space and a quarter of the electricity."Impressive: the key is that it doesn't just go after the CPU but also the other chips that burn electricity, which take 2/3 of consumption.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The LulzSec attack on News International's systems to redirect readers from the Sun to a fake story, and to try to get at its internal email store, appears to have been two-pronged.Some of the more skilled hackers, including some from the hacker collective Anonymous, had been probing it in detail for about two weeks before the hack. One was to break into its email archive; the other was to hack and "deface" the site itself, by putting up a fake story – the same method LulzSec originally came to attention by doing when it hacked the PBS site to claim that Tupac Shakur was not dead.However as far back as 2009 a weakness was found in the"Contact us" form of the Sun's sitethat meant that it could be used to attack the database holding emails for the system.Some former News International employees' names and mobile phone numbers have been given out on Twitter by people affiliated to the hacker collective Anonymous. However, they are not current: some include people who left the company in 2007. But that also implies that they may have access to email archives dating back to when some phone hacking occurred.Monday night's hack of the Sun occurred because one of the hackers found a weakness in a "retired" server for the News International "microsites" – used for small or unimportant stories – running Sun's Solaris operating system.The most likely candidate for that hack – which would use the weakness discovered in 2009 – is the "mailback" page athttp://www.new-times.co.uk/cgi-bin/newtimesmailback, which on Tuesday morning had been deactivated, along with the whole of the new-times site.The server hosted the outdated "new-times.co.uk" site put up when the Times was building its paywall.The hacker used that and then ran a"local file inclusion" programto gain access to the server – meaning they had extensive control over it.That then gave them access across large parts of the News International network, possibly including the archived emails, and to the Sun's "content management system" (CMS) – which formats news onto pages. That will have included the code for the "breaking news" element of the Sun's main webpage; changing the entire content on the page would be too obvious.By including a line of Javascript in the "breaking news" element, the hackers were able to ensure that anyone visiting the Sun's home page would, as the ticker was automatically refreshed, they would be redirected to anywhere that the hackers chose.Initially they made it redirect to a fake page they had created at new-times.co.uk/sun which attempted to look and read like a Sun story claiming that Rupert Murdoch had been found dead. That page used a template of another story that first appeared on 14 July, suggesting that the hackers either grabbed an archived story or have had access since then.After the team at News International tried to regain control, the hackers then redirected the main News International page to theTwitter page for LulzSec.But the problems for the News International team aren't over. A number of email addresses and passwords were being tweeted last night on various feeds – implying that the hackers may have gained access to the email archive and be preparing to release it. If that happens, the effects could be titanic.Many thanks toJared Earle,Paul Lomax,Joe Saunders,Ian BetteridgeandDan Cattfor invaluable help with the analysis.
It's the first day of theDevelop conferencein not-so-sunny Brighton. Today I'll be talking to EA Sports senior VP of development, Andrew Wilson...
News International websites for the Times and the Sun were taken down last night after hackers targeted the Sun's web pages and redirected traffic to another page falsely reporting that Rupert Murdoch had been found dead.The LulzSec hacking collective hacked the tabloid's site, and also claimed to be "sitting on their [the Sun's] emails" and that they would release the emails on Tuesday. They tweeted what they claimed was Rebekah Brooks's email address, and said they knew her password combination.The breach was apparently the first hack of a major UK newspaper's website.News International's corporate web page also appeared to have been disabled after News International technicians took down pages for the Times such as thetimes.co.uk as a precautionary measure.LulzSec has previously targeted companies including Nintendo. It put up the fake Sun web page after finding a way into the News International system and changing the code for the breaking news banner on the Sun's site. When the Sun page refreshed, readers were redirected to a fake page on the New Times site atnew-times.co.uk/sun.The hoax story suggested Murdoch had taken [the rare-earth metal] "palladium" before "stumbling into his famous topiary garden late last night". The page later redirected to LulzSec's Twitter account."This is only the beginning. Fuck you Murdoch. You are next,"tweeted the person behind the LulzSec Twitter account,thought to be the member known as Topiary, a Swedish-born citizen who lives in the Netherlands. A News International spokeswoman confirmed the company was "aware" of what was happening, but made no further comment.The episode demonstrated that News International's systems have been vulnerable to hackers for some time. Rumours had surfaced that the hacking collective Anonymous would hit the site last week, but nothing appeared to come of it.• This article was amended on 19 July 2011. The original said that the hoax story suggested Murdoch had taken the radioactive poison palladium. This has been corrected.
More Americans than ever will buy tablet computers and smartphones this year, driving consumer electronics revenue up 5.6% to a record high of $190bn (£119bn) in 2011, according to aforecastfrom the US trade group Consumer Electronics Association.The CEA claims sales in the US of tablet computers such as Apple iPad – of which financial analysts reckon the company sold 8m worldwide in the past three months, and 4.7m in the first three months of the year – and its rivals will reach 26.5m units, resulting in $14bn in revenue. Meanwhile smartphone sales will increase by 45% to $23bn, the study said. Unit sales of e-readers, such as Amazon.com's Kindle, will double, bringing in $1.8bn.But the revenue growth – at 5.6% more than twice as fast as US GDP growth, expected to be 2.4% for the year – indicates a slowdown from 2010, when overall growth hit 6%. And the CEA's forecast for 2012 indicates it only expects 3% growth next year as prices of tablets and smartphones fall and penetration widens."One year ago, tablets were a new and unproven market. Now they, along with other mobile connected devices including smartphones and e-readers, are leading the entire industry to positive growth," Steve Koenig, the group's director of industry analysis, said.The forecast for total spending is up by $4bn from theforecast made by the CEA in January, when the association said it expected 3% growth.Mobile products are boosting revenue growth for the industry as other types of consumer electronics, such as flatscreen TVs, show declines, Koenig added.The study found 88% of US households own at least one digital TV. Because of this high rate, sales of TVs are set to fall this year, with revenue of more than $18bn.TVs that are connected to the internet are likely to be a growing area, with more than 10.4m units shipping to stores this year. Despite the slow adoption of 3D, TVs that have that feature will ship 3.6m units, up from 1.9m units last year.Apple will release its quarterly results on Tuesday, and sales numbers of the new, thinner iPad 2 will be in the spotlight. Wall Street estimates Apple sold about 8m new iPads in the quarter, and 16.9m iPhones.
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending16 JulyPositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (1)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (90)Xbox 360 (8)PS3 (2)162 (3)Transformers: Dark Of The Moon(12+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (38)43 (2)Dirt 3(12+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (37)84 (7)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (34)PC (6)Wii (3)345 (4)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (28)DS (27)Xbox 360 (21)PS3 (14)106 (12)Lego Star Wars Iii: The Clone Wars(7+)Xbox 360 (28)DS (27)PS3 (16)Wii (15)167 (–)Harry Potter & The Deathly Hallows Part 2(12+)Xbox 360 (39)PS3 (31)Wii (15)DS (12)18 (–)EA Sports Active 2(3+)Wii (49)PS3 (47)Xbox 360 (4)49 (8)Brink(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (36)PC (10)1010 (15)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (44)2811 (19)Dungeon Siege III (16+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (33)512 (11)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (27)PSP (8)DS (7)4213 (5)LA Noire(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)914 (–)Marvel vs Capcom 3: Fate Of Two Worlds (12+)PS3 (61)Xbox 360 (39)415 (14)Red Faction: Armageddon(15+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (37)516 (13)UFC Personal Trainer(3+)Xbox 360 (92)PS3 (6)Wii (2)217 (17)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)9018 (9)F.E.A.R. 3(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (36)PC (7)419 (–)Mortal Kombat(18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (36)720 (–)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Wii (36)DS (31)PS3 (16)Xbox 360 (15)20UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
Developers making social mobile games are currently spoiled for choice when it comes to potential sources of investment, but they must carefully scrutinise these opportunities for the strings that may be attached.On Friday, US social games publisher CrowdStar partnered with startup incubator YouWeb for something calledStarFund: a $10m fund that will invest up to $250k in individual social mobile game developers, while also helping them market their finished games and dig into the analytics of how people are playing them.CrowdStar recently had a bona-fide iOS hit with Top Girl, a game that it says was downloaded more than one million times in its first 10 days on the App Store. StarFund is an attempt to identify and work with talented independent developers to build on this success over the coming months."YouWeb's mission is helping entrepreneurs build successful products and business models," said YouWeb founder Peter Relan – a man who has backed several notable gaming startups, including OpenFeint, iSwifter, Sibblingz and CrowdStar itself. "As such, StarFund is an ideal partnership for us, because ultimately the mobile entrepreneur wins."It is no disrespect to StarFund to suggest that these entrepreneurs will want to be sure that this is correct. In this case, developers must submit their concepts up front, including the name of their proposed game, information on its goal and theme, its proposed business model and other details.Before doing this, most will want to know how the investment will be structured, and how the resulting intellectual property and revenues will be divided once games are released. With competition in the funding space, the more information that is provided, the better.In February this year, mobile gaming community MocoSpace launched its own $1m fund to invest in HTML5 mobile web games, as part of a drive to get more developers working with its MocoSpace Game Platform. In March, the first three developers got funding: New Game Town, Joyplay and Kooky Panda. In this case, developers interested in the fund were invited to email MocoSpace for more details, presumably including any questions about the strings attached to any investment.MocoSpace isn't even the only company offering cash for mobile web games – SPIL Games hasrun its own contestsfor HTML5 developers, albeit at a lower level with a $50k prize fund. Back in the native world, publisher TinyCo launched a $5mTinyFundin May 2011, offering up to $500k per game, plus marketing and business assistance.In March, OpenFeintpartnered with Chinese publisher The9to fund developers with a specific focus: porting iOS games to Android, and integrating the OpenFeint community service. At the LeWeb conference in December 2010, meanwhile, Japanese social games publisher DeNA's chief executive Tomoko Namba explained that the company waslooking for partnerships and acquisitionsin the social mobile games space, and stressed that this could include investments or pure marketing partnerships.Finally, at the pricier end of the investment sector, US venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers has invested in several games startups from its iFund, including Booyah and ngmoco. Admittedly, at this level of funding, the terms are much clearer, although subject to negotiatAll this is without discussing traditional publishing deals, which don't always come from the usual suspects. Halo developer Bungie, for example, is turning mobile publisher with itsBungie Aerospaceinitiative, offering financial resources, but also PR and marketing, QA/testing, launch support and technical assistance. Mobile operator Orange also recently partnered with an indie studio, Bristol-based Mobile Pie, for the release of social music iPhone game My Star.In short, there are more potential sources of finance for a developer with a good idea for a social mobile game than ever before. All have strings attached to a greater or lesser degree. Savvy developers know they need to ask plenty of questions before submitting their ideas. Less "show me the money", and more "show me the business terms and IP/revenue splits".
Apple has won a preliminary ruling from a US trade panel judge that Taiwanese handset maker HTC Corp infringed on two of the California company's patents.The win may mean Apple can go after other Android handset makers for licence fees, though the decision must still be ratified by a full panel. It could also allow Apple to demand an import ban to the US against HTC before the end of the year.HTC, which uses Google's Android operating system for its smartphones, said it would "vigorously fight" the infringement finding.The risk for Android handset makers is that it is very likely that all Android devices infringe the patents, which were filed in 1994 and 1996,says Florian Mueller,an expert on the many patent battles swirling around the smartphone business.Apple has also filed complaints against Samsung and may be able to attack Motorola on the same basis.The relevant patents cover "system and method for performing an action on a structure in computer-generated data",US patent No. 5,946,647, filed in 1996 and awarded in 1999.Essentially, it allows elements such as email addresses or phone numbers to be recognised so that when they are activated via a mouse or, on a smartphone, by a finger, they activate the relevant program.Apple implemented this idea as "Data Detectors", implemented byApple's Advanced Technology Group– which Steve Jobs disbanded when he took over as chief executive in 1997.Apple pointed out the infringement in detail, noting that Android contains an "analyser server" for "detecting structures in the data" and further details that exactly align with the outline of its patent.The second patent, "real-time signal processing for serially transmitted data", ofUS Patent No. 6,343,263.The patent was applied for in 1994 and will expire in 2019, and Apple provides a detailed breakdown on why it infringes in court documents filed with the ITC.The ruling came from an International Trade Commission judge on Friday, but the full commission must rule on 6 December whether it will uphold or reverse it.Though preliminary, the ruling will be closely dissected as it is one of the first between Apple and other smartphone makers that use Android.HTC is already believed to be paying Microsoft $5 per handsetfor licensing rights after acceding to claims that its handsets' implementation of Android infringed a number of Microsoft patents.Microsoft has also demanded – and received – payments from at least three other companies building products around Android in the past month.Asked for comment by Reuters, Apple reiterated a previous statement by Jobs that "competitors should create their own original technology, not steal ours." In an emailed statement, HTC lawyerGrace Lei said: "We are confident we have a strong case for the ITC appeals process and are fully prepared to defend ourselves using all means possible."Smartphone technology has spawned a wealth of patent litigation. Apple also has filed complaints against Samsung Electronics, which also uses the Android software platform. Apple recently settled a case against Nokia.Android-based smartphones have outpaced iPhones globally but Apple is gearing up to launch a new iPhone this year, which is likely to give it a big boost.Apple initially accused HTC of infringing 10 patents, but six were dropped from the case for various reasons. The ITC judge ruled that HTC infringed two of the remaining four.The ITC is a popular venue for patent disputes because it can bar the importation of devices made with infringing technology. Often parallel lawsuits are filed in district courts to try to recoup any financial damages.The case is at the International Trade Commission, No. 337-710.
A burst of 10 apps for your considerationUK 3G SurveyThe BBC has unveiled a new Android app that aims to track the true coverage of 2G and 3G networks around the UK. Developed by Epitiro, it will track the coverage strength for every user that downloads it and feed the data back, eventually resulting in an interactive map of the nation's coverage. The project runs for the next month, and the app is available this morning.AndroidMirror Football LiverpoolTrinity Mirror has released an Android app devoted to Liverpool Football Club, with historical facts and figures, photos, audio and video taken from the Daily Mirror's archives.AndroidGulliver in LilliputGraphics firm Digital Aria has launched its first iPad book-app: Gulliver in Lilliput. It's the latest app to attempt to bring the format of physical pop-up books to Apple's tablet, with additional game elements.iPadFlesh Freeze iPadGwilym Gold is a musician who's worked with music producer Lexxx to come up with a new digital music format called Bronze. It changes a song every time you play it, albeit non-interactively. Gold's track Flesh Freeze is the first to get the treatment, and this app shows how it works.iPadMourinho Tactical BoardJose Mourinho has his work cut out coming up with tactics to unseat Barcelona's footballing dominance in Spain, but he also appears to have put his name to a new iPad tactics app. Costing £34.99, it's aimed at managers at all levels to prepare their tactics. The App Store era equivalent of salt and pepper pots, sort of.iPadYooMoteYooMote is one of the more polished non-official attempts to put an iPhone front-end on YouTube that we've seen. It looks good, and can also be used to watch YouTube on bigger screens, functioning as a remote control app.iPhoneFeed-'Em Fred (The Chef of Dread)There is certainly no shortage of interesting new book-apps for iPad at the moment. Feed-'Em Fred is for three-and-ups, with a food theme and some suitably gruesome details to appeal to pre-schoolers.iPadHildegard SingsOne Hundred Robots' new iPad book-app focuses on opera – or at least a hippo who wants to be an opera star. It offers 28 pages of illustration and interactivity, with music to match.iPadMusic - Oxford CompanionGot £35 to spare and an interest in music? The Oxford Companion to Music has a new iOS app developed by Handmark, with more than 8,000 articles covering all genres and forms.iPhoneBeer SharkAnd finally... Imagine if that famous iPint app had social networking features. Well, imagine no more: Beer Shark is a Japanese app that helps users swap contacts, photos and videos by pouring a virtual beer into one another's iPhones.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
And that are you up to on this wet and overcast Monday?
