Not at all, though three interesting security holes have popped up in the past week, demonstrating that while the Mac OS X operating system is fairly secure by design, it is by no means invulnerable.First up was a worm dubbed Leap-A or Oomp-A, which spreads via the iChat instant messaging program, and exploits a loophole that Apple created for software developers to let them load code into programs. Malware writers realised they could do that, too. The Macintosh Daily Journal discovered an article - now deleted - onMachacking.netthat seems to have been a how-to explanation, and was almost certainly used by someone to write Leap-A.The damage was minimal: no files deleted, and perhaps a few hundred users affected. "Had this appeared on the Windows platform, we wouldn't even be talking about it," David Cole, director of Symantec's Security Response, toldBusinessweek.com.Next was Inqtana.A, another worm, which spreads via Bluetooth, so it requires Bluetooth-enabled machines. It was addressed by a security update last year. (Though the existence of security patches hasn't stopped Windows viruses exploiting them.) Again, few were hit.These are worms, not viruses, because worms are self-replicating programs in their own right, while viruses need to attach themselves to other programs. Arguably, worms are worse than viruses. Equally arguably, both were Trojans, and both required user interaction to spread.Third, and discovered on Tuesday, is a vulnerability in the Safari browser, which will download and execute malformed "shell scripts", which can be disguised as "zipped" (archived) pictures or movies. (As there's no point in zipping either format - they don't become appreciably smaller - that's your first clue.) One six-character script could delete every file you own, so it's worth paying attention to it. So far it has only been demonstrated, but hackers are bound to try to create real and nastier versions. If you don't use Safari, you're safe.It is a coincidence that these holes have appeared as Apple has begun to shift to Intel processors; there was an earlier demonstration of a Trojan program for OS X, in which files could be labelled as pictures but ran as programs. Apple dealt with that fairly quickly. Updates to protect against these holes are expected soon.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Because they aren't selling. While it might not surprise you that UMD, a disc format that can only be played in one company's machine, costs more than a DVD, and can't be (easily) played through a TV might not have a great chance of thriving, the same thought clearly didn't occur to Sony's executives.But now reality is biting. Variety magazine reports that three film studios - Paramount, Warner and, intriguingly, Sony - are "cutting back on movie releases for the PSP" because "while comedies that appeal to the core young male gamer demo are doing well, execs say other PSP movies simply aren't selling".This is, of course, slightly at odds with the hyperbolic joy expressed by Sony last June, when you could have been excused for thinking that UMD would sweep all before it. There were 5 million PSP owners, and 100,000 UMD films had been sold. "DVD sales are flattening. Consumers already have bought all the film titles they want for their DVD. The publishers are looking for new ways to sell discs," Sony's then European president Chris Deering had told Reuters.Apparently, though, consumers weren't really looking for new ways to buy films; they were just holding off while the various format wars (now potentially involving HD-DVD and Blu-ray) sorted themselves out.Still, there are plenty of copies of Spider-Man 2 (below) on UMD. That's because it was made by Sony Pictures, and bundled with the first million PSPs sold. But studios also face another reality check: retailers only have limited shelf space, and with the competing formats, existing and promised, there just isn't room to show everything - and particularly not all the different formats of the same film.The DVD format, meanwhile, has the last laugh, because it will play in any DVD player, (pretty much) any PC, Xbox and PlayStation 2 onwards. While Sony is reportedly looking to sell a PSP adapter that will allow you to watch a PSP film on your TV, it may not be enough to save a format that threatens to better even Digital Compact Cassette (http://tinyurl.com/rutgq) for brevity of existence.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
BlackPlayStation 2, Xbox &pound;39.994/5Still can't get hold of an Xbox 360? Take solace from the fact that the best games always come out as a console is about to be superseded. Take Black: its graphics would not disgrace a next-gen console and just about anything in the game can be blown to smithereens. For that reason, Criterion made it single-player only, billing it as the first "Hollywood-style" first-person shooter, which means it has super-destructive weaponry, spectacular explosions and almost no plot. Despite the graphics and decent AI, which sees soldiers using shields and outflanking you when necessary, it feels less innovative than it looks. It's hard, too, and while it will satisfy enthusiasts, it's not a classic.SBAnimal Crossing: Wild WorldNintendo DS &pound;29.994/5This offbeat title offers a quirky experience that gradually gets under your skin. The premise is simple - create a character, enter village and start your new life. Paying off your mortgage is the obvious challenge, but getting to know your quirky neighbours is equally as important.The game follows your DS's internal clock, so checking the in-game noticeboard is crucial. For example, Saturday may see a flea market enter town. Characters that come and go and real-time holiday events add to Animal Crossing's dynamic illusion. There are always things to do - write letters, collect fruit, go online and visit friends' towns - and popping in each day to see what's going on becomes a pleasant habit. Ignore the twee visuals, this offers a charming slice of leftfield gaming.GHStar Wars: Empire at WarPC, &pound;39.993/5Now that the Star Wars movies feel as "long ago" as the scrolling text always claimed, games must keep the memory alive. The Force is strong in terms of voiceovers, music and production values and, with two campaigns allowing you to play as either Rebel or Empire forces, there's plenty of gaming for your money. On the negative side, it takes on far too much; sweeping through deep space dogfights, ground battles and inter-planetary Sim genres, with no great consistency. At times there seems far too much going on, at others you feel manipulated by the storyline. Liberal use of hero units like Millennium Falcon will keep the fans happy enough, but for the rest of us it's epic but ultimately shallow - a bit like the recent movies, in fact.MA
In 1997, the University of Abertay, Dundee, launched the first masters degree in computer game technology. Abertay's pragmatic course teaches coding for console systems, 3D animation, game music composition and technical direction. It is surely a welcome addition to the industry, which employs more than 8,000 skilled people in the UK alone and is worth &pound;25bn worldwide.Games development requires expertise, and hiring graduates fast-tracks game development. Arguably, the release from the burden of training should allow developers to create new technologies. The industry has encouraged the university games courses, sending development kits to departments and staff to seminars. Since Abertay's flagship programme launched almost nine years ago, 165 games-related degrees have sprung up across the UK, a trend equalled in other countries around the world.The technical aspects of computer games development seem appropriate topics for a classroom. Teaching these skills at undergraduate or postgraduate level seems an absolutely logical step. But what can these degrees teach future designers? These creatives write the stories, design the characters, develop the gameplay. Do game-design degrees have what it takes to inspire new and exciting directions of entertainment?At the moment, in-store displays groan under computer games with hackneyed paradigms and established genres. The most inventive games to have captured critical success, from the recent Katamari Damacy series to the phenomenally successful Sims series, have been brought to interactivity from designers who come from different disciplines, and therefore have a new attitude to what gaming is and what it can be.I am often asked what kind of course a prospective games designer should enrol in. While I have no personal experience of working in the industry or attending one of the courses, I tell people to get a degree in English literature, psychology, world religions, history, creative writing or philosophy. This is echoed by a number of long-term jobbing designers I have spoken to, none of whom has a games-related degree.In most creative industries, the people from the outside have the brightest ideas and the cleverest approaches to solving problems. Art history experts will bring different perspectives to bear on the design of entertainment from people who have dedicated their time to completing Super Mario Bros.A lateral approach will be responsible for a broader range of interactive experiences, which will break the cycle of mainstream games made for gamers by people who know about games. Designers who come from the outside may require a bit more work, but the results should push games to the next level.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Lara Croft is hitting the comeback trail. With the April 7 release of Tomb Raider: Legend, the seventh iteration of the game that is her main star vehicle, one of the best-known icons of the videogame world is to make her first outing since 2003's disastrous Angel of Darkness. This year also marks the 10th anniversary of her first appearance. But can she still cut it in the 21st century?Croft was once the girl who could do no wrong. The first Tomb Raider game, for the PlayStation, launched in 1996 to universal acclaim. One of the first 3D action-adventure games, Tomb Raider was the first such game to feature a female hero. As Ian Livingstone, a founder of the publisher Eidos, puts it: "Men like her because she's athletic, sexy, intelligent, independent and adventurous, and women like her because she's ... athletic, sexy, intelligent, independent and adventurous."Livingstone says the success of Tomb Raider took Eidos by surprise: "We only pressed 100,000 units for the launch, but it ended up selling 5m." Hyperbole quickly followed. In April 1997, then-Liverpool goalkeeper David James cited all-night sessions playing Tomb Raider as the mitigating factor behind a dreadful performance on the pitch. The following month now-defunct magazine the Face put Croft on its cover. Even the Economist wrote about her. She has advertised Lucozade and Land Rover, and been played by Angelina Jolie in two critically panned but commercially successful films.Eidos and developer Core Design churned out a Tomb Raider game each year between 1996 and 2000, and the public lapped them up: the series has sold a combined 30m units. But disaster struck. Core Design failed to get to grips with programming for the PlayStation 2 and the sixth Tomb Raider game (the first for that console), subtitled Angel of Darkness, was repeatedly delayed. When it arrived in 2003, it was riddled with bugs. The developers licked their wounds and Core Design's executives, many of whom were by now Eidos board members, bailed out. Eidos entered a slump, culminating in its takeover last year by the much smaller UK games publisher SCi.Tomb Raider's fall from grace led to Eidos's demise, which is ironic since, as Livingstone affirms, Eidos would never have become a major games publisher without the franchise. In 1995, Eidos produced video compression technology, and was looking to move into games, though it had only one major title - Championship Manager - on its books. Livingstone says: "We had the opportunity to buy the publisher Centregold. As part of the due diligence process, I had to go round their developers. The last game they showed me was Tomb Raider, with Lara in all her glory." After seeing that, Livingstone rang business partner Charles Cornwall to give the green light.After the Angel of Darkness debacle, Eidos committed what some games fans saw as sacrilege by instructing Crystal Dynamics, a developer based in San Francisco, to start work on the next Tomb Raider game with a back-to-basics approach. "We did a lot of focus testing," says Livingstone. "People wanted her to return to her roots with lots of tomb raiding rather than wandering around the empty streets of Paris. And they complained about the controls and camera."Extreme makeoverThe result is Tomb Raider: Legend, to be available for PS2, Xbox and PC, while Xbox 360 and Sony PSP versions will follow. Croft has had a makeover by creator Toby Gard, resulting in a less pneumatic bust and an extended set of animations that see her, for example, hinting where you should move her next by moving her gaze.The game has been well received by reviewers, but is Croft now an anachronism? William Latham, director of Games Audit, which advises games companies and investors, thinks so. "The public has moved on to Grand Theft Auto-style games. Older-style games are not doing as well as anticipated. People want a different sort of entertainment now."There's a limit to how far publishers can milk franchises. Publishers are making too many games; they are a bit stuck for ideas, given the size of the investment necessary to create games. Producing demos is very expensive, and publishers won't commit to projects from just a design document."Livingstone argues that Croft's iconic status will help Tomb Raider become the first games franchise to make a comeback after imploding, and cites another icon of British fiction: "James Bond is still alive in the 21st century. Lara has survived the test of time and there's no reason to suggest she can't be even bigger. Once you've broken through that awareness barrier, you become a permanent fixture, and she's the most famous digital icon in the world."Cool moves, not hot pants, are the key to successI never felt the first Tomb Raider game was about Lara Croft. It was the gameplay that was special - like the feeling you got when you saw the T-Rex charging up the valley towards you. She was just a refreshing avatar. Since then, Croft has become a household name. Unfortunately, for much of the non-gaming population, they have mentally filed the name under "geeky gamer masturbatory material".It's partly unfair. Eidos has been strict about the use of its heroine and didn't allow her to take part in Playboy's now infamous digital dames feature.However, it did endow her with very sizeable, almost comedy breasts, that will haunt her for ever. Plus, she is always strikingly inappropriately dressed for "work". If I was off to get shot at, I'd want to do it in something more akin to a Kevlar romper suit, than a tank top and hot pants. Women don't want to look sexy in combat. They want to look not dead.The new Croft has a more realistic smaller-breasted look (although midriff and excessive leg display is still de rigueur). But damage has been done - in poor game design decisions as much as artistic ones. It is great gameplay, not smaller boobs, that will bring the love back. I really wish her well, because it is a sad day when even a virtual woman gets overshadowed by her own cup size.Rhianna Pratchett&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The most interesting thing on the internet is not the brouhaha about branding a clutch of disparate happenings as "Web 2.0", it is the way consumers are becoming producers. It was started by eBay, which turned buyers into sellers, and claims that more than 68,000 cottage industries in the UK depend on its website for at least a quarter of their income.Empowerment is spreading fast as exploding possibilities enable music listeners to become sellers, film viewers to become producers, writers to become publishers and, of course, opinionated people to have their own electronic soapbox by setting up a blog. New opportunities arrive every week. Takeeasyart.com, a British company written about in the Guardian at the start of the dotcom boom and still going strong.As well as selling and framing pictures, it is about to enable artists and photographers to showcase their work to a large online audience and either sell original work (without a commission) or use Easyart's new print-on-demand service to produce high-quality reproduction prints. After paying a &pound;99 annual membership, the artist retains 20% of the retail price. This is the equivalent of print-on-demand in the publishing industry. Meanwhile,Fotolibra.comsells your photos (new or antique) to professional buyers. This week, in response to a client's request, it appealed for ones that reproduced exactly the scene of famous paintings.We could be entering an era of sustained online creativity. The curious thing is its absence so far, particularly in the mobile phone arena. The dog that hasn't been barking is the bedroom programmer. The 1980s were a golden age, as young programmers cut their teeth on the easy-to-access coding of the Spectrum and BBC B computers. The same people are now behind Britain's successful computer games companies (even if, sadly, they are all owned, or being stalked, by overseas companies). Why hasn't this happened with mobile phones? Why aren't there thousands of ideas being dreamed up by bedroom operators taking advantage of the much simpler coding needed for mobiles compared with computers?I don't know the full answer but a large part must be down to the myopia of telcos who - even now - are denying content providers a decent revenue share. Only last week I was talking to someone whose free service was generating revenue for operators but hadn't been able to negotiate a penny for himself. Where is the incentive to create new ideas when oligopolistic operators snatch up to 100% of revenue?And the charges! Over the weekend I looked at the details of a morning last month when I uploaded 40 photos directly from my phone to my Flickr website via Shozu. The size of files for photos taken in near-identical conditions on a "basic" photo setting ranged, for no rhyme or reason, from 33.5KB to more than 200KB, costing from 6p to 39p. At 6p the service could generate huge demand, but at 39p you might as well bury your business plan. If operators want to start a new industry they should offer revenue shares of at least 50%. iMode, which is highly successful in Japan, gives 80%.The ability to make music, take videos with digital cameras or phones and upload them could unleash a new genre of creativity. The market is vast. As Tony Pearce, of Player X, says, games "only reach the market of people who play games whereas video is much bigger because everyone understands video and everyone likes movies". The number of music-enabled phones sold by Nokia last year alone is far higher than iPods sold since their launch.And this is before considering the dizzy potential of GPS satellite positioning, the applications for which are almost unique to mobiles. At the moment, nearly all the content on mobiles is reconstituted crumbs from Big Media's table. It would be a tragedy if a new era of creative possibilities were stifled at birth by the kamikaze pricing policies of operators.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
If you want to start a rumour, how about that Google is going to build its own nuclear power station? The logic is easy. Larry Page, the company's co-founder, reportedly sees "running out of power" as the biggest potential threat to Google, and the electricity needed to run its "server farms" - tens of thousands of power-hungry computers storing billions of internet pages - could soon cost more than the hardware. Partly this is because Google is based in California, where the state solved its 2001 energy crisis by borrowing $10 billion to buy electricity at massively inflated prices. But the rest of us are heading in the same direction.We live in a world where the use of chip-based computers and consumer electronics devices is increasing rapidly, while supplies of oil and natural gas are diminishing perhaps even more rapidly. Worse, the threat of global warming means we should now be decreasing our energy use, like the Japanese, not increasing it. And although each individual PC or peripheral may not use much electricity, when you have a billion of them, it adds up.For home users in the UK, of course, most conservation efforts should be applied to heating and hot water systems, which account for about 85% of the energy used in homes, compared to about 13% for lighting and electrical appliances. The top priority is loft insulation, which is why the government offers grants for it. Double glazing, blocking draughts, drawing curtains, lagging hot water tanks and turning down thermostats all make a difference. So does swapping 100W light bulbs for high-efficiency 20W versions, and turning off electrical equipment such as TVs and PCs at the plug. (Standby mode uses surprising amounts of energy.Powering downSadly, it's impossible to say how much power a PC uses without measuring it, because of variables such as the type of motherboard, the speed of the chip and the power of the graphics card. (A fast graphics card can use more power than the processor.) PC power supplies can range from about 150W to about 650W, and will actually draw more than that during peak loads. However, PCs use much less power when idling and the US Energy Star programme - which PC manufacturers have been following since 1992 - is aiming to get the power consumption on idle below 50-60W.The simplest approach is to use the PC's power-saving software to turn the screen and hard drive off and then suspend the whole system after a specified time. The most expensive option is to use a screen saver that "donates" processor cycles to a worthy cause, but will run your PC at a high level most of the time. PC Pro magazine found that it cost &pound;79 a year to run an Athlon Shuttle PC with normal use (eight hours a day then switched off), but running SETI@home made that &pound;400.The situation is improving thanks to market trends towards flat screens and the use of portables rather than desktop computers. LCDs use much less power than traditional monitors, and by design, most notebooks use less power than most desktops. At the extremes, the 1GHz Pentium M Ultra Low Voltage chip uses only 5W whereas Intel's hottest chip for gaming, the 3.73GHz Pentium 4 Extreme Edition, can consume up to 115W.However, Intel has done a U-turn on its processor design goals, which should help. The Pentium design drove up clock speeds (and power consumption) to build the fastest chips. In 2002, Intel executives still assured me that "gigahertz is far from over" and looked forward to a 4.7GHz Pentium codenamed Tejas. In 2005, however, still short of 4GHz, they announced a new mantra: "performance per Watt".Alistair Kemp, a spokesman for Intel, says the company has now developed "a new microarchitecture that will be coming out in the second half of this year". New chips codenamed Merom (for notebooks), Conroe (for desktops) and Woodcrest (for workstations and servers) will, he says, "reduce average power use quite substantially". With Conroe, the reduction will be from about 95W, for a fast Pentium 4, to about 65W.Performance per Watt is also important for the arrays of servers in corporate data centres. Luiz Andre Barroso, principal engineer at Google, has already warned that "the possibility of computer equipment power consumption spiralling out of control could have serious consequences for the overall affordability of computing, not to mention the overall health of the planet."In an article called The Price of Performance in the professional journal ACM Queue (http://tinyurl.com/m4udr), Barroso expressed concern at the cost of providing computers, with electricity overtaking the cost of buying the hardware in the first place. Running costs are exacerbated because companies generally try to utilise their servers as heavily as possible 24/7, or 8,760 hours a year. Faster processors also generate more heat, so computer rooms require extra cooling. This uses more electricity, costing more money.Cool solutionOf course, there's nothing new about any of this. The late Seymour Cray, the world's greatest supercomputer designer, spent a lot of his time on plumbing. In 1985, he resorted to pumping a non-conducting liquid called Fluorinert over the Cray 2's electronics to cool them. When mainframes ruled the world, IBM packed its mainframe chips in ceramic Thermal Conduction Modules with chilled water flowing through pipes to conduct away the heat. Some of today's high-performance games PCs use similar techniques, and it's still an option for servers - but no one really wants to go back to plumbing.In his article, Barroso suggests that multiprocessor chips are "the best (and perhaps only) chance to avoid the dire future envisioned above". What has changed recently is that multicore processors - with more than one processing element on a single die - have finally entered the mainstream, and many PC manufacturers are now shipping systems with Intel Core Duo processors that deliver more performance per watt than their forebears.Indeed, the idea has even reached the home market. Microsoft's Xbox 360 games console has a processor with three IBM PowerPC cores, each of which can run two programming threads: the result is a single chip that can work like six. Sony's forthcoming PlayStation 3 will use an IBM Cell chip with multiple processing elements.Not even low-power multicore chips will solve the power consumption problem permanently, but they should at least buy us a few years breathing space.And if people factor the cost of power consumption (and cooling, where required) into their computer purchasing decisions, both for commercial and ecological reasons, this will put pressure on the manufacturers to do even better in the future.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
US warranties already cover ethanol useI have two observations on the cover story (A sweet solution to fuel troubles, February 16): virtually all cars sold in the US have warranties that cover 10% ethanol use. There is no damage at that level, and car makers are being disingenuous if they suggest otherwise. Cellulosic ethanol is not as far away as the article made it seem. Iogen, in Canada, is producing ethanol from wheat straw, and Abengoa is building a similar plant in Spain.Reid DetchonExecutive director, Energy Future Coalition, Washington, DC&middot; In my school days in South Africa, my father used in his car Union motor spirit supplied by Natal Cane By-products which contained a large proportion of alcohol (cane spirits) and was identified by its strong smell of rum. It had an octane rating of 100, while petrol's was about 72 and had the reputation of attacking the diaphragm of the fuel pump. That was around 60 years ago, so what's new?Michael BalfeWestbury&middot; Hectares grown for fuel displace hectares that could be grown for food. We must reduce, not just replace.Dax FarrerAmersham &amp; Wycombe College&middot; In Sweden Volvo makes E85 versions of the V50 estate and the S50 saloon. These run on an 85% ethanol/15% petroleum mix.John ClachanUppsala, SwedenVanity publishingVictor Keegan thinks Print on Demand (PoD) services will give "the publishing industry... a shock". From the tortuous process he describes (Opinion, February 16) I don't think so. Also, it sounds as if essential steps, many of which are legal requirements, were not followed. His book contains material written by others. Did he obtain copyright permission? Did he arrange for the deposit of copyright library copies? Did his cover carry a barcode, did his imprint page include the printer's name and address, did he have an index etc? Most of the PoD services' products I've seen are shoddy and only feed the vanity of unpublishable authors. Real publishers have been using PoD for years to keep in print slow-selling titles that would otherwise have gone out of print. Those PoD copies meet legal and style requirements.Professor Iain StevensonDepartment of Journalism and Publishing, City University LondonFunction double-up&ge;I can't avoid the suspicion that if the "overt" ID cards register is crippled by opposition amendments, proponents will try to sneak in the functionality they want under the cover of seemingly tangential schemes. If a primary selling point of the ID cards database is that it would be a single sign-on for government systems, why have local authorities decided to also develop Government Connect? Or rather, if people are given the opportunity to sign up to GC, what's the point of ID cards?www.ministry-of-information.co.uk/blog/Lowest common themeCDs always have been digital. When Charles Arthur (Do Amazon and Google plan to rival the iTunes store? February 16) says "people who buy a CD [can] also get digital copies of the music", presumably he means lo-fi MP3.But why would anyone who cares about hi-fi do that? Around 500 CDs can be stored on a &pound;100 250GB external HD to be replayed at top quality, and that content can be ripped to an MP3 player.Perhaps we should talk about "high-quality digital" (CDs) and "low-quality digital" (MP3), rather than hijack the term digital to refer to the ubiquitous lowest common denominator of MP3.Chris RigbyUffculmeFree option to wizardsCongratulations to Kate Bevan for pointing out the people creating evil install wizards. I recommend she tries Linux instead. The installation always creates a root user (equivalent to Windows administrator), and a user. I have found it a far more stable platform, it's more than adequate for my requirements, the code updates are generally implemented a lot quicker, and it is free.John BuftonCambridge&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Master your domainI didn't really understand your answer about mail forwarding. How can one "log on and redirect email from a blocked service to an unblocked one"?Peter Davis, Nigel Anderson and othersJack Schofield replies:One advantage of having your own domain name, eg myname.com, is that you can change your mail service without changing your email address. This involves registering your own domain name, having it hosted somewhere, and setting a mail forwarding address. Domain name resellers may offer name hosting, mail forwarding, web forwarding, a mailbox service and sometimes other facilities, and these will be reflected in the price. The main thing to watch is that the domain name is registered in your name, not theirs. Your name and address should be the ones listed if you look up the domain name using a Whois server. This avoids being held to ransom if you decide to move your name to a different host.Now, I have a domain name registered withEasily.co.uk, and this includes hosting (on Easily's domain name servers or DNS) and mail forwarding. I can log on to my Easily account and paste in an email address that specifies where to send any email addressed to me@myname.com (or whatever). This could be an ISP account such as me@ntl.co.uk or an independent service such as me@hotmail.com or me@bluebottle.com: it's my choice. All mail to me@myname.com will arrive in the specified mailbox, and will be sent from that mailbox, not from Easily's mail server. It's just a redirection service.At some point I will change my ISP, or have another reason to use a different mail server. For example, mail to or from NTL or Hotmail or Bluebottle might be blocked. If so, I can log on to my Easily account and paste in a different address, such as me@gmail.com. This takes a minute. Any mail addressed to me@myname.com will now be forwarded to me@gmail.com and will never go anywhere near (say) me@ntl.co.uk. To continue to collect and send email, I will also have to set up the new account (me@gmail.com) in my mail software, such as Outlook Express, Thunderbird or Eudora, etc. However, the thousands of people who use my personal email address (me@myname.com) will not have to change anything. In effect, I will have changed my mail server but kept the same email address.DVD hazardsI've read about copy-protected CDs affecting one's computer. My question is, should one avoid playing copy-protected DVDs?Name withheldJS:At the moment, DVDs do not seem to be a problem, but Heise Online recently reported that "Two German Video-DVDs use a new copy-protection scheme which creates a security risk on Windows machines. The copy protection mechanism called Alpha-DVD was developed by Settec, a Korean company spun off from electronics giant LG" (www.heise.de/english/newsticker/news/69608). To protect your PC, turn off the AutoRun feature so that copyprotection software cannot be installed without your agreement. If you right click your drive and select Properties, there is a tab for AutoPlay: select the action: "Prompt me each time to choose an action." Sadly, turning it off properly means editing the Registry. For details, see Microsoft Knowledge Base (http://support.microsoft.com/kb/q155217).Cheap printingWith the price of printer ink exceeding that of blood, I have thought of buying a dot matrix printer once again. My last one used only one ribbon in five years! Have you any suggestions?John RussellJS:Good dot matrix printers are still available. However, prices are relatively high because the hardware is not subsidised by excess profits from expensive ink-jet cartridges. The Epson LQ-300+ is a good choice, though the FX-80 - an immortal classic - continues in the form of the Epson FX-890. But dot matrix printers are still slow, noisy, dusty and don't do decent graphics.Why not consider a personal laser printer instead? Prices start at &#163;60-&#163;80 (Samsung ML-1610 aka Dell 1100) for monochrome models and about &#163;220 for colour (Epson AcuLaser C1100). The HP LaserJet 1022 looks good value at around &#163;125, and there's a 1022nw with built-in wireless. The Kyocera FS and Brother HL ranges are also worth a look.Backchat&middot; Nicolas Blaza asked about being redirected toGoogle.co.ukand people asked "How do they do that?". In general, it's done by compiling a database of IP addresses, the companies that own those addresses, and then the locations where they are generally used (see the Geolocation FAQ atwww.dnsstuff.com/info/geolocation.htm). It's an inexact science. For examples, trywww.ip2location.comandwww.dnsstuff.com/tools/city.ch&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Almost certainly: more details have dribbled out, which suggest it will follow a subscription model, under which you will get an Amazon-branded player (perhaps made for it by Samsung) that will come preloaded with songs. According to the Wall Street Journal, Amazon is talking to the four big record labels - Vivendi, Sony BMG, Warner and EMI - in the US about launching the service, probably in the summer.Subscription services operated by companies such as Napster let users download unlimited amounts of music, but not "own" them directly; if you let your subscription lapse, the music disappears. However, there is always an option to buy a specific track, which is then yours to keep.Amazon faces big challenges in trying to get into digital delivery - principally, putting in place a robust infrastructure to serve millions of users. However, it has two big headstarts over other rivals: a strong brand name, and excellent web design for purchasing.In the UK, the high street chain Dixons says it will pre-load "selected MP3 players" with free music to give new bands a break. The 60 preloaded songs will come from Pulse Rated (www.pulserated.com), a satellite and internet radio station that plays music from "unsigned and emerging artists worldwide". Examples include Death of Fashion, Pilots of Japan, The Fused, Skitchy, Phoenix Quarter, Donderdag, Penny Foster, Leeann Akers, Lucas and Imperial Leisure. No, us neither.Bryan Magrath, Dixons' marketing director, said: "We won't be giving Simon Cowell sleepless nights yet, but we believe we can play a role in helping break new and emerging music talent."The selected MP3 players are Logik's 512MB and 1GB Flash models, retailing at &pound;39.99 and &pound;64.99.Meanwhile, at the time of writing Apple was counting down towards the billionth song downloaded from its iTunes Music Store service. With sales running at more than 3m a day, and the counter showing 995m sold, by the time you read this, someone will already have walked off with a 20in iMac, $10,000 music voucher and 10 iPods, and have had a scholarship named after them at a music school. It certainly leaves Amazon with a mountain to climb.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Downstairs I have three shelves stacked two deep with VHS video cassettes; up in the loft, six full storage boxes. That is 24 years of my TV memories. But a year ago, the future of home video was looking dodgy. At least, it was to me. Dixons, the unofficial arbiter of all that is technologically in and out, had stopped selling VHS recorders, while the price of the seductive new DVD recorder technology had dipped to the magic &pound;200. Obviously, it was time to trade in the old video. The recorder's sales blurb looked promising: it's quick, it's slick and simple, it does all the alphabet soup of DVD formats, you get up to eight hours recording on a disc, and discs give a big saving on storage space over VHS cassettes. I was sold.A bit of guesswork eventually yielded the gist of the "English" section of the instruction manual. I switched on the TV, fed in a blank disc ... and waited. Two minutes of the TV show were lost while it went into "format" mode. First lesson learned: new discs take time to be formatted.I pressed the record button ... and waited. Twenty seconds later, the little red record light came on, by which time I had lost the whole title sequence of the TV show, plus the opening scene. Second lesson learned: you have to give this thing prior notice of what should be its principal task. You must hazard a guess on exactly when the trailers will finish and your favourite soap will begin. Two-nil to the old VHS, which was ready to use and started to roll instantly.I have since learned several lessons. On my machine, two hours of recording time really means one hour 47 minutes, so unless you remember to pause for all the advertising breaks in Inspector Morse, you must use the four-hour setting. Switching DVDs mid-programme? No can do - it has to go into writing mode before you can eject the disc, so that's another two minutes lost, and then two more minutes for the new disc to format while you grind your teeth helplessly. And that's on a good day. Mine sometimes gets stuck in writing mode for an hour or two, goes into a sulk and won't respond to any further instructions, including hitting the off switch. If I unplug it (the only way to start again from scratch), the recording is lost and the disc has to be binned.Never mind, you say, just put in a new disc. Except if it's faulty - and a lot are - tough luck. You won't know it's duff until you have reached the "finalise" stage, when you will be told your disc has an error and can't be read ... so, another disc in the bin, and yet another lost recording. And you call this cutting-edge technology? Eight-nil to VHS, I think. Can I get a VHS machine on eBay?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Apple has hit one billion songs downloaded from the iTunes Music Store since it was launched in April 2003: the magic number was hit "at roughly 12:38am EST on Thursday morning" (thanks,The Unofficial Apple Weblog) - that's 5am in the morning of Thursday. (Which is intriguing, because when we looked at about 7am it seemed to still be grinding on. More in a moment).The billionth song "Speed of Sound" was purchased as part of Coldplay's X&amp;Y album by Alex Ostrovsky from West Bloomfield, Michigan and as the grand prize winner he will receive a 20-inch iMac®, 10 fifth generation iPods and a $10,000 gift card good for any item on the iTunes Music Store. In addition, Apple will establish a scholarship to the world-renowned Juilliard School of Music in his name to commemorate this milestone.(One could say dangerous things about what sort of music the scholarship should avoid, but...)"I hope that every customer, artist and music company executive takes a moment today to reflect on what we've achieved together during the past three years," said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO. "Over one billion songs have now been legally purchased and downloaded around the globe, representing a major force against music piracy and the future of music distribution as we move from CDs to the internet."Read itall here.Apple of course has an aim in this, besides just making money: to keep its single-price mode, against the urging of the music labels to introduce tiered pricing. Apple (well, Steve Jobs) argues that people can understand single-pricing models. (It's true - ever been in those shops where everything costs a pound?) The labels argue that music of different vintage and demand deserves different pricing. Point being that there's no way of proving which one is right; but Apple does have a nice round result to show off.Now the calculations. One billion songs downloaded (note: not all paid for; there have been free singles and other giveaways) since April 28 2003. That's 1,000 million in 1032 days - a simple average of 968,000 songs per day.More recently the song download rate had increased to somewhere between three and four million per day across all the different regions of "iTunes Stores" (a strange concept, imposed by the record industry). But we thought that something intriguing happened in the last few hours before the billion mark. We'll seek confirmation, but at the start of the week we confidently expected that the billion mark would be passed on Wednesday around noon GMT. Instead, it took about 18 hours more. Were people holding off purchasing songs in the faint hope of being the ones who got the magic billion?Meanwhile, there's still plenty of room for the companies selling subscriptions. Apple still hasn't shown any interest in getting into that market. But it's early days yet.Oh, and one more thing. The billion sales seemed to be achieved without any extended downtime, unless we missed something. Interesting how we now take such reliability for granted in this web world.
Arthur Tillyard opened the UK's first coffee shop in Oxford in 1655 and it became the meeting place for the Oxford Coffee Club. The club included Oxford's leading scientists, such as Sir Robert Boyle, and eventually it led to the founding of the Royal Society, one of the world's greatest scientific organisations. Edward Lloyd opened a coffee shop on Tower Street in London in 1688, and that one turned into Lloyds of London, insuring the world. Now coffee shop are the places where internet businesses get going -- in San Francisco.Greg Olsen has written aboutGoing Bedouinand Jackson West echoes this idea inThe New Office Space:My own experience helping to organize the WebZine conference pretty much echoed this. No office space was rented, communication was primarily through email lists and a private wiki, and meetings were held at cafes with free internet, with notes and ideas quickly disseminated to those who couldn't attend. When a contact was needed to help out with services such as advertising, sponsorships or donations, cell phones came out and calls were made, and issues were often resolved before the meeting was even over. Even during the conference itself, local cafes served as press rooms, panel development forums and, of course, somewhere to get some lunch.The problem is that coffee shops are there to serve coffee and cakes etc, and not provide shelter for venture capitalists and other freeloaders. West adds:Coffee to the People in San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury is trying to come up with guidelines, and the issue of coffee shop etiquette is a popular topic of discussion among digerati. Some cafe owners only share the WEP or WPA key with paying customers, limit the number of wall jacks to recharge batteries, or shut down wifi on the weekends to encourage offline socializing.He provides a useful list of cafes in San Francisco "chosen by popular acclaim and personal recommendation. Any one of them will keep you fueled with caffeine, connected online and give you a chance to network with fellow travellers." There are many other suggestions in comments to the post.If someone at Ritual Coffee Roasters or Coffee to the People can turn this phenomenon into another Lloyds of London, it would be amazing, but not without precedent.
Everybody expected a new product to come out of Google, but I don't recall anyone predicting that this week's effort would beGoogle Page Creator.According to the home page: "Google Page Creator is a free online tool that makes it easy for anyone to create and publish useful, attractive web pages in just minutes." The main attractions are:No technical knowledge required Edit your pages right in your browser 100 megabytes of free storage space Free hosting on your own site at http://yourgmailusername.googlepages.com"Google Page Creator is still in an early testing phase" and you need a Gmail account to use it. However, current functionality (theFAQsays you can't createsites, though you can create as manypagesas you like) means it's pretty much limited to information, personal and vanity pages.Don't rush: the site also says: "Due to heavy demand, we are unable to offer new accounts for today."The unofficialInside GoogleandGoogle Blogoscopedhave more details.Dave Winercomments: "Where is the Mind of Google these days? Seems to be back in the mid-90s, re-discovering Geocities. Give me a ring when there's at least some rudimentary content management in there." Have a look at this commentinside Google Page(168K GIF).
Xiaxue -- one of the world's top bloggersThe Technorati 100 list of top blogs is far from fixed, and 65 blogs that were on it last May have already fallen off it, according toan analysis by Tristan Louis. And that includes 45 of the 50 blogs in the bottom half of the table.Boing Boing held its top spot. Otherwise it's interesting to see Engadget (now second, was sixth) overtaking Gizmodo (was fourth, now ninth), and the stunning success of Post Secret (up from 67th to fourth).Top ranked blogs that no longer make the Technorati 100 list include Wil Wheaton (was 15th), Kuro5hin (39), Joi Ito (54), Lawrence Lessig (69), B3TA: We love the web (79), and Dive into Mark (96). Stunning newcomers include The Huffington Post (now 6th), Blog di Beppe Grillo (11), Lifehacker (14), MSN Space Alliance (20), Joystiq (28), TechCrunch (30), Xiaxue (40) and Paul Graham (49).The appearance of blogs like Xiaxue and Pink Is The New Blog show the list getting much less geeky.The figures seem to demolish the idea that the Technorati 100/top blogs/A listers act as gatekeepers to the blogosphere. Tristan concludes:Because the overwhelming majority of the blogs listed in May 2005 experienced a downward spin, it seems that the concept of a network effect is widely overstated. In fact, there seems to be the equivalent of a reverse pull, where being a Technorati 100 is only a short lived glory.
"The UK's Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) has upheld complaints from three television viewers that adverts depicting scenes from Activision title Call of Duty 2 and its current generation console counterpart CoD2: Big Red One were misleading, and declared that they must not be shown again in their present forms," reportsGamesIndustry.biz.The adjudication, published today, is likely to send shockwaves through the industry as it focuses on the question of whether pre-rendered footage is an acceptable representation of a computer game - in its defence, Activision didn't argue that it was, but rather that using pre-rendered footage was "common practice".Comment: Three consumers complained that the graphics in the ads were better than the graphics in the games. It's good to know that at least a few consumers are not as gullible as much of the games press when it comes to pre-rendered graphics.
I didn't really understand your answer about mail forwarding. How can one "log on and redirect email from a blocked service to an unblocked one"? Peter Davis, Nigel Anderson and othersOne advantage of having your own domain name, eg myname.com, is that you can change your mail service without changing your email address. This involves registering your own domain name, having it hosted somewhere, and setting a mail forwarding address. Domain name resellers may offer name hosting, mail forwarding, web forwarding, a mailbox service and sometimes other facilities, and these will be reflected in the price. The main thing to watch is that the domain name is registered in your name, not theirs. Your name and address should be the ones listed if you look up the domain name using a Whois server. This avoids being held to ransom if you decide to move your name to a different host.Now, I have a domain name registered with Easily.co.uk, and this includes hosting (on Easily's domain name servers or DNS) and mail forwarding. I can log on to my Easily account and paste in an email address that specifies where to send any email addressed to me@myname.com (or whatever). This could be an ISP account such as me@ntl.co.uk or an independent service such as me@hotmail.com or me@bluebottle.com: it's my choice. All mail to me@myname.com will arrive in the specified mailbox, and will be sent from that mailbox, not from Easily's mail server. It's just a redirection service.At some point I will change my ISP, or have another reason to use a different mail server. For example, mail to or from NTL or Hotmail or Bluebottle might be blocked. If so, I can log on to my Easily account and paste in a different address, such as me@gmail.com. This takes a minute. Any mail addressed to me@myname.com will now be forwarded to me@gmail.com and will never go anywhere near (say) me@ntl.co.uk. To continue to collect and send email, I will also have to set up the new account (me@gmail.com) in my mail software, such as Outlook Express, Thunderbird or Eudora, etc. However, the thousands of people who use my personal email address (me@myname.com) will not have to change anything. In effect, I will have changed my mail server but kept the same email address.
I've read about copy-protected CDs affecting one's computer. My question is, should one avoid playing copy-protected DVDs? Name withheldAt the moment, DVDs do not seem to be a problem, butHeise Onlinerecently reported that "Two German Video-DVDs use a new copy-protection scheme which creates a security risk on Windows machines. The copy protection mechanism called Alpha-DVD was developed by Settec, a Korean company spun off from electronics giant LG". To protect your PC, turn off the AutoRun feature so that copyprotection software cannot be installed without your agreement. If you right click your drive and select Properties, there is a tab for AutoPlay: select the action: "Prompt me each time to choose an action." Sadly, turning it off properly means editing the Registry. For details, see Microsoft Knowledge Base article 155217 (http://support.microsoft.com/kb/q155217).
With the price of printer ink exceeding that of blood, I have thought of buying a dot matrix printer once again. My last one used only one ribbon in five years! Have you any suggestions? John RussellGood dot matrix printers are still available. However, prices are relatively high because the hardware is not subsidised by excess profits from expensive ink-jet cartridges. TheEpson LQ-300+is a good choice, though the FX-80 - an immortal classic - continues in the form of theEpson FX-890. But dot matrix printers are still slow, noisy, dusty and don't do decent graphics.Why not consider a personal laser printer instead? Prices start at £60-£80 (Samsung ML-1610aka Dell 1100) for monochrome models and about £220 for colour (Epson AcuLaser C1100). TheHP LaserJet 1022looks good value at around £125, and there's a 1022nw with built-in wireless. The Kyocera FS and Brother HL ranges are also worth a look.
Is Google mad, or just bad at reading? Or might it have the best interests of authors and publishers at heart? I ask because it has two big book-indexing programs under way. In Google Book Search, publishers license Google to index the content of commercially sold books, which will then turn up as search results. (How to generate the results is a challenge in itself. For example, Sebastian Faulks's On Green Dolphin Street isn't about dolphins, streets or the colour green; it's about alcoholism, infidelity and jazz.) Some of the content of the book - no more than 80% - will be readable online, though not all at once. Adwords adverts will pay the publisher, and Google, if someone clicks on them.Google is also spending $200m (&pound;114m) on Library Search, scanning the content of millions of books from four top US libraries and Oxford University's library. Crucially, though, it has not asked publishers, who might still hold the copyright to some of those books, for their permission. It simply sucks the content into the Google computer array.At face value, that is blatant copyright infringement: look in the front of any book and you'll find: "No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher." Publishers yowled. Google paused the project last August, then restarted it. In October, the American Publishers' Association filed suit; the case is outstanding.But while Google insists that the benefit to publishers is that they could sell a few more books, others are less sure. "They're proposing to give away content that has previously been paid for," says Nigel Newton, chief executive of Bloomsbury Publishing. "Publishers' ad revenues would be minuscule; so it amounts to nice content for Google to build up its proposition, but gives away intellectual property for free." Perhaps, he suggests, if Google were willing to pay for that access, his view would be different: "There has been a value chain of author, publisher and reader since Gutenberg."Some in the industry wonder whether Google's long-term aim isn't to set itself up as a sort of instant publisher; that once it has all those books in its index, it could generate a print-on-demand shop that would bypass publishers, shipping a book to you even though it is officially out of print, rather as Victor Keegan described last week (http://tinyurl.com/89f4r).I don't think that will happen, because Google isn't into shipping atoms. The Google Video store doesn't sell physical videos, it tells your hard drive how to reorganise itself to include a new video. That's Google's aim - to organise data.Jens Redmer, director of Google's Book Search program in Europe, looks hurt at suggestions that the scheme is anything but altruistic and legal. It must help authors, he says, for books to be found. (Perhaps that's true, but personally, I'd rather argue the publishers' case before a judge.) Google gets the book contents free, gets to sell adverts against them, and the publishers get ... what? The promise that they might sell some more books. It certainly sounds like something for nothing. And once again, it's Google that gets the something, and everyone else who is left scrabbling for the scraps.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You'll probably be sick of her by April, but Lara Croft and her impending return in Tomb Raider Legend is the maingames storyin today's Technology section. Despite being premature in assigning the game critical success - the previews have been positive (aren't they always) but full reviews are scarce - the article makes a good point. Namely, post-GTA gaming tastes not being overly receptive to "older-style games". Lara may remain the face of gaming to the wider world but Legend will need to live up to its name for Tomb Raider to regain its former pre-eminence.Elsewhere thereviewsare in, with Black, Empire at War and Animal Crossing getting a mild grilling. Actually only Empire at War disappoints (I haven't tried Black yet) but AC is worth your time, if only to up the amount of DS's I see in public. I've been on trains and planes in the last week - I've seen literally 20 people playing on PSP, none on DS. Is DS a guilty little secret?Anyway, the other gaming article is from our very own Alekswith a lookat University gaming courses and the need for a wider range of influences feeding into the development process. And yes, that means wider than an appreciation of graphic novels and Top Gear.
It's almost the weekend - get chatting.
Calling all digital artistes -Second Lifecreators Linden Lab have announced a $4,000 fellowship for aspiring and creative types to spend the summer working in SL to explore what kinds of new things can be made in the virtual world. From the release, sent out to educators week before last (I was away, please forgive me):This $4,000 fellowship will provide a young artist with a chance to be free for a semester or summer to explore the use of the digital world of Second Life as an artistic medium. In doing so, we hope that we will see Second Life used to even greater potential in the expressive arts to the benefit of both the Second Life culture and the broader world of art.This is a fellowship in the visual and performing arts or creative innovation, which means it covers everything from music performance (SL-based Gorillaz?), theatre (Hamlet in BDSM gear?), Photography, Poetry, Architecture, and others I've not even begun to consider. The mind boggles.Interested parties should head to SL's Education sitehere. The deadline's 15 March. They've mentioned that this is thefirstfellowship. That suggests there may be more. This may be the beginning of something quite interesting.
Last week Ibloggedabout the extremely well designed mobile phone game, Skipping Stone, which won Game of the Year at 3GSM, but was sadly overlooked by Java handset owners when released in the UK last summer.Well, in response to my article, and some badgering from me, the game's UK publisher, I-play, is now offering Skipping Stone forhalf pricefor two weeks. You can find out morehere. That's £2.50 to experience a quite lovely piece of offbeat Korean psychadelic pebble-lobbing one-button gaming action.Next week I shall try and get EA to do the same thing with We Love Katamari...
The mobile phone industry's main annual shindig,3GSM, took place last week in Barcelona. For the past couple of years games have figured quite highly on the agenda, with network operators seeing them as a way of increasing data traffic and phone manufacturers using them to make expensive feature-rich handsets more desirable in a saturated market.But this year, a fresh-faced newcomer, mobile TV, has hit the scene, seemingly relegating games (and other previously vaunted entertainment services such as MMS and video downloads) to the gloomiest recesses of the industry party.So did anything interesting happen for games at the show? I don't know because I couldn't get a flight out there (long story). But I know a man who does - industry analyst Stuart Dredge ofInforma. So here's what he made of 'the greatest show on earth centred around mobile communications technology'(TM)...*Oh alright then, tepid...So, what games caught your eye at the show this year?Sonic The Hedgehog was the star of the show - men dressed as giant hedgehogs are par for the course at E3, but 3GSM delegates still get quite excited about them, and the iFone booth was manic all week. The game looks good too, a really good conversion job, although I've got reservations about how easy it is to play Sonic at full speed on a mobile keypad.There was lots of 3D stuff, mainly on the 3D hardware stands (Nvidia, Texas Instruments etc). Although some of this was demos, some were full games - e.g. a corking version of Need For Speed on the Nvidia stand. A related development is the new Texas Instruments initiative, which includes EA, Nokia, Activision and lots of others, to set out standards for native gaming (games using the hardware acceleration, etc, inside the phones). It'll be important for this to take off.RealArcade and Mr Goodliving are doing the official Gorillaz mobile game, which looks very nice. A mix of proper Gorillaz animations, with simple 'hit one/two keys' gameplay. And a nice retro feel too, featuring mini-games based on each character.The IMG Awards (which - declaration of interest - I helped judge) threw up some interesting stuff. AR Tennis won a couple of the categories - it's a table tennis game on your phone, but uses the camera so you can use your phone as a bat. If that makes sense. Very innovative. But my fave was actually a game called Monkey Pole Climb, done by one bloke in the UK. Three monkeys, three poles, and coloured balloons which send them up or down. It's genius (and won the best gameplay category). More infohereThere's going to be about 273 soccer games out this summer, but the two that caught my attention were Mr Goodliving's Playman World Soccer, which is the first mobile football game to be truly easy to control. And also HandyGames 'Flitzer', where you play a streaker legging it round the pitch.Mforma are doing a new Spider-man game, which cuts out all the fighting and puzzling, to focus on the building-swinging bits. It looks cool - one-thumb rather than complex action-adventure.Finally, the twisted part of me liked Danish firm Kiloo's Happy Tree Friends game, more mini-games, including one where you drag a rabbit along from a helicopter setting it on fire, smacking it into things, electrocuting it, etc. Always good.Where there any interesting new ideas going on in mobile gaming? Online multiplayer? Social gaming? New techy concepts?There were some techy demos of multiplayer gaming, and definitely some good stuff being done in that area. There's still more buzz around connected gaming though, which could be high-scores, buddy lists, tournaments, or extra content downloads (new tracks and levels, etc). It's easier to do, but also maybe appealing to a wider base of players. Oh, Siemens launched some multiplayer stuff, including a football game where you point the camera at your foot and swing to kick, but I didn't see that.A big theme at the games panels was pricing, actually. It's become clear that if you just sell mobile games for £5, a lot of people won't buy them - especially prepay users who often don't have much more than £5 of credit at any one time. So there's a general push towards more flexible pricing this year - e.g. pay 50p per play, or £1 to rent a game for 3 days, or subscriptions where you pay £1-2 a month to play a game. 3 has been doing this in the UK, but I think a lot of operators are looking at it.On the subject of social gaming, with Habbo Hotel looking into going mobile, and a few interesting social game concepts floating around, does Informa see this as a potential new 'saviour' fore mobile gaming?I don't think saviour is the right word - one of the best ways to sell more mobile games is to: a) make more good ones, and b) stop selling so many rubbish ones, especially those based on brands. That's not to say branded games aren't important - they are - but there's a real focus on quality at the moment from operators and publishers.But yeah, social games are really interesting - particularly as they show off one of a phone's key strong points. I'd highlight Hotties, which is from InfoSpace's US development studio. It's a bit like Am I Hot or Not, on mobile, with flirting, messaging and competitions built in. And Digital Chocolate's Mobile League Sports Network, which is half fantasy football and half betting with play money. You predict what's going to happen in upcoming sporting events, get points for correct predictions. But the cool bit is you can sign up friends for mini-leagues. There's a lot of technical issues holding these things back in Europe, but this sort of thing will come. And of course, it'll be interesting to see how things like Myspace.com approach mobile too.Any other interesting enertainment apps at the show?I saw a few companies producing shortform animations for mobile. E.g. one-minute cartoons, usually based on what works well on the Web (i.e. very twisted, very funny, and usually featuring animals doing violent things to one another). Some were based on existing brands (e.g. Happy Tree Friends), while others were completely new for mobile. I think it'll be interesting to see if this takes off - at least as a separate strand to what the operators are doing with mobile video. It will also be interesting to see if operators and/or the content providers can introduce a viral element to this content, as that's one of the key ways this kind of stuff spreads online.The big new thing in the mobile adult content world is two-way video-calling - basically webcam girls on your phone, who you can talk live to. I certainly wouldn't want the businessman sitting next to me on the train home to be doing this! But the adult companies seem sure that there will be a demand for it.Are any manufacturers proceeding with gaming-specific phones? Or at least phones with very good specs for gaming?Not really gaming specific phones, as such. There's a few in South Korea, where operator SK Telecom has a service called 'gxg' which is 3D mobile games - and reportedly has over 300,000 users with dedicated gaming handsets. But in the West, music and TV seem to be the main drivers for content-specific handsets.
Many fans might feel relieved now that the Football Association has accepted that Wembley stadium will not be ready for May's FA Cup final; at least they know in which city they'll need a hotel. But the news is less good for blind and visually impaired sports fans, for access facilities at Cardiff's Millennium Stadium - the Cup's temporary home - fall well short of what had been promised at the new Wembley.The key to blind fans' enjoyment of live sports is audio description, a technology using portable receiver packs to pick up a live commentary transmitted by infrared or radio. The lightweight packs let visually impaired fans follow the game through an earpiece while still soaking up the atmosphere.Wembley's developers have promised disabled supporters' associations that the new stadium will feature a state-of-the-art, high-frequency radio system transmitting live commentary to all parts of the ground, in what would be the world's biggest system of its kind.But an investigation for the Guardian by specialist publication E-Access Bulletin (www.headstar.com/eab) has found that the system's contractor, Sennheiser, has not yet begun deployment. That casts doubt on the stadium's ability to offer a working system even once it opens.Wembley's original plan was to use infrared to relay the commentary around the ground. That was scuppered when technicians realised that sunlight would interfere with the signal whenever the retractable roof was open. Another plan, a large-scale wireless network, might interfere with equipment such as car alarms or microwave ovens in the area. Finally, using a broadcast-band frequency could be too costly: the communications regulator Ofcom has told the FA it would have to purchase a broadcasting licence for every event.But the Millennium Stadium is hardly any better. In 2003, Wayne Busbridge, of the Visually Impaired Supporters Association, sued the stadium on the basis that it had broken a promise to provide audio description facilities for that year's Cup final. He received &pound;700 compensation in an out-of-court settlement - which he accepted on the basis that the stadium installed modern equipment. Yet three years later, Cardiff still only provides radio coverage of the match with receivers tuned to BBC Radio Five Live. "It's a lot better than it was," Busbridge says. "But it still leaves a lot to be desired."Wembley does have time to get it right before it opens. A spokesperson for Wembley National Stadium Limited said the ground still intends to have a functioning audio description service on from the moment the first ball is kicked.Visually impaired fans will be hoping this promise is kept. But like the millions of fans who have already heard so many unfulfilled promises about the stadium, their expectations will not be high.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's Thursday, it's time for the print edition. And in a packed programme...Money for nothingWho pays to download Firefox? You might not, but hundreds of new sites are trading on web users' ignorance by selling inadequate or unnecessary technical support for free software. Danny Bradbury investigates.Should Lara be entombed?Ten years on, Tomb Raider's digital heroine faces her toughest mission yet: her comeback. By Steve Boxer.Google books court dateCharles Arthur: Google is spending big bucks to scan millions of books - without publishers' permission.Operators' greed puts creativity at riskVictor Keegan asks: why aren't there thousands of ideas being dreamed up by bedroom operators taking advantage of the simple coding needed for mobiles?Wave goodbye to the daily grindMicrowaving rocks to release the minerals inside could save the mining industry millions and halve its use of electricity, reports Natasha Loder.What they can't teach you at game design schoolAleks Krotoski: In most creative industries, the people from the outside have the brightest ideas and the cleverest approaches to solving problems.Game reviews: Black (PS2); Animal Crossing: Wild World (Nintendo DS); Star Wars: Empire at War (PC)Visually impaired hang on Wembley's promiseWork on a system vital for blind fans to enjoy live sport has not even begun at the new national stadium, write Carli Hawes and Dan Jellinek.Shocking news for power usersIf Google is worried that its giant servers will struggle to find the electricity they need, what hope is there for domestic PC owners, asks Jack Schofield?TechnobileMike Whitley: The DVD recorder said it would be quick, slick and simple. It is - if you want to make drinks coasters.Read this week's lettersSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andplease include your full name and post town.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Newly asked questionsHave Apple Macs become breeding grounds for viruses?Not at all, though three interesting security holes have popped up in the past week.Will Amazon really launch a music download service?It has two big headstarts over other rivals: a strong brand name, and excellent web design for purchasing.Why are studios cutting back on films for the PSP?Because they aren't selling.
Sitting innocuously on a bench in a laboratory in Chelmsford is what has been advertised as the "world's most powerful microwave". It's a slightly grubby white plastic oven that was, apparently, bought at Currys by researchers at the technology company e2v. In anticipation, I have brought a bag of potatoes. Trevor Cross, e2v's technical director, reckons his souped-up beauty can cook a baked tatty in 0.02 seconds, although he warns that it might not really resemble a potato when it is done. It might be vapourised.The microwave, a Proline Microchef, seems to have been something of a ruse to get me down here. E2v does, indeed, have the world's most powerful microwave. But the guts of it are not in the back of the Proline, but in a seven-foot-high steel cabinet to one side. The researchers simply use the Proline as a cavity that they bolt to the guts of the machinery. But when things are 'waved, they are done with plenty of oomph. While most ordinary consumer microwaves put out around 600-800 Watts of power, the bits in the cabinet put out a peak power of 4m Watts - although only for one millionth of a second.Increasing the yieldThe point is not to zap the evening meal faster, but to figure out whether microwaving rocks can help increase the yield of ore for mining companies. Another potential benefit is that it may lower the amount of energy consumed by the mining industry. At the moment, mining companies use mills like giant tumble dryers to break chunks of ore into smaller pieces that can be crushed into powder. It is inefficient and time consuming. Typically, only 1% of the energy input is used to create new surfaces for ore extraction, the rest is turned into noise and heat.Microwaving rocks sounds strange but, as Paul Burleigh of e2v explains, the idea is quite simple. Mineral-bearing rocks are a composite of the mineral and the stuff around it. Some parts of this composite will absorb more microwaves than other parts, causing selective heating and then fracturing along the boundaries of these different materials. It is like microwaving a treacle tart: the treacle gets hot but the pastry doesn't. So with rocks, a quick blast is all that is needed to weaken the rock, which can then be thrown into a traditional grinding mill. In fact, says Dr Cross, with some minerals you can put them in, hit cook, and then crumble the results in your hand.It seems to work. A small sample of vermiculite, a mineral that is known to expand when heated, comes out of the microwave looking like a piece of puffed popcorn. Samples of gold ore, too, seem to have been nicely disassembled. The trick, apparently, is for e2v to find the right size of cavity in which to microwave the rocks and the right frequency, intensity and timing of the microwaves. It is a bit like cooking. Except the rocks need short pulses of microwaves.The idea came from Sam Kingman of Nottingham University, who has spent the best part of the last decade working on rock microwaving. He has found that it can disintegrate rocks as effectively as grinding them up, but at half the cost in energy. This could be important because Dr Kingman has calculated that up to 5% of the world's electricity is used to grind up rocks to release the minerals. The technique may also increase the amount of ore liberated from a lump of rock, and the speed with which it is done. He believes that if this technique were built into the design of a new mining plant, it would save tens of millions of pounds in capital costs.Commercial effortToday, e2v's research work is focused on trying to commercialise this technology on behalf of an Australian mining research group called Amira International. The organisation manages collaborative research efforts on behalf of the big mining companies in the world. So the kind of rocks e2v is testing are the sort of thing that the sponsors of the project, which include Rio Tinto, will find commercially interesting.Burleigh estimates that the ore industry uses 420bn kWh every year. If this technique can halve this amount, much less carbon dioxide would be released into the atmosphere. To put this figure in perspective, he says the entire UK uses about 350bn kWh every year.The next step, he says, is to custom build some equipment that can process a lot of ore - putting it bit by bit in the microwave isn't really a starter.As for my baked potatoes, Burleigh mutters something about "health and safety". I head home supperless.&#183;Natasha Loder is science and technology correspondent at the Economist&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Users of Apple computers are being warned to stay alert after being hit by the latest in a series of security problems. The most recent flaw, which was discovered by a German student, could expose users to so-called "drive-by downloads".It is the third serious flaw uncovered in the past week, following the emergence of the Leap-A Trojan, believed to be the first ever virus for the Macintosh, and the Inqtana Bluetooth exploit.Some experts believe that the recent success of the Californian firm - it has now sold more than 42m iPods worldwide - has made it a target.
Day2Day Activities has an interesting post onHow they named companies, and one of the interesting things for me is that I wrote several of the entries. It's not that I'd ever heard of the site, of course. What's happened is that Day2Day A has ripped it offwithout acknowledgementfrom a Wikipedia page that I've worked on:List of company name etymologies.Still, one good thing is that the comments to the Day2Day page provide info for more Wikipedia entries ;-)And another good thing is a Guy Kawasaki post,The Name Game, where he offers some advice on naming companies. Some of that is the voice of experience:Avoid the trendy.Mea culpa: we made a big mistake when we started what is now Garage Technology Ventures. We called it "garage.com." Yup, with a lower case "G." It was a brief lapse into modesty and eBay envy. We had a great slogan too: "We put the capital in you, not in our name." (Later, we considered an even better slogan: "We take the FU out of funding.")Finally, a comment links to an amusing Salon article, also calledThe Name Game.
Chat chat chat.
Photo publisher Perfect 10 "says it's plagued by copyright pirates who pay its $25.50 monthly fee and then reproduce its copyright images on sites that are indexed by Google and incorporated in its image search feature," reportsCNet. It therefore sued Google, and has got a (preliminary) result:US District Judge A. Howard Matz ruled Friday that Perfect 10, an adult-oriented Web site featuring "beautiful natural women" in the nude, has shown that Google image search probably infringes copyright law "by creating and displaying thumbnail copies of its photographs."The Los Angeles judge said he would award Perfect 10 a preliminary injunction against Google, and gave lawyers for both sides until March 8 to propose the injunction's wording.The interesting bit is that you can use a phone to access Google Mobile's image search and save the thumbnails:Those scaled-down images are similar to what Perfect 10 offers as a subscription service through U.K.-based Fonestarz and could, the court ruled, harm the market for Perfect 10's subscription-based image sales."Google's thumbnail images are essentially the same size and of the same quality as the reduced-size images that (Perfect 10) licenses to Fonestarz," Matz wrote.CNet's story also has a link to afriend-of-the-court brief(PDF) filed by The Electronic Frontier Foundation supporting Google. There's an EFF press releasehere.
From an advert for a PR company in GamesIndustry.bz:In a video game magazine first, Bastion successfully hypnotised Mark Robins, the Deputy Editor of the Official Xbox Magazine, and age-regressed him to ten years old in a groundbreaking project that saw him review the Xbox release of Disney and Walden Media Presents The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe through the eyes of the game's intended market.Taking place in Future Publishing's London offices and lasting around 45 minutes, the hypnosis session was undertaken by a professional and seasoned hypnotist and will appear as part of a four-page feature in the April issue of The Official Xbox Magazine, on-sale 16th March.Comment: I could put something here but I'm not sure I'd get a judge with a sense of humour....
"It's really very simple. Just tell us who your favorite bloggers are and you'll get a custom page that lets you monitor, search, and share your Favorites!" saysTechnorati."Give it a try."Once you've entered your favourites, it works as an aggregator and lets you do keyword searches on your favourite blogs, which sounds useful. You can also share your favourites, so if you want to read the most recent posts from Arianna Huffington's 36 favorite blogs,you can.Comment: I posted this on theTechnology blog, but if you do try Technorati, the button could be useful.....
It still feels like winter, although the crocuses pushing up in the garden seem to think it's spring. This optimism seems to be shared by racing cyclists, many of whom, like me, are dusting off their best wheels and getting ready for another season of competition.Some pro teams have started already, in the warmer climes of Malaysia and California, but the European professional calendar does not get into gear until early March, with the Paris-Nice stage race. British amateurs are a hardy breed, however, and some started their racing more than a week ago at the traditional south-coast season-opener, the Perf's Pedal. The rain lashed down; there was so much muck on the roads that the riders who finished looked like coal-miners; a couple of horses on the circuit were startled and bolted, causing several cyclists to crash (fortunately, without serious consequence). All in all, a classic British road race.No wonder there are not many of us. The sport's governing body in the UK, British Cycling, was pleased to announce recently a 20% membership increase - up to about 19,000 in 2005. Of these, just over half take out a racing licence. In other words, this is a sport that, nationally, has at most 10,000 active participants. A friend of mine who runs a magazine company told me the other day that he publishes a title for polo players that has a print run of 20,000. Which suggests that, on any given weekend, there could well be more people chasing around a field on a pony trying to hit a ball with a mallet than there are people doing bike races. No disrespect to chukka fans, but this is a depressing thought.I did my first race last Saturday and one of the pleasures was seeing familiar faces and renewing acquaintance with people I raced against last season, and the season before, and so on. If this subculture is a cosy niche where it feels as if you know everyone, that may be because, after a while, you actually do.The paradox of this marginality is how amazingly good at producing world-class cyclists Britain is, considering we're up against countries such as France and Belgium where cycle sport is like a religion. In the UK, there is scarcely such a thing as a professional cyclist - which is why almost every British cyclist of talent and ambition goes abroad to pursue a career. The peculiarity of this situation should please my colleague Simon Jenkins, who last week attacked the idea of the Exchequer footing the bill for training our Olympic athletes, because many of our most successful cyclists (such as triple medal-winner Bradley Wiggins) are on the payroll of French, German, Dutch or Italian teams. Beautiful, eh?Incidentally, there is a version of polo played on bicycles. But getting enough players for a game isn't easy.Bike DoctorDear Matt,Aircraft holds are pressurised and air-conditioned with basic temperature control in the main holds. The hold pressure decreases with the cabin pressure and increasing altitude, so it is probably a good idea partially to deflate a bike's tyres if it is to be stored there. But if you remove all the air, ground handling could damage the wheel rim.John Tindall, ex-BA flight engineer/pilotAnd your question is? Only kidding. I'm afraid Bike Doctor misinformed readers last week that aircraft holds were not pressurised and that bicycle tyres needed to be deflated to avoid, er, exploding inner tubes. As several correspondents - not all former pilots - were kind enough to point out, this is erroneous. There is some pressure change during flights, but in practice nowhere near enough to cause explosions - unless your tyres are already inflated to maximum pressure.It is perfectly safe, therefore, to leave your tyres inflated - although airlines may still request otherwise. In fact, as advised above, it is a good idea to leave in some air to protect against rough handling.
"It's really very simple. Just tell us who your favorite bloggers are and you'll get a custom page that lets you monitor, search, and share your Favorites!" saysTechnorati."Give it a try."Once you've entered your favourites, it works as an aggregator and lets you do keyword searches on your favourite blogs, which sounds useful. You can also share your favourites, so if you want to read The most recent posts from Arianna Huffington's 36 favorite blogs,you can.
Once merely a strip of road connecting Birmingham to Carlisle, the M6 is now a massive, searingly pricey, fuel-gargling coupe from BMW, with exhausts like drainpipes and a scathing indifference to the idea of travel at speeds below 95mph. It comes with a 10-cylinder engine, which is a good four cylinders over the odds by the reckoning of most coupes, and appears to be powered by thunder and lightning. If I were buying one, I would have a word with the dealer about the possibility of throwing in a crash helmet.To get the most out of it, you will need a motorway of your own or, failing that, a motorway to yourself. How else to appreciate the full neck-twanging impact of the M6's "electronic launch control system" which, in BMW's words, "gives perfect F1-style starts from zero to maximum speed"? Because you need that, right? Monza or the B6265 east of Ripon, it's the same thing. You need to get into the first corner early, because traditionally that's where the chaos breaks out.Launch control is just one of a batch of products filtered down into the M6 from the BMW Williams F1 department, others being the engine management system and the use of carbon fibre to reduce weight. The unpainted carbon fibre roof is meant to signal the M6's bare-chested racing cred, while underscoring the fact that it is Juan Pablo Montoya's brother by another mother. By this means, BMW hopes to create a car that can go wheel-to-wheel with other fundamentally impractical hair-raisers by the likes of Ferrari and Aston Martin, which have, respectively, history and charisma on their side in this area.Obviously, the M6's engine is a touch more user-friendly than an F1 version. Those are built to do 300 miles then get put away in a box, whereas the M6 would hope to cover that distance in a couple of hours and go on to provide at least a few years of unbroken motoring pleasure. Even so, on ignition, the five-litre engine sets up a low burble that will be familiar to anyone who has ever stood in the vicinity of a racing car. Move off, and that burble broadens into a tight, aggressive but rounded-off roar - the sound of top-notch engineering in action, and also of money being carelessly lobbed into a furnace.You get a seven-speed gearbox which you can tool about with in 11 ways. There are six manual programmes, wherein gear changes can be executed with the flippers on the steering wheel, and five automatic programmes, all selected via a button near the gearshift. Pick the wrong programme and you can end up lurching around like a kangaroo with blisters. Get it right and things rapidly become dangerously exciting.Some clever play with mirrors beams your speed in orange digits on to the windscreen, just below your sightline, where it functions as a ghostly reminder or a badge of lunacy, depending on your approach. Force the accelerator down hard enough in the tightest of the sports settings and it's like being bench-pressed into your headrest by Hulk Hogan: 20 minutes daily of accelerating and braking would serve, I imagine, as an efficient upper-body work-out, albeit not a particularly aerobic one.Who is this tall-wheeled monster for, apart from executives in BMW's own racing arm? In one of those marketing calculations you would like to know more about, BMW suggests that many of those interested in buying an M6 will already have two cars. That, and not far south of &pound;100,000 to spend on another one. Is that you? Are you a footballer? Anyway, you can't have one - not yet. BMW knocked up a measly 400 on the first run, and they were all spoken for.Would you want one, though, assuming they were available and you were in the market for &pound;80,000 worth of third car? One hears the arguments of those who resist the appeal of this kind of transport. Not even the most creatively written press release could make the M6 sound eco-friendly, even if it was the only car you ever owned. Especially if it was the only car you ever owned. Every time you press the accelerator, the international price of oil goes up by around $2 a barrel. Drive for four hours without a break, and another foot of ice shears off the Arctic shelf. Drive for eight hours and Norfolk disappears under water.Also, it couldn't be more of a boy's toy if each one came with its own Noel Edmonds. And like many self-consciously tasteful objects, the M6 flirts openly with spectacular tastelessness. At the same time, though, what a ride, and what a car. One would rather be in the M6, surely, than on it.ModelBMW M6 coupePrice&pound;80,755Top speed155mph (limited)Acceleration0-62mph in 4.6 secsConsumption19.1mpg (combined)Emissions357g/km (road tax band F)At the wheelJose MourinhoThey'd rather walkSir Alex FergusonOn the stereoBryan AdamsEn route forCobham
Just in case you missed it, the Guardian newspaper ranthisstory yesterday, following up on a Reuters report regarding the launch of PS3. "Sony's quest to reaffirm its domination of the game console market could be hampered by delays in finalising the specifications for technology in its eagerly awaited PlayStation 3 console," says reporter Justin McCurry from Tokyo."The company is reportedly waiting for the final specifications, decided by industry consortiums, for the PS3's Blu-Ray DVD drive and input and output technology for video and sound. "We're waiting for them until the last possible minute, but the launch could be pushed back if they're not decided soon," the spokeswoman said, adding that the firm was not thinking about an alternative launch date."This follows aresearch notefromMerrill Lynch(a financial management and advisory company and not, as I had momentarily imagined, a character from Coronation Street), that not only speculates over a delay for the machine, but also suggests that each unit will cost$800to produce.So is thisreallygoing to be a problem for Sony?Obviously there are immediate consequences - as the newspaper report mentioned, "yesterday Tokyo stock exchange reacted badly to speculation about the launch. Sony shares fell 3.6% at 5,300 yen (£25.82)". But will a delay of several months give Microsoft an unassailable lead in the next-gen war?It's difficult to imagine that this would be the case. Xbox hasyet to makea truly significant impact in the heartland of the videogame industry - Japan - and although this is not as important as it used to be (the west is producing its own console-shifting mega games now, the likes of GTA and EA's sports titles just as strong as Japanese brands like Resi Evil, Tekken, Metal Gear Solid and Gran Turismo), it's a key battleground.It could also be argued that the PlayStation brand is now just too strong to lose significant market share - after all, the word itself has become a mainstream synonym for games console. It's worth remembering though that the same thing happened to the name 'Nintendo' in the late-eighties - but look what happened when the more powerful N64 arrived onto the market a year after the upstart PSone...'Nobody knows anything' said famed screenwriter William Goldman, referring to Hollywood's inability to predict a box office success. The same applies here. The same applies everywhere.
I've been watching the unfolding of a new Alternate Reality Game,Perplex City, onBoing Boing. We've covered ARGs in the past, but most often these are retrospective reports, rather than in-the-action experiences. Well, the news is good, Perplex City is happening NOW and there's a London event this Saturday (paired with the New York event that happened last week), from 12pm to 6pm at City Temple in Holborn. While registration is already closed, you can still go along and see what's happening as an observer. More information on this event ishere.This ain't just fun and games, though. There's a chance to win £100,000 if you can find the mysterious cube, lost somewhere in the world. As with most ARGs, and treasure hunts to boot, the bedrock of the action is in solving puzzles, present on playing cards, websites, emails, texts and the aforementioned live events.From BB:the gist of Perplex City is that you buy packs of six cards for $5 a pack and enter a world of puzzle solving, interactive fiction, and real-world/fantasy crossover. (The makers of the game are happy to admit the inspiration came from Kit Williams' 1979 treasure hunt book, Masquerade, which provided clues to help readers locate a valuable "golden hare" hidden in the real world...)Unlike treasure-hunt type things of old, modern technology adds a very cool twist. BB reports that some of the cards have UV inks or are heat-sensitive. You'll also need to follow clues to places as obscure as classified ads in China.If anyone's interested in getting a group together for this game, gamesblog is up for it. More hands make lighter work etc. etc. Here's a quick-start guide fromMostly Charmless.More on ARGs can be found on gamesbloghere, in an interview with UK ARG companyBlast Theory.
Since the end of December, by central government edict, every English council has had to "provide every councillor with the option to have an easy-to-manage set of public web pages". Most authorities claim to have met the target in theory. In spirit, however, it has been missed by a mile.Paul Evans, head of the Councillor.info scheme to provide elected members with a web presence, says only a tiny percentage of councillors use their sites to do anything more than list contact details. In an era when blogging is commonplace in public life, this disengagement by local democracy is an anomaly.One reason is a rule banning local authority sites from carrying material that could be deemed political. Councillors wanting to do anything adventurous with the web have to set up personal sites, which are often at least four clicks from the council's home page.DeterrentLewisham councillor Andrew Brown, who this week celebrates two years of blogging from his sitewww.20six.co.uk/cllr_andrew_brownsays the ban is a deterrent. The 36-year-old charity worker created his blog on his own initiative, entirely separately from his "official" council site. "The policy means I have two sites to keep up to date. It would be nice if I just had the one, and it was the one I wanted it to be."Brown's blog gets about 80 unique visitors a day. Significantly, more find it via Google than through the council's website, he says. The visitors are "a bit different to the usual people who contact me. Some are officers, some are political opponents hoping I'll slip up, but I keep coming across local people." Overall his blogging experience has been "almost entirely positive".Legal guidelines on blogs published by the local e-democracy project, sponsored by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, say that a council could technically get into trouble even by linking to a personal site containing political content. "The government's code of recommended practice on local authority publicity states that council resources should not be used to publicise individual councillors." However, the guidelines say that as creating a link involves only a minimal use of resources, so long as a council offers links even-handedly to the blogging pages of every individual council member who wants them, then this is unlikely to infringe the rules, "although there is no clear guidance or case law on this point".Brown says he has shown the guidelines to his council's lawyers , but they are taking a fairly cautious line. "They're waiting for what the government has to say rather than what the national project has to say," he says.London borough of Kingston councillor Mary Reid, who chairs the e-democracy project - and runs her own blog atwww.maryreid.org.uk- says that councils should not worry about links, provided there's a disclaimer. "They're already linking to MPs, why not to their councillors?," she asks. Kingston already has six blogging councillors, from all three parties.Evans says that most councillors need a great deal of hand-holding before they get to this stage. Councillor.info, a service offered by the internet cooperative Poptel, has done deals with 21 English authorities to give them facilities to create a basic web presence."The only way to get councillors to run good sites is to remove all the obstacles and give them as much advice, help and encouragement as they need," says Evans. Councillor.info has launched a new mentoring service to help councillors get on the web.A new study on the benefits of e-democracy carried out for the national project finds that if just one councillor at each local authority blogged, between 350,000 and 2.5m citizens would read a councillor blog each month.Business caseThe report, produced by the Improvement and Development Agency, claims there is a clear business case for e-democracy, which it defines as any application of e-technology that enables or enhances the interaction between government and its stakeholders with the goal of raising engagement and participation in democratic processes.E-democracy's paybacks include helping councils meet the demands of central government's comprehensive performance assessment in areas such as safer and stronger communities, sustainable communities and transport, healthier communities, and children and young people.There are also cash savings. The report says Bristol conducted 12 consultations in 10 months using e-panels at a cost of &pound;40,000. "To do this by conventional means would have cost a total of &pound;96,000," says the report.Elections pose a new challenge for councillor bloggers. The legal guidelines warn that resources spent on the web may count towards total limits on election expenditure: "Even if the limits on such expenditure are not exceeded by a councillor there may be a separate obligation on local authorities that should exercise caution in providing links to party political blogging pages during a pre-election period. Such links might be treated as donations that are not permitted under the legislation or may unlawfully confer a benefit on candidates who are sitting councillors, over other councillors."A new study, Political Blogs - Craze or Convention? published by the Hansard Society charity, says that blogs are a potent new force, but advises politicians not to get carried away. "Politicians, who are used to shouting through megaphones and broadcasting through microphones, will not find it easy to adjust to a communicative ecology where the stage belongs to everybody," it warns."The problem facing politicians who blog is that they are professionally implicated in the very culture that blogging seeks to transcend," says the report. "Blogging politicians are always going to be seen as a little bit like those old Communist apparatchiks who had to sit in the front row at rock concerts and pretend to swing to the beat."LinksFind your local councillor:www.councillor.gov.ukE-democracy project:www.e-democracy.gov.uk
Does this blog annoy you? Now thanks to NetDisaster you can wreak your revenge,here.Comment: Almost makes me want to take back some of the rude things I've said about Flash. Almost.[Thanks toScoblefor the link.]
I'm in Munich today - it's freezing - checking outGuild Wars Factions, the latest addition to the online fantasy game. Yes, I appreciate those last three words my cause some of you to frantically click elsewhere, but stay with me here - Factions does look rather impressive.Guild Wars came out in 2005 and offered a couple of features that were almost unheard of in online multiplayer titles - no fees and streamed content. The latter basically meant that players could team up and play through their own version of the world. This meant that story lines could be deeper - as the designers knew how many players were playing and what they had previously done - and more realistic, as players could permanently change the environment. Sadly the innovation stopped there, with the clichéd fantasy characters - busty women, impractical armour, you get the picture - very tiresome. Most importantly though, there was always the feeling that something was missing with GW. I always saw it as a Fisher Price MMO, with none of the sense of scale associated with games like WoW.Factions may change all this. Yes, the streaming model remains, but there appears to be far more depth to the combat now, with some of the battles taking on quasi-RTS proportions.But back to the demo. I won't bore with you the back-story but the general gist is two factions, split into guilds and lots of clouting each other. Yes, PvP (player vs player) is pivotal to the action, but there seems to be much more for peace-loving folk to get involved in now and crucially, the two play styles are more interlinked than before. Victory in the battles and quests results in a daily shift of the frontline which allows towns and villages to change hands. Win a big city and your guild alliance will be entitled to new quests, better prices on gear and even a victory parade. Whether this is enough to encourage a feeling of real advancement remains to be seen but it certainly appears to offer more than the pyrrhic victories often apparent in other online games.How Factions will pull together before its spring release remains to be seen. A play session after the presentation proved that the game is certainly beautiful - although it lacks warmth, with some of the environments feeling more like film sets - but it was hard to fully gauge the impact when bumbling around the maps with inexperienced journalists. Certainly the new characters - I played with an assassin - will please the veterans, but whether they will tempt in newcomers remains to be seen.Jeff Strain of the developersArenaNet, who gave the presentation, was confident. "We've raised the bar about what you need to pay for in a game," he said. "We have live content and support without the subscription fee". But when you throw in the fact that they are planning bi annual updates (Factions is the first), which, while not essential to own, are likely to become de facto purchases, you end up spending more than you may think. Yes, it will be less than a monthly sub, but it is hardly free.Guild Wars Factions then? It looks promising and the tactical elements are appealing - if these really gel this could be something special - but if you want that true epic virtual world feel I still think you have to look elsewhere.
It's Tuesday, It's time to chat.
A new front opened in the six-year war between Microsoft and the European commission last week. The endgame is uncertain, as regards both timing and outcome, but the enormous scale of the stakes are clearer: Brussels is challenging the entire basis of the group's business strategy and model. It is determined to change them.With the US department of justice (almost) out of the picture following its 2002 settlement and most of Microsoft's once-litigious rivals either out of business or bought off, the commission sees itself as a lonely David fighting Goliath, aiming its sling at the group's quasi-monopoly. It wants to force it to face genuinely free competition.Last Wednesday, Microsoft raised the ante yet again. The world's biggest software maker not only defied Brussels on the central issue of making servers running its Windows operating system interoperable with rival versions but challenged the authority and integrity of an independent trustee - charged with monitoring its compliance with an anti-trust ruling - it is, albeit reluctantly, co-sponsoring.Almost two years ago, the then EU competition commissioner, Mario Monti, levied a record fine of &euro;497m (&#163;340m) on Microsoft for abusing its dominant position in the PC operating systems market: it had been leveraging its near monopoly on to markets for work group servers and media players.Mr Monti demanded "remedies" - forcing Microsoft to disclose "complete and accurate" interface documents to enable rival servers to achieve full interoperability and to make available a version of Windows without a media player.Twenty-three months later and, after court hearings, voluminous correspondence, private meetings between Neelie Kroes, Monti's successor, and Steve Ballmer, Microsoft chief executive, colossal lawyers' bills and millions of man-hours, the paramount issue of interoperability is unresolved. And, therefore, the threat of daily fines of &euro;2m - backdated to mid-December - draws closer.Microsoft argues that Brussels has wilfully ignored copious evidence of its compliance and, moreover, denied it due process - raising the prospect of yet another legal battle. In a 75-page assertion of its complete compliance with Mr Monti's March 2004 decision, it insisted it had gone beyond the commission's mandatory remedy and opened up (part) of the ultra-secret source code behind Windows to rivals willing to pay a - yet to be agreed - licence or royalty fee.It attached a 49-page report from five computer science professors - British and German - wholly at odds with the findings of Professor Neil Barrett, the monitoring trustee, that the technical information Microsoft had supplied was "fundamentally flawed" and "totally unfit". But the report refused to name the academics and it transpires that at least one of them was nominated by the group to be the trustee - and rejected as he had worked for Microsoft in the past.For Georg Greve, president of the Free Software Foundation Europe and one of the strongest of the commission's few backers, this latter response was "outrageous" in its implication that Prof Barrett was "biased". But for Mr Greve the stakes are even higher: as a spokesman for the "open source" software community, he sees the struggle between Brussels and Microsoft as a war for the soul of society and democracy itself."This is a conflict of approaches and models. Free software is not a single company or product, it's a fundamentally different approach to working with software and the computer industry as a whole: in upholding the freedom of competition we're asserting the values of a democratic society," he said.Mr Greve, who accuses Microsoft of constantly trying to "wriggle out of its obligations", added: "They should comply and stop ignoring the commission and pretending they are above the law, because they are not. What's in it for them is money, control, power - the ability to leverage their monopoly on the desktop into new markets such as mobiles and set-top boxes."The "open source" community is built around the Linux operating system, which, Mr Greve says, is increasingly popular with companies such as Sun, Hewlett-Packard, Intel and IBM as well as with governments. South Korea has recently announced plans to set up a university dedicated to developing Linux programmes.But Mr Greve says: "Destroying Microsoft is not our objective at all. I believe they will learn eventually if they are forced to learn. As long as they put themselves above justice, politics and regulation, they have to be pinned to the ground ... When companies have desktops running on Windows, they have no choice but to use Microsoft servers. But if they choose to buy a new Linux server, they can help clients ... choose different desktop systems."
"Audible plans to announce on Tuesday that it will start selling episodes of Gervais' show beginning with a new "season two" collection of episodes, which will begin next week. Audible will charge $1.95 per episode or $6.95 for the season, which will include at least four episodes by the creator and star of television's "The Office." Audible's exclusive deal also runs for a "season three," which will start in the fall," reportsCNet.The move is the first major example of a free podcast attempting to go paid, said David Joseph, Audible's vice president of corporate communications and strategy. "We're helping Ricky to build a business so he can pay his people."
No way: Jose. Photograph: Matthew Lewis/GettyChelsea's swaggering manager Jose Mourinho - better known as "the special one" - came out with a fantastic little statement at the weekend. The came in response to accusations that the pitch at Stamford Bridge was a bit ropey. None of it, said the Portuguese Love God:"Sometimes you see beautiful people with no brains," he said. "But you see ugly people who are intelligent scientists. Our pitch is a little bit like that."Mour's Law, then, seems to be the old assumption that intelligence is inversely proportional to attractiveness. That's a hoary old cliche, of course, inno way underscored by modern reality TV shows. But is his "sometimes" an oblique challenge to that orthodoxy?Actually, who cares?This is just an excuse for a bit of reader participation: your chance to reveal to us some of the world's most beautiful geeks.
Hideo Kojima's interactive record is the subject of countless game designer fantasies. The Japanese legend can arguably do no wrong when it comes to creating superbly-crafted titles like Metal Gear Solid. To date, trying to understand the intricacies of his experience has been limited to rare translator-mediated interviews or taking a diploma in Japanese language.Kojima launched a developer's blog last year, and bar relying upon poor translations from web-based babel-fish, we English-speakers have been left out of the game director's gems.Now, according toGame|Life, thanks to the tireless efforts of Kojima Productions' Ryan Payton, we English-speakers can be party to an almost-daily audience with the acclaimed designer. Payton's translating both theblogand the accompanyingpodcasts.Let this bring a new dawn of cross-cultural game design understanding.
The title more-or-less says it all. Over the last couple of days, Capcom has announced Power Stone Collection, a PSP port of the cult Dreamcast beat-'em-up series, while Namco let slip details of Tekken: Dark Resurrection, a portable take on the Tekken 5 coin-op featuring 30 characters, 19 environments, a wireless two-player combat mode and a bunch of mini-games designed to exploit the pick-up-and-play-for-five-minutes nature of handheld systems.But lets get back to Power Stone, Capcom's mad 3D melee game where up to four characters leap around a series of pirate-themed stages smashing each others heads in with tables, chairs and anything else that comes to hand. Apparently, the PSP rendition features both Power Stone and its sequel, adding a few unlockable extras, slightly more serviceable camera angles and four-player Wi-Fi action. Hopefully, the raw fighting engine will remain untouched - I loved the fact there were no blocking moves, just attack, attack, attack, the only breaks coming when enormous special weapons appeared on screen, prompting all the fighters to run over and try to grab them. Absolute chaos most of the time, but fantastic fun.It's interesting though, that neither game boasts entirely new material. PSP, it seems, is not a safe enough bet - as yet - to warrant the added cost of genuinely new iterations. Power Stone 3 would have been an absolute revelation...Both titles are due in the summer.
Our Newsblog has a piece onAlastair Campbell, "a self-confessed technophobe," who has just written about his conversion for AOL's Web site. ("Allelujah, I can do email, though I still struggle with attachments.") We've reprinted his two-part articlehere.
"Longtime viewers of HBO's The Sopranos know there are many places in New Jersey to dump a body. And in one of the first marketing efforts to use Google's map technology, HBO would like to show you exactly where those are," saysThe New York Times."To promote their upcoming season of The Sopranos, HBO, a division of Time Warner, and Deep Focus, an online marketing agency, have created an interactive map of New Jersey, using satellite maps from Google, and have highlighted important points of the most recent season's storyline. The map has about 15 icons in specific areas where scenes took place. When the user clicks on an icon, the scene plays in a pop-up window, which also supplies a description and a list of characters."Comment: Don't look now. The maps go live on February 27.
