Fans of the inventive Professor Layton and the Curious Village will be pleased to know that not much had been changed with the sequel. It's still the same mix of cartoon exploration and puzzle-solving, filled with amusing racial and social stereotypes (our Mockney hero and sidekick are back in full Dick van Dyke mode), even more mini games and a nice memo-taking system to help you with the trickier puzzles without resorting to pen and paper.The key difference this time is the setting, with three main areas to be explored, each as big as the original Village and linked by the Molentary Express, a train that becomes your second home throughout the adventure. As before, it's a question of exploring each location, examining every object and talking to NPCs who may also have puzzles or clues for you, before clicking on the boot icon to move to the next setting.Puzzle-wise, there are around 150 and roughly in the same categories as before; from tile-sliding to hand-eye coordination, memory and maths games – all beautifully suited to the DS's dual screen and stylus. Some puzzles can be tackled whenever you like, but this game takes more effort to link puzzle type to where you are in the story, meaning a lot more careful examination of every object you come across and more key puzzles that need to be solved in order to progress the game's main storyline, namely finding who killed Layton's mentor and whether Pandora's Box had anything to do with it.Oh, and you can also download a new puzzle over Wi-Fi for 33 weeks after launch. There's also 3 new mini games to contend with. The first involves a Tamagotchi-style hamster who has to be kept fit and in top puzzle-solving form, the second uses your camera to reassemble pictures of key locations and finally there's tea-set that can be used on unhelpful NPCs, once you've uncovered the right blend to tempt them with. The mini-games can be found in Layton's trunk, along with other game functions like the puzzle index, journal and saved games.So – in the tradition of all good sequels, this one has a bit more of everything you liked about the original. A bigger, deeper story, more puzzles, more NPCs to interact with and a spruced-up interface that works better than ever. If Brain Training leaves you cold, Professor Layton is a different means to the same end – cute, entertaining yet still challenging and perfectly suited to the DS. It's also proof the adventure genre still has mileage in the hands of a wily developer.
It may be cheap for an Xbox 360 game but Infernal: Hell's Vengeance is far from cheerful. In fact it's one of the worst games ever to appear on the 360. Heck, any recent console. Where to start then? Forget the plot – some hokum about a war between heaven and hell – let's start with the controls.This is a third-person shooter – think Gears of War – so you would hope that basics like aim and cover would be well implemented? Wrong. Aiming is stupidly sensitive, sucking the fun from even basic gaming pleasures like accurate blasting. The cover controls are more infuriating. It's far too easy to get stuck in cover and tricky to get out when needed. Neither of which are helpful when you have the demonic hordes bearing down on you. Other inconsistencies include enemy corpses – a vital ammo supply – that disappear far too quickly and some stupidly illogical puzzles.The game looks dated too. Sparse backdrops and bland character animations are everywhere. If you do persevere, then make sure you manually save as checkpoints – included in 99.9% of console gamers – appear to be absent. Battling your way through a level only to die and restart from the beginning was tiresome when gaming in the 80s, although at least you expected it then. For the same thing to happen in a 2009 release is shocking. Luckily you'll probably give up long before this becomes an issue, such is the tedious nature of the action.Positives? Well, some of the abilities you pick up during play are vaguely interesting, particularly teleportation. But obvious signposting about when to use specific skills means that even this small trickle of fun dries up.It would be great to think that Infernal is a pastiche on brainless videogames. But sadly even the most brainless shooters – Wolfenstein being a recent example – have more depth, excitement and soul than this. Infernal: Hell's Vengeance deserves to rot.
Tuesday's back to work edition of Chatterbox
Yesterday's Bank Holiday in the UK meant you have missed the news – I did anyway – that Sony arereleasing revamped versionsof God of War I&amp;II for the PS3. The classic PS2 games will have a graphical spruce up (the originals looked great anyway) and now run in 720p and 60 frames per second. Trophies will also be added too. Yes, you probably played these games first time round but I'm interested anyway – are you? The only downer - no news yet on a European release yet. Assuming that is announced soon let's hope God of War is followed by some other classic PS2 remakes – notably Ico and the original Jak and Daxter.  With no backwards compatibility on the new PS3 Slim these sort of remakes become more important than ever.Back to the Bank Holiday then and the biggest release this weekend was Batman. My copy is still stuck in Arkham Asylum – long story – so my Bank Holiday gaming was spent with Tales of Monkey Island Part 2 (all good) and another few overs of the increasingly frustrating Ashes game (far too many run outs). Anyway, how was your Bank Holiday gaming?
Of course your first starting place if you want an overview of Apple's Snow Leopard (aka Mac OS X 10.6.0) would beour own review. But there's so much else out there on the web too. Here's a quick roundup; add your own useful links.Help!Apple hassome support pages. Probably the first place to start would be withinstallation(PDF link). This has changed somewhat between previous versions and the latest: particularly because there now isn't an "archive and install" option as there used to be. (Except there sort-of is.)Apple also has apage of "known incompatibilities"TidBits alsoexplains about installation, and how it's changed.Macworld has awiki of known and emerging problems. If you're in France and using Orange and trying to send Mail, it's got a particularly helpful tip.Wired also has ahow-to wiki on upgrading to Snow Leopard.The Register ismirroringalist of incompatible softwarebeing compiled by at a wikidot page.Interesting: Jason Snell at Macworld points out that Snow Leopardcalculates space used according to "1,000 bytes = 1kb" rather than the old "1,024 bytes = 1kb". This suggests (surely?) that Snow Leopard will tell you that your hard drive is more full than by the previous measurement system. Then again, it'll tell you that you have a bigger hard drive. Swings and roundabouts.ReviewsThe Register's review, which I think was the UK's first; and itsstory about the takedown notice from Applewhich it ignored. It's long, and based on a developer build that was almost surely the same as the Gold Master (GM).Macworld gives youmore than you may be able to comprehend. Of note: Rob Griffiths onwhat annoyances have and haven't been fixedbetween Leopard and Snow Leopard.TheDaily Telegraph review:Opening and closing applications, flicking between windows, and even booting up and shutting down feels slicker. Snow Leopard's support for 64-bit computing is key to this, as is its use of OpenCL, which utilises the power of the Mac's graphics processors to run other programs and applications, giving the entire system more grunt.I'm not convinced that 64-bit or OpenCL have anything to do with those perceptions, but am willing to be corrected.We're awaiting John Siracusa's usual in-depth review at Ars Technica where he points out that it should have been a 0, not a 1, at 0x005335333553544222.Er, have we missed some other UK papers' reviews? Perhaps not.BusinessWeek's Stephen Wildstromsays that it's a "steak more than sizzle" upgradethat's a no-brainer for [Microsoft] Exchange users.What else have you noticed around the web?
This was the inaugural year of Gamescom, Europe's answer to America's Electronic Entertainment Expo. Sony used the show to announce the PS3 Slim, a smaller, prettier and 36% lighter version of its console that will be available next month. Microsoft talked about Fable III for the first time, which promises more regal moral dilemmas, while Fable II will receive a new five-part series of downloadable content. Other highlights included Id's new post-apocalyptic shoot and race-'em-up Rage, which is already looking starkly beautiful, and Heavy Rain, from the makers of the ingenious Fahrenheit; it'll give you control of the destinies of four characters in a noir-ish detective story that will apparently question the very way we control videogames. Those bored by the annual summer games drought can take some solace from the fact that there's a deluge on its way.
The London Underground'sno place for a tired gingerbread man.The greatestTV commercial of all time is for cheese curry.Cool peoplehate fitness magazines and the thumbs aloft gesture."Neuken inde keuken" is not Dutch for hello.Some partiesare less popular than others.Gary Busey'sdiet consists almost entirely of bark and dolphin meat.What YouTubecomments really mean.Mick Jaggerhas passed so bad gas.We've gotour eyes on a lovely pair of Winkers.
Previously called Bust-A-Move in the UK, the Puzzle Bobble series stretches back over the last decade-and-a-half and has always involved firing bubbles from the bottom of the screen to try and make groups of three or more of the same colour.The bubbles are launched by a small cartoon dinosaur, there's a timer and you earn bonus points for triggering larger avalanches, but the skill comes in deciding where to place your ball and then in aiming accurately enough to get it in the right place. It's in this last department that Puzzle Bobble Galaxy comes up woefully short. As has been the case with past handheld versions, by compressing the play area into just one screen of the DS, aiming feels chronically blunt and imprecise, which undermines the very point of the game. The fact that it's set in space - hence the Galaxy suffix - is utterly irrelevant.• Square Enix, &pound;19.99
From the developer that brought you the Hitman series - in which shaven-headed, barcode-necked Agent 47 killed high-profile targets using a succession of murderously inventive techniques - comes Mini Ninjas, a game where enemies don't die, but turn into friendly woodland animals when you strike them down.With simply-drawn characters, pleasant rather than taxing fights and brightly coloured backdrops, this is every ounce the children's title, albeit one with with a significant quest attached. Each level features hidden spells and objects that you're free to ignore if you prefer an easy life, or hunt for endlessly if you're among those who are mildly obsessive. While not as millimetre-perfect as similar Nintendo offerings - for example, despite having a team of ninjas, you'll constantly find yourself playing as nimble Hiro - this is a richly-drawn and enticing game with charming characters, polished action and a somewhat epic feel despite its cuteness.• Eidos, &pound;29.99-&pound;49.99
In the past I've written about theinternet's energy footprint, and raised the question of whether we should consider ways to drastically reduce the power consumed by data centres as our lives go increasingly online.So it was with more than a little interest that I readthis story about the Met Office's weather-predicting supercomputer- and how, ironically, it has a pretty big carbon footprint.According to a study by the Department of Communities looking into the footprints of public buildings around the UK, the £33m IBM cluster produces up to 75% of the carbon emissions from the Met Office's HQ in Exeter. That means it's responsible for a good deal of their annual output of 12,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide - one of the highest totals in the country.It's an easy headline, of course - and probably feels particularly sweet for those who revel in poking at climate change scientists (and they are certainly a vocal group). But the delight in this irony is also driven, in part, by the misplaced assumption that a climate scientist would think that all carbon emissions are bad.Are all CO2 emissions equal? Well I'm certainly happier to see carbon being spent solving the world's biggest problems than ferrying people around the globe for business meetings they could do through teleconferencing.And, of course, it's all relative in any case. Supercomputers in the past used vast amounts of energy to run, and were extremely primitive by comparison to today's beasts -on a visit to the Museum of Computer History earlier this year, I saw an old IBM machine that used the same amount of power as a small town but had just a few KB of memory. The Met Office machine hopes to be able to run at a Petaflop soon - that's 1 thousand trillion  (1,000,000,000,000,000) calculations every second.The truth is that while the public rarely thinks about supercomputers - except, perhaps, when there's a chess game at stake - these machines do amazing work that is impossible to replicate elsewhere. These are the machines that fold proteins, that crunch data from particle accelerators; they are the sort of machines that could help cure cancer - or, in the case of the Met's cluster, save thousands of lives by accurately modelling a climate-related disaster. It's worth thinking about.
Internet criminals have long used so-called Trojan software to infect their victim's computers and launch sneak attacks from the inside out. But could they now be putting a new spin on the concept by actually planting the hardware too?That's one theory emerging after Joe Manchin, the governor of West Virginia,suddenly had five new laptops delivered to his office. The computers arrived earlier this month, but diligent bureaucrats checked the records and discovered that they had not been ordered by the administration.While eternal optimists might hope that some friendly citizen decided their governor would like some new computers, officials suspect that it is unlikely to be an act of altruism. Computerworld quotes West Virginia's chief technology Kyle Schafer, who says that"our expectation is that this is not a gesture of good will".Although no malicious code has yet been found on the computers, the FBI is now looking into where these mystery machines came from - and the evidence is  beginning to point towards something sinister, given that similar incidents have also taken place in Vermont and Wyoming.It's quite easy to understand the appeal of this approach for a cybercriminal. After all, government workers have access to amazing amounts of data, and theyare not always careful about safeguarding it. And if you want to get through the security barriers, what's better than an inside job?Planting hardware is something that almost worked for theattempted £220m raid on the London offices of Japanese bank Sumitomo back in 2004, where keyloggers were snuck into the bank's computers. But that strike was foiled by police - and so far it doesn't appear that the provider of the mystery laptops has succeeded in accessing any valuable information either.The investigation continues.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
I'm probably looking forward to three games above all before the end of the year -Borderlands, Modern Warfare 2, andUncharted 2. Borderlands because frankly an open world shooter RPG with Diablo-esque loot gathering and drop-in-drop-out co-op sounds perfect. Modern Warfare 2 is the obvious one, although I'm probably in the minority as I'm looking forward to the single-player more than multiplayer. The original Modern Warfare demanded almost MMO-length time commitments to be competitive in multiplayer and not all of us have that. I'll give it a good go in the first week or so though. And then there is Uncharted 2. What I've seen so far of the PS3 exclusive suggests this could be one of the most beautiful looking games ever created. Looks aren't everything of course, but when a game looks aspretty as thisthey really do matter. The original is still my favourite PS3 game so I've got huge hopes for the sequel. Developer Naughty Dog has recently been talking up the game and couldn't resista few swipes at the 360. Co-president Christophe Balestra said.I guarantee that this game couldn't be working on Xbox 360. It would be impossible. I'm 100 percent sure of this.He continues.First of all, we fill the Blu-ray 100 percent, we have no room left on this one. We have 25GB of data; we're using every single bit of it. It's the combination of Blu-ray and hard drive. You can play the entire game without loading. We don't require an install. We're doing all the post-processing effects on the SPUs [Synergistic Processing Units]. The quality of the depth of field we have, you can't do that on the Xbox.Balestra admits Naughty Dog's job is to, "make the PS3 shine" and even a cursory glance at Uncharted 2 suggests they are doing that. But would Uncharted 2 be impossible on the 360 as he suggests? Or is this just a spot of pre-release hype?
&bull; Things have been pretty tough in the PC business recently, but things could be on the turn according to Dell. Despite posting a 22% decline in revenues from the same time last year, theFinancial Timesquotes executives from the Texan companysaying thatthe slump was "stablising" and that there are now "some pockets of strong demand".&bull; Despite concern that Spotify's iPhone app might not get approval, since it potentially competes with Apple's own music business, Cupertino saysit has given it the rubber stamp, reportsPaidContent. Premium users will get the chance to stream music over the air and cache tracks when in Wi-Fi range so that they can listen to them again later.&bull; Microsoft has unveiledsome details about its "White-Fi" project, a way for electronic devices to use spare parts of the radio spectrum. It's part of a project that's been running for a few years, but supporters hope it can pick up steam:Ars Technicahas agood overview.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
This week, Beardofbees grabs the controls of the Chatterbox bandwagon and veers onto the bumpy road of chat. On the way, he encounters PS3 Slim, the NHS, Gabriel García Márquez and faked illness, plus romance hits the 'box...And remember, we still need your game-related photos. I'd like to see some of your partners, children or elderly relatives being forced to play games - I might even be able to sort out a modest game-related prize for the best examples. Send them to gamesblog + googlemail + com.Okay, you ready? Here comes bee face...Gamesblog, August 17-21, by BeardofbeesAnd so Monday rolled around once more, dragging with it the horrors of work, though fortunately Chatterbox was on hand, as ever, to ease the pains of daily employment - and to eliminate any pretense towards productivity that anyone may have foolishly harboured. Kicking off proceedings, Umboros23 claimed the first post of the week with an outburst:"FP-&gt;P-&gt;Shoryuken-&gt;FADC-&gt;ULTRA!!!!!!!!!"90 percent of the readership were confused and scared, the remaining ten percent made an instinctive Pavlovian lunge for an arcade controller that wasn't there. Street Fighter addiction; the secret shame no-one discusses.As the day got underway, fighting for control of the conversation were real sports (the new Premiership season), fictional sports (Blood Bowl), and the news that chatterbox sweethearts CunningStunt and Automatic had met up once more and spent an evening watching 'G.I. Joe' at the cinema. Oh, to be that young and foolhardy again.The usual weekend gaming round-up was just spinning into gear when ImperfectRex dropped a bit of a bombshell for a Monday morning, trying to kick-start a debate on the foibles of the NHS. A few brave souls took the bait but Carvolhosgonads soon stepped in to break things up and remind everyone that we debated this last week, and the week before. And most likely the week before that, too. Ultimately the gamesbloggers all agreed that however shoddy the service, it's a terrible inconvenience to have to go looking for your credit card when both hands have been lopped off, so a free healthcare system was grudgingly accepted as having its advantages.Instead, Steven King was raised as an alternative matter for discussion. Before long the quality of his work was being debated with gusto , along with — for some reason — that of Gabriel García Márquez, who would no doubt feel honoured to be lumped in with our favourite supernatural writer during the enthused ramblings of the gamesbloggers.Into Tuesday and the talk of the moment was an imminent price drop for Playstation 3. CraggyIsland had shifted his old model on eBay for over £200 so was wringing his hands and laughing like a maniac whilst the rest of us waited for news of the new 'slim' console — 'news' perhaps not being the ideal word here seeing as the rest of the world apparently knew about this before Sony did.Monster Hunter also saw more than a fair share of chat, hard on the heels as we were of the first major gamesblog meet-up at the Gathering Hall the week before. The veteran hunters of the blog discussed 'giadromes', 'giapreys', and the benefits of hurling explosive barrels about whilst the rest of us scratched our heads and pondered the marketing genius of offering free beer to young men and women in exchange for them buying your game. Lazybones was on hand to moderate the revelry however:  "I told my girlfriend about it, and showed her the picture, and she just kept going 'Oh God ... Oh God ...'". Remember, gamers: your hobby, like self-pleasure, may be something that most young adults do these days, but that doesn't mean that your significant other needs to know the details.Preposterous news that Emory and Andrews universities in the U.S had conducted research concluding that gamers were more likely to be "fat, depressed geeks" then broke, rudely interrupting the conversation about the joys of having cheesecake for breakfast. Of course the credibility of this study was soon put to the sword once the gamesbloggers had returned from having a little cry.[Did you mean 'cry' or 'pie'? Keef]Onto swine flu and the innocent CBPodge wondered whether it wasn't entirely possible for some unscrupulous souls to fake such an illness, it rarely being diagnosed by a visit to the doctor. "Have you only just worked this out?", asked RustyJames: "I plan on getting Swine Flu in early September." The things a gamer will do for another few hours of Monster Hunter.[Imagine the epidemic when Modern Warfare 2 comes out - gamers will have the medical community in a genuine panic - Keef]As Wednesday shuffled into place, Automatic broke the news that she was having a baby – albeit in the game Rune Factory 2. "Not sure yet if it's going to be a boy or a girl", she explained, "gotta raise 100,000 gold in the meantime though to make sure I can build a school for the little thing." At once the gamesbloggers that were still childless resolved to remain so forever, having not previously realised that they were expected to fund a sprog's education in entirety from the bricks and mortar up.Much of the day was spent discussing the benefits of the new PS3 Slim, its existence finally confirmed by Sony. It seems there are two kinds of gamesbloggers: those who plan to trade up from an existing PS3 to the new Slim, and those who think that the former category are raving lunatics. Loser opined that the only people who should truly be considering such a move are those that live in cupboards. When every square centimetre counts, you take your miniaturisation of technology very seriously. Apart from a well-considered discussion on the best graffiti ever seen by the chatterboxers (OfficePest's enigmatic discovery in Bristol of "Marmite I mis" winning the prize through sheer bafflement factor), this more or less wrapped up the day.Thursday got off to a slow start until PhilosopherK1ng came up with a question to keep us on the edge of our seats: "Which game has your favourite menu and/or on screen HUD?" he asked. However, the film The Orphan soon distracted everyone into a conversation about why exactly it is that children can be so creepy. "Perhaps it is their lack of knowledge for the consequences of their actions which allows one to believe they are capable of anything?" suggested RustyJames, but TonyHayers had the conclusive word: "Children are scum," he explained, "and should be discouraged."Thereafter some time was spent on the topic of commuting, with the merits and setbacks of this lifestyle being tossed around, as well as on the news that athlete Caster Semenya was being gender tested after taking gold in Berlin. Resident stream-of-consciousness blogger and lower-case champion mollocate was on form as usual as he asked:"...isn't a gender test something completely different from what that athlete is currently undergoing, ie, a test to identify her sex. gender is the socially ascribed identity, sex is the meat and two veg or in this case the clever use of strapping, eyebrow plucking and waxing. am i right? how much is too much testosterone?"Unfortunately nobody could compose a suitably rigorous response.As the sun came up on Friday, the Monster Hunters of the gamesblog revealed that they had again met up at the Gathering Hall for drinks and the playing of PSPs. Only time will tell how they will cope when Capcom withdraws this boozy support group at the end of the month; the notion of invading a local Starbucks to abuse their wi-fi connection was suggested in hushed tones.Fear that this was all a bit too much became palpable, so instead the gamesbloggers tried to drum up some good old-fashioned alpha male conversation and launched into a discussion of poetry, inspired as they were by HenryPootle's quoting of T. S. Eliot the evening before. For the briefest of moments, the arts flourished on the Gamesblog as the Chatterboxers proved that their cultural knowledge did, in fact, extend beyond the realms of electronic entertainment. Newbolt, Coleridge, D. H. Lawrence, and Shelley; the greatest opening lines from the world of poetry were debated until Limni derailed the whole affair with the statement that, objectively, no film ever made is more quotable than Aliens.An innocent assertion, or was it pure malice to throw this sort of debate into the chatterbox on a Friday? Either way, before long it was clear that film and television quotes would dominate for the rest of the day. After some time, mere repetition slowed and the Gamesblog turned to that age-old question: when in day-to-day society is it appropriate to recite a line from a favourite piece of entertainment? During banter with friends, when chatting up a potential date or, bizarrely, at the moment of walking out on an actual date that's not going too well—the chatterboxers have tried them all with, it must be said, decidedly mixed results.The only thing left for a Friday afternoon was a good excuse to nick off early to the pub, and luckily cricketer Stuart Broad provided this with a performance that left the gamesblog in hearty fettle for the weekend's revelery.   "I'll have whatever Broad had for lunch please," said UnbelievableJeff as the doors were closed on another week on the Gamesblog.Quote of the Week:"I had a bit of a spontaneous moment t'other day and booked a trip to Copenhagen with some girlfriends to go to Noma which has the great honour of being the third best restaurant in the world. Very excited about being served things on stones decorated with flowers."Newcomer StainlessStyle at long last reveals what women really want, and who would have guessed it could so simply be achieved with a ten minute scrounge in the local park?
Facebook has been forced to give its users more control over how much of their personal information is shared with the social networking site and the makers of the games and quizzes they download onto their profile pages, in the latest move to increase online consumer protection.The move, which comes in response to complaints from Canadian privacy officials, is part of a growing trend to clamp down on the use of personal data by social networking sites and the software developers who use them to distribute their applications. It could have repercussions for other sites such as MySpace and even Twitter.As consumers are given more and more power over the use of their information, it reduces the potential ability of companies such as Facebook to make money supplying that information to advertisers. In the past, the company has come under fire for its own use of users' information to target advertising.After a year-long review from the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada, Facebook has agreed to give users more information about how it uses their data for advertising, and to change the default settings of its privacy controls – which many users leave unaltered – to better reflect users' preferences.It is also tightening up on the information available to third parties about its users. Facebook, founded by Harvard dropout Mark Zuckerberg, pioneered the use of downloadable applications, opening up its site so anyone could produce a program. They started as silly games, such as throwing sheep or pies at other friends, but have evolved considerably, and as part of the downloading process users have to allow them access to all their information such as date of birth, marital status and what groups they belong to on the site.Now Facebook has accepted this needs tightening up. The changes, which Facebook will introduce over the next year, will affect all 250 million Facebook users worldwide, including those in the UK.Application developers will have to specify which categories of data the software needs, so users can decide accordingly. Specifically, the application will have to tell users why it wants very sensitive information, such as date of birth. Users will also have to specifically approve any access Facebook applications have to their friends' information. Such access still would be subject to the friend's privacy and application settings."Application developers have had virtually unrestricted access to Facebook users' personal information," privacy commissioner Jennifer Stoddart told reporters today. "The changes Facebook plans to introduce will allow users to control the types of personal information that applications can access."Elliot Schrage, vice-president of global communications and public policy at Facebook, said: "Our productive and constructive dialogue with the commissioner's office has given us an opportunity to improve our policies and practices in a way that will provide even greater transparency and control for Facebook users."We believe that these changes are not only great for our users and address all of the commissioners' outstanding concerns, but they also set a new standard for the industry."Facebook will update its privacy policy so it provides users with more information about how to delete their accounts and how its advertising programs work.
Amid the Triple A sequels and movie cash-ins there were a few original titles at the Gamescom extravaganza. Following Tuesday'sopener, here's the second selection of new IP shown off at the event - some of it brand new, some seen before, but all of it considered important enough in these difficult times to take up floor space...Bayonetta (Sega, PS3, Xbox 360)Yes, yes, we all know about Sega's delirious third-person hack-'n'-slasher, following the eponymous witch warrior with magical attacking hair. However, a new pretty boy character named Luka was unveiled at GC, plus we saw Bayonetta with, not only pistols attached to her legs, but also rocket launchers. Rocket launchers!Official site.The Saboteur (EA, PC, PS3, Xbox)Okay, it's hardly an unsung hero, as hype is already building around this open-world WWII espionage thriller from Pandemic. You're Sean Devlin, a tough Irish race car driver waging a one man war against the Nazis in occupied France. Through daring acts of sabotage, Devlin is able to inspire the people to fight back for themselves through a typically elaborate EA game mechanic called 'the will to fight'.Official website.Gamescom trailer.Twitter feed.Singularity (Activision, PC, PS3, Xbox)An interesting, seemingly Lost-inspired sci-fi adventure, from FPS specialistRaven Soft. You play US pilot Nate Ranco who ends up on an island where a Russian experiment has created an almighty rip in the space/time continuum. You need to fend of infect Ruskies anduse a time manipulation device as a weapon. Somehow.Official website.Scribblenauts (Warner, DS)It was one of the cult stars of E3, but this innovative treasure deserves another mention. Your aim is to to solve a series of 220 puzzle screens, by picturing an object that may prove helpful and then writing it onto the screen - the object then appears in the game world. There's a database of tens of thousands of objects apparently, and there are multiple ways to solve each problem. It's out in October.Gamescom trailer.Also:Blur (PC, PS3, Xbox 360, Activision)Okay, you've probably already heard about this attempted re-invention of the racing game genre by Liverpool studio, Bizarre Creations. The creators of the Project Gotham series have gone back to the starting grid, combining an upgradeable weapons system with real-world vehicles and locations and a social network-style community interface.New Ninja Theory title (PS3, Xbox 360, Namco Bandai)More of an announcement than an actual game, but what the heck. Namco Bandai revealed during Gamescom that the creators of early PS3 graphical showcase, Heavenly Sword, are working on a brand new title for release next year. Cambridge developer Ninja Theory is promising another highly cinematic adventure, high on visual style, and hpefully higher than Heavenly Sword on gameplay variety. Certainly one to watch though.
Nokia's ongoing fight against Apple's iPhone intensified today with the release of a new touchscreen phone that it claims offers the power of a personal computer on a mobile phone.The N900, which will be out in October and is expected to be sold by several of the UK's five wireless networks in the run-up to Christmas, is the first smartphone developed by the Finnish company that uses software based on the open-source Linux platform. According to its technical specifications it should also be at least as fast and powerful as Apple's top device.Nokia, the world's largest mobile phone manufacturer, has previously used its version of Linux – called Maemo – on a range of pocket computers such as the N800, which have not been strong sellers because they lack mobile-phone connectivity. Its smartphones, meanwhile, have always been based on its Symbian platform.But the runaway success of the iPhone and the development by RIM, maker of the popular BlackBerry corporate email device, of more affordable handsets have put intense pressure on Nokia to broaden its range of devices and experiment with new platforms.Last week, Nokia announced that it would integrate Microsoft'sOffice suite of applicationsonto its mobile phones, in an attempt to take on RIM in the corporate market. Earlier this week the company launched its first laptop computer, the Nokia Booklet 3G.Its first touchscreen phone – the Nokia 5800 – has sold well but failed to attract the sort of "must have" cachet enjoyed by the iPhone. That phone has now been joined by the N97, which (like the new N900) has a slide-out keypad, and the Nokia 5530 which includes Nokia's music service Comes With Music. They will be followed later this year by another touchscreen device, the Nokia 5230.The N900, however, is a higher specification phone, as befits its €500 (£440) retail price – a sum that will be heavily subsidised by the mobile phone companies to the point that it is likely to be free to anyone signing up to an 18-month contract. Its 5 megapixel camera beats the 2 megapixel device on the 5230 and the 3.2 megapixel cameras on the original 5800 and the 5530, but is the same as the camera found on the N97. Also like the N97, 5800 and 5230, the N900 is a 3G phone. (The 5530 is not.) The N900 has 32GB of storage, which is expandable up to 48GB via a microSD card.The big difference between the N900 and the other Nokia touchscreen phones, however, is likely to come in its speed of processing and multi-tasking. The use of Linux coupled with a better processor makes the N900 – on paper – a much better phone than the N97, which has been criticised by some techies as clunky and slow.Nokia says its Maemo 5 software means users can have dozens of application windows open and running simultaneously. The N900 has an ARM Cortex-A8 chip, which should be at least a third faster than the processor in the N97 and is the chip used in the iPhone.It also has 256MB of RAM – double the capacity of the N97 and the same as the iPhone – with Nokia saying the total memory available to applications is actually 1GB as it has virtual memory capabilities.The N900, however, is bulkier than the iPhone, coming in at 18mm thick compared with the iPhone 3Gs's 12.3mm, and weighing 181g compared with the iPhone's 135g. It is about the same length and width."With Linux software, Mozilla-based browser technology and now also with cellular connectivity, the Nokia N900 delivers a powerful mobile experience," said Anssi Vanjoki, executive vice-president of markets at Nokia. "What we have with Maemo is something that is fusing the power of the computer, the internet and the mobile phone, and it is great to see that it is evolving in exciting ways."
With the PS3 Slim hitting stores next Tuesday and already on pre-order at £229 online, it was obvious that Microsoft would respond. But how? Maybe a Halo 4? A launch date for Natal? A free "red ring of death" T-shirt with every 360? Sadly not. But they have announced a price cut to £199 (from £230) for the top of the range Elite model while discontinuing the mid-ranking Pro edition. This makes sense. Keep the Arcade model - albeit with a "upgrade to Elite please" price rise (!) to £159 - as a cheap and cheerful competitor to the Wii while the Elite can go up against the PS3 in the spec-war.Whatever happens today, this clearly feels like the start of the console sales "war" this Christmas. Maybe the first proper one too, with the PS3 now sensibly priced against the opposition. But what will happen? With sales of the Wii slowing can the newly priced 360 and PS3 grab some more market share? Or are they simply competing against themselves for the growing, but still relatively small, traditional gaming audience? And what about you? Will a sub-£200 PS3 tempt 360 owners to sample Sony's console or vice-versa?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; The controversy over the government's plan to grab alleged file sharers by the goolies continues, with a particular focus on whether the scheme concocted by Peter Mandelson had anything to do with his cozy meeting with US entertainment mogul David Geffen. In a letter to the Guardian today, Lord Mandelson denies it had any influence, and that"the subject of internet piracy was not discussed during our meeting". We've also got an interview withAndrew Robinson, the man leading the UK version of the Pirate Party.&bull; With Apple's Snow Leopard OS due to land tomorrow - earlier than expected - developers are rushing to make sure their software is compatible, reports theApple 2.0blog. Among the programs not yet up to speed? Adobe Photoshop Elements, Google Gears, and a number of media applications from smaller providers.&bull; This week's Technology Guardian has hit the streets, which gives you a chance to sample a fine menu of items includinga look at what Sony's PS3 Slim needs to go to succeed, an interview with the man whois leading the fight against Google Booksand a look at whatsmart energy metering can do for you. All that and more for just 90p (you can see it all onlinehere.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
My parents are in their 70s, and want to upgrade their ancient (15-year-old) PC and get online. They don't want a laptop and have asked me to source a reliable PC with a flat-panel monitor for around £300. I'm struggling.Paul EnglishIt may not be easy to hit the £300 price point on a new, name brand machine running Windows. However, there are often special deals that come close. At the moment, for example, Dell is offering an Inspiron 545 desktop PC deal (search the site for D004528) with an 18.5in widescreen for £329 including VAT and shipping. It's not the prettiest machine around, but the price includes 2GB of memory, a DVD +/- RW drive, Windows Vista Home Premium and Microsoft Works 9. The screen resolution is limited to 1366 x 768 pixels, but the text should be quite big.It will be best if you remove any unwanted trial software and install some free programs such as AVG or Avast antivirus software, SuperAntiSpyware, and IE8 (if it comes with IE7) and either Firefox or Google Chrome.Supermarkets offer good deals from time, especially Aldi with its Medion PCs, but generally these are for limited periods.You can also find cheap PCs from local companies such as Mesh, which offers theR2S Matrix A7550running Ubuntu for £200 plus delivery charges, if you feel up to supporting that. You can shop around for a cheap LCD screen.Another option, if your parents have a good LCD TV, is to buy a tiny Asus Eee Box and clip that to the back, or an Acer Aspire Revo. The Eee Box is basically an Atom-powered netbook running Windows XP in 1GB of memory, while the Revo has 2GB and runs Vista. Neither offers the performance of the Dell Inspiron, nor its DVD drive. But they're fine for web surfing and email, and take up little space.Bear in mind there's only a tiny profit margin on a £300 PC, and your parents can't expect much in the way of support unless they pay for it separately, or you do it. Dell offers 3 years' support, including evenings and Saturdays, for £95.20. But it blows your budget.
I've been told that Macs are really PC's now that they have Intel chips. Does this mean that Mac OS X can be installed on a PC?Christopher KingThe original 1984 Mac had little in common with the standard PCs of the day, but Apple has now adopted most PC industry standards apart from the antiquated BIOS chip, the keyboard, and Windows' NTFS file system. This has made it far easier to run Mac OS X on a PC than it used to be, and theOSx86 projectis dedicated to making it easier. Searching for OSx86 and/or hackintosh will give you a good idea what's involved. It's not something I recommend for serious use, though it's understandable when people want hardware that's outside Apple's range of offerings. The most common recent example has been hackintoshing cheap netbooks.
Is it possible to use an external hard drive on both a Mac and PC, switching between them, to transfer files? I'm asking because I had what feels like a lucky escape: after shifting some files over and plugging the drive back into my PC, all hell broke loose.Chris HamiltonBoth PCs and Macs can read external hard drives formatted using the FAT file system so this should not be a problem. However, Macs tends to add files that are hidden from Mac users but visible to PC users, such as .DS_Store and .Trash folders, so it's not ideal.BlueHarvestcan deal with this stuff but few people bother.Also, FAT is not very robust and you might consider using something likeNTFS-3G and MacFuseso you can convert the external drive to NTFS.But it depends how conservative you are about preserving your data. I have both Macs and PCs and I am extremely cranky, so I'd never share an external hard drive, unless it was networked file sharing. I use USB memory sticks to move files because these are easily reformatted and/or binned without risking any loss of data.
The UK could lose its place as home to the world's third largest video games industry this year, falling to fifth place, before dropping into sixth in 2010, according to research by the National Endowment for Science Technology and the Arts (NESTA). It comes as industry body Tiga pushes for the government to grant the industry a "cultural" tax break, as proposed in June's Digital Britain report. The survey shows almost three-quarters of industry executives thought the production of games in the UK has declined in the last five years. Tomorrow is the deadline for responses to the tax break proposals.
London-based Mesh has just launched a Cute home theatre PC that is easy to fit into a living room or even a bedroom. The £399 price includes a Blu-ray drive, DVB-T digital TV card with remote control, and 7.1 surround sound. It doesn't include a monitor or speakers, but to get the best out of it you'll need a high-definition screen (1920 x 1080) and a set of speakers.The Cute's front is 200mm across and 166mm high, though the "cube" is comparatively deep at 303mm (7.9 x 6.7 x 12.2 in). I tried a glossy red one but it's also available in blue, black, or white.The Cute is the sort of thing hobbyists and movie enthusiasts have been building from barebones cases (the Cute looks like an A8989-Series from Chyang Fun) and mini-ITX motherboards. Mesh has done it for the rest of us,with a range of machines at prices from £299 to £599. The £399 X215 HD version has a 2.7GHz dual-core AMD Athlon processor, 2GB of memory, a 320GB hard drive, 64-bit Windows Vista Home Premium, and Cyberlink's Blu-ray Disc Suite. (It also qualifies for a free copy of Windows 7.) Given that you pay a premium for small, it's good value.On set up, I was far from being the first person to struggle to get the Logitech cordless keyboard and optical mouse working. Eventually I found a tip in the documentation – push the connect buttons in with a pen – after which everything worked, instantly. If you're using it in a living room and/or at a movie-viewing distance, having cordless peripherals is important.The Cute is reasonably nippy, with the processor scoring 5.5 on theWindows Experience Index. However, the overall score is brought down to 4.0 by the 3D graphics from the integrated ATI Radeon HD3200 chip. Drawbacks? The main one is the fan seemed to produce quite a lot of wind noise, even though the case was cold on top and not really hot underneath. It's far from being the worst PC I've heard, but home theatre systems need to be quieter than average.Having 4GB of memory instead of 2GB costs an extra £40. There are no free slots so you still have to buy 4GB if you upgrade later.The small case is limited to two drive bays: 5.25in for the Blu-ray/DVD drive, and 3.5in for the hard drive. Since 320GB is a bit small if you're collecting high-def movies, it would be better to pay Mesh the extra £30 to upgrade to 1TB.If you're looking for something small, then the Cute is certainly attractive at £399. But the system you really want is £479.50, which doesn't sound quite such a bargain.Pros: Small and cute; includes Blu-ray and TV; connectivity; priceCons: May be noisy for home theatre use; limited expansion options  meshcomputers.com
Some people have fairies at the end of their garden. We have a red telephone kiosk, one of the most beautiful examples of street architecture ever devised. Sadly, it is hardly ever used now – killed by the unstoppable march of the mobile phone. It is for this reason that thousands are being disposed of by BT. It is offering local communities the chance to take them over for £1 if they will maintain them or £300 a year plus VAT if they keep them as a working payphone. This provides a rare opportunity to either keep the kiosks as they are or turn them into a new form of public art. Or both. Designed by the architect Sir Giles Gilbert Scott in 1924, the red kiosks were first introduced two years later in London and other parts of the country. Since then, they have become a part of Britain's heritage, along with cream teas, warm beer and the Tower of London. But now they are in danger of becoming a mausoleum for the analogue age unless something creative is done.Many kiosks have already been converted to alternative uses and there is no shortage of ideas, as I found when I asked around, including putting out an appeal on Twitter. Here are a few: a shower cubicle, a coffin, an emergency shelter for unpredictable weather, a Doctor Who artefact (though it would have to be bigger on the inside … ), a mini greenhouse, a sales point for newspapers or deliveries from the internet, a kennel for tall dogs, a PhoneBoo (suggested, would you believe it, by the founder of audioboo.fm), a coffee dispenser, an ATM cash machine (but it would be a magnet for robbers), an "island of tranquillity" piping soft music for stressed out people, a local tourist information point, or as one expat American said, just leave them as they are as "the most recognisable symbol to all foreign tourists". One wag suggested that as they were too often used by drunks urinating maybe they should be turned into chemical toilets. Another manhas made a business out of restoring booths. Keep the ideas rolling.One obvious use would be to have solar energy stored during the day to illuminate the kiosks at night as a sculpture or as a beacon for passers by. However, the people at theCentre for Alternative Technologyin Machynlleth tell me their renewable energy powered telephone box was deemed uneconomic by BT. Last month, what is claimed to be the smallest art gallery in the world opened in a phone box in Settle, north Yorkshire. One tweeter, Lisa Devaney, suggested making some of them into a tribute to phones by filling them with discarded mobiles. Or the phones could be made into a sculpture of a person making a call as an ironic comment on the demise of a traditional communication. Or indeed made into any other sculpture.This month BThas started a competition for alternative useswith a first prize of £5,000 and others of £1,000. It says there are 12,500 kiosks nationwide of which more than 6,700 are "potentially suitable for adoption", which sounds much nicer than saying they are in danger of closure.A great suggestion came from Phil Slade. He urged that they should be turned into Skype stations or Fon points (or for that matter Truphone or any of the burgeoning internet telephony companies). This is a brilliant idea because it does several things at once. Technologically, it provides a magic bridge for the red kiosks to use their existing copper wires to move from the analogue into the digital age and, socially, it would provide free internet telephone calls for anyone, including the poor (as long as the person at the other end is hooked up to a web telephone). It could also be a base enabling the kiosk to expand into other digital areas – not least to become a base station to get broadband to remote parts of the country. Great idea. But it won't win a competition organised by BT, will it?victorkeegan.com
The answer depends entirely on where you live. For those in Scandinavia and some other parts of Europe, it could be sooner than you might think.A group of telecoms companies in Sweden and Norway recently announced that they plan to launch Europe's first commercial 4G services next year – offering mobile phone systems that can achieve speeds of 100 megabits per second, many times faster than the current maximums.The advanced technologies – which largely revolve around something known as Long Term Evolution (LTE) – herald the next age for mobile phones, with new networks set to eventually replace a current 3G standard that is already being stretched to capacity as millions of us use the internet on our phones or via mobile broadband connections.There are also some plans for 4G in Ireland and Spain – but the question of when it might reach Britain is still unanswered.Although Lord Carter's Digital Britain report suggested that parts of the airwaves should be handed over, the actual allocation of the spectrum has been delayed.The result is that while companies such as Motorola have already started testing faster services in Britain, nobody has yet announced plans to launch commercial 4G services.While Europe traditionally outpaces the United States in terms of mobile technology, the dilly-dallying over 4G could give the American mobile phone networks a chance to leapfrog into the lead – with US companies like Verizon already planning to roll out LTE systems next year. Whatever happens, the world's mobile phone companies will be hoping that the 4G system lasts longer than its predecessor.After all, it is only eight years since the world's first third-generation system went live (under the auspices of Japanese telecoms giant NTT DoCoMo) and just six since the first mainstream services went live in Britain, from 3.And that development came at a very high price: in 2000, when the British government auctioned off its licenses for the 3G spectrum, the world was shocked when companies including Vodafone ended up paying more than £22bn for the right to run 3G networks.With the mobile companies still trying to recoup the massive costs of those licences, it may be that our over-the-top excitement at the turn of the millennium is precisely what prevents us from getting access to the next generation of technology.
Research suggests that Windows 7 is not going to give the PC market much of a lift when it makes its retail appearance on 22 October. My contrary opinion is based on a survey of only one user, but I get the impression from Ask Jack emails that I won't be the only person shopping for a new laptop when Windows 7 appears.Buying a portable Windows machine can be a bit of a challenge, because there is so much choice. There are hundreds if not thousands of suppliers, and some of them offer two dozen different models. The trick is to know what sort of laptop you want. To simplify things a bit, there are roughly six classes of portable PC: netbooks, "value" systems, mainstream notebooks, ultraportables, desktop replacements and gaming systems.Most netbooks today have Intel Atom processors with 1GB of memory, a 10in screen and Windows XP. Some will appear running the cheaper Windows 7 Starter Edition, which you can't buy in the shops. If buying a netbook, make sure you can upgrade it to 2GB, and do that as soon as possible. You will also be able to upgrade the version of Windows 7 "in place" — at a price.Netbooks are not designed for serious computer work, such as sound and image processing, or playing games. They are intended mainly for use with web-based applications, as the name implies. They do that well, but they don't do everything."Value" or "entry level" systems have low-end specifications, and low prices. You can buy them in supermarkets and high street shops, typically for £249 to £399. They're bigger, heavier and more powerful than similarly priced netbooks, and have built-in DVD drives.Mainstream notebooks have mainstream specifications (Intel Core 2 Duo etc) and offer more power and functionality for the extra price. Most cost between £499 and £999 depending on how good the graphics are, and whether you get a Blu-ray drive instead of a DVD writer. If you're buying one for Windows 7, go for the 64-bit version with 4GB of memory and, for preference, DirectX 11 graphics.Ultraportables are "road warrior" machines, designed for light weight and long battery life, and tend to leave out the optical (CD/DVD drive). The processor of choice is an Intel CULV (Consumer Ultra Low Voltage) chip, but go for a Duo rather than a Solo. Screens are typically 12 inch standard or 13-14 inch widescreen, and prices range from about £600 to £1,200.Desktop replacements are intended to have roughly the same power as desktop PCs, but they can be very heavy and most have poor battery life. (Mostly they'll be used at home, on the mains.) The high-end models may have quad-core processors, 17in screens, Blu-ray drives and stereo speakers. The ones that stress the movie-playing (and, sometimes, games-playing) features are often called "entertainment notebooks": for example, Toshiba's Qosmio range.Gaming machines are like desktop replacement notebooks but with high-end performance and, especially, fast graphics. Leading brands include Alienware (owned by Dell) and Voodoo (owned by HP), but there are also independent suppliers. Although the specification is generally the key feature of a PC, the bigger suppliers also divide the market by price. Dell, for example, has the Inspiron range for price-conscious buyers, then the stylish Studio range models for the more aspirational mainstream, with XPS as a luxury brand. It also has a Vostro "value range" aimed mainly at businesses.The huge Windows PC ecosystem also supports many more specialised machines – handheld systems, touch-screen tablets, convertibles that work both as traditional notebooks and tablet PCs, ruggedised machines for military and similar uses, and PCs designed for certain industries such as education and health services.However, you should find it easier to choose a portable PC if you decide what kind of system you want, and ignore the ones that don't fit your chosen category.
If you've ever tried to digest a long-winded explanation of how your energy supplier works out your bill, and wondered why you can't simply pay for what you use and have done with it, government plans to get smart meters into all UK homes by 2020 will be welcome news."It's like you go to the supermarket, fill your trolley, and three months later somebody sends you an estimate of what you might have eaten," says Hermione Crease of Sentec, which designs technology for smart meters. "With no understanding of how your bill is composed, there's little motivation to change your use. It's your data – you should be able to see and understand it."Smart meters are two-way communication devices that give real-time usage data. The EU called for them in its 2006 energy services directive, but with a get-out clause. It said bills should detail actual time of use, but only "so far as it is technically possible, financially reasonable and proportionate in relation to the potential energy savings".&nbsp;Meter tweetersA smart meter alone won't save you energy. That is down to how you interpret and act on the data, spurring Microsoft to announce the launch of its energy management service, Hohm (microsoft-hohm.com), while the German utility Yello Strom, the first European company to use Google's PowerMeter (google.org/powermeter), has developed a prototype application that lets its meters tweet customers' energy consumption.Some UK energy companies, including British Gas, have run smart metering trials, and First Utility already supplies its customers with Ofgem-approved smart meters. "We're talking about going from one meter reading a year to 48 a day," says Mark Daeche, its CEO and founder.&nbsp;The Department of Energy and Climate Changerecently asked for views on the proposed rolloutand Daeche says it's vital the government standards, when they arrive, aren't overly prescriptive. "The government and the industry need to be careful not to stifle innovation," he says."There's a danger of over-specifying with too many constraints," agrees Mark England, Sentec's managing director. "Imagine if we'd standardised mobile phone technology 20 years ago. We'd have to live with it now."The UK's energy market could prove a particularly big hurdle for smart meter implementation, given that it's the most competitive in the world. "More than 100,000 customers switch supplier every week," says Jason Brogden, director at Engage Consulting and smart metering programme manager at the Energy Retail Association. "If you install a smart meter in someone's home and they change supplier, you don't want that meter to have to be replaced."Brogden says the smart meters currently available in the UK may not comply with the rules set by government. "They enable two-way communication and have some functionality for presenting customer information, but until the government sets out the functionality for smart meters we don't actually know what standards they need to comply with," he says. "We need a swift conclusion to the government consultation."Barack Obama's stimulus package reserved $4.5bn (£2.7bn) for smart grid spending, although aggressive deadlines have left US companies scrambling to develop new products. While some funding bodies require evidence of a security plan, some say such concerns have taken a back seat.In January, a cybersecurity researcher, Travis Goodspeed, said that he had bypassed smart grid encryption by inserting a hypodermic needle into a meter's circuit board and using an oscilloscope to read unencrypted electrical signals.Smart meters were also declared too easy to hack by the computer security company IOActive, which performed penetration tests on several. The company created a worm that can infiltrate a smart meter system using an automatic upgrade feature, because it lacks an authentication process. It unveiled the research at the Black Hat computer security conference in Las Vegas in July, and has also briefed the US Department of Homeland Security."We found rudimentary security design and implementation shortcomings, such as incorrect implementations of crypto systems and inadequate physical device protection, among other things," says IOActive's president and CEO, Joshua Pennell."Manufacturers must adopt a security development lifecycle [a software development process from Microsoft] if there's any hope of consistently designing security into soon-to-be ubiquitous systems at the time of design and manufacture."He adds: "Manufacturers should be asked to contractually own a portion of the security equation so consumers aren't left with a legacy of vulnerable technology that cannot or will not be patched. There needs to be a continuous independent third party review of these technologies before they are deployed."Guarding the gridThe White House'sCyberspace Policy Review(http://bit.ly/smtmtr2), released in May, cites smart grid security as a motivator for appointing a cybersecurity chief, which in turn influenced the announcement of the UK's first cybersecurity strategy and a dedicated office at Whitehall."Security will be the responsibility of the [as yet unappointed] central communications provider," says Richard Hanks, senior manager with responsibility for smart metering at Accenture."The challenge comes where you start putting controls in the grid that can be configured remotely. All networks are going to be open to being hacked. Southern California's metering network gets hacked 500 times a day. By the end of the day, they've probably mitigated 350 of these challenges."According to Sentec's Hermione Crease, the smart meter market is adopting the standards and encryption technologies commonly used in financial transactions, such as AES-256."Smart meters now routinely carry enough processing power to allow top-grade encryption and security," she says. "These things are always something of an arms race between hackers and designers."
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday 31 August 2009The article below was incorrect in saying that the EU had extended copyright to 95 years from the present 50 for performers and sound recordings. The European commission did propose 95 years, but the European parliament amended it to 70. To take effect, this still needs approval from the council of ministers, some of whom oppose an extension.Equating the freedom to share files non-commercially with freedom from excessive surveillance, freedom of speech and freedom of information, a new political party, the Pirate Party, has launched in the UK. "We are campaigning for laws that keep pace with technology," said Andrew Robinson, the party's leader.In the past, libraries were set up to share but now technology allows engagement in what Robinson calls "altruistic sharing". The party is fighting for what it calls a "public right of access to our culture".The movie and music industry see the issue differently. The estimated 7 million UK filesharers cost the music industry £200m each year, according to figures from theBPI. The government has determined the future is Digital Britain, and the report proposed new powers for the communications regulator, Ofcom, to demand data on filesharers from ISPs to cut illegal downloads by 70%.Access deniedThis week, however, the government announced plans with harsher penalties for persistent filesharers. Ofcom was to review means to curb illegal filesharing, but the government said the process would take too long, with measures not in place until 2012. "The government has now reached the view that, if action was deemed necessary, this might be too long to wait given the pressure put on the creative industries by piracy," according to a press release by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.The government is considering requiring ISPs to block certain sites, slow download speeds or even temporarily cutting off internet access for repeat offenders.The filesharing war is entering a new phase. Music and movie companies are pressing forward after legal victories against Bittorrent tracker the Pirate Bay and successful suits with six- and seven-figure penalties against individual filesharers in the US.This next phase is moving from the courtroom to the court of public opinion and public policy. The Pirate Party wants to add a voice to the copyright discussion to counter what it sees as a one-sided debate dominated by industry lobbyists.Ironically, the success of the creative industries in prosecuting the founders of the Pirate Bay raised awareness of thePiratpartiet, the Swedish political group that inspired not only the UK political party but parties and organisations in 34 countries around the world.The Piratpartiet launched its website on 1 January 2006 and had the necessary signatures for official recognition a month later. By June of that year, the party had managed to insert the issue of filesharing into the national political debate.To gain a seat in the Swedish Parliament, the party had to poll at least 4% but only managed 0.63%. Even without electoral success, the party became the third largest political party outside of parliament in its first year.The Pirate Bay trial not only boosted the Piratpartiet's profile abroad but also helped it at home, allowing it to win 7.1% of the vote and one of Sweden's 18 seats at the European parliament.It's good to talkThe UK Pirate Partygained recognition in July and has been overwhelmed by the interest since its launch. The party does not want to abolish copyright but it needs to be balanced and fair, Robinson claims."At the moment, big businesses is saying that we steal handbags, and we say let's talk about what copyright is about," he says. The original purpose of copyright, created by the Statute of Anne of 1709, was to encourage the creation of artistic works by granting a right to copy for 14 years. Copyright for written works now stands at life plus 70 years, and copyright for sound recordings is 50 years after the recording is made, or 50 years after publication. The EU has extended copyright to 95 years for performers and sound recordings.The term of copyright has been marching forward but along the way, the purpose of it has been lost, according to Robinson. Instead of encouraging artistic creation, modern copyright has made certain companies cultural gatekeepers, he argues, adding, "copyright is serving the needs of music labels, not the needs of the public, the public domain or even the artists".Celebrity influenceRobinson believes copyright reform advocates are outgunned not only by powerful lobbyists but by stars and entertainment executives with access to members of government. He cited copyright campaigner Sir Cliff Richard playing host to Tony Blair in Barbados. It has also been suggested that after having dinner with Hollywood mogul and filesharing opponent David Geffen, business secretary Lord Mandelson ordered new plans to be drawn up that could lead to persistent filesharers having their internet access cut off. However, a government spokesperson has denied Mandelson discussed online piracy in his meeting with Geffen and said there was no connection between that meeting and the government's new proposals.While a call to legalise non-commercial filesharing is getting the most attention, the party believes freedom to share is part of a larger set of freedoms, including freedom from excessive surveillance, freedom of movement and freedom of information, to increase government transparency and accountability. And in addition to opening up a debate on copyright, Robinson also wants to ask: "How much CCTV is enough? How much government snooping on what we do on the internet is too much?"The party hopes to get many candidates on the ballot in the next election, which must be held before June 2010. The Pirate Party in Sweden has a strong youth wing, and the UK party hopes to get a boost from young voters accustomed to sharing music.It's unlikely any of its candidates will enter parliament, but Robinson believes the party doesn't need to win to gain influence. They can join with other parties to become king makers. The Green party doesn't have a member of parliament but all three major political parties now agree on the importance of environmental issues, says Robinson."We hope to show that a certain amount of the population agree with our issues."The government's filesharing plansThe government has confirmed a streamlined plan for aggressive action against illegal filesharing, saying that previous plans would take too long to implement "given the pressure put on the creative industries by piracy".The new plan calls for the secretary of state to be given the power to direct the communications regulator Ofcom to implement technical measures against illegal peer-to-peer filesharing.Cutting off access was ruled out in the government's Digital Britain report released in June. In the report, the then communications minister Lord Carter said illegal filesharers should receive letters warning them their activities could leave them open to prosecution. If that failed to reduce piracy by at least 70%, Ofcom would have the power to call on internet service providers to introduce "technical measures". The most draconian penalty considered at the time was to slow down a persistent filesharer's broadband connection.Ofcom was going to evaluate possible technical measures, but the government said that would mean they wouldn't be ready until 2012 at the earliest. The music and movie industries have lobbied hard for tougher measures to be introduced sooner."We've been listening carefully to responses to the consultation this far, and it's become clear there are widespread concerns that the plans as they stand could delay action, impacting unfairly upon rights holders," said the minister for Digital Britain, Stephen Timms.Geoff Taylor, CEO of the music industry trade group BPI, said that digital piracy posed "a real threat to the UK's creative industries" that needed urgent action. "Today is a step forward that should help the legal digital market to grow for consumers," he said.While the creative industries will be pleased, internet service providers are not only being asked to police users for illegal filesharing, but will also bear part of the costs of enforcement.Digital rights groups called the move, a "kneejerk reaction". Jim Killock, the executive director of the Open Rights Group, said: "Suspension of internet access would restrict people's fundamental right to freedom of expression. It would also fly in the face of the government's policy of universal broadband access."He also accused the government of making the decision based on "private conversations" and will be lodging an official complaint "about the shoddiness of this consultation process".Meanwhile, tech-savvy Labour MP Tom Watson (pictured left) wrote on his blog that he was disappointed with the proposals, adding that they&nbsp;would "lead to accusations that the government has been captured by the big lobby operations of powerful rightsholders".
Sony updates ebook rangeTwo new Sony Reader ebook devices, the Pocket Edition and the Touch Edition, are now on pre-order in the UK.Windows 7 for families at £50Microsoft has confirmed UK users will be able to buy a Windows 7 Family Pack for use on up to three PCs for £149.99 "in limited quantities" from 22 October.Is it Wi-Fi or is it art?They really are oil paintings, but they have Wi-Fi access points built into the back. Solwise believes its Oil Painting Access Points could appeal to hotels.Touch on the new IxusCanon's new 12 megapixel Ixus 200 camera has a touchscreen that's like using a mobile phone camera – but better.Just the OneAppMicrosoft's new OneApp is a small (150K) program for accessing Facebook, Twitter, Windows Live Messenger and other services from a mobile phone.Turbo-charged OperaOpera says the new Turbo version 10 of its free browser should be available for download on 1 September.Downloads are carbon-lightStanford University research, sponsored by Intel and Microsoft, has shown that music downloads create fewer CO2 emissions than making audio CDs.Designing for tomorrowThe dConstruct 2009 conference on the future of the web will be held in the Brighton Dome on 4 September.
I don't know about you, but the last thing I want to see in games is myself. Sadly, it looks as though I am fighting an unstoppable technological tide. At last week's Gamescom, Ubisoft revealed a new fitness game named Your Shape, which it claims is the next generation of physical exercise games (a genre made obscenely popular by Wii Fit). When you start, it scans you via the Wii camera, before delivering what the press release describes as "a full-body diagnosis". And it doesn't end there: "Your Shape's unique Body Tracking Technology follows your every move in real time."I understand the physical fitness potential of this procedure, but there are concerns about what this means for the future integration of virtual and physical identities. In the past we've been able to entirely separate the two – it's the fundamental appeal behind online environments such as Second Life. Gaming has always been sort of transcendental – the player's ability to perform stunning acrobatic leaps in Prince of Persia, or devastating roundhouse kicks in Tekken, has only ever been about hand-eye coordination, about skill. One notable exception was the very first Street Fighter arcade game, now largely overlooked and dismissed by gamers, which required you to punch large pads as hard as possible to pull off moves. It was inexact and clumsy and it created a higher physical baseline for protagonists.But then fast-forward 20 years, to the unveiling of Microsoft's Project Natal motion-capture system for the Xbox 360. The demos were all about people pulling off kicks and punches in their living rooms to create similar movements on screen. Going even further, Mylo, the virtual boy emulator created by the British studio Lionhead, will watch and read the player's facial expressions, with the onscreen character reacting accordingly.It feels like a strange ontological breach. Watch a gamer in action: it's a totally unselfconscious activity. Bodies go limp, faces are twisted in weird contortions or slackened in hangdog wonder. Some read this negatively, equating it with the mindless consumption of junk TV – and now it seems even games publishes are developing guilt. And guilt is the emotion that often arises when bodies are scrutinised, especially among the demographic that buys fitness games. Sure there are health benefits to the increasing physicalisation of entertainment software, but there is also the underlying taint of pop-culture body fascism.Of course, mModern human-computer interface design is all about seamless integration – the touchscreen, the motion controller, the personalised UI; it's all about meeting our innate cyborg urge. But when the barrier between game and gamer disintegrates, the concept of virtual play will irrevocably mutate. Right now, several tech companies are working on  players to control the action with thoughts alone. Last year, while Californian company Emotiv was showing off its take on the technology, the press representative talked about how it could pick up on emotions – if you smiled after killing a character, the game could admonish you for your cruelty.Soon even our psychological responses to the videogame universe could be under scrutiny. How comfortable are you with that?
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday 10 September 2009In the article below we were wrong to say that Microsoft's Xbox 360 uses the 45 nanometer processor; the latest version uses the older 65nm technology. We  also said Sony claims its new PlayStation 3 Slim, using a 45nm processor, consumes 11% less power than the previous version of PS3 – the claim is 34% lessLast week at the Gamescom trade show in Germany, Sony finally announced a cheaper version of its struggling PlayStation 3 games console, the PS3 Slim, which is expected to reach the shops early next month. American and European consumers will see PS3 prices fall by $100 and €100 respectively to $299 and €299, while UK buyers will see a £50 price drop to £249.99.Andy House, president of Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, undoubtedly heard the cries for a £100 price cut in the UK, but given Sony's financial problems, £50 is the best he can do. He knows most consoles are sold after the price drops below the £200 barrier, but Sony is closing factories and shedding staff, and the PS3 is selling at a loss. As his chief executive Sir Howard Stringer recently quipped: "I lose money on every PlayStation I make – how's that for logic?"House says Sony is trying to broaden the console's appeal beyond the gaming fan base. "I think the lower price point gives you the opportunity to branch out into more of a family market," he says. "We've put in place new brand positioning before the PS3, and the strapline is 'The game is just the start'. The idea is to have a broader entertainment offering.""At our press conference, I spent a considerable amount of time talking about the improvements we've made to PSN [PlayStation Network], and we confirmed the launch of a video delivery service in major markets in Europe this November. We also talked about catchup services for television available on PS3, with the BBC's iPlayer for the UK market."Within the gaming world, we're moving from a relationship that ended when we sold them [customers] a game to one where their relationship with us begins with that game, and obviously takes its life online. And also, the PS3 is a multifunctional device and a gateway into multifunctional entertainment."This was always the core PlayStation 3 strategy, of course, but with the emphasis on selling Blu-ray movies. House puts a positive spin on this: "We're very fortunate in having a sister company that's a Hollywood movie studio, with whom we're working in close collaboration," he says. But Blu-ray got embroiled in a battle with HD DVD, and Microsoft's focus on its Xbox Live online strategy turned out to be much more successful. The future, surely, is downloads.But times are hard. At this point in the games console life cycle, the three main suppliers – Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft – should be growing sales as their machines benefit from price cuts and the appeal of their growing software catalogues. Instead, the market is in decline and they are all having to watch the pennies.Nintendo has been hit worst: sales of the all-conquering Wii fell from 5.2m to 2.2m units for the second quarter, a 57% decline compared with the same period last year. Nintendo's revenues fell by 40% to 253bn yen (£1.6bn), and profits were down by 61%. But at least it made money, unlike Sony and Microsoft's entertainment divisions.At Sony, PS3 sales fell from 1.6m units last year to 1.1m in the same quarter, while sales of the PlayStation Portable plunged from 3.7m units to only 1.3m. Both suffered the ignominy of being outsold by the antique PlayStation 2, which shifted 1.6m units. Still, the division that contains Sony Computer Entertainment lost ¥39.5bn ($418m) in the quarter, which is more than Sony's overall corporate loss of ¥37bn.Microsoft was the only one of the three to claim an increase in console shipments to 1.7m units compared with 1.3m in the same quarter last year, though this was only after it reduced prices. Overall, Microsoft's entertainment and devices division saw revenues slip by 2% to $1.6bn and last year's $106m (£65m) profit turned into a $31m loss.Microsoft was able to cut prices by updating its console to use a processor fabricated using a more advanced 45nm process. Sony, which launched later than Microsoft, has now reached the same stage and the PS3 Slim similarly benefits from a move to 45nm. The new processor is cheaper to manufacture, uses about 11% less power and generates less heat. Sony has therefore taken the opportunity to reduce the size of the case, just as it did when it launched the slimline version of the PlayStation 2. Or, you might say, just as Microsoft didn't, following its struggle to stop the Xbox 360 from overheating.Sony has also benefited from a huge reduction in the cost of fitting a Blu-ray drive, which pushed the original PS3 manufacturing cost to something approaching $850 per unit. Chief financial officer, Nobuyuki Oneda, said Sony had reduced the manufacturing cost by "about 70%, roughly speaking". This would put the unit cost at about $250 – not counting marketing and advertising or the dealer's profit margin – on a machine that sells for $299.Console manufacturers traditionally make up the difference from profits on high-priced games and peripherals, but you can understand Stringer's dislike for the short-term financial consequences. And if the cost estimates are roughly correct, the PS3 is still in a deep financial hole from which it will take years to recover.This is the main reason for thinking that John Carmack, a founder of id Software, is wrong in speculating that Sony could be the first to "jump the gun" andmove to the next generation with a PlayStation 4."I'm very intrigued as to why that speculation has emerged," says House. "I would have thought the new model is indicative of a much longer life cycle. The overall trend for me is that we've moved away from a short-term, toy-based life cycle to one that more closely resembles other consumer electronics devices. One of the reasons we feel tremendously confident about the PlayStation 3 business is that the [online service] allows us to offer a new value proposition to entrants to the market, while at the same time, adding value to the PS3 experience for existing users."Carmack's speculation is based on the fact that delays to the PS3's launch put it behind Microsoft in the product cycle. Sony is now trailing in third place. Being first with a next-generation console could change that, but it's hard to imagine what the next generation PlayStation would look like.Sony aimed high with the PS3, and paid heavily for the development of the Cell processor and Blu-ray drive. Taking either of those forward would be even more costly. It's much easier to imagine a new Xbox 360 with a faster processor, Blu-ray instead of DVD and Project Natal body control functionality built in. And the Wii, which is relatively underpowered and has much worse graphics than the PS3 or Xbox, could easily be improved.Still, the lower price of the PS3 Slim is certain to boost sales in the short term, and it remains to be seen whether Microsoft will respond. Being ahead of Sony on the cost-reduction curve, it could cut the Xbox 360's price. But having just announced its first-ever fall in annual revenues, Microsoft might not be keen to do that.Even with Wii sales collapsing, it seems unlikely that the PS3 Slim will win the important Christmas sales battle. However, at least it's still in the fight.
Searching for a cheap PCMy parents are in their 70s, and want to upgrade their ancient (15-year-old) PC and get online. They don't want a laptop and have asked me to source a reliable PC with a flat-panel monitor for around £300. I'm struggling.Paul EnglishJS:It may not be easy to hit the £300 price point on a new, name brand machine running Windows. However, there are often special deals that come close. At the moment, for example, Dell is offering an Inspiron 545 desktop PC deal (search the site for D004528) with an 18.5in widescreen for £329 including VAT and shipping. It's not the prettiest machine around, but the price includes 2GB of memory, a DVD +/- RW drive, Windows Vista Home Premium and Microsoft Works 9. The screen resolution is limited to 1366 x 768 pixels, but the text should be quite big.It will be best if you remove any unwanted trial software and install some free programs such as AVG or Avast antivirus software, SuperAntiSpyware, and IE8 (if it comes with IE7) and either Firefox or Google Chrome. Supermarkets offer good deals from time, especially Aldi with its Medion PCs, but generally these are for limited periods.You can also find cheap PCs from local companies such as Mesh, which offers theR2S Matrix A7550running Ubuntu for £200 plus delivery charges, if you feel up to supporting that. You can shop around for a cheap LCD screen. Another option, if your parents have a good LCD TV, is to buy a tiny Asus Eee Box and clip that to the back, or an Acer Aspire Revo. The Eee Box is basically an Atom-powered netbook running Windows XP in 1GB of memory, while the Revo has 2GB and runs Vista. Neither offers the performance of the Dell Inspiron, nor its DVD drive. But they're fine for web surfing and email, and take up little space.Bear in mind there's only a tiny profit margin on a £300 PC, and your parents can't expect much in the way of support unless they pay for it separately, or you do it. Dell offers 3 years' support, including evenings and Saturdays, for £95.20.Mac OS X for PCsI've been told that Macs are really PC's now that they have Intel chips. Does this mean that Mac OS X can be installed on a PC?Christopher KingJS:The original 1984 Mac had little in common with the standard PCs of the day, but Apple has now adopted most PC industry standards apart from the antiquated BIOS chip, the keyboard, and Windows' NTFS file system. This has made it far easier to run Mac OS X on a PC than it used to be, andthe OSx86 projectis dedicated to making it easier. Searching for OSx86 and/or hackintosh will give you a good idea what's involved. It's not something I recommend for serious use, though it's understandable when people want hardware that's outside Apple's range of offerings.Mac and PC sharingIs it possible to use an external hard drive on both a Mac and PC, switching between them, to transfer files? I'm asking because I had what feels like a lucky escape: after shifting some files over and plugging the drive back into my PC, all hell broke loose.Chris HamiltonJS:Both PCs and Macs can read external hard drives formatted using the FAT file system so this should not be a problem. However, Macs tends to add files that are hidden from Mac users but visible to PC users, such as .DS_Store and .Trash folders, so it's not ideal.BlueHarvest can deal with this stuffbut few people bother. Also, FAT is not very robust and you might consider using something likeNTFS-3G and MacFuseso you can convert the external drive to NTFS. But it depends how conservative you are about preserving your data. I have both Macs and PCs and I am extremely cranky, so I'd never share an external hard drive, unless it was networked file sharing. I use USB memory sticks to move files because these are easily reformatted and/or binned without risking any loss of data.Backchat• Mark Ottaway's four-year-old Dell Inspiron laptop is crashing. Since the problem has not been solved by reinstalling Windows, and no viruses are found, it seems most likely to be a hardware problem. However, it could be as simple as fluff and dust, especially if the laptop has been used on a rug or similar surface. On the Ask Jack blog, prdt28 says: "Turn the laptop over and use a vacuum cleaner (on its minimum power setting) to remove dust from the case." In extreme cases, you may have to take the case apart and blow the dust away. Any small particles that short the pins of a chip, for example, can cause crashes. So can loose cable connections.
Peter Brantley makes for an unlikely revolutionary. Bookish-looking and wearing a flat cap, he is quiet, composed and chooses his words with the precision of an academic – hardly the hallmarks of a rabble rouser.And yet that is the position that this Texan – who works in San Francisco for the non-profit Internet Archive – has found himself in recently, as he becomes embroiled in a bizarre battle against the internet's most powerful company.Brantley is the point man for the Open Book Alliance, a hotchpotch of corporations and organisations that is opposing Google's $125m (£76m) deal to gain the rights to digitise and sell every book in America. So far, the group has brought together a strange collection of bedfellows – not only Google rivals such as Microsoft, Amazon and Yahoo, but also librarians and writers – united only in their opposition to the proposals."We see this as an organisation that's really quite heterogeneous in its composition," he says, with understatement. "There are writers' groups now, there are library associations, there will be some publishing associations in this group, as well as those large for-profits – each of whom, by the way, has very distinct and very specific interests of their own."The proposal in question is an agreement between Google and American publishers' and authors' groups: a deal announced late last year that sprung out of the internet giant's project to digitise millions of books around the world.Under its terms, Google will pay $125m for what critics say amounts to an exclusive, industry-wide contract – despite the fact that millions of authors will never get the chance to opt out.Brantley characterises the case as "incredibly complex", and he is right. The precise details are stuffed with jargon and sometimes arcane, but the major sticking point is straightforward: whether anyone has the right to decide what will happen to books whose ownership is not clear.Under the scheme as it stands – proposals currently being scrutinised by a federal court in Manhattan – Google would be handed the right to profit from any book whose owner does not opt out, regardless of whether they know about the agreement.It is as if there was a version of iTunes that allowed Apple not only to sell recordings from the labels it agreed a deal with, but also every recording ever made, whether or not the publisher was still in business, or the songwriter still alive.That, says Brantley, is something  that campaigners worry will trample over the rights of millions of untraceable authors and potentially hamper innovation.He is also keen to point out that the alliance is not opposed to the idea of digitising books – just this way of doing it. After all, when Google first started its book search project – which simply created a search engine that linked to books (rather than showing the books themselves) – it was received positively by many of the same people who oppose the new deal."This was something that many of us at universities and at the Internet Archive generally supported: we think that digitising analogue material and making it available for search is an important ability for gaining access to information that might otherwise be locked up," says Brantley."But the settlement is a very different creature from the application Google had originally created."Those comments are familiar to many who cross paths with the 11-year-old internet phenomenon. Many concerned about Google's power believe that – despite its good intentions and "don't be evil" motto – the company is finding itself increasingly drawn into the role of a big corporation.With 20,000 employees and countless products, it is a goliath so feared that even the threat of its presence can alter industries. These concerns are spreading, not just around Silicon Valley and the rest of the world, but also to the halls of power in Washington, DC, where the Justice Department is looking closely at Google for a number of reasons.Last year, famously, Google backed out of a potential agreement with Yahoo – forged largely to spite Microsoft – because it was concerned about the threat of an antitrust investigation.Elsewhere, it is one of a number of firms being questioned by the US Justice Department in an inquiry over allegations that some Silicon Valley companies agreed not to poach each other's staff.And just last month Google's chief executive, Eric Schmidt, stepped down from his dual role as a director of Apple after widespread concerns that the relationship between the two companies was too close for comfort. Part of this increased scrutiny is not particularly Google's fault, but merely a shift in the political climate.With the Obama administration determined to reverse the corporatised free-for-all of the Bush years, the Department of Justice is now casting around for potential abuses of power.That at least is what David Turetsky, a former US deputy assistant attorney general who specialised in anti-trust cases during the Clinton administration, believes. Now with Washington firm Dewey &amp; LeBoeuf, he thinks that regulators are trying to correct the previous administration's laissez-faire approach to monopolistic behaviour.In many ways, Google's actual intentions are less important than the way it presents itself. Because while one increasingly common refrain – that Google is fast becoming the new Microsoft – might not be entirely accurate, mud sticks.Anil Dash, a vice president at the blogging company Six Apart, recently said that he thought Google was undergoing its "Microsoft moment": experiencing a rift between the way the public sees the company (as another corporate monolith) and the way the company sees itself (as a plucky startup)."While that might be true for the vast number of engineers who define the company's internal culture," he wrote, "the external impression of Google being just another tech titan like Microsoft will gain footing, making the audience for Google's messages less tolerant of ambiguity and less forgiving of mistakes."All of that factors into the arguments being made about Google Books right now – though how this pans out remains to be seen.Next week the Manhattan court will finish taking representations from interested parties, while the European Commission is also to look into the potential ramifications for its member states.Brantley, meanwhile, hopes that the deal can be altered in some way to represent the interests of the people who created the books – and to better reflect the reason for digitising books in the first place."I think it's that guiding principle of opening up the discovery of information that motivated Google, and has motivated many of us as we make digital information available online," he says."Although I cannot speak for their motivations, I think where they are now is a very different place from where they started."He is referring to a single, complicated case. But it's a statement that might just as well apply to the whole of Google.
Google and copyright are the main issues in this week's podcast.Bobbie Johnsonstands in again for Aleks, and he talks to Peter Brantley.  Brantley works for theInternet Archiveand is one of the men leading a number of organisations as part of the Open Book Alliance.Google started a project to scan in millions of books from libraries around the world a few years ago, and despite a compromise with the Association of American Publishers and the Authors Guild, parties such as Microsoft, Amazon, Yahoo, librarians, writers and smaller publishers were unhappy with Google's plans.  Bobbie finds out what their problem is with the settlement, and finds out what it's like to take on the internet's most powerful company.Also in this week's programme,Kevin Andersontalks to Matt Mason about piracy and copyright.  The issue remains a hot topic following the news that the British government is once again stepping up attempts to crack down on illegal filesharers.  Mason is a former pirate radio DJ turned author, and believes that piracy is one of the biggest movements in modern life. He argues that youth culture is the driving force behind innovation and that piracy and remixing is fast becoming just another business model.We also hear fromRichard Wray, who updates Guardian Daily'sJon Dennison thethree-year struggleof a British price comparison website to become recognised by the world's largest search engine.As ever, there's this week's news - includingNokia's entry to the computer business,Apple's latest OS updateand howGoogle was ordered to unmask an anonymous bloggerwho called someone a "psychotic, lying, whoring skank".Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Parallels virtualisation software now includes tutorials for computer users switching from Windows to Mac OSI often joke that Macs versus PCs versus Linux is the geek equivalent of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, one of those super-charged, polarising arguments that everyone has a strong opinion about. Even when I'm doing my level best not to show favour to an operating system, it always creates a dust up in the comments.When it come to operating systems, I'm pretty agnostic. My home media server is triple booted with Ubuntu 8.10, Windows 7 and Windows XP. My main machine is a dual-boot MacBook with Mac OS 10.4 Tiger on a big chunk of the 320 GB drive and Windows 7 on a smaller partition. Just to round things out, I run Ubuntu 9.04 booted off of a USB stick, Mac OS 9 via something calledSheepShaverand also Windows XP using the virtual machine software fromParallels. I use anifty bit of software called rEFItto handle booting into various OSes.Before Apple began the switch to Intel chips in 2006, running Windows on Macs was a horrible experience with PowerPC chips having to emulate another chip entirely.Why run Windows on a Mac at all? The answer is simple. Sometimes I have an application I need that is only on Windows.The switch to Intel chips made giving your Mac a split personality much easier and gave Mac users a much wider choice. Apple created Boot Camp to make it easy to partition your drive to run Windows or Mac OS X and provide the necessary Windows drivers, and many companies now provide virtualisation software to run Windows alongside Apple's own operating system.Parallels is just one choice. It competes withVMWare's FusionandVirtualBox, whichSun Microsystems bought in February 2008.The benefits of running Windows via a virtual machine rather than dual-booting the machine is that you don't need to reboot every time you want to switch between OSes, and Fusion and Parallels allow you to run Windows applications seamlessly on the Mac. Windows applications run at near native speeds.Apple has defied expectations by continuing to grow during the recession, despite the premium price for its computers. In the last quarter,half of new Mac purchases came from people who had never owned a Macbefore. Apple'sOne to Onetraining programme is credited with helping people switching from Windows to become familiar with the Mac OS.Looking to take advantage of the trend of people switching from Windows to Macs, Parallels has launched an update of its software, the Switch to Mac Edition, to make it easier to move data from Windows computers to new Macs. The package includes a special USB cable to transfer data or the entire system with licenced applications to the Mac.According to analysts at Needham &amp; Co, one thing holding back computers users from switching from Windows to the Mac OS is lack of familiarity with Apple's operating system."In order for the growing number of Mac users to make the most of the cool capabilities of their Mac, they need to understand how it works, which may not be straight-forward for people who are used to PCs," said Serguei Beloussov, CEO of Parallels, adding, "we have addressed this concern and made learning the new operating system even simpler through interactive on-demand tutorials."The package includes two and a half hours of tutorials that show Windows users basic tasks using Mac OS X, showing users how they relate to tasks in Microsoft's operating system.Now, if only someone could make a similar thing to help people switch to Linux. Before I kick off another spat in the OS wars, yes, I know that Ubuntu will transfer your files from your Windows home directory, but a few good screencasts from Linux users could help people swimming in the deep end for the first few days. If you want to take the plunge, may I suggestHowToForge.
This month's Wired - the US edition, I mean - featuresa lengthy article about Craigslistand why the site is so successful despite the fact that it has barely changed since it launched in the late 90s.Along the way, other questions come up: How much money does it make? What is the secret of its success? Why are its leaders so disdainful of money?It's an intriguing subject, but despite grappling through the piece I couldn't help but scratch my head a little at some of the underlying premises. This is not because I think Craigslist isn't interesting (I do). And it's not because I don't think it's worth asking where all the money goes (I do). And it's not because I would't like to understand what goes on behind closed doors (because I would).Instead, it felt as if there was some hidden subtext to the article that I just wasn't getting. What was it?Certainly, the allegation of deliberately old fashioned look is true. Craigslist is ugly by most definitions of web design. It's sometimes overwhelming, and there are certainly times when I cry out for better functionality. But it works, it's successful and people use it a lot.And, if that's the case, why the long form criticism? After all, it's rarely dished out at another website that has made billions out of lists of ugly links, Google. Like Craigslist, Google is at heart, ugly and successful. So what's the deal?I'm not the only one who is a little baffled by Wired's attitude. Fred Wilson, a venture capitalist with Union Square, points out that this "somewhat strange" article iseffectively criticising Craigslist for being successful.Perhaps it's because it'snot the sort of success that Wired expects.Reading the article again from this point of view, the real subtext appears to be less about Craigslist's wilfully old-fashioned approach, but its unwillingness to play the game.A great deal of the piece is given over to founder Craig Newmark's generally anti-corporate attitudes and his disdain for the wealth - there is almost wide-eyed amazement at the fact that he seems more interested in living a relatively quiet, comfortable life than taking on Microsoft, Amazon or another long-established industry giant.That's not an allegation you could level at Google, which has married ugliness with ambition. From the article:Newmark's claim of almost total disinterest in wealth dovetails with the way craigslist does business. Besides offering nearly all of its features for free, it scorns advertising, refuses investment, ignores design, and does not innovate. Ordinarily, a company that showed such complete disdain for the normal rules of business would be vulnerable to competition, but craigslist has no serious rivals.These points seems slightly empty to me if you didn't already come to it with an expectation of what "business" means (ie the corporate technology business).Perhaps the problem is that Craigslist doesn't operate to the same sort of standards or storylines that Wired (or Silicon Valley) demands. You don't hear that many people complain about Google's drab look because they are too busy in the latest product launch, or the latest attempt to beat Microsoft, or Apple or trying to change the way we live forever. Google plays the game.In comparison to Larry Page and Sergey Brin, who gallivant around the world on private planes and dream of space and fund DNA startups, Newmark and his CEO, Jim Buckmaster, just don't fit in. With their Berkeley politics and left coast opinions and drab offices - married with no demonstrable desire to be awesomely rich - they have become fascinating and frustrating to their competitors and to the press.My suspicions were confirmed when I read a blog post about the article, in which author Gary Wolfsays the story started"when the magazine's editors asked me a pointed question: How can a site that's so good be so bad?". Their "vehement" hatred of the site, he said, caught him off guard.It strikes me that Wired, at least in this case, has fallen into a certain view of how the web works, how the world operates and how innovation happens. Each idea needs to be bigger and shinier than the last one. Each iteration needs to take on a competitor. Each idea needs to alter our lives.I think there's plenty to criticise Craigslist for, and it's always worth being sceptical about anybody's motivations. But being so confounded by somebody just because they don't really care much about getting rich? That's the real tragedy.UPDATE:Some nice comments, including pointing out that Craigslist and equivalents provide a service that lots of people use and enjoy, as well as one fromcarabucciferrowho suggests that "more companies need to start adapting the kind of thinking that craigslist exemplifies". I certainly think they certainly have an attitude that's worth thinking about there: successful and financially-motivated don't have to go hand in hand.Meanwhile, on his blog, the brilliant David Weinbergeralso wonders what's going on- and Wolf, the author, responds in the comments.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Viva Pinata, Kameo, Banjo Kazooie Nuts 'n Bolts – it's fair to say thatRare'soutput for the 360 has been patchy at best. Okay, Kameo was a launch title and certainly had some nice show-off moments for owners of the new 360. Pinata too was worth a go, primarily because the colourful and deceptively deep gardening/nurturing gameplay stood out against the incessant 360 back drop of shooters and sports titles. But honestly – you won't be reminiscing about either, or any of Rare's recent games, in ten years time like you do with the likes of Goldeneye.Accordingto Rare's design director George Andreas this relative failure – none of the games sold well - is as much down to the demographic of the Xbox as the quality of the games.We've obviously been tasked to create experiences that nobody else can create, which explains things like your Kameos and your Piñatas and your Banjos. But obviously the hardware is aimed at a different demographic, and so we've always battled against that.According to Andreas though, things are about to change. Yes, it's all aboutProject Natal.Whereas now with Natal, it looks like the roads are on the same path. It's a union of the two philosophies of the different companies, I guess. Natal is supposed to reach out to a broader audience and a broader consumer, and Rare's products are always aiming in that direction as well. So from that perspective the future looks incredibly bright for us really. It's definitely something everyone's enthused about and energised about.Anyone who has played Nuts and Bolts or Viva Pinata may dispute his assumption that Rare aims for the broader audience. Yes, they look graphically friendly and welcoming but both titles are classic hardcore games with numerous menus to navigate and controls to master.  Hardly Wii party fodder. But could Natal change all this? I'm not sure that a Natal-ised Banjo game, for example, would really drag in a new audience. But what do you think? Could Natal help Rare return to its glory days?
Software giant Microsoft has issued an apology after it emerged that the company's Polish arm had altered a promotional image to change the race of one of the people pictured.In the US, the image featured three employees sitting around a meeting table - one white woman, and two men, one black and one Asian.When it was used in Poland, however, the advert - which promised Polish businesses the chance to "to boost your employees using the right tools" - had replaced the head of the black worker with a badly super-imposed face of a white man. His one visible hand, however, remained unchanged.The image began circulating online on Tuesday and after being alerted to the switch, Microsoft took down the image and said it was trying to discover who was responsible.The original version of a photo Microsoft later doctored for Polish users"We are looking into the details of this situation," said a Microsoft spokesman in a statement. "We apologise and are in the process of pulling down the image."Although the doctored image has quickly removed and replaced with the original, it has already become the target of online jokes.On thePhotoshop Disasters blog, where readers dissect bad photo editing, questioned whether should have chosen to use the original rather than "clumsily get rid of the black guy".One user jokingly suggested that the gaffe was actually an attempt to cram more racial backgrounds into a single image."I think the intention was to make this ad even more PC, since you now have an Asian guy, a woman and a black guy's body with a white guy's head."
&bull; The reaction to the government's confirmation that it ispreparing a slate of new tough laws on unauthorised file sharingcontinues apace. We're reporting thatprivacy campaigners don't like it, government faces like Tom Watson MP is saying it gives the appearance that Downing St has"been captured by the big lobby operations of powerful rightsholders". And even Peter Mandelson's own side aren't necessarily with him - theBBC's Rory Cellan-Jones quotes a Labour party insider (possibly Watson, who knows?) as suggesting that"Peter just doesn't get the internet".&bull; Sony has tried to give its ebook lineup a kick in the backside with thelaunch of new models; the UK will get the Reader Pocket (5in screen for £179) and larger Touch (£249). The company's also released a $400 "Daily Edition" version in the US, but faces less competition since Amazon still hasn't come up with a release date for the Kindle.&bull; After pointing to the8-bit Tripvideo yesterday, I was reminded that I hadn't mentioned a little project by Upcoming.org founderAndy Baio- an attempt to render the classic Miles Davis in chiptune fashion, under the monickerKind of Bloop. Great fun, and Andy explains moreon his blog.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
A century old record  has been broken  after Inspiration, a twin-finned car that looks like a prop from Thunderbirds, achieved an average speed of 139.84mph on two runs over a measured mile, at Edwards Air Force Base, California. That may not sound fast when a car has already broken the sound barrier, but this was a steam car, and the record for this type of machine was set in 1906, at an average of 127.7mph.The British car, with British born driver Charles Burnet III at the wheel, reached a maximum of 151.085mph, a speed greater than the 145.6mph recorded in 1985 by Steamin' Demon, a car designed by Jim Crank of California and driven by Richard Barber along the Bonneville Salt Flats. Unfortunately, a door flew open on "Steamin' Demon", a fire started and the car was unable to make the return run. The Federation Internationale d'Automobiles (FIA), who officially record any record runs, requires cars to run in both directions over a measured mile to cancel out advantages of tail winds in one direction."It was absolutely fantastic," said Charles Burnett III. "The car really did handle beautifully. What we've achieved today is a true testament to British engineering, good teamwork and perseverance."A number of minor problems, and the intense heat at Edwards, have held the car back from the record for the last fortnight. But patience finally paid off.Inspiration is a three tonne construction of carbon composite and aluminium bodywork, space-frame chassis and 300hp twin-stage steam turbines. Painted British Racing Green, the car sounds like a jet fighter and represents the hopes, invention and engineering skills of a team established 10 years ago in Lymington, Hampshire under the patronage of Lord Montagu of Beaulieu.Design expertise has come from Students at the University of Southampton as well as from Welsh engineer Glynne Bowsher, who previously worked on Thrust SSC, the jet-powered car that broke sound barrier in October 1997, and, at 763mph, holds the world land speed record.The BSCC car's boilers can produce steam at a rate fast enough to make 23 cups of tea a second – an enjoyably British fact – and have proved able to power Inspiration into the record books. The aim of the venture has not been for pure speed, nor high-speed tea-making, but to demonstrate to young engineers alternative ways of using clean burning fuels and environmentally-friendly technologies to young British engineers. Although using LPG fuel to turn water into superheated steam, Inspiration trails a cloud of pure water vapour in its compelling wake.But it's unlikely a range of high-speed steam cars will be available at your local showroom any time soon. Inspiration took 2.5 miles to reach its record speed, and two miles to stop with a parachute. That would certainly get fellow road users hot under the collar, and very possibly, steaming.
Like all major videogame events, last week's Gamescom was awash with sequels, film tie-ins and other assorted 'franchises' designed to part us from our cash as quickly and conveniently as possible.However, several brave publishers brought new 'product' to Cologne, bucking the prevailing trend for squeezing all the cash out of original projects and plowing it into well-known WWII shooter series'. Here - just in case you missed them - are ten promising newcomers that all made an appearance on the show floor. Not all of them were being revealed to the universe for the first time here in Germany, but at least they were there, taking up valuable square footage - though I expect it was next to the toilets, or down shadowy service corridors.Part two tomorrow...Calling: J-horror nightmares on the WiiCalling (Wii, Hudson Soft)A Wii-exclusive survival horror shocker based around a website that shows nothing except a number counter which is gradually counting upwards. Turns out it is, in fact the portal to supernatural dimension, and you must escape. Sounds a little like cult J-horror flick Pulse crossed with Silent Hill.Gamescom trailer.Dark Void: shoot up, shoot down, shoot all aroundDark Void (PC, PSP, Xbox 360, Capcom)I mentioned this in my preview gallery last week, but frankly it's not everyday you get to write about a sci-fi jetpack shooter with a new vertical combat system and UFO chase sequences. The story has something to do with human survivors fending off alien invaders - ah, that'll be where the ideas ran out then.Gamescom trailer.Official website.Invizimals: they're quite literally all over the placeInvizimals (PSP, Sony)Previously shown at E3, but interesting enough to mention again, this is an augmented reality pet sim, which uses the PSP camera to scatter virtual animals around your own environment. You must hunt them down, trap them, then put them into battle against each other with your kitchen table, living room floor, or toilet seat providing the backdrop...Gamescom trailerOrder of War: WWII, but this time it's strategic and massive!Order of War (PC, Square Enix)I know that a fare few of our Chatterbox regulars will be interested in this in-depth WWII-based action strategy title from Wargaming.net, which seeks to simulate large-scale battles based on actual historical encounters. Ground troops, tanks, aircraft, plus multiplayer deathmatch and skirmish options. It's out next month.Official websiteTower of Shadow: an intriguing platformer with a shadowy premiseThe Tower of Shadow (working title) (Wii, Konami)Another Wii exclusive from Japanese veteran Hudson Soft, this time a rather offbeat platformer in which you control a boy's disembodied shadow as it scales a gigantic gothic tower. The figure disappears in complete light or darkness, so our path is dictated by lighting conditions - you're also able to manipulate shadows in order to create new walkways. It's due out next spring.Gamescom Trailer
Lord Mandelson's plans to cut off the broadband connections of internet users who illegally download copyrighted music and films were attacked by privacy campaigners, internet service providers and Labour MPs yesterday as unworkable, unnecessary and potentially illegal.The surprise decision to reintroduce the disconnection idea, which was ruled out in the government's own Digital Britain report in June, also sparked accusations that the business secretary has been swayed by secret meetings with senior figures from the music and film industry.Tom Watson, the former cabinet minister who until recently was in charge of the government's internet policy, said the plan "will lead to accusations that the government has been captured by the big lobby operations of powerful rightsholders."TalkTalk, Britain's largest consumer broadband provider, warned that innocent web users could be disconnected after having their connections hijacked by pirates looking to circumvent the new rules. It added that the move "will likely breach fundamental human rights".A spokesman said: "Barely two months after the publication of largely sensible and pragmatic measures to tackle the problem Lord Mandelson has, it seems, caved in under pressure from powerful lobbyists in the content industry."Earlier this month it emerged that the business secretary dined with Hollywood mogul David Geffen at a Corfu holiday villa owned by the Rothschild banking dynasty. Mandelson's advisers deny that this meeting included talk about how to stem the industry's losses caused by illegal filesharing. But Whitehall insiders believe the U-turn is more likely to have been caused by a prior meeting with one of the most powerful figures in the British music business, Lucian Grainge, the chairman of Universal Music, home to Lady Gaga and Rihanna.Grainge is a fierce opponent of illegal file-sharing and is one of the government's chief industry advisers and part of the so-called C&amp;binet – a group of executives who advise ministerial departments on fostering the creative industries in the UK.He was consulted during the compilation of Lord Carter's Digital Britain report as part of an ad hoc "gang of five'' that included BSkyB's Jeremy Darroch, Channel 4's Andy Duncan and the Premier League's Richard Scudamore. Before the report was published he told an audience at the British Library, which included representatives of Mandelson's department: "The creators and the investors [in music] cannot exist with illegal filesharing, period. It will decimate the industry."But the report stopped short of disconnecting the pirates, instead recommending that illegal filesharers should receive letters warning them their activities could leave them open to prosecution.Believing that the government should have gone further, Grainge is understood to have had further meetings with Mandelson to push for tougher measures.A spokesperson for the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills said the business secretary had met many representatives of the creative industries and the government's change of stance was not the result of any single conversation.But the music and film industry has been lobbying hard for tougher measures and Stephen Timms, who replaced Lord Carter's replacement as communications minister said: "It's become clear there are widespread concerns that the plans as they stand could delay action, impacting unfairly on rights holders."As a result, Timms proposed that persistent illegal sharers of copyrighted material should have their broadband connections temporarily disconnected and the power to introduce this measure, if warning letters failed to have an impact on levels of piracy, should rest with the government, not Ofcom. The government hopes to have its plans for dealing with online piracy included in the autumn's digital economy bill.But privacy campaigners say the government's new proposals could fall foul of the law — as they did in France earlier this year. Simon Davies, director of Privacy International, warned: "This proposal fundamentally reverses the onus of proof. It establishes systemic accusation. It is fraught with technical impossibility, it invites circumvention and creates a major online conflict between rights holders and users. And these are fundamental rights that are being violated.""Cutting people off the internet for allegedly infringing copyright is disproportionate," added Larry Whitty, chairman of Consumer Focus. "And to do so without giving consumers the right to challenge the evidence against them undermines fundamental rights to a fair trial."John Petter, head of BT's consumer business, meanwhile, expressed his disappointment at the government's change of direction. "We were broadly supportive of the original plans but these changes run the risk of penalising customers unfairly."A spokesperson for Virgin Media, meanwhile, added "persuasion not coercion is the key to changing consumer behaviour as a heavy-handed, punitive regime will simply alienate mainstream consumers. The government should be ensuring a balance of action against repeat infringers and the rapid development of new legitimate services that provide a compelling alternative to illegal filesharing."
The music and movie industries have scored another victory against filesharing site The Pirate Bay. A Swedish court has ordered its largest internet service provider to cut its connection or face fines.Stockholm district court handed down the ruling on 21 August, threatening Black Internet with a 500,000 kronor (£43,188) fine for failure to comply. The internet company must comply with the order until the ongoing case between Pirate Bay and the entertainment industry is over, according to the ruling.Black Internet's chief executive, Victor Moeller, said it lacked the financial means to the fight the court order and told the online edition of the Dagens Nyheter newspaper: "There are laws and rules in society and they should be respected."The site's operators, Gottfrid Svartholm Warg, Peter Sunde and Fredrik Neij, and Carl Lundström, who was accused of funding it, were found guilty in April after a copyright trial in Sweden.Despite the conviction, the site continued to operate,leading more than a dozen movie studios to sue to take the site offline.Former Pirate Bay spokesmanPeter Sunde said on Twitter: "A Swedish court apparently decided it is illegal to be an ISP."Black Internet was one of several ISPs providing bandwidth for the site, but it is the largest. The site has been up and down since then.In other developments, further doubts have emerged whether a proposed sale of the site toSwedish software company Global Gaming Factory X ABwill go forward.The Swedish stock market halted trading in GCF, and market officials are investigating whether the company has the funds necessary to complete the deal. Adding to the uncertainty, GCF chairman Magnus Bergman has reportedly resigned.In an interview with theBBC, GCF chief Hans Pandeya insisted the deal will go throughon 27 August to buy the site and turn it into a legal business, by charging users and paying copyright holders.
The government has confirmed it is considering a tough new crackdown on illegal filesharing, as reported in today's Guardian, saying that previous plans would take too long to implement "given the pressure put on the creative industries by piracy".Under the tougher proposals, internet service providers would be obliged to block access to download sites, throttle broadband connections or even temporarily cut off access for repeat offenders.Communications regulator Ofcom would report regularly to the business secretary, Lord Mandelson, providing evidence of whether such action is required against illegal filesharers.The consultation document from Mandelson's Department for Business Innovation and Skills proposes that the secretary of state could then direct Ofcom to implement a raft of new technical measures.Cutting off access was ruled out in the government's Digital Britain report released in June.In the report, the then communications minister, Lord Carter, said illegal filesharers should receive letters warning them their activities could leave them open to prosecution. If that failed to reduce piracy by at least 70%, Ofcom would have the power to call on internet service providers to introduce "technical measures" to combat piracy. The most draconian penalty considered at the time was slowing down persistent filesharers' broadband connections.Previously, it was planned that Ofcom would evaluate the action necessary to dramatically decrease illegal filesharing, but the government said that would mean the new technical measures would not be ready until 2012 at the earliest.The music and film industries have lobbied hard for tougher measures to be introduced before this date."We've been listening carefully to responses to the consultation this far, and it's become clear there are widespread concerns that the plans as they stand could delay action, impacting unfairly upon rights holders," said Treasury minister Stephen Timms, who is responsible for implementation of Digital Britain.Welcoming the move, the chief executive of music industry trade body the BPI, Geoff Taylor, said that digital piracy posed "a real threat to the UK's creative industries". "Today is a step forward that should help the legal digital market to grow for consumers," he said.While the creative industries will be pleased, internet service providers are not only being asked to police users for illegal filesharing, but the government is also proposing that the costs of enforcement be borne by the ISPs and the rights holders.Digital rights groups condemned the move. Calling it a "knee-jerk reaction", Jim Killock, the executive director of the Open Rights Group said: "Suspension of internet access would restrict people's fundamental right to freedom of expression. It would also fly in the face of the government's policy of universal broadband access."He also accused the government of making the decision based on "private conversations" and will be lodging an official complaint "about the shoddiness of this consultation process".
After a lot of behind-the-scenes arguments, Wikipedia looks set to adopt changes that will make it much harder for contributors to edit the site.The so-called "flagged revisions" will mean that any change to an article about a living person will need to be approved by an editor."We are no longer at the point that it is acceptable to throw things at the wall and see what sticks," Michael Snow, chairman of the Wikimedia board, told theNew York Times. "There was a time probably when the community was more forgiving of things that were inaccurate or fudged in some fashion — whether simply misunderstood or an author had some axe to grind. There is less tolerance for that sort of problem now."The idea has been coming down the pipeline for a while -I reported on the proposals back in January, and they were pretty contentious at the time (if you're interested in precisely how flagged revisions would work, there is apage describing the technical aspects here.It's intended to make Wikipedia more accurate - and to avoid situations like that ofJohn Siegenthaler, who was anonymously libelled. And it'snot the first restriction brought in for that purpose.But obviously it's the sort of thing that could turn a lot of people away from contributing to the site - linking in with the recent stories I wroteabout how the site is closing itself offto new users andincreasingly relying on power editors.
It seems only yesterday that the Nintendo DS and Sony PSP were the kings of handheld gaming. Yes, there was the occasional half-decent puzzle game released for mobile phones, but the DS and the PSP were the only viable option.Not any more. The iPhone and iPod Touch – complete with iTunes – have shattered this cosy duopoly. The cheap price points for games alone have given publishers a huge wake up call. But you already know this. More interesting are the meatier games now appearing on the Apple format. Civilisation Revolutionis a case in point. Essentially a more user-friendly and focused update of the classic strategy series, Civ Rev was a huge success on the consoles last year.Luckily, most of what made the console versions so enjoyable has been transferred to the iPhone. So players get to build their civilisation from the ground up, competing against opposing nations in a battle for supremacy. Like all the Civilisation games there is a huge amount of depth. City building, combat, exploration, diplomacy – it's all here. Unfortunately, so are some issues. The main concerns are control related, with the touchscreen and interface not quite responsive enough to feel fully in control. Icons clutter up the screen and the tutorial – so crucial in a game like this – feels undercooked. There are also limitations on scrolling which makes it harder to plan ahead. Perhaps unsurprisingly multiplayer is missing too.Despite these issues there is plenty to admire here. The core gameplay is as addictive as ever, with numerous ways to succeed. Unlike so many games brute force is only one option. Diplomacy and science are just as important.  Games can last a few hours though, so shorter-term challenges are included for when time is tight. At £5.99 Civilisation Revolution is one of the more expensive iPhone/iPhone Touch games. Get to grips with the control issues and there is enough strategical gameplay on offer to make it worth the price.
