FlixsterAn app that makes use of the iPhone's satellite locator to work out where you are and locate cinemas in the area showing your chosen film. Or you can select a nearby theatre and see what's on and when, or browse a list of current titles and forthcoming releases – along with ratings and reviews.FreeUrbanspoonAn innovative way to solve the age-old problem of where to eat. Once Urban­spoon has got your location from the phone, just shake it and a slot-machine-style roller picks out a local restaurant that serves your chosen cuisine. If you don't like the sound of it, shake it again. Results are better in cities.FreeSkypeSkype on a computer allows users to talk, free, to other users anywhere in the world. Callers can also have cut-price conversations with people on landlines or mobiles. The new Skype iPhone app brings all of that to the phone.FreeiFootyGet the latest football results, minute-by-minute match reports and news from your club (as long as they're in the top four English leagues or the Scottish Premier). Sadly, the maker has had to remove fixture lists because of copyright problems, but otherwise it includes everything a fan needs. There's a similar app, Cricinfo Mobicast, for cricket fans.FreeMMS Photo MessagingUnbelievable as it may sound, the iPhone can't do picture messaging on its own, so the MMS app is vital for anyone who wants to send pictures over MMS (the phone can email pictures fairly easily, though). It's free to install, but users have to buy credits to send their pictures. Apple will add picture messaging support in the next version of the iPhone, due this summer.FreeBylineKeep track of your favourite websites using this automatic "feed reader". It links up to the free Google Reader service (www.google.com/reader) to keep track of updates from any website of your choice. Open the app and hit the Sync button, and it will pick up new articles since the last time you looked. It even saves the text of the pages, so you can read articles when there's no reception.£2.99ShazamThis music-finding service has been available on all British mobile phones for years – dial 2580 and hold the phone up to speakers playing music and it will send you a text message (at a cost of 50p) with the artist and title. But the iPhone app is free to download and free to use.FreeOcarinaNot all apps are useful or have a particular point. The Ocarina app, for instance, makes the phone act like a cheap musical instrument. Hold it up to your mouth, like a real ocarina, and blow into the microphone and the phone will produce a gentle tone.59pCrayon Physics DeluxeThis groundbreaking game makes great use of the iPhone's touch-screen – the aim is to move a ball from one side of the screen to the star logo at the other side. But you need to do it by drawing shapes on the screen – with a finger – that act as though they are real objects that fall, bounce and move.£2.99ShakespeareThe complete works of Shakespeare on your phone. True, the iPhone's screen isn't well suited to reading a whole play, but this app is handy as a reference tool or if you need to settle an erudite pub argument. It contains all the plays, poems and sonnets.Free•Anthony Dhanendran is reviews editor of Computeractive magazine.
In a distillation of all that is most absurd about online "friendships", a new site called Omegle allows you to chat anonymously to randomly generated strangers. You appear as "You" and the stranger, with pleasing simplicity, as "Stranger". High-school student Leif K-Brooks designed it on his laptop in his bedroom. It went live on 25 March and has already attracted 800,000 unique users."My dad keeps saying he has had the most boring conversations of his life on it," says Leif. "But I don't think you should have something in common with all your friends. I want to broaden people's horizons."Barely anyone chooses to be themselves - and why would you?  In the run-up to Easter  one person used it to ask strangers whether they believe in God and posted copies of his conversations on his own website. They tend to go like this:You:Do you believe in God?Stranger:??? Not rlly. I don't know.It doesn't yet seem, then, to have become a forum for theological discussion. But what about celebrity chat - or intellectual angst? Here are a few attempts at engagement.Stranger:Do you like Brad Pitt?You:Not particularly. I'm more of an Al Pacino fan.Stranger:Eew, he's old.You:How many roads must a man walk down before you call him a man?Stranger:Are you Bob Dylan?You:Er, how did you know?Stranger:You know the words.You:What would you like to ask me?Stranger:Why do you always wear a cowboy hat?You:Keeps the sun off my head.Stranger:I think it's a bit lame.You:Should I stop?Stranger:Yeah, then I'll tell everyone, it was me made Bob Dylan cool.Stranger:I have a crush on a boy, but he's a little bit younger ...You:How old is he? How old are you?Stranger:He's 16. I'm 18.You:I think two years probably doesn't matter too much.Stranger:You think its OK??? Ohhhhh thanks. I was feeling so bad.You:If you could ask President Obama one thing what would it be?Stranger:Why doesn't he bomb Iran?You:Do you think he should?Stranger:Hell, yeah.You:Do you think it would help world peace?Stranger:What are you, some liberal?
It can create a virtual pint, electronic flute or whoopee cushion; help you to beat traffic while avoiding speed cameras; let you read the complete works of Shakespeare; control your home television from the office; tell you the time anywhere in the world; or simply guide you to the nearest place to purchase a decent latte.In fact, there does not appear to be much (bar enhancing your love life or curing a hangover) that aniPhoneapp cannot do - and that is why it has become one of the fastest-growing technological innovations of recent times.More than 25,000 have been created - often by individuals working from home - and they have been downloaded more than 800 million times from the onlineiPhone App Store. From Coldplay to Manchester United, institutions of every shape and size are scrambling to get a piece of the action. Even Steve Jobs,Apple'sCEO, was surprised at the initial success, exclaiming: "I've never seen anything like this in my career in software."Now Trent Reznor, lead singer in a band at the vanguard of bringing technology into the music industry, plans to take things a step further, creating an app that will transform the experience of being a Nine Inch Nails fan.NIN: Access, which is awaiting approval from Apple, could be one way forward for a music industry decimated by downloading in recent years. The application, which will be downloadable free, will let users start multiple conversations with strangers at gigs, locate other NIN fans in their vicinity, stream music, download photos and upload their own remixes. It will create an NIN community orchestrated by the band itself - not by any record company and not via any of the many social networking sites such asMySpaceorFacebook."People are going to steal your music whether you like it or not; it's out there, it's free," said Reznor in an interview with the Observer. "You're never going to make a lot of money selling records like you used to, that's a fact. It's over."And if the latest research is anything to go by, access to music is exactly what iPhone apps fans are after.A survey, carried out by comScore Inc - a marketing research company - found that the single most popular app to date is Tap Tap Revenge, which has been downloaded by a third of those using the App Store. The iPhone equivalent of the Guitar Hero or Dance Dance Revolution rhythm games, Tap Tap Revenge allows the reader to play or tap along to music and the company has already linked up to the likes of Reznor to customise versions of the game.The latest is Tap Tap Revenge: Coldplay Edition, released last week, which, should you be so inclined, allows you to tap along to 10 of Coldplay's greatest hits including Yellow and Viva La Vida.The study found that the best - and generally most successful apps - utilised the iPhone's hardware, such as its motion sensor or GPS.It also revealed that 12 of the top 25 most popular applications were games, including versions of classics such as Hangman and Pacman, while social networking applications proved popular."With the amount of downloads they've had since the App Store launched last July, it must be one of the fastest rising businesses since the launch of the internet," said David Rowan, editor of the newly launched Wired UK magazine. "What's good about the App Store is that there's quite a low barrier to entry, so many of these programmers actually have day jobs and are just working on these apps in their spare time."Individuals can download the software, create their own application, and for a one-off fee of $99 (&pound;68) register as a developer with Apple, and then have it stocked in the App Store. If they do decide to charge for their application, they can set the price, and keep 70% of the charge, with 30% going to Apple.Most applications in the store are written by third-party developers. For some this has been a return to the early days of the internet, or even computing itself, when young aspiring developers could make a living from their bedrooms.A major part of the App Store's success is down to its simplicity and pricing. Most of the apps are free or a nominal price such as 49p. As one developer puts it: "If an app only cost 49p, people don't mind if they only use it once or twice, and it's not even the end of the world if it actually turns out to be a bit crap."Ross McKillop, who developed the MMS application, which allows users to send and receive pictures and video (frustratingly, the iPhone can't receive a picture text message, although the next model will rectify that), thinks the reason iPhone App has taken off is simple: "We've had mobile phones with internet access for years, but it was so sluggish and non-user-friendly that hardly anyone bothered using it."Malcolm Barclay has a background in computers but is a self-taught programmer who saw a gap for an application that offered updates on the London Underground. "The idea doesn't have to be unique," he said. "It's not rocket science that you might want to be able to retrieve Tube information on your phone, it just comes down to execution. I just wanted to make it so simple and easy to use, and of course I made it free, so there was no reason not to try it."After the success of Barclay's TubeStatus, he was deluged with requests to provide a fuller package including maps and a journey planner option. "I thought someone else would do it, but after a few months no one had, so I just did it myself." TubeDeluxe sells for 59p.The concept took shape for Nine Inch Nails one night last summer when Reznor was "fooling around" with his phone backstage before a gig and noticed fans queuing to get in were already uploading pictures of the scene. "So we then communicated with them and said, 'We're backstage' and that freaked them out," explained Reznor. "But that got the wheels turning and we thought, 'How can we develop that?' "The fact that NIN are not tied to a record label frees them to experiment with such new ideas. "Record labels do not know how to deal with the new media environment that they're confronted with," he added. "They've made their fortunes selling plastic discs and now no one wants to buy plastic discs - they're just trying to get their fingers in every other pie, but they're so greedy and ignorant they're not prepared to do what they have to do." The key to success, argued Reznor, is not to see the apps primarily as a way to make money: "All we're trying to do is make something cool. Something that as a fan you'd say, 'Hey, I want to have that'. If we can monetise it, then that's fine, no problem."The notion of thousands of fans talking at a concert via their iPhone may sound hellish to old-fashioned gig goers. "On a personal level, I do find that kind of silly," agreed Reznor. "I tend to not take cameras on vacation any more as I want to experience that moment as a human, not as a documenter. At a concert, it's up to them, I can't tell them how to experience a concert. If that makes you feel like you had a better time, holding a phone up the whole time, then OK."Naturally, Apple's competitors are keen to move into the market. The main competitors are Google Android Market, launched in October last year, for phones that run on the Android system, Nokia's Ovi store, and the just launched Blackberry App Store. Microsoft is also planning to launch a Windows Marketplace later this year. "Nothing keeps still for very long in this field," said Rowan, "and when you have a booming market dominated by one company, other people are going to look at it."A few developers have made a small fortune, but McKillop has a sober word for anyone looking to cash in: "We certainly haven't made a fortune from our application. Although we have got a lot of other work through it. I believe the guy who created the iFart [whoopee cushion] is a millionaire though ... draw your own conclusions from that."
FlutterA mockumentary to convince us all that micro-blogging and vowels are, like, so five hours ago. The future's nano-blogging and it will come in "twntysx chrctrs r lss."Cisco FattyA Twitter "fail" on an unprecedented scale as one tweet-happy job applicant makes an ill-advised revelation. But who cares about saying goodbye to a "fatty pay check" when you've just become a meme?Live Squirrel FeedShame on you puppies, when did you actually do anything? They may lose out in the cute stakes to their canine/feline/leporid counterparts, but the squirrel-cam triumphs for its subjects' perky industriousness.Anti-gay marriage ad auditionsThese just-leaked audition tapes are garnering plenty of derision for being as terrible, though a lot more amusing, than the final ad in all its doom-mongering horror.TracksAC/DC - Big JackiTunes, 79pThe Aussie rockers deliver trademark big guitars on this new double A-side.Frankmusik - Better off as TwoiTunes, 79pThe hype surrounding the London newcomer shows no sign of abating. His latest single is dancefloor-savvy power pop.The Veils - The Lettermyspace.com/theveils, free streamTaken from their new album Sun Gangs, "The Letter" packs a punch with a chorus that invites hip swinging rather than introspection.VideosEminem - We Made Youtinyurl.com/c9n3fb, free videostreamIt's like he's never been away. Like the cartoon strip-style videos of old, the rap star's offering includes his take on Amy Winehouse and Sarah Palin. Pretty this ain't.
Street View, the controversial service fromGooglethat broadcasts 360-degree views of homes and roads in many of Britain's cities via the internet, is not a threat to personal privacy, the information commissioner has ruled.Hundreds of people have already complained about the month-old-service that allows users to view millions of photographs of homes, people and cars, in 25 cities and towns. Although Google obscures faces and numberplates, critics say it is voyeuristic and has become a tool for burglars. Scores of pictures, including one of a man leaving a Soho sex shop, were removed the day after the site's UK launch. In the US, fans use the site to identify the homes of celebrities and in some cases images of the stars themselves.Earlier this month residents in Broughton, an affluent village in Buckinghamshire, formed a human chain to block a Google car, with a tripod-mounted camera on its roof.Anticipating the concerns, the UK's leading privacy protection campaign group, Privacy International, lodged a formal complaint with the Information Commissioner's Office last month. But, in a 2,500 word response, the ICO said it was satisfied that Google was not breaching privacy laws.It also dismissed Privacy International's argument that Street View should seek people's consent. "If consent were required by the law, then the producers of, say, Match of the Day, would have to gain the consent of all people attending televised football matches who might be caught on camera," it commented.Privacy International said it was "disappointed at the findings", and that some parts "lack the rigour that is necessary to protect Britain from the encroachment of the surveillance society".The ICO stressed it would keep the issue under review and address any issues raised by individuals who feel that Google has not removed problematic images. It added: "In our opinion, there is no clear evidence that the community find Street View particularly harmful or insidious."A Google spokesman said: "We look forward to a constructive dialogue with Privacy International and other privacy stakeholders."
Nothing is more disturbingthan the wallpaper in 1970s Danish pornReal menwrite memosHow tospeak catKeaneare now available in 3-DThe bestGoogle Maps mash-ups for travelTo give upour seats to people who need it moreCommunist RussianMad Men knew how to sell a suitPaul Ross is goodbut he's no CheggersBill Gateswas wrong
Set in a place called Netherworld where doing bad things is considered good, you're a student at the Nether Institute Evil Academy on a quest to kill your father the Overlord, assisted by purple cartoon penguins that call you "dood". Disgaea's sense of humour goes some way beyond zany and permeates every aspect of the game, from its introductory screens to its dialogue. Underneath all that is a Final Fantasy Tactics-style, turn-based strategic combat game with almost dizzying levels of depth and complexity. Combining the steady addition of new skills and weapons, with an increasing repertoire of both fighters and methods of attack, once it all starts to fall into place, Disgaea 3 is savagely addictive. If you've played previous outings, the sheer intricacy of battles will be less intimidating, but for those new to the series, the learning curve will be steep, yet well worth the perseverance.• Square Enix, &pound;44.99
The historic efforts of the food industry to produce a margarine that tastes and looks like butter have been matched of late in the car industry, where a great deal of development has gone into producing diesel engines that sound and perform like petrol engines.Nowadays there are cars whose names could be changed, without fear of mockery or prosecution, to I Can't Believe It's Not Petrol! But the Skoda Octavia SE 2.0 TDI is not among them. If the Skoda were a margarine, you'd use it only for baking cakes. I've been in black cabs that make less of a vibrating racket.Perhaps there's something to be said for not disguising diesels, but instead make a virtue of their noisy fuel efficiency. After all, why hide your principled effort to save the world (as well as a few quid at the petrol station)? Why conceal your conscientiousness? Better to shout loud, I've got a diesel and I'm proud.The Octavia does the shouting - or rumbling - for you. In all other respects, however, it does little to draw attention to itself. That's been the secret of its considerable success. The new Octavia has a few minor changes, but of the spot-the-difference variety that would tax even the most astute observer.The headlights have been modified, the steering wheel's slightly changed and the wheels are a tad less unsexy. It's hard to imagine that owners of the previous model are now going to feel embarrassingly old-fashioned.In any case, those who are prone to embarrassment about such superficialities are not likely to buy a Skoda in the first place. For the Octavia remains a solid, unfussy saloon. It won't win prizes for beauty or originality, but there's a reasonable amount of legroom in the back seats, and it will do almost everything a car that's 10 grand more expensive will do, only with less pomp.It's a car that makes functional sense. Even the dashboard, so often a place of confusion and needless experimentation these days, is simple, clear and easy to read.Lest we forget, of course, Skodas are just another branch of the giant VW conglomerate, which is itself now effectively owned by Porsche. A Skoda, it could be said, is just a Porsche by another name. OK, that may be pushing it, but it is true that plenty of VW-Audi technology underpins the Octavia, and it shows in its fine performance.I drove to Birmingham and back, which is arguably the quintessential Octavia journey: unglamorous but, as on this occasion, necessary. And once the diesel engine got up speed, the ride was impressively smooth. As smooth as butter.Skoda Octavia SE 2.0 TDIPrice£19,025Top speed129mphAcceleration0-62 in 9.6 secondsAverage consumption51.4mpgCO2 emissions145g/kmEco rating8/10At the wheelVince CableBound forTwickenhamIn a wordSensible
As well as "acting", Vin Diesel is also a publicly professed gamer of such keenness that he set up his very own development studio. Wheelman is every bit the Diesel vehicle, feeling throughout like a movie tie-in for a film you'll never see, about Vin dashing around Barcelona assisting robbers, winning street races and earning points for smashing up the city. The on-foot sections are mercifully brief, but harrowingly dull, which at least has the benefit of making the hilariously pumped-up driving sections - involving ramming people off the road and stealing vehicles using an implausible car-to-car leap - seem interesting. Its motorbikes handle like two-wheeled cars, merrily destroying street furniture from bus stops to large trees without so much as slowing down and its plethora of side missions quickly becomes monotonous. Wheelman is a work of deep, almost wilful ordinariness.• Ubisoft, &pound;24.99-&pound;44.99
Within 24 hours last February, Christian Bale went from respected actor to pompous prat when his freak out at a crew member on the set of Terminator Salvation leaked online. Within hours Bale's rant had been remixed, dubbed into Sesame Street and parodied across the web and on T-shirts bearing the legend "Christian Bale And I Are Done Professionally". In this case, most of us knew how it all began but the origins of some internet memes - such as Pants Status (like Facebook status but for trousers), Daft Hands, and David After Dentist ("Is this real life?") - are often a mystery. Here, though, the origins of such web classics as the Numa Numa dance, Rickrolling, Disaster Girl and Epic Fail are explained in documentary form alongside a recap of the all the crap, nonsense and jokes that followed for the benefit of those who don't spend their lives on YouTube.
This fan blog of hipster director Spike Jonze (Adaptation, Being John Malkovich) is also the best place online to find out about one of this year's most keenly anticipated movies, Where The Wild Things Are. Already the combination of James Gandolfini in a monster suit, a beloved children's book come to life, and Arcade Fire on the soundtrack has sent the internets gushing, and here you'll find obsession over every frame of the trailer, plus gossip and early news on toys and spinoffs. Elsewhere are Jonze links, such as his contributions to VBS.TV including an interview with MIA, skateboarding videos, new promos for UNKLE, Kanye West and the Chemical Brothers, and a photo of our man pulling a Ninja pose while balanced on top of a parking meter.
Aside from introducing the game and occasionally popping up if you haven't moved the Wii-remote for too long, the genial Heinz Wolff provides precisely the bow-tie wearing professorly air of the character you would want introducing a game about physics. Solving Gravity's puzzles involve arranging objects in each level so that a falling ball or, in some levels, a slow, self-powered skateboard sort of device, finds their way to a big red button. The pleasant background music is so ambient as to be practically non-existent as you play through the mellow challenge of the game's 100 levels and mess about in the five "sandbox" areas, adding up to a mildly engaging and thoroughly low key experience. Those in search of more brutally testing physics-based challenges should also try Fantastic Contraption, which is free to play online (fantasticcontraption.com) or &pound;2.99 for iPhone owners.• Deep Silver, &pound;16.99-&pound;24.99
Yahoo and Microsoft are talking again, this time about some kind of search/advertising deal, rather than a takeover. Bobbie Johnson has already reported the story inMicrosoft and Yahoo revive talks as Google leaps ahead, so I'll skip that. But behind the scenes, there's a little battle being fought with toolbars.As theDow Jones news wirehas reported, "Yahoo could lose up to 15% of its search traffic over the next 12-to-18 months after failing to renew deals with two computer makers."The deals were with Hewlett-Packard and Acer Inc. Last year, HP switched to Microsoft, while Acer went to Google. To the extent that default search deals drive search engine traffic, Microsoft and Google will benefit while Yahoo will lose.As the Dow Jones story notes: "The loss of these deals likely won't be fully felt for several quarters because it will take time before a sizable number of consumers replace their computers."Yahoo's problem is that its search market share is already down to 20.6%, on comScore numbers, and falling below the psychological 20% barrier will make it less attractive to advertisers. Microsoft, at a lowly 8.2%, is already a long way below it -- hence its interest in doing a deal with Yahoo.I don't think either of them has got a realistic chance of challenging Google, which I expect to keep increasing its market share just like previous tech "monopolies" such as IBM, Intel, Cisco and Microsoft. However, they may need to work together just to stay in the game.It's a fair bet that Yahoo boss Carol Bartz is more willing to deal with that than her predecessor Jerry Yang. And since Yahoo has the market share while Microsoft has the money, there's a very profitable deal to be done.
It's the news some of you have been privately dreading. Hollywood, in its infinite collective wisdom, is lining up a movie conversion of Fumito Ueda's mystical adventure, Shadow of the Colossus. Widely considered to be one of the most beautiful and haunting games ever made, it has ben ear-marked for production later this year at Sony - apparently in collaboration with the games division.Considering the horrendous mess made of recent tie-ins including Max Payne and Hitman, not to mention Uwe Boll's continuing cinematic offensive against the very concept of videogames, it's hardly surprising that the news,broken on Hollywood Reporter's Risky Biz Blog, hasn't been greeted with spontaneous dancing on the streets. "Leave it alone you're going to ruin it," was the general tone of the story's comments section, though some responses were much more colourful and less grammatically sound.Anticipating a wave of abuse and denigration from apoplectic gamers, the movie's script writer, Justin Marks, later gavean interviewto the same site, insisting:"I think many of the games haven't worked as movies because it's hard to find the right game. There are very few that lend themselves to movies [...] With a lot of games there are so many elements in the universe you spend your time tearing down and tearing down," he said. "What's nice about this game is that it's so sparse so you can start building right away."Hmm, that's all reasonable enough... But wait, what was the writer's name again? It sounded strangely familiar...Ah yes, that'll be because, last spring, Justin was voicing the same 'give game movies a chance' platitudes about his previous project, Street Fighter: the Legend of Chun Li. Here's whathe had to say to Gamasutra:"Street Fighter isn't your ordinary game adaptation. It's a gritty, realistic character piece (if I don't say so myself) that just happens to use characters taken from a video game. All hype aside, it's going to be a very different game-to-movie adaptation and I urge everyone to go see it when it comes out next year."Fast-forward a year, then check out theMetacritic score for the Street Fighterflick. It's not pretty. It's 17 out of 100. "Even with the low expectations The Legend of Chun Li engenders, it still somehow manages to be a letdown," wrote the LA Times. So much for the gritty, realistic character piece.Interestingly, in the Gamasutra piece, Marks even manages a bit of a dig at Colossus and its lack of a mainstream audience: "We all need to take a long look in the mirror and realize that there are very few mainstream game franchises that could stand next to the best comics of the 1980s, or the best movies ever. And yes, Shadow of the Colossus and Portal are hands-down better than most anything out there, but no one is playing those games". Yet now here he is scripting a mainstream movie adaptation and assuring us it's exactly the right sort of game for treatment. Go figure.The movie does seem to have cast something of a spell of Hollywood's creative denizens. Inan interview with Edge last yearPan's Labyrinth director, Guillermo del Toro, said, "There are only two games I consider masterpieces: Ico and Shadow of the Colossus".And of course, Shadow plays a small but significant role in Reign Over Me providing an emotional crutch to Adam Sandler's grief stricken protagonist. Perhaps this was the best Hollywood fate for the game - as a symbolic moment within another fiction. In this way, the game can be appreciated for its own intrinsic qualities - there is no need for potentially disastrous re-interpretation.With Prince of Persia and Bioshock set to make their big screen debuts next year, it's going to be an interesting - though probably awful - period for this most tricky of franchise re-packaging endeavours. The former production does at least have a strong cast and crew on board with British director Mike Newell (Four Weddings, Donnie Brasco, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire) at the helm and the usually dependable Jake Gyllenhaal in the eponymous role. There's no guarantee this will make for a watchable film, but it's a leap in the right direction. Or at least a small step in a less worse one.The sensible reaction, though, is to just ignore it. Becoming too precious or aggressive, just cements the divide between movies and games; it makes gamers seem strange and irrational. Mediocre movies are made out of everything from Pulitzer prize-winning novels to political interviews. In the end I suppose one could ask, why should games escape?
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?My favourite piece of tech is myWacom Cintiq [interactive pen display]– I have my 21in [screen] next to my computer. The beauty of it is that I can draw on the screen as easily as I can on paper. It's helped me enormously because I can save the drawing and then send it off to anyone who needs it. I don't have to worry about filling a filing drawer full of sketches.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I'm using it right now. Some of my assistants are sending through Garfield sketches and roughs for some jobs, and I constantly go over their sketches with corrections. We all try to draw Garfield just the same. This has been wonderful because some of the folks I work with are in other states, so we can send all the drawings back and forth and work over the top of each other.What additional features would you add if you could?I wish that the walls would come down between the different software packages – I'm really dreaming now. I'd like to be able to take advantage of aspects lots of different software packages – Illustrator, Photoshop, you name it.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, I think the Centiq will be even bigger. Actually, I'd like to see it the size of my drawing board. It would be nice to have a 60in rather than a 21in – that would be wonderful.What always frustrates you about technology in general?My biggest frustration is actually going away – the time it takes to learn it, and spending a lot of time with manuals. To me it appears that new hardware and software coming out is more and more intuitive, which is great, so there's less learning time and more productive time.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Don't dwell on the limitations – look for the possiblilites in technology. I like to get in and play with it. I say jump in, play, look at what it can do for you. That way, you will be able to find those things that serve you well.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm a nerd – I love technology. Sitting here in my office, I'm surrounded by it. The drapes go up and down, my videoscreen lowers out of the ceiling. I love technolgy.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?That would have been been about 18 years ago – computers were more expensive, and I was making a concerted effort to distribute our art around the world. So I bought aDEC 10000and stuffed it full of Ram. This thing cost about $1m, it was massive. But we were able to take our Garfield art and send it anywhere around the world digitally. It had 24GB of storage, which was a lot for the time – it took up a whole room.Mac or PC, and why?PC. We do have Macs in the art department – the graphics programs and everything else are very nice. I like PCs because of the universality of the programs, and being able to communicate. Graphics are catching up, and I also like the backwards compatibility. I just like the nature and the programs that the PCs offer with Windows.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I can't remember the last time I bought a CD. I do download a lot of media, and I do buy DVDs because I get Blu-ray now. The last Blu-ray I bought was Kung Fu Panda.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?No. There are some things we have to do for ourselves to remind us we're human. Robots have their place – let them work on laser eye surgery or something.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Actually, I'd love to own a Segway golf cart.•Jim Davishas been drawing Garfield since 1978. The cat's latest feature-length animated adventure, Garfield's Fun Fest, is out now on DVD.
The Easter edition of Chatterbox
In addition to the bounty of indie for the console networks and for PCs at this year's Game Developers Conference, there was a crazy rush toward mobile phone games. And not just any mobile phone games: iPhone games in particular. Thanks to the phenomenal success of a few titles, everyone and their dog thinks they can make a million by publishing a new title to the iTunes App Store.And while more often than not this tactic doesn't work, it seems the console (yes,console) has produced a raft of top quality products, many of which were nominated for this year'sIndependent Games Festival Mobile Game Prize. And you know, only one game that walked away with the gong wasnotan iPhone game. It was a Nintendo DS game. Wherefore art thou, N-Gage?To celebrate the machine's gaming success, Apple has released a special page for the Winners and Finalists, so if you're looking for something to spend your £2.99 (and under) on over the long bank holiday, and you'd like to see the best of the mobile games out there (as voted by indie games developers around the world), and, er, you have an iPhone, headhere.
&bull; American phone company AT&amp;T isoffering a $100,000 rewardfor information about a vandal who cut a fibre optic cable and took down52,000 broadband and phone connectionsin the heart of Silicon Valley. No word on whether the suspect is a software engineer who wanted to take an Easter holiday.&bull; With Associated Press complaining thatthey aren't getting enough love from search engines, Heather Dougherty from Hitwisetook a look at the figuresto see how much traffic: turns outother media companiesare just as important as search engines.&bull; How could we send you off for Easter without giving you a little gift? Here's a classic from Lifehacker:the top 10 software easter eggs. Now, eat your chocolate and we'll see you next week.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@jemimakiss,@charlesarthur,@jackschofieldand@bobbiejohnson) or by watching ourDelicious feed, under the usernameguardianista.
Three years ago, EA took the first Godfather movie and turned it into a reasonably entertaining first-person shooter. Since then, the publisher's Redwood Shores development team has brought the whole concept back to the drawing board and attempted to produce something a lot more tactical. The idea is to give you an overview of how organised crime worked in the sixties. So inGodfather II, you take on the role of Dominic, the rising Corleone don of New York.In this role, it's up to you to ensure that the Corleones own every racket in town, from guns and drugs to prostitution and diamond smuggling. I've been playing for several hours now and wanted to report back on what I've seen so far...And what I've enjoyed from the beginning is the sort of collect-'em-all compulsion of the game's strategic exo-skeleton. To take over a racket, you just turn up at the place that's fronting it, probably a bar or warehouse, shoot all the guards and intimidate the owner til he or she comes over to your side. Then you can check out your Don's View map which shows all the rackets in the city, and see that this one is now yours.It's an interesting idea. Not only are you running around the streets with your Tommy Gun, shotgun or pistol, blasting enemy thugs (there are seven weapon types, each boasting three possible upgrades), you're also managing your income generators from above, making sure they're not being attacked by rival families, choosing the next targets for your empire. Once you own a racket, you've got to leave some of your chaps in there to guard it, which costs money – so the financial element must be monitored too. Plus, you're able to recruit a private army – or family – of seven differently skilled men, each of which can be upgraded with new specialties and better weapons licenses.The Godfather then, is a multilayered adventure, part shooter, part Risk-style strategy title (your ultimate aim is to take over all the crimes in the three cities – New York, Havana and Miami) and part RPG, complete with character progression and team battles. Right from the start, you're in the thick of the movie's intrigue, with characters like Michael Corleone, Hyman Roth and Frankie Pentangeli all maneuvering for power and favour between the five crime families. As executive producer Hunter Smith explains, "Both of the first Godfather movies began with big celebrations at the Corleone house with lots of people coming in talking to the don, asking for favours, because he had important people in his pocket. It's an important part of being the don. The same thing happens inside the game."As a Corleone underling, flung into power by the death of your boss, you're trying to eek out your position in the milieu, to find out who to trust. It all plays out through passable cut-scenes, filled with decent dialogue, but rather lacking in truly detailed character modeling or convincing animation. The important thing is, however, you get the feeling that you're in the middle of a huge war.Micro-management of your mini-army is thankfully pretty simple. You can only have three of your seven made men with you on the streets at any time, and they can be ordered to go somewhere, simply by pointing in the right direction and hitting a button. There are certain areas where one of their specialties might come in handy – maybe a lock that needs picking, or a door that needs blasting – and these are indicated by a flashing icon near the offending object. It would be nice to be able to use your own intuition at times, and experiment with where to, say, plant your explosives but the idea is to keep the mechanics of the game as simple as possible.Shoot-outs are excellent fun. The context-sensitive cover system sticks you behind nearby walls if you click the right analogue stick; there's also a reliable lock-on feature on the left trigger, so you can shoot at enemies and circle them at the same time. Melee combat is a synch too with left and right punch on the corresponding triggers; press both and you can grab an enemy and toss them about the place, which looks suitably deranged and violent, especially when you select to click the right stick for a gut-wrenching finishing move.The intimidation scenes are psychotic but horribly amusing. When you want to take over a drugs, gun or diamond racket, you need to find the boss, then effectively torture them into giving the place up to you. There's a little gauge with two red lines – bully them past the first and they'll be ready to give up, but you can keep punching, head-butting or shaking them to up the amount of money they provide to you. Push them to the second red line, though, and they'll either fight back with extreme prejudice or drop dead. It's sort of like a draw and fade gauge on a golf sim – but with baseball bats and body parts.The interesting thing about the violence in Godfather II, is that it is both hugely visceral and ever so slightly cerebral. It requires research. Racket bosses each have a specific fear or weakness – some hate to be hit in the face, some crumble if you start smashing their store up – find the right one and it makes the intimidation process a lot quicker and more profitable. Also, it's possible to assassinate the made men employed by rival families, but to do this, you need to find out exactly the right way to kill them. It might be strangulation, it might be shoving them off the top of a building. If you don't get it right, they just go to hospital, then hit the streets again in a few days.So it's all about balancing and responding to information. At any one time there's a rival family attacking your chop shops or money laundering outfits, while Michael Corleone has a story mission for youandyou have a few side-quests on the go. Often passers-by will have money or information icons over their heads – go up and talk to them and they'll give you little jobs to do, which can help you find your enemies' weak spots, or just fill your family coffers. This is a quite basic interpretation of Grand Theft Auto's loose and seamless range of oddjobs and money-making schemes and, so far, hasn't felt quite as varied or compelling – perhaps because the characters inhabiting this world aren't the bizarre, subversive bunch of weirdos that seem to squirm out of every doorway in Liberty City.Elsewhere, the driving works well. You can hijack any car you like and take it for a spin through the wide, arching streets, enjoying the easy, generous handling. There's a decent variety of motors too from crumbing rusty fans to cool little coupes. Again, though, a few hours in and I'm not getting the raw urgency of GTA or Saint's Row 2, I'm not getting the adrenaline rush or squeezing a muscle car through two cop wagons while Queen plays in the background. The world of Godfather II feels much more functional, stern and serious.Like a lot of EA releases these days, Godfather II has some genuinely interesting ideas. The whole Don's View concept, the management of an entire crime empire, feels compelling and well-balanced. The character progression – the fact that you can choose seven guys for your family and keep upgrading them with new skills and weapons - adds a real sense of humanity to the tactical drama. I haven't got there yet, but Hunter Smith was telling me about the times when, later in the game, you'll get the chance to recruit much more experienced and skillful characters, which will mean taking one of your seven guys out. In the bad, Mafia sort of way. You might have spent the last ten hours of gameplay building them up, spending cash to give them better health and other facets. But business is business. If a better guy comes along, someone has to make way.I like the Monopoly angle on the Don's View too. Essentially, there are two or more rackets of each type on every map. Once you have all the rackets of a certain ilk – e.g. all the brothels or chop shops – you now own a crime ring, which brings extra benefits. Suddenly you'll have a bulletproof vest or an armoured car, for example. It's like sticking hotels on Mayfair and Park Lane.But I can see why the game is pulling in mixed reviews. The visuals are sparse and dated to say the least (though the interiors, including some extremely plush hotels, are better), and already, the tasks are becoming a little repetitive. There's always something on the go, but at times, without the narrative intricacy of GTA IV, you just feel like you're ticking off items on a particularly bloody shopping list. We'll see.I've yet to really explore the multiplayer, which – as I pointed outin my newspaper columntoday – links in cleverly with the single-player. You can enter any of the online modes as one of the seven made men you've recruited, allowing you to improve their abilities before transporting them back into the main quest. You can also earn money shooting it out online, and this can be spent in the single-player mode.As I wrote, EA's studios are full of bright ideas at the moment, but as we saw with Mirror's Edge, that's not always enough. Yet, this game has a strong over-arching story and some really compelling connections with the movie and with the wider history of Mafia involvement in Cuba - for many fans, that'll be enough to keep them blasting through the Machiavellian chaos.
Brushing aside disputes betweenYouTube and music societies, Universal Music Group - the world's largest music company - has just announced that it is going to be partnering with the video sharing website on a new venture.The upcoming site, called VEVO, will give people "premium" access to the whole of UMG's video catalogue - which includes musicians like Kanye West, Taylor Swift, Jay-Z, Eminem, Sting and the Killers -  as well as let them syndicate and share material elsewhere.Eric Schmidt, Google's chief executive, said that he was "committed to promoting greater innovation and choice" - in what some will see as a sideswipe at rivals like Apple's iTunes (certainly, Google doesn't very often partner with companies in this way). The company, he added, was "thrilled to be working with UMG in what will surely be an exciting new service for consumers, advertisers, content creators and the music industry at large".Of course "premium" means you'll have to pay for the privilege - so it seems there's a flavour of iTunes music video downloads here. But otherwise, details of the deal are a little fuzzy.At the moment,the Vevo website is pretty sparse- carrying just a logo and a box for submitting your email address. It also links to the project'sTwitter account, which merely carries a message saying "Welcome to VEVO. Thanks for following. We'll keep you posted."Still, the silence didn't stop amazingly optimistic prediction from those involved."We believe that at launch, VEVO will already have more traffic than any other music video site in the United States and in the world," said Universal boss Doug Morris. "VEVO will be uniquely positioned to monetize this opportunity and a host of others as we grow it to become "the" destination for premium music video content online."Big words. Will it work?
French politicians have unexpectedly rejected a bill that would have cut off the internet connections of anyone found to be repeatedly downloading music or videos without paying for them. The legislation would also have led to the creation of the world's first state surveillance system on web pirates.The fiercely contested bill was rejected today in a sparsely attended vote in the National Assembly.The bill had been championed by the president, Nicolas Sarkozy, whose wife, the singer Carla Bruni, has long advocated a crackdown on piracy. On Monday, film director Steven Soderbergh urged US authorities to draw inspiration from the French bill in their fight against piracy.Under the proposed legislation, new powers would have been granted to music and film companies to enable them to monitor internet users and report illegal downloads to a new copyright protection agency.Anyone found to have broken the law would have been traced via their IP (internet protocol) address and handed up to three warnings before their connection was severed for up to a year. Offenders would have had to keep paying for their internet connection despite it having been cut off.Despite the approval of the French recording industry and prominent musicians, including Johnny Hallyday, some attacked the measure.Civil liberties campaigners and members of the Socialist party said the new surveillance powers were tantamount to "the criminalisation of an entire generation".Others had said it could end up punishing the wrong people, for instance parents whose children download in secret or employers whose staff use computers at work to break the law.Breaking ranks from many of their artistic colleagues, a group of French directors and actors including Catherine Deneuve issued an open letter of protest this week."The law comes in response to legitimate concerns which we all share – concerns that we will see our work devalued and degraded," they wrote. "However this law … is merely imposing a punitive system whose constitutionality is dubious and practicality unclear."
Here's one for theWikigamers(the fearless gamesblog readers who boldly created our ownSpaceship!game last year) - and anyone else who loves text adventures: the classic, epicZorkhas been transformed intoLegends of Zork, a browser-based adventure game inspired by the original classic. For those who've played through Spaceship!, you may recognise at least a few nods in the direction of this game.And it is pretty true. One piece of advice: beware the evil grues.More of this ilk for fun and free is the majesticKingdom of Loathing.
At last eh? Yes the Easter break is practically here. And that means only one thing round these parts - yes, more gaming time. I'm planning to check out some new-ish stuff that I haven't had a chance to try yet - Godfather 2 on 360 and a general wade through the Wii pile primarily - but what about you? What are your Easter gaming plans?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
It's been almost five years sincewe first reportedon the notoriousea_spouse incident, in which a partner of an Electronic Arts employee wrote a exposing entreaty describing the working conditions his/her partner endured under the employ of the Canadian publisher. it caused a right royal stink, as disgruntled employees from other studios around the world leapt out of the woodwork to complain about their 80+ hour work weeks.Since then, the issue has quietly been hidden under the carpet, and other issues - likeHot Coffee- have come along to steal the limelight. Yet some companies - likeRelentlessin Brighton - continue to be fight the fight in support of their employees, enforcing 9-5 workdays. Additionally, theInternational Game Developers Associationhas set up aQuality of Life working group. But in reality, things seem to have gone quietly back to the way things were.Greg Costikyan, the master of games industryrant, has produced a doozy against Epic Games' Mike Capps, who,claimed that working 60+ hours was expected at Epic, that they purposefully hired people they anticipated would work those kinds of hours, that this had nothing to do with exploitation of talent by management but was instead a part of "corporate culture," and implied that the idea that people would work a mere 40 hours was kind of absurd.It's worth a read for the extraordinary passion he invokes.And if you prefer your social commentary interactive, check outkloonigames' Truth About Game Developmentwhich was, as the blurb says, "inspired byDarius Kazemi's game designchallenge and by thequality of life issues of game industry."
&bull; Games legend Will Wright isparting company with Electronic Arts. The man behind SimCity, the Sims and Spore is going to spend more time with theStupid Fun Club, a side project that EA has said it will invest in.&bull; Facebook isblocking the Pirate Bay's attemptto get people sharing their activity on the notorious website, reports TorrentFreak. The news follows ourrecent reportthat Facebook was investigating the system, which appeared to break the terms and conditions of the200-million-strongsocial network.&bull; Discerning geeks can now have their bottoms caressed in style with thiskey-style stackable "command sit" stool. It's from Japanese label Duende, but will set you back £80 a time. Maybe not time to start stimulating the economy yet.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@jemimakiss,@charlesarthur,@jackschofieldand@bobbiejohnson) or by watching ourDelicious feed, under the usernameguardianista.
Internet Explorer 6 stops running after a while. It says the program has failed running APPCRASH in Iexplorer.exe, which is not very helpful.Steve KileyAppcrash just tells you that some part of IE has crashed. To do a useful search for a solution, you need to know the Fault Module Name. This could be an add-in such as Flash9b.ocx (Adobe Flash) or jvm.dll (Sun's Java) or one of many Microsoft modules (StackHash etc).Still, the Microsoft Knowledge Base has a generic guide to troubleshooting IE problems, and the best place to start is by doing a "reinstall or repair" as explained inarticle 318378. There's also asimpler troubleshooterfor beginners to intermediate users.However, IE6 was released in 2001, and while it was good in its day, support will diminish as it finally goes out of use. It would be much better to upgrade to IE8, which is faster, more stable, has more features, and is far more secure. The "drawback" with IE8 is that it runs each tab in a different process (like Google Chrome) instead of running the whole thing in a single process (like IE6, IE7 and Firefox). This is an advantage if your PC has 1GB or more memory. If you have less memory, opening many sites at the same time will use it all up. In that case, you should either add more memory – it's cheap – or switch to Firefox 3. Firefox uses much less memory than either IE7 or IE8.Note that you should still update Internet Explorer even if you don't use it, because IE's various components are used by different Windows programs. This includes the Help system, and the IE Tab add-on for Firefox.
I'm from the Netherlands. I have the Platte problem, too.BertI'm not aware of any regional issues, but the best coverage of Micro Bill Systems and Platte International software has been provided by Michael Pollitt's articles in Guardian Technology. A recent feature,Platte exits, leaving questions, said that Prevx Edge and Symantec products will detect and remove both, while Trend Micro's HouseCall, a free online scanner, will remove Platte.
A PC engineer said that while AVG had been a very good free anti-virus program, he was now seeing PCs on which AVG was correctly installed, used and updated, but which had, nonetheless, been infected by viruses. He recommended that I switch to Avast! instead.Jo LynchAVG has become popular over the past few years, and virus writers will often try to disable or evade widely used programs. That's why it's a good idea to run secondary checks either online or by using an alternative program from time to time.Fortunately there are at least three good free programs:AVG,Avast!, andAvira AntiVir. (Comodo is another option, but I have not tried it.) Nowadays, some antivirus programs insist on being the only one installed. If so, turn it off and run Kaspersky's free standaloneVirus Removal Toolas a double-check. This is more comprehensive than Microsoft's Malicious Software Removal Tool.
Can you please recommend software that is simple to use on Windows Vista? We want to manage our pensions, savings and investments and keep all the information on our PC.Julian TaylorMicrosoft Money has been a common choice, partly because it is bundled with the huge Microsoft Works Suite (Encarta, AutoRoute etc), which can be shipped with new PCs for a very low price. It can handle investments and has the support of some banks, but Microsoft no longer seems to be interested in it. There has not been a new version since Money 2006 was released in 2005, in spite of acampaign by PC Pro magazine.The paid-for alternatives includePersonal Accountz, which costs £39 but offers free lifetime support, andMoneyBox, which costs €30 a year. Both have spreadsheet-style user interfaces. The sharewareiCashlooks simpler and it might be worth checking a trial download. Some people also use US ­versions of Quicken.Before you decide, find out if your bank supports any particular software, or if it makes data available in a format such as the Microsoft-backed OFX (Open Financial eXchange). If you choose software that can import data, you won't have to type it in.
I cannot get my HP LaserJet 6P printer to work with the iMac I bought recently. I used it successfully with my PC running Windows XP.Ron MetcalfeMac OS X includes PPDs (PostScript Printer Descriptions) for a lot of PostScript printers, andApple's support article TA20583mentions the HP LaserJet 6P/MP.Driversdown offers anHP LaserJet 6p/mp Printer Software and Utility for Mac OS Xand if that doesn't do the job, the GIMP-print driver – now calledGutenPrint– should work. But it's worth skimming aGoogle searchbefore you try this.
When faced with "computer says no" moments in shops and banks, Jan Stuart is occasionally tempted to leap over the counter and bash the till in frustration. Just like the rest of us. But unlike the rest of us, some thumps from Stuart's fingers could do some good. Why? Because, as a Cobol programmer, she may be able to fix the problem.The "common business-oriented language" that has provided 59-year-old Stuart with a career through to retirement age marks its 50th birthday this year. The day to celebrate is slippery - Cobol didn't just scroll on to a terminal one day and ask the user to hit "Compile" - but 1959 is the year that the language came into being.And Cobol is still in business. According to David Stephenson, the UK manager for the software provider Micro Focus, "some 70% to 80% of UK plc business transactions are still based on Cobol".Stephenson's company is an important player in the provision of tools to manage existing Cobol systems, not to mention building new applications, so an optimistic stance is to be expected. But are companies really relying on a half-century-old invention to handle large chunks of their dealings? Mike Madden, development service manager with the catalogue-shopping firm JD Williams, believes so.Better known for its online stores, such as Simply Be and Fifty Plus, Madden says JD Williams remains highly dependent on Cobol applications. "We have a huge commitment to Cobol," he says. "About 50% of our mainframe systems use it."Why? "Simple - we haven't found anything faster than Cobol for batch-processing," Madden says. "We use other languages, such as Java, for customer-facing websites, but Cobol is for order processing. The code matches business logic, unlike other languages."Matching underwearSo, knicker-buying Simply Be customers are greeted by a pretty-in-pink Java interface, but when the order reaches the backroom, charcoal-grey Cobol code takes over the processing grunt work.Stuart is familiar with this set-up. Many of her organisation's data-processing systems remain reliant on Cobol, she says. "When Windows arrived, our executives all wanted their computers to look that way," says Stuart, "so front ends changed. But behind the scenes, the Cobol systems remain."Stuart asked for her company not to be named, though it is a well-known financial institution. We also contacted the major UK banks, but none would talk publicly about what technology drives their backrooms, with most citing security concerns.However, while Cobol is evidently still at large in business, a term used repeatedly to describe such systems is "legacy"."Legacy code supports our business model," says Madden. "We have around 2,500 programs running in Cobol and 60 of the 100 staff in our department are focused on legacy systems."Mike Gilpin, from the market research company Forrester, says that the company's most recent related survey found that 32% of enterprises say they still use Cobol for development or maintenance. But it's worth pointing out that in the same survey, in which multiple answers were permitted and no breakdown of "development" and "maintenance" was specified, Microsoft Visual Basic, .Net and Java top the languages-used charts, at 65% apiece.A lot of this maintenance and development takes place on IBM products. The company's software group director of product delivery and strategy, Charles Chu, says that he doesn't think "legacy" is pejorative. "Business constantly evolves," he adds, "but there are 250bn lines of Cobol code working well worldwide. Why would companies replace systems that are working well?"The impression is that Cobol is to business what the internal-combustion engine is to motoring: it's been around for so long, and is installed in so many places, with so much supporting infrastructure, that doing something different - even if the end result could be better - would be impossibly costly.Obviously, Cobol hasn't stood still for 50 years. Older Cobol systems have been updated to integrate with today's modish object-oriented programming languages. Barely a year ago, for instance, IBM updated its Enterprise Cobol to version 4.1, and further revisions are on the way.Is there a new generation of programmers ready to grab the Cobol cudgels? Michael Coughlan, a lecturer at the University of Limerick, thinks so. The institution's computer science student intake tailed off 10 years ago. The course evolved and Coughlan says that around half his fourth-year students now take the elective modules where Cobol is used.Bugs mean businessOf course, a decade ago, folks got worked up about something called the millennium bug. The debate over how serious was the threat that seemed to detonate with a "phut" has been played out, but Cobol code was high on the offender list, resulting in a mini-boom for Cobol developers. Then it all went quiet, the web entered the ascendant and Cobol got forgotten again. Well, by the outside world at least.Stuart holds that Cobol cobblers remain in demand, and she estimates that those prepared to travel can expect to earn up to &pound;80,000 a year. Moreover, despite imminent retirement, Stuart isn't about to issue the End-Perform command on her work just yet: "I'll continue doing bits and pieces. Cobol is just a great language for business and it isn't going away."And business, it appears, agrees.Begin: drinking 99 bottlesAccording to Michael Coughlan, a lecturer at the University of Limerick, one of Cobol's perceived drawbacks is its verbosity. But he reckons that's also one of its strengths. "It's not just a write-only language," he says. "You can come back years later and understand the code."This opinion is shared by Mike Gilpin, of Forrester, who is an ex-Cobol programmer. "Cobol is one of the few languages written in the last 50 years that's readable and understandable," he says. And he's scathing about the readability of more fashionable languages, such as PHP and Java: "Modern programming languages are ridiculously hard to understand."True? Well, judge for yourself at the99 Bottles Of Beer project website. What began in 1994 as a geek joke to save bandwidth by turning the song lyrics into six lines of code in the Basic language has grown to versions of the program in 1,259 (and counting) different programming languages. Don't miss the Lolcode version!
In five years' time there will be no such thing as a multiplayer mode. That isn't a prophecy of startling revisionism: we're not all going to go back to playing alone. It's just that games will stop making any kind of distinction between the "main" single-player mode, and the cordoned-off multiplayer options. It was never really a satisfactory arrangement - as soon as you annex an option you reduce the potential audience, and many gamers are wary of the multiplayer tag as they envisage a deathmatch nightmare zone filled with savage strangers. It doesn't have to be that way.A few excellent titles are already pointing us in the right direction. Open-world driving games such as Test Drive Unlimited and Burnout Paradise let you enter an online race whenever you feel like it from the confines of the singleplayer world. And GTA IV gives you easy access to all the online stuff via the main game's virtual mobile phone. Ubisoft's Shaun White Snowboarding mixes things up even more - here, you can complete single-player objectives within an online environment populated by other players.Another spin on this idea of seamless integration is drop-in co-op, where friends are able to turn up in someone else's game and start playing beside them. Gears of War 2, for example, will let a novice plop themselves into a campaign with a pal who's playing on the hardest difficulty: the game simply tweaks the new guy's damage and weapon accuracy stats so they can make a useful impact on the action. Similarly, in the forthcoming action RPG Sacred 2, you'll be able to nip out of your single-player quest, go online, help a mate through a tricky battle, then whiz back into your own game. Later this year, Aliens: Colonial Marines will feature four-player drop-in, drop-out co-op, which means groups of friends can nip in and out without having to commit to a whole evening of alien-blasting.Released this week, EA's The Godfather II tie-in takes an extremely interesting angle. Here, in-game money that you earn in the multiplayer mode is transferred into the single-player quest, where it can be used to buy new weapons and thugs-for-hire. Also, you can take your AI-controlled "family members" out of the single-player experience and use them in online battles, thereby improving their stats. When you drop them back into the "main" game, they're much more powerful allies.What the Wii has taught us is that, to garner true mainstream acceptance, the machinery of game design must be as invisible as possible. The whole concept of "game modes" - the provision of options even before you start playing - is anathema to most people. It's like having to decide the sort of programme you want to watch before switching on the TV. It's just not human nature.
Reading maketh a full man, said Francis Bacon. But he hadn't tried it on a mobile. I have done a lot of digital reading, including an entire novel on a laptop - an excruciating experience that could put you off books for life. I have read parts of books on e-readers (Sony, Kindle etc), which shattered my prejudices about the unique nature of the book - proving that it is not books that count, but the content. I have read parts of books on mobiles - including the iCue, which hurls words at you one by one - but never a book all through.Until last week, when I forced myself to read our book club's choice (Cormac McCarthy's The Road) on an iPod Touch. Finding a copy wasn't easy among numerous iPhone/Touch applications that can download books from the internet. Google's wonderful book search, with more than half a million titles (mainly free and out of copyright) didn't stock it and the highly popular Stanza kept refusing me entry. I bought it from Barnes &amp; Noble at $9.95 (&pound;6.80) - pricier than as a proper book from Amazon for $7.99.I opted for 21 lines to a page - which can be changed to suit your eyes - giving about seven words on each line. It was a drag not being able to skim across pages as you can with a "real" book, but - dare I say it - in key ways it was a much more efficient way of reading. You can hold it with one hand, using a thumb to turn pages while using the other to drink coffee, eat, or write notes. You can read on a train, an escalator, in fading light - even in a bus queue. You can check words in its dictionary or make notes and it remembers where you last finished. Reading is time-shifted from when you happen to have a book to when you happen to want to read, as it can hold hundreds of titles. When Google has scanned the world's books - all accessible from a mobile - why would research students need a library? They could work from a cafe, reading with one hand and taking notes with the other.It even proved comfortable reading in bed. You don't need to light up the whole room just for the small area of a book. The backlit screen does that for you and at night you can reduce brightness, thereby cutting your carbon footprint further. But the backlit screen is also the bane. Apart from using up power, a background light makes reading less appealing than a real book or the new ebooks that use static "e-ink", which mimic the actual experience of reading type on paper, using up energy only when a page is turned.Will they make serious inroads on books? Of course they will. They will never replace them any more then television dislodged radio, but the sheer convenience, such as not having to pack books on holiday, will for many outweigh the undisputed pleasures of books: the feel, seeing them on shelves, lending to friends - you would have to lend the device as well - and scrawling comments in the margin. The jury is out on which device might take over. If it is to combine the functions of books, newspapers, web browsing and telephoning, it will be bigger than an iPhone screen, with the e-ink of electronic readers and the ruggedness of a Plastic Logic device (not yet on the market) that can be dropped without mishap.One thing the mobile reading industry will probably avoid is the free downloads controversy that has dogged the music industry. Music moved from being a communal experience to a solitary one, whereas books have always been more solitary. Mobiles, unlike the web, come with a built-in payments system and most of the back catalogue, unlike music, is out of copyright. As Stephen King has pointed out, what helped destroy CDs - being able to download a single track rather than the whole album - doesn't apply to reading. Books will have a different problem. Practically every book ever written will be contained in a digital Library of Alexandria. But Google, which is doing the scanning, will hold the key.victorkeegan.com
Candyfloss is not normally seen in research laboratories. For Riyi Shi, associate professor of biomedical engineering at Purdue University, Indiana, it may soon help heal nerve injuries. Shi has used the fine sugar filaments, known as cotton candy in the US, to construct a scaffold of hollow polymer tubes to support natural nerve regrowth.Sugar, explains Shi, is used to create pores or voids in scaffolds to support new tissue growth. But for nerve scaffolds, you need very tiny tubes: "One day, Jianming Li, my graduate student, came up with the idea of using cotton candy. He noted that if we could coat the fibres with a water insoluble polymer, we could obtain tubes once the sugar dissolved."They heated sugar (sucrose) so it caramelised, then drew out sugar fibres. These were thinly coated in poly L-lactic acid (PLLA), a biomedical compatible polymer, and then the sugar core was dissolved.A nerve cell consists of a cell body and a projection called an axon that carries the nerve signal. Thousands of such axons are bundled together to form peripheral nerves. Shi and Li's artificial polymer tubules have a diameter of around 50 microns - about half the width of a human hair. Their bonus discovery? Tiny pores ideal for supplying nutrients to growing nerve cells and removing waste products.This is a first step towards regenerating nerve axons to prevent atrophy of muscles and organs. For conventional repair, surgeons take nerve grafts, even though this means losing skin sensation."We would actually slip our hollow fibre bundles into a biocompatible sleeve and implant this hybrid construct. The sleeve would provide stability and give surgeons something to suture," says Shi. "PLLA is biodegradable and after six to 12 months the PLLA would be resorbed and replaced by host tissue."The professor of neuroscience John Priestley works in the Neuroscience Centre at Barts and the London School of Medicine and Dentistry. He's also involved in developing a nerve scaffold (Neurotex) made from natural silk fibres in a silk conduit."For about 20 years, people have being trying to produce synthetic tubes that can be used to bridge gaps in nerves and replace the need for using an autologous graft," says Priestley. "The Purdue scaffold looks a very interesting approach - it's certainly an advance - but until it's been tested in vivo, it's difficult to comment further."Whether you call it cotton candy or candyfloss, the popular fairground treat may soon prove a sweet bioengineering solution.
Over the past decade, there has been one undoubted beneficiary of the government's splurge on big IT: the Conservative party. For opposition politicians, IT policy has been like the rich uncle of childhood dreams. Even when public IT projects are going well they deliver political gifts as symbols of misdirected extravagance, cronyism, or threats to civil liberties. When projects are going badly ... well, just listen to the Today programme on the morning of publication of any public accounts committee report.These gifts are likely to be deployed in the Conservatives' first potentially election-winning manifesto in a generation. We have already been promised measures to cancel the ID card, and the government this week handed the opposition another treat by placing the largest chunk of the business with US-based firms. The legally compromised national DNA database would also be scrapped.If the government doesn't get there first, the Tories have promised a close look at the NHS's "hubristic supercomputer", a reference to the NHS National Programme for IT in England. This too will be popular - though it could be awkward if the review concludes the problem is that the programme has spent too little, rather than too much, money.Another idea doing the rounds is to find &pound;600m a year in painless savings by buying IT more intelligently, including using more open source software. Earlier this year, George Osborne, the shadow chancellor, published a study by Mark Thompson, a Cambridge University IT lecturer. It recommended that large-scale IT projects be split into small modular components, meaning that the UK government should never again need to sign an IT software contract worth more than &pound;100m. "No more IT 'white elephants'," Osborne said.Another idea for the Tories' manifesto is a drastic cut in spending on government websites. Regular readers will recall this is already government policy, under its adviser Sir David Varney's heroic plan to cut the number of these from several hundred down to three. The trouble is, while spending on the three "supersites" - Directgov, Business Link and NHS Choices - has soared, there's not much evidence that web spending by individual bodies has fallen. The temptation will be to cut back drastically the ambitions of at least two of the supersites, relying on bottom-up "web 2.0" initiatives to fill gaps in services.Of course, whether a government can base an entire IT strategy on Free Stuff Off the Web remains to be seen. The Obama administration had similar ideas, but has run into obstacles ranging from disability access rules to legal requirements to produce paper hard copies of official publications. Government IT systems are gold-plated not just because contractors want to make an extra buck, but because the officials who specify them have to cater for eventualities that the Free Stuff Off the Web merchants can simply ignore.That said, a glance at many of the proprietary systems in public services suggests plenty of opportunities for savings. One is a ban on any new IT investment until the organisation wanting it can demonstrate it already makes full use of existing systems, including all appropriate free software. Another possibility is a new stage to the government's Gateway review process, which examines projects at key decision points - a "double red" would immediately halt any troubled project or programme unless overtly overruled by ministers.Though if the Tories did come up with these ideas, there would be nothing to stop the government implementing them first. Rich uncles get gifts, too.
Mobile trackingThis was a fascinating article (The end of privacy?, 2 April) and I note that Google continues to make a habit of giving things with invisible strings attached. The most amusing comment came from the representative of 3 who said: "We wouldn't do this without consulting our customers." This is the company that has introduced a restrictive proxy filter on their mobile web access without any prior consultation or notice. When I challenged this, their reply was: "This is not a change to your terms and conditions." Draw your own conclusions.Richard AvisIpswich• Basically, Google et al are tempting you to run location-sensitive applications – so that they (and whoever is tapping in to your account) and all the world's advertisers know where you are for the rest of your life.plashingvole.blogspot.com• Any Orwell fans out there?twitter.com/mills_jeff• Took the Guardian a while to pick up on this didn't it?twitter.com/sanjmatharu• Not bothered by Street View, but find this worrying.twitter.com/ellenwest• Is Google buying Twitter? I hope not, having read this.twitter.com/londoncharlotteKeeping an eye on GoogleInterestingly, Street View's number plate blurring technique DOESN'T work with old number plates on classic ­vehicles (Read me first, 2 April).Kathleen MenziesGlasgow• Isn't it more that good uses outweigh bad uses, as with any tool?twitter.com/cybergibbonsA bit too much?23 URLs in a 628-word print article (Read me first, 2 April) was too many, even if they were of the shortened "bit.ly" variety. There were five in one sentence, rendering it almost unreadable. The online version was better, with linked text rather than URLs, but even so the cross-referencing was distracting.Bob RotheramWoodthorpeGone tomorrow?Clear problem with preservation in the cloud (Newly asked questions, 2 April)twitter.com/mopennockKer-ching, Kachingle?Nice idea, not sure about the name though (Cashing in on content, 2&nbsp;April).twitter.com/louispattison• [I] think this is a very clever micropayments scheme that might actually work (but I've been wrong in the past).twitter.com/fjordaanKingdon of the Second LifeThere is still a bit of passive curiousity about what goes on at Linden Lab (Second chance at Life, 2 April). Since the openspace rip-off, LL has locked down all information about anything that would expose the impact of this mess. No real statistics about the "land mass" or new user retention are shared. We can only guess that it is because there is no good news to share – so LL seems best to just shut-up.So, the noise is the same from Kingdon. What continues to dismay me is how the "press" sucks up the puff and just tosses it back out. The Guardian aspires to more than just recycling press releases – but once again in the case of the virtual world delivers whatever the technocrats put forward without challenge.rezzable.com/blog• Sad, he takes credit for tech improvements started before he got theretwitter.com/bilbe/status/1440274419• I wonder if Second Life is suffering due to the RL/RT possibilities of social media? Who needs 3D environs anyway?twitter.com/rob_jewittIndymedia serversAnother step closer to a police state: get arrested for having a web server.twitter.com/putterill/status/1441249687• Oh, I see. Now you can be arrested for things you don't do.twitter.com/Serrio/status/1437461747YouTube's musicDedicated music videos player for YouTube – useless in the UK, of course (Teenager invents YouTube music player, 2 April).twitter.com/MichaelHales'Deadly' Conficker?It seems that the Guardian doesn't quite "get" technology. I came to the site to explore whether the Guardian itself posted anything about its pleas to have the government look at Google News. It seemed to me that the Guardian doesn't quite get it: that services like Google News can only serve to help people who have never heard of the Guardian find it, and direct them to the Guardian website. As far as I can tell, Google isn't posting entire articles from any news site in their search results, but simply showing search users what's out there. If The Guardian can't make a profit from the people that actually go to its website either through a Google search or because they are loyal Guardian readers, that strikes me as a problem with the Guardian – not with Google.Then I saw the headline for the article about Conficker: "deadly, or April fool?" While the Conficker worm may be one of the most serious internet threats in recent years, please, tell me how it is "deadly" to anyone?Kent Christopher,via email• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk
This spring sees Sony Online Entertainment (SOE) enter the tween and teen market with the virtual world Free Realms. The brainchild of the company's president, John Smedley, it's free-to-play via a streaming browser offering a wide variety of mini-game experiences, which in SOE's words pay homage to popular games such as Bejeweled and Mario Kart.Although said to appeal to anyone from eight to 80, the core target audience is 10- to 14-year-olds. It replaces the classic massively multiplayer online game (MMO) class system with "jobs", each related to themes within the mini-games. As a ninja, compete in combat games, or don your apron and rise to Cooking Mama-style challenges. The key is that gamers can become who they want whenever they want, under the umbrella of one avatar.SOE says Free Realms is unique, yet it clearly shares many features with its free-to-play competitors. Aspects of established titles such as Club Penguin, MapleStory and RuneScape abound, so following their lead could be the route to success in an already crowded market.Of course, the key to survival has to be getting gamers to pay, but with a young, school-attending core audience and a free-to-play model, how can they generate an income stream? According to Smedley, it's easier than you may think.Pocket money pickings"To the outside observer it appears a tough place to get money from, but it's actually the opposite. We've built a game that has a lot of value for free players, but we've put in a lot of hooks," he says.Free-to-play titles have a number of money-making tools. Many offer tiered membership, giving subscribers additional content. A few use banner advertising. Others offer "microtransactions" that focus on character customisation.As Sung Jin Kim, the Europe business team manager of Nexon, which publishes MapleStory, says: "An in-game avatar represents an 'ideal portrait of myself' in the cyberworld. Teens and tweens are very active in expressing their own individuality and don't hesitate to spend money on expressing it well."Free Realms's revenue streams focus on this appeal. It offers a plethora of customisation purchases ranging from pence to pounds, including clothes, pets and racing-car parts. It's also fine-tuning a low-cost UK subscription price.But how do you get the cash from the kids, and how can parents control their spending? SOE uses currency called Station Cash for in-game purchasing, which parents can top up when they choose. They decide how much "pocket money" is given, and the children choose how and when they spend it. SOE has also focused on physical purchases. If parents don't approve of virtual allowances, children can spend their money on cards that equate to Station Cash or virtual items. Sony's keen to get their money, though: in Europe it's adding SMS billing, bank transfers and PayPal.Although competitors don't feel threatened by the launch of Free Realms, some are concerned that titles of its ilk will create misconceptions about the genre."A lot of the free offerings are sadly misleading because they're not. Most of them rely on the microtransaction system, which is really a stealth tax; I prefer to call it death by a thousand cuts," says Mark Gerhard, the chief executive of RuneScape's creator, Jagex. His titles solely use advertising and membership revenue streams; there are no in-game transactions."It's the psychology of it. You can better monetise a person taking 20 cents off them for every item, than to ask someone for $10 up front. Commercially you can say it's a great opportunity, the way of the future. Ethically you can say it devalues the product."SOE's competitors don't seem concerned that Free Realms could take a slice of their pie, but there can't be unlimited amounts of money for the taking. Surely someone has to lose for Sony to win? Titles such as Club Penguin and sites such asPogo.commay temporarily lose players, but by having loyal, entrenched audiences, they're expected to return.Expanding worldsHowever, many wonder how much success Free Realms will find. "The game seems confused: it's inspired by RuneScape but targeting Club Penguin," says Gerhard. "My expectation is it'll be a damp squib."Smedley, however, feels strongly that Free Realms will cement its position as a market force before the sector becomes overwhelmed. Although he cites industry stats of 17% average annual worldwide growth for free-to-play titles, even he believes it may hit saturation in the next few years.No market expands for ever, but for now, at least, free-to-play gaming is mirroring the ongoing success of the games industry overall. If anything, with more people currently focusing on value for money, the genre's appeal is likely to grow."When you think of the cost of a cup of coffee or of renting a movie, you're looking at a short period of enjoyment for the same cost of something like Club Penguin, where you can get a month of entertainment," notes Lane Merrifield, one of the game's founders and executive vice president of the Disney Interactive Media Group.As Gerhard puts it, nothing beats the recession like a free game. Sure, you can spend cash, but how and when you choose. "It's been shown over many recessions that the gaming industry weathers them well," says Smedley. "Given the fact there's so many ways to pay and play the game, we feel this is good value at a time when the economy is as bad as it is."
For a few years now, the television industry has been talking about "convergence" between the internet and television. It's slowly becoming a reality: more and more people are connecting their computers to their TVs to view photos, listen to music and other activities that cross over between the two; now television manufacturers are starting to add functions to their TV sets that will allow people to share photos through social networks, play online games, watch YouTube and other material found on the internet. YouTube is a barometer of this shift, as people move on from watching short clips or videos to looking at longer works and whole programmes, and the BBC's iPlayer, plus the versions from ITV and Channel 4, also make full-length programming available on computers.Now, people are starting to want to create on-demand TV via the net on their own television set.There's no consensus yet whether this should be done through the DVD player, a games console or by building it into the TV itself, but as a generation grows up not minding whether content is delivered via TV, computer or phone, the line between the internet and television is about to blur.Manufacturers including Toshiba, Panasonic and Sony are releasing TVs and DVD players with internet-compatible "widgets" built in. Once these devices are connected to an Ethernet network (they aren't all Wi-Fi compatible) they offer a selection of services that are likely to include social networking, picture-sharing and other internet feeds.Sony's AppliCast service is available now, with its V5500 sets, and will be included with its Bravia TVs later this month. Panasonic's service, Viera Cast, will be launched at the end of next month with one of its LCD TV ranges. The devices' remote controls will come with a "Viera Cast" button and as long as it is connected to a network, pressing this button will open up feeds from Google's Picasa picture service and internet content from Eurosport, YouTube and others.Later in the year, Toshiba plans to release its Net Player, a souped-up DVD player that also offers net TV, which it has developed in conjunction with Intel. Fiona Patterson, the DVD product manager for Toshiba, confirms that the Net Player will not only be a fully functioning, upscaling DVD player, but will work as a Windows Media Centre extender, so people with music and video on their PCs will be able to play their content through the TV.Home deliveryCompanies have been promising internet protocol television for a number of years, and many prototypes have been demonstrated at UK trade shows. Ben Tudor, a senior analyst in consumer broadband services at Current Analysis, points out that several countries in mainland Europe are ahead of us. "Some of the operators, such as T-Home in Germany, are delivering internet to televisions right now," he says. This has been made to work the other way as well, with companies such as Deutsche Telekom able to deliver television to mobile phones.It is also true that companies already selling in the UK, such as Apple and Archos, are getting TV programmes on to hardware other than a traditional television set. Tudor believes each faction has its own advantages, although Apple TV has yet to become the iPod of the video medium: "It's a little outside people's comfort zones in terms of getting it to work, so it's not had a fantastic uptake," he says. "Put all of this into a television set, however, and it's extra stuff in your telly that just works - and stuff that just works gets used."That said, plenty of people have bought PVRs - hard disk recorders - to sit under the set, and are happy to use them, because they provide utility."The TV manufacturers will have an advantage when these services start to emerge in numbers, he suspects, because there's no plugging in of external boxes. However, he also notes that game consoles are already under a lot of television sets, so consumers wouldn't have to buy an additional box anyway, pointing to the BBC's iPlayer on the Wii as a successful example of this.One major challenge facing all of the companies wanting a part of this market is making moving pictures from sources such as YouTube acceptable on a widescreen television. They look fine on a smaller screen or a PC, where expectations are lower, but in a larger format they start to look very blocky.It is in this area that Toshiba in particular has been doing a lot of development. At its annual product launch a couple of weeks ago, the company demonstrated its "upscaling" technology that made a video from an iPod look like a standard definition picture. The company's UK managing director, Andy Bass, confirmed that he had seen prototype technology in Japan that would upgrade even the grainiest of YouTube pictures to an acceptable standard.Family viewingThis is going to help improve the experience of anyone watching internet content through one of the new devices. Toshiba has yet to finalise which partners it will work with when it launches the Net Player, but it demonstrated it with Joost, Flickr and others, most of which aren't designed with a 42in television in mind. Patterson explained that each family member will be able to set up their own profile and download their own widgets. "There will also be parental control," she said. Unlike TVs from other manufacturers, this box will have Wi-Fi built in and will come in under &pound;200.However, Tudor doesn't think getting internet widgets on to television is going to be massive in the short term. "It's not going to be a deal maker or a deal breaker," he says. "Getting Picasa pictures on to your television is going to be a nice-to-have rather than a must-have." He believes it will end up like Teletext in its heyday: initially bewildering to the majority but eventually taken for granted.Decoding the technologyBroadcasting has, until now, used its own technologies for getting pictures to your TV screen and synchronising them with the sound.The arrival of computing technology in the market means TV manufacturers have to figure out how to get computerised pictures on to the screen, in a process that is more akin to making a DVD player present its pictures than decoding a stream of normal broadcast video.Getting the internet stream off the phone wire and on to your TV is achieved by means of a "codec", a word that comes from "COde/DECode", and the key standard is MPEG-4, a collection of standard codecs introduced in 1998 that are still evolving.A number of its codecs are common in the computer world already: MP4 video (officially, MPEG-4 part 14) appears on many multimedia devices, including computers themselves, and is particularly popular among PC-compatible computer manufacturers. Microsoft has its own Windows Media Video (.wmv) format, while Apple uses Quicktime as well as MP4 in the various flavours of iPod that play video.The new "internet TV" devices will be able to play most of the standard codecs. Toshiba's iTV in particular will play content from any Windows Media Player on any computer it finds through Wi-Fi.The quality of the picture will depend a great deal on the quality of the source material, and just how skilled manufacturers can become in upscaling, a technology usually used to take MPEG-2 video from a standard DVD and digitally enhance it so it looks more like a high definition (MPEG-4) output.
BakerTweet keeps bakers sweetThe Albion Cafe in London is the first with BakerTweet hardware that can post updates to Twitter about what's hot out of the oven.Google highlights localGoogle is now showing local search results on a map even when users have not provided their location - though you may be invited to provide one.Videophone homeAsus is introducing a standalone PC/free Skype-certified videophone with a 7in screen for about &pound;220.Radio starsOnline voting has started for the second annual Sony DAB Rising Star radio awards.Blunkett on cybersecurityDavid Blunkett MP will give the opening keynote speech for Infosecurity Europe 2009 at Earls Court One, London, 28-30 April.Mobile offers instant videoSony Ericsson is pitching its new S312 phone as a way to "capture life's spontaneous moments".FriendFeed liveFriendFeed is running a public beta test of new software that provides live updates.Graphene could go fasterMIT researchers are using one-atom-thick pure carbon to make chips that could run at 500GHz or more.
The jury's still out – but probably not. While the video sharing website is so phenomenally popular that it is claimed to be the second biggest search engine in the world, there's still precious little information on whether the money is rolling in. But there's plenty to suggest it is rolling out of the door.While parent company Google has to divulge certain financial details thanks to its publicly traded status, it remains highly secretive about the numbers produced by its individual business units. That's where Spencer Wang, an analyst with Credit Suisse, steps in. By Wang's estimates, the video site is due to lose $470m this year – an incredible amount for a website that Google bought for $1.65bn just two and a half years ago.The problem as he sees it? An inability to sell advertising on 97% of its pages that could carry ads, coupled with a huge number of users watching a vast amount of video, which is expensive to serve. Even with $16bn in the bank, Google won't want to bear that too long.For once, the advertising weakness isn't likely to have anything to do with the recession – it's just that user-generated content isn't very appealing to advertisers. Oh, and there are some high-profile problems over allegations of copyright infringement and royalty payments too. Google pulled music videos from YouTube in the UK, complaining it would cost more to show each video than it got in payment – suggesting it was getting less from the ads than the 0.05p to 0.22p per track that the Performing Rights Society charges. Artists such as Billy Bragg and Dave Rowntree aren't impressed: "[Google's] menacing attitude towards paying UK artists for content is a test case that will have ramifications around the world," theysaid.And the price of not being able to advertise? When you are pushing out millions of video streams every day, the incremental cost of each user is high – meaning that popularity can be a curse, rather than a blessing.Not that YouTube is alone. Even the much-vaunted Hulu.com, a video site set up by two of America's big networks, is struggling to turn its popularity into hard cash. Despite quickly rising to become the fourth-biggest video site in the US, its professional-quality, totally legal shows still struggle to bring in the big ads. Instead of watching classy car ads, for example, viewers turning to Hulu for their fix of 30 Rock or The Office are hit by a stream of public service announcements and charity ads. It's such a problem, in fact, that Hulu has come into conflict with startups like Boxee which encourage people to ditch their old TVs completely.How to fix things? Perhaps video sites will increasingly look towards broad sponsorships, sweetheart deals and product placement – or try to persuade people to advertise their wares against that video of a dancing monkey with a wonky eye.
As of 31 March, only 73 of the 472 local councils in the UK has an RSS feed of their news pages' content. And Adrian Short thinks that's not enough. By Christmas, he wants every single one of them to offer at least one – so that professional web developers such as himself can create new and useful services for citizens.Short classes his campaign, which he calls "Mash the State", under the umbrella of the Free Our Data campaign (though Short devised it himself): both have the aim of making non-personal data whose collection is publicly funded available for free, to all. But Short's has a pleasingly practical, achievable target.The drive behind it began with his own local council, the London borough of Sutton. Short wants to know more about what's happening in his neighbourhood – which actually lies on the borders of two London boroughs. But when he looked on the relevant council websites, he found thatSutton councilhad no RSS feeds at all.That's useless for building what Short calls the "inside-out" web, where a site provides data that can be fed into another site or mobile system, or parsed with a separate set of data."I want to have a positive attitude about this," Short says. "We live in a very advanced post-industrial country; a lot of this stuff is very cheap to do, enabling an RSS feed on a page, but because there isn't an understanding of its value among people who matter, it doesn't get done. OK, nobody is going to march on the streets because there isn't an RSS feed, yet it's symbolic of the way that websites are built as if they're only for humans."He argues that by making sites accessible to machines too, the data they contain becomes more valuable – and so does the originating site, whose value resides in the data's availability, not the number of people who arrive at its URL. The campaign site,Mash the Stateis still being prepared – its launch has been slightly delayed by the reorganisation on 1 April that saw 44 local councils merged into nine "unitary" ones; Short is checking the new sites for feeds.He points to really useful services built with mash-ups of separate councils' services, such as Fixmystreet.com (which lets you report problems such as potholes, and sends it to the relevant council).And the worst counter-example? "Nottingham city council. It says it wants to be the only site you'll visit. It's outside-in. Insane."Join the debate on the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
In the mid-90s, Silicon Graphics (SGI) was the computer company to watch. Its machines brought T-1000 to life in Terminator 2: Judgment Day. When the teenage Lex Murphy declared: "It's a Unix system, I know this" in Jurassic Park, she was in front of the same kind of SGI machine used to render the dinosaurs for the movie.The company filed for bankruptcy in New York last Wednesday, but SGI was already a distant memory for most film producers. The only suitor for SGI's assets was a relatively unknown maker of blade servers for internet companies. AndRackable Systemsonly had to pay $25m (&pound;17m) for a company worth $7.4bn at the height of its success.The end of SGI began 10 years ago. Customers in digital animation were beginning to buy Windows workstations, but they went for cheaper options than those supplied by the company.Cluster time bombSGI decided to focus on the supercomputer, or high-performance computing, business. But the trend of building compute clusters out of PCs and blade servers has eaten away even at that. Earl Joseph, research vice president at the analyst firm IDC, says more than 65% of high-performance computers are now clusters. Last year, Dell's sales in this market were more than five times higher than SGI's.Specialised hardware is not popular among processing-hungry production houses, according to Simon Robinson, the chief technology officer at the London and LA-based effects developer The Foundry. "The hardware has to be standard because our end market is people who have built up their systems over time," he says. Production houses cannot afford to throw out all their old hardware every time a shiny new high-performance machine comes along. Instead, they gradually add more powerful multiprocessor machines and slowly retire the older ones.Clive Longbottom, service director at the analyst firm Quocirca, says this "scale-up, scale-out" approach has changed the landscape of supercomputing: "When your current environment isn't enough, you don't have to trash it all and start again."Synopsys, which supplies software tools to businesses such as Intel to design their large chips, found it could take servers that it already had and assemble them into a virtual supercomputer that made it into the industry's listing ofthe top 500 fastest computers in the world. The company developed its own management software to "go from bare metal to optimised configuration", according to Sriram Sitaraman, a senior IT manager.Although some supercomputer users turn to suppliers such as HP and IBM to do the job for them, others simply roll their own because so much of the hardware is now standard. Without the money to design much of their own silicon, they have to buy off-the-shelf PC processors and memory. Mark Parsons, commercial director at theEdinburgh Parallel Computing Centre (EPCC), complains: "We are going through this really boring period in computing."Thanks to the arrival of quad-core processors, the aggregate performance of the latest supercomputers and clusters look good on paper. But not as good in practice. The coming upgrade to theHector machinebased at Edinburgh, the UK's national supercomputing service, will see the speed of each individual processor cut by about 15%. "At the same time, the memory bandwidth is only rising from 10GBps to 12GBps," says Parsons.Instead of sharing 10GBps between two processors, the upgrade will see four processors squabbling over access to a 12GBps pipe to memory. "It's a 40% reduction in bandwidth into each core. But the way to keep the core busy is faster memory to push data into it," says Parsons.The alternative to simply packing more multicore PC processors into blade servers is to use specialised accelerator processors. SGI had been drumming up interest in this approach at the MRSC supercomputing conference in Berlin last month. The company aimed to use four different types of accelerator in one machine.Foot on the acceleratorCharles Gillan, principal engineer at theInstitute of Electronics, Communications and Information Technology (ECIT)based at Queen's University, Belfast, says: "SGI was the only company trying to bring the heterogeneous accelerator to market." He points out that chipmakers such as AMD, Intel and Nvidia are combining standard PC cores with accelerator processors tuned for graphics.Last month, the BNP Paribas bank decided to replace a server containing 500 conventional processor cores that consumes 25kW of power with a one-teraflop machine based onNvidia Teslagraphics processors. The bank claims the new machine will improve throughput 15-fold but use less than 10% of the electricity.Steve Wallach, of the former supercomputer maker Convex, has formed a new company,Convey, to make machines that rewire themselves to suit the job at hand. SGI hoped to use this technique to build its heterogeneous accelerator.Rackable is keeping quiet about its plans for SGI: another company could still outbid it. But, if it keeps the accelerator project alive, the company that absorbs SGI may yet take part in the evolution of the next supercomputer.
Troubleshooting IEInternet Explorer 6 stops running after a while. It says the program has failed running APPCRASH in Iexplorer.exe, which is not very helpful.Steve KileyJS:Appcrash just tells you that some part of IE has crashed. To do a useful search for a solution, you need to know the Fault Module Name. This could be an add-in such as Flash9b.ocx (Adobe Flash) or jvm.dll (Sun's Java) or one of many Microsoft modules (StackHash etc).Still, the Microsoft Knowledge Base has a generic guide to troubleshooting IE problems, and the best place to start is by doing a "reinstall or repair" as explained inarticle 318378. There's also asimpler troubleshooter for beginners to intermediate users.However, IE6 was released in 2001, and while it was good in its day, support will diminish as it finally goes out of use. It would be much better to upgrade to IE8, which is faster, more stable, has more features, and is far more secure. The "drawback" with IE8 is that it runs each tab in a different process (like Google Chrome) instead of running the whole thing in a single process (like IE6, IE7 and Firefox). This is an advantage if your PC has 1GB or more memory. If you have less memory, opening many sites at the same time will use it all up. In that case, you should either add more memory – it's cheap – or switch to Firefox 3. Firefox uses much less memory than either IE7 or IE8.Note that you should still update Internet Explorer even if you don't use it, because IE's various components are used by different Windows programs. This includes the Help system, and the IE Tab add-on for Firefox.Platte problemI'm from the Netherlands. I have the Platte problem, too.BertJS:I'm not aware of any regional issues, but the best coverage of Micro Bill Systems and Platte International software has been provided by Michael Pollitt's articles in Guardian Technology. A recent feature, "Platte exits, leaving questions", said that Prevx Edge and Symantec products will detect and remove both, while Trend Micro's HouseCall, a free online scanner, will remove Platte.Alternatives to AVG FreeA PC engineersaid that while AVG had been a very good free anti-virus program, he was now seeing PCs on which AVG was correctly installed, used and updated, but which had, nonetheless, been infected by viruses. He recommended that I switch to Avast! instead.Jo LynchJS:AVG has become popular over the past few years, and virus writers will often try to disable or evade widely used programs. That's why it's a good idea to run secondary checks either online or by using an alternative program from time to time.Fortunately there are at least three good free programs:AVG,Avast!, andAvira AntiVir. (Comodo is another option, but I have not tried it.) Nowadays, some antivirus programs insist on being the only one installed. If so, turn it off and runKaspersky's free standalone Virus Removal Toolas a double-check.Personal financeCan you please recommend software that is simple to use&nbsp;on Windows Vista? We want to manage our pensions, savings and investments and keep all the information on our PC.Julian TaylorJS:Microsoft Money has been a common choice, partly because it is bundled with the huge Microsoft Works Suite (Encarta, AutoRoute etc), which can be shipped with new PCs for a very low price. It can handle investments and has the support of some banks, but Microsoft no longer seems to be interested in it. There has not been a new version since Money 2006 was released in 2005, in spite ofa campaign by PC Pro magazine.The paid-for alternatives includePersonal Accountz, which costs £39 but offers free lifetime support, andMoneyBox, which costs €30 a year. Both have spreadsheet-style user interfaces. Theshareware iCashlooks simpler and it might be worth checking a trial download. Some people also use US ­versions of Quicken.Before you decide, find out if your bank supports any particular software, or if it makes data available in a format such as the Microsoft-backed OFX (Open Financial eXchange). If you choose software that can import data, you won't have to type it in.LaserJet with OS XI cannot get my HP LaserJet 6P printer to work with the iMac I bought recently. I used it successfully with my PC running Windows XP.Ron MetcalfeJS:Mac OS X includes PPDs (PostScript Printer Descriptions) for a lot of PostScript printers, andApple's support article TA20583mentions the HP LaserJet 6P/MP.Driversdown offers anHP LaserJet  6p/mp Printer Software and Utility for Mac OS Xand if that&nbsp;doesn't do the job, the GIMP-print driver – now calledGutenPrint– should work. But it's worthskimming a Google searchbefore you try this.Backchat• Alkesh Patel wanted to get YouTube videos (in FLV Flash format) running on his GoGear MP3 player. On the Ask Jack blog, Artwest suggestedVdownloader, which can download files from many video sites and save them in AVI or MPG format. It can save files that can be played on the iPhone, Sony PSP, Nokia N8x0 and 3GP mobile phones.• On Twitter, Mark Perry asked for Windows-based iPod copier software like Ollie's iPod Extractor 5.1, which I suggested to Svetlana Kirov. I was going to suggestSharePodorYamipod(yamipod.com) – Yet Another iPod Manager – but he found and usedPodLiftfirst.
In a world of 6 billion people, fame means having only one name: Ronaldo, Madonna, Obama, Diana. Second names are used only to differentiate between identical forenames: Mel C and Mel B. I think technology will change all that. Here's why. Everything we do is going up into the cloud, and once it's there, it no longer belongs to us. People don't care now, but they will in a few years' time.One of my favourite programs a few years ago was Evernote, which collected, organised and made searchable all sorts of information, from web clips to PDFs and quickly typed scribblings. Even handwritten notes could be scanned, and so could the text in mobile phone photographs. The only snag was that it was difficult to keep two copies of the program in sync between my laptop and my desktop. When version 3 came out, it promised to make it possible to sync all kinds of devices - not just PCs, but Macs, and soon iPhones as well. But you had to do it through the company's servers, not through your own machines. I wouldn't - and I won't.I don't want to pass all my private thoughts through someone else's computers. The fact that Evernote is such an excellent collector of all sorts of information only increases my reluctance to use it. The more that I put into a program like that, the less I want to share it with the world, anonymously or not.Few people seem to share my sensitivity about this kind of privacy right now. But I think that almost everyone will in a few years' time. I actually quit Facebook, or tried to, and I certainly stopped using it when I realised that the real value of the company was inthe information it may sell to advertisers. That gesture doesn't seem to have started a mass movement, or even any sort of movement. But eventually the business model of apparently free services in exchange for information that can be used to sell stuff will hit limits on the net, just as it has hit them in the world outside.The model is normally understood as an exchange of privacy for money. But I don't think that gets it quite right. The difference is quite simple. My private life can be defined as the things that I know about myself that I don't want to share with the world. But the information that Facebook - or Google, or even Evernote - collect is different because it's not made up of things that we already consciously know about ourselves. It is, in a sense, private even from me.This is fairly obvious in the case of knowledge collection programs such as Evernote: by collecting and concentrating knowledge, they also create it, just as diaries and commonplace books once did. If I already knew and could remember everything that I was interested in, I wouldn't need a program to help me organise and display it.But Facebook, Twitter, Flickr, and, most of all, Google, can know things about me (or, if I'm Jacqui Smith, my husband) that I don't know are there to be known. And, unlike the explicit knowledge-collecting programs, they hold it in ways to which I don't have access. The real information is not what I said or wrote, but who I said or wrote it to, and who they in turn were connected to; how my queries ran on one from another: how I thought. That is tightly locked up within the databases of the big social networking companies. That is what they are selling on.So what can we practically do? A life without Google is hard to imagine. So I predict that, increasingly, people will turn to second identities - forenames, if you like - which are shared only in private among our real friends. We all do this with email already. It's the only thing that makes it manageable. But soon it will be happening with all our online identities.And the more we may be public figures, the more of these pseudo-names we will need. In 20 years' time, the mark of a significant person will be to have nearly as many names at their disposal as Henry Charles Albert David Windsor (Prince Harry to you and me). And, as any journalist who has dealt - however fleetingly - with any celebrity will tell you, we know nearly nothing about their real private selves. Those are concealed in the names the public never knows.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
The Flip MinoHD advertises itself as the world's smallest high-definition camcorder. Its really is a smart piece of simple-to-use technology designed for people who want to grab short colour video clips of things mainly within touching distance they can later upload to the web.And what clips! Developers' claims of "stunning" picture clarity didn't seem far off the mark during the pleasant week I spent playing with the thing. It's even acceptable in low light. Good though captured images are, they almost seem secondary to just how pocket-friendly the MinoHD is. It weighs a mere 3.3oz and is smaller than my mobile phone.The &pound;170 price tag seems reasonable-ish for an HD device - but when you consider the kind of thing you'd shoot, it starts to look a little pricey. The MinoHD isn't what you'd call feature rich, but that's one of its charms. The one-touch recording - via the big red button on the back - made it simple just to fish out of a pocket and record on the hoof.A day's worth of shooting little clips, playing back and deleting didn't seem to place too great a strain on the internal lithium-ion battery, which recharges though the USB when you're hooked up to the computer. The digital display counts down to remind you how much recording time you have left. The 4GB of built-in flash memory means that countdown starts at 60 minutes - more than enough for the kind of things you'll end up shooting.Remember, though, that a heavy-duty video camera it is not. To wit, perhaps the biggest letdown is the quality of the audio. It distorts too easily and picks up all manner of background noise. Other drawbacks also come when you expect too much of it. The 2x digital zoom isn't really worth bothering with. But why zoom? It's better just to get things that are close.The 1.5in LCD screen on the back is just to help you compose your shots and really doesn't give a true reflection of quality. Nor does it have a single-photo function. However, HD stills can be grabbed from video clip in FlipShare, the built-in software. FlipShare also allows users to send video greeting cards, burn to DVDs, quick uploads to YouTube, MySpace (but not Facebook) and easy emailing of clips.What it doesn't do is allow editing more sophisticated than trimming clips and simple titles. Look to the standard built-in video editing packages on your Macs and PCs (both of which the MinoHD is compatible with) if you want to piece together a film and add transitions.All in all, it's a great little plaything for high-quality quick close-up videos, but if you're looking to shoot a low-budget Citizen Kane - forget it.Pros:Quick and easy to use; great picture quality; funCons:Poor audio; no photo function; poor zoom; only in blacktheflip.com
Is it a bird? Is it a giant iPhone?Proof positive from a secret laboratory in Cupertino that Apple is working on an iPhone the size of your living room. Oh, all right, it's Illusion Labs demonstrating iPod games on a multi-touch table.Help us, Multi-Function Copier!You may have to turn the volume up just a tad - actually, quite a lot - but eventually you'll hear that this scanner is playing the Star Wars Imperial March. Where do people find the time?And after that, Flashdance?The bad news: Steve Wozniak has been booted off Dancing With the Stars in the US. Good news: now available for films!• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
At its developer forum in Beijing, Intel has unveiled two more chips in its popular Atom range, which is now just a year old. The Z550 takes the clock speed up to 2GHz with Hyperthreading (HT) support, which compares with the 1.6GHz of the N270 version most commonly used in today's netbooks. Average power consumption is 220mW, with 100mW idle power.The Z515 is an 800MHz-to-1.2GHz chip that delivers "performance on demand" using Intel's Burst Performance Technology (Intel BPT). Average power consumption is 160mW, with 80mW idle power.Atom performance is mediocre in comparison to Core 2 Duo and Core 2 Quad designs. However, the low power requirements can provide long battery life in netbooks, and get Intel into areas of the market previously dominated by devices running ARM-based processors.Anand Chandrasekher, general manager of Intel's Ultra Mobility Group, said Atom chips would support Windows 7 Starter and Basic editions in the second half of this year, as well as XP Home and Vista Basic. He also said Intel's next-generation MID (mobile internet device) platform, codenamed Moorestown, was scheduled to appear "by 2010".Intel says:Moorestown consists of a System on Chip (codenamed "Lincroft") that integrates a 45nm Intel® Atom processor core, graphics, video and memory controller. The MID platform also includes an input/output (I/O) hub, codenamed "Langwell," that includes a range of I/O blocks and supports various wireless solutions.The System on Chip approach should reduce manufacturing costs for netbooks and MIDs, while allowing designers to create smaller systems.A typical MID should have a 4 inch to 7 inch screen and no keyboard, which is the area between smart phones and netbooks. It's an area Microsoft targeted with itsOrigami UMPC(ultramobile PC) project early in 2006. It is an understatement to say this was not a success.
Just a quick one. Ubisoft has releaseda really teasing teaserfor its forthcoming Assassin's Creed sequel. You were supposed to discover it 'virally' through Twitter and Facebook, but I've gone and infected you all in one big data sneeze. It's very coy, and seems to revolve around Leonardo da Vinci drawings  - uh oh, the game's not going all Dan Brown is it? But wait til the clever bit at the end! Hint: you'll need a printer, a web camera and a reasonably bright room. I won't ruin the rest for you.
The stand-off between YouTube and Britain's music societies – which led to the Google-owned sitetaking down music videos for British usersover arguments about royalty payments – is still going strong. But it seems there is plenty of deal-making going on elsewhere.PRS for Music, the group that collects royalties on behalf of music publishers and songwriters, has apparently "agreed commercial terms" with the fast-growing online music service Spotify, according to a report atPaidContent:UK.PRS isn't saying whether or not this is a specially-negotiated deal – or simply an agreement to pay royalties at the standard rate - and I couldn't get any further clarification from Spotify itself.So where does this leave the YouTube ban? Well, asHelienne Lindvall pointed out earlier today, the spat doesn't seem to have really blocked videos from YouTube as promised: there are still plenty of unofficial copies on YouTube that have yet to be taken down.So, but it doesn't seem like a change is coming any time soon.Billy Bragg, who has become one of the voices at the forefront of this argument, toldMusicAllythat it's about trying to negotiate a fair deal for artists."I don't expect kids to pay for watching YouTube. I don't expect that to happen. But there is money to be made there. So the big players need to sit down with groups like PRS, who are traditionally the representatives of songwriters, and work out what's fair."
