These days we're used to grandiose claims being made about the cultural and educational worth of videogames. We know all about hand-eye coordination and organisational skills. We knowgames improve eyesight. But what we possiblydidn'tknow is that videogame narratives should be considered as complex and multilayered as those of our most revered litertary works.This is the claim made by Nottingham Trent University researcher Dr Souvik Mukherjee, who has recently completed a PhD on the subject. According to a press release sent out this morning by the university:He explored how the complex mesh of possible storylines and deep levels of involvement in video game narratives relate to, and often surpass, the experience of earlier narrative media, such as books and films. He also believes that analysing game play can help towards a more complete understanding of the reading experience across all narrative media.There's also an interesting quote from Dr Mukherjee, who states:"I believe it has always been the case that games can be read and books can be played. For example, the1969 novel by John Fowles, The French Lieutenant's Woman, offers multiple endings and therefore prefigures the format of videogames. Many years ago I suggested that Dante's Inferno could be read as a videogame, an idea which was met with disbelief. Now a game based on the Inferno has been released, showing that this is an area which is now ready to be explored further."Hmm, I think it's rather an analytical leap to compare the provision of multiple story endings with a fully interactive experience. It's also a difficult sell in terms of the quality of video game story telling. The examples he provides are Half-Life 2, Bioshock and Assassin's Creed - all credible narrative experiences sure enough, but will we ever be dissecting a videogame plot, or its underlying meaning, with the same voracity that we approach a novel by Dickens, or George Elliot, or Stephen King?This is, of course, a gigantic debate, played out constantly between two schools of videogame theory; the ludologists and the narratologists. I think the key points here are that game narratives can at least be thought of in similar terms as novels, and that they provide a different insight into the whole concept of story-telling. But I won't be holding my breath for the first game to appear on an 'A' Level English Lit syllabus.GSCE is a different matter, though...
Oracle, the software house, says it isbuying Sun Microsystemsfor only $7.4bn (£5bn), which reduces to $5.6bn net of Sun's cash and debt. This is bad news for IBM, which recentlywalked away from a similar $7bn deal. Another billion or so -- less than a week's revenue for Big Blue -- would have sealed a takeover. It could then have quietly tucked Sun's products in a bottom drawer and started moving Sun's huge user based to more profitable IBM systems. Now it faces increased competition from a re-armed Oracle co-founder Larry Ellison, who isn't famous for using kid gloves.In astatement, Ellison said:Oracle will be the only company that can engineer an integrated system - applications to disk - where all the pieces fit and work together so customers do not have to do it themselves. Our customers benefit, as their systems integration costs go down while system performance, reliability and security go up.Obviously Oracle isn't the only company that can do this: it's been a staple of IBM marketing for decades. However, the Oracle database provides major competition for IBM's fleet of databases, and Oracle will also get the MySQL open source database for which Sun paid a crazy $1bn.Oracle getting Sun's Java, to which IBM is heavily committed, might also make IBM feel a bit queasy. IBM might not have wanted it -- almost all of IBM's software is proprietary -- but that doesn't mean it wanted Oracle to have it. Possibly the same goes for Sun's Star Office suite, which Sun controls, though it also exploits the open source programming model via the Open Office version.Oracle getting Sun's Solaris version of Unix is also bad news for IBM because, as the press release says:The Sun Solaris operating system is the leading platform for the Oracle database, Oracle's largest business, and has been for a long time. With the acquisition of Sun, Oracle can optimize the Oracle database for some of the unique, high-end features of Solaris.And now, of course, vice versa….What Oracle will do with Sun's hardware business remains to be seen. The hardware was the reason most commentators didn't seriously consider an Oracle takeover -- well,that's true in my case-- in spite of Sun chairman Scott McNealy and Larry Ellison being old buddies.All round, the deal doesn't sound like bad news for Sun customers: it's better than Sun being bought by IBM, or going bust. However, some could soon find that Oracle's sales droids aren't the sort of pussy cats who'd gravitate towards Sun. Sun boss Jonathan Schwartz has been known asMy Little Pony, but Larry isreputedlysomewhat closer toMing the Merciless.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Successful British entrepreneurs Michael Birch (Bebo) and Brent Hoberman (Lastminute.com) arelaunching an early-stage funding companyaimed at European businesses, reports Techcrunch UK. There's also aSunday Times writeup(disclosure: Brent is a board member of our parent company, GMG)&bull; Barack Obamafinally named his choicefor America's first chief technology officer -Aneesh Chopra, the secretary of technology in Virginia. He's had amixedreceptionfrom Silicon Valley - with a slug of jealousy mixed in with disappointment that the job will be more of afunctional rolethan one with visionary scope.&bull; Ask a designer or typographile who the most hated man on the planet is, and lots of them would say "that bloke who createdComic Sans". The man in question, Vincent Connare, has a chance to reply inintriguing profilein the Wall Street Journal.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Remember Jeeves? He was the fictional valet who  fronted the search engine Ask.com for a decade, until beingunceremoniously axedin 2006.Well, he's back - forBritish usersat least.Jeeves has been resurrected to return to his old job as Ask's mascot after the American-owned company decided to plump for another rebrand. Not a bad, considering most people are worried about losing their jobs, rather than getting new ones.On Ask's website, the character of Jeeves - who is, of course, based on the PG Wodehouse character -explains why he's returnedin a forced-sounding piece of copywriting that brings to mind Dick Van Dyke's turn in Mary Poppins.I popped out three years ago to travel the world in a quest for knowledge, and I've returned to Blighty armed with answers. During my sojourn, research showed the public wanted me back, which I found jolly touching.Barry Schwartz at SearchEngineLandpicked the story up, and asked Ask's European MD Cesar Mascaraque why Britain gets Jeeves back but the United States doesn't. The reply?"The same desire was not found in the US, although Ask admitted they did not run similar polls in the US... Mascaraque also added that Jeeves is more of a British character than a US character."Well, without any comparable numbers that's a claim clearly open to dispute - particularly given that it is Americans who are most likely to identify with the stereotyped image of Britain as a land staffed by Woosterian butlers. But essentially it's shorthand for saying "our brand is being run by focus group".The real question, of course, is whether bringing Jeeves back will make any difference to Ask.com's popularity. It's been constantly tweaking its systems and trying to play up its underdog image - remember theanti-Google campaigna couple of years back? But despite all that, the search engine has consistently failed to make inroads against its competitors - and in recent years Google has battered everyone in sight to 80% market share in the UK.Three years ago, an Ask executivetold methat "the internet has moved on and consumer have moved on... they don't understand the relevance of him any more: it's time to move the brand on too".It's a stark turnaround from that sort of statement to today's rebranding. And despite the attempt to dress it up as bowing to the will of the people, all bringing back Jeeves really does is highlight the company's inconsistency and confusion about its identity. That's not going to help them much.
They're the kind of delicious secrets whispered only by the very closest of pals. "I had a threesome with my cousin and her friend last night." "My uncle told me he used to date my mom. Now I wonder if he is my father." The difference is, these secrets can be read online, in their thousands, via the latest internet craze-within-a-craze,Secret Tweet.It's a cyber-confessional where you can post, anonymously, the most bizarre and devastating secrets, about yourself, your sex life, your drug addiction, your desire for Big Macs - in 134 characters or fewer (even shorter than normal tweets). The secrets range from poignant to hilarious."My wife asks why I am moody. My secret mistress of 20 years just died of cancer. I feel so alone.""I told my estranged dad I loved him - so he'd finance my car.""I work in illustration and I can't really draw. I trace everything."I've done a couple of Secret Tweets; it is oddly therapeutic. You fess up your worst secrets to strangers, and somehow you feel better: cleansed and purged.The inventor of Secret Tweet is Kevin Smith, a 21-year-old graphic designer from Virginia. He started it as a "way for my friends and I to amuse ourselves". Now thousands of people are following, and tweeting. The site takes great pains to preserve anonymity - and censors the truly disturbing remarks. Smith doesn't make any real profit, but says he will continue, "as long as I find personal happiness".These are modest ambitions. Yet Secret Tweet could just be a new kind of therapy for the 21st century. At the very least, it is addictive. As I write, someone has just tweeted this: "As much as I miss dad, I wonder if life isn't better with him dead."
Google has joined the list of companies facing criticism over tax avoidance after public accounts showed it paid only &pound;600,000 in UK corporation tax despite local revenues of more than &pound;1.25bn.A review of Google's British operations suggests the web search engine could have faced taxes of more than &pound;100m in this country, but that it avoided this by channelling revenues through Ireland.Google's activities were condemned as unacceptable by politicians amid promises from the prime minister, Gordon Brown, to crack down on tax evasion in this week's budget.More than 90% of Google's UK revenues are channelled through Ireland, where corporation tax is levied at 12.5% compared with 28% in Britain, according to Richard Murphy, an accountant who investigated Google's British, Irish and American accounts for The Sunday Times.Murphy suggested that Google had avoided a further &euro;135m (now &pound;119m) in tax from Ireland during 2007 while the Irish subsidiary was owned by one of two companies Google has set up in the tax haven of Bermuda.The records suggest several sets of Google's UK accounts were filed late, with one set of accounts outstanding by more than five months."Google seems to be one of a number of companies that are based here, have UK employees and use local services and infrastructure but try to pay their taxes elsewhere when they think they can get away with paying less tax. The government needs to be much firmer in stopping it," said Vince Cable, the deputy leader of the Liberal Democrats."The reality is, the more tax that companies like Google avoid, the more the tax burden falls on the rest of the public. It is clear that while Labour and the Tories have been embracing Google as the paragon of a 21st-century company, it has been running away from the taxman," he added.The US-based internet company said it could not respond to the attacks by British politicians "at this time" nor comment on individual financial figures, but it insisted it had always acted appropriately."Google complies fully with the tax requirements in all the countries in which we operate. In the UK and elsewhere we make a very substantial contribution to local and national taxation. In addition, we provide employment for hundreds of people in the UK and many more across Europe," said a company spokesman.Google has previously been praised as a model of innovation by politicians on both sides of the Atlantic. In a speech at a Google conference last year, Brown said: "Can I begin by congratulating Google, 10 years ago a research organisation, now a $180bn company, an expert in social innovation ... making great strides in putting services to the people of this country."Brown has recently led a crusade against tax havens, saying they should be more transparent in future. Tax evaders who deprive the exchequer of more than &pound;25,000 are to be named and shamed in a crackdown to be unveiled by Alistair Darling in the budget on Wednesday.
Vauxhall Insignia£17.615Miles per gallon:48.7CO2 per km:154 gramsGood for:New tricksBad for:Old dogsScrewed on to the grille of my grandfather's blue and beige Ford Anglia were two badges. One proclaimed he was a member of the AA (these were the days when the AA's patrolmen saluted passing members); the other announced that he belonged to the Institute of Advanced Motorists. The fact he passed away 20 years ago in no way dilutes the astonishment the entire family felt when he was allowed to join the ranks of the IAM. He took up driving at 50 years of age, and the only person who ever felt safe in the passenger seat was my grandmother - who suffered from double cataracts.Harking back to the glory days of buffed paintwork and sun-sparkled chrome, Simon Carter, the menswear designer and a self-confessed car nut, has decided to "resurrect the grille badge from the clutches of auto jumbles" and has created a limited-edition design for the... well, erm, for a Vauxhall.But if badges were awarded for progress, then no car would be more deserving of a grille gong than Vauxhall's new Insignia. The car, launched at the same time General Motors seems to be buying a one-way ticket to oblivion, is the successor to the Vectra. The Vectra was an unlovely and dull offering in a market basket which contains Citro&euml;n's C5, Honda's Accord, Renault's Laguna, Mazda's 6 and the king of the sector, Ford's Mondeo. In order to compete, GM had to make sure the Insignia was blessed with enough charm to win over new owners while also having those don't-look-twice qualities which would give it a universal appeal for fleet managers, hire firms, police forces... Essentially, GM had to create an everyman car which every man could enjoy owning. No mean feat. But it achieved this by, without getting too technical, making a car that was nice to look at, comfy to sit in and pleasant to drive. It also ensured that the vehicle was economical with the juice, clean on the emissions, and good value. Ta-da! No magic, just good common sense.The Insignia has a graceful silhouette - in PR-ese that means it has a "sculptured artistry illustrated by wing and blade themes". On the inside, the finishing is pleasing and tactile. There's no sense of corners being cut. Which is just as it should be. But the Insignia also has a few crowd-pleasing tricks up its sleeve. A FlexRide system allows you to personalise your suspension. If you can't decide, it will automatically adapt to different driving styles and conditions. The car can also read. A front camera records road signs and beams them on to the dash - where you can then ignore them at your peril. The car can also switch its own lights from dazzle to dip and back again, which makes night driving a lot more courteous. A broad range of engines is on offer, but the big seller will be the no-fuss 2-litre diesel, which quietly and efficiently knocks out 50 miles to the gallon. All in all, it's hardly a surprise the Insignia has been voted 2009 European Car of the Year. A badge it can wear with pride.• We have 15 Simon Carter Insignia grille badges to give away. If you'd like one, emailmartin.love@observer.co.uk- badges will go to the first 15 emails
Susan Boyle on Britain's Got TalentJust in case you're one of the four remaining people not to have witnessed the 48-year-old church worker making reality TV history, here she is dreaming her dream again.Crisis Charts in SongsmithBravo to the young nerd who's fed various "crisis charts" into Microsoft's composition software, transposing plummeting stocks into sonic chirpiness. General Motors' nosedive is a particularly lively little tune.PhotochainingThe blog dedicated to a fast-growing project where people leave camera memory cards in public places and others upload their photographs. More interesting than your neighbour's holiday album.TracksSoap &amp; Skin - ThanatosiTunes, 79pThe haunting vocals of Austrian artist Anja Plaschg make her seem far older than her 19 years. Bold piano chords chime with her bewitching voice on this single from her new album, Lovetune for VacuumYeah Yeah Yeahs - Zero (AnimalCollective Remix)tinyurl.com/ckzl2cTwo of the most feted indie acts of the moment collide in Animal Collective's remix of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs. A stripped-down, futuristic version of the high-octane original.The Virgins - She's ExpensiveiTunes, 79pBreakthrough single "Rich Girls" announced  the New York band as one of 2008's brightest new propositions. The funk solo alone makes this one worth a listen.Moby - Shot in the Back of the Headfree download,moby.comThe chill-out king returns with more hazy atmospherics in this intense instrumental.VideosConor Oberst and the Mystic Valley Band - One of My Kindfree video download,causecast.orgConor "Bright Eyes" Oberst offers a 60-minute film about the first 18 months of his new band. Part music video, part documentary.
Engineers are to compete for funds to develop fraud-proof mobile phones to herald the way for their use as electronic wallets.Four out of five phones in use in the UK contain data which can be used by criminals to access bank accounts, steal identity or sell on personal data, yet only four in 10 people lock their mobiles using a PIN.Home Office minister Alan Campbell has called upon existing mobile phone users to, "lock their phones in the same way they would lock their cars and lock their homes." Launching a competition offering &pound;400,000 in development money for engineering new ways of preventing fraud, Campbell added: "We are very aware that new technology brings with it new risks of crime but we are very much on the front foot with regard to this. Criminals will always be looking for the next bit of technology and of ways to use that technology to commit crime. What government needs to make sure of is that we have the resources to tackle them."
When Jeff Bezos founded Amazon, his single strategic goal was to "get big quick". His hunch was that, in online retailing, size and scale would be the ultimate determinants of success. And his vision was never limited to books - they were the obvious starting point, because they are goods that people could buy without having to handle them. But Bezos had much more ambitious plans. He wanted to sell everything that could be sold online. He saw Amazon as potentially the Wal-Mart of the web.Last week we saw two very different illustrations of how close he has come to achieving his goal. Stephen Ju, an analyst at a US investment firm, published his analysis of the scale of Amazon's role in online retailing. The company's reported revenues consist of a mix of gross revenues from its own businesses plus net third-party commissions. To date, Ju observed, Amazon has not given a breakdown of the two numbers, other than as a percentage of units shipped. So he set out to try to work out the real picture.What he wanted to know is "how much third-party gross merchandise value is flowing through Amazon's platform - and what slice of all e-commerce Amazon is actually facilitating". His conclusion is that Amazon may now be "facilitating" close to a third of all e-commerce in the US and that it continues to gain share here. And he thinks the company will make further gains in international online retailing.Ju's conclusion may be the product of sophisticated mathematical analysis, but it won't have surprised anyone who shops online. I've lost track of the number of times when I've googled for something - an item of computing or garden equipment, for example, or a digital camera or an electric hob - only to find that Amazon offers the item in question, often in umpteen varieties. And usually at pretty competitive prices too. And because I've used Amazon from its inception and have had nothing but excellent customer service, I'm always more likely to buy from it than from a competing online retailer. In that way, it's become the cyberspace equivalent of John Lewis. So to me, the surprising thing about Ju's analysis is that Amazon doesn't have an even bigger market share than his computations suggest.With that kind of power comes responsibility, something that was vividly illustrated by a firestorm that blew up last weekend and showed Amazon in an uncharacteristically unfavourable light. It began on Sunday when a LiveJournal blog by author Mark Probst was picked up in the blogosphere. He had noticed that his book The Filly, though still listed on Amazon's US website, had lost its sales ranking data and was no longer appearing in relevant searches.Probst then emailed Amazon asking what was going on. He had an email reply - from a named human being, incidentally - saying: "In consideration of our entire customer base, we exclude 'adult' material from appearing in some searches and bestseller lists. Since these lists are generated using sales ranks, adult materials must also be excluded from that feature." Probst duly posted this reply on his blog.By this time thousands of people had been alerted, and it was rapidly discovered that Amazon's interpretation of "adult" seemed to mean books or DVDs with gay or lesbian themes. That meant they would no longer turn up in searches, or, when found, would no longer include their sales rankings. At which point, the issue exploded into an online firestorm. Even normally dispassionate commentators were swept up in the moral outrage. "There is no civil rights struggle in the US that matters more to me," wrote one of them, Clay Shirky, "than the extension of equal rights without regard for sexual orientation. Here was a chance to strike a public blow for that cause, and I didn't even have to write a check or get up from my chair to do it!"Later, Shirky wrote an admirable account of how he - along with thousands of other commentators - had allowed anger to cloud his judgment. What stimulated his change of heart was Amazon's release of an apologetic statement stating that it was an "embarrassing and ham-fisted cataloguing error" that had banned 57,310 listings. "So it's over," wrote Probst, the man whose post triggered the storm. "Amazon admits they goofed, and I, for one, shall give them the benefit of the doubt and say I do not believe that there was any malicious intent. Case closed."Until the next time.
The big event on Twitter last week wasOprah Winfreymaking her first tweet, liveon her show, with the help of Twitter co-founderEv Williams. "HI TWITTERS," she shouted, "THANK YOU FOR A WARM WELCOME. FEELING REALLY 21st CENTURY."The show also crownedAshton KutcherKing of Twitter for becoming the first user with a million followers, following a race with the CNN Breaking News account.Oprah is a huge power in the US, as we have seen from her book club and magazine. Where Oprah leads, thousands if not hundreds of thousands follow -- starting withGayle Kingfrom Oprah's magazine. Indeed, Oprah's own following has already zoomed past many of the UK's favourite tweeters, including Jonathan Ross. There's no telling where it will end.If you missed the event, you can watch the two YouTube videos on the Mashable post,Ashton Kutcher and Evan Williams Talk Twitter With Oprah [Video].Kutcher made the right noises about the "democratization of media" -- that "one man can have a voice that's as loud as an entire media company". He also talked about the ability to correct stories about him by talking directly to fans, instead of going through publicists, journalists and other intermediaries.Whether Kutcher's achievement will survive close scrutiny is another matter. NowPublic has already questioned it inAshton Kutcher Punks Twitter: A Giant Million Follower PR Stunt. It says:This is not a story of the "little man" beating out "big media" — this is the story of a major Hollywood celebrity orchestrating a massive, social media publicity campaign that was specifically designed to promote himself, Twitter and, by extension, Ted Turner and CNN.Kutcher's effort was promoted on 1,133 digital billboards, it says, and "as the race to the million follower finish line approached last night, Twitter users were suspiciously blocked from unfollowing either Ashton or CNN". It reckons the show needed someone to make the million, though (as suggested in comments) it might simply have been a way to prevent people gaming the system to try to win the prize for the millionth follower.It also remains to be seen whether 4chan got involved. Members of this bulletin board belatedlyentered the race, using hundreds of thousands of fake accounts.Ev was less impressive than Kutcher, and ducked the chance to say something useful about Twitter policy on fakesters. Oprah pointed out that anyone could set up an account and pretend to be Oprah, so how would anyone know an account was the real thing? This is a serious problem that, at the moment, is being handled at the grass roots level by sites such asValebrity. Ev's answer was that "our people know your people," which is no use at all to many millions of people with some species of fame.Twitter is a tiny 30-person company, and if you are, for example, an actor on EastEnders or Corrie, or an author or a pop band, your people (if any) certainly don't know their people.Still, Twitter was growing at a rapid rate, and Oprah's arrival is likely to boost it. This will make Twitter less select and less geeky, and that might attract different kinds of attack. Gartner analyst Mark Raskino, co-author of Mastering The Hype Cycle, thinks the process may already have started., His post,Classic Hype Cycle turn signal: 'Twitter Backlash' reported, picks up on a New York Observer headline that caught his attention:'Twitter Sucks!' The Backlash Begins. Among other things, this points to "an entire blog devoted to chronicling the "Twitter Backlash".Raskino says:Remember the innovation is microblogging (and there are competitors) - so let's forget the company name for a moment.  This technology innovation example is particularly interesting because the technology is of direct relevance to journalists and media people in their own jobs. So naturally they will discuss it more and the situation is unusually amplified. As they compete for audience attention we will tend to see more extreme hyperbole and backlash. That helps make this innovation a particularly clear reference example, as it passes through the early stages of the Hype Cycle.The benefit of the Hype Cycle, of course, is that it helps you regard the backlash in the same way as the hype. Neither is worth taking too seriously: they're just a normal part of the way technologies grow up.
Anyone who's a fan of the films of Wes Anderson (Rushmore, The Royal Tenenbaums, The Darjeeling Limited and forthcoming Fantastic Mr Fox) should head over to this sister site of New York's Museum Of The Moving Image. Substance Of Style is a five-part documentary on the influential director that analyses his manifold influences - from Charlie Brown and JD Salinger to Orson Welles and Martin Scorsese - and, in turn, Anderson's effect on quirky hits such as Juno and Napoleon Dynamite. It's intellectual but fascinating and the kind of thing you're not likely to catch on TV. Elsewhere are lots of equally scholarly essays on subjects as diverse as Pac-Man, Battlestar Galactica and the anti-cinema of Kiju Yoshida.
The Chapman brothersare two scary dudesWhere our pantsended upSeth Rogenis fast and bi-curiousWhat your moustachesays about the manChannel 4 4oD Catch-Upnow works on MacsWe makea beautiful looking SpockThe 20 bestworld rally crashes"Feed her to a shark, Mark"and 44 other ways to leave your loverA field guideto the many variations of "Heavy Metal Satan fingers"Heroesis the most illegally downloaded TV showEverything sounds betterwith a donk on it
Picking up where last year's Hollywood film left off, Wanted: Weapons Of Fate sees you alternating between control of hero Wesley Gibson and his father, both of whom are genetically altered super-assassins. What this means in game terms is slinking between pieces of low cover in search of your prey, whom you shoot, flank or sneak up next to and stab before moving on to the next small crowd that needs killing. The game's swift assassinations are briefly thrilling, but reveal all they're ever going to in tactical terms in the first few minutes, leaving the rest of this very short game to feel the full letdown of its wafer-thin mechanics, weaselly-sounding narration and weak set pieces. Despite manifold shortcomings, the atmosphere it creates in its too-dark interiors is a bit different, even if it's a difference you'll grow to despise as you succumb to its many flaws.• Warner Bros, &pound;34.99-&pound;39.99
"Home taping is killing music," the record labels chanted almost 30 years ago. The plea fell on deaf ears: the techniques for getting something for nothing have become ever more complex with the universality of the internet over the past 10 years.Napsterwas a piece of software that allowed people around the world to swap songs with each other by clicking a button on their computer. The company was eventually sued in 2000, leading not only to Napster's closure but also heralding a sequence of court cases against the multitude of filesharing services that were springing up.One of the most popular,Grokster, was closed in 2005 after a US supreme court ruling, while Australia forced another well-known service,Kazaa, to agree a settlement with the music industry worth more than $100m (about &pound;67m).Despite these cases, however, the proliferation of copyrighted material online has multiplied.Downloading larger files like movies has become easier as broadband gets faster, and the complex system known asBittorrent- which is used by The Pirate Bay - is now thought to be responsible for more than 40% of all internet traffic.At the same time, sites likeYouTubehave come under fire for allowing people to put copyrighted material online. Media conglomerate Viacom is in the middle of a $1bn lawsuit against Google, which owns YouTube, claiming it does not do enough to prevent infringement.
The music, film and entertainment industries were celebrating a rare victory over internet copyright pirates last night after a Swedish court handed down prison sentences and hefty fines to four men behind the world's most notorious filesharing website.In what is being described as a landmark verdict, the quartet in charge ofThe Pirate Bay- which offers thousands of movies, TV shows and tracks of music for download - were found guilty of helping to illegally distribute copyrighted material and sentenced to a year in prison and fines totalling &pound;2.4m.The ruling by a judge in Stockholm marks the culmination of a two-year case brought by a consortium of media and entertainment companies, led by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI)."This is good news for everyone - in Sweden and internationally - who is making a living or a business from creative activity and who needs to know their rights will protected by law," said John Kennedy, the chairman of the IFPI. "It would have been very difficult to put on a brave face if we had lost, but this verdict sends a strong educational and deterrent message."The defendants, who have cultivated an image of rebellious outsiders, reacted acidly to the news, however, calling the verdict "bullshit", promising to appeal and signalling that they would not shut the site down."Nothing will happen to TPB, us personally or filesharing whatsoever," said Peter Sunde Kolmisoppi, one of the site's founders, on Twitter. "This is just a theatre for the media."Since it first launched in 2003, The Pirate Bay has become the poster child for illegal downloading, used by millions of people to get copies of the latest movies, TV shows and music releases.Although the site had been raided by police on several occasions, its creators argued that they were not acting illegally under Sweden's intepretation of copyright law.They also taunted the authorities by promoting high-profile downloads of new Hollywood films and responding to legal threats by posting insults online.In one exchange withDreamWorks- the film studio behind hits including Gladiator and Shrek - The Pirate Bay lashed out with verbal abuse and accusations of US imperialism. "Sweden is not a state in the United States of America ... US law does not apply here," they said."It is the opinion of us and our lawyers that you are morons and that you should sodomise yourself with retractable batons."Lawyers representing the four men had maintained that The Pirate Bay was essentially no different from Google, merely acting as a search engine of online content.It does not host pirated files itself, but tracks the location of copyrighted files and provides links to chunks of material known as torrents hosted elsewhere on the internet. As such, it does not directly infringe copyright, lawyers argued.That contention was partially successful, with prosecutors forced to drop half of their charges against the men early in the trial.However, the quartet's championing of piracy and their antagonistic attitude counted against them as the court found them guilty on 33 counts of making files accessible for illegal sharing, and ordered that compensation be divided between a consortium including Sony BMG, Universal, MGM and 20th Century Fox.Three of the men found guilty yesterday - Kolmisoppi, Fredrik Neij and Gottfrid Svartholm Warg - were involved in the day-to-day operation of the website. The fourth, Carl Lundstrom, a former Swedish food magnate turned extreme rightwing politician, provided funds that helped keep it running.Industry experts warned that the victory is unlikely to have much impact on filesharing, with millions of people continuing to use The Pirate Bay and other services to download files illegally.Mark Mulligan, a digital music analyst and vice-president of research atForrester Research, said the result was a fillip for the entertainment business - but that its effect would be temporary at best."It's important for the industry, and they have to do it or they're giving filesharing the go-ahead - but they're not going to create a significant downturn in traffic," he told the Guardian."In the past where they could have a substantive effect on an illegal service, all it did was push the proliferation of alternatives ... there's every chance that illegal downloading will be even more popular next year."The decision further exposed the growing rift between the creative industries and technologically savvy members of the public, as artists widely welcomed the decision but thousands of web-users derided the court's judgment and said they would continue downloading."No one can stop us, that sentence will not be executed," said one user onTwitter. "Obviously a stitch-up," said another.Talking after the verdict, a pale and tired-looking Kolmisoppi insisted he was "OK" and vowed to appeal the case."We lost, but in the next level we will win," he said. "Maybe we're playing with matches, but I think it's more fair when one person decides the outcome."
Apple's iPhone now benefits from a staggering 25,000 downloadable applications, which can be bought or acquired for free from the online App Store. Although there are thousands of productivity tools, calendar enhancement applications and restaurant finders, this has also meant a flood of games, some of which are actually good. Westward is a retread of a PC-based real-time strategy game in which you help settlers colonise and defend sections of the wild west. Trying to get the right balance of mining, farming, entertainment and town defence means constant tweaking of your resources and concerted exploration of its maps. With a prominent plot and characters, this is more linear and story driven than many strategy games and none the worse for it, although there has been over-ambition on the interface, which clutters the touch screen with menus, icons and readings, until the game obviously slows down when your towns get big.• Sandlot Games, &pound;2.99
In the Guardian several weeks ago, U2's manager embraced recent proposals to make ISPs kick people off the internet if they are repeatedly caught illegally downloading music. Since the days of Napster, the music industry has followed a similar route of anti-piracy but the people behind Warp Records and a bunch of other indie labels may have hit upon a new way of encouraging people to pay for their tunes - by turning us all into retailers. At the People's Music Store, you can design and open your own storefront, select a batch of songs from a library and then sell them, earning yourself 10% of the profits to use towards buying new music. It's not going to solve the big situation but it's a cooler, friendlier way forward than that of U2.
The government has proposed putting tens of millions of pounds behind Lord Carter's ambition to offer everyone in Britain access to broadband by 2012, and is also looking to bring mobile phone services to the entire country as part of a major push to create a digital economy.Gordon Brown yesterday backed the communications minister's plans for universal broadband access."I do think that the digital revolution lies at the heart of success for Britain in the years to come," he told a summit of media and telecoms industry executives in London. "Achieving that goal of universal connectivity to broadband will be a critical stepping stone to a digital Britain."Lord Carter made getting fast internet access to the estimated 1.5m homes that cannot achieve speeds of roughly 2Mb a second a major part of his interim Digital Britain report in January.Since then his adviser Kip Meek has been trying to thrash out a deal with the mobile phone companies that would allow them to extend mobile broadband services to rural areas where installing new fixed-line infrastructure would be too expensive.He is understood to have proposed a new universal service commitment, replacing the current obligation on BT to ensure everyone has a basic phone line, which would see the UK divided up into regions for which operators can bid to deliver broadband services.Successful applicants, whether mobile operators or fixed-line companies such as BT, must allow rival companies to use their infrastructure on a wholesale basis. Some remote UK locations are likely to have to rely upon satellite broadband.But successful bidders will be allowed to dip into a fund made up of public money and cash collected under an industry levy  to help meet the cost of investment.The government is understood to be willing to use a significant proportion of the &pound;130m a year that the BBC receives to help people switch to digital television. Once the analogue TV signal is switched off in 2012, that cash will no longer be required, although Channel 4 had been hoping to grab some of it to fill its funding gap.In addition, the Digital Britain team has proposed a universal mobile commitment, which would see mobile phone services extended across the entire population. Meek is understood to have proposed ring-fencing some of the "digital dividend" - spectrum that will become free when the analogue TV signal is switched off in 2012 - so the mobile phone companies can use it to push 3G services beyond their current limit of 80% of the population.In return for linking up all but a few tens of thousands of the UK's remotest homes to the mobile phone network, the Digital Britain team has proposed an indefinite extension to the licences to run 3G services that the five networks bought for &pound;22.5bn in 2000.The universal mobile commitment, however, still requires Vodafone and O2 to give back some of the mobile phone spectrum they were granted when they started initial voice services back in the 1980s so it can be shared among rivals. The two companies, however, are understood to be close to agreement before Lord Carter's deadline of the end of the month.
Shadow play ...Generally, when a game gets turned into a film, it's because finance and marketing departments have got together to talk about guaranteed audiences. That the output of these discussions is invariably a soulless exploitation piece produced for as little money as possible by people who have no interest in either games or films is something that keeps expectation levels around basement level. Shadow Of The Colossus was a hauntingly beautiful game in which you stalked, climbed and eventually killed a series of vast walking, swimming and flying colossi, increasingly questioning your mission until (for the very first time ever) you started to feel horrible about carrying out the game's tasks. While there's undoubtedly material in there worth exploring in celluloid, anyone unfortunate enough to have sat through the desperate Max Payne movie will already be holding head in hands at word emerging from Columbia Pictures that a film is in the pipeline.
Chris Howes went to the show as a 12th birthday treat for his gadget-obsessed eldest son. But he ended up buying a strange new gizmo for himself - menthol-flavoured electronic cigarettes.Howes, a retired sports centre worker from Bedford, smokes 30 a day. He had tried everything to ditch the habit, including acupuncture, patches and gum. He reckoned the electronic fags might just work. "It tastes like you're having a proper cigarette and it feels like one as well," he said after exhaling a puff of nicotine-flavoured vapour.When he inhaled a green light came on at the tip of the cigarette, or E-Lites as they are called. The plastic smokes, which are addictive but otherwise harmless, provide a nicotine hit from a clever-sounding atomiser inside. They come with a charger, and after that they are &pound;1.40 for a pack of 20.The E-Lites were just one of many odd innovations launched at the firstGadget Show Live, an exhibition at Birmingham's NEC based on the Channel Five TV programme. Money worries have forced many to look for a more pared-down lifestyle, but this was the place to come to see how manufacturers hope to tempt us into spending again.Hundreds of visitors queued yesterday before the doors opened. First in line were Andrew and Andrea Ronan and their teenage boys, Declan and Callum, from Guiseley, near Leeds. "We love technology. If we had more money we'd have more technology," said Andrew, a menswear salesman.The organisers are expecting 30,000 people over the three-day event, which was sold out weeks ago. Yesterday the biggest attractions were computer games and the Grand Prix Experience, a pod the size of a white van that simulates driving a formula one car. There was also the world's first power-assisted suitcase, a bag on wheels that you have to hold back to stop it clipping your heels. A &pound;3,800 chair offered eight different types of massages such as "stiff shoulders" and "night time". For those struggling to cope with the excitement there was a display of anoraks that don't steam up. Damian Hennessey, a product designer from Reading, was trying out the Gocycle. It looked like a version of the Sinclair C5, and appeared to combine the vulnerabilities of cycling without the benefit of exercise or indeed  economy. It is going on sale for &pound;1,198.But Hennessey wanted one. "It's really cool," he said. "It's a strange sensation, the way it pulls you along - 15mph is faster than you think."
One of the co-founders of The Pirate Bay website said today thatthe one-year prison sentences handed down by a Swedish judgeare "weird and bizarre" and insisted that the defendants "can't pay and wouldn't pay" the $3.6m (£2.4m)  fine.In a press conference held after a Stockholm court found the four defendants guilty of assisting the distribution of illegal content online that was webcast on the Pirate Bay site, Peter Sunde Kolmisoppi held up a handwritten IOU to the camera and said "that is as close as they are going to get from me"."Even if I had any money I would rather burn everything I own and not even give them the ashes. They could have the job of picking them up. That's how much I hate the media industry," Kolmisoppi added.Kolmisoppi said the prosecution had incorrectly tried to present the four defendants as an organised crime team, when actually he said he hardly knows his codefendant Carl Lundström.He cited previous murder cases in Sweden in which individual crimes could not be determined when more than one defendant was tried, meaning no sentence was passed. In that context, said Kolmisoppi, the jail sentence was surprising "but they decided every one of us killed the media industry"."It is serious to be found guilty and to get jail time, and that is a bit weird, but so bizarre that we have even been convicted at all. It is a bit unreal," he added.Kolmisoppi urged supporters to join demonstrations in Sweden, not to protest about the sentence imposed on the codefendants but "to support the democratic process – and one not influenced by money and power which is the big issue here".He has insisted from the start of the trial that the action was politically motivated, initiated by the Swedish government under pressure from multinational media, film and music corporations. He continued to paint a picture of The Pirate Bay as a heroic, renegade outfit, comparing the trial to the plot of the Karate Kid film and saying "in the end, we will have an epic win. We will kick ass."The Pirate Bay site will continue to run because it was the four co-founders, and not the site itself, that were on trial, he added.John Kennedy, the chairman and chief executive of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, said he expected The Pirate Bay to appeal, but insisted that the fine levied on the defendants was not just a token penalty and would be paid.It is a third of the amount prosecutors had pushed for, but Swedish court procedure is to establish fines based on audits of a company's accounts – which hints that, contrary to the claims of the codefendants, The Pirate Bay has been generating money.Kennedy said he "absolutely believed" that the co-founders had used overseas bank accounts to manage money made from The Pirate Bay."It is one thing to make money from legal music licences online, but it is quite another to say you don't make any money when you are doing so at the expense of artists, musicians and filmmakers," he added.Other trade bodies have been quick to praise the verdict, including the Business Software Alliance and Linx, which represents the UK's internet service providers.However, the copyright specialist Robin Fry, of commercial law firm Beachcroft, pointed out that the lawsuit may not have been successful in the UK, where copyright law is based on an act from 1906 that criminalises the use of articles designed for copying rights-protected material."Current legislation simply does not address these kinds of online service. Despite the Digital Britain initiative, new legislation is unlikely against a backdrop of increased calls to rebalance copyright away from the large media groups to users," said Fry.Digital media law specialist Gregor Pryor at Reed Smith highlighted "the increased and welcome trend of protectionism" in anti-piracy cases from direct infringement on Napster to software provision in the case of Kazaa and Grokster."Nonetheless, as the law gets tighter, the music industry must continue to release its grip on digital content and allow compelling, innovative legal music services to grow and flourish by licensing those services on reasonable terms," Smith said.The celebrity and technophile Stephen Fry added controversy to the debate today by commenting on the case on Twitter: "Pirate Bay not saints. But we've got to think about this rationally &amp; sensibly. Shouting 'thief' all the time is no help. I stole in cassette age."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The trade secretary, Lord Mandelson, has indicated that the government is considering "pump priming" financial intervention to ensure next-generation broadband is available to all UK households.Speaking at the Digital Britain summit in London today, Mandelson said the government cannot be content with the telecoms industry's current plans, which will only make super-fast broadband services available to about half the country.His commentsfollowed a speech by Gordon Brown at the same eventin which the prime minister alluded to recent moves in other countries – such as the US – that involve injecting government money into the building of next-generation internet networks.Put together, the two speeches led delegates to hope that next week's budget could include some form of financial support for the broadband industry."The market unaided will provide some of the next-generation infrastructure the UK needs but government cannot be indifferent to the wider national needs," Mandelson said.Current plans by phone company BT and cable operator Virgin Media to roll out next-generation fibre-optic broadband networks, offering services at 40Mbps and 50Mbps, will leave some 12.5 million British households – about half the UK – out of the loop. "I don't think we can be content with that," Mandelson responded.Asked whether he was advocating direct government intervention, he replied that this was a possibility rather than a certainty."I am a public investor when it is appropriate," Mandelson said. However, he stressed that he has no intention of "replacing market forces or displacing the private sector" when it can do a better job.He added that what the government needed to do was "support, encourage, aid, abet, even pump prime"."How we do it is up to others to decide," Mandelson said, in an obvious indication that the issue has climbed up the prime minister's agenda.Earlier in the day, Brown threw his weight behind the call in Lord Carter's interim Digital Britain report for everyone to have access to broadband services – at about 2Mbps – by 2012."I do think that the digital revolution lies at the heart of success for Britain in the years to come," Brown said. "Achieving that goal of universal connectivity to broadband will be a critical stepping stone to a digital Britain."Opening the day-long Digital Britain summit, the culture secretary, Andy Burnham, spoke about the important role of quality infrastructure and content."It is quality in these industries that Britain is known for around the world and I feel it is quality that will guarantee our longer-term success," he said."It is an argument about the importance of journalistic standards in an age when everybody can put their content online and make it available to the world. It is an argument for innovative content and it is an argument for protecting creative values so we can reinvest in the creative process," Burnham added.Digital Britain must secure a future for the content that people value the most, such as children's programming and regional news, he said."I would add another: I see local media as a touchstone for how we retain all that is good about traditional media," Burnham added."Local press, local radio, these are vital parts of the local community but local media is currently feeling the full force of the global downturn and the structural changes brought by digital technology, leaving local families adrift and local citizens disenfranchised. We should work together to find creative solutions."The final Digital Britain report, to be published before the summer parliamentary recess in July, is expected to include a wide-ranging restructuring of local media ownership laws, paving the way for consolidation. "It is clear continued cost cutting is not the answer," Burnham said.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Channel 4have been aggressively commissioning UK games companies to create multi-platform games for their Education strand over the past year, and they've had some rather modest success, including a Bafta for their co-production with Brighton-basedLittle LoudonBow Street Runner.Most recently, they've completed a multi-month project in association with several talented UK games developers and The Wellcome Trust calledRoutes, which explores the challenging subject of genetics (it is Darwin's year, after all), but in an engaging and entertaining way. MIke Bennett, Creative Director and CEO ofOil Productions Ltd, one of the teams behind the game development, popped into the gamesblog's elevator to pitch their creation. It seems the future isn't indie, it's multi-platform. Read on for more on how they've had 1.5m eyeballs on their minigames.Explain your game to my mum in 140 words.It's like Emmerdale only with scientists, a comedian, a murder and lots of games. Okay it's an interactive, Genomic Thiller. Interactive - because you can play it online and via live events. Genomic - because its about genes and what it is that makes us human, and a Thriller - because someone dies and you have to find out why and how.How do players control the game?They can talk to the characters via blogs, email and even at live events. Players can follow up leads such as calling and harassing the editorial staff at a fictional Genetics Magazine or by helping to translate Spanish police footage to discover clues, and they can even help out in the Finale where we break into a corporate building, override the security systems and attempt to solve the mystery.What is your background?I have had 15 years digital experience running and building creative businesses, for example Sunbather, Empty Space and Digit, and three years running a digital comedy channel, Haha Bonk, and a lot of time arguing with advertising teams about the elephant in the room.Name your competitors.Its a fairly new space so there aren't that many of us doing this exclusively but,Six to StartandHollerboth do great work in this space...there are more but not many, although lots claim they do...How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?We have over 1.5 million plays on our minigames. 100k unique visitors to routesgame.com. We have had over 20k views of the docu-drama and the Thriller [ran] on Channel 4 in the Three Minute Wonder slot for a week from March 2nd. We expect those numbers to double by the end of the eight-week run.What's your biggest challenge?Managing an entire digital experience from the Ad and banner campaign through to the Documentary, the mini games the Live events and the ARG. Our team are herculean in their abilityWhat's the weirdest development experience you've had thus far?Dealing with a roomful of teens who had turned up to see the show launch and then having our Lead character "Rachel" melt down in front of them all at the news her "Uncle" had died. Blurring the boundaries between fiction and reality is amazing but means everybody has to act. Also spending a week writing as guests of The Wellcome Trust at the Sanger Institute with a group of world famous geneticists was a mind bending experience.What's your distribution/publishing plan?SNS widget installation, aggressive PR plan, banner ads throughout Channel 4, TV spot and a group of grass roots players called the "Routes Crew" from schools around the country who we've been working with.Are indie games the latest killer app?No multi-platform entertainment is.Are you the next big thing?If I keep eating the pies yes.Routes is now finished, but you can check out all the assets atroutesgame.com
What is The Pirate Bay?The Pirate Bay was launched in 2003 by Swedish free culture think tankPiratbyrån, or the Piracy Bureau. The Piratbyrån question current intellectual property and copyright regulation. The name of the think tank is in response to the the SvenskaAntipiratbyrån, the Swedish Anti-Piracy Agency, funded by theMotion Picture Association of America, theUS movie lobby group.The Pirate Bay is aBitTorrent tracker. BitTorrent is a de-centralised file-sharing technology. While early music file-sharing service Napster hosted music files, The Pirate Bay does not itself host audio and video files, but provides links to torrent files that allow its users to share the files amongst themselves.BitTorrent, as with any file-sharing technolgy, can be used to share files legally. It can be used to distribute files with open licences, such as the the Linux operating system or openly licenced literature, music or movies. However, the movie and music industries charged that the tracker listed links to thousands of copyrighted films, television programs and songs.In October 2004, The Pirate Bay was spun off from the Piratbyrån. On The Pirate Bay, the site's organisers said, "Piratbyrån continues the copyfight in a more intellectual manner".What was the trial about?The four defendants – Fredik Neij, Carl Lundstrom, Gottfrid Svartholm Warg and Peter Sunde Kolmisoppi – were charged with assisting the distribution of illegal content online and the more serious charge of illegal distribution of copyrighted content. Prosecutors dropped the illegal distribution charge on the second day of the trial. The defendants declared this an early victory and claimed the prosecutor didn't understand the technology, but the prosecution said it would make it easier to achieve a guilty verdict.The judge ruled that despite the fact that the Pirate Bay does not host the copyrighted materials, that it nevertheless assists in the distribution of illegal content.The trial was not about whether file-sharing technology was illegal.  In fact, peer-to-peer file-sharing has become so mainstream that it is now incorporated into sharing of copyrighted materials. NBC in the US uses peer-to-peer file-sharing in its NBCDirect service. The BBC iPlayer originally used peer-to-peer file-sharing. Large media companies have realised that file-sharing helps lower their costs of sharing large files, such as high-definition video.What happens next in the case?Both sides said that they would appeal if the verdict went against them. The process may take several years.Will this be the end of free file-sharing?No. The Pirate Bay has servers in Belgium and Russia, and it is unlikely that the ruling will have any immediate impact on the service. Also, while The Pirate Bay is the largest BitTorrent tracker, it is far from being the only one. As Napster gave rise to decentralised file-sharing, this will lead to even more de-centralised methods that are harder for authorities to track, and file-sharers will become more adept at hiding their activities.
The prime minister, Gordon Brown, today threw his weight behind calls for universal broadband access across the country in a speech at the Digital Britain summit in London.Brown told leading players from the media, music, telecoms and technology industries that blanket high speed internet access would be integral to the success of Britain's economy.In hiskeynote addressto theDigital Britain summit, at the British Library in London, the prime minister said a digital revolution "lies at the heart" of Britain's economic recovery and highlighted the important role broadband and the media industry can play in pulling the UK out of recession."I do think that the digital revolution lies at the heart of success for Britain in the years to come," Brown said. "Achieving that goal of universal connectivity to broadband will be a critical stepping stone to a digital Britain."Brown added that the challenge for Britain was to use its skills in the technological and creative industries to take advantage of emerging markets."Only by embracing a digital Britain and taking a lead in the global digital economy can we maintain our competitiveness as one of the world's leading economic and industrial powers in years to come," he said.Brown added that the global economy was likely to double in size in the next two decades, with billions of people in India, China and other parts of Asia becoming consumers of goods and services."We may not compete with them on scale or low pay, but we can compete on high value-added goods, and services," he added.The trade secretary, Lord Mandelson,also speaking at the Digital Britain summit, echoed the prime minister by stressing that the creation of a fully digital UK is "critical" to the UK's economic success.Mandelson made the case for government intervention in the creative industries, although he stopped short of promising public funding to back this up.Today's summit comes as other countries, such as Australia and France, are planning for super-fast broadband networks and supporting their own creative industries.The communications minister, Lord Carter, is heading the government's Digital Britain project and by July is due to publish a final report on how best to achieve goals, including universal broadband access and ensuring the future of public service broadcasting.His final report isexpected to lead to new legislation– the digital economy bill – which will introduce sweeping changes to the regulatory regime for television, radio and regional newspaper companies, allowing them to merge to meet the challenges of the internet and other digital technologies.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The four defendants in the Pirate Bay trial in Sweden have been found guilty of "'assisting in making copyright content available" and sentenced to a year in jail by a district court in Stockholm. The defendants were running a website with links to BitTorrent peer-to-peer downloads. Damages have been set at 30 million SEK ($3,620,000),reports the Guardian.Frederik Neij, Gottfrid Svartholm Warg, Carl Lundstrom and Peter Sunde are now expected to appeal.The verdict was leaked last night, according toTorrentFreak. Peter Sunde Kolmisoppi, aka @brokep on Twitter, commented that "Really, it's a bit LOL. It used to be only movies, now even verdicts are out before the official release"The jail sentences are likely to create outrage online, but Sunde tweeted: "Stay calm - Nothing will happen to TPB, us personally or file sharing what so ever. This is just a theater for the media."TorrentFreak reports that"At one point the judge was asked if he was concerned for his personal safety after handing down this decision. The judge said he hadn't received any harassment and was quite surprised at the question."Given the odium already heaped on, for example football referees such asSweden's Anders Frisk, it's a reasonable question.Following the verdict, it will be interesting to see whether the organisations behind the case -- the International Federation of the Phonographic Industries and the Motion Picture Association of America -- will now try to get Google and YouTube into court. There is no shortage of links to copyright information on Google. There is a difference, in that linking to torrent files is a byproduct of Google's ubiquitous search strategy, rather than its purpose. Still, it would be interesting to see Larry Page, Sergey Brin and Eric Schmidt jailed as well.
The four co-founders of website The Pirate Bay have been found guilty of assisting the distribution of illegal content online by a Swedish court today and have been sentenced to a year in jail and a $3.6m (£2.4m) fine.Charges against the site, which allows web users to access music, movies and TV shows without paying for them and claimed 22 million users during February, were brought by a consortium of media, film and music companies led by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry.A Stockholm court found the four defendants guilty of making 33 specific files accessible for illegal sharing through The Pirate Bay, which means they will have to pay compensation to 17 different music and media companies including Sony BMG, Universal, EMI, Warner, MGM and 20th Century Fox.All four have pledged to appeal against the decision though the process may take several years.One of the defendants, Peter Sunde Kolmisoppi, admitted on Twitter that Pirate Bay had lost its case."Stay calm – nothing will happen to TPB, us personally or filesharing what so ever. This is just a theatre for the media," he said."Really, it's a bit LOL. It used to be only movies, now even verdicts are out before the official release."John Kennedy, chairman and chief executive of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, said: "We're very pleased at the verdict of what was a very important case for us."It would have been very difficult to put on a brave face if we had lost, but this verdict sends a strong educational and deterrent message."The trial began on 16 February in Stockholm district court, when the four co-founders of The Pirate Bay, Fredrik Neij, Carl Lundström, Gottfrid Svartholm Warg and Kolmisoppi, were put in the dock on charges of assisting copyright infringement.The Pirate Bay does not itself host audio and video files, but provides links to torrents hosted elsewhere on the internet.Throughout the trial, the Pirate Bay defendants have played up their image as rebellious outsiders, arriving at court in a slogan-daubed party bus and insisting that their position was to defend a popular technology rather than illegal filesharing.Prosecutors made a major slip-up on the second day of the trial after failing to convince the judge that illegally copied files had been distributed by the site.They were forced to drop the charge of "assisting copyright infringement" and focus on the lesser charge of "assisting making available copyrighted content". They had been seeking SKr115m (£9.1m) in compensation for loss of earnings due to the millions of illegal downloads facilitated by the site.The trial has further polarised the tech community and the music industry with both sides eagerly awaiting the result, which will be regarded as a precedent for future filesharing cases.Supporters of The Pirate Bay held a street party in Moscow last night, with organisers saying the trial had proved that the companies behind the prosecution were "motivated only by their greed and inertia, want to prevent people sharing music, movies, or anything, on a purely altruistic basis".The chairman of the Swedish Independent Music Producers Association, Jonas Sjöström, said as the trial concluded that the consortium is "tired and sick of services like The Pirate Bay who have no understanding or respect for the creative community, and instead have their own financial interests at heart".Meanwhile, Sweden's National Museum of Science and Technology announced yesterday that it had bought a server owned by The Pirate Bay confiscated by police last year. The museum paid SKr2,000 for the server and will display it in its archive of illegally copied material.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?My sat-nav. I no longer spend time driving round car parks, doing U-turns and reversing out of dead ends. I also feel less lonely on long journeys as I have someone talking to me and telling me what to do – it's like being in a car with my parents.When was the last time you used it, and what for?The last time I used it was 10 mins ago, when trying to get back from a comedy club to my hotel.What additional features would you add if you could?I would like it to read my email out to me, cook my dinner, and wash my underwear.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Yes there will probably be a more advanced version which will really do all of the above and probably drive my car as well.What always frustrates you about technology in general?When it doesn't work, I never know how to fix it. It's always so complicated and I have to ring a call centre in India, who will tell me to just unplug it all and then plug it back in, which seems to be make everything work again.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Use it as much as you can before it becomes out of date and breaks and it costs more to fix it than buy a new one.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I am an anal nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My laptop.Mac or PC, and why?Mac. The PC is too fashionable for me. I am old fashioned and like to keep it real, and simple. I can't stand things popping up everywhere – well, not on my screen anyway.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I still buy CDs and DVDs and would buy tapes as well if i had something to play them on. The last DVD i bought, was a documentry about Muhammad Ali called Rumble in the Jungle, which I bought from a second-hand DVD shop in San Francisco.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I don't even know what they are! I must be really out of touch.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I would love to own my own video projector, an iPod and a laser hair removal machine, and I'd like to use them all at the same time.• Shazia Mirza is currently touring the UK
The trade secretary, Lord Mandelson, will today stress that the creation of a fully digital Britain is "critical" to the UK's future economic success.Mandelson's speech will follow a keynote address to the Digital Britain summit in London by Gordon Brown in which the prime minister is expected to stress the important role that the government believes broadband and the media industry can play in pulling the UK out of recession.Today's summit, which involves senior media, telecoms, music and technology industry executives alongside technophiles – including Stephen Fry – will also be addressed by the culture secretary, Andy Burnham.Mandelson will make clear the case for government intervention in the so-called creative industries, although he is expected to stop short of promising any actual government funding."The imperative and scope of Digital Britain goes to the very heart of UK industrial success in this century, the nature of the jobs we do and the lives we lead," Mandelson will tell the summit. "I talk a lot about bridges to our economic future – this is one of the most important. And I believe there's a clear, strategic role for government to help make it a reality.""Bringing forward such transformational change – like the shift to digital communications – is critical to our future economic success. We need government action to help drive that change and ensure UK firms have the capacity to compete for the economic opportunities it brings.The summit was promised earlier this year when Lord Carter published his interim Digital Britain report. "This summit will bring together some of the leading thinkers in the digital economy," the communications minister said yesterday. "Their views on how to develop our infrastructure, develop our content and creative industries and keep pace with international competition will be invaluable as we finalise our thinking over the next two months."Carter is heading the Digital Britain project and by July is due to publish a final report on how best to achieve goals including universal broadband access and ensuring the future of public service broadcasting.However, the government also hopes Carter's final Digital Britain report will provide a blueprint for economic growth driven by the UK's creative industries that will help offset the country's recent reliance on the financial services sector.The meeting comes as other countries, such as Australia and France, are putting together their own plans for super-fast broadband networks and supporting their creative industries so they can exploit new technology.In his interim report in January, Carter made a series of proposals on topics ranging from giving universal access to broadband by 2012 and ensuring that people know how to use digital technology, to stopping illegal filesharing and securing the future of Channel 4 as a public service alternative to the BBC.His final report is expected to lead to new legislationthat will introduce changes to the media ownership regime for television, radio and regional newspaper companies, allowing them to merge in order to meet the challenges of the internet and other digital technologies.Carter's Digital Britain project also aims to change the way that mobile phone companies deal with radio spectrum in order to push mobile broadband into rural areas, where existing infrastructure cannot deliver fast internet connections.Much of the summit, which Carter had promised would take place when he published his interim report, will be taken up with the question of so-called digital inclusion.The average British adult spends almost half of all their waking hours using the services of the communications sector, but some parts of the population are being left behind.The summit, to be held at the British Library, will also include contributions from the BT chief executive, Ian Livingston, and his counterpart at Virgin Media, Neil Berkett, both of whom have committed to rolling out faster broadband services in the UK, as well as the Trinity Mirror chief executive, Sly Bailey.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Alicehas just reminded me thatHabbo HotelcreatorsSulakehave released a new "pocketsize" virtual world, for mobile phones. The hugely successful Finnish company, whose Habbo has over 129m accounts registered, are currentlybeta testingBobba, available for the Nokia N-series and the iPhone. At the moment, information is thin, but the screenshots suggest an avatar-led social space, in which players cancreatetheir own spaces and chat with other users.We've been waiting for a successful mobile phone version of a virtual world for a long time; perhaps Bobba's time has come.updated with some corrections sent in from Sulake!
&bull; Heard all that stuff about the video games industry being "recession proof"? Turns out it might have been phooey - according to a study of US sales by NPD,video game sales for last month were down 17%on the same period last year. VentureBeat points outthe so-called Easter effect- but any way you look at it, it's not good news.&bull; Google's financial resultsturned out OK, but one of the questions left hanging was about YouTube's health. Is ithaemorrhaging cash? As if to answer its critics, everyone's favourite sneezing panda website unveiled plans to try making money bysigning a deal with Sony Pictures. Translation:old films and movies, withmore in-stream adverts&bull; And, before you go, here's something for the weekend - though you may need to prepare yourself for some serious geekage. Earlier this month Joel at BoingBoing Gadgets posted a "dork yearbook" - pictures of the nerdiest kids on earth. It's only gone andspawned a new blog, hasn't it? Lookit all them pictures!You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
After several weeks of hearings and a period of deliberation, we're due to hear the verdict in thetrial of the Pirate Bayby noon on Friday.The basic thrust of the arguments hasn't really changed: prosecutors say that the four accused have profited from promoting copyright infringement through the Pirate Bay website, while the defence response is to argue that the site merely provides a neutral search service that is essentially no different from Google.Despite the ups and downs of the trial, it's not clear how it's going to play out. Both sides are talking up their chances - the Pirate Bay say they are"quite confident", while last week a spokesman for the IFPI (which has pushed the prosecution) told me he was optimistic - and there's little indication of what direction the judge in the case might go.On his blog one of the accused, Peter Sunde Kolmisoppi, says thatthe group will respond to the verdict at an online press conferenceat 12pm GMT:We decided to just say no to all media because it's not fair to just talk to the big ones (or even just talk to the small ones). We decided to just have a press conference tomorrow at 13.00 CET, onbambuser. That way, everybody can participate, no matter how big they are, or if they're even media or not.This, of course, assumes that the quartet escape theyear-long prison sentence that prosecutors have lobbied for, as well as fines of nearly £100,000. Oh, and that's not forgetting the £8.7m in fines that Hollywood lawyers have argued should also be imposed.Keep your eyes peeled: we'll be bringing you the news and reaction as it happens.
Google, the internet giant, has seen its quarter on quarter revenues fall for the first time in five years - although it managed to increase profits, helped in part by the recovery of its UK business.Announcing its latest results yesterday, the search engine and advertising business, shrugged off the worst effects of the recession by announcing that it generated $1.42bn (&pound;952m) in net income from revenues of $5.5bn for the first three months of the year."Google had a good quarter given the depth of the recession," said Eric Schmidt, its chief executive. "These results underline the resilience of our business ... and the ongoing potential of the web as users and advertisers shift online."In its previous filing in January, Google highlighted the difficulties it was experiencing in Britain - its second-biggest market - as the pound dropped in value against the dollar and advertising rates came under fire.But Patrick Pichette, the chief financial officer, said yesterday the company had managed to increase UK earnings by 7% over the previous quarter through better management of currency fluctuations.With UK revenues at $733m, Pichette said growth was "the normal pattern for the UK", although there was "not as much as prior years due to the weakness in travel and finance". Thanks in part to that recovery, the company said it was promoting London-based executive Nikesh Arora, who is set to become the company's sales chief after running its UK and European business for the past four years.Arora's promotion comes as Google continues to shake up its advertising and sales teams. Its current head of global sales, Omid Kordestani, will be moving into an advisory role, weeks after the departure of Tim Armstrong, Google's former head of advertising, to become the chief executive of its internet rivalAOL.Google's figures were more or less in line with Wall Street's expectations, with revenues down slightly from the previous quarter, but posting a modest gain on the same time last year. Profits were almost static from the previous three months, but up 6% on the first quarter of 2008.The California internet giant also gave investors a boost by announcing that it had driven cashflow up to more than $2bn and now had almost $18bn in the bank.Wall Street reacted positively to the news, with Google's shares rising by around 5% in after-hours trading, although by the end of the session this fell back to a rise of 0.5%.• This article was amended on Friday 17 April 2009. In the headline of the article above we said that UK business helped Google increase its second quarter profits. We meant first quarter profits. This has been corrected.
Nokia, the world's largest mobile phone manufacturer, saw profits plunge more than 90% in the first three months of the year as cash-strapped consumers held on to their existing handsets.The Finnish company, which last month announced plans to cut 1,700 jobs, also saw a drop in sales of its feature-rich smartphones as consumers opted for Apple's iPhone and touchscreen devices made by rivals such as Samsung and HTC.Nokia's first touchscreen phone, the 5800 XpressMusic, went on sale in late November - more than a year after the iPhone appeared - and while it has since sold more than 3m, its Nseries multimedia handsets are flagging.Nokia sold 13.7m smartphones in the first three months of the year, down from 14.6m in the first quarter 2008 and 15.1m over Christmas. It only sold 5m Nseries devices - such as the N95 and N96 - in the first quarter, fewer than it had hoped.But despite the company reporting its lowest profit for more than a decade, chief executive Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo seemed to be calling the bottom of the market yesterday, saying retailers have almost run down their supplies and will have to start buying again.The company cheered investors by repeating its forecast that total mobile phone sales will be down 10% this year at just over 1bn devices, rather than predicting an ever sharper fall. Kallasvuo added that the 5800 XpressMusic was the company's top revenue and gross margin generating product and the company is now shipping more than a million each month.In total Nokia shipped 93.2m mobile handsets in the first three months of the year, representing a decline of 19% year on year and 18% on the Christmas quarter. The company estimates that the industry as a whole sold 255m phones in the first quarter, down 14% on the year and a 16% drop compared with the last quarter of 2008."The lower sales volumes for Nokia and the industry were primarily driven by the negative impact of the rapidly deteriorating global economic conditions, including weaker consumer and corporate spending, severely constrained credit availability and unprecedented currency market volatility," the company said.Many budget-conscious consumers are holding on to their handsets and switching to cheaper SIM-only deals. The drop in sales of high-end smartphones coupled with intense competition saw the average selling price of a Nokia phone fall to &euro;65 (&pound;57) in the three months to the end of March, from &euro;79 a year ago.Declining prices coupled with worsening losses from Nokia's networks business, which sells mobile phone masts and other equipment to mobile operators, pushed first-quarter operating profits down to &euro;55m, down from &euro;1.5bn in the previous year. Net profit was &euro;122m, down from &euro;1.2bn. Total sales were down 27% to just under &euro;9.3bn.
Until recently, it was considered impressive to have more than 50,000 followers on Twitter, and that's still far beyondmost of us. With the influx of new users, however, the numbers following celebrities and some news outlets have exploded, and two of the leaders --Ashton KutcherandCNN-- arenow in a raceto become the first with a million followers.Since the event has turned into a spectator sport, The Huffington Post has provided aconstantly updated ChartBeat graphicto show the race.Ashton Kutcher -- Mr Demi Moore, if you like -- will be live on Oprah's TV show tomorrow, whenOprahwill also make her first tweet, saysThe Oprah blog. Oprah is new to Twitter and has picked up more than 32,000 followers without making a single update.It's also not clear whether Oprah will tweet on her own behalf after that. It may be something her people do on her behalf.Britney Spears also has more than 900,000 followers, while Stephen Fry is in 33rd place with 417,540.As Bobbie Johnson has reportedbelow, CNN has only just taken over the@CNNbrkaccount, which was started by London-based web developer James Cox.Update: Ashton Kutcher won, but it was a close-run thing.
Internet advertising giantGooglehas continued to shrug off the worst effects of the recession by posting stronger financial results than expected for the first quarter of this year.Releasing its latest figures today, Google said  it generated income of $1.88bn in the three months  to the end of March, from a total of $5.5bn in revenues.While operating income is down slightly from the last quarter of 2008, the figures were  6% higher than in  the same  period last year. Chief  executive Eric Schmidt said he was happy with the company's performance given the state of the market."Google had a good quarter given the depth of the recession," he said. "While revenues were down quarter over quarter, they grew 6% year over year, thanks to continued strong query growth.""These results underline both the resilience of our business model and the ongoing potential of the web as users and advertisers shift online," he added.Across the board, the company saw the same pattern emerging: numbers dipped slightly from the previous three months – which covered the usually-lucrative Christmas quarter – but they also marked slight growth compared to the same time last year.The performance was largely in line with conservative expectations from Wall Street, although the Californian internet giant also boosted its standing by announcing that it had driven cashflow up to more than $2bn and now had almost $18bn in cash and equivalents on hand.The company underscored its growing reliance on the international market by confirming that more than half of  its revenue comes from outside the United States, with Britain a particularly important market. It announced  that London-based executive Nikesh Arora, who has been running the company's international business, would be taking over as the company's senior vice president of worldwide sales.Although Google has largely fought off the worst impact of the recession – which has forced many of its Silicon Valley rivals to make swingeing cutbacks – it is far from immune.The relatively static figures come despite the fact that the company has further extended its lead over search engine rivalsYahooandMicrosoft, and executives have already stressed the need to focus on the company's core products.Earlier this year it shut down a number of smaller projects and laid off 100 workers, as it moved to end a hiring binge that had seen it grow from a staff of 3,000 in 2004 to more than 20,000 today.And while the results were welcomed by financial analysts, some are now openly questioning the long-term value of large brands such asYouTube.A recent report from Credit Suisse estimated that the video sharing site could lose as much as $470m this year, with Google consistently struggling to sell advertising space against more than 90% of the site's content.However Schmidt said that  Google would continue to invest heavily – including in areas of the business it believed were not yet mature."Our priority remains investing for the long term to drive future growth in our core and emerging businesses," he said.Shares in Google rose around 5% in after hours trading on the back of the news.
It may be time to dump one of the canards of the technology world - that Macs are safe from viruses. Earlier this year,reports of a possible Mac attackstarted appearing but now experts have confirmed that malware targeting Apple is out in the wild - and that it works.After an initial spot by Intego in January, Symantec researchers Mario Ballano Barcena and Alfredo Pesoli have gone on to examine two Trojans - the snappily-titled OSX.Iservice and OSX.Iservice.B - and describe the way they can insert themselves on Apple machines to set up a botnet.The malware was apparently hidden inside dodgy copies of iWork and Photoshop that had been planted online, meaning that anyone who downloaded the infected torrent (which, it has to be noted, is illegal) could potentially be at risk.You can't read theactual paperunless you're a subscriber to Virus Bulletin, but there's more detail atZDNetandthe Register.The impact of this discovery? That's debatable: it's impossible at the moment to discover whether anybody else is infected, and it's unclear whether these attacks could spread. Plus it doesn't mean that every piece of malware that we see on Windows machines could potentially hook in Apple users too.But the short term effect, at least, is more straightforward. It's time for Apple users to start thinking seriously about malware. Oh, and it's perfect flamebait for Windows fans who feel like taking a pop at their mortal enemies.
CBC News is reporting "the first known attempt to create a botnet of Mac computers," based on work by two Symantec researchers published in the April 2009 issue of Virus Bulletin.CBC says:Researchers at Symantec say the Trojan, called OSX.Iservice, hid itself in pirated versions of the Apple application iWork '09 and the Mac version of Adobe Photoshop CS4 that were shared on a popular peer-to-peer bittorrent network.Once downloaded, the applications themselves worked normally, but the Trojan opens a "back door" on the compromised computer that allows it to begin contacting other hosts in its peer-to-peer network for commands.The attempted attack also took place in January. However, it wasn't a very sophisticated Trojan, and the story says: "the iBotnet, as the Symantec researchers have dubbed it, spread to only a few thousand computers before it was identified. A number of security firms say removal of the Trojan is simple once it has been identified."Apple sells so few PCs that they have been seen as too small a target to be worth the effort, especially now that malware development and distribution is a large commercial business:Kevin Haley, director of Symantec Security Response, said cybercriminals who want to create a botnet of computers traditionally attack machines running Microsoft's Windows operating system because the goal is to have the biggest network possible."It's a numbers game," said Haley. "If you're going to go after the largest market, you have to go after the largest target."But there are opportunities.The Register reported todaythat security flaws exposed at theCanSecWestconference have not been patched yet:H Security reports on a series of actively exploited vulnerabilities in Apple's Mac OS X operating system that remain unpatched. A vulnerability in mounting malformed HFS disk images creates a privilege elevation risk, allowing regular users to obtain root privilegesOther exploits involving kernel system vulnerabilities create a means for hackers to crash vulnerable systems. Lastly, another unpatched flaw in AppleTalk poses a system crash (though not code injection) risk.The Register also coveredthe botnet story.
Gartnerhas released estimated sales figures for this year's first quarter, and sales have held up better than expected. Worldwide PC shipments of 67.2 million units suffered a decline of 6.5%, but a bigger decline had been predicted.The main news is that Dell's market share dropped by 16.9% -- almost 2m PC shipments -- leaving the company level-pegging with Acer, which enjoyed 26.7% growth. Dell's problem is that it sells mostly to businesses, and they're cutting back. Acer, by contrast, shipped tons of Acer Aspire One netbooks to consumers.The Top 5 worldwide was headed by Hewlett-Packard (13.3m sales, 19.8% market share), followed by Dell (13.1%), Acer (13.0%), Lenovo (6.6%) and Toshiba (5.5%).US sales were stronger than expected, with shipments of 15.3m units representing a decline of just 0.3%. However, Dell's 16.3% decline cost it market leadership, with HP taking over the top spot for the first time since 2001. Acer did very well in the US, with shipments growing by 49.4%, but Apple's shipments fell by 1.1%. This represented a loss in market share of 0.1% -- but I don't think the numbers are that accurate.The US Top 5 was headed by Hewlett-Packard (4.2m sales, 27.7% market share), followed by Dell (26.2%), Acer (13.6%), Apple (7.4%) and Toshiba (6.6%).A few people with long memories may recall that the US market used to be headed by Apple, followed by IBM and Compaq. IBM's PC business is now owned by Lenovo and Compaq has been swallowed up in Hewlett-Packard.The enlarged European market is now significantly bigger than the US market, and it did worse, with shipments falling by 10.1% compared with the same quarter last year. Dell's shipments fell by 25.4%, leaving the US company a long way behind Acer.The European Top 5 was headed by Hewlett-Packard (4.8m sales, 21.0% market share), followed by Acer (19.5%), Dell (9.3%), Toshiba (6.5%) and Asus (4.1%).Gartner says:In the first quarter of 2009, all regions in the EMEA PC market exhibited weak or declining growth. In Western Europe, the three largest countries saw declining growth with growth in Germany and France showing low single digits and the UK experiencing the worst decline. Central Eastern Europe was particularly affected with Russia, Ukraine and Baltic countries shrinking by around 25%.In the rest of the world, 18.2m PCs were shipped in the Asia/Pacific region, 3.6m in Japan, and 5.5m in Latin America.IDC has released similar figuresfor the worldwide and US markets: it reckons they were down by 7.1% and 3.1% respectively. IDC comments:While concern over the global recession and the fear of rising unemployment continues to weigh on commercial spending and consumer confidence, PC demand has nevertheless remained somewhat resilient compared to the last downturn. Falling prices, fueled in part by Mini Notebook PCs and added efforts in channel development, have helped to minimize the market contraction.IDC expects growth to return "around the end of the year".
Nokia, the world's largest mobile phone manufacturer, saw profits plunge more than 90% in the first three months of the year as cash-strapped consumers held onto their existing handsets.The Finnish company, whichlast month announced plans to cut 1,700 jobs, saw the average selling price of its phones fall to €65 (£57) in the three months to end March, from €71 over Christmas and €79 a year ago, as it failed  to shift stock and consumers shied away from its expensive N series multimedia devices.Despite the company reporting its lowest profit for over a decade, chief executive Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo said there is light at the end of the tunnel because retailers are running down their supplies and will have to start buying again."The inventory already in the sales channels decreased substantially during the first quarter due to extensive destocking by operators and distributors," he said. "This adversely impacted our sales volumes in the quarter. However, it has also resulted in the demand picture becoming more predictable as we enter the second quarter."As a result, the company cheered investors by repeating its forecast that total mobile phone sales will be down 10% this year at just over 1bn devices. The company has reduced its forecasts twice in the past five months and there were fears that it could do so again. Nokia shares were up more than 7% at lunchtime.Nokia shipped 93.2m mobile phones in the first three months of the year, representing a decline of 19% year on year and 18% on the Christmas quarter. The company estimates that the industry as a whole sold 255m phones in the first quarter, down 14% on the year and a 16% drop compared with the last quarter of 2008.As a result, Nokia reckons its share of the market for the first quarter was 37%, compared with 39% in the comparable quarter in 2008 and 37% in the fourth quarter of 2008. The decline was driven primarily by lower market share in Latin America, the Middle East, Africa, Asia-Pacific and China. That was partly offset by a slightly higher market share in North America and Europe. Nokia reiterated its ambition to increase its market share this year."The lower sales volumes for Nokia and the industry, both year on year and sequentially, were primarily driven by the negative impact of the rapidly deteriorating global economic conditions, including weaker consumer and corporate spending, severely constrained credit availability and unprecedented currency market volatility," the company said.Losing out to iPhoneNokia said it shipped 5m N series phones in the quarter, a lower figure than expected. Devices such as the N95 and N96 have been losing out in the lucrativesmartphone categoryto the iPhone, which has sold more than 17m worldwide, and touchscreen phones from makers such as Samsung and HTC. Nokia's response to the Apple device,the 5800 XpressMusic, was finally launched in late November. Nokia sold 2.6m 5800s, its first  touchscreen device, in the first quarter, taking sales since launch to more than 3m units.As a result of the 5800's success, Nokia's first quarter sales were  slightly higher than some analysts had been expecting. Gartner research director Carolina Milanesi, who had been predicting that Nokia would sell between 89m and 91m phones, said "the 5800 was an important driver in the smartphone category"."Although the market remained very challenging, the good news is that it is showing some signs that it is stabilising," she added. "This is confirmed by the fact that Nokia did not change its outlook for the year,  which remains at -10%. Although this is slightly more pessimistic than our view, we are encouraged that Nokia did not revise the number in line with some of the financial analysts' reports that see the market falling between -15% and -20%."Overall Nokia reported a first quarter operating profit of €55m, down from €1.5bn in the previous year, as its networks division, which sells mobile phone masts and other equipment to mobile operators, plunged deep into the red. Net profit was €122m, down from €1.2bn. Total sales were down 27% to just under €9.3bn.Nokia's results follow awarning last month from Sony Ericsson, the world's fourth-largest mobile phone maker, that sales had slumped since Christmas. In the first three months of this year, the company estimated it would sell less than half the number of phones it sold in the same period last year.
Devotees of the Xbox Live Arcade and PC puzzlerBraidare soon to have more for their bucks; developer Jonathan Blow has announced that players will soon be able to create and share their own levels for the game.He's released a toolkit on theOfficial Braid blog, so if you have the inclination and the desire to keep your braid experience going after the endgame, download and get designing! Don't forget to let us know what you've done so we can feature it here.He'll also be releasing the engine so proto-game designers (and fully fledged ones as well) can create their own worlds, with their own levels, sounds and graphics. Cheers Jon!ViaIndiegames
It's a funny old thing, the awards ceremony. At this year'sIndependent Game Festival's sell-out show, the latest game from Samorost developersAmanita Design,Machinarium, won Excellence in Visual Art. Based on the video below, you might argue that their award was rightly deserved. But perhaps a game that had actually been released, like the UK's ownCletus Clay, should have got the gong?Nevertheless, check out the latest preview screenies and vid from what we expect will be another scorcher from Amanita.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; An interesting day for some of the big technology companies: while Googleprepares to announceits latest financial results, it is apparently going to be joined by IBM, Nokia and Oracle as participants in the European Commission's antitrust case against Microsoft.That's according to the FT.&bull; The confusion and fallout fromAmazonFailis continuing to, well, confuse and fall out. Best reactions so far? In a superbly-written essay, a contriteClay Shirkyexplainshow he was sucked in and considers the emergence of social media mobs. Meanwhile the BBC's Bill Thompsonwades inand our own head of community, Meg Pickard, has aconsidered take on things.&bull; Here's one I from last week that I can't believe I missed (and thanks toSlashdotfor surfacing it): US scientists have developedcurved lasers that could bring thunderclouds under control. That isat leastseven shades of superb. Maybe more.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
I'm thinking about getting a netbook, and I'm just about to take a trip to Tokyo. Should I wait and buy there?Gerry G OdonovanJapan is generally expensive and was late into netbooks, so they mostly have the same models as us at similar prices. An Asus Eee 1000H, for example, goes for about ¥39,000 (£260), and you'd also be charged VAT to bring it into the UK. You can check prices atGoogle.co.jpeven if you can't read the Japanese text.There are other problems with buying a computer abroad. First, it's unlikely to have a UK keyboard, operating system or manual, and it won't have a UK mains plug. (These are less of a problem when buying in the US.) Second, you may have trouble getting repairs or support, unless the machine has an international guarantee card. And you won't be able to take it back to the shop.
Are sites such as freebookspot.ws – which provide links to thousands of books to download – actually in breach of copyright?Paul FoyFreebookspot.ws, like many other websites and bulletin boards, carries links to files that users have uploaded to storage sites such as Rapidshare. It's a safe bet that, where copyright restrictions apply, these have been uploaded without the express permission of the copyright owner. The Freebookspot site says: "No files are hosted on our server, they are only indexed much like how Google works." I am not a lawyer, but I would expect it to remove links if the copyright owner complained.The situation persists because there are too many files in too many places for the copyright owners to get them all removed. In the UK, internet service providers are now obliged to keep logs of what users do, and there is also the idea of having a Rights Agency to tackle copyright infringement. Whether persistent infringers will end up in court or have their internet connections blocked remains to be seen: last week, France's attempt to bring in a law to cut off repeat offenders was rejected 21-15, perhaps because it was unpopular with voters.There are lots of reputable sites where users can download ebooks legally, such asProject Gutenberg, theUniversal Libraryand theUniversity of Virginia's ebook library.
How can I find out if I can legitimately distribute commercial music on the net? I have a collection of 78s issued before the first world war - one of the artistes died in 1915. I'd like to share them on the web, but do not want to infringe copyright rules.John LoaderThe UK Copyright Service has ahelpful pagethat explains the copyright situation, and a fact sheet,Seeking Permission. Recordings have both music copyrights, for the score and lyrics etc, and a performance copyright in the recording. The latter lasts for 50 years, so you're ok.
