It could pay to be sceptical next time you check your inbox, according to research which suggests that people are more likely to lie in an email than in other forms of communication.Experts have long known that it is easier to lie in writing than in real life, where deception is made more difficult by physical prompts such as eye contact.But psychological tests conducted by business professors at Rutgers, Lehigh and DePaul universities in the US found people are significantly more likely to lie in emails than in handwritten documents.In the tests, 48 students were given $89 and told to split it with somebody they didn't know and who had little idea how much money was up for grabs.A total of 92% of the students lied when dividing the money over email, while 64% lied when asked to write by hand.In most cases the subjects claimed the pot of money was smaller than $89, but said they would share it evenly with their correspondent and pocketed the difference.Emailers ended up handing over an average of $29 - keeping $60 for themselves - while pen-and-paper negotiators gave up $34 and kept $55 for their own pocket.In a second test of 69 students, subjects were asked to split the money with somebody they knew. In this case the incidence of lying was reduced - although not entirely eliminated."People seem to feel more justified in acting in self-serving ways when typing as opposed to writing," said co-author Terri Kurtzberg, an associate professor at Rutgers Business School in New Jersey.The paper, Being Honest Online, published at the annual meeting of the Academy of Management in California, suggests people feel they have more capacity to mislead when using hi-tech communication than with more traditional methods, said the researchers behind the study.Another co-author warned that businesses should be particularly careful when dealing with email."There is a growing concern in the workplace over email communications, and it comes down to trust," said Liuba Belkin, an assistant professor at Lehigh University in Pennsylvania."You're not afforded the luxury of seeing non-verbal and behavioural cues over email, and in an organisational context that leaves a lot of room for misinterpretation and - as we saw in our study - intentional deception."
Amazon got a head start in the cloud computing arena by launchingAmazon EC2(Elastic Compute Cloud) where people can run applications without having to buy their own servers or set up their own networks. Now, says Amazon'sWerner Vogels:Withtoday's announcementthat Microsoft Windows Server is available on Amazon EC2 we can now run the majority of popular software systems in the cloud. Windows Server ranked very high on the list of requests by customers so we are happy that we will be able to provide this.Vogels adds: "In past weeks I met with a number of folks from the entertainment industry and often their first question was: when can we run on Windows?" These folks have WMV videos, which makes me wonder if Amazon is going to support porn sites, where WMV is the standard.He also says: "several customers would like to maintain a global single Windows-based desktop environment using Microsoft Remote Desktop". I sincerely hope you never have to work for a company that thinks this is a good idea….While Amazon may assure us it is responding to customer demand, the fact is, the customer demand isn't new. However, what is new is that Microsoft is about to unveil a rival service, running Windows for Cloud Computing (unless they come up with a zappier name for a "hypothetical Microsoft service possibly called Red Dog, or possibly not").Suffice it to say, if you are going to Microsoft'sProfessional Developers Conferencein Los Angeles (October 27-30), then you'll be one of the first to see the Windows Cloud, as well as getting a free copy of Windows 7.As I alsopointed out earlierthis year in the context of Live Mesh:Providing what is, in effect, an operating system for the web is going to take a lot of computer power, and Microsoft is building several $500m data centres. It has opened one near Seattle, is building others in Chicago and San Antonio, and plans one in Dublin. This is serious.Providing cloud services makes sense if you are already in the business of running giant server farms, as both Amazon and Google are. It isn't Microsoft's prime business, but it does run server farms to support Hotmail, Spaces, SkyDrive, Office Live and similar services, Microsoft Search, and Windows Update. It's also getting into the business of doing hosted CRM and Microsoft Exchange services, so it probably does have the economies of scale to be competitive.However, I don't expect Microsoft's offering to be cheap, for three reasons.First, I expect it will want to market the service via resellers and partners, so they get a cut of the profits; that adds to the price.Second, Microsoft won't want to make its offering so attractive that it makes a serious dent in corporate sales of server software.Third, it will be a Microsoft-based solution backed by Microsoft's huge cash resources, so it has the ability to squeeze rivals on price. It will therefore try hard not to do this, in order to stop the US Justice Department and EC from jumping on its neck. (Anti-trust actions are great for keeping prices up and adding to Microsoft's profits.)
Apple has announced that it's lifting the non-disclosure agreement on released iPhone software.Here's the dirt:We put the NDA in place because the iPhone OS includes many Apple inventions and innovations that we would like to protect, so that others don't steal our work. It has happened before. While we have filed for hundreds of patents on iPhone technology, the NDA added yet another level of protection. We put it in place as one more way to help protect the iPhone from being ripped off by others.But there was a downside..However, the NDA has created too much of a burden on developers, authors and others interested in helping further the iPhone's success, so we are dropping it for released software. Developers will receive a new agreement without an NDA covering released software within a week or so. Please note that unreleased software and features will remain under NDA until they are released.And let's not forget how it came about:Thanks to everyone who provided us constructive feedback on this matter.Where in this case "constructive feedback" would be "telling Apple to drop the NDA". (In one case, through asite's name- which now shows the relief on developers', um, web faces.)This also means that thebook that was planned on developing for the iPhonecan go ahead - and that at least one London company that was planning to offer an iPhone development course, and would otherwise have had to have signed its students to NDAs themselves before they could come in, can breathe a bit easier.This is separate, of course, from the"mysterious methods used to choose which software can and can't go onto the iPhone App Store", which hasn't stopped riling developers. Apple came back to me a week after my initial enquiry as to what its policy was, to say that it was "still awaiting clarification from the US". Possibly that will be the next one to be crystallised into something more helpful. Though we're not, as ever, holding our breath.
I've been away away away for the past few weeks and have therefore had little to no time to tell you all about the release ofOperation Sleeper Cell, an alternate reality game made by a team of game development novices for under $1000 in aid ofCancer Research UK.The project, started by Adrian &amp; Dan Hon ofSix to Start(they who madeWe Tell Stories,Frozen Indigo Angeland others), took just over a year fromannouncement(rememberLet's Change the Game?)to release. And to date - just weeks after launch - they've made well over £950 for cancer research. Go team.From the website:The Agency need your help. They've teamed up with Cancer Research UK to thwart an evil organisation cunningly named 'E.V.I.L'.Your mission is to unlock various sleeper cells hidden many years ago and represented as a square on the grid. Given the right amount of cash you can kick the cells back into action. Some will give you a mission, some contain special operations and live events, but every one will help us and Cancer Research UK in our mission.Expect puzzles, live events and challenges, plus ways to make donating to a good cause fun and engaging. Think games can change the world? So do we. Congrats to the Operation Sleeper Cell developers,Law 37! Stay tuned fore more as it arises.
It's Chatterbox Wednesday time!
You may have heard ofRay Kurzweil, the inventor and futurist. It's fair to say he's got a different approach on life: he thinks the singularity - a theoretical moment of supreme technological advance, precipitated by artificial intelligence - is set to arrive in 2045. That's why the 60-year-old New Yorkerpops up to 210 pills a dayin an attempt to extend his lifespan until the moment when the singularity arrives and suddenly cures cancer, makes us live forever and works out where the TV remote went.Kevin Kelly, the Wired editor at large, says he admires Kurzweil but makes awell-argued rebuttal to what he calls "thinkism". This is, Kelly says, where we believe the main thing we lack in solving problems isnot being able to think enough. So, if we put enough cycles in we can find the answer to anything: a sufficiently advanced AI would have more think cycles than all of humanity combined, therefore any problem you can imagine would be solved in a jiffy.The problem? Sometimes thinking isn't enough. Getting there might require data that had been previously unable to get, or the building of complex tools - machines like theLarge Hadron Collider. Andthattakes a lot of time and effort. Even if the singularity arrives, it won't solve everything instantaneously because we've still got to build the tools to help give us the answers.It's a cogent take on technological utopianism. But I've always had a more straightforward problem with Kurzweil's thinking: if a massively superior artificial intelligence did arise, why on earth would it waste its time improving things for the human race?
Mac Pro, le pépin toxique pour Apple?asks French newspaper, Liberation (Babelfish translation). Strong-smelling Mac Pros have been discussed onApple forums, but an anonymous CNRS researcher (a molecular biologist) went to Greenpeace. Greenpeace got Analytica involved, and then Inéris, France's national institute covering the industrial environment. Apparently benzene is a component of the smell, and this could be risky. Liberation says:«Le benzène peut avoir des effets sur la moelle osseuse. Imaginons qu'une personne travaille huit heures par jour pendant deux mois en inspirant de telles vapeurs, des personnes sensibles pourraient très bien développer des leucémies», affirme Annie Leszkowicz, experte en risque chimique auprès de l'Agence française de sécurité sanitaire de l'environnement et du travail.Over time, sensitive people could develop leukaemias, she says.Unconfirmed stories suggest the problem Mac Pros have been built in China, not at Apple's European factory in Cork. If so, the risk could affect few or no UK users.Note, we're not talking about an ordinary "new equipment" aroma.The original poster atMacRumourssaid his new 3.0 Mac Pro Octostinks to high heaven. It's a plastic-burning type smell, seems almost toxic, the smell coming out the back fan. I have to shut it down and leave the room every few hours to air it out, it's that bad. I've heard about the "new mac smell" and had a tiny taste of it with a new macbook last summer, but this is different -- it's intense, nauseating, and makes you feel funny. Friends and neighbors have agreed: this can't be good.Another postersaid: "It takes longer now to produce the problem, but after running about 2 hours the Mac Pro stinks like he did before. It is so intense that you can't stay in the room."There's a difference between something being smelly, which is unpleasant, and being a health risk, which is serious. Time for Apple to respond, don't you think?An Apple Core reader, also anonymous, says atZD Net:I invite all Mac Pro owners around the world to send a letter to Apple and ask them which Mac Pro have the toxicity problem, in written form. If Apple doesn't change its methods very fast, a class-action lawsuit may unfortunately be the next step…
Googie is offering, for one month only, your chance to spin back to those halcyon days before stock markets crashed around everyone's ears, when lawsuits against people accused of peer-to-peer filesharing were plentiful, and there was more than one bank on the high street where you could put your savings.Yes, it's letting you spin the wheel of fortune, fame and chance back to 2001, when it had a measly 1.36bn pages to search from. (Now? Too many to count, apparently.)Why 2001? Why not 1998? Because,says the FAQ, "for various technical reasons that are too boring to go into, earlier versions of our index aren't readily accessible. But we did still want to offer users a chance to search an older index as a way of looking back at web history, and the January 2001 index is the best we can do. We hope you enjoy it."And so it goes...According to the Google blog,hidden in a corner beneath Larry's and Sergey's original lab coats, we found a vintage search index in mint condition. We dusted it off and took it for a spin, gobsmacked to see how different the web was in early 2001. "iPod" did not refer to a music player, "youtube" was nonsense, and if you were looking for "Michael Phelps," chances are you meant the scientist, not the swimmer. "Wikipedia" was brand new. Remember "hanging chads"?Or indeed, remember the hubris ofthis deal? Or the design horror ofthis page? Or thisslowly sinking hulk?You can do the searching - set up in association with the Internet Archive - atGoogle's 2001 search. Basically, the way to do it is to do a search and choose "View this in the 2001 archive".We were already hard at work with theGuardian weblog, though the archive seems to think that the Onlineblog - which preceded this one -didn't start until 2002. (We beg to differ.)But that's the thing about the past - it's never the same as the last time you looked at it.
We're about five minutes into the current generation of platforms. Most developers have squeezed out there first PS3 projects, they've done the obligatory interviews (blah blah, interesting architecture, blah blah, really quite difficult, blah blah, improved SDK, etc), they've had a bash at Wii ("hey, lets do a collection of fun mini-games!") and they're really quite settled on Xbox 360. Everything is going well. Sales of software are good, installed user bases are rocketing, people are really loving videogames - they feel they have truly cutting edge equipment beneath their HD TVs.Except they don't. Because here come the next next-gen rumours...A successor to Wii isapparentlyalready being touted round developers, ahead of a planned 2011 launch. Imaginatively nicknamed 'Wii HD', it will apparently represent a similar technological leap as the one from Game Boy to Game Boy Advance. Erm, intriguing...Meanwhile,rumours are coming out of Japanthat Sony is considering re-using the Cell processor in PS4, due out in 2010. In a bid to save some cash, it may be that the next iteration is more of a shuffle forward than a technological leap into the future - a sort of Gamecube to Wii transition. Ooh.Hang on, doesn't the appeal of Wii (or so one millionover-excited featureshave told me) rest in its simplicity, its stubborn refusal to clamber aboard the technology bullet train, its impish laugh in the face of Moore's law? And isn't PS3 on aten yearcycle?Research and Development is, by its very nature, an endless process, but right now, do you care about the next generation? Are you happy with what you have?
Why haveone mapwhen you can have two? Courtesy of Oxyweb, here's amap of the most popular social network in each country around the world.Anyone who follows the rise and fall of social nets will notice a few recognisable bits of information - Facebook's growing domination, Friendster's continuing popularity in south east Asia and Hi-5's stronghold in central America.The big surprises? MySpace is only top dog in the US and Bebo's number one in Ireland. Still, the data's taken from the mercurial traffic serviceAlexa- so it needs more than a few pinches of salt.
Straight after unveiling itsRealDVDsoftware, which lets users copy copy-protected movies to their PC hard drives, RealNetworks launched apre-emptive lawsuitagainst the DVD Copy Control Association and the major studios, asking a federal court to declare it was legal. The Motion Picture Association of America, however, claims thatRealDVD violates the DMCAbecause it circumvents the Content Scramble System (CSS) meant to prevent copying.It's not all that simple, because Real copies the CSS along with the movie, then adds its own DRM (digital rights management) to limit copying to a maximum of five computers.But that doesn't satisfy the MPAA because it still enables users to rip movies they've rented and play them without the original DVD. "RealNetworks' RealDVD should be called StealDVD," says Greg Goeckner, the MPAA's lawyer, adding:"RealNetworks knows its product violates the law and undermines the hard-won trust that has been growing between America's movie makers and the technology community."Shocking eh? I can feel my hard-won trust in the movie industry crumbling already, though I can't say I trust RealNetworks either….DVD ripping is not exactly an unknown sport, of course, without the use of Real's $50 (reduced to $30) software. ButArs Technicahas covered the case, and observes:Does Real pose any more of a threat? Possibly, due to its name recognition, though at 40 minutes and 6GB of hard drive space per DVD rip, we're not convinced that the DVD apocalypse has truly arrived and that the blood will soon flow in the streets to the height of a horse's bridle.Somehow I suspect that most movie rippers will prefer something that's a bit more economical with hard drive space….
Vinton Gray "Vint" Cerf is a very distinguished, kindly, silver-haired gentleman in a three-piece suit, so perhaps I shouldn't expect him to ride to our rescue with six guns blazing, but I'd settle for a small pearl-handled silver pistol. I want to know who is going to clean up the internet now that it's full of scammers, spammers and criminals running zombie networks, while its connecting pipes are clogged up with porn-to-porn file swapping.Sadly, Cerf doesn't have a silver bullet, either. "It's every man for himself," he says, grinning. "In the end, it seems every machine has to defend itself. The internet was designed that way."Aiming highAnd he should know. In the early 1970s, Cerf co-designed the TCP/IP protocol suite on which internet communications are based, and was founding president of the Internet Society.He led the team that engineered the first email service to run over the internet; he chaired Icann, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers; and he has been working with Nasa's Jet Propulsion Laboratory on the Interplanetary Internet (bit.ly/vint2). It may be a case of "tomorrow, the stars", but the here-and-now can seem a bit of a mess.Cerf points out that "like every medium, the internet can be abused. When we think about it, we can commit fraud locally and internationally using the telephone system and postal service. We can perpetrate a variety of crimes, and in every instance where we have had a technology like that, ultimately society has said: 'There are certain constraints, certain behaviours we will consider to be antisocial. We may not be able to prevent this happening, but we will choose to have consequences if we catch you.'"This question comes up annually at the internet governance meetings. So I won't be surprised if there are national and international agreements reached about certain unacceptable behaviours on the net, and they will be enforced to one degree or another."However, Cerf is also convinced that it's the internet's openness - in allowing people with new ideas to do their thing without getting anyone's permission - that is the main source of its power."So I have this almost schizoid hope that we deal with some of the abuses in the net and, at the same time, we don't lose this very open environment, so that information-sharing remains as open as it has been," he says.One example is Google, a company that Cerf - now 65 - joined three years ago as Chief Internet Evangelist. "Google wouldn't exist if Larry [Page] and Sergey [Brin] hadn't just built this thing and tried it out. The same is true with Jerry [Yang, co-founder] at Yahoo," says Cerf.The internet hardly needs an evangelist now. However, it still needs defending, and Cerf has been putting the case for "net neutrality" - a hot topic for US politicians, who are being lobbied by the phone companies."We're expecting new legislation," he says. "I think there should be very strong measures to prevent anti-competitive actions, so I'm actually very sanguine about the passing of legislation in the United States."Traffic copsHe says Google's aim is to ensure open communications, which means equally open to different technologies and different types of traffic. However, limiting the amount of traffic each person uses is a different matter. "As long as you get the capacity you're paying for, that's a form of fairness," says Cerf. "It's orthogonal to net neutrality."As the publicly recognised "father of the internet" and winner of a Turing and other awards, Cerf also opens doors for Google. Last Wednesday he spent the morning talking at the British Computer Society before visiting the Guardian for a Q&amp;A with a couple of dozen staff over a sandwich lunch. He started out by showing us his dancing programmable Sony MP3 player, Rolly, which shows we can now put computer power wherever we need it, he says. It's really an ice-breaker to show he's not stuffy.Suffice it to say that Cerf doesn't think the net will be brought to its knees either by botnets or spam. "Spam is a problem, but we can filter it," he says, and its demands on capacity are "small relative to the bits carrying images and video". As for the zombies, he points out that "the botnet herders don't want to destroy the internet: they need it to make a living. We may not think it's acceptable, but that's their motivation."He also doesn't think the net is going to exhibit any form of consciousness. "I don't believe we will see grow out of the network the kind of intelligence that sounds like a Fred Hoyle science fiction novel," he says. However, "even if the internet is not intelligent and aware, it will feel more intelligent than it does today. But it's fair to say that if you want the system to do things you care about, you have to let it know what you care about. You have to give up some information voluntarily."House of cardsAfterwards, over a coffee, I raise the spectre of the "two-tier internet" that some companies would like. There could be, for example, a trusted, controlled "overnet" for commercial and business use, and an "undernet" where anything goes."It's probably not wise to design systems that assume that a particular subset is trusted," says Cerf. "I don't mean to say you shouldn't try, but every machine that can be compromised is a potential hazard. A machine that was OK yesterday is certainly not OK today: it may have ingested an infected memory stick. At the very least, you have to keep validating it. My bias right now tends to be 'It's every man for himself' - you need to be suspicious whether you're inside the trusted cloud or not, and when it fails, the house of cards tends to collapse."But the continuous validation of known sources is not something for which the internet provides much help. "The idea of a virtual private network was not part of the original design," says Cerf, with a grin. "It was actually an oversight. It didn't occur to me that it would be useful until afterwards."Of course, no one foresaw just how big, or how pervasive, the internet was going to become. In the end, we should probably be grateful the designers opted not for control but for freedom.Curriculum VitaeAge65EducationGraduated Stanford University, 1965, BS in Mathematics; MS in Computer Science, UCLA; PhD in Computer Science, UCLACareerIncludesassistant professor, Stanford University; US Department of Defense's Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA); vice-president, MCI; founding president of the Internet Society; visiting scientist, Nasa; chairman, ICANN; chief internet evangelist, GoogleFamilyMarried to Sigrid; two sons
WithSteve Jobs and the Portal to the Invisible, Esquire magazine has given Apple's boss what almost amounts toanother obituary, with the implication that he's going to die sooner rather than later. It says:It is true that his cancer, originating not in the ductwork of the pancreas but rather in the islets of Langerhans, is slow growing and, in the words of one expert, can be addressed "with curative intent"; it is also true that even after surgery, the average patient lives about five years.But the 6,700-word story doesn't show too much respect for the living, dishing the dirt on what some people really think of him. It says:Nobody wants to be the guy who points out that Jobs is "an obnoxious asshole" or "just a horrifying human being" -- because then Jobs has already won, simply on the basis of scale. Better to be the ex-Apple-employee who says, "The question is not whether he's an asshole. That's beside the point. The question is whether he can be an asshole and a good Buddhist.""For most people, he'll go down in history as the guy who made technology user-friendly," says one executive. "But to people in business, he'll be remembered as the guy who only did deals where he had all the leverage -- and used every bit of it. It's not enough that he wins. You have to lose. He's completely unreasonable."Author Tom Junod makes rather a lot of the fact that Jobs was adopted and apparently needs to prove himself: "he has, shall we say, control issues that many adoptive parents would recognize."He also makes quite a lot of Jobs's desire for some sort of immortality, while pointing out that today's iPod is tomorrow's landfill, just like the old Sony Walkman.Raised but not answered (not surprisingly) is what happens to Apple after Steve Jobs dies. As a company, Apple is now more of a one-man show than ever before. He is irreplaceable, and if he hadn't returned to the company, it seems unlikely that Apple would have survived. How long it would survive his death is a key question.
JoinAleks KrotoskiandJemima Kisswith a host of music industry professionals as they dissect the impact technology has had on the music industry. Martin Sticksel fromLast.fmpulls back the curtain on the hugely successful British music recommendation service.  We hearBobbie Johnson'sthoughts on how the history of the music industry is strangely reminiscent of the issues it currently faces, and professional songwriterHelienne Lindvallshares her manifesto for a digital music business in an ideal world.In the studio, the team welcome Sony/BMG's Director of Strategy, Federico Bolza, the CEO of online gig recommendation serviceSongkick, Ian Hogarth, and Ben Perreau, CEO of music news resourceGigulate, to discuss copyright issues, new models, the return of the fan at the centre of the musical universe, and the technologies which have caused this shift. Put your headphones on and turn this one up to eleven, it's time for Tech Weekly.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Five more titles that might change your mind about mobile gaming this autumn. Yes, even you, Greg...Samurai Puzzle Battle (Hands-on)Puzzle Quest was a huge sleeper hit on every platform it touched last year, enticing unwary gamers with its crack-like combination of gem-swapping puzzler and RPG adventure. Samurai Puzzle Battle pretty much lifts the entire formula, transferring the action to feudal Japan, and adding a unit management element, so you're not just controlling a lone adventurer anymore, you're commanding soldiers across a war-ravaged landscape. The central gameplay is the same though – complete a series of turn-based puzzle battles by swapping icons around the board, creating lines of similar blocks and inflicting damage on your opponent. It's stylish, well-implemented stuff, adding neat little touches to the Puzzle Quest recipe, without over-powering the winning ingredients.Don't like mobile games? Make our own!Yamake (Nokia)Perhaps inspired by all the hype surrounding LittleBigPLanet, Yamake (which apparently means 'you make the game') is a mini-game creation package that lets you throw together simple word or picture puzzles using images and sound clips from your phone or PC. You can then share your creations with friends via Bluetooth or MMS, or upload them to N-Gage Arena, where a dedicated community can rate and review each title. Nokia's Head of Games Publishing Dr Mark Ollila called it, 'the future of mobile gaming'. There could be as much truth in that as hyperbole.Toss your own project out on Mac, web or iPhone with this drag-and-drop application.GameSalad (Gendai Games)Meanwhile in Texas… New studio,Gendai, is now alpha testing a Mac-based game creation tool with a simple drag-and-drop interface, allowing users to craft their own projects for Mac, web or iPhone, then post them online (perhaps your own blog or a social networking site) for everyone else to try out. The package even gives access to the iPhone's multi-touch screen and accelerometer. Okay, so this one might not be out by Autumn, but it sort of fitted nicely beneath Yamake.It's a pool game, it's a social networking site, it's got its cute little isometric finger on the pulse.Party Pool 2-in-1 (Digital Chocolate)This extremely talented publisher/developer brought accessible mobile social gaming to the masses last year with itsDchoc Caféseries. These simple puzzlers were linked by a customizable Habbo-style hub, where players could text chat with friends and share viral demos of new Café titles. Party Island is essentially Dchoc Café 2 – another social gaming system, this time built around a tropical island resort, drawn in crisp, bright isometrics. The social element is more robust this time, with more intuitive text communications and built-in Facebook support. Party Pool 2-in-1 is one of the first titles in the series – a fun pool sim, featuring novelty tables and obstacles like pint spillages and torn baize. Fresh takes on popular standards, social networking integration, customisation – this is sort of where all mobile games should probably be going.Wi-Fi Army (Wi2P Entertainment)You'll see it mentioned in my column for the Technology section on Thursday, but for nowWi-Fi Armyis a location-based game allowing you to identify other players in your area, then track them using GPS and Google Maps – when you meet, your phones become guns… Okay, so assisination titles like this have been doing the rounds on mobile for years, but Wi-Fi Army could be the first truly, globally mainstream version as it's designed for the (hopefully) rock solid Android platform.
Every time I read one ofKeith's roundupsI think ok, maybe mobile gaming *has* improved. Then I remember the fiddly controls, limp gameplay and the huge hassle in actually getting a game on your phone and go running back to the DS and PSP. But, and you may have seen this coming, the iPhone has changed my mind. Not because of any great leap in the quality of mobile games – the lineup forNokia's Ngageis actually stronger - but simply because iTunes makes it easy to actually get the things onto your phone in the first place.  Oh, and the fact that there some decent free games doesn't help either.  But by buying 4 or 5 titles for the iPhone in the last month I've spent more on mobile games since, well ever.My latest purchase was theStar Wars Force UnleashediPhone game. Squint and you could be playing the PSP version – hardly mind-blowing then but the graphics are perfectly acceptable. But the main draw is using the touchscreen to "cast" your Force powers. Amazingly this works well and actually makes you feel vaguely powerful. The main problem here is the brevity of the game. Yes, I know mobile games, short bursts, yadda yadda – but I'd seen pretty much all of Force Unleashed within 90 mins or so.  And that's while squeezed in on a bumpy train.Of course, brevity won't be an issue with the first must-have iPhone game –Puzzle Quest– which is due out this Autumn. I've been playing the Xbox 360 version of the puzzle roleplayer for months and am still dipping in and out.  Yup, mobile gaming has finally started to get interesting.
PC Tools' Threatfire map of American cities most heavily targeted by malwareSecurity company PC Tools has come up with its "Hot Zone" map of America - the cities most target by nasty critters over the internet. No surprises that top of the list are such dens of filth as New York, Houston, Los Angeles and Chicago (the country's top four cities by population? New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Houston). But what's with America's fifth most-targeted city, Miami?Perhaps it's all those retirees heading south to Florida to enjoy their twilight years who are pushing up the stats. In any case, this sounds like it could be case for one of Miami's famous cops - CSI's mumbling maestroHoratio Caineor the ever-fashionable Crocket and Tubbs.(map courtesy ofPC Tools, Miami Vice still from Associated Press)
It looks like, for now, the videogame industry is doing what it has historically always done - fly in the face of economic downturn. Microsoft has just announced that UK sales of Xbox 360 have increased by 214% in the last two weeks, no doubt thanks to the drop in price point for the recession-busting Arcade version.Meanwhile, Game has announced record figures for the first half of the year, with pre-tax profits of £36.4 million - up from £2.7 million this time last year. GTA IV, Wii Fit and the acquisition of Game Station were apparently all contributing factors in the group's success. Clearly enjoying the momentum, the company is now opening 'concessions' in 33 branches of bookshop, Borders, so you pretend to be browsing the philosophy aisle, while really eyeing up that copy of Fallout 3.Game also mentioned that the UK installed user base of current gen consoles now stands at......17.3 million units - double last year's figure. The Nintendo DS accounts for the largest chunk of this figure with 7.1m units, followed by Wii at 3.6m, PSP at 2.9m, Xbox 360 at 2.3m and PS3 on 1.4m.Gamesindustry.biz hasa note of cautionhowever. It seems the stock value of many game publishers has plummeted over the last 24 hours, in a familiar response to the rejection of Hank Paulson's $700bn Wall St rescue package.I wonder, though, if the downturn will have a creative impact on the industry? Can we expect lots of games based in a chaotic, post-capitalist world?I was going to do that classic tabloid thing and come up with lots of titles that have been topically 're-imagined'. The best I could do are Stockmarket Crash of the Titans and Duke Nukem Foreclosure. Fancy a go?
BT is to restart trials of a controversial internet advertising system that has outraged privacy campaigners.Britain's biggest internet service provider said it would begin a new trial affecting thousands of customers starting today, despite the fact that two earlier secret experiments involving the technology prompted outcry and a police investigationThe system, known as Webwise, allows BT to potentially track and monitor every website that a customer visits, allowing it to build detailed behavioural profiles of web surfers based on their online activity.Built by London-based advertising technology companyPhorm, the system allows BT to insert its own highly targeted advertising onto web pages to earn extra money.While traditional internet advertising systems allow the owners of individual websites to see who is visiting them, Phorm's systems have much wider scope because they run in partnership with internet service providers themselves.This means that Webwise could have access to details of every website that customers visit, as well as every internet search they conduct and other personal information.The latest experiment, which has been delayed since March because of public concerns and a series of police and government investigations, will affect up to 10,000 users over a four-week period.As well worries over the potential abuse of such data, privacy campaigners were outraged when it emerged that two previous trials had been conducted without the consent of customers. They argued that it was illegal for BT to spy on users without their agreement, prompting a police investigation.But last week City of London police announced that they had completed their investigation after finding no evidence of illegal activity, paving the way for the new trial to begin.Similarly, a government investigation decided that Webwise did not breach European laws on data protection. However it did ask Phorm to allow web surfers "to exercise choice about whether to be involved".But although theInformation Commissioner, Britain's privacy watchdog, has also warned that the WebWise system would only be legal if it required users to opt in - rather than be applied to every single customer - the two companies said that it could potentially be used on every one of BT's 4.5 million broadband subscribers."Following successful completion of this trial and an appropriate period of analysis and planning, it is currently expected that Phorm's platform will be rolled out across BT's network," they said in a joint statement.Promotional material on BT's website describes Webwise as a fraud prevention service, which uses its ability to track the web pages you visit to warn you if you are visiting a dubious or fake website. It is only after explaining this aspect of the system that the company mentions that it "also personalises the online advertising you see when browsing on participating websites by linking ads to your interests".As well as its deal with BT, Phorm is in negotiations with other major broadband providers, including Virgin Media and the Carphone Warehouse's Talk Talk service – as well as some internet companies in the US.
Four years ago, when Buffy the Vampire Slayer spin-off Angel was cancelled, fans mounteda fierce campaignto have it resurrected.At the time, it struck me that if a few ardent fans – and let's not forget that the word is short for "fanatic" – could raise enough money within 48 hours to place ads in the Hollywood Reporter and Variety, then mightn't the larger fanbase be persuaded to pay the creators directly to produce the entertainment they enjoyed?At the time, the technology simply didn't exist to make this a feasible proposition, but it's starting to come together. Angel creator Joss Whedon's recent projectDr Horrible's Sing-Along Blogisn't onlya great piece of art, it's also a fascinating experiment in making money from TV without ever going near a network.Meanwhile groundbreaking indie Xbox Live Arcade gameBraidhas sales which rival those of XBLA games from major publishers. At the same time, thecommercialreleaseofuseable e-book readersmakes it possible for more authors to contemplate distributing their  work themselves, as e-books.Does this herald a new age for the creative industries? Are we going to see the end of the moneymaking middle-man?If writers can distribute their books online directly for download to an e-book reader, if television and game creators can recoup their production costs via direct downloads, then is the era of the giant publisher, games label or television network over?Well, probably not. Braid still hasn't broken even, Dr Horrible's success rides on Whedon's reputation for his network TV shows, and authors still rely on publisher's advances to survive.But these developments might be good news for artists who'd rather stay away from big commercial organisations – even if only for some of their work.Kevin Kelly, founding executive editor of Wired magazine has suggested that a creator – whether of music, books, television, games, visual art or any other art form – should aim to find1,000 true fans. That is, fans who "come to your openings… have you sign their copies… buy the T-shirt, and the mug, and the hat". With that number of fans – and, crucially, without any middlemen involved – an artist can make a living without having to become an international celebrity.But those who are interested in attracting a dedicated, engaged fanbase should be warned: the loyalties of such groups may prove hard to direct.Douglas Adams was a writer who commanded tremendous loyalty from his fans. Like many others, I'm so devoted to his work that I've happily shelled out over the years for print editions of the Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy series, and then other, more beautiful print editions, the cassettes of the original radio series, the CDs of the same radio series, the CDs of the new radio series, the VHS tapes of the TV series, the DVDs of the TV series and so on. Adams' early death at the age of 49 was a tragedy which I, like so many others who had never met him, continue to feel deeply.Penguinannounced recentlythat it has commissionedEoin Colferto continue the Hitchhikers series with a sixth book, And Another Thing.Given that "sequels" written by new authorshave been aroundfor decades, this seems an old-fashioned way to continue the legacy of a technological visionary.It also demonstrates one of the pitfalls of having true fans. One might have expected the legions of Adams fans to respond to news that there'd be another book with delight. But no.Within hours of Penguin's announcement, thefirst protest sitehad gone up.Discusssion boardshave reactedwith at best wary optimism and at worst outright horror.The thing about having true fans, it seems, is that they remain loyal to their idea of what the work meant to them. And that might make them more exacting than the toughest studio executive or publishing boss.
Internet radio stations threatened with closure in the US are on the verge of securing their future, after a groundswell of support from users.Tim Westergren, who founded popularonline music service Pandora, said that phone calls from thousands of fans helped to repel a "sneak attack" by media industry lobbyists who were attempting to derail new legislation."We emailed all our listeners and said to them to call their representative, and buried the Hill in phone calls," Westergren said yesterday. "We beat back a concerted attempt to knock us out."Pandora - which uses detailed analysis of individual music tracks to create personalised playlists - is among the world's most popular internet radio stations, with 17 million registered users.However, it was among a number of services that faced closure after American legislators decided to drastically increase the level of royalties that internet broadcasters should pay for streaming music over the web.The changes require them to hand over around 70% of their income in performance royalties. By contrast, satellite radio providers pay around 7.5% through the same mechanism, while traditional radio broadcasters pay no performance royalties at all.A new proposal which gives internet radio stations more time to renegotiate the settlement was put forward, but organisations including theNational Association of Broadcastershad attempted to scupper the deal.However, with grassroots campaigners swamping senators and representatives over the issue, Westergren said he was confident the new deal would succeed in the next few days.He also suggested that the incident could be a breakthrough moment for those who want to harness consumer power online to fight established Capitol Hill lobbyists."Can you imagine even five years ago that an arcane law in the bottom of a bill, surrounded by lobbyists, would be fought so that they had to renegotiate?""We have the ability to bring so much pressure to bear," he added. "I hope what we did will become a model for other people."Westergren also said that he was keen to move forward with deals elsewhere in the world, including the UK.The service has not been available outside the United States since last July, after the company pulled the plug following threats of legal action from record labels. The situation has left the market to rivals such asLast.fmwhich have negotiated individual deals with record companies.But Westergren said he was confident that progress could be made once the right settlement was made in the US."We've made no progress in the past 18 months," he admitted. "But we think we can take this as a template around the world. As soon as we're done here, I'm going to get on a boat."
Tuesday's just before 9am version of Chatterbox...
Well, it's official: theend of the world is nigh. Wall Street's plagued by madness; investment banking is dead in the water and the free-market loving American government's decided it likes to nationalise stuff after all.The idea of the crunch has even started to hit home with the usually-unaware dotcommers around San Francisco, who were briefly roused from sipping their triple-shot mochaccinos by the news thatApple's share price is tanking.Since we're living in brutal times, it's worth taking a moment to execute the canard - put about by the likes of Steve Ballmerjust days ago- that Silicon Valleywon't feel the credit crunch. Let's admit it: most technology companies are expensive beasts with weird business models.If your company is reliant on lots of venture capital to get it going,you're going to see the money dry up. If your company relies on purchases or subscriptions, your buyers will be feeling the pinch soon if they aren't already. If your company relies on advertising to make its money, thenthings are going to get very tough(hey, we're in that boat too - we know there's plenty of water coming in over the sides).And if you haven't got a business model at all? Well, you're screwed now - but, frankly, you should have been screwed all along.While it's true that some industries are more insulated than others - cash-strapped families are more likely to watch a DVD than go to the cinema during times of recession, for example - nobody gets off scott free. If Apple's share price takes a beating, or Google gets owned by a dropoff in advertising, then why should your web 2.0 startup be any different?Let's think positive here, and picture the credit crunch as a correction for bad ideas. AsTim O'Reilly said, when your business makes applications that simulate beer drinking via an iPhone, perhaps it's time to ask whether you're working on the right things.Nobody's safe. Nobody ever should have been.
Fears that the global economic downturn is curtailing consumer shopping habits sent Apple's shares plunging 16% as analysts took a red pen to previously robust forecasts for sales of iPods, iMacs and iPhones.At one point, the drop was the biggest one-day fall for Apple in seven years. It was a marked change of sentiment towards one of Silicon Valley's most profitable companies, which had previously been seen as relatively immune to recession.Kathryn Huberty, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, triggered the rout with a research note slashing her price target for Apple's shares from $178 to $115. "We worry that consensus estimates have not been revised down to reflect slowing global consumer demand," she wrote.By lunchtime on the New York Stock Exchange, Apple had fallen by $17.19 to $110.26. This triggered a wholesale sell-off in tech stocks, which were already wobbling after disappointing figures last week from the BlackBerry smartphone maker Research in Motion. The technology-dominated Nasdaq index slumped by 4.7% to 2,080.An RBC Capital analyst, Mike Abramsky, cut his Apple price target from $200 to $140, pointing to market research suggesting a sharp fall in the number of people who plan to buy new computers over the next 90 days.Last year's launch of the iPhone brought long queues to Apple stores around the world and since then the company's carefully managed global roll-out of the handsets has generated much excitement.But in the US, economic gloom appears to be setting in. A poll by Gallup for USA Today revealed that 33% of Americans believe the country is in not just a recession but a depression. And 73% said they expected economic woes to get worse before they get better.The US commerce department reported that consumer spending was flat during August - the first month since February with no increase."It looks like we are poised to see a real-term decline in personal consumption and that will likely result in a negative GDP number in the third quarter," said James O'Sullivan, an economist at UBS Securities in Stamford, Connecticut.As the technology sell-off gathered pace, Google's stock dropped by 7%, falling below $400 for the first time since  September 2006; Dell fell 4% and Microsoft dropped 2.3%. Research in Motion slipped 6% and rival smartphone manufacturer Palm lost 5% of its value.
OK, here's a challenge. Business Week has just published a slide show of the25 most influential people on the web. (Scroll down and you can pick their pics or hit the buttons for slides.) Your mission, should you choose to accept it, is to come up with one of the missing names.Examples include Vint Cerf, Mark Zuckerberg (Facebook) and, oh, Tim Berners-Lee.To be fair, I guess if you do the list every year, you wouldn't want it to include all the same old names every time…..
I notice that there are lots of posts about Apple's share price, which tumbled almost 20% today, reaching $100 before rallying. This is pretty much what's happened to Dell shares as well, but I haven't spotted anyone writing about that. (Google is also down from an all-time high flying $747 last year to $385. Has anyone noticed that the US economy isn't what it used to be?)Apple's stock plunge came "after Morgan Stanley and RBC both downgraded the stock this morning," saysSilicon Alley Insider.RBC said 40% of people plan on spending less money on electronics in the next 90 days: "the weakest outlook ever seen." Well, that's a surprise. However, SAI says:Morgan Stanley's Kathryn Huberty points out that the remaining source of growth in the PC market is in the sub-$1,000 market, where Apple currently sells no laptops.Indeed, there may well be growth in the sub-$600 sector, which is where companies such as Asus and Acer are selling netbooks -- with Dell, HP, Lenovo, Samsung, Toshiba and others following at a rapid rate.Apple has never made a subnotebook Mac or Mac-based netbook, so is it time for something new? Would a $599 netbook Mac hurt sales of $1,100+ models or create a mini-boom as Mac fans buy a second or third machine?
So another British summer has slumped to a wheezing, pathetic defeat, leaving us with freezing commutes in the looming autumnal darkness. But, hey, look on the bright side - there are some excellent mobile games on the way. If you're still too bashful to pull out a Nintendo DS on the bus, or just don't fancy chucking another few hundred quid in Sony's direction for a PSP, your mobile could prove an invaluable gaming companion over the coming months.Here's my pick of the ten most promising autumn releases, in no order. The next batch tomorrow...Resident Evil: Degeneration (Capcom)Based around the forthcomingCG movieof the same name, this N-Gage exclusive follows Leon Kennedy and Claire Redfield as they once again encounter a deadly zombifying virus, this time unleashed by terrorists at a US airport (yet more misery for air passengers). It looks to be a 3D third-person adventure, more in the vein of early PS1 incarnations than the graphically simplified (butstill pretty good) Resident Evil: The Missions. The press release ishere.Silent Hill hospital - not quite meeting government healthcare targets.Silent Hill Mobile 2 (Konami/Glu)Resident Evil doesn't hold the monopoly on miniaturised survival horror mayhem. Released last year the original Silent Hill Mobile effectively chopped up Konami's freaky series, plausibly re-imagining it as a Myst-style first-person puzzler. Number two retains the point-and-click interface and slow-burning narrative, but switches the psychological trauma from a ghostly orphanage to Silent Hill's decrepit hospital. MRSA is likely to be the least of your worries.FIFA 09 (EA Mobile)EA's footie titles have been well-received on mobile, even if Gameloft's Real Football and Konami's PES titles have enjoyed the critical edge. In response, the 2009 edition seems to be abandoning the all-out casual feel, dropping the isometric viewpoint used in last year's iteration in favour of a console-style sideways display, as well as adding new timing meters for tackling and shooting. There's an enhanced Season mode, too, and a new Man of the Match feature, which rewards players who display a good work ethic. I also love the late-eighties arcade-style visuals – reminds me of Super Sidekicks. Which is a good thing.Knock down those orange pegs. Straighforward but mind-meltingly addictive.Peggle (Popcap)Popcap's casual gaming mainstay, apparently downloaded more than 20 million times on the web, is coming to mobile in a few weeks. The pinball and puzzling hybrid requires players to knock down orange pegs with a ball fired from the top of the screen - power-ups and obstacles add to the challenge. It's already workedbrilliantlyon iPod, so it's hard to imagine a mobile version letting the sde down. Like Bejeweled, Chuzzle and Zuma before it, this will be unmissable stuff for bored commuters.Car Jack Streets (I-play)Dundee studio Tag Games was formed by two ex-DMA staffers, previously responsible for level designing on the original Grand Theft Auto. Now it looks like they're rampaging back to their roots. In the descriptively titled Car Jack Streets you must clear huge gambling debts by, yep, stealing cars and running missions for criminal scum. Pocket Gamer has just runan interesting news storyon the game, which apparently uses real-world time as a central gameplay element, perhaps governing when certain missions are available. The top-down visuals will provide a nostalgic thrill to those who loved GTA before the epoch-shattering third iteration.
The concept of using web-based programs like Google's Gmail is "worse than stupidity", according to a leading advocate of free software.Cloud computing– where IT power is delivered over the internet as you need it, rather than drawn from a desktop computer – has gained currency in recent years. Large internet and technology companies including Google, Microsoft and Amazon are pushing forward their plans to deliver information and software over the net.But Richard Stallman, founder of the Free Software Foundation and creator of the computer operating system GNU, said that cloud computing was simply a trap aimed at forcing more people to buy into locked, proprietary systems that would cost them more and more over time."It's stupidity. It's worse than stupidity: it's a marketing hype campaign," he told The Guardian."Somebody is saying this is inevitable – and whenever you hear somebody saying that, it's very likely to be a set of businesses campaigning to make it true."The 55-year-old New Yorker said that computer users should be keen to keep their information in their own hands, rather than hand it over to a third party.His comments echo those made last week by Larry Ellison, the founder of Oracle, who criticised the rash of cloud computing announcements as "fashion-driven" and "complete gibberish"."The interesting thing about cloud computing is that we've redefined cloud computing to include everything that we already do," he said. "The computer industry is the only industry that is more fashion-driven than women's fashion. Maybe I'm an idiot, but I have no idea what anyone is talking about. What is it? It's complete gibberish. It's insane. When is this idiocy going to stop?"The growing number of people storing information on internet-accessible servers rather than on their own machines, has become a core part of the rise of Web 2.0 applications. Millions of people now upload personal data such as emails, photographs and, increasingly, their work, to sites owned by companies such as Google.Computer manufacturer Dell recently even tried to trademark the term "cloud computing",although its application was refused.But there has been growing concern thatmainstream adoption of cloud computing could present a mixture of privacy and ownership issues, with users potentially being locked out of their own files.Stallman, who is a staunch privacy advocate, advised users to stay local and stick with their own computers."One reason you should not use web applications to do your computing is that you lose control," he said. "It's just as bad as using a proprietary program. Do your own computing on your own computer with your copy of a freedom-respecting program. If you use a proprietary program or somebody else's web server, you're defenceless. You're putty in the hands of whoever developed that software."
If Takashi Yamada had asked me, I'd have told him he had little chance of achieving fame and, perhaps, fortune by starting a blog devoted to cutting-edge design. Luckily, he didn't ask me. After five years, his blog has a huge following and is in 63rd place in Technorati's Top 100 list. It also has a chief executive officer and half a dozen staff, having become, it claims, "the world's most popular and influential online design magazine".The secret ofYanko Design's success is that it deals in concepts rather than products. It shows designs you can't see in the shops. Indeed, I suspect the majority will never go into production because they are of little practical use. But they often look stunning, and they make you think.Yanko Design uses the rubric "Form beyond function", but "form over function" is too often the result.The apotheosis of this sort of design was Philippe Starck's lemon squeezer, Juicy Salif. It's a tall three-legged thing that looks like a visitor from outer space. I've met someone who owns one. He says it looks great in the kitchen – it's a design classic and a conversation piece – but it's more or less useless as a lemon squeezer. You can get a better lemon squeezer in any cut-price crockery store. But designing something that just worked wouldn't have helped Starck become rich and famous.Yanko Design reports on designs from all sorts of fields such as architecture, cars, bathroom and other furniture, jewellery and tableware. It features lots of electronic products including watches and mobile phones. Each item is usually represented by at least one photo plus a brief text on a tasteful black background, then by readers' comments.Under each entry, the site also suggests up to five more items on the basis that if you liked this one, you'll like them, too. It usually gets you browsing, and something is bound to catch your eye.One random example is thePuzzle Table by Hsien Chang, which "was inspired by sliding puzzles". It's a worktable with storage baskets under the table top, which are exposed by moving sections of top. That's fine as long as you don't put things on top of the table, which rather defeats the purpose of having a table. At least it reminds you that sliding drawers do have a point.Another example is therhyme&amp;reason clothing by Mary Huang: "The dress is a combination of woven cotton jersey and hand-crocheted flowers and about two dozen bright white LEDs are embedded in each. Dimmer not included." So your clothes double as lights ..."Form beyond function" provides a playful counterpoint to the orthodoxy of the 20th century, where "form follows function" and "ornament is a crime" were the slogans underpinning the Bauhaus-style modernist approach to design. But judging by the number of readers of Yanko Design who say they want to buy some of this stuff, you can go a bit too far the other way.
Learning and Teaching Scotland, or LTS for short, have consistently pushed the serious games agenda forward by producing quantitative positive results supporting the benefit of computer games in education. Their latest findings indicate a link between Dr. Kawashima's Brain Training and maths scores, according to theBBC. From thepress release:The pupils were initially given a maths test before using Brain Training from Dr Kawashima on the Nintendo DS for 20 minutes at the start of each day for nine weeks or continuing their class as normal. The game featured challenges including reading tests, problem-solving exercises and memory puzzles designed to exercise the brain while the control group continued their lessons in a more traditional manner.When they were tested again at the end of the nine weeks the results found all groups involved had improved their scores but those using the game improved by a further 50% from 78 to 83 out of 100. The time taken to complete the tests also dropped by five minutes from 18.5 minutes to 13.5 minutes with the improvement of the games group more than twice as much as the control classes.This is the outcome fromLTS' earlier claims.For more on serious games, check thisTech Weekly programme, where David Wortley, director of theSerious Games Instituteexplains why evidence that games teach good doesn't mean evidence that they also teach bad.CheersSilversprite!
No doubt you'll already have seen the reports. Last week, Japanese news source, Nikkei,revealedthat Nintendo is set to launch a re-designed DS, complete with a camera, music-playing capabilities and improved wireless internet access (NeoGaf has the main points and some scanshere). The new version is supposedly hitting Japanese shelves before Christmas with a 20,000 Yen price tag. Most follow-up stories are mentioning the possibility that the camera will be useable in certain games, perhaps mimicking the several mobile titles that use the camera.Meanwhile, music functionality may be delivered via SD card compatibility, which could also allow a new channel of data exchange between your Wii and DS. Screen size will apparently be larger too, though there's no sign of the rumoured double touchscreen feature.Reactions to the news haven't been entirely favourable...Nintendo has traditionally plowed its own furrow through the technology sector, rarely jumping on the feature set bandwagon. But by turning the DS into a converged handheld platform, the company is suddenly competing on the same terms as the PSP as well as nudging at the mobile phone sector. Reuterssuggeststhis may be a response to strengthening PSP performance in Japan, where Sony's device has outsold the DS for several consecutive months.Or maybe it just has some really need game ideas that require a camera and improved Wi-Fi - some sort of multiplayer version ofPolaroid Pete, maybe?
Monday's what did you play this weekend edition of Chatterbox....
What on earth are Microsoft thinking? Xbox Live isdown todayfor 24 hours maintenance. On a Monday??? Why not Friday when people are more likely to be out? Yes, feel free to insert joke here about gamers and social lives. So just what are 360 owners who play online going to do today? I'm missing out on my regular PES fix but what about all those Halo and Call of Duty fans. And it's not only hardcore gamers – what about the legions of Uno players??Forget the credit crunch, this is the most pressing issue today. And let's hope it is just a day eh? What if the downtime gets extended into tomorrow? Unthinkable! Anyway, Xbox owners – how are you planning to fill those Live-free hours?
You know that moment when somebody has you so riled that you're getting ready to cross the rubicon and strike back? Danny O'Brien explains that it's almost certainly best to just write it out and press delete - sinceyou're probably closer to being a troll than you think.People think trolls are other people: He/she is a troll, you are a feisty opponent, while I merely have strong opinions. And it's true that some people do turn into trolls full-time, presumably while growing hair out of their ears and developing a head-under-shoulders look (or is that gonks?). But really, we're all just one "submit" button away from being a troll.I always enjoy that moment of self-restraint when, instead of launching into a flame, I sit back, press delete and feel the warm glow of smugness envelop me. And the best part? If you never actually make your flames public, nobody can ever shatter the illusion that your weak comeback was not a piece of genius.(Comic fromxkcd)
'My life is a blank!" I identified with that comment from an American blogger when Scrabulous, the online facsimile of Scrabble, finally disappeared from Facebook last month. It was withdrawn by the Indian Agarwalla brothers, who designed the game, after legal threats from Scrabble's UK copyright owner, Mattel.I only played the board game at Christmas with my Auntie Marion, but Scrabulous was something else. Among its charms was the facility to check for obscure words before you played them. So if anyone questioned the validity of "qi" (a Taoist term meaning "life force"), they would look foolish. Life without it was tough. At work, I resorted to long-neglected activities such as answering my phone, and that hour usually spent letter-juggling before bed proved difficult to fill.But now the Agarwallas have returned, with Wordscraper. It's basically the same game, but with just enough differences - round letter squares, different bonus squares, and quadruple letter scores. You can also customise the board and rules. Already, many former Scrabulites have taken to Wordscraper like a Z to a quadruple letter score. But there is a split in the word-mangling community. Not before time, an official online Scrabble application has appeared on Facebook, and it already has half a million users. However, the average review rating of 1.6 out of five suggests few have formed a habit. "Very slow and clumsy," they say. "Yuk! Nasty graphics." "Ill thought out." Worse still, your turns are timed, meaning if your opponent plays a word while you're in a meeting, you forfeit your turn - thus alienating the desk-dwelling demographic at a stroke.Wordscraper has no such restriction, and is rated 4.3 out of five. With little publicity, it already has 247,000 users. It'll surely send white-collar productivity plummeting by Christmas, to add to the economy's woes, but who cares? By then, I'll be so white hot that when I next play Auntie Marion at Scrabble, I'll thrash her within an inch of her qi.
The introduction of unlimited mobile music services such as Nokia's Comes With Music and Sony Ericsson's PlayNow plus could result in British consumers downloading a staggering 2.1bn tracks a year, according to new research.Services that allow consumers to download as many tracks as they want - and keep all, or at least some, of them at the end of their contract - are likely to reduce online music piracy but exacerbate the decline in sales of CDs, according to the market researcher TNS Technology."It is still contingent on the services offering all they have promised to offer but if the industry got it right we could see a significant shift in the way people obtain and listen to music," said Stephen Yap, research director at TNS Technology.Nokia has announced that it will be selling handsets for its Comes With Music service in Britain in time for Christmas. Unlimited access to more than 2m tracks will be bundled in as part of the price of the phone, which is due to be announced on October 2.Tracks are downloaded on to a computer then transferred to the device. Users can keep all their downloaded music after a year - although it can be played only on the PC to which it was downloaded or the Nokia handset - but if they want any new tracks they have to buy a new handset.The Comes With Music handset, which was unveiled this month, is aimed at the pre-pay market. Nokia will unveil its first touchscreen phone on Thursday, which is expected to be part of the Comes With Music range and aimed at seeing off the challenge posed by Apple's iPhone.Last week Sony Ericsson announced a deal with the mobile music specialist Omnifone to support its PlayNow plus service. Unlike Nokia, Sony Ericsson needs the cooperation of a mobile phone network because it relies on consumers downloading tracks over the network. At the end of a period set by the operator - such as a year or 18 months for contract customers - consumers will be able to keep their favourite tracks, which can be played on any device including an iPod, but if they want new tracks they will have to resubscribe.TNS interviewed more than 1,000 people aged 16 to 64 about unlimited mobile music services and over a quarter expressed keen interest in signing up. When asked how many tracks they would download a month, the average was 64, with 16-to-24-year-olds wanting almost twice that number. If that was replicated across the UK, that would equal 2.1bn tracks downloaded a year.The survey also found out that when presented with an unlimited service, 45% of users would buy fewer CDs and 47% would buy fewer digital downloads from online stores. Crucially, however, 38% said they would reduce their use of illegal file-sharing sites.For the mobile phone companies, unlimited mobile music services are yet another way of encouraging customers to stick with them and to download music on to their phones rather than "side-loading" it from their computer. Although 43% of mobile phone users who have a handset that includes an MP3 player make use of it, only 13% have ever downloaded a track from their mobile phone company.
MI6is using thesocial networkingsiteFacebookto recruit the next generation of spies. The Secret Intelligence Service, which has traditionally scoured the country's elite universities for recruits, launched a series of online adverts this month as part of its attempts to attract people from a variety of backgrounds."A number of public channels are used to promote job opportunities in the organisation and Facebook is a recent example of this," said a Foreign Office spokeswoman. MI6 runs agents in foreign countries and says it wants its officers to "reflect the society" they serve.Before 2006 most recruits joined after getting a tap on the shoulder while studying at a leading university.But since then the organisation has run newspaper and radio adverts. Those on Facebook have already generated a lot of interest. "There has been a very good response so far," said a spokeswoman.The three adverts pop up as users of the social networking site contact each other. One, aimed at those with a university background, reads: "Graduates of all ages can develop long-term careers as operational officers, collecting and analysing global intelligence."Another is targeted at those who are bored with their jobs. "Time for a career change? MI6 can use your skills. Join us as an operational officer collecting and analysing global intelligence to protect the UK."The final advert offers potential applicants an influential place in global history. It says: "A career in world events? Help influence world events, protect the UK. Operational officer roles collecting and analysing global intelligence."
MEET THE PIRATESI read with great interest how Cliff Harris went from "being demoralised by pirates to [being] inspired by them" (Developers face up to the pirates, 11th September). True, small-scale developers can be more agile when addressing problems presented by new technologies but, as Bobbie Jonson rightfully points out, Mr Harris's tactic shows a more progressive attitude than the "large stick and small carrot" approach adopted by much of the entertainment industries. The film, TV and music industries are starting to see the value in 'freeconomics' and the power of sharing music and video content. Embracing P2P and social networks creates a low-cost, distribution channel that maximises the reach of your product – fans can access the long-tail of content.  However, creating high-quality music and broadcast content is as costly as it's ever been; viewers need to respect the need for revenue to make attractive, viewable content – Lost is not made on a shoestring!  Protected adverts that can be targeted to exact audiences generate far higher revenues, allowing viewers to download for free, pay by attention, but ensure that their favourite shows can retain their high production values.   Copying and piracy is still a serious issue, it is not a new one, but it continues to evolve. It is clear that pirates cannot always be beaten, so why not join them? As other entertainment industries have demonstrated, online distribution does not always equate to loss of revenue. If games publishers were prepared to approach online distribution with the same level of innovation they bring to game development, consumers will be able to play for free while the industry continues to profit.Ariel Napchi, HIRO MediaThank you for such a great article this should be an inspiration to other game makers and music industries aswell as those who have large budgets employing hundreds of people. Here is the way to resolve the difficaulties of piracy after all we are all wanting the best value for money for our entertainment why should it be more expensive than absolutly necessary. If only more thought were put to resolving piracy this way then only the best game producers ets would be in the industry.Tom Balm (by email)&gt;&gt; Given changes in technology and formats, I think a nosedive was inevitable for music. The industry's fight against piracy does, however, help determine the angle of that nosedive.coolfer.com&gt;&gt; Most of us know that the Internet is for sharing. But it seems to me that some of these pirates want more than their fair share of the pie.cathlawson.com&gt;&gt; I've long held that piracy occurs mainly because publishers (not creatives) fail to engage with the full range of potential customers.Recent legal cases totally miss the point about piracy by actively punishing potential consumers and creating animosity. It will, I am prepared to suggest, lead to more, not less piracy. Also, following the documents one finds that the real beneficiaries were the ISPs who charged tens of thousands of pounds in fees. Not a good way to make friends - especially if you have already hacked them off by suggesting you will introduce Phorm (boo! hiss!)blog.david.bailey.net&gt;&gt; I'm with the pirates on this, though. Most games are just not worth the price. Usually it's because they were thrown out to the market before they were what they could have been because of the time constraints the publishers put on the developers. It's not just a product, it's an art in its own right. and the fact they have to "hollywood" the industry for pure profit turns them into what they're not, toys. It's like rushing out a book, it just ruins the story when you have to cut content and revise the vision it was intended to be, all for the sake of $$.applegeeks.com&gt;&gt; Seems to me if it's illegal, it's illegal. It's not like, oh, I think this pack of gum is overpriced, so I'll take it, although I'd pay a lower price for it. That's still stealing. Of course, you can't spawn packs of gum.. so is there something I'm missing?applegeeks.comNEW IPODSLet's just get this one sorted once and for all, music subscriptions DO NOT WORK.That is why Apple have anot announced one. It's a business model doomed not to succeed, asked Napster (I know, you're thinking who?), Sony and countess others.Possibly Nokia's all you can eat offer is a better way forward, although the mobilephone companies seem to be avoiding it at the moment, due, I would suspect, to the impact it would have on their own models for screwing...I mean obtaining, the maximum amount of cash from their contract users.It would seem most people want to keep thier music and not be tied to some monthly payment that should they stop paying means they loose all their music too.Frankly, I can see why Apple are steering clear.Stephen Hooker, RotherhamWEBSITE FLIPPING&gt;&gt; Sounds far too easy doesn't it? That's what I thought, but then I saw how much money people are making. A domain name costs as little as £10, you spend a couple of hours improving the site, then sell it on ebay for £50 upwards. Imagine how many you could buy and sell a day! Big bucks to be made...I feel an experiment forming!philiphowlett.blogspot.comTHE CIRCUS COMES BACKI am one of those who had not seen Microsoft's Shoe Circus advert until I read your piece. Having seen it on You Tube I am surprised that you are so baffled by it. As you say it's a teaser, so it doesn't have to do much. Isn't it just a brand-awareness ad with some weirdness thrown in? Pretty straightforward, Guinness-like above the line promotion of Microsoft as something other than the mercenary masters-of-the-universe that most of us think them to be.This is Microsoft as cuddly, fun, off-the-wall, masters of self-effacing mirth. There are several references which are not entirely clear, but it never hurts to have a thoughtful Spanish speaker, even if they do think Bill (or is it Jerry?) may be a conquistador. Jerry mentions several times that Bill is a Ten with it's (admittedly 30 year old) associations with Bo Derek, Hollywood etc - but never dis Hollywood. I'm not sure what snack they are eating, but it gives Bill the opportunity to say "I'm good" - how subtle is that? And, assuming it is some bread based foodstuff, the ancient Roman metaphor of keeping the populace under control by giving them 'bread and circuses' is lurking there somewhere... and so on, and so on.Other more obvious themes and messages include:...associating uber-rich geek, Bill Gates with the very popular Jerry Seinfeld. Just because we don't get his show on UK TV doesn't mean it isn't being aired constantly somewhere on US TV (They're still watching I Love Lucy, for God's sake ). Celebrity endorsement works - and nobody really hates Jerry....showing Microsoft as whacky, not geeky, and shows Bill as being up for a bit of self parody, foolishness and surrealist imagery, always a good move in the commercial world if your principal reputation concerns world domination. Banks do it all the time....introduces the edible computer as desirable object and hints, through Bill's adjustment of his shorts, that it is to come and presumably that it will be delicious...and then associates the notion of Delicious with Microsoft and other good things in the foreseeable future, probably software, because we suspect that the edible computer is unlikely to be a big seller anytime soon... and finally you are writing about it and now you've got me at it.Being able to find some logic in the ad does not mean that I think it is the best way to spend a squillion dollars. Personally I think the advertising agency should read your last line as it sums up exactly what Microsoft ought to be doing with this campaign. I speak as someone who spent way too long removing Vista from a new PC to install XP so I could use the damn thing without having to learn a new operating system. I know I will have to address the idiosyncrasies of Vista sooner or later, unless I jump ship and get a Mac. But the thought of having to start using Vista when XP is good enough is just too scary at the moment.Richard Paul-Jones, Brighton&gt;&gt; Chairman Bill is using Jerry Seinfeld to try and connect with real people using Windows Vista. Sad to say, the ads aren't working for me.On a side note, Bill Gates is aging well. Better than Steve Jobs, anyway.rightonblog.com&gt;&gt; Personally, I think [ad agency] CPB could extend this campaign making it more global and show that Microsoft are listening to all customers around the world. Microsoft divide their regions into two separate areas: G7 and G29. It would be great to show Jerry and Bill understanding the other G7 countries that Microsoft spends a lot of money in: Australia, UK, Asia, etc. I can already imagine the token ads for each country, but they would show Microsoft was listening.dominiquehind.wordpress.comLHC, HELLOAs I am sure you are well aware this project is receiving a great deal of attention lately and, as a result, I have read a large number of articles on the subject. I wanted to take the time thank you, this is the first article I have read were someone thought outside the box (I am sure there are others but I have not found them yet)Either for are against the project most articles are written and published by reporters that do not understand what they are writing about, they just want to stir the pot (Again I must point out that I am excluding some of the scientific journals that are being written on the project where you need a PhD, which I do not have, to understand). The article was nicely written and provided a fresh prospective. I have book marked your site because of this article and hope to see the same type of reporting continue.Once again I would like to thank Charles Arthur and the editors at The Guardian for a truly remarkable article. Keep them coming!!!Clayton Benz (by email)&gt;&gt; In short, from an investment perspective, the LHC could be the nexus or the springboard for the next generation technology BOOM and a great enhancer of the lives of our children and hopefully including us, if scientific discoveries arrive on time and at affordable costs.prudentinvestornewsletters.blogspot.com
University of Alaska studentRichard Millayhas popped up with some "Alaska Gold": an old VHS videocassette of the 1984 Miss Alaska Pageant, in which Contestant number 8, Sarah Heath, appears in her swimsuit. She's now better known, of course, as Sarah Palin, governor of Alaska, and would-be US vice president.On YouTube, thevideo posted above(if it still works), has the comment:STOP TAKING IT DOWN YOUTUBE, WE WILL NOT BE SUPPRESSED!!!!There are now multiple versions with added advertising. And when I viewed it on YouTube, Google put an advert next to it … for women's swimwear from www.smarter.comThe 44-second swimsuit section of the video is also appearing on other sites, such as Andy Biao'sWaxy.org.The original poster, Richard Millay, was planning to upload the talent spot where Sarah Palin plays the flute. But by now, there may be men with chequebooks lining up outside his door….The video doesn't look likely to cause Palin any political harm -- just the reverse -- and it more than countersBarack Obama's high school basketball footage, which is also on YouTube.
It was always possible that Google would launch its own browser, but never an obvious move: it would mean undercutting the independent Firefox browser that Google has done so much to support. A Google browser would therefore involve a bit of empire building -- adding to the huge pile of pies in which Google already has sticky fingers -- as well as stabbing its friends in the back. (As one member of the Chrome team said: "The fear was that people were going to read this as sabotaging Firefox.")  But it went ahead anyway….At Wired, Steven Levy has sketched out some of the background inInside Chrome: The Secret Project to Crush IE and Remake the Web. According to this, Google felt it needed to make a fresh start:In the coming era of cloud computing, the Web will be much more than just a means of delivering content — it will be a platform in its own right. The problem with revamping existing browsers to accommodate this concept is that they have developed an ecology of add-on extensions (toolbars, RSS readers, etc.) that would be hopelessly disrupted by a radical upgrade. "As a Firefox developer, you love to innovate, but you're always worried that it means in the next version all the extensions will be broken," Fisher says. "And indeed, that's what happens." The conclusion was obvious: Only by building its own software could Google bring the browser into the cloud age and potentially trigger a spiral of innovation not seen since Microsoft and Netscape one-upped each other almost monthly.Whether this is true or not is, of course, open to debate. As I've already pointed out, there'salmost nothing original in Google Chrome, including Levy's key innovations, "the multiprocess architecture that allowed each open tab to run like a separate, self-contained program" (which is already in the Internet Explorer 8 beta); and "sandboxing," for which Google bought GreenBorder Technologies, and which is already part of Windows Vista. (There are also popular third-party programs, such asSandboxie.)Google can claim it's helping to make PC users more secure, to the extent that Chrome has any market share (maybe 1%, at the moment). But it could probably increase the security of the net much quicker just by encouraging XP users to move to Vista.It's certainly true that Chrome runs JavaScript much faster than any other browser, using V8 technology developed in Denmark by a team headed by computer scientist Lars Bak. It's also true that Google is highly dependent on JavaScript to run all the code downloaded by its applications, such as Gmail. But again, it's not clear Google needed to launch its own browser. Would the Firefox team really have turned down the offer of free open source code that speeded up its JavaScript by 10x?So one conclusion is that Google does have some sort of long-term strategic aim, and this is supported by one of the quotes in the Wired article,"When I joined Google in 2001, Larry and Sergey immediately said, 'We should build our own browser,'" Schmidt says. "And I said no."It wasn't the right time, Schmidt told them. "I did not believe that the company was strong enough to withstand a browser war," he says. "It was important that our strategic aspirations be relatively under the radar."Naturally, Google's plans to take over all the world's information, all the world's advertising, and all the world's applications need to be kept "under the radar" or it might frighten the horses.On the other hand, Google's Android software -- the plan to take over all the world's mobile phones -- needed a browser. Firefox has not pursued mobile, so should Google have done a deal with Opera, Apple or Microsoft? Maybe not. And if it was going to put a lightweight mobile browser into Android, it would make a lot of sense for Google to offer a browser for PC users as well. No conspiracy theory is required.
It is generally considered poor form, when you are ostensibly a grown-up, to weep because you can't reverse park your car. But here I am, in an empty car park in north London, early in the morning, howling because I haven't backed into bay nine. It might be acceptable were I alone, but I'm not - my extraordinarily patient driving instructor, Gary Lamb, is taking this display of childish petulance in his stride, as he does everything, including our frequently shared near-death experiences. I am crying because my driving test is two weeks away, and in spite of six months of lessons, I seem to be getting worse.However, this is not true: I am not getting worse, and the very fact that I am sitting in a driving seat at all is a miracle directly attributable to Gary. Ten years ago, when I learned to drive the first time, two things happened: first, I discovered that I hated driving, was rubbish at it, and felt very strongly that I was in no way sensible enough to be given control of a hulking ball of metal with an accelerator. Second, one night I arrived at the aftermath of an accident in which a drunk driver killed someone I knew, and I more or less never got back into the driving seat.For years after, I was a terrible, hysterical passenger, jumping out of friends' cars at traffic lights if they drove too fast or sitting rigid with fear. I never wanted to learn to drive again - and anyway could always kid myself that it was an eco decision (which rings very hollow if you count the number of lifts I've blagged). But by late last year, work had become tricky without a licence, people were sick of ferrying me about like a princess and I realised I'd spent well over &pound;250 in a single month on taxis.All of which led me to Gary at BSM Baker Street, who is specially trained to teach panic-addled lunatics like me (actually, he's trained to teach pretty much anyone to drive pretty much anything: he's a sort of driving guru). Since I was too scared to get into the actual car, the first few lessons took place in BSM's driving simulator - working through the programme's different levels, I could plough into the verge without hurting anyone, stall without being rear-ended, and remember where the gears were. In fact, I would quite happily have continued puttering around BSM's one-dimensional traffic system forever. Gary was having none of that, though, and calmly lured me into a real car with the proviso that we'd 'just have a little look at the controls, maybe turn the engine on and off'. This was all part of his cunning plan, and before I knew what was happening he'd got me to move off and do all sorts of crazy manoeuvres, turning corners and everything.This pattern was repeated over the next few months: I'd be pootling along a quiet side road, when he'd make me turn left, and I'd unexpectedly find myself on a dual carriageway, too near certain death to have the panic attack I'd have preferred. Yes, I finished each lesson an emotional wreck, but before I knew it I could more or less drive, and Gary had made me book a test. Three weeks ago I passed, vindicating his opinion (not mine) that I'm a pretty decent driver.No doubt it won't be the last time I cry over a space, but at least now I know I'll be able to park when I finally find an empty one.• BSM (08457 276 276;bsm.co.uk).  Lessons with Gary Lamb start at &pound;29.50
1961 Jaguar E Type. Photograph: Tif Hunter1961 Jaguar E-typeSensual, sublime and hedonistic, the E-Type defined the sexual aura of the SixtiesThe Jaguar E-Type is the most exciting and beautiful car ever designed for mass production. People were almost tearfully astonished by its winning combination of sensuality, technology and availability. It seemed to predict the democratisation of pleasure that was the keynote address of the Sixties. The design drew on Jaguar's backlist of glorious shapes, most particularly Malcolm Sayer's D-Type - a successful racing car designed by men in brown coats, and a brilliant demonstration of the art and craft of penetration. A later Jaguar designer, Geoff Lawson, called it 'the optimum expression of steel'. Its phallic proportions amaze but are moderated by the sober and balanced composition; details have a feminine delicacy. The first production car in New York's Museum of Modern Art, it makes contemporary sculpture look ham-fisted. The E-Type is proof that cars can be sublime works of art.1952 Bentley R Type. Photograph: Tif Hunter1952 Bentley R-typeWith its combination of good breeding and flair, the R-Type became the first Bond carThis was the fastest four-seater car of its day, but also the most elegant and refined. It is the quintessence of English handsomeness, but paradoxically - since it was built for the postwar export drive - it wasn't made for English customers and the architecture, oddly for something so absolutely English, owes much to contemporary Americana. The designer was John Blatchley, who learnt his trade at the traditional Gurney Nutting coachbuilders, where he became chief designer at the age of 23. His R-Type Continental has an aristocratic bearing, but is at the same time unostentatious and understated. Throughout the Fifties, the R-Type Continental was considered one of the most beautiful and desirable cars in the world, so when James Bond made his debut in the 1953 book Casino Royale, Ian Fleming had him in a fictional Bentley Mk IV. But the Continental was surely the car Fleming had in mind for literature's most famous modern Englishman.1968 Ferrari Daytona. Photograph: Tif Hunter1968 Ferrari DaytonaA road car with a racing pedigree, the 365/GTB4 captured Ferrari's glory daysAt a lunch meeting in Tortona in 1951, Enzo Ferrari declared his disappointment with the image of his cars, since they were being bodied by different coachbuilders. His lunch companion, Battista 'Pinin' Farina, decided to take responsibility. A quarter of a century later, a Ferrari design language had been clearly established and the 365/GTB4, as it is correctly known, was its ultimate expression. The Daytona was named, with an eye to the American market, after a famous victory in the 24-hour race at the Daytona Speedway in Florida in 1967 when three Ferrari sports racers crossed the line abreast. This is not the purest Ferrari, but it is one of the most significant. It is a Ferrari conceived not as a racing car but as a luxury product, and it has styling to match. A few years later, the Ferrari factory withdrew from sports car racing and a vital creative source was lost. The Daytona was the last of its type.1953 Chevrolet Corvette. Photograph: Tif Hunter1953 Chevrolet CorvetteAn iconic two-seater that embodied the American consumer dream of the FiftiesThe 'Vette was America's first sports car, a Detroit response to the waves of small British two-seaters which had started the California sports car cult in the years after 1945. It was the first production car anywhere to have plastic body panels (although the chassis was resolutely old-regime steel). Chevrolet's parent, General Motors, had been the first manufacturer to understand the practicalities and psychology of colour when it began to exploit the new DuPont lacquers in the late Twenties. The first batch of Corvettes were all Polo white with Sportsman red vinyl interiors (the names are revealing of social ambitions). Styling was a shameless display of sexual suggestiveness: the soft red cockpit within a white body may have been unconscious, but was nonetheless dramatically effective. In 1960 the car was canonised by the Route 66 television show. It was America at its best, a product of the optimistic mid-Fifties when consumer dreams of the past came true.1953 AC Ace. Photograph: Tif Hunter1953 AC AceAggressively masculine, the Cobra quickly became the archetypal penis extensionNo car is better evidence of the miscegenated bloodlines and complex lineaments that comprised the mid-century motor industry. Despite its bastard origins, mixed marriages, reckless flirtations and dubious encounters, the AC Ace mutated, by accident and design, into one of the most archetypal sports cars ever - rather as Jean Lorrain once said, a bad reputation never did anyone any harm. The original AC company was an antique survival of pioneer British vehicle manufacturing. Based in Thames Ditton, Surrey, it survived thanks to a contract to produce invalid carriages for the government. At least that was true until 1963 when a Texan chicken farmer and racing driver called Carroll Shelby had the happy idea of inserting a powerful American Ford '289' V8 into the unassuming AC Ace. He named it the Cobra. The engine had a transformational effect on the Ace's performance. Shelby then employed some of the graphic language of American hot-rodding to turn a well-mannered English sports car into a swollen phallus of visual aggression. Ride height was lowered and wheel arches enhanced snugly to accommodate dramatic dragster wheels. Scoops were enlarged, ducts added, chrome details judiciously employed. The Cobra influenced nothing, but was an exquisite example of itself.1951 Lancia Aurelia H20 GT. Photograph: Tif Hunter1951 Lancia Aurelia B20 GTThe world's first Grand Tourer - with a body shape that launched a thousand copiesNearly 300 years ago, the yearning for the south led the British to invent tourism and shopping. They called it the Grand Tour. The type of car that later evolved to meet the needs of trans-European travel was called a Gran Turismo in deference to this tradition. Indeed, Anglophile associations with driving across France and Italy became so profound that the leading Milanese carrozzeria of the last century called itself Touring, since the English word conjured up notions of style and gentility that, at the time, the Italians felt were beyond their reach. The very first car to be called a GT was the Lancia Aurelia B20, a coup&eacute; version of the 1951 Aurelia B10 saloon. The first cars were manufactured by Carrozzeria Viotti, but Pininfarina soon took over production. The Aurelia B20 GT was the very essence of bella figura and defined a lasting automobile type. It was a Lancia B20 which the elder Farina and his son Sergio used in 1951 to travel from Turin to Tortona to meet Enzo Ferrari for lunch. Each proud man had been reluctant to play host, but the lunch concluded in an agreement that thereafter Ferrari's image would be managed by the Farina family. The Lancia B20 may thus have been influential in one of the greatest aesthetic adventures of the industrial period.1949 Porche 356. Photograph: Tif Hunter1949 Porsche 356The car with an 'impossible design' that paved the way for the legendary Porsche 911Chief designer Karl Rabe began working on the private project that became the Porsche 356 at Gmund in Carinthia, Austria, in 1946. To this remote spot, the Porsche Konstruktionsburo-f&uuml;r-Motoren-Fahrzeug-Luftfahrzeug-und-Wasserhahrzeugbau had removed itself after its wartime design consultancy that included the V-1 buzz-bomb and Porsche Typ 205, better known as the Maus tank. The Porsche 356 became a reality on 8 June 1948: a two-seater sports car of exceptional lightness and purity of concept. Using standard Volkswagen components, it was designed to achieve ideal performance/weight ratios and to offer minimal resistance to the air. The bonnet of this rear-engined car was not low-slung just for aerodynamic penetration: Porsche theory insisted that the driver should be in emotional contact with the road. In 1950 Porsche moved to a factory in Zuffenhausen, a Stuttgart suburb, and began production of the 'German' 356. The first production car was known as the Windhund (or Wind Hound) on account of its Irish wolfhound coloration. With this car Erwin Komenda developed an experimental technical prototype into a mature shape and in so doing created what has become the Porsche signature. Dr Porsche died in January 1951. American importer Max Hoffman told the younger Ferry Porsche: 'That design is absolutely impossible.' This absolutely impossible design eventually evolved into the Porsche 911, perhaps the greatest sports car ever made.1948 Jaguar XK120. Photograph: Tif Hunter1948 Jaguar XK120The definitive English sports car had the curves to make even Clark Gable swoonThis is the car that made Jaguar's reputation. Perhaps the most perfectly complete expression of the English sports car, it is also a fairly complete expression of English genius in all its flawed, opportunistic, eccentric originality. The streamlined shape was a sensation when it appeared in the drab, rationed environment of the 1948 London Motor Show. At the time, Elizabeth David was researching her book Mediterranean Food, launched two years later into an England still eating beige soup and rissoles. The XK120 was an automotive expression of similar yearnings. Jaguar's presiding genius, Sir William Lyons, said the XK120 took just two weeks from concept to a full-sized mock-up. Artistically it is a satisfying combination of being apparently simple - a clear, unified, flowing form with no fussy effects - and also extremely subtle. No car body has ever made such voluptuous but disciplined use of curves. To build on the sensational consumer response, Jaguar did a well-publicised speed trial. On 30 May 1949, with Ron 'Soapy' Sutton at the wheel, a virtually standard XK120 reached a record speed of 132.6mph on a Belgian autoroute near Jabbeke, close to Ostend. Lyons observed the achievement of his beautiful car from a chartered Douglas DC-3 circling overhead. In California, taking a break from the movies, Clark Gable road-tested the car for the March 1950 edition of Road &amp; Track, announcing himself astonished. Humphrey Bogart was another signatory to the Jaguar cult. The original price of the XK120 was &pound;998.1955 Mga. Photograph: Tif Hunter1955 MGAShockingly radical, the MGA was Oxfordshire's gift to the Californian sports car cultThe distinctive MG octagonal badge, rumoured to have been inspired by a plan of Abingdon Prison's Panopticon, was in fact an Art Deco confection drawn in 1923 by company accountant Edmund Lee. The spirit of MG is rooted in the mid-Twenties, when the Paris Exposition des Arts D&eacute;coratifs gave its name to cheerful, content-free modernisme. The letters stand for 'Morris Garages' and up to the mid-Fifties, MG produced uncomplicated two-seaters. The TC, TD and TF were the Old English Perpendicular of sports cars, and their charm, simplicity and quintessentially English pragmatism made them the basis of California's sports car cult - without MG there would never have been Corvettes or Thunderbirds. The MGA represented a dramatic break with tradition. It arose from Syd Enever's attempts to do an all-enveloping race-car body for the old sit-up-and-beg TD. It did not work out, so he started again. The MGA was shockingly radical for MG: its first car with a full-width body. Drawing with tact and restraint, the anonymous draughtsman was sure that he could achieve his effects through understatement and well-judged radii rather than showy flourishes. With intuitive aerodynamics, low aspect and modest details, it was outstandingly modern for its day (even if the components remained antique). The US advertisements said: 'Designed to steal your heart... There's promise of action in every line.' The MGA was the last admired product of the famous Oxfordshire company.1955 Citreon DS. Photograph: Tif Hunter1955 Citro&euml;n DSIn its day, the 'Goddess' was the most beautiful - and advanced - car ever builtPerhaps the single greatest automobile design of all time, the DS is an objet superlatif. In a way, it was a product of what Curnonsky called 'la sainte alliance' between gastronomy and tourism. When Andr&eacute; Citro&euml;n's prodigal creativity drove Citro&euml;n into bankruptcy in 1934, the company was bought by the Michelin Tyre Company. Monsieur Bibendum was the device that encouraged motorists to travel to eat. We call the DS a Citro&euml;n, but it might as well be a Bibendum. An advanced flat-six engine was planned for this car, but budget constraints meant it actually used the same one as the 1934 Traction Avant. But budget was the only constraint: in every other respect, the DS was the most extreme, advanced and accomplished car ever made. And the body was drawn by the same man, Flaminio Bertoni. In 1938 Pierre Boulanger had started a notebook dedicated to the voiture de grande diffusion. He said to his team, 'Study all the possibilities, including the impossible.' Boulanger was killed in 1950 while testing the car, but he had already refined the brief: 'The world's most beautiful, most comfortable and most advanced car, a masterpiece to show the world... that Citro&euml;n and France could develop the ultimate vehicle.' Bertoni achieved the greatest-ever work of automobile art. 'D&eacute;esse' meant Goddess. First shown without wheels and tyres so as not to compromise the consumers' perception of its pure sculptural form, it was the car that inspired Roland Barthes. 'Smoothness,' he said, 'is always an attribute of perfection.'
Egham has been named the spam capital of Britain. Workers in the Surrey town find their inboxes bulging with 189 junk emails a day, a higher average per person than anywhere else in the country, new figures reveal.Users of business email in Alton and Petersfield, both in Hampshire, are hit by an average of 167 and 116 spams a day respectively, according to a survey by the internet security company MessageLabs. The next worst hit towns are Sutton Coldfield in the Midlands, Sutton in south London, and Macclesfield in Cheshire. None of the UK's biggest cities appeared inside the top 25, with London ranked 28th, Manchester 81st, Leeds 91st, Liverpool 99th, Newcastle 166th and Bristol 167th.Fareham on the south coast is the spammers' least favourite target, with business users receiving on average just two junk emails a week.
A car is the most symbolically rich thing we ever buy. No other artefact requires such investment of energy, money and passion to manufacture. No other artefact sucks such cupidity and yearning from its consumers. Cars are overwhelmingly potent, and there are reasonable and rational forces trying to curtail our use of them, but once - as Henry Ford realised long ago - you've let the genie of consumer freedom out of the box, there's no putting it back.And as John Steinbeck noted, the popularity of the Model T means 'two generations of Americans know more about the Ford coil than the clitoris, about the planetary system of gears than the solar system'. Earlier artists also caught the erotic sense of speed machines. At the beginning of the 20th century, futurist Filippo Tommaso Marinetti said: 'I became inflamed with the fever and desire of the steely breaths from your full nostrils!I finally unleash your metallic bride...' Was he addressing his car or his mistress? Or both? It is a positional dilemma still known today. But the great age of car design could not outlive the destructive success of the machine which, as if a classical myth, has systematically destroyed its own support system. Between the Forties and Seventies, cars of astonishing commercial beauty were manufactured.The relationship between cars and sex is deep. Like all matters of aesthetics, the answer to the question 'What makes a car sexy?' has direct and associational aspects. A car's shape has a direct effect on us: sensuous surfaces, voluptuous radii, masculine girth and aggressive projections all have an erotic character. The associations are more subtle, but perhaps more significant. Words readily associated with cars - speed, performance, pleasure, danger - are an occult vocabulary of sex. Factor in notions of comfort, security and texture, and you have the pre-eminent mechanical aphrodisiac.But with the first oil shock of 1973, a book ever so quietly closed. Ever since, cars with a sexual character have been pornographic rather than erotic: parodic and preposterous, not essential and sublime. A moment has passed with a whiff of leather and hot oil.The 10 sexiest cars ever1949 Porche 356&nbsp;1961 Jaguar E Type&nbsp;1951 Lancia Aurelia H20 GT&nbsp;1948 Jaguar XK120&nbsp;1968 Ferrari Daytona&nbsp;1952 Bentley R Type&nbsp;1953 AC Ace&nbsp;1953 Chevrolet Corvette&nbsp;1955 Citreon DS&nbsp;1955 Mga&nbsp;
Metallica's ninth studio album, Death Magnetic, may be topping the charts, but some fans are signingan online petitionthat asks the band to re-mix the album and release it again. The problem is the usual one: it has been mixed to sound loud, which has crippled the dynamic range. As one fan says, "Sonically it is barely listenable," according to a report inThe Wall Street Journal. The paper says:Metallica and the album's producer, Rick Rubin, declined to comment. Cliff Burnstein, Metallica's co-manager, says the complainers are a tiny minority. He says 98% of listeners are "overwhelmingly positive," adding: "There's something exciting about the sound of this record that people are responding to."However, Ted Jensen, who mastered the album, emailed one complaining fan to say: "Believe me, I'm not proud to be associated with this one."Mr Jensen regrets his choice of words but not the sentiment. "I'm not sure I would have said quite the same thing if I was posting it to the bulletin board," he says. But "it's certainly the way I feel about it."This is, as the Journal says, a long-running argument. I raised it here in 2006 with a post that saidCD mastering is killing music, with reference to a cover story by Joe Gross in XL Recording Studio Guide 2006:Everything Louder Than Everything Else. I also linked to a paper (PDF) with a historical list of CDs and the amount of excess compression they used.(Note: the problem isaudio level compression-- raising the average sound level -- notaudio data compression. Most people experience it when it's used to make TV adverts sound much louder than TV programmes.)In January 2007, the topic was taken up by Tim Anderson in a Technology section story,How CDs are remastering the art of noise, where remastering engineer Steve Hoffman explained how it could be done:"A lot of signal processing is in the mastering stage, the type of processing that was almost impossible in the old days of analogue," says Hoffman. "Now you have digital workstations which mercilessly zap all the dynamics out of music. The other problem is overuse of equalisation (EQ). Equalisation done digitally is very harsh, and most mastering engineers tend to overuse it. You just crank up the EQ and then you compress it digitally so everything sounds like a machine gun, and then it all sounds really loud."Unfortunately, once the dynamics are shaved off music, it's impossible to get them back," says Hoffman. "It doesn't matter what volume you're playing at. When everything is loud, it doesn't sound loud any more. The only way that something can sound loud is if there's something quiet that precedes it, or else there's no frame of reference."The problem is, that: "Over the years, rock and pop artists have increasingly sought to make their recordings sound louder to stand out on the radio, jukeboxes and, especially, iPods," says the WSJ. And in my experience, the more music is mastered to sound loud on very limited music systems, the worse it sounds when you play it back on decent hi-fi.And if people only listen to music mastered to sound loud on very limited music systems, how are they supposed to know what it could -- and should -- sound like?Well, the Metallica petition has an amusing comment:Having heard samples from Guitar Hero 3, it is clear that something can be done to redeem this album. The album sounds 100x better on a video game than it does on CD or vinyl! Welcome to 2008!
Chris's girlfriend Jeanne thinks he's got commitment issues and is unromantic, so he's hatched an elaborate plan to prove her wrong. One day soon he's going to surprise her at her work with a coffee and stay to chat for a few minutes. While he's there a mysterious package for Jeanne will arrive in reception - it'll contain a Tom Tom GPS with the first clue of a treasure hunt that will take her on a picturesque road trip ending up at a lighthouse where Chris will propose. The whole plan, road trip and Jeanne's answer are hosted on this site (which Chris has cleverly blocked her personal computer from seeing). Wouldn't it be great if she said no?
Some tipsfor a classy weddingHow to stoppeople stealing your sarniesThe futureof newspapers is edibleAbout the manwho took a photo of himself every day for 17 yearsThe Arctic Monkeyslive film is on at the cinemaKiss a pigand you may like itThe historyof the smileyHow to finddeleted wikipedia entriesIn Silence Of The LambsHannibal Lecter never blinksSamuel L Jacksondoes great yelling
Atari abandons boxesApart from a lone, slightly dusty ray of sunshine in the shape of the maligned latest instalment of Alone In The Dark, Atari's release schedule over the past few years has been a fairly desultory affair, which is why the publisher's announcement that it plans to withdraw almost completely from selling boxed videogames will be greeted with mild interest rather than deep concern. Far from abandoning games, Atari's plan is to move its business online, with a renewed focus on episodic gaming as part of a deal with the Japanese entertainment giant Namco Bandai. While the name Atari is still synonymous with the classic mock-wood VCS console that more or less started it all in the late-70s, its name was bought by French company Infogrames less than a decade ago to launch the slightly ailing brand it is today. Let's hope the move online helps to shake it free of that rut of mediocrity.
I've upgraded to the iPhone and am searching for a hi-fi docking station that is compatible with it. What would you recommend?Although not many speaker systems claim 100% compatibility with the iPhone, most work fine. When you plug it in, you may get the option to switch the phone to airplane mode (to reduce interference), but it's really only a problem when a call or text arrives. Amazon is currently selling the smooth Klipsch iGroove system for &pound;90, while at the high end of the market Bose's SoundDock Portable (around &pound;280) is well recommended. Don't forget: if you're shopping online and worried about what you might end up with, then go the old-fashioned way - take yourself off to a shop and plug yourself in.You recently explained how to convert VHS tapes to DVD, but did not deal with the transfer of speech subtitles for the hard of hearingNot everybody is aware that VHS tapes contain hidden caption information for use by deaf people and the hard of hearing. Fortunately, I've been told that most converter systems will transfer the captions as well - however, before you buy, double-check with the manufacturer.&#183;email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
