"Come quick!" the PES fan shouts, as if peering from his bedroom window and seeing fresh snow. "It's back!" It happens every year – this hoped for resurgence. Later, brash words are rescinded and shoelaces gazed at. PES 2014 earned a deserved four stars in our recent review, but against what a hopeful community tells you, this is not the year PES beats Fifa. That's the curious thing about their great rivalry. PES continually improves and Fifa doesn't – at least to the naked eye. Yet, Fifa is, still, better.After a decade of juggling between the two, I've settled on this analogy: PES is chess, Fifa is draughts. Both have their virtues, but draughts works better as a video game, more immediate, easier on beginners, and generally more fun. Fifa 14's new Pure Shot mechanic fits all three criteria in one. Essentially, efforts on goal have a greater tendency to dip, bend and rise, giving them ferocious unpredictability. It's difficult not to feel a flutter in your gut as the ball falls to your long distance specialist on the edge of the box.Thunderous volleys, first-time belters and off-balance lashes — they look natural and feel right, thanks to improved ball physics and a slew of new contextual animations.Keep in mind, long shots aren't a magic button. They're actually less frequent, and this is thanks to EA's other new back-of-the-box feature – Precision Movement. So-called 'stepbased location' is a technical triumph, players now weightily planting feet when running and pushing off from pivots, but it's an awkward fumble of a feature in practice.For one, players take ages to get going. The effectiveness of a simple turn, bread and butter of football, has been neutralised in the maelstrom of 22 men on the pitch, all dizzyingly scrambling for ball possession and losing it just as quickly. In Fifa 14, thanks to clumsy new biomechanics, space is a truly rare commodity.Attacking is revitalised by Pure Shot, but Precision Movement clogs midfield and defence. Matches aren't ruined by any means – rather, they're simply thrown off in a second. Problem is, in a high-tempo game like Fifa, with its tight margins for error and all-important timing, that second counts. However slight, the complexion is altered.Off the pitch, things could have been equally clogged if not for revitalised Windows 8-style menus that cleanly whizz you through skill games (navigate imposing gauntlets of yellow plastic men and knock down evil towers of cardboard boxes), a creation centre (create and share custom players, teams and tournaments) and market (buy vintage kits, virtual pro boosts and cocky celebrations with coins earned online).Most substantial is Ultimate Team, which, EA is keen to tell us, hosts 3.5m matches daily. No huge improvements here, but it does streamline the previously arduous organisation of online single matches and seasons, and the ability to change kit numbers and set-piece takers in addition is community wish fulfilment. New chemistry styles are welcome, too. There are a variety of them; you can, for instance, apply a defensive chemistry style to a defender in order to boost their performance. It's contributes fresh complexity towards chasing the rainbow of your dream team.Likewise, the career sees only minor changes. It's still split between player and manager – both options let you control the entire team, but the former can use their virtual pro and skip all the management gubbins. It still serves up emails from the board and transfer gossip on the wire to keep you involved (Soldado isn't happy at Spurs. Oh). And it's still meshed together by an agonisingly slow calendar system that ticks through each day like the life cycle of a star. Transfers have at least had a facelift, though.Along with more hurdles to jump for a signature, such as promising players match time and checking they're nice and marginalised at their current squad before prowling, there's a new global scouting network. Here you'll employ up to six scouts of varying knowhow, set parameters, and send them off. You can find and nurture an unknown prodigy in the youth team or get beads on established names, learning cost and wage demands so you can make a bid that won't be laughingly dismissed. As a result, wheeling, dealing, and finally securing that hot prospect is much more rewarding.Online, aside from two v two co-op seasons, Fifa 14 doesn't have any big new mode to show off. But that's OK because they've just about got the entire sport covered anyway, from user-made pro clubs with customisable kits, to 10-game seasons where players fight each other for promotion, to full on 11 v 11 matches. Any one could easily see you through to next season.The game's difference-maker is entirely on the pitch – that new movement system. In multiplayer especially, where the absence of an all-knowing AI sees imperfect humans make repeated mistakes, it leads to slightly clumsier, boggier, slower matches. All the same, the change is only incremental, and doesn't ruin the game by any means.You know this by now – things in EA Sports land either get slightly better or slightly worse, and whatever side of the dial the year's instalment ticks into, what you're getting remains the same: the most fun and feature-rich sports games on the planet. Still.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Apple has released an update for its iOS 7 software to close a security flaw in its lockscreen which hadallowed people to bypass the protection and hack into the owner's content.The iOS 7.0.2 version began showing up as an update for phones on Thursday night, six days after the flaw was discovered. It is also available for the newer iPhone 5s and 5c, although the bug was not demonstrated on those phones, as it adds the option for a Greek keyboard option for passcode entry.The download, which varies in size from 17MB to 20MB depending on the device, is free.The bug used a weakness in the new Control Center feature in iOS 7 which offers rapid access to functions including the camera, calculator, alarms and a torch even from the lockscreen. A hacker who used the right sequence of keypresses could access user data including photos, email, Twitter, Facebook and Twitter accounts, which they could edit or use, and also send text messages - though they could not read email.The update has come comparatively quickly from Apple, which has in the past typically taken at least two weeks to close such security holes when they have been found.A separate bug in which a specific string of Unicode text could crash browsers and apps which viewed it using iOS 6 apparently was not dealt with for months, though it is fixed as part of iOS 7's text handling.It's unclear whether the fix also closes a security hole which could let people make calls to any number via the emergency call screen.
Google is celebrating its 15th birthday with a piñata doodle appearing on its home page.Users hit a swinging piñata with a stick using the space bar to release sweets and earn points.The internet search company also announced on its birthday that it had updated its search algorithm to make it more responsive to user requests.The overhaul came as part of an update called Hummingbird that Google has gradually rolled out in the past month without disclosing the modifications.The changes could have a major impact on traffic to websites. Hummingbird represents the most dramatic alteration to Google's search engine since it revised the way it indexes websites three years ago as part of a redesign called Caffeine, according to Amit Singhal, a senior vice-president for the company. He estimates that the redesign will affect the analysis of about 90%of the search requests that Google gets.Any reshuffling of Google's search rankings can have sweeping ramifications because they steer so much of the internet's traffic. Google fields about two out of every three search requests in the US and handles an even larger volume in some parts of Europe. The changes could also drive up the price of Google ads tied to search requests if websites whose rankings are demoted under the new system feel they have to buy the marketing messages to attract traffic.The search ads and other commercial pitches related to web content account for most of Google's revenue, which is expected to approach $60bn this year.Google disclosed the existence of the new search formula on Thursday at an event held in the Menlo Park, California, garage where Larry Page and fellow co-founder Sergey Brin started the company 15 years ago.Google celebrates its birthday on 27 September each year, even though the company was incorporated a few weeks earlier. The company is now based in Mountain View, California, at a sprawling complex located about seven miles from the 1,900-square-foot home where Page and Brin paid $1,700 per month to rent the garage and a bedroom. The co-founders' landlord was Susan Wojcicki, who is now a Google executive and Brin's sister-in-law.Wojcicki sold the home to Google in 2006 and it is now maintained as a monument to the company's humble beginnings.Google's renovations to its search engine haven't triggered widespread complaints from other websites yet, suggesting that the revisions haven't resulted in a radical reshuffling in how websites rank in the recommendations. The Caffeine update spurred a loud outcry because it explicitly sought to weed out websites that tried to trick Google's search engine into believing their content was related to common search requests. After Caffeine kicked in, hundreds of websites that consistently won a coveted spot near the top of Google's search results had been relegated to the back pages or exiled completely.Hummingbird is primarily aimed at giving Google's search engine a better grasp at understanding concepts instead of mere words, Singhal said.The change needed to be done, Singhal said, because people have become so reliant on Google that they now routinely enter lengthy questions into the search box instead of just a few words related to specific topics.With the advent of smartphones and Google's voice-recognition technology, people also are increasingly submitting search requests in sequences of spoken sentences that resemble an ongoing conversation. That trend also factored into Google's decision to hatch Hummingbird.Just as Page and Brin set out to do when they started Google in a garage, "we want to keep getting better at helping you make the most of your life," Singhal said.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Office of Fair Trading warns devs on high-pressure monetisation | GamesIndustry InternationalThe Office of Fair Trading has devised eight principles for the makers of 'freemium' games for children:The OFT's stance follows an investigation - which began in April - into free online apps and games for children. After examining 38 different games, the OFT has drafted a eight "principles" that developers should follow to avoid the possibility of coercing younger gamers into spending money on free-to-play games."This is a new and innovative industry that has grown very rapidly in recent years, but it needs to ensure it is treating consumers fairly and that children are protected," said Cavendish Elithorn, executive director of the OFT.PS4 and Xbox One not ready for photorealistic visuals, say tool providers | Game Development | DevelopAt the Develop conference in Brighton this summer, Epic Games' technical whiz Tim Sweeney suggested that gaming visuals would reach photo-realism within the next decade. Some graphics tools developers are not so sure:"For pure rendering it might be true," Masaki Kawase, lead software engineer and shader architect at Silicon Studio, told Develop when we asked him his view on Sweeney's prediction."The human eye might not distinguish the difference between still images like pictures compared side by side. However, as soon as humans interact with photorealistic graphics, they would look artificial rather quickly."Well, for me, there were moments watching the Xbox One version of Fifa that I thought it was TV footage. But then I was at Gamescom, it was dark, I was a bit tired. But still..."Proper cause to celebrate": Sony rediscovers its disruptive roots with PS4 | VG247Sony UK's Fergal Gara has been speaking to VG247 about the run-up to the PS4 launch, and the PlayStation's 20th birthday. The company is feeling rather confident:"The demand is absolutely there, and there's lots of finishing touches to the launch plan, but right now, a lot of what we're doing is a bit of returning to what made PlayStation great originally. It's about revisiting those key moments in our history and trying to reignite some of those. You can expect to see a non-corporate strategy from us, for want of a better word. I don't want to reveal everything now, but it'll be proper cause to celebrate, and to celebrate our history."Resident Evil 4 Came Out of the 'Commercial Failure' of RE: Remake | IGNSurvival horror fans musn't miss this IGN interview with Resi Evil creator, Shinji Mikami, who talks about the essence of the genre and the origins of arguable its finest moment, Resident Evil 4 (though some would say Resi 2, of course. Or Silent Hill 2. Or Project Zero...):"If you want to keep a great horror game franchise, you have to work with people who really like horror games. If you bring in developers from other places, you're going to end up with a more action-oriented game. With Resident Evil 4, I intended to make more of an action game – 5 and 6 were outside of my responsibility, of course – but with Resident Evil 2 and 3, that wasn't necessarily the intention I started with. They just naturally became more like action games. I suspect that Dead Space followed the same path."Whydodevelopers keep making that mistake?!GTA 5: Help us solve the game's BIG hidden conspiracy (POTENTIAL SPOILERS) | CVG UKDan Dawkins, who wrote our feature on GTA's finest moments, is a great writer on hidden meanings and conspiracies in game design. Usually it's Metal Gear Solid, but now, as co-presenter of GTA V O'clock, he's feverishly obsessing over Rockstar's latest – especially the game's weird, partially hidden UFO obsession:As we speak, GTA fans are flexing their detective skills on sub-Reddits and forum threads, debating pictures of in-game graffiti, curious murals and 'phantom' UFO sightings. Bottom line: the Internet hive mind thinks that 100% completing GTA V - a task that takes 50 to 60 hours - is when the race for its ultimate prize begins.What is going on? If the truth is out there, Dan will find it.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDrive-by Wi-Fi attacks against Android + the beginning of defense &gt;&gt; Kismet WirelessThere's a drive-by attack possible against the ad networks used in Android apps:Mobile devices (not just Android) are especially vulnerable to Wi-Fi hijacking attacks because they will promiscuously roam to anything that looks like an access point they know, even when the user isn't paying attention.On Android, official apps like Google Maps and Google Now even suggest you always leave Wi-Fi enabled, so that Wi-Fi based positioning will work more accurately.  This means the device is constantly looking to join networks, and constantly at risk for random hijackers.The one glimmer here is that most ad-driven applications are required to only show ads when the user is actually looking - they probably won't be loading new ads constantly while the screen is off, though who knows for sure.  Unfortunately this won't prevent users who have their devices on - doing whatever users do, connecting to random Wi-Fi networks.A $849 64GB iPhone 5s only costs Apple $218 to build &gt;&gt; ZDNetAccording to a teardown analysis carried out analysts at IHS, a top-of-the-line 64GB iPhone 5s, which retails unlocked for $849, costs Apple a mere $218 to build, a price that includes the manufacturing costs.The build price difference between this and the 16GB iPhone 5s is less than $20, and yet Apple charges consumers a whopping $200 for the extra 48GB of storage.Bono says Apple has raised over $65 million for Product Red AIDS fund &gt;&gt; The VergeU2 lead singer Bono today revealed that Apple has so far raised over $65m for his Product Red fund. According to the frontman, Apple is "certainly leading the crew" of companies that contribute to the initiative. Since joining the charity campaign in 2006, Apple has steadily released Product Red iPods, cases, and other accessories, with portions of each sale going towards the fight against AIDS.End User Devices Security and Configuration Guidance &gt;&gt; CESG - GOV.UK"Draft configuration guidance for the use of a wide range of mobile platforms for remote working at OFFICIAL [sic]". It's the UK government's BYOD guide for non-restricted access by civil servants' own devices.Now includes Android 4.2, BlackBerry 10.1, Apple iOS 6, Windows 7 and 8, Windows Phone 8 (for the first time), Windows 8 RT (aka Surface), Ubuntu 12.04, Apple Mac OS X 10.8, and Google Chrome OS 26.The only "application development guidance" is for iOS, oddly.Exclusive: next for Nest: a smoke detector &gt;&gt; jessica lessinSmart thermostat-maker Nest Labs has been developing a smoke detector that could go on sale as soon as later this year, we have learned from people close to the startup.Why are we telling you about a potential new smoke detector? Good question.The device will be the technology company's latest trojan horse into your home, which it wants to make as easy to control as a computer or smartphone. Think of it as the next node in the home network Nest is building device by device with the original thermostat as the hub.Aren't smoke alarms the ultimate dumb-but-essential device? Unlike a thermostat, it's hard to see how you build 'intelligence' into one.Windows is losing ground among enterprise developers as Android gains &gt;&gt; CITEworldAppcelerator has queried IT directors, CEOs, development directors, CTOs and people in a number of other roles what their priorities are in the mobile market. The results hint at how the enterprise arena is slipping away from Microsoft, while at the same time acceptance for Android is growing and iOS is the number one priority.As part of the survey, Appcelerator asked the 804 participants how interested they were in developing consumer and enterprise apps for the various mobile platforms. Apple was on top, with 80% saying they were very interested in developing applications for the company's smartphones and tablets, which is roughly the same response elicited by the first quarter version of the survey.The third-highest priority was Android-based smartphones, which 71% of the respondents said they were very interested in, an increase of 7 percentage points from the first quarter. But unlike Apple, Google and its hardware partners have so far failed to convince enterprises that Android-based tablets are as important as smartphones based on the OS: 59% stated they were very interested, though that was an increase compared to 52% during the first quarter survey.…After that there is a big gap down to Windows-based smartphones and tablets, at 26% and 25%, respectively, compared to 29% and 30% in the first quarter study. To add insult to injury more than 60% thought that Windows 8 would ultimately fail as a mobile platform.Unigine: real-time 3D engine (game, simulation, visualization and VR) &gt;&gt; Valley BenchmarkOffering a rare chance to experience a breath of untapped, crystal clear air, Valley Benchmark allows you to encounter a morning high up in the mountains when the snow-capped peaks are just barely glittering in the rising sun. Be it flying over the vast green expanses or hiking along rocky slopes, this journey continues as long you wish. Unique in every corner, this open-space world provides a wonderfully relaxing experience under the tranquil music and sounds of nature.Stress-test your GPU while de-stressing yourself. Amazingly detailed. CRoss-platform.Seriously, Samsung? Sorry, roamers, but the new Galaxy Note 3 is region-locked &gt;&gt; GigaOmDavid Meyer:I really thought the days of region-locking were dying with the DVD, but it seems I was wrong – Samsung has decided to revive the odious practice with its Galaxy Note 3 smartphone.Yes, if you buy an unlocked Note 3 in Europe and travel to, say, the U.S., you will not be able to use a local SIM card.UPDATE (5.50am PT): Looks like the North American version is locked to that region too. I've taken the word "European" out of the headline to reflect that. I also edited the piece generally to reflect that it's not just a European thing.How can a handset maker benefit from doing this?Taiwan market: HTC may lose top-rank title due for lack of new flagship models &gt;&gt; DigitimesHTC may lose its top-rank title in Taiwan's smartphone market in the fourth quarter of 2013 as it has failed to deliver a new flagship model for the second half of the year in the local market, while rivals including Samsung Electronics, Sony Mobile Communications and LG Electronics have all released new models, according to sources in the local retail channels.The new flagship models being released recently in the local market include the Galaxy Note 3 from Samsung, the Xperia Z1 from Sony Mobile and the Optimus G2 from LG. All three models are targeting the high-end segment with a price tag of over NT$20,000 (US$676), noted the sources.The competition will become keener at the end of 2013 when Apple begins to market its iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c smartphones in the local market, the sources added.Taiwan is HTC's home market. Samsung Taiwan reckons it can sell 1m Galaxy Notes there by the end of 2013. HTC is now under huge stress.Nokia Windows Phones win PCMag's End-user Business Choice Award 2013 &gt;&gt; WMPoweruserWindows Phones have always scored well when it comes to customer satisfaction, and a new survey published by PCMag finds this satisfaction also carries over into the work place, with business users who use Windows Phones as their primary work phone being much more satisfied with them than Galaxy, iPhone or Blackberry users.These are scores from end users. No indication of sample sizes (though the blanks for "Technical Support" and "Repairs" indicate fewer than 50 responses - so this might be a small sample). It's remarkable how badly the BlackBerry scores in what should be its stronghold: it's last in nearly everything, and doesn't lead in email.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday. But not just any Friday. It is Blood Bowl Season 11 Live Draw Day. As the internationally distributed press release explains:This is the 11th Season of the Blog's longest running mass participation competition. 28 teams, ranging from seven-season veterans to box fresh new outfits have been split into seven pots based on their playing style and races (punchy Orcs, slippery goblins, agile elves etc.).  We will draw a team from each pot at random to make up four divisions of seven teams. The draw will be made by cunningstunt, with a copy of the master list  lodged with new ombudsman GeorgeShapiro,.Once these teams have been picked you can expect nine weeks of match reports featuring the usual ultra-violence, despicable fouls, Hollywood plays and most of all bad puns, before the winner is crowned and normal blog service is resumed as we return to listing cheeses and swapping GTA 5 stories.I'm putting a fiver on the agile elves...
On a hot day in central Lagos, there's only one way to cut through the traffic: jump on a motorbike and whizz around oncoming buses, gaping potholes and street hawkers – all the while trying to avoid bribe-seeking policemen.If that sounds too exhausting, an alternative is to stay home and play out the scene online. In Nigeria, game publishers are turning life into art with African-inspired games that have set thumbs twitching across the continent. In a global videogame industry worth $66bn (£42bn) – more than Hollywood – the market has so far offered few Africa-centric plotlines."We wanted to use game as an engine to share African experiences between ourselves and with the rest of the world through African narratives, sounds and characters," said Hugo Obi, co-creator of Nigeria'sMaliyo Games, one of the first videogame companies in west Africa.Maliyo's most popular offering is Okada Ride – the nickname for the motorbikes that dart cheerfully and dangerously through cities across the country. Its answer to Angry Birds is Mosquito Smasher, now in its fourth edition. Players battle against a villain who has mobilised the insects across the continent in an attempt to keep away tourists.The appeal for new adventures has jumped borders. Nigerian companyGamsole, which became the first in the region to clock up more than 1m app downloads last month, said most of its enthusiasts log in from Brazil, India and the US. "Some people take the bestselling games and change them to African characters, but our approach is to create games that are uniquely African," said Oluseye Soyode-Johnson of Maliyo.As sub-Saharan Africa becomes increasingly plugged in online, a growing middle class looking for entertainment has resulted in Nigerian movies and music sweeping across the continent; game publishers hope to follow suit. Leapfrogging PCs and consoles, the industry has exploded on mobiles in the country with the world'sfastest-growing mobile internet usagebehind China and India. "I like these games for the same reason why I like watching Nollywood [films] – everybody likes to see something they can relate to," said graduate Sule Elaigwu, who bought a smartphone for the first time last year, one of 21.5m mobile phones bought in Nigeria that year.The mushrooming industry has surprised some in a country that cannot boast a single game design course, compared with 70 in California. "There's so much demand that isn't being met in Africa," said Lakunle Ogungbamila, director of Kuluya, which means "action" in the Igbo language.There are signs that gaming is ready for the next level. Founded in a small Lagos flat, Kuluya.com's 13-man team secured funding of $2m after just six months. Its biggest hit cashed in on a growing love of social media.In a morning interview, a Nigerian policeman unable to recall the police website address claimed he had to ask his "oga at the top" [his boss] for permission to divulge the site's name. The gaffe went viral on Twitter, prompting Kuluya designers to cobble together aneponymous gamein which players navigate a bemused official through a minefield of questions. Within three days, it had 60,000 plays."The reaction was phenomenal. This was a game we put together in 24 hours and it just caught fire because of social media," said Ogungbamila.The biggest hurdle may be plans to introduce virtual currency, which is used to pay for games, as online payment in Nigeria has been stifled byfears of fraud[http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/may/26/fraud-nigeria-dotcom-growth].Despite glitches, the new crop of game publishers say their mission is far from complete. "We're arriving at the beginning of the wave. We're creating the wave and we're gonna ride it," Obi said.
The government stands accused of mismanaging the publicly funded BDUK programme to roll out faster internet connections to rural Britain. BT is the sole supplier to the project, and is using £1.2bn of public money to extend its monopoly while not being transparent about costs, according to a report published Thursday by the public accounts committee.Now Vodafone, which owns the former Cable &amp; Wireless network in the UK, has joined those calling for a rethink of the BDUK project, saying it "will not deliver value for money". Here we summarise responses to the report from politicians, industry and analysts.The background:Councils have been handed taxpayer funds to bring faster internet connections to constituents stuck in the digital slow lane, in areas ranging from suburbs and market towns to remote villages.BT has won all of the 26 council contracts awarded so far in what was intended to be a competitive process, and looks set to win the remaining 18 as the only other government approved contractor, Fujitsu, pulled out of the process in March.The former state-owned telecoms company has committed £207m less to the programme than civil servants originally forecast, while councils have spent £236m more, government auditors have found."The programme to extend superfast broadband to rural areas has been mismanaged by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport," said Margaret Hodge, chair of the public accounts committee (PAC), which checks government spending.In a series of recommendations to the department, which is responsible for the project, the committee said a further £250m of public money promised for rural broadband should not be spent until more stringent conditions are imposed. The government should ensure proper competition and value for money, and push for contributions from BT or any other supplier that reflect the long term value of the asset being built.The BDUK project will not reach the final 10% of homes in its current phase. But smaller competitors who want to build local networks in areas where BT won't go say they are being prevented from doing so by a lack of information.The committee wants BT to publish detailed roll out plans "as a matter of urgency" so that those communities left out of its coverage area look for alternative network providers.The responses:Vodafone"The current BDUK process simply will not deliver value for money nor the rural connectivity that Britain needs. The government should urgently revise the process to encompass wireless 4G in order to make digital Britain a reality."Fotis Karonis, chief technology officer, EE"As a nation, we need to get over our fixation with fixed broadband as the best solution to rural connectivity challenges. The sooner we recognise that superfast 4G can, very efficiently, deliver internet access to places where there is none today, the sooner more people in rural Britain will enjoy the benefits of being online."Harriet Harman, shadow culture secretary"The extent of the mismanagement of this programme is shocking. Maria Miller's department was meant to secure competition: all 26 contracts so far have gone to BT, and it is almost certain the remaining 18 will also go to them. Her department was meant to secure value for money: the PAC report shows how officials failed to check BT's costings. The project is meant to help our communities: it will be at least 22 months late."Ms Miller has also failed entirely in securing the transparency this project needs: BT's rollout will only cover 90% of the country, so why hasn't she been stronger in requiring BT to publish their plans showing what areas they will cover? The government must make it clear to BT and local councils that this information is to be released. Until they do so, other companies cannot step in to meet the demand for broadband in the final 10% of the country. All this is at the cost of £1.2bn to the squeezed taxpayer."Department for Culture, Media and Sport"We disagree with the views expressed by the PAC. We put in place a fair commercial process and encouraged different suppliers to bid."Malcolm Corbett, chief executive, the Independent Networks Cooperative Association (INCA)"The public accounts committee has performed a hugely valuable service in highlighting the problems in this programme. INCA members are keen to help the government solve some of the problems uncovered, promoting greater competition, investment and value for money for the taxpayer."INCA represents telecoms companies including Fujitsu, Gigaclear and UK Broadband, as well as local councils including Birmingham, Bristol, Manchester. INCA's members are calling for• Transparency – over BT's costs and deployment plans• Competition – where alternative providers and communities are willing to invest in fibre and high-speed wireless networks, BT should not be allowed to roll over them with state subsidy• Open access – alternative providers should have full, unfettered access to all of BT's publicly funded infrastructure, thus promoting competition and choice• New investment models – to promote investment, innovation and better value for money for the additional £250m of funding the government is committing to rural broadband.BT Group"The taxpayer is undoubtedly getting value for money. BT faces a payback period of around 15 years on its rural broadband investments in spite of the subsidies available. The Department for Culture has imposed a rigorous auditing process that ensures every penny is accounted for."Rolling out fibre is an expensive and complex business, but we remain committed to the programme. The network we build will be open to all our rivals, who will be able to sell services to consumers, paying us the same prices we charge our own retail division."Matthew Howett, principal telecom regulation analyst, at research firm Ovum"A chief criticism is around BT being a near monopoly. What the PAC seems to miss is the concept of competition for the market. Firstly, it was never the intention to necessarily have lots of different firms rolling out broadband infrastructure in rural areas, rather they should compete on price for the right to do so. By all accounts and purposes this is what has happened."Certainly the BDUK process has been far from plain sailing and some criticisms are real. The way the UK was broken into many small regions is perhaps a valid one. Initially having a rather lofty objective for 'the best superfast broadband in Europe' was also far from ideal, and mobile technology seems to have been disregarded for those especially hard to reach places. But then trying to find an example of a national broadband strategy that hasn't gone without a hitch either in terms of delays or excessive cost is near impossible."To delay the spending of the remaining public money, as the PAC report recommends, is probably not the right thing to do at this stage. For too long the UK has been branded as being on a 'low-fibre' diet and dogged by claims that consumers in rural areas will be condemned to the slow lane for years to come. Things have moved on immensely in the last couple of years, mostly as a result of the private money being spent by companies such as BT and Virgin Media. To halt the rural broadband process now would only serve to leave rural areas without the decent broadband speeds they deserve."Andrew Ferguson, editor, thinkbroadband.com"While there will be many headlines stating the BDUK programme will be 22 months late, if one delves into the data, you find out that the 22 months refers to achieving the new target of 95%t superfast coverage, which was only announced in July 2013. The original 2011 aim is estimated to be met some 12 months later than originally planned, which in the world of government procurement is almost something to celebrate."In a perfect world, there would be no need for money to be skimmed off the TV licence fee to pay for these improvements to broadband infrastructure, but the economic downturn in 2008 has meant that investment capital for small and large business is much harder to come by."Peter Cochrane, former chief technology officer of BT, independent analyst with Cochrane AssociatesThe PAC argues that Britain is failing in terms of broadband. It's absolutely right. Broadband in the UK is in a woeful state – and the BDUK commissioning process which allows BT to create a near monopoly position in rural provision is in large part responsible.In the world broadband league, the UK is not in the top 20, and amongst the EU countries we do not even get into the top 10.  Numbers vary from survey to survey, but in general terms the UK is positioned around 24th and 13th respectively.Meanwhile, telcos continue asking the same foolish questions: why do people want bandwidth? What will they do with it? History is already showing us these questions don't matter. What matters is that the future of any developed economy is absolutely dependent upon world-leading broadband. Many industries will follow and grow around this infrastructure.Limiting the viable supplier list for rural broadband projects to BT alone, on purpose or by accident, will not solve our deep and pervasive connectivity crisis. In my local area of Ufford in Suffolk, I am surrounded by businesses of varying sizes that cannot access the digital economy on an equal footing with their Asian competitors. It is a sad travesty.
Bulky, sluggish and unintuitive, Samsung’s Galaxy Gear hasn&apos;t exactly lived up the hype or the expectations of a ‘smartwatch’.The Galaxy Gear wasn&apos;t Samsung’s first stab at a smartwatch. In 1999 and again in 2009, it had a go at chunky digital watches but neither took off with consumers. Samsung’s grand vision for the Galaxy Gear was &quot;a companion device that will keep us constantly connected,&quot; as Samsung‘s executive vice-president of marketingLee Young-hee described it.Whether it was through bad timing - a rush to beat Apple’s much rumoured ‘iWatch’ to the market - or through the limitation of current technology, including the lack of viable curved displays and battery technology restrictions, the Galaxy Gear was released as very much a limited product, with a confused and slow interface, a lack of device support, and very little in the way of ‘killer’ functionality to justify its £299 price tag.&apos;Our Gear lacks something special&apos;Samsung has admitted that the Gear isn&apos;t up to scratch, as a Samsung officialtold the Korean Times, “We&apos;ve acknowledged that our Gear lacks something special. With more investment for user interface and user experience, Samsung devices will be better in terms of customer satisfaction.”This is despite Young-hee telling reporters that the Gear is &quot;definitely receiving warm response,&quot; at a launch event for the smartwatch insouthern Seoul yesterday. &quot;The Galaxy Gear is a wow product. It&apos;s a wholly new and must-have accessory.&quot;reporters.Not so much Dick Tracy...The Galaxy Gear promises Dick Tracy-style phone calls and messaging from your wrist, and connects via Bluetooth only to Samsung&apos;s Galaxy Note 3 phablet, although support for others like the Galaxy S4 is being added at a later date according to Samsung.As well as letting you make and receive calls via a microphone on its wrist strap and speakers embedded in the Gear&apos;s main body, it pulls messages, contacts and alerts from your phone, placing at-a-glance information on your wrist.The Gear also has its own bespoke third-party apps like Evernote, Path, Pocket and RunKeeper, plus Samsung&apos;s own applications like the instant messaging service ChatON, its S Voice digital assistant, and a pedometer, which takes advantage of the built-in sensors including an accelerometer and gyroscope within the watch.The Gear feels awfully sluggishWhile promising much, on initial testing Samsung&apos;s Galaxy Gear hasn&apos;t lived up to the hype.In my own hands-on experience at the launch event in Berlin on 4 September I found it to be sluggish during navigation, with an awkward swipe-based interface that, although simple compared to Samsung&apos;s Galaxy Android smartphones, was unintuitive and confusing at times.The smartwatch was also bulky on the wrist and difficult to use as an actual timepiece, with the time display only visible when you shook your wrist, not at a glance when you are likely to want to see the time.Other initial hands-on testers had similar experiences.&quot;The Gear feels awfully sluggish, whether you&apos;re launching an app such as Evernote or Path, or swiping down from the home screen to activate the camera. The interface also feels a bit clunky and unpolished at times,&quot; wrote Zach Honigfor gadget site Engadget.Likewise Vlad Savovwriting for the Vergefound there to be &quot;a tangible lag to anything you do with the Gear, while the swipe gestures are hard to figure out and do different things depending on where you are in the menus&quot;.Ian Fogg, director for mobile and telecoms at research company IHS, described the Gear as &quot;a prototype masquerading as a commercial product - and because of that, it is unlikely to be successful in the market&quot;.Fogg explained that &quot;the device exhibits multiple shortcomings, including a high price tag, a short battery life, its status as a companion device and its limited compatibility. The bottom line is the Galaxy Gear smartwatch probably will not succeed in the market and Samsung will need to try again with a more refined product.&quot;&apos;A prototype to determine market reaction&apos;Areport in Daum, which is based in Samsung&apos;s homeland of South Korea,suggeststhat the Galaxy Gear was indeed &quot;just the first… to determine the market reaction&quot;, and that an upgraded version could be announced as soon as January at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas or Mobile World Congress (MWC) in Barcelona in March, complete with GPS and location-based services.Despite a its high price tag of £299, Ben Wood, chief of research at CCS Insight, reckons that Samsung will sell one million units, &quot;although compared to the expectation of 1bn in overall smartphone sales it&apos;s a drop in the ocean&quot;.&quot;Given the 125 million install base of Samsung&apos;s Galaxy S3, S4 and Note series, plus the fact that Samsung&apos;s likely to bundle them with the purchase of new phones as it has done with tablets in the past, I can see them selling at least one million units,&quot; Wood told the Guardian.&quot;It is very much a &apos;version 0.1&apos; product, however, but Samsung has a history of rapid evolution of products - I suspect the Galaxy Gear 2 is very close behind.&quot;Samsung&apos;s Galaxy Note 3 and Galaxy Gear went on sale on 25 September priced at around £599 for the phablet and £299 for the smartwatch.•Steve Wozniak, Appleco-founder, wants more than just a smartwatch - he wants the entire internet on his wrist.
According to a survey of 2,000 British children and parents conducted by Nielsen Book in June this year, 50% of family households now own at least one tablet, up from 24% a year ago.Is this a good thing for kids' reading habits? Are they hoovering up e-books and delighting in digital book-apps on these devices? In a word: no. At least not according to data shared at The Bookseller Children's Conference by research firm Nielsen Book.The good news? 32% of children still read books for pleasure on a daily basis, the second most popular activity behind watching TV (36%), and well ahead of social networking (20%), watching videos on YouTube (17%) and playing mobile games and apps (16%).On a weekly basis, 60% of children are reading books for pleasure, and if you factor in children who are being read to by parents, that percentage climbs to 72%. But…"But there's a really disturbing pattern beginning to emerge when you look on a weekly basis," said Nielsen Book's Jo Henry, presenting the findings to an audience of publishers.Only three activities increased in percentage terms between 2012 and 2013: playing "game apps" (the term used by Nielsen Book), visiting YouTube and text messaging. Reading? That was down nearly eight percentage points."It's a snapshot, not a sustainable trend and next year it might go up again. But this is alarming: children are being less engaged with reading," said Henry, who also pointed to industry figures showing an 8% year-on-year drop in (printed) books bought for children."I want to stress that most children are still medium and heavy book readers, but what we're seeing is a really significant rise in the number of occasional and even non-readers in the children's market."Nielsen Book has specific definitions for those terms. Heavy readers are defined as children who read at least weekly, and for an average of 45 minutes or more a day. Medium are a little less than that, light are those reading weekly but for less than 15 minutes a day on average, and occasional readers are those who read 1-3 times a month."What we're seeing is that non-readers have risen from 22% to 28% of all children," said Henry, who went on to claim that it's not just reading that is suffering from the growth in apps and YouTube use: activities including going out, hobbies and art are also being dropped."It's hugely impacting on teenagers: 11-17 year-olds are actually dropping their participation in quite a broad range of activities in order to play game apps," said Henry.Nielsen's data shows that among 11-17 year-olds, non-readers grew from 13% to 27% between 2012 and 2013, while occasional readers fell from 45% to 38%; light dropped from 4% to 2%; medium readers fell from 23% to 17%; and heavy readers grew from 15% to 16%.Nielsen has also asked children whether they'd like to read digitally. In 2012, 21% said they were doing it already, while 38% said they'd like to. In 2013, those respective percentages were 33% and 28%."There is something around we're not making it attractive enough to do it: there's not much aspirational stuff there," said Henry. "We all hoped the attraction of digital reading would bring lighter readers into the market. But they're still less likely than the heavier-reading teenagers to be reading e-books and apps."All doom and gloom? Henry's presentation was followed by a talk from Lynne Taylor and Simon Appleby of The Reading Agency about this summer's Creepy House summer reading challenge, which ran in libraries across the UK, encouraging children to borrow, read and talk about books.More than 750,000 children took part, with just over 48,000 of them signing up as new library members. 43% of the participants were boys – seen as a tougher group to reach for reading.In a panel session following Henry's talk, Dylan Collins from children's discovery startup SuperAwesome said parents bear some of the responsibility for ensuring children don't abandon reading in favour of games and social media."The challenge continues to be one of attention and maintaining attention. I often get asked by parents 'shouldn't you be doing more to make our children read or not look at the internet and TV so much?' To which I say, yeah, I think that's where the mother/father line starts to apply," he said."Parenting does come into this, in terms of parents saying to their kids 'you need to be reading, please start reading, or I'm going to take all your electronic devices away!'"However, Collins said that some of the technologies and services seen as squeezing out reading could help bring children back to books, whether physical or digital. YouTube was the key example."If you can find a way to harness video to get kids talking about books, reviewing books, starting book clubs with video as a part of that, now would be the time to do it," he said.Henry offered a final optimistic note. Well, partly. "There is no evidence that more kids thought reading was uncool in our survey," she said. "Their opinions of reading as an activity hadn't gone down. They were just doing less of it."
More than 600 venture capitalists from the tech sector gathered at the Natural History Museum on 25 September to celebrate a new optimism and growth in Europe&apos;s tech startups.With more than a dozen initial public offerings expected in the next two years, and more than 40 companies worth at least £500m, there seems to be plenty to celebrate.Over the next week, Guardian technology will be profiling seven of Europe&apos;s best investor-backed companies, as well as ouranalysis on what this event really represents, a full report on Allstar&apos;s tech talent in the Tech Weekly podcast - and whyproperty site Zooplais on the way up.Here&apos;s the full list of winners fromInvestor Allstars 2013, dubbed the Oscars of the VC community:Europe’s most exciting investor-backed company of the year• Zoopla - winnerBelieve DigitalFly VictorKlarnaMedicAnimalRovioSecret EscapesVenture capital fund of the year• DFJ Esprit - winnerFidelity Growth PartnersNorthzoneQualcomm VenturesScottish Equity PartnersVTB CapitalInvestor of the year• Pär-Jörgen Parson, Northzone - winnerMarcos Battisti, Intel CapitalHaakon Overlie, Dawn CapitalAlex Macpherson, Octopus InvestmentsDr Alexander von Frankenberg – High-Tech-Gründerfonds I + IIFemale entrepreneur of the year• Shirin Dehgan, Arieso - winnerBec Astley Clarke, Astley ClarkeWendy Devolder, Skills MatterMaelle Gavet, OZON HoldingsFanny Moizant, Vestiaire CollectiveJude Ower, PlayMobMary Turner, AlertMeMichelle You, SongkickMale entrepreneur of the year• Alexander Ljung, SoundCloud - winnerJames Caan, Hamilton BradshawGeoffroy de Becdelievre, PlanetVeoJacob de Geer, iZettleNiklas Holmstén, TunigoOlof Schybergson, FjordPeter Ward, WAYNEquity gap fund of the year•Notion Capital Partners LLP - winnerEC1 CapitalFastlane VenturesHigh-Tech Gründerfonds I + IIMMC VenturesThe UPF (UMIP Premier Fund) managed by MTI PartnershipsPassion CapitalSeedcampExit of the year• Trivago GmbH (HOWZAT media LLP) - winnerArieso (Oxford Capital Partners)Fleetmatics (Investcorp Technology Partners II)Mendeley (Passion Capital)Ogone (Summit Partners)Solfex Energy Systems (Panoramic Enterprise Capital Fund 1)Growth/buyout fund of the year• Investcorp Technology Partners - winnerEQTPalamon European Equity IIPanoramic Growth EquityThe Carlyle GroupPrivate investor network of the year• London Business Angels - winnerBraveheart EnvestorsCrowdcubeSeedcampSpintop VenturesHalo - the Northern Ireland business angel networkService provider of the year• Silicon Valley Bank - winnerBaker TillyDentonsJAG Shaw BakerKemp LittleKreos CapitalMarriott HarrisonOrrickSGH MartineauThe Forsyth GroupVenture capital trust of the year• Maven Income &amp; Growth VCT PLC (MGI) managed by Maven Capital Partners - winnerCore VCT managed by Core CapitalForesight Solar VCT managed by Foresight GroupIncome &amp; Growth VCT managed by Mobeus Equity PartnersNVM Private Equity Octopus Titan VCT managed by Octopus InvestmentsProVen Growth &amp; Income VCT managed by BeringeaBritish Smaller Companies VCT managed by YFM Private Equity• The Guardian is media partner to theInvestor Allstarsevent. Read thefull list of winnersannounced on 25 September and find out whyZoopla took the awardfor the best European investor-backed company.• Read all ourInvestor Allstars coverageInvestor Allstars 2013
Major companies are failing to disclose data security breaches, a secure communications company has claimed.The co-founder of Silent Circle, which closed its secure email service over concerns that it could not guarantee users&apos; privacy from government-mandated surveillance, claimed that corporate users have admitted data breaches that have not been disclosed to shareholders.“We’re like digital priests,” said Mike Janke, chief executive of the service. “Everybody calls us, or comes to our office, and tells us just every dirty thing that’s going on.&quot;I sat and spoke with the chief information officer of a Fortune 500 company, and he’s telling me that they’re not reporting 80% of their data breaches. And I’m going, ‘there’s a law against that&apos;.“Customers of ours disclose that they’re being breached, weekly, and they don’t disclose it to shareholders.”That revelation comes against the background ofa major investigation by security website Krebs on Securitywhich revealed that some of America’s biggest data broker firms may have been unwittingly compromised.SSNDOB is a site trading stolen personal information andachieved notoriety after leaking the Social Security numbersfor celebrities like Jay Z and Michelle Obama.Krebs found that “the miscreants behind this ID theft service controlled at least five infected systems at different US-based consumer and business data aggregators,” including Dun &amp; Bradstreet, Kroll Background America, and LexisNexis.“We have identified an intrusion targeting our data, but to date have found no evidence that customer or consumer data were reached or retrieved,” Aurobindo Sundaram, vice president of information assurance and data protection at the parent company of LexisNexis, Reed Elsevier, told Krebs on Security.“Because this matter is actively being investigated by law enforcement, I can’t provide further information at this time.”Email is &apos;fundametally broken&apos;Janke explained the decision toclose down Silent Circle&apos;s emailservice, part of a suite of encrypted communications tools across a number of platforms.“Email is different. It’s fundamentally broken,” Janke said, comparing the protocol to services built from the ground up for security.“The architecture was made 40 years ago. Imagine I’m sending you a letter in an envelope: this is encrypted email. They can’t open the letter to read what I wrote you – right, yet. But where it was from, my GPS location, what time, who I bcc’ed, the subject line.“We were sitting on metadata, so that we knew it was only a matter of time before someone would come to us. Email was different – the rest of our products have no metadata, no IP logging, no way – but email was fundamentally broken.”Silent Circle’s email application was hugely popular – “We became profitable like that,” Janke said, snapping his fingers – but when a similar service, Lavabit, closed its doors without warning, the company re-examined its business.Lavabit had garnered unwelcome attention for providing services to Edward Snowden, the whistleblower who disclosed the level of internet surveillance being conducted by theNational Security Agencyin the US.Silent Circle then decided to shut down the service to avoid becoming “complicit in crimes against the American people”.“We have been developing an email app that’s based upon our peer-to-peer encryption,” Janke said, explaining his own decision to follow suit.“We thought we’d have it done sooner, so this email [app] that we put out, the encrypted email, was a stop-gap. We thought we could put it out, and then replace it with the new. But we became a lot more popular than we thought around the world.“We don’t know our customers, so the only way to communicate with them is to maybe put a blog post out, saying we’re going to shut email off in 12 hours. That’s like saying ‘all the world’s law enforcement, you got 12 hours to subpoena us.’ No. So, John, myself and [co-foubder] Phil [Zimmerman, inventor of the PGP security system], we made the decision to scorch earth. Gone.”•Find out the best alternative secure services to use now that Lavabit and Secure Circle have closed down
Do you know of any portable media players – or even software for Windows Phone 8 – which will allow playback of WAV and AIFF music files? I am a bit of a bedroom DJ and have lots of files I'd like to be able to play on the go, in the car etc when I can't use my laptop. I don't mind iPods but I really don't want Apple's horrible iTunes messing with music formats and filing on my PC.PeteThis is a good time to think about the file formats you are creating and using, and which way you want to go in the future.CD audio is stored in uncompressed 16-bit linear PCM (pulse code modulation) format. When that's moved to a computer then you usually get an uncompressed WAV (wave) file on a PC or an uncompressed AIFF (audio interchange file format) file on an Apple Macintosh. The data is the same, but the way the files are stored is slightly different. With Mac OS X, Apple started using a variant of AIFF with Intel-compatible (little-endian) byte order, so you may find that you can rename them as .wav files and play them with a WAV player. Do try this.Although AIFF was originally developed by Electronic Arts, it's now mostly an Apple iPod thing, and you will have a wider choice of MP3 players if you only need to play WAV files.Standard file formatsIt would be a good idea to standardise on one format, and the obvious choices are BWF (broadcast wave format) and FLAC (free lossless audio codec). BWF wasspecified by the European Broadcasting Unionin 1997 and is now supported by most standards bodies. However, BWF files use the .wav extension and are identical to ordinary WAV files except for the header information, so you can probably just stick to WAV.Open source, royalty-free FLAC has become the de facto standard for lossless music files, so if you convert everything to FLAC, you will retain exactly the same sound quality. The main difference is that FLAC files are heavily encoded so they take up much less space than WAV/AIFF files, though they are much bigger than compressed MP3 files. For example, Miles Davis's Bitches Brew double album has about 1.4GB of WAV data on CD, which on my PC becomes 463MB in FLAC format, and 214MB in 320Kbps MP3 format.If you switch to FLAC you will have room for two or three times as much music per gigabyte of storage without compromising sound quality. You can easily convert FLAC files to MP3 and other "lossy" formats for everyday use.Unfortunately, both Apple and Microsoft have their own lossless file formats – Apple Lossless and WMA-Lossless – so neither supports FLAC, even though it's better. (FLAC is more efficient, seeks faster, decodes faster, and provides longer battery life.) However, many more MP3 players support FLAC: see Wikipedia'slist of hardware and software that supports FLAC. Android added FLAC support with version 3.1 (Honeycomb), and Samsung Galaxy phones supported it before that.You can try playing FLAC files on your Windows Phone 8 smartphone using Shamrocksoft'sFlac Player, though some of the comments say "Doesn't work".VLC 2.1also supports FLAC but I don't know if this is included in the "Partial port to WinRT, for Windows 8, 8.1 and WP8."MP3 playersIf you want to buy an MP3 player, then it depends how much you value sound quality. Some cheap players support WAV or FLAC as well as MP3, but people who are fussy enough to use uncompressed sound files are often fussy enough to want a better playback device, and correspondingly high-quality headphones. You need all three links in the chain to get hi-fi sound.If you're on a budget, the Sansa Clip/Clip+ and Cowan iAudio ranges are popular choices for playing FLAC files, and they are well regarded for their sound quality. Choose one that has an expandable microSD or microSDHC memory card slot and you can carry all your music on 16GB or larger memory cards. The 8GBSanDisk Clip Zipcosts £43.99 at Amazon.co.uk though you can get aSansa Clip+for only £34.39.The 8GBKubik Evomight be worth a look as it plays MP3, WMA, WAV, and FLAC files for £27.99, but it doesn't seem to be as well made as the Sansa models, judging by its Amazon.co.uk reviews. I've not seen one myself, nor have I tried any of the following hi-fi audio players …Hi-fi playersThree hi-fi players that meet your needs for file format support are the 16GB Cowon iAudio X9 (£129), Colorfly C3 (£149) and FiiO X3 (£169.99). You may find them for less if you shop around.Cowon is probably the best known company in the more audiophile part of the MP3 player market, though its cheaper machines tend not to have microSD card slots. The 16GB Cowon iAudio X9 supports WAV, FLAC and MP3, as well as WMA, OGG, and APE. However, it has a graphic equaliser and numerous "sound effects", which may put off purists. Also, it has a 4.3in screen, so it probably has more appeal as a portable video player.The Colorfly C3 is an established model that supports the WAV, FLAC, and lossless APE formats, as well as MP3 and WMA. It only has 8GB of storage but you can add up to 64GB on a microSD card. The FiiO X3 is a newer device – I'd not heard of it – with outstanding file format support: WAV, FLAC, APE, WMA Lossless, Apple Lossless, MP3, AAC, WMA, and OGG. It also has bass and treble controls, and works as a sound recorder.The Colorfly C3 has aTI PCM1770digital-to-analogue converter(DAC), while the FiiO X3 has a (probably cheaper)Wolfson WM8740. Those who care can compare the specs.If you're really serious, you could have a look at the 32GBColorfly C4 Pro Pocket Hi-Fi Music Player(£548.99), which has an old fashioned walnut case, and iRiver's space-ageAstell and Kern AK100 Ultimate(£569). The latter is very highly rated and also uses a Wolfson WM8740 DAC.Finally, and alternatively, there'sRockbox. In 2001, some people who were unhappy about early MP3 players decided to develop their own open source software to replace the stuff provided by the manufacturer (originally, Archos). A dozen years later, Rockbox supports all the file formats you need (and a lot you don't), and runs on a wide range of MP3 players. This includes devices from Apple, Cowon, iRiver, Samsung, SanDisk and Toshiba. The vast majority areno longer in production, but you could rescue an old MP3 player or buy a Rockbox-compatible Sansa Clip+. Manytarget portsare still in development.TL; DRTo sum up, if you want to stick to playing WAV files, then you should look at the Cowon iAudio X9 (£129) and the Colorfly C3 (£149). Both of these also play FLAC, so you could switch over at your own pace. If you decide to batch-convert all your WAV/AIFF files to FLAC then you have a wide choice of cheaper players, including the Sansa Clip+ (£34.39). Otherwise, if you are willing to convert your WAV/AIFF files to MP3, with some loss of sound quality, then any MP3 player will do. This includes your Windows Phone 8 smartphone.
There&apos;s some rich metaphor to be found in the delightful scenario of 600 venture capitalists tucking into an extravagant awards dinner in theNatural History Museum&apos;s central hall– and clustered aroundDippy, probably the world&apos;s most famous diplodocus.This is the 11th year ofInvestor Allstars, the event that the investment community likes to think of as its own Oscars, with prizes including best exit, equity gap fund and female entrepreneur of the year. And the room, possibly even the dinosaur, is buzzing.Even very recently there has been a rumblinganxiety in the VC communitythat it needed to see some money flow back into its funds, that there was little institutional support for tech startups (which, while relatively glamorous, are seen as risky and small-scale) and that if Europe&apos;s most promising startups screwed up their forthcoming IPOs, the whole sector would suffer.That cloud, Investor Allstars would have us believe, is starting to lift. There are at least a dozen European startups nearing IPO and looking financially solid. More startups are willing not to sell but to go for growth, which sounds far more confident and resonant of Silicon Valley. And GP Bullhound founderManish Madhvani, who puts on this event, told the room that Europe now has 40 startups valued at more than £500m. As the first line in the evening&apos;s programme put it: &quot;Hold your nerve!&quot;Investor Allstar Awards&nbsp;at London's Natural History Museum Photo: Niklas Hallen/Vitesse MediaIt takes a certain optimism to stand up in front of these 600 venture capitalists and admit that the early part of your business was about burning through money, but that&apos;s exactly what Rovio&apos;s executive vice-presidentMikko Setälädid in his keynote speech.&quot;We made games for gamers, and it failed,&quot; said Setälä, showing an early game calledDarkest Fear. &quot;We realised that users wanted delight, not fear.&quot;Nearly drowned out by the chattering VCs on the wrong side of the dinosaur, Setälä persisted, listing astonishing bird facts and some very palatable videos of people dressed up as birds:1.7bn downloads, 400bn birds shot,$200m revenues in 2012.Setälä is an accomplished keynoter with a compelling line in wry, Finnish wit unfortunately drowned out in the cavernous hall with the merry dinner guests, but what they might have wanted to hear was how Rovio is investing in new games to decrease its dependency on Angry Birds.Still, itsthree-minute animationseriesToons is flying with 1bn viewsin seven months, and it is pitching itself – its tongue only slightly in its cheek – as &quot;the entertainment company of the millennium&quot;. The model is Disney; we&apos;ll see how that goes.Rovio's Mikko Set&auml;l&auml; Photo: Niklas Hallen/Vitesse MediaMadhvani made a lovely quip about Greece being in so much trouble it had stopped makinghumousand taramasalata – a double-dip recession! Indeed. There is a serious point here though that for all the bravado of the business end of the tech space, and all the cheerleading and back-slapping you&apos;d expect of an annual awards gig, there is real growth in the startup sector. Talk to those on the coalface (one of the few entrepreneurs there told me he&apos;d snuck in through the kitchen) and they will say that that means more jobs, for more people.GP Bullhound founder Manish Madhvani Photo: Niklas Hallen/Vitesse MediaIn the context of thewider European economy, that&apos;s hugely significant.What VCs crave is the acknowledgement – mostly unspoken – of those who have backed the most winners. That success requires a combination of reading technology trends and future demands, of being able to pick out companies with both the talent and the idea, and of those investors with the rare skill of being able to mentor younger entrepreneurs to make their businesses fly. Master all three of those, and you really do have something worth celebrating.• The Guardian is media partner to theInvestor Allstarsevent. Read the full list of winners announced on 25 September and find out whyZoopla took the awardfor the best European investor-backed company.• Read all ourInvestors Allstars coverage.Investor Allstars 2013
Facebook has signed a deal to move its UK headquarters from London's Covent Garden to almost 90,000 sq ft of space just north of Tottenham Court Road.Its firm has signed a 10-year lease for two floors of a new building on 10 Brock Street where Twitter and Manchester City FC will be fellow tenants.Yahoo had also been looking at the building off Hampstead Road, according toBuilding.co.uk.Google is also moving from London's West End – work on its new headquarters next to King's Cross station has already begun.
At some point two years ago, an accountant at Activision must have looked at the multiplayer user figures for Call of Duty and thought, "Oh my God, what have we done?" So far, gamers have spent 25bn hours playing the CoD titles online, and what does the company make out of that? Customers pay £45 for a copy of the game, and apart from map packs, that's it. Years of multiplayer effectively for free – or at least the sort of astonishing value that makes accountants wince.Each time talk of micro-transactions comes up, fans revolt and publishers back off. Call of Duty: Elite attempted to add a premium layer to the multiplayer experience and micro-transactions were prodded forward in limited quantities for Black Ops 2, but mostly the traditional industry giants have stayed well clear, fearing any bad PR.Enjoy it, because those days are over.Heist anxietyThis week it was revealed that Grand Theft Auto Online, the much-anticipated multiplayer mode for GTA V will feature micro-transactions. Players will be able to complete in-game missions, heists and races to accrue cash to buy weapons, cars and houses. However, they'll also be able to use real money to buy in-game cash bundles. According to a report in Eurogamer, there are four cash cards available. The cheapest, £1.99, gets you $100,000, while the most expensive, at £13.49 gets you $1.25m.Ina post on the Rockstar news site, the company clarified the offer:The game and its economy have been designed and balanced for the vast majority of players who will not buy extra cash. There is no in-game paywall and nothing that should disrupt the balance of the game. You don't have to spend real money to attain the cars, guns, clothes, flash and style of a high-roller in Los Santos, but can if you wish to get them a little quicker. The economy is balanced differently from the single-player economy, and cash earned in one cannot be taken over to the other. Most players will earn cash much faster online than in story mode.What Rockstar seems to be saying is that its IAP (in-app purchase) model is not offering the dreaded "pay-to-win" scenario, in which gamers are able to buy their way to success. Weapons are priced more highly in the online mode than they are in single-player, and the suggestion is that just a few hours of play will get you to a position where you can afford the most desirable items of mass destruction.What Rockstar doesn't want to confront its fans with is the standard grind v gold dynamic offered in many smartphone and free-to-play titles, where players become so bored of the process of earning in-game currency (a process commonly referred to as grinding) that they succumb to an IAP.Rockstar has also made it clear there are no false barriers in the game, no sections that either explicitly or implicitly require in-game payment. The design team knows this is a key suspicion with F2P titles like Candy Crush Saga, in which certain levels appear almost impossible before an in-game power-up is purchased.Change reactionsReactions have been … mixed. The first comment under Eurogamer's news piece reads, "Yet more disgusting price gouging for the dumb sap masses to lap up. I guess more than $1bn isn't enough for them". So far, 181 other readers have agreed.But the thing is, we're going to have to get used to it. "Monetisation through micro-transactions is here to stay and we expect substantially more use of this model in console games in the coming months and years," says Piers Harding-Rolls, head of games at media analysis firm, IHS Electronics and Media."While there are an increasing amount of freemium games on consoles, we expect a significant amount of console games to monetise through both retail sales and micro-transactions, which is different from the free trend on app stores and the web."Already we're seeing that Rockstar isn't alone. Ubisoft is adding micro-transactions to its Assassin's Creed titles, and Jade Raymond, head of the publisher's Toronto studiotold the Guardianearlier this year that IAPs and free-to-play models were unavoidable for the industry going forward.EA has placed micro-transactions into Mass Effect 3 and, even more controversially, Dead Space 3, which allows players to bypass the scavenging mechanic and to pay for custom weapons. Earlier this year, the company's chief financial officer, Blake Jorgensen, had tobacktrack from earlier commentsindicating that EA was putting IAP capabilities into all forthcoming titles.Generation gainSo why is this happening? If there's a furious kneejerk response from gamers to the idea of console micro-transactions, why are publishers insisting on experimenting with them?There are two answers. First, is that there's a whole new generation of gamers emerging who have been brought up on free-to-play and IAP models thanks to the huge popularity of smartphone games and free online MMOGs. The kids playing Clash of Clans and Maple Story just expect to pay like that. Supercellreportedlygenerates a million dollars a day from its IAP-funded titles, CoC and Hey Day.Justifying the micro-transations in Dead Space 3, the game's producer John Calhountold CVG, "There are action game fans, and survival horror game fans, who are 19 and 20, and they've only played games on their smartphones, and micro-transactions are to them a standard part of gaming. It's a different generation."It's a view confirmed by industry analysts. "Commercial models are ultimately the product of consumer demand," says Nick Gibson at research company, Games Investor Consulting. "In a free market, no producer or vendor can push an unpopular model indefinitely and with impunity. Coin-op, pay-per-play, pay-per-minute and even mandatory subscription models have all suffered as gamers have rejected them in favour of what they perceive as more acceptable alternative models."Freemium and micro-transactions have become the standard in MMOGs and mobile games, in particular those aimed at mid-core and hard-core gamers; and in spite of the vocal opposition from one corner of this player base, these games have tended to thrive not just in revenues, but, crucially, also in user numbers and usage."Some argue that F2P and IAP models, though fine in the smartphone and web sectors, won't get past console gamers. There's a theory that consumers will resist the idea of paying £45 for a boxed product and then paying more for in-game items. But quietly it's happening.Ever since the introduction of digital downloads, gamers have been happily purchasing DLC in the form of map-packs, add-ons and extra missions – this is effectively the gateway drug. Now, we can look at the huge success of Fifa's Ultimate Team option, which adds an IAP card-collection model to a separate mode within the purchased game, effectively ghetto-ising the mechanic. According to EA, Fifa 13 has made $70m (£43.6m) in digital revenue since its launch, much of that coming from Ultimate Team. Try telling them there's no audience for this concept.Money talksWhich leads us onto the second reason this is happening: revenue. Think back to that Activision accountant. He knows that developing post-release content for games and providing a taut, functioning multiplayer service, costs millions of dollars a year – and it's all being given away for free. There will be shareholders looking at those figures, scratching their heads and asking: "Erm, isn't there anyway we could monetise these 25bn hours of play?"Sure, this looks sort of greedy when you think of titles like GTA and Call of Duty that make billions of dollars anyway. But for games further down the ladder, that may cost tens of millions to develop, with less guarantee of success – well, monetising post-launch content no doubt seems like a pretty good idea to those signing off the budgets. It may even take some of the risk out of experimenting on new and original IP.And the console manufacturers know this – which is why the Xbox One and PS4 are both set-up to allow micro-transactions and free-to-play releases at a systemic level – and both will offer free-to-play titles at launch."The current generation of consoles were conceived and designed around an outdated model of a static, unchanging game that was jammed in to a disc and sold on a shelf," says game designer and analyst Will Luton, author of Free-To-Play: Making Money on Games You Give Away. "In the time since the Xbox 360 and PS3's launch, both social web and mobile has shown that physical product pricing isn't the only or best way to generate revenues."So there will be a big cultural move towards IAPs in the next console generation and even full free-to-play models – it's inevitable. From a business point of view, allowing your most dedicated fans to spend beyond the ticket price of the game makes sense and for fans that will likely mean a stream of new content for them. Console devs want to do this and the platform holders are obliging, slowly. DLC is the awkward half-way house, full micro-transaction games are the next step for console."Really, it's going to be all about implementation. As EA has shown with Fifa, adding a well-designed option to an already popular game is a smart Trojan Horse approach to IAPs. Another, of course, is to build interesting little original titles around the model – hence Ubisoft's Mighty Quest For Epic Loot.Unlike Microsoft, which stormed into the industry earlier this year, promising to revolutionise the way we bought games with Xbox One, only to make swift reversal, the traditional publishers will continue to probe away, looking for chinks in the outrage armour of gamers. Because for them, allowing an audience 25bn hours of (what they see as) free access just isn't good business sense – especially not in a new console era which will likely add many millions to stretched development budgets.For developers, the headaches will be around balancing systems, making sure players can't pay to win, ensuring we never end up with fans being expected to hand over real cash for horse armour. But then, for game designers, there are always restrictions and structures in which to create content – that's what they do. And increasingly, the money men are going to be demanding a better return on the substantial investment required by AAA titles."While the costs and risks of developing and publishing console games continues to rise and while gamers offer only vocal resistance and little by way of financial resistance to these models, the industry will continue to push the boundaries," concludes Gibson. "Micro-transactions, whether applied to free-to-play titles or to premium titles, will likely form an increasing part of the console market's future."How important a part will ultimately depend on consumer demand – i.e. how gamers vote, not with their voices, but with their wallets."The free-to-play wayIndustry analyst Nicholas Lovell has written a book, The Curve, about the free-to-play business. Here he explains how the changing games industry will lead to the wider adoption of the model."As the consoles become more niche (meaning that PS3 is unlikely to hit the highs of PS2 and PS4 is unlikely to hit the installed base of PS3) and the big games become bigger (as in GTAV costing $270 million), the revenue model is going to need to shift from, "we need lots of users to spend the same amount of money" to, "the number of users is capped, so we need to let our biggest fans spend lots of money on things they really value"."So we will enter the era of variable pricing, whereby companies create an experience for their fans, which they will either give away (as in F2P games) or charge for (as in paymium games, a model I think will be dominant on console for a fair while). At the moment, the biggest fan of a console game can spend, maybe $200 directly with the creator. In F2P games, the biggest fans can spend $10,000. Or even $100,000."That will come to consoles, because it makes good business sense and, if done right, it is great for players, letting those who love the game spend more to subsidise the experience of those who choose to spend less or no money on the experience."As an aside, I expect Paid DLC to come to an end too, as developers and publishers realise that expensive-to-produce content is best given away for free as a retention tool and instead charge for virtual currency or virtual goods that are both cheaper to produce AND have a higher perceived value for players."
A privacy bug within Google&apos;s Hangouts and Google Talk chat instant messaging services has confused message recipients and sent instant messages to other contacts as well as the intended recipient.It is unknown what exactly caused the messaging bug, which had privacy implications and the potential for messages to be redirected to embarrassing unintended recipients.One user, PardeepDhingra01,complained on Google&apos;s product support forumsthat &quot;while I was chatting with my other colleague, my chats [got] sent to my boss and my boss&apos; chats, which he sent to me, [got] sent to my colleague.&quot;The issue seems to have been limited to Google Talk users attempting to communicate with people who have migrated to Google&apos;s newer, replacement instant messaging platform,Google Hangouts.Google: &quot;Service is returning to normal&quot;The issue was first noticed at9.32AM on 26 September by Googlewho said: &quot;We&apos;re investigating reports of an issue with Google Talk.&quot;&quot;At this time Google Talk is not functioning correctly and we are continuing to work to restore full functionality,&quot; Google continued.However, the bug seems to have been resolved, as Google later saidas of 12:15PM, &quot;all services are gradually returning to normal. We will update when full service is restored.&quot;Google recently updated its mobile version of theGoogle Hangouts client for Android, although it is unclear whether the issue was caused by the update.• In August, Google saidusers shouldn&apos;t expect privacywhen using the company&apos;s Gmail email services.
A hoax advert shared on social networking sites has tricked iPhone users into thinking the latest software upgrade had also made their phones waterproof.The hoax claimed that iOS 7 included a &quot;smart-switch&quot; that automatically protected the iPhone&apos;s &quot;delicate circuitry ... it will shut off the phone&apos;s power supply and corresponding components to prevent any damage&quot;.The misleading rumour wascirculatedon Twitter, Facebook and other social networking sites and reinforced by a convincing spoof advert which mimicked Apple&apos;s own marketing material.The prank is believed to have originated from the controversial internet forum4Chan.iPhone users were tricked into thinking their devices were waterproof by a fake iOS7 advert. Photograph: BuzzfeedFooled by the fake advert, which included the statement &quot;waterproofing covered by Apple&apos;s warranty policy&quot;, some users reportedly upgraded their iPhones with iOS 7 and dunked them in water to test the new feature – only to discover they had just destroyed their expensive smartphones.Apple&apos;snew iPhones, including theiPhone 5Cand5S, cost between £469 and £709 without a contract, depending on the model. At launch in September 2012 theiPhone 5, last year&apos;s Apple flagship phone which also works with the new iOS7 software, cost £529 direct from Apple.Several users took to Twitter to vent their frustrations, including Joe whosaid&quot;Ok whoever said iOS 7 is waterproof GO F*** YOURSELF, &quot; and Ricardo Tamayo who also seeminglyfell for the prank too: &quot;Whoever said iOS 7 is Waterproof your phone.... F*** You&quot;.The iOS 7 update – which does not make devices waterproof – was released on 18 September, and despitesuffering from frustrating download delays, saw enormous demand thatdoubled both UK and German internet trafficand is estimated to have been downlaoded 100m times within 12 hours of release.•iOS 7 is a complete visual redesignof Apple&apos;s iPhone, iPad and iPod touch operating system combining flat design with bright colour and enhanced features.
Nokia's former chief executive reportedly turned down a request from the Finnish company's chairman to waive part of hiscontroversial £16m golden goodbye, on the grounds that he is going through a divorce.Stephen Elop's payoff, awarded after he helped sell Nokia to Microsoft earlier this month, has caused a political firestorm in Finland, with the prime minister, Jyrki Katainen, describing it as "quite outrageous".Nokia's chairman, Risto Siilasmaa, hasadmitted he misled shareholdersabout the fact that Elop had received a more lucrative payoff than predecessors. Elop will receive 18 months' salary and a "management short-term cash incentive" worth a combined €4.2m (£3.5m).To this will be added €14.6m in share awards, giving an overall package worth €18.8m. During his three years at the helm, Nokia's market capitalisation has more than halved. The company's smartphone arm, which once dominated mobile phone manufacturing, was sold to Microsoft for £4.5bn.Siilasmaa isreported by Finnish paper Helsingin Sanomatto have asked Elop several days ago to return some of the money. Sources told the paper that Elop argued he could not do so because under Finnish law his wife would be entitled to half of the £16m compensation. If he accepted less, there is supposedly no guarantee that she would in turn agree to a lower settlement.The legal position is unclear because Elop's wife lives in the United States, leaving open the question as to whether divorce proceedings could take place in the US or in Finland. A spokesman for Nokia refused to comment.Elop will return to the US to take up a senior position running Microsoft's expanding devices business, which will include Nokia. He is a leading candidate to succeed the software behemoth's long-serving chief executive, Steve Ballmer.Microsoft will pay 70% of Elop's leaving package, but its contribution was not enough to prevent a backlash. Finland's economy minister, Jan Vapaavuori, has reportedly said: "I find it difficult to understand the merits of this bonus."Elop's contract was amended days before the Microsoft deal was finalised, Siilasmaa told Helsingin Sanomat. This was because the chief executive would have the right to claim compensation for breach of contract if his role changed substantially as a result of the takeover."In both cases, he would have received the same compensation, but if the agreement had not been changed, Nokia's shareholders would have paid full compensation. Moreover, the mobile phone unit would have lost its leader for a transitional period," Siilasmaa said.Microsoft's decision to help fund Elop's payoff is unusual, its chairman claimed. "I am even a little proud," he added. "The matter was decided after the actual purchase price was agreed upon."
There's a palpable sense of excitement among the gaming community: we're about to enter a near-unprecedented period in the lead-up to Christmas, in which two new consoles will arrive, backed up by a glittering array of blockbusting games.Arguably the biggest (at least, now that we've all got our copies of GTA V) is Call of Duty: Ghosts. Appropriately, given its name, but annoyingly for gamers, CoD: Ghosts has remained somewhat elusive and shadowy since it was unveiled at the E3 Show in June (although a multiplayer event did map out that side of the game on a macro level). However, publisher Activision and developer Infinity Ward have begun to redress that balance, with an event in the City of London, in which we were treated to a fleshing out of details, as well as hands-on multiplay on the Xbox One. This is what we discovered.Single-player campaignOK, we know that these days CoD games are supposed to be all about the multi-play, but there are still plenty of traditionalists around who like to play it solo, and now that we've seen some of it, we're convinced that, for a CoD game, Ghosts' single-player campaign should be refreshingly original and innovative."At E3, we mentioned that in Ghosts, America has been rocked by an attack – because of this mass event, it is no longer a superpower," explains Infinity Ward's community manager, Tina Palacios. "Resources are very scarce, America is in disarray, and even the military is crippled at this point. Our characters are growing up in this world and we fast-forward about 10 years; that's where our story really kicks off."You play as Logan, alongside your brother Hesh, throughout the whole campaign. This is a first for us – we've never really given an origin story to our characters before, but we really wanted to go for it. But not only that; we want to focus on a single squad: the Ghosts."You and your brother heard about the Ghosts growing up, but you never really got to meet them, because it's very important to them that they hide their identity – that's why you see the masks and the face-paint. The reason for that is that they pose the biggest threat to the Federation, which is our new superpower enemy. They are very small in numbers, so it's crucial for them to fight behind enemy lines without being seen. You eventually come across them and join up."Alongside you and your brother, you'll also have a dog called Riley who, Palacios asserts, will operate as a proper character in the game. He has the ability to detect enemies, scout with a camera on his back and fight viciously on your behalf. Palacios gives a nice little insight into the development process when she says: "We didn't really know what we would do with Riley until we met Navy SEALs and their dogs. They brought them into the studio, and we saw the gear they wear, and got to see that they are serious members of the squad."As part of the demonstration, we were shown what may well be the opening mission of the campaign – a scene-setter, it prefaces the entrance of Logan, Hesh and Riley, but explains what happened to America. It takes place on a space station, where the American military is about to test-fire a new weapon it has created called ODIN – the Orbital Defence Initiative – which contains giants rods that can be dropped onto Earth, triggering the same sort of blast as a nuclear device, but without the radiation.Unfortunately, the space-station is overrun by the Federation, and despite some nifty shooting in zero-gravity conditions, you're unable to prevent them from dropping ODIN's deadly payload on every major American city – all of which are reduced to rubble. Thisnicely sets up the game's premise in which you're cast as a kind of American guerrilla. CoD: Ghosts certainly won't have to fight any allegations of glorifying the Stars and Stripes, and its storyline should be much more interesting as a result. Although we can't say how substantial it will be – Palacios steadfastly refused to provide even a ballpark play-through time.Squads – somewhere between solo and multiplayAnother aspect of Ghosts which is completely new to the Call of Duty franchise is a new gameplay mode called Squads. Previously, Infinity Ward had rather nebulously described it as existing somewhere between single-play and multiplay – essentially playing like multiplay, but with liberal use of AI-controlled bots.Palacios fleshed out the concept considerably: "Squads is separate from single-player and multiplayer. You'll create a squad of six of your favourite soldiers, and you can play with them, by yourself, against bots, with your favourite soldiers as team-mates. Or you can play with up to five of your friends as squads online. Or even pit your squad against other squads one-on-one."Squads has various modes. In Squad v Squad, you can compete against other players one-on-one. In Solo, you pick your five favourite soldiers against a squad of bots; that replicated the full multiplayer experience. There's a four-player co-op mode called Safeguard, inspired by Survival in Modern Warfare 3. You face waves of enemies, and get all the toys, like Perks and so on. And in Squad Assault mode, you and your friends play in an epic six-player co-op match against an offline player squad."Palacios was keen to emphasise that Squads is designed to be accessible to those who find CoD's full-blown multiplayer side intimidatingly challenging. Indeed, it sounds like a great means of learning the skills required to survive in multiplay against gentler bots. She confirmed that you will earn XP in Squads, although more slowly than in full-blown multiplay, and that one key aspect of Squads is setting each of your soldiers' load-outs very carefully, as that will effectively determine their fighting personality.Multiplay: coming into focusThe multiplayer side of CoD: Ghosts is the game's most crucial element – it will have to not just satisfy but enthuse a massive and unbelievably fanatical tribe of gamers. Infinity Ward has been nailing multiplay since CoD 2, though, so it knows what its audience likes. Clearly, the starting point for Ghosts' multiplay was that of Modern Warfare 3, and Palacios confirmed that feedback from the MW3 community has coloured the developer's approach to CoD: Ghosts.Strikes and KillstreaksPalacios went into the key aspects of Strikes and Killstreaks in some detail: "We've brought back the traditional Strike packages from MW3, but the key thing to remember here is that we really took on a lot of user feedback before creating these."In the Support package in MW3, a lot of people were upset with us for including the stealth bomber, because it gave people a lot of kills and it was a support Killstreak, so you didn't necessarily lose your Killstreaks when you died. So we took that out, and you won't see Killstreaks like that in this package. Essentially, your Killstreaks are about helping your team-mates in a unique way. The support strike package today is Satcom. It's our UAV system. You throw it on the ground, so the first one you get gives you eyes-on for your team-mates. By the fourth one you get, you'll get a directional UAV and really help out your team."We also have the MAWS: it's a laser and a rocket launcher. I know that sounds like something you can use really quickly in front of other opponents, but the key thing to remember is that when you shoot off these rockets, they're going to split off and then come back together, so you have to have really good aim to use them well."There's no tilting at windmills in Cod: Ghosts. The Federation and online foes give you plenty to get your MAWS around.PerksPalacios also outlined some of Ghosts' Perks, after explaining that the Perks system has been subtly altered so that you're no longer forced to choose Perks from different categories, although they are still categorised so that you can get an idea of what they do. The intention, she says, is to let people play how they want."Dead-eye is one of most expensive: when you get consecutive kills, you do more damage next time you shoot your weapon. There are guys in the studio who love to run around with shotguns, and by the time they get to their third kill, people are dying pretty quickly. Takedown prevents enemies from seeing where I killed their team-mates – if you don't want people rushing you when you've killed someone, this is really useful."Clan Wars and BlitzPalacios added some crucial detail to something that until now had remained mysterious: Clan Wars, the so-called meta-game that comes as part of the free CoD app for iOS, Windows Phone and Android. Clan Wars games will take place over a period of two weeks; every fortnight, clans will be able to pair up against each other and enact an epic battle over territory. The longer you hold your territory, the more points you get, and the team with the most points at the end of the fortnight will win the war. There will be certain objects in the game that you will only be able to get by winning Clan Wars.And she also unveiled a hitherto unmentioned multiplayer mode: "Blitz divides the map into two different territories, with a portal on each side. The object of the game is to get your team through the enemy portal to score a point, then it will send you back to your side."Hands-on with multiplayerAfter the presentation, we got some hands-on experience of CoD: Ghosts' multiplayer – thrillingly, on the Xbox One. Our overall impression was that CoD fans are unlikely to be disappointed, to say the least. CoD: Ghosts looks magnificent on the Xbox One, but the only real difference between the current-gen and next-gen versions are the graphics, so the fact that perhaps the most impressive aspect was the new-found fluidity of movement bodes well for those intending to play the game on their existing hardware.It wasn't long before players began mastering the knee-slide move, which lets you lurch forward onto your stomach while firing, ending up completely prone and therefore presenting a much smaller target to your opponent. That move requires confidence that you will take out your enemy before they can strafe, though, adding a couple of new techniques to the CoD multiplayer mix.We also fell foul of the Maniacs a few times – a Killstreak that turns you into a Juggernaut with a sprint and a knife. They are absolutely deadly but, Palacios explained, have been balanced by having their health regeneration removed.The maps we tried out, too, were stunning: one took place in a convincingly snowy environment, combining caves and the interiors of buildings. They seemed both easy to learn and surprisingly spacious.Call of Duty is, arguably, the biggest franchise in the games world – Rockstar Games, with Grand Theft Auto, may dispute that, but GTA only appears once every four or five years whereas CoD, with its twin developers is a hardy annual. The bad news for the nay-sayers who feel that a franchise as long-running as CoD must surely start to lose its appeal sometime soon is that, perhaps energised by the advent of the Xbox One and the PlayStation 4, Infinity Ward seems to come out with the freshest and most ambitious Call of Duty for years. If anything, the CoD juggernaut is picking up speed, rather than juddering to a halt.
Google will be criticised by MPs for making "derisory" attempts to curb music and film piracy and using its "perceived power and influence" at the heart of David Cameron's government to shore up its position.TheCommons culture, media and sport select committeeaccused the search engine of offering the thinnest of excuses to avoid taking action against widespread piracy, a problem that the committee claimed is costing the creative industries millions of pounds in lost revenue a year.Tory MP John Whittingdale, the chairman of the committee, said his fellow MPs were "unimpressed by Google's continued failure to stop directing consumers to illegal, copyright infringing material on the flimsy excuse that some of the sites may also host some legal content. The continuing promotion of illegal content through search engines is simply unacceptable, and efforts to stop it have so far been derisory."In a report, published on Thursday, the MPs also said Google was foremost among internet giants in being able to influence coalition policy-making. MPs said they had received "numerous complaints" from across the creative industries about Google's "perceived power and influence in the government's inner, policy-making sanctum".The report highlighted a remark by the business minister Lord Younger, who told the MPs in evidence to their committee: "Google is one of several search engines and I am very aware of their power, put it that way. I am also very aware … that they have access, for whatever reason, to higher levels than me in No 10, I understand."Google's links with government have been the focus of scrutiny in the past, with the company's senior vice president of communications, Rachel Whetstone, the partner of Cameron's one-time policy guru Steve Hilton. But the MPs' report itself did not cite any individual Google employees or political advisers.MPs added that internet pirates convicted of running commercial websites that rip off music, films and video games should face up to a decade in jail, up from the current maximum of two years.Google insists it does take down copyright-infringing material when it is brought to its attention. But the company has come underincreased pressure from creative industry groups for moving too slowly– or sometimes taking no action.New figures provided to MPs by the UK music body, the BPI, suggest that 61% of the top 10 sites in a sample of Google searches for popular artists, such as Katy Perry or Lady Gaga, are for pirated material, compared to 63% a year ago.A Google spokesman said: "We removed more than 20 million links to pirated content from our search results in the last month alone. But search is not the problem – according to Ofcom just 8% of infringers in the UK use Google to find unlicensed film and 13% to find unlicensed music. Google works harder than anyone to help the film and music industry protect their content online."The suggestion to raise the custodial penalty for piracy is not new – it was proposed in a private members bill by Vince Cable long before he became a minister in 2002 – but was reignited last year by thethe conviction of Anton Vickerman, a 38-year-old man from Gateshead who was sentenced to four years in prison for running a website that linked to pirated copies of films and TV shows. Vickerman was accused of generating £50,000 a month from the website, but was only handed a four-year jail term after being convicted of conspiracy to defraud instead of under existing copyright law.Whittingdale said: "Britain's creative industries are of huge importance to our economy and as successful as any in the world. We are blessed in the UK with extraordinary creativity which is backed up by superb training in technical skills and a supportive tax regime. However, all this will be put at risk if creators cannot rely on a strong framework of intellectual property rights which are robustly enforced."In the report, the MPs said: "If organised crime involving online piracy on a commercial scale is to be tackled and deterred, it is essential that this discrepancy between the online and offline worlds be rectified."Serious copyright infringers should be targeted with warning letters without further delay, the MPs said. They urged the government to resolve the current impasse over the Digital Economy Act by implementing the Online Copyright Infringement Code, which allows internet providers to send cautions to suspected copyright abusers.
How to ensure children aren't blowing their parents' digital wallets on in-app purchases on smartphones or tablets? The UK's Office of Fair Trading has some ideas, outlined in itsChildren's Online Games report published earlier today.The OFTlaunched its investigation in April this yearafter a spate of reports of children spending three or four-figure sums on virtual items without their parents' knowledge or permission.The OFT examined 38 web and mobile games as part of its research, while also accepting submissions from around 160 parents and 40 "industry stakeholders". Its report says the apps industry does have a case to answer, particularly around pressuring children to make in-game purchases.The results of the consultation are eight proposed principles for the industry to follow, with the OFT inviting further responses from parents and stakeholders by 21 November before final versions are published early in 2014. In theory, from April any app developers that flout these principles will face "enforcement action" under existing UK consumer protection laws.You canread the 30-page report as a PDFor justbrowse the eight principles also as a PDF. Here are some thoughts on the finer points of the OFT's conclusions, and some of the new questions that they raise.Sensible and welcome guidelinesThere isn't much controversy in the eight principles: they can be summed up in the OFT'sheadline for its press release: "Games industry should not pressure children to purchase".While making costs for apps and games clearer before they're downloaded or played is part of that, there's plenty more in the report outlining the kind of gameplay design that risks prosecution under those existing laws. The OFT has taken pains to outline positive and negative examples for each principle, rooting the theory in developer practice.After a few read-throughs overnight, there is nothing that seems like it will clamp down unfairly on developers' ability to make money, contrary to the fears of some trade bodies (more on that later).It's also a good (if dispiriting) insight into some of the techniques that have been used in the past, with the devil often in the detail. App store screenshots, for example: the OFT is unimpressed with the idea of a game based on collecting horses that is free to download, but whose promotional screenshots show "the stable full with horses" that would have to be paid for with real money.It also targets developers who prompt players to pay without letting them know that they could earn the same virtual items by waiting or "grinding", citing the example of "USE A SEED to finish growing the plant now" without additional text explaining that the alternative is to wait 30 minutes.Telling players to "click here to get more" of a virtual item without making it clear that an in-app purchase will be initiated is also criticised, as are games that "implied that consumers who did not make a purchase would let others down – either other players or characters in the game". Something that the OFT sees children as particularly susceptible to.It looks like it's curtains for games involving sick pets who can only be cured by a speedy infusion of gems, in other words. Even the developers who've built their businesses on such practices will struggle to find convincing faults with the OFT's principles.Some of this is happening alreadyApple has been the chief whipping boy in media coverage of children overspending on in-app purchases, largely because at the time – 2012 and early 2013 – iOS was still the key platform for children's apps. But reading through the OFT report, it struck me that Apple has been putting some of its implementations into place already.The OFT's desire for in-app purchases to be signalled upfront, for example, is already reflected inthe "Offers In-App Purchases" warningon freemium iOS app listings in Apple's App Store, which was introduced in March. Before that, the store was also showing lists of popular IAP purchases on those apps' pages.Meanwhile, the store's new Kids category comes with its own stricter rules for developers about using "parental gates" to double-check that the iTunes account holder is aware of in-app purchases, as well as a demand for clear privacy policies. Apple saw the way the winds were blowing (not just from the OFT, but in the US too) and acted accordingly.The report also suggests that by default, devices should require a password to be entered every time a purchase is made – that infamous 15-minute window allowing kids to spend willy-nilly after their parents had entered an iTunes password to download a game is frowned upon, and rightly so.There are tweaks: the report suggest that app store listings could include the range of prices for IAP in a particular game, not just the most popular ones (e.g. "in-app purchases ranging from 69p to £1.99 are available") – something that may help parents spot games whose IAP goes up as high as £69.99.I sense that the OFT report may direct more attention beyond Apple and iOS though, comparing its policies with those of Google, Amazon and other Android app store owners, for example. With Android tablet sales growing fast – not to mention explicitly family-focused devices like Samsung's Galaxy Tab Kids and Tesco's Hudl – this issue shouldn't be seen as an Apple-only thing.Clash of Clans isn't a children's game, but children do play itWhat is a children's game anyway?The big question that the OFT's report doesn't quite nail is that of what counts as a children's game and what doesn't. Many of the cases involving kids over-spending on IAP have been in games not specifically targeted at children.A few minutes browsing MailOnline, which has beenenthusiastically covering this issue, reveals cases involving My Horse, Smurfs' Village, Hay Day, Campus Life, Zombie Takeover, Clash of Clans, Tiny Monsters, Tap Zoo and Zombies vs Ninja. How many of these qualify as "children's" games as opposed to games with a wide audience that includes children?It's a point that is addressed in the report, a bit, when the OFT refers to the 38 games examined as part of its research. "The OFT considers that most of the games it has examined are either directed at or likely to appeal to children (and that traders can foresee this)" it explains. Later, there's a reference to "where it is reasonably foreseeable that a game will be likely to appeal to children".A pragmatic view might be that all mobile games would benefit from ditching commercially aggressive practices that try to push people towards buying in-app purchases.But when it comes to enforcing the principles in this report, I wonder if the OFT will run into problems if it tries to take on games that aren't aimed just at children. Not least because it's impossible to tell what proportion of a mobile game's players are adult – children are playing on devices linked to their parents' iTunes accounts, not their own.Apps as a global businessThe OFT may be showing its teeth when it comes to commercially aggressive children's apps, but this is a global business: what effect will guidelines in the UK have if they're not reflected elsewhere?That's addressed in the report too: "We intend to share the Principles with our international consumer enforcement counterparts to achieve consistency – as far as possible and where jurisdictional differences permit – in compliance and enforcement strategies," explains the OFT.It's a reminder that the real enforcement role may be for those app store owners: Apple, Google, Microsoft and others. The principles may usefully feed in to their app store approval policies (posing more of a question for Google on that front, since it doesn't operate the same kind of pre-approval submissions policy for the Google Play store).It's not just about stricter rules though: the app store owners have key roles to play in a more positive sense: the children's apps and games that they promote on their stores, helping parents to discover the ethical ones and so help their developers run successful businesses.There's also a role for games industry bodies to play, perhaps better than they've been playing it so far. UK body Ukie's response to the OFT report, for example, places as much emphasis on the risk that the final guidelines might "stifle the creativity of games developers or prevent the growth of the UK games industry" as it does on protecting that industry's players.Ukie's claim that "the games industry takes its responsibility to children very seriously" is undermined by some of the examples in the report. But bodies like Ukie and TIGA in the UK can play an important part in that industry's growth by helping developers get to grips with the ethical ins and outs of children's games.Every time a parent gets stung by surprise in-app purchases and relates the tale at the school gate, or every time a £3,000 iTunes bill is splashed over newspapers or websites, it's a bad thing for responsible children's app developers too, in terms of eroding parental trust.Rather than restraining developers' ability to make money, the OFT's principles have the potential to help build a bigger, responsible children's apps market – with Apple, Google, developers and industry bodies important participants.Update:in a statement released after this article was published, TIGA provided its own positive take on the report. "It is absolutely vital the FTP games model provides clear protection for gamers, particularly children, and proper guidance for parents and developers alike," said chief executive Dr. Richard Wilson."TIGA has been working with the OFT to develop these principles, having submitted evidence earlier this year, and it's encouraging to see that many of our recommendations have been taken into account, especially the principles of absolute transparency and a consistent global approach, in keeping with the export-driven nature of the UK video game industry."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Rockstar's Dan Houser would still love to make another Bully game | PolygonIn a recent interview with the co-writer of GTA V, Polygon asked if there was any chance of a sequel to cult school sim, Bully:"I know I want to," Houser said. "Well, hopefully, you never know. There's a lot of directions I could go with that one, it's funny."One idea that some people have suggested to Houser is that Rockstar makes a game about Bully protagonist Jimmy Hopkins as an adult, and that the game be a Grand Theft Auto title.Houser says, that likely won't happen."I never saw him as being that level of degenerate," he said. "I saw him as a bad teen, because he comes from a tough home, who could go either direction. He's not going to be a carjacker. He's too white collar for that already. He's at a shit private school, but he's going to end up being really happy because he's at the worst bit of his life, or being a sort of messed up white collar doofus."Yes, but what about a follow-up to The Warriors?!NVIDIA Interview: The Sky Isn't Falling | PC PowerPlay MagazineTony Tamasi, senior VP of content and technology at Nvidia, tells us why consoles will no onger be able to out-power PCs – not that this was ever really the point of them, but there you go:"It's no longer possible for a console to be a better or more capable graphics platform than the PC. I'll tell you why. In the past, certainly with the first PlayStation and PS2, in that era there weren't really good graphics on the PC. Around the time of the PS2 is when 3D really started coming to the PC, but before that time 3D was the domain of Silicon Graphics and other 3D workstations. Sony, Sega or Nintendo could invest in bringing 3D graphics to a consumer platform. In fact, the PS2 was faster than a PC."By the time of the Xbox 360 and PS3, the consoles were on par with the PC. If you look inside those boxes, they're both powered by graphics technology by AMD or NVIDIA, because by that time all the graphics innovation was being done by PC graphics companies. NVIDIA spends 1.5 billion US dollars per year on research and development in graphics, every year, and in the course of a console's lifecycle we'll spend over 10 billion dollars into graphics research. Sony and Microsoft simply can't afford to spend that kind of money. They just don't have the investment capacity to match the PC guys; we can do it thanks to economy of scale, as we sell hundreds of millions of chips, year after year."This can have absolutely nothing to do with Sony and Microsoft both going to Nvidia's rival AMD for their next-gen processor tech.Inside Paradox, the strangest company in video games | Eurogamer.netAnother excellent Eurogamer feature, this time on the creators of hardcore strategy titles like Crusader Kings II and Europa Universalis IV:Under Wester, Paradox's openness has lead to some particularly noteworthy statements, including last year's direct admission that strategy title Magna Mundi was cancelled because Paradox did not trust the development team. Wester says Paradox's only rule for communication is that "it must be something you'd let your mother read," though that hasn't stopped him from indulging in the occasional snark. One Wester classic: "Ubisoft was recently bragging about having the biggest 3DS portfolio. It's like having the best typewriters."Reddy: Women in the industry must play their roleMedia Molecule studio head Siobhan Reddy has used her keynote speech at the Women In Games conference to compel women to be more proactive in making changes in the industry, and revealed how that led to her demanding a female character for Tearaway."It's up to us as the women of the industry to be able to play our role in changing the perceptions of the technology fields, because otherwise the changes will come much slower," she said."It was important to me that we investigate a female lead on Tearaway. That doesn't mean that I think that every single game, book, television show needs to be for the broadest audience... but for this it was really important to me."You can find out more about Women in Games at theorganisation's website.Miyamoto: producers 'don't need me anymore' | CVG UKThe Official Nintendo Magazine has an interview with Miyamoto in its 100th edition. In it, he confeses that he's not really needed on the Zelda, Super Mario and Mario Kart teams anymore:"As you saw at our presentation at E3, Mr Aonuma chased me off stage... he doesn't need me any more!" Miyamoto replied, referring to Zelda series producer Eiji Aonuma. "The final responsibility for the title still comes down to me and I'm still involved in the games, but I'm definitely able to leave the series up to him in a way."I don't have to look at every minute detail of every game any more. I know there's going to be the level of quality that we expect under his supervision."The good news is, he's working on an unannounced new title for Wii U...You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamData broker giants hacked by ID theft service &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityUntil very recently, the source of the data sold by SSNDOB has remained a mystery. That mystery began to unravel in March 2013, when teenage hackers allegedly associated with the hacktivist group UGNazi showed just how deeply the service's access went. The young hackers used SSNDOB to collect data for exposed.su, a Web site that listed the SSNs, birthdays, phone numbers, current and previous addresses for dozens of top celebrities — such as performers Beyonce, Kayne West and Jay Z — as well as prominent public figures, including First Lady Michelle Obama, CIA Director John Brennan, and then-FBI Director Robert Mueller.Uh-oh.Google Maps wipes out Scottish island of Jura &gt;&gt; BBC NewsJuly 2013:The internet giant Google has said sorry after the Scottish island of Jura disappeared from its online maps.Internet users noticed on Tuesday that the island, off the west coast of the Kintyre Peninsula, was visible on the satellite view but not the maps view.iPhone map app directs Fairbanks drivers onto airport taxiway &gt;&gt; Alaska DispatchSeptember 2013:At least twice in the past three weeks, drivers from out of town who followed the directions on their iPhones not only reached airport property, but also crossed the runway and drove to the airport ramp side of the passenger terminal."These folks drove past several signs. They even drove past a gate. None of that cued them that they did something inappropriate," said Melissa Osborn, chief of operations at the Fairbanks airport.The first carbon nanotube computer &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewFor the first time, researchers have built a computer whose central processor is based entirely on carbon nanotubes, an incredibly tiny form carbon with remarkable material and electronic properties. The computer is slow and simple, but its creators, a group of Stanford University engineers, say it shows that carbon nanotube electronics are a viable potential replacement for silicon when it reaches its limits in ever-smaller electronic circuits.The carbon nanotube processor is comparable in capabilities to the Intel 4004, that company's first microprocessor, which was released in 1971, says Subhasish Mitra, an electrical engineer at Stanford and one of the project's co-leaders.Microsoft's most loyal users ask for Surface trade-in program &gt;&gt; ComputerworldOne of the first questions during the two-hour chat session was on just that topic."Any news on a potential trade-in scheme for current Surface RT/Pro owners to get money off the new devices?" asked someone identified as "Exilify."Others jumped on the idea. "I'd love to shell out some for [Surface Pro 2] if I had a good incentive," said "johnlennin," joining the chorus. "Dealing with eBay and Craigslist would be a pain ... I hope you guys consider it and if so announce it soon."Some argued that they should be rewarded for being early Surface adopters who jumped on the bandwagon while others dissed the platform.Not sure Microsoft would want a one-for-one trade of old for new Surfaces.Dell drops XPS 10, leaving Microsoft's Surface as sole Windows RT tablet | PCWorldDell was the only device maker other than Microsoft selling a Windows RT tablet after Lenovo, Asus, and Samsung bailed out on the device. Dell is holding its tablet event ahead of Microsoft's release of Windows 8.1 RT as a free download for existing Windows RT devices after 18 October. Microsoft on Monday announced Surface 2, which is the first tablet based on Windows 8.1 RT.Analysts said Dell could launch an XPS 10 successor with Windows RT 8.1, but chances are remote.Right now, no device maker is interested in Windows RT other than Microsoft with its Surface 2, said Patrick Moorhead, founder and president of Moor Insights and Strategy."I think all we can assume is that Dell sold out their current inventory of RT tablets," Moorhead said.Dell's going to go with Android, and Windows 8. So Microsoft's going to save RT with the Surface 2? Good luck with that.The shittiest project I ever worked on &gt;&gt; The Universe of DiscourseMark Dominus:Anyway, we finally got it just right, and it had been approved by multiple layers of management and given a gold star by the Compliance Department, and my clients took it to the Prudential Real Estate people for a demonstration.His day was about to get worse.Timeline Photos &gt;&gt; Samsung Gulf on FacebookHave you seen the new elegant #GalaxyS4 new #GoldEdition colors? Gold Brown or Gold Pink — with BuJoyee Fabiano Dilla.One for the discerning Gulf owner (in both senses) rather than global distribution.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Property search siteZooplahas been voted Europe&apos;s &apos;most exciting investor-backed company&apos; in advance of its widely expected initial public offering.Zoopla hired investment bank Credit Suisse in early September to explore how the company can grow its business, which could includea listing on the London Stock Exchange.The six-year old site could be valued at as much as £1.3bn, reflecting growing house prices and a maturity in the tech startup space.Venture capitalists at the Investor Allstars event run by investment bank GP Bullhound in London voted for Zoopla ahead of Rovio, the Finnish firm responsible for Angry Birds, and travel firm Secret Escapes.Swedish payment service Klarna also lost out, as well as pet health store Medicanimal, French digital distribution service Believe Digital and Fly Victor, the marketplace for private jets.To enter, companies had to be European, demonstrate growth of 100% over the past two years and show minimum revenue of €10m in 2012.Zoopla&apos;s chief executive Alex Chesterman said thatsince the site launched in 2008, it had helped to consolidate a market of 20 competing property websites into just two - with Right Move now Zoopla&apos;s only significant competitor online.Chesterman, a co-founder of film rental service Lovefilm, said he had approached Zoopla&apos;s business with the same strategy of market consolidation.&quot;We set out with the same objective, to make consumers lives better by giving them a better experience and a greater selection,&quot; he said.&quot;The consumer experience was poor – all those other players focused on UK property search classified ads in much the same way as newspapers had always done. But we focus on the peripheral information - what the house last sold for, what the schools are like and what newspaper the neighbours read. All this stuff is out there, in 18 places, so we just made it a one stop shop.&quot;The property slump meant that Zoopla was able to buy11 competitorsinfour yearsat relatively low value, closing those which duplicated its service and keeping open niche sites for new homes, overseas property and high end. It is due to open a new commercial property portal in December.Zoopla has 40m monthly users, claims to generate 2.5m monthly leads for estate agents and, in August, recorded 46% of its monthly views on mobile. It is expected to generate £65m in revenues for 2013 and revenue growth of 20% per year, generated by subscription fees from estate agents and developers, display advertising and access to consumer data.• In 2011, Zoopla addedprice heat mapsto its tools.• The Guardian is media partner to theInvestor Allstarsevent. Read thefull list of winnersannounced on 25 September.Investor Allstars 2013
It's the news gamers have been waiting for, and few will be surprised that their suspicions have been confirmed. Computer game giant Valve has announced that a range of consoles, based around its Steam digital gaming platform, will be launched in 2014.Described by the company as 'a powerful new category of living-room hardware', the Steam Machines will essentially be high-performance PCs with capabilities designed around gaming and other entertainment applications. Valve will not build the consoles itself, instead it is working with 'multiple partners', and there will be various models to choose from, all with different tech specs and price points (which are set to be revealed in more depth later). All the machines will run the SteamOS, a streamlined operating systemannounced by Valve on Monday.Although the finished products will not be released until 2014, Valve has revealed that it is building 300 prototypes this year, and will distribute these free of charge to lucky members of its Steam Universe community group. The company explains who is eligible onits official site.Although Valve no doubt has the base specifications of the Steam Machines in mind, the company is emphasizing the open nature of the platform. Manufacturers will be able to add their own features and users will be free to hack the box, changing the OS, adapting the hardware and using it for their own projects.This adaptable model contrasts highly with traditional games consoles which have closed, highly controlled systems. It is closer in philosophy to the burgeoning range of cheap, modifiable game boxes based on the Android operating system – the likes of the Ouya and GameStick. Veteran gamers may also recall the 3DO console, released in 1993, which provided the hardware architecture blueprints to third-party manufacturers who then produced their own versions.That machine was doomed to failure, blown out of the market by the original Sony Playstation. Valve, though, is a much bigger player. Its Steam digital distribution platform features almost 3000 downloadable PC games and boasts around 50 million users. Such a high profile new entry into the living room entertainment space could have serious consequences for the forthcoming PlayStation 4 and Xbox One consoles. At the same time, cable and satellite companies, as well as set-top box and TV manufacturers are also looking to edge in on this sector, with their own broadband-powered app stores and on-demand music and video services. And naturally, Google and Apple are watching how the living room multimedia concept develops.Meanwhile, Valve is not finished yet – the company says it has one more announcement to make this week. It could be a long-awaited update to its respectedSource games engine, or it may be a new game. Fans have been waiting several years for Half-Life 3, a fabled third title in the legendary sci-fi shooter series. If SteamOS and Steam Machine were the appetizers, Half-Life 3 would be the Michelin-starred main course to die for.
With 200m devices already updated to run Apple's iOS 7 software, and app updates hitting its App Store in their tens of thousands, the company has revealed plans for a global series ofiOS 7 Tech Talksto help developers make the most of the new software.The two-day events will take place in six cities in December: San Francisco, Shanghai, New York, Berlin, Tokyo and London. Each event will be split between a day covering general apps, and another focusing on games."Get in-depth guidance about developing for iOS 7, learn practical coding tips and tricks, and obtain valuable one-on-one programming and design assistance in our lab," explained an email sent to registered iOS developers tonight, who are only allowed to register for one day each.The apps days will include sessions on user interface design for iOS 7; the ins and outs of the iPhone 5s' 64-bit A7 processor; App Store marketing advice; security and privacy tips; and features from iOS 7 including background downloading, silent push notifications and iBeacon.The games days will take a deeper dive into features like OpenGL ES 3.0; the Sprite Kit framework for 2D games; more security and privacy (including much-needed advice on how to "prevent game score tampering"); Game Center and Apple's new MFi game controller specs; and the App Store marketing session.Videos of the sessions will be posted after the last event, London's games day, on 18 December. Don't expect too much information to be coming out while the events are happening, though."Taking photographs, recording video, and/or engaging in any form of live blogging during the iOS 7 Tech Talks is expressly prohibited," explains Apple's terms and conditions, which also warn that "solicitation or selling of items or services is not allowed at the iOS 7 Tech Talks".This isn't the first time Apple has run such events. In late 2011 and early 2012 itheld Tech Talk sessions in nine cities around the world, fulfilling a similar function for its iOS 5 software.The talks play an important role for Apple, given the popularity of its annual WWDC event in San Francisco, where new versions of iOS are traditionally announced. Tickets to this year's conferencesold out in two minutes. The Tech Talks tour gives developers who missed out on WWDC another chance for face-time with Apple's iOS team.
All internet connections to Sudan were cut off abruptly on Wednesday afternoon, after riots erupted in northern Khartoum over the ending of fuel subsidies.The move to cut connections appears to have been done by the government to prevent protesters using social media to organise riots. "From the connectivity data alone, we cannot tell whether the blackout is government directed." Doug Madory from internet monitoring firm Renesys told the Guardian. "However, it is either a coincidental catastrophic failure of all three independent internet providers and their connections out of Sudan, including a terrestrial link into Egypt - unlikely given its not just a single connection - or some centrally directed, government action."He added: "Normally with a failure of this type that isn't governmentally directed, like a power failure or a cut cable, internet providers switch to their satellite backups, but we haven't seen that in this case. It is a total shutdown, as happened previously in Egypt."Cutting off internet connectivity has been used by some governments in Middle Eastern countries attempting to regain control amid heated protests. Thenow-defunct Mubarak regime in Egyptand the Assad regime inSyriahave both severed internet links to try to restrict protests. Cutting international links also makes it more difficult to upload videos of protests to YouTube.RenesyssaidSudan's internet connectivity dipped at 1030 and then dropped to zero just before 13:00 UTC on Wednesday. Arbor Networks, another internet monitoring company, confirmed the report, seeing the same dip-and-drop movement.Sudan internet connectivity on Wednesday 25 September, as seen by Arbor NetworksProtests broke out after the Sudanese government removed fuel subsidies, with several petrol stations and a university building set on fire, Reutersreported. Security forces fired teargas to disperse dozens of protesters who have demonstrated and set fire to a police station in Khartoum.The protests have gone on for three days after Sudan's Council of Ministers decided to stop the subsidies. That caused an immediate doubling in the price of fuel.The cut in subsidies follows the split of South Sudan to form an independent state in 2011, which took more of the main oil-producing territory which had previously been part of Sudan. The International Monetary Fund has previously told Sudan to cut the subsidies, because they consumed more than 75% of the government's total tax revenues.
Searching for a hairdresser? An affordable restaurant? A quality massage? You&apos;ve probably used Yelp – or some other online review site.But it was only a matter of time before some of these reviewers got caught out being economical with the truth. In order to highlight the growing prevalence of fake reviews, usually called‘astroturfing’, the attorney general in New York set up a fake yoghurt shop in a sting called Operation Clean Turf. Eric Schneiderman announced on Monday that 19 companies had commissioned fake reviews on popular online sites.They were fined a total of $350,000.But this just scratches the surface, so you’ll still need to search with caution; there are 42 million reviews to sift through on Yelp alone, and as many as 90% of consumers rely on online reviews before purchasing online.Here’s our guide to what a shady internet review looks like:Avoid the hyperbolic reviewSpare us the flowery description – if you can’t see someone saying it in a normal conversation, chances are it’s bogus. Here are a couple of examples from La Pomme nightclub, one of the places listed in the sting:'In a land far away... Photograph: yelp.comAvoid the cliches and search for detail – that’s what reviews are for. Here&apos;s another gem fromLa Pomme&apos;spage, which, by the way, still only manages to net two and a half stars.Skin protecting pulp?! Photograph: yelp.comWhat does that feel like? Photograph: yelp.comWatch for crazy spelling – and punctuationDid your mother ever tell you not to trust people who can’t spell? (If she didn’t, she meant to.)Unreasonable. Photograph: citysearch.comWhich brings us to punctuation. There&apos;s no need to get trigger-happy with your exclamation points. The following are from the Medical Massage Clinic in Flushing – also on the attorney general&apos;s naughty list:Yeah!!! Photograph: citysearch.comPerfect service comes with imperfect punctuation Photograph: yellowpages.comThe nonsense factorIs this next one really necessary? This one&apos;s fromMetamorphosis Day Spa:No more important thing than adjustable gurneys. Photograph: yelp.comMore foolproof tips:Read through the review.The more reliable reviews are often not the first ones you see – likethisexample of US Coachways, one of the companies caught in the sting. If there are comments that express confusion or bewilderment, look elsewhere. Also, on Yelp, check out the filtered tab, where companies can bump reviews from the main reviews listing.Check the reviewer&apos;s account history.A quick check on the reviewer&apos;s account can’t hurt. If they only have one review up or if every one of their reviews has five stars, you might want to get a second opinion.Make IRL friends.That way, if you lose an eyebrow or if the gurney is not up to your standards, you have someone to blame.
Amazon has kicked off a fresh round of tablet competition with rivals Google and Apple - and newcomer Tesco - by announcing updated Kindle Fires with high-resolution screens.Chief executive Jeff Bezos said he aimed to "revolutionise customer support" via a video link to its customer service system where users who are having problems can summon help by pressing a red button."With a single tap, an Amazon expert will appear on your Fire HDX and can co-pilot you through any feature by drawing on your screen, walking you through how to do something yourself, or doing it for you - whatever works best," Bezos added. "You shouldn't have to be afraid of your device.""Amazon's new offerings are aimed squarely at Google's Nexus tablets," said Tim Coulling, senior analyst at the consultancy Canalys.Introducing the tablets at a Seattle event, Bezos seemed to get in a dig at Google's disparate Android partners. He said the services the new range was offering - such as integration with the Amazon app on internet-connected TVs to show video, or showing song lyrics when an Amazon-bought MP3 is playing on the tablet - are only possible because Amazon provides the hardware, operating system, applications, cloud infrastructure and services for the devices. The "hardest and coolest" services such as its "Mayday" service lie at the intersection of "customer delight" and "deep integration through the entire stack," he said.The smaller 7in Kindle Fire HDX sports a full HD, 1920x1200 display - matching the resolution on the new Google Nexus 7 - and a 2.2GHz quad-core processor (upped from last year's dual-core 1.2GHz) and 2GB of RAM. Amazon claims its battery will last for around 11 hours of mixed use.The larger 8.9in Kindle Fire HDX also has a high-resolution display which at 2560x1600 pixels matches theGoogle Nexus 10's screenand betters the "retina" Apple iPad's 2048x1536. Combined with a smaller screen size - 8.9in versus 9.7in for the iPad - that gives it a resolution of 339 pixels per inch (ppi) compared to 264ppi for the iPad, which should make images sharper. It has the same processor and RAM as its smaller sibling, and claims a slightly longer 12-hour battery life. Both tablets come with 16GB, 32GB or 64GB of built-in storage, and for the first time with an option for 4G/LTE high-speed mobile data connectivity.As with previous Kindle Fire tablets, Amazon has "Special Offers" versions which are $15 cheaper but put Amazon ads on the device lockscreen.Prices start at $229 for the ad-supported 7-inch Kindle Fire HDX with 16GB of storage with Wi-Fi only, increasing to $424 for the 64GB variant with 4G and without ads in the US. The larger 8.9-inch Kindle Fire HDX with the same 16GB of storage and adverts costs $379 with Wi-Fi, and reaches $594 for 64GB of storage and 4G without ads.Both new Amazon tablets are now available for pre-order in the US, shipping starting 18 October depending on model. UK pricing and release dates have yet to be set.Between May and July period, Kindles accounted for 17% of all tablets sold in the US, compared to 48% for Apple's iPad and 8% for Samsung's Galaxy line, according to research group NPD. The US is Amazon's strongest market generally for its tablets.Googleupgraded the Nexus 7 in Julywith a faster processor and higher-resolution screen. On paper, the 7in Amazon Kindle Fire HDX now matches or beats those specifications.The introduction comes against a backdrop of rapidly expanding sales in the tablet market. Global tablet shipments hit 125.6m in 2012, according to research by consultancy firm IDC, but total tablet sales reached 94.3m in the first half of 2013, more than double that for the same period in 2012 - showing a dramatic increase in consumer demand.Tablets are also challenging PC sales. Global tablet sales are projected to hit 84.1m in the fourth quarter of 2013 by IDC, and to overtake PC sales, which are projected to reach just 83.1m in the same period.Within the tablet market the competition is fierce. Apple's iPad, which is widely expected to be replaced in the next month, dominates tablet shipments with 65.7m tablets shipped in 2012, representing 52% of the global tablet market, according to IDC.Over the same period, Amazon shipped 10.4m Kindle Fire tablets globally, while Google said it shipped 7m Nexus tablets in 2012.The smaller Kindle Fire tablets have sold well for Amazon, although it has had issues upselling buyers to the more expensive 8.9in versions," said Coulling. "At that size and price consumers often go with recognised computer brands like Samsung or Apple."However, unlike the Google Nexus 7, orTesco's Hudl tablet, Amazon's Kindle Fires lack access to the Google Play store, which has drawbacks, said Coulling: "Amazon's positioning the Kindle Fire tablets simply to guide people to Amazon's content, making them restricted and lag behind fully featured Android tablets and Apple's iPad."That limits the number of apps and other media accessible to the tablets to the 75,000 currently offered in Amazon's own app store, compared to Google Play's 600,000 and Apple's App Store's 800,000 active apps."The lack of Google Play access is a deal-breaker for many people, as a tablet is only as good as the content offering that's available to it, especially apps," said Coulling.Amazon also dropped the price of the existing Kindle Fire HD to $139 in the US, making it "incredibly aggressively priced and likely to fly off the shelves this Christmas," according to Coulling.•Tesco's new Hudl tablet is a £119 Android tabletwith more to offer than you'd expect for the price.• Tablets are expected tooutsell PCs in the run up to Christmas, and outsell PCs worldwidewithin two years
This week on on the pod withAleks Krotoski, we discuss the dark clouds gathering over BlackBerry ahead of themobile phone manufacturer's sale.Tech and telco expert Benedict Evansjoins the Guardian tech team,Jemima KissandCharles Arthur, to discuss the company's uncertain future.Jemima Kiss meets Instagram's new director of businessEmily Whiteto discuss the future plans for the fast growing social and photo sharing site. Bought by Facebook for a cool $1bn, Emily explains why Instagram are keen to play the long game with profits and make sure they develop the best user experience they can.You can see a video version of this interview by clicking here.Guardian technology journalistSamuel Gibbsjoins the team to sum up his hands-on with Tesco's new tablet, the Hudl.You can view a video of Samuel's hands-on with the Hudl here.This year'sFutureFest 2013takes place in Shoreditch in London on 28 and 29 September. The festival is a celebration of technologies and science that are building future industries and societies. Aleks talks to festival curatorPat Kaneabout the highlights of the festival and why, if you're in London, you should make your way to one of its many events.
Seven months after launching within the company's Angry Birds games, Rovio's ToonsTV videos channel has passed 1bn total views.The Finnish company is working on a second series of its Angry Birds Toons cartoon that will debut in 2014, as well as spin-offs for its pig characters, and the pink bird Stella. However, it's also going to start distributing videos from other companies.ToonsTV has new deals with POW! Entertainment for Chakra the Invincible, a show created by comics veteran Stan Lee; with National Geographic Kids for its Amazing Animals show; and with The Jim Henson Company for Fraggle Rock.Other partners include Hasbro Studios and Xilam Animation, as Rovio flexes its distribution muscles. The companyended 2012 with 263m monthly active playersof its Angry Birds games on smartphones and tablets, and it's to this community thatthe ToonsTV channel launched in March this year."Given the size of our reach and our massively engaged audience, it seemed only natural to extend beyond our own storytelling and partner with the best content creators to bring our fans even more fun entertainment," said Rovio's chief executive Mikael Hed in a statement.Rovio announced plans for the new shows and third-party distribution strategy in an event at New York's Advertising Week, where it was courting brands to advertise on ToonsTV. Sony Pictures is among the advertisers already taking advantage.The 1bn views for ToonsTV means Rovio has averaged just under 143m monthly views for Angry Birds Toons since its launch. However, that appears to be accelerating: avideo published on Rovio's YouTube channelon 25 June claimed that the series had just hit 400m views, indicating an average of 200m monthly views since then.The show is also available through several video-on-demand services, connected TVs and 20 broadcasters.
Popular Science is closing commentson its articles. Citing "trolls and spambots", the 141-year-old American magazine has decided that an open forum at the bottom of articles "can be bad for science".The decision was "not made lightly" said online content director Suzanne LaBarre - nor, appropriately, without some supporting scientific evidence. Citing research from a study by University of Wisconsin-Madison professor Dominique Brossard, the magazine argues that exposure to bad comments can skew a reader's opinion of the post itself."Simply including an ad hominem attack in a reader comment was enough to make study participants think the downside of the reported technology was greater than they'd previously thought,"Brossard wrote in the New York Times."If you carry out those results to their logical end," says LaBarre, "commenters shape public opinion; public opinion shapes public policy; public policy shapes how and whether and what research gets funded – you start to see why we feel compelled to hit the "off" switch."If Popular Science's commenters were in proportion to that on most other large sites, they made up about 1% of those who read the piece. (The Guardian's commenters areabout 0.7% of readers on average, according to a statistic calculated by Martin Belam from public figures, with a very small number of commenters generating a large proportion - 20% in Belam's calculation - of input.) There's no data on how many people read comments on news sites, thoughNo comments? Comment followsThe reaction to Popular Science's announcement was mixed (though on their site, there was silence: comments weren't enabled on the post announcing comments were to be disabled). The Washington Post's Alexandra Petriarguedthat "it can't come soon enough", but Matthew Ingram of paidContentechoed the sentimentof many, asking "why not try to fix comments instead of killing them?"YouTube, we all tubeThat's what Google's trying to do. The company hasannounced a major change to the way comments on YouTube, widely seen asthe worst of the worst, are displayed.Now, comments will be tied to a commenter's Google+ profile - which they will have to have to be able to comment. When viewing comments, you'll will be able to see posts from those who your Google+ circles show as friends and acquaintances, or who are "popular personalities" near the top of the thread; by contrast those from random passersby are relegated further down the list.As already occurs, the video's creator will have a privileged place in the thread. But so too will "popular personalities" on YouTube.Huffington Post gets realBut hiding bad comments only solves part of the problem. For one thing, the person who moderates the comments still has to read all the abuse. It's preferable, surely, to focus on encouraging good comments?That's the approach the Huffington Post is taking, as it attempts to increase the accountability of its commenters.Starting this month, the site isasking new users to verify their identitywhen creating an account, in the hope that it will "reduce the number of drive-by or automated trolls.""Rather than participating in threads and promoting the best comments, our moderators are stuck policing the trolls with diminishing success," said Jimmy Soni, the group's Managing Editor.It's a weaker requirement than "real name" policies of the past, since the site is keen to point out that "many people are not in a professional or personal situation where attaching their name to a comment is feasible". But, argues Soni, "We are capable of doing far worse things to one another when we do not have to own up to the things we do." By requiring, if not real names, then at least stable pseudonyms, HuffPo hopes to inject some humanity back into comments.Moving above the lineGawker Media, the blog network which includes sites like Valleywag, Kotaku and io9 as well as gossip-blog Gawker itself, is taking an entirely different approach to comments, focusing on the carrot rather than the stick.Kinja is Gawker Media's new comment platform. But it's also the network's new blogging platform. Both commenters and bloggers write using it, and readers can follow a commenter's feed just as easily as they can their favourite blogger.On top of that, Nick Denton, Gawker's founder, views it as an effective tipline,telling Ingramthat:We want sources as well, we want them to be able to participate in these discussions. And the principle is that in order to be able to achieve the potential of the internet we need to harness the collective intelligence of the readership."Gawker's pitch to commenters isn't "behave or we'll block you", but "behave and we might promote you". And Denton has made good on that promise. Jalopnik, Gawker Media's site for car enthusiasts, hired its weekend editorbased on his active participation on Kinja.Old is the new newBut maybe the problem is something which doesn't need to be solved with technology at all.Boing Boinghad onsite comments since 2007, but this May went back to the future, moving all discussion on the site onto a dedicated forum,BBS.Comments no longer appear directly underneath stories, which could ameliorate Popular Science's fears that they would ruin discourse.Instead, readers are invited to discuss the story further on the subsite, where they can also make their own threads, link to their own work and,writes managing editor Rob Beschizza, "demolish serious culture without any help from us at all".Given how many look back fondly on the days when the internet was bulletin boards as far as the eye could see, maybe Boing Boing has the right idea.
BlackBerry has postponed the launch of its BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) messaging app on the iPhone and Android platforms, after a rogue version was released onto Google Play over the weekend.The postponement will hold up the official release for at least a week, Andrew Bocking, head of BBM at BlackBerry,said in a blogpost. He explained that the release of an "older, unreleased version" of BBM for Android which was posted on file-sharing sites and then onto Google Play interfered with the company's plans for launch of its official, finished app.The early version "resulted in volumes of data traffic orders of magnitude higher than normal for each active user and impacted the system in abnormal ways", Bocking wrote. But if the company had gone ahead and released the official version, "we could not block users of the unreleased version".The rogue version has now had more than a million downloads, Bocking said. Asearch on Google Play for "BBM"presently shows a number of fake apps, including one which claims to be from "Activision LLC" - but is not associated with the famous videogame publisher which runs the Warcraft franchise.One developer who offered a version of BBM on Google Play last week told the Guardian by email "Our purpose isn't bad, we are tying to make some money. Yes, this is illegal, so Google will delete this app 4-6 hours later." The app was deleted soon afterwards.Fake apps can make money by offering adverts. Some of the apps garner five-star ratings by forcing users to give them a five-star rating before the app will start working - thus pushing them up the rankings.For BlackBerry, which is struggling to open up potential new lines of revenue after the implosion of its handset business during the past quarter - leading to a writeoff of $1bn - the launch of BBM on other platforms is key to a future strategy built around services. BBM has been viewed as a potentially valuable element of the company, which hassigned a letter of intent for a leveraged buyoutby a Canadian finance group.Bocking said that the BlackBerry team is now trying to adjust the system to block the fake app when the official one goes live.A Google spokesperson said: "we remove infringing apps as soon as we become aware of them." Google'sDeveloper Program Policiestells developers not to use "impersonation or deceptive behaviour" - though the evidence from the store suggests this is repeatedly flouted.
The shadow home secretary, Yvette Cooper, is to pledge tough action against internet shopping fraud and other new forms of digital crime. Identifying online as the fastest-growing area of rising crime, she is expected to say on Wednesday that the police do not have the skills, equipment or structures to cope with the problem.The shadow home secretary is to commit a future Labour government to the creation of a specific new criminal offence of identity theft.She will also commit to setting up a new industry-backed body, FraudWatch, to counter fraudsters online, and a "Police First" programme, along the lines of Teach First, to attract the brightest technology graduates into policing for a few years.In her Labour conference speech, Cooper will also spell out plans to create a commissioner for domestic and sexual violence to drive improvements across the criminal justice system.The commissioner would be based on the successful model of the children's commissioner, who has a duty to champion the interests of children and has played a key role in ending the detention of children in immigration centres.Cooper is to tell the Labour conference that online crime is rising exponentially as organised crime gangs and networks move from the street to the internet."We live our lives online now‚ but criminals know that too," she will say. "It's a big risk for business – online trade should be a big area for economic growth. And it's a big cost for all of us. When the credit card companies and banks write off so much fraud we all lose out by higher charges."She is expected to say that it is time that home secretary Theresa May and the government move into the 21st century and do something about it. Cooper says much online crime is not being captured by official crime statistics but they are a key growth area for the police.She says Adrian Leppard, the City of London police chief, has said that 1,300 organised crime gangs have been identified by the national fraud intelligence bureau. They operate out of 25 different countries but predominantly target the UK.The official retail crime survey put the total cost of online crime for the retail sector alone at £205m in 2011/12.The online security company Norton  has estimated that 12.5 million people in Britain have been a victim of cybercrime in the past 12 months. A Which? survey found most were victims of online shopping scams and put the average amount lost at £1,500. Cooper says that the House of Commons library has established there is no specific criminal offence of identity theft on the statute book.The term "identity theft" includes a person's name and other personal information or financial details being stolen. But no offence is committed until it is used to commit fraud.The shadow home secretary says the lack of a specific criminal offence of identity theft leads to confusion about how to arrest or charge people with an offence, particularly if the crime involved a number of different people. While there are several other relevant criminal offences, such as obtaining services dishonestly, none apply specifically to stealing somebody's identity online.FraudWatch is intended as a body similar to the Internet Watch Foundation, which operates a hotline for the public to report child sex abuse online so the industry can block access. Peter Neyroud, a former Thames Valley chief constable who is on the IWF board, has been asked by Labour to work with industry to develop a similar approach to blocking  websites involved in scams.• This article was amended on 25 September 2013. The original version wrongly stated that Cooper planned to create a specific offence of identity fraud, rather than identity theft.
The video game industry is fragmenting. That's the familiar refrain. The irresistible rise of smartphones and tablets, together with the arrival of smart TVs and the introduction of Android boxes like Ouya, has broken apart the traditional industry forever. What place can there be for expensive specialist consoles in this fast-paced market of free-to-play casual gaming on multi-functional devices?And then the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One are announced to a cacophonous reception. There has been hype, excitement, rage and retraction – but what there certainly hasn't been is global apathy. In the midst of the chaos are the giant games publishers – Activision, Ubisoft, Electronic Arts – all trying to make sense of this shifting market place.Out of those, it is EA that has perhaps moved most gracefully with the tides of change. From 2005, the company has heavily invested in the digital sector with purchases of early mobile superstar Jamdat, and later, casual gaming specialists Playfish and Popcap. Add in the publisher's own PC digital games service, Origin, and 76% of its annual income now comes from digitally distributed games and services.But according to Frank Gibeau, president of EA Labels, the publisher is reveling in the excitement surrounding the Xbox One and PS4. "Going into E3, a lot of people were writing the story that the tablet killed the console," he says. "The year before that, they were writing that social gaming had killed the console. But the console is back and the pent up demand is being unleashed."Sony has announced a million pre-orders for the hardware – they didn't even sell through a million units of the PS3 in its first Christmas. We think that all the indicators and the buzz are there – the living room entertainment experience is still alive and well, and it seems live sports and interactive games are what will drive it. We're excited about these things coming together and creating a new growth kick for the consoles."EA will certainly have a huge role in the ongoing success of the consoles. Its Fifa, Madden and NBA sports titles will all be launch blockbusters, as will Battlefield 4 – indeed Fifa 14 is being given away to gamers who pre-order the Xbox One machine. The deal led some to wonder whether EA was siding with Microsoft in the coming console war."The way to think about it is, we make the bullets for the hardware war, but we want both competitors to be successful," says Gibeau. "Some have suggested that EA tilted toward Xbox One and that's actually not correct. We are agnostic, we're supporting both equally. What you're seeing are tactical marketing programmes that we did throughout all the last cycle – we did them with Sony, with Microsoft, it was a mix and match. That's the nature of first parties and third parties, whether that's EA, Activision or Ubisoft."As a veteran gamer, Gibeau sees an interesting new dynamic entering the business; the generation that grew up with interactive entertainment is now moving the experience from the bedroom to the front room, and involving the whole family in the process. Which means Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo have no foes to face."Guys like you and I who grew up with games are getting older, having families and then playing games with our children," he says. "That natural changeover is happening now – and that's why everyone wants to own the living room; gamers want to spend more time there, and not alone, but with their families."Sony and Microsoft are clearly thinking, we want to betheset-top box. Meanwhile, T-Mobile, Comcast, etc, all want the cable box to be it, and the television manufacturers want the smart TV to be it. Apple and Google approaching it, too. I think what's cool is that there's going to be a massive amount of R&amp;D and innovation going in to the living room entertainment experience. We don't see a wall that we can't get past, we just see a lot of new innovation and possibility."So how competitive are the new consoles in this space? "PS4 and Xbox One are the best living room integration solution," he says. "Smart TVs aren't there yet because they have to rely on streaming, they don't have high-end processors, and they don't have resident memory, you have to go to the cloud."The next-gen consoles are the Ferraris in this space – they do the job the best and the price points are competitive: they're cheaper than iPads. I have three kids, and if they could get to their Disney channel downloads through Xbox, the Xbox would be on all the time. It will be interesting to see how the fight takes place between smart TVs, dedicated consoles and then new solutions we haven't even thought of."As for EA's own plans on the next-gen machines, during the Gamescom event in Cologne last month, Gibeau told several reporters, that the company has six unannounced new IPs in production. "Yeah, but they might notallmake it to market," he clarifies. "The trick is to get the right talent together to create a team that can really go after it. That's where you spend most of your time."For him, the current priority is getting the preparations right. "The first trick is to move to a development environment where there is a lot of leverage and efficiency," he says. "This is why we invested in the Ignite and Frostbite development engines. In the last console transition, we were fighting the technology; ultimately in the mid-point, we had something in the region of 15 to 18 different development environments, which is just inefficient. If you have flexible engines, you can do a lot more with them."Last generation, our development costs went up 30%, this time we're running flat and it's because of two things. The first is the engine development, we cut a lot of costs out by focusing on Frostbite and Ignite. The second piece is we've adopted a smaller portfolio. We were shipping 40-60 games a year, now we're in the teens. We want a fewer, bigger strategy, but within that there's still plenty of room for new IP. It's more important to get one great idea out there in a year than launch three that may not work. we're looking at the first three years of this console transition as an opportunity to launch some new titles. We have six we haven't really talked about, we've announced Titanfall, UFC, Mirror's Edge, and we have the Star Wars relationship with Battlefront. That's four business that are new to EA …"We chat about the games we like – almost inevitably Minecraft comes up. Gibeau has apparently been playing it with his kids, and dealing with the arguments that explode when one destroys another's building project. I also ask, half-jokingly, half-serious, if EA would consider entering the toy-crossover market, going up against Activision's Skylanders or Disney Infinity. There's surely room for interactive Dragon Age, Mass Effect or Plants vs Zombies figurines?Gibeau laughs. "Disney had a clear opportunity because they had a diverse IP portfolio so they could figure it out, and Activision was brilliant in terms of hitting it first," he says. "I don't want to be third into the action figure and portal market."We have other ways to grow our business. We are open to innovative ideas."
Nintendo's Game Boy, DS and 3DS devices gave it a long run as the king of handheld gaming. In 2013, though, its crown is slipping in the face of competition from games on smartphones and tablets.A recentreport from research firms IDC and App Annieestimates that games for devices running Apple's iOS and Google's Android software are making four times the revenues of games for Nintendo and Sony's handheld devices combined.Mobile gaming is booming. Research firm comScore estimates that 20m people in the UK play mobile games every month, while 6.2m play them every day. Another analyst, IHS Screen Digest, expects Brits to spend nearly £300m on mobile games this year.Some of the largest traditional games publishers are capitalising on this growth. In its last financial quarter, Electronic Arts – owner of franchises including The Sims and FIFA – made £7.7m from games on Sony handhelds, and £5.8m from those on Nintendo devices. In the same quarter,EA's mobile games revenues were $113m (£72.6m)."Apple was EA's biggest retail partner measured by sales," said chief operating officer Peter Moore in the company's earnings call with analysts in July. "That is a first."The current strength of mobile gaming is about more than big publishers like EA. The market is being driven as much by independent developers who, if they strike it lucky on Apple and Google's app stores, can rapidly overtake even the largest rivals.Finnish developer Supercell, for example, made £114.8m of revenues in the first quarter of 2013 from just two games on iOS: Hay Day and Clash of Clans. A subsequent £83.4m funding round valued the company at nearly £500m."Our growth speaks a lot about the platform that we're on, and how quickly games can spread organically," Ilkka Paananen, Supercell's chief executive,told The Guardian recently.Another developer, Japanese firm GungHo Online,reported £286m of revenues in the second quarter of this year, with the majority of its sales coming from a single mobile game, Puzzle &amp; Dragons. The publicly-listed company's market cap overtook Nintendo's in May."This is a market which is new, and which is at the beginning of its creative journey, not the end. But it's already winning," says Nicholas Lovell, of games industry consultancy Gamesbrief."What's more, it's making so much more money than the other platforms, creativity will be drawn towards mobile. You don't have to know the right people in order to get through the door: anyone can experiment, and publish their game."Clash of Clans helped mobile developer Supercell make £114.8m in the first quarter of 2013UK games industry body TIGA surveyed developers in April 2013, and found that 37% of British games studios were primarily focused on mobile, up from 19% in 2010. For studios founded in 2011 and 2012, the percentage rose to 53%."It's not a brain drain away from the [traditional] industry. I'd argue that if these developers weren't making mobile games, they wouldn't be making games full stop. It's more of an expansion of the market," says Dr Richard Wilson, TIGA's chief executive."Whilst yes, there is a threat to Sony's and Nintendo's handheld business, the rise of mobile – Android and iOS games – can also be seen as a new opportunity for new developers, something that overall makes the market bigger."Mobile gaming has its controversies, particularly around the dominance of "free-to-play" games that are free to download and play, but which charge for virtual items and currency using in-app purchases.Critics often claim that this business model encourages developers to think less about the art of gameplay than the science of monetisation, with gameplay geared towards pushing players to spend money as often as possible."Clearly there are practices in free-to-play games now that are unsustainable and don't do the industry any favours, but there is a new wave of companies coming who are focused on creating truly amazing entertainment." said Kristian Segerstrale, former executive vice president of digital games at EA who now sits on Supercell's board,in a recent Guardian interview.Paananen agreed. "Games are still a form of art, not a form of science. You can't design fun on a spreadsheet. And if you want to make an industry for the long-term, if you can't create fun games, there's no future."Others worry about the gold-rush mentality to the hundreds of new development studios setting their sights on being the next Supercell or GungHo."I do worry for a lot of mobile developers: you wonder how they're making anything back from it at all," says Miles Jacobsen, studio director at Sports Interactive, whose last Football Manager Handheld game sold more than 500,000 copies on iOS alone."There are now so many studios starting up on a weekly basis thinking they're going to be instantly successful. But less than 1% of games do well enough for you to make a career out of it on the platform, and if you're going free-to-play, the odds are even smaller."Sony in particular is trying to win more of these developers back to its PS Vita and upcoming PlayStation 4 console. The company devoted a significant section of its press conference at August's Gamescom trade show to its plans to bring more indie studios to the PlayStation platform.Since then, Sony has unveiled a new lighter version of the Vita handheld –PS Vita 2000– aimed at casual users, which will go on sale in Japan on 10 October. It is also using the guts of Vita for a new microconsole,PlayStation Vita TV, which will play handheld games on a TV screen.Nintendo, meanwhile, is taking the 3D out of its 3DS with the upcominglaunch of its 2DS handheldon 12 October. It ditches the 3D screen, is cheaper at £110, and is a flat, open-faced gadget rather than a clamshell device. Neither company is calling it quits just yet, then."Developers just want to be able to create great games, and see a fair return for doing so. If Sony and Nintendo can offer them a device, toolset and a marketplace with which to do that, then yes, absolutely they can increase the number of developers making games for their platforms," says Wilson.Nintendo 2DS ditches the 3D screen and clamshell designWhile Nintendo has stuck to its policy of only releasing games for its own devices, Sony – which makes its own range of smartphones and tablets – has extended the PlayStation brand to these and other Android devices.It also partnered with Coca-Cola to launch an iOS and Android app –PlayStation All-Stars Island– with mini-games based on franchises including Uncharted and LittleBigPlanet. The third console giant, Microsoft, has rolled its Xbox brand onto its Windows Phone smartphones and Windows 8 tablets.Joining the mobile games revolution is a viable option, rather than trying to beat it. The competition from mobile games can be constructively disruptive for the traditional industry, rather than merely destructive.And for developers? Excitement about the creative potential of smartphones and tablets alongside traditional handhelds is common, but the new business models involved elicit enthusiasm and fear in equal measure."There has never been more scope for creativity in handheld gaming," says Dr Jo Twist, chief executive of industry body UKIE. "We've already seen how iOS and Android platforms have also opened up games to a whole new audience, who never previously saw themselves as gamers, and this can again only benefit the wider industry."The market is fluid, too. New devices are emerging to blur the boundaries between mobile and handheld gaming even more.Nvidia's Shield, for example, is an Android-powered handheld selling for $299 in the US and Canada, with features including the ability to stream PC games."We've seen a lot of developers shift their focus from traditional console platforms to mobile platforms and/or free to play. AAA console games cost tens of millions of dollars to develop, and most developers don't have the resources to compete," says Nvidia's vice president of game content and technology Ashutosh Rege."Mobile platforms and free to play on PC enable more developers to compete. In the long run, we believe that open-platforms like the PC and Android will attract more developers. When virtually every kid has a mobile device and every adult has a PC, developers will target those audiences."Meanwhile, Apple's new iPhone 5s is the company's most powerful gaming device yet, with the company touting its 64-bit A7 processor as a key driver for the next generation of mobile games –Infinity Blade IIIwas held up as the first example at the handset's launch event.That, plus Apple's new specs for"MFi" controller accessoriesfor iOS devices, and its existing AirPlay technology and Apple TV set-top box, suggests the debate will soon move beyond whether smartphones and tablets are challenging dedicated gaming handhelds.In five years' time – and quite possibly sooner – these devices could be legitimate challengers to PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in the living room. In 2013, there's a huge gulf betweenGrand Theft Auto Von console and the decade-old Grand Theft Auto: Vice City that iOS and Android devices can run.But by the time GTA VI rolls into town, the barricades between mobile and console gaming – let alone mobile and handhelds – may be falling down.
Microsoft refreshed its Surface tablet computers this week, giving them longer battery life and better comfort on laps as the software giant continues its transformation into a devices and services company.The company said it tried to address many shortcomings of the first-generation Surface models, sales of which have been slow. Microsoft needs to boost its tablet business to make up for sales declines in traditional desktop and laptop computers. IDC is forecasting a nearly 10% decline in PC shipments this year. The research firm also said tablets will outsell traditional PCs in the last three months of the year.The new tablet models come with a better built-in kickstand with two positions rather than one, so they can rest more firmly on users' laps. Microsoft is also making a docking station and a wireless mouse for business customers who need the mobility of tablets but also want the traditional ways of using computers while in the office.The first versions of Surface - the ARM-based RT and Intel-based Pro - were poor sellers for Microsoft, which had limited distribution and limited traction, especially after it released the RT version first, to subdued buyer interest. In July it took a$900m writeoff against unsold stock, believed to be almost entirely of Surface RTs."We've definitely gotten a year smarter," Brian Hall, general manager of sales and marketing for Surface, said in an interview.Designed for changeThe redesigned Surface tablets come at a time of transition for Microsoft. Earlier this month, Microsoft struck a deal to acquire Nokia's phone and services business for $7.2bn. The company is also searching for a new chief executive to replace Steve Ballmer, who announced last month that he plans to retire within the next year.The Surface Pro 2 is targeted at professionals who want the full power of a laptop in a tablet-style device. With a starting price of $899, the Pro 2 uses a full version of the upcoming Windows 8.1, meaning it can run any program written for Windows desktops and laptops.The Pro 2 promises 75% more battery life than the debut Pro model, which came out in February. Microsoft, which did not specify the number of hours of expected use, said the improvement comes partly from the use of Intel's Haswell chip, which uses less energy. There's also an optional Power Cover accessory that extends battery life even further.A cheaper model, Surface 2, offers a 25% improvement in battery life, which means it can get up to 10 hours of use. It also has a better screen compared with last October's Surface RT. It uses Windows RT 8.1, meaning it can run only apps specifically designed for it. Microsoft said it now has 100,000 apps, or 10 times what was available last year.Like other RT tablets, Microsoft is including a version of its Office software for free with the Surface 2. But now, the package will have the Outlook email and calendar program, not just Word, Excel and PowerPoint.Microsoft is selling the Surface 2 starting at $449 and will continue to offer last year's Surface RT for $349. UK prices have not been announced.Uncertain receptionAnalysts at the research company Forrester were equivocal about its prospects. "The new Surface products will offer workers and consumers an incrementally improved user experience, particularly when combined with the forthcoming release of Windows 8.1 on 18 October," said principal analyst JP Gownder. "But whether Microsoft can turn these second-generation products into a mass market success for enterprise customers, workers, and consumers will depend on its ability to quickly upgrade its branding and go-to-market strategies."The Surface 2 and the Surface Pro 2 will come with 200GB of free online storage through SkyDrive for two years, as well as free calls and Wi-Fi hotspots through Skype for a year. The new tablets will go on sale on 22 October, a few days after Microsoft releases its 8.1 update to its Windows 8 operating system on 17 October. The screen on both new models remains at 10.6in (26.9cm), measured diagonally.Keyboard covers will cost extra: $120 for a Touch Cover 2, which has working, printed keyboard on the inside surface but whose keys don't move when pushed, and $130 for Type Cover 2, which have keys that move. A new Power Cover with a built-in spare battery will cost about $200 when it comes out early next year.A $200 docking station also will come out early next year and will work only with Pro models, including the older one already out. Hall said Microsoft chose not to make the Pro 2 smaller so that accessories would be compatible.Now watch thisIn an interview, Hall said the company will fine-tune its marketing strategy by showing specific things that the Surface can do in ads. He said last year's ads - whichshowed dancers clicking the Surface's keyboard on and off and swapping them around across tables- tried to create an energetic feeling, but failed to show consumers what the tablets did.Hall also said Microsoft won't try to compete directly with Apple's popular iPad. Microsoft is positioning the Surface as ideal for tasks people normally tackle on laptops, such as creating documents and editing movies. That's also the reason the Redmond, Washington, company opted not to make models with smaller 7in screens, Hall said, as those tend to be used more for entertainment and content consumption.The 7in and 8in tablet sector is however expected to make up more than half of tablet sales this year, accounting for 136m sales against 118m for 9-11in devices, according to NPD DisplaySearch.Microsoft's Surface RT and Pro are classed as tablets by the major research firms because they do not have a permanently attached keyboard.Desppite Hall's remarks about not competing directly with the iPad, the online adverts for the Surface still include onecomparing it directly to an iPad. Microsoft has also been running a trade-in program where it offers money for iPads for buyers of Surfaces. It has not released any figures on how many have taken advantage of the scheme."We have to get people to think of it as a little different (from) an iPad," he said. "iPads are great, but these are a different device. ... We're building a product for a different set of people."
More than half the UK&apos;s public Wi-Fi services allow access to pornography and adult content with no age verification, researchers have found.One third of the UK&apos;s cafes and restaurants have no safety filters to prevent children viewing inappropriate content, according to research by security firm AdaptiveMobile, with one in five failing to restrict customer access to online sex dating sites such as AdultFriendFinder.com.The research examined 179 locations across Birmingham, Manchester and London, including cafes, restaurants, shops, hotels and public spaces, and found that 51% of free Wi-Fi hotspots allowed unfiltered access to adult content.One in three UK cafes and restaurants, for instance, have no filtering in place to protect children and prevent their access to pornography, while a further 20% failed to restrict customer access to online sex dating sites, such as AdultFriendFinder.com.&quot;For every parent across the UK this report will come as an unwelcome surprise,” says Graeme Coffey, vice-president of product strategy and business development at AdaptiveMobile.Knives, swords and cocaineMore than half of cafes and restaurants in the UK do not filter access to online stores selling things like knives and swords, while 80% provide free access to drug-related content like ILoveCocaine.com.“In the last two years there have been two convergent trends: a big increase in public wifi or ‘hospitality Wi-Fi’, and greater access to smartphones, gaming consoles and tablets with a wifi capability, the kind of device a child could have,&quot; said Coffey.“Whilst hotels are predominantly private places, where a ‘no filtering’ policy may be appropriate, hotel lobbies, cafés and restaurants are more public and the content policy should reflect this. It is certainly neither a simple nor a ‘one size fits all’ matter.&quot;Hotels scored the worst for filtering of adult content compared to cafes, restaurants, retailers and public spaces, with only one in four blocking access to pornography, and only one in 10 filtering access to online weapons shops.&quot;Most people will instinctively block adult content when it comes to filtering, but what these results show is that we should also be looking at content related to drugs and violence which are just as harmful but frequently overlooked,” Coffey said.Publicly owned spaces have better filters“Having filters in public spaces is just as important as other restrictions such as the smoking ban and modesty covers on adult magazines,” said Andy Phippen, professor of social responsibility in IT at the Plymouth business school. &quot;[But] simply having a filter doesn&apos;t necessarily mean everything is protected.&quot;Of all the public Wi-Fi hotspots tested across the UK, government-owned property and public places such as train stations scored the highest at filtering out adult content.Nine in ten government sites restricted access to pornography, but one third of government sites still allowed full access to online weapons stores.• Bury council launchedfree public Wi-Fifor poorer families in July, while theGlastonbury festival used tractor-powered Wi-Fi this year.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Thief 4 producer details how DualShock 4 will be used on PS4, how AI component and stealth are intertwined | VG247Thief 4 producer producer Stephane Roy has been talking about the PS4 and its new controller:"For the DualShock 4, we use the light bar to reflect the light gem in the in-game UI, which indicates if Garrett is in the shadows or not," said Roy. "It creates a nice feeling when you play in the dark to see it illuminate or darken as you move through the environment. Additionally, the touch pad allows for better menu navigation and makes for a more intuitive way to perform various actions, like navigating the map or selecting weapons."What impressed us were not only the new features of the DualShock 4, but how the existing ones have been improved. The best example of that is the motion control, which is way more precise than before. You can use it to adjust your aiming with the bow and the level of accuracy we get with it is really impressive."You can read the whole interview onthe PlayStation Blog.D4 looks like the first game to be truly better with Kinect | Eurogamer.netEurogamer has seen the new game from Hidetaka "Swery" Suehiro, the creator of cult classic Deadly Premonition, and it sounds rather astonishing:You play as David Young, a man blessed with the ability to travel through time via his interaction with Mementos, a skill that's central to your unravelling of the mystery surrounding the death of Young's girlfriend. The episode we sit in on takes place on a passenger plane mid-flight, and it's told as a graphic adventure game that's probably best described as Heavy Rain played for laughs.Access's contemporary interpretation of the graphic adventure is at once a little more straight than Quantic Dream's and, thanks to Kinect, a lot more offbeat. Using Kinect allows you to survey scenes with your hand replacing the traditional mouse pointer, where you can hold and grab items as well as shift your view by swiping across. You can also interact with objects too - which in this demonstration largely means shoving crew staff and passengers - and often there'll be a segue into a Heavy Rain-like gesture lent a little tactility with Kinect. Bring Young's face down to a sink and you'll have to bring both hands up to splash it with water, an act that replenishes the stamina you rely on in order to carry out in-game actions.From crisis to contender – Microsoft on Xbox One policy reversals and the power of the crowd | Edge OnlinePhil Harrison, corporate VP of Microsoft's interactive entertainment division, is chatting to the press a lot at the moment. This time he has spoken to Edge after the magazine declared PS4 the winner in the next-gen hype war. He says things are looking brighter:"We are winning the games message," he tells us. "We had over 100 awards coming out of E3 for games on our platform. That is more than twice as many awards as any other platform. So the media recognised our games on Xbox One as being the best lineup – including Titanfall, which is the most awarded game in the history of E3, coming to Xbox One and to Xbox 360."Game devs ditching mobile in favor of PC, console? | GamesIndustry InternationalInteresting industry piece on the diaspora of smaller developers away from the promised land of smartphone development:"I speak with lots of mobile devs regularly and most are moving away or at least thinking of it, either to other platforms or out of the trade completely," Paul Johnson, managing director and co-founder of Rubicon, told us. "Having to give your game away for 69 cents a throw (after Apple's and Google's cut) and then competing with 1000 new apps each day is hardly a draw for anybody. We've reached a point now where even those slow on the uptake have realized the goldrush is over. It's actually been over for a few years."SuperHot breaks Steam Greenlight record | CVG UKKeep your eye on this:SuperHot, an idiosyncratic first-person shooter where time only progresses when the player moves, has broken the record for fastest accepted game on Steam Greenlight.The game, built by an indie outfit based in the Polish city of Łódź, is now guaranteed to be published on Valve's Steam platform when development has finished. The game first emerged on Steam Greenlight on September 13 and managed to attain enough user votes five days later.Here's a trailer:Sort of Braid meets Mirror's Edge, Portal and Quake.I Need This Haunting Game About a Runaway Slave to Get Finished | KotakuMore incoming indie genius, this time a scrolling adventure namedThralled, based around an escaped slave:The mechanics in Thralled are dead simple. You run forward, manipulate obstacles in the environment and jump over gaps towards a life that main character Isaura can steer on her own. But to do any of that, the player needs to place her squalling infant on the ground so her hands can be free to perform certain actions. The minute you put Isaura's baby down, a darker ghostly version of the main character starts closing in on the child. You have to stop whatever you're doing and run back to the baby or lose it forever.There's a rather beautiful trailer here:More news on this as it comes in.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCase troubles hinder HTC phone sales, darken Q3 outlook: sources &gt;&gt; ReutersHTC Corp is facing supply constraints on its latest smartphone, sources familiar with the matter said, piling pressure on already disappointing sales and increasing the likelihood the firm will post its first net loss this quarter.The problems with the HTC One Mini, launched in mid-July, come partly from a casing shortage arising from design difficulties, one of the sources said.Another source said consumer and telecom demand for the One Mini could not be met at the moment, even though analysts estimate that the company plans to ship only around 200,000 of the devices each month.Asymco's Law: a handset company that falls into loss will end up bought, closed or mergedwithin 2.5 years of its first loss. Prepare to start your clocks.HTC developing 'alternative plans' after patent case loss to Nokia &gt;&gt; FOCUS TAIWANTaiwan's HTC Corp. said Tuesday after losing the first round of a patent dispute with Finnish handset vendor Nokia Oyj that it is working on alternative plans to minimize the case's potential impact on its business.In a notice published Monday, Judge Thomas Pender of the United States International Trade Commission (ITC) said HTC had infringed two of the three wireless patents-in-suit claimed by Nokia.Nokia, which filed the complaint in May 2012, had asked the U.S. trade agency to impose a sales ban on certain HTC Android-based phones and tablets. A final ruling is scheduled for Jan. 23 next year after the judge's findings are reviewed by the six-member panel.Not standards-essential patents, so Nokia could get a trade ban - or HTC could figure out workarounds.Under the covers: The clever engineering that went into the new Surfaces | CITEworldMary Branscombe:What's so clever about the new second-generation Surface devices, which Microsoft unveiled yesterday?For a start, although the cases look very similar, this isn't just Haswell slapped into the same motherboard of the Surface Pro - although that might have been faster to bring to market. This is a completely redesigned motherboard, tuned to reduce power consumption as much as possible.Lots and lots more detail inside.Microsoft new Surface shipments to reach 3 million units in 2014, sources estimate &gt;&gt; DigitimesMicrosoft has unveiled its second-generation Surface tablets, but sources from the upstream supply chain estimate the devices' sales will reach only three million units in 2014, accounting for 1.15% of the global tablet shipments.Microsoft has released its Surface 2 and Surface Pro 2.Microsoft sold about 900,000 Surface tablets in the first quarter of 2013 and 300,000 in the second, totaling 1.2m units in the first half, according to the sources citing figures from IDC.The sources pointed out that the first-generation Surface's poor sales are mainly due to their high prices although their hardware specifications and industrial design are competitive.Seems very low. Perhaps it's moving more to a just-in-time model?Microsoft silent on its reasons for discontinuing original Surface Pro &gt;&gt; NeowinEven with the high initial demand for the first Surface Pro, Microsoft has decided to stop selling the tablet, though it continues to sell the almost year old Surface RT for a lower price. We asked Microsoft to give us a reason why they have suddenly discontinued the sale of the original Surface Pro, even at a lower price, and received this statement from a Microsoft spokesperson:When Surface Pro 2 becomes available, Surface Pro will no longer be available for purchase from Microsoft or its retail partners. Our goal is to help as many customers as possible experience all the benefits Surface has to offer. Starting at $349 for Surface RT 32GB, it's extremely easy to join the Surface family.Yes, that statement does not really offer a specific reason why the Surface Pro is no longer being sold. We were told that's the only comment that Microsoft will give officially on this subject.Could it be that it's got tons of Surface RT v1 left over and would like to keep selling them, having written their value down to zero in a $900m writeoff last quarter?Why we're shutting off our comments &gt;&gt; Popular ScienceSuzanne LaBarre:even a fractious minority wields enough power to skew a reader's perception of a story, recent research suggests. In one study led by University of Wisconsin-Madison professor Dominique Brossard, 1,183 Americans read a fake blog post on nanotechnology and revealed in survey questions how they felt about the subject (are they wary of the benefits or supportive?). Then, through a randomly assigned condition, they read either epithet- and insult-laden comments ("If you don't see the benefits of using nanotechnology in these kinds of products, you're an idiot" ) or civil comments. The results, as Brossard and coauthor Dietram A. Scheufele wrote in a New York Times op-ed: "Uncivil comments not only polarized readers, but they often changed a participant's interpretation of the news story itself."Remarkable.Be wary of the dubious 'iMessage chat' Android app | Macworldthere are a few good reasons to stay away from this iMessage imitator. First, it asks for your Apple ID, which is attached to your personal and payment information. And asJay Freeman (a.k.a. 'saurik' of Cydia fame) notes, all of the app data gets processed through the developer's server in China before connecting to Apple. This apparently prevents Apple from blocking the app, but it also raises security concerns about what happens to your data and login details.Steve Troughton-Smith alsopoints outthat the app has the ability to download and install additional software in the background. Add the fact that the developerhasn't created any other apps, and you have every reason to be suspicious of this Android version of iMessage.Is it time for Google to start policing trademark violation on Google Play? It seems like it would be a good way to protect its users. Considering that more than a million have downloaded fake BlackBerry Messenger apps, it could make a difference.Update:Pulled from Google Play, after 13 days, because it "violated policies".TouchID defeated: what does it mean? &gt;&gt; ErratasecRobert Graham:Many people claim this hack is "too much trouble". This is profoundly wrong. Just because it's too much trouble for you doesn't mean it's too much trouble for a private investigator hired by your former husband. Or the neighbour's kid. Or an FBI agent.…At the same time, it doesn't mean Touch ID is completely useless. Half the population doesn't lock their phone at all because it's too much trouble entering a 4 digit PIN every time they want to use it. If any of them choose to use Touch ID security instead of no security, then it's a win for security.There are also some ways around the hack. Use your ring finger or pinky finger instead. You don't use these fingers to navigate your phone, so these prints won't be on your phone. These are also the most difficult and unlikely prints to retrieve from other surfaces, like beer glasses.Using your ring finger isn't possible unless the phone is flat; however you can just about grasp it and manipulate your little finger over the button. Not ideal, though.CEE tablet market continues to rocket, driven by low-cost devices &gt;&gt; IDCThe tablet market in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) continues to surge, growing 175.6% year on year in the second quarter of 2013, according to the latest results from International Data Corporation (IDC). Tablet shipments totaled 3.6m units in 2Q13, making the CEE region among the strongest growing markets worldwide. The ongoing market expansion has been increasingly fueled by low-cost Android devices.Android tablets captured 84% of the total CEE tablet market in 2Q13, accounting for over 3m shipments. The share of iOS-based devices decreased by 9.2 percentage points year on year, while shipments of Windows and Windows RT devices increased sharply year on year, although this was largely due to a low base in the previous quarter, which still gave these devices less than 3% of the tablet market in 2Q13.What companies should do if they're worried about the iPhone fingerprint hack &gt;&gt; CITEworldRyan Faas:But the biggest point about Touch ID in the enterprise organisations is this: It can be disabled [as a login option] across all iOS devices in your organisation with the click of a button usingany MDM solution that supports iOS 7.Yeah, but where are the headlines in that?Why 2013 Is RIM's BlackBerry Year &gt;&gt; ComputerworldRob Enderle, in December 2012:As we look ahead to 2013, it's becoming increasingly clear that the new year provides an unprecedented opportunity for Research in Motion to make a huge comeback.This is largely because the market is dominated by two platforms: Android, which is seen as an unsecure malware magnet, and iOS, which comes from a firm that has never learned to spell "IT." In fact, Apple's biggest failures were Lisa and the Apple Server, both created on Steve Jobs' watch (Lisa was even his product, initially) and both targeted at the IT market.The Lisa was released in 1982. There's no record of a product called "Apple Server". And you know about the "huge comeback". Rob Enderle is president and principal analyst of the Enderle Group.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
The  recent history of tech innovation is littered with gadgets that seemed a great idea – on paper, at least.Apple NewtonLaunched1993Killed offFebruary 1998Why?An A5-sized "personal digital assistant" with handwriting recognition, the Newton didn't assist much and couldn't read writing well. It was the brainchild of John Sculley, the man who fired Steve Jobs. One of Jobs' first acts on returning to Apple was to kill off the device.Palm PreMultimedia smartphoneLaunchedJune 2009Killed offLate 2010Why?The Pre had everything – wireless charging, multitasking, touchscreen, dinky size – except sales. Apple threatened to sue over its multitouch screen; the company struggled, and eventually was bought by HP. The innovation of its multitasking interface lives on … in Apple's recently launched iOS 7.Microsoft KinSocial networking mobileLaunched6 May 2010Killed off30 June 2010Why?Microsoft spent $1bn and 18 months after its purchase of the Danger phone company producing the Kin – intended to be a "social phone". It sold a total of 8,810 units; the phones were slow, hard to use, and cost more than an iPhone.HP TouchpadLaunched1 July 2011Killed off18 August 2011Why?HP reckoned Apple's iPad lit the way to corporate profits. The 10in Touchpad was nice, but no cheaper, and corporate clients just weren't interested – and there were no apps. HP sold remaining stock for $99; that helped more than 900,000 sell in all, proving that pricing works. The cost for HP was a $3.3bn writedown.BlackBerry PlayBookLaunchedApril 2011Killed offJune 2013Why?Like HP, BlackBerry also thought the iPad was a nice idea, but lacked corporate appeal. Its 7in Playbook could run Flash, but had no useful apps – nor did it even have BlackBerry's famed corporate email in its first release. In total, fewer than 2.5m units sold; total writedowns are $500m.
Q: If BlackBerry is boughtby Fairfax Holdingsor broken up, will my phone still work?A: The newest BB10 phones will carry on working even if BlackBerry kills its handset business, but extra features such as app store BlackBerry World may not. Older BlackBerry devices (ie not the Z10, Q10, Q5 or Q30) send data for email, web browsing and BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) as well as mapping and some apps,  through the company's servers. Whether post-buyout BlackBerry will keep the servers running isn't clear. Without them, it would be like thecalamitous three-day service outage of October 2011– permanently. BlackBerry says: "It remains our top priority to continue serving all our customers."Q: Will BBM still work?A: BlackBerry plans to release its messenger app for iPhone and Android soon. Fairfax is expected to continue operations for BBM's 60 million users, a potential revenue stream. BlackBerry says: "BBM remains one of our key areas of focus."Q: Who'll fix my faulty BlackBerry?A: The company's legal liabilities, including those to customers in the form of warranties, will remain intact.As of its 2013 annual report, RIM had accrued $318m (£199m) of warranty liabilities. BlackBerry says: "Contact the original point of purchase or, failing that, our customer support team."Q: What should BlackBerry-using businesses and organisations do?A: Consider alternatives. BlackBerry says: "We are clearly focusing resources on our core enterprise [large-scale] business, where we continue to increase [new] BES 10 installations, and the consumers who value privacy and productivity above all else."Q: If not BlackBerry, what should I buy next?A: Maybe now is the time to learn to type with a touchscreen keyboard. Apart from the Q10, smartphones with keyboards are as rare as hen's teeth.
BlackBerry is changing fast: not so long ago, it was a go-go smartphone firm with two bosses and two private jets. Now, following the collapse in sales, there is just one boss and this week it emerged that his (new and bigger) jet will soon be sold. Further down the food chain, however, the changes have been more painful. Come next summer, the firm will employ 9,500 fewer full-time staff than it did in 2012.But by then, Canada's biggest technology group may no longer exist in its current form. Prem Watsa, the hedge fund boss with an appetite for distressed assets,  is ready to spend $4.7bn taking BlackBerry private. The man billed as Canada's answer to Warren Buffett is preparing to take a gamble on the technology industry's biggest basket case.Opinion is divided on whether Watsa's hedge fund and insurance group, Fairfax, will actually succeed in raising the required funds. But if BlackBerry is privately acquired, there are those who believe the time has come for it to stop making its email phones completely, and  focus instead on less competitive fields."It is very difficult to see how BlackBerry's devices business is sustainable in the long term," says Ben Wood, chief of research at CCS Insight. "A BlackBerry is a phenomenal phone for email but the world has moved around them."In the last quarter, it has been marketing improved phones. But it has been aiming at a largely uninterested public and the effort put a $500m dent in BlackBerry's kitty. It now has cash reserves of just $2.6bn to see it through the tough times ahead, which at the current rate of spending will not last long."We estimate that without another major round of layoffs, BlackBerry may run out of cash in 12 to 24 months," Mark Sue, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, predicted. He warned up to 3,000 more jobs may need to go "to right-size the organisation".If Watsa's offer materialises, investors are being urged to accept it. "It's still a long shot that new owners can turn the company around," said Kris Thompson at National Bank in Montreal. "Shareholders should take the money and run."Apple and Samsung are too far ahead. Nokia is bailing, selling its phones arm to Microsoft. Sony is still trying, with some success, to kindle interest in its handsets. But these are all multinationals whose activities range from making fridges and televisions (Samsung) to Hollywood studios (Sony), to one of the biggest digital shopfronts for music and TV series (Apple's iTunes).Like the troubled Taiwanese specialist HTC, BlackBerry no longer has the cash needed to give it a fighting chance in the smartphone world war. But if it pulls out, there are at least three other ways it could generate value.The most achievable, if least exciting, would be selling and managing secure mobile phone servers to companies and government agencies. The new generation of BB10 servers can be used to send encrypted emails, over BlackBerry's own secure network, to a whole range of phones including Apple and Android devices. In a world where many people now use their personal phones for work, these servers solve a headache.Microsoft is pushing into this space, and IBM, alongside smaller groups like Citrix, but BlackBerry has a head start. It claims 90% of America's top 500 companies already use its technology, and 25,000 customers are currently on its new generation enterprise servers.Watsa has not set out his plans in detail, but on Monday night he indicated the firm's future lay with business customers, saying the focus would be "on delivering superior and secure enterprise solutions to BlackBerry customers around the world."If Fairfax decides to close the handset business, it could afford to auction much of BlackBerry's intellectual property, most recently valued in company accounts at $3.4bn. The true worth is disputed, with Bernstein Research putting the total at between $800m and $1.5bn, with a discount for redundant 2G technologies.But there is value in the inventions of BlackBerry's founder, Mike Lazaridis, and the portfolio was boosted in 2011 when BlackBerry joined a consortium to buy up patents once owned by telecoms equipment firm Nortel. It spent $775m picking the bones of the last big Canadian technology group to fall on hard times.Then there is BlackBerry's Messenger service, to which an estimated 60 million active users devote an average of 90 minutes a day. Their numbers may be thinning, but those who remain make full use of the grapevine that was once so dominant that politicians blamed it for sparking the London riots. BBM carries 10 billion messages each day.WhatsApp, which offers a similar free service via a smartphone application, has 300m active users, and is considered a likely candidate for an Instagram-style billion dollar takeover. BBM could be worth a similar sum if spun off to shareholders or sold."This is a break up story," says Benedict Evans, mobile expert at Enders Analysis. "There is nothing a new owner is going to do to make people start buying BB10 devices in enough volume to be viable. They should have built on top of Android two years ago."BB10 was in fact built on QNX, software produced by a company BlackBerry acquired for the purpose. Some say its future lies with QNX. The technology is already used in cars, medical machinery and even military drones and air traffic control towers. BlackBerry may no longer be able to afford the company jet, and its future in mobile phones hangs in the balance, but it could live on in the skies.• This article was amended on Wednesday 25 September 2013. HTC is Taiwanese, not South Korean.
The chairman of Nokia has admitted that he accidentally misled the public and Finland's prime minister over an €18.8m (£15.9m) payoff to former chief executive Stephen Elop triggered by the sale of the mobile phone business to Microsoft.Risto Siilasmaa, Nokia's chairman, had tried to calm growing national anger at the massive payoff by saying that the terms were "substantially similar to those of former Nokia CEOs". But he was forced to admit on Tuesday that the Canadian will pocket €14.6m more than the previous Nokia boss, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, collected when he was fired three years ago.Siilasmaa told Finnish news siteHelsingin Sanomatthat an "accident" during the formulation of the contract meant that Elop would collect the huge sum. "This is a very unfortunate thing about the case, which, moreover, raises a lot of emotions," Siilasmaa said, according to a translation of the Helsingin Sanomat article. Nokia declined to comment further last night.Filings with the US regulator the Securities and Exchange Commission reveal that Elop's contract requires him to be paid €14.6m in share awards on top of 18 months' salary. Kallasvuo collected only 100,000 shares on top of 18 months' pay.Siilasmaa's admission is likely to reignite the heated national debate over Elop's payoff, which was triggered by Microsoft's €5.5bn takeover.Jyrki Katainen, the Finnish centre-right prime minister, criticised the payoff on national TV on Saturday as "quite outrageous". "Many, with reason, are sure to be thinking about what is reasonable," he said. "Apparently the practices of rewards by large corporations all over the world are so exceptional that they cannot be understood with common sense."Jutta Urpilainen, the country's centre-left finance minister, said the payoff could spark unrest. "In addition to the general toxic atmosphere, it may be a threat to social harmony," she wrote on her blog.The payout was triggered by a change of control clause in Elop's contract. As part of the deal with Microsoft, Elop stood down as Nokia's CEO to run the phone unit within Microsoft, his employer before he joined Nokia three years ago.The payout works out at roughly €1m for every €1bn wiped off Nokia's market value under Elop's leadership. Microsoft is paying 70% of the payoff, which works out at roughly the same as the controversial share bonuses.Nokia paid Elop a $6m signing-on bonus when he joined the company in 2010 on top of his $1.4m salary.Elop, the first foreigner to run the 148-year-old company, warned staff after taking the top job that Nokia was standing on a "burning platform" surrounded by innovative competitors that were taking its market share. He quickly decided that the company should abandon its own operating software for smartphones and tie up with Microsoft instead.Elop is widely seen as the frontrunner to replace Steve Ballmer as chief executive of Microsoft. Ballmer announced in August that he would stand down within 12 months.
Maker Fairepitches itself as &apos;the greatest show and tell on earth&apos;, a rambling, eccentric, inventive celebration of tech hackers and artists. 3D printing has always been at the heart of this colourful, crafty community, empowering the DIY community to design and build their own artwork and products on 3D printers - and helping the technology edge slowly towards the mainstream.The latest Maker Faire in New York at the weekend saw two of the biggest players show off their new products.Netherlands-based Ultimaker focused on refinement rather than revolution, offering a new model of their flagship printer. Improvements make it easier to use for beginners, with simpler software, a streamlined repository of objects to make and a new printing head which should melt less often.Market leader Makerbot, targeted at the higher end of the chain, showed not a 3D printer but a 3D scanner. The $1,400 (£875) &apos;Digitizer&apos; can turn physical objects into files compatible with the company’s Replicant line of printers, giving users who lack 3D modelling prowess a way of finding new things to print.TheDigitizer, which was announced by Makerbot in August, will ship in October. The scanner works with the object placed on a central turntable, which then rotates while the Digitizer shines a laser over the entire surface. At the end, it spits out a 3D model in the.thingfile format used by the company’s printers.That model is a high resolution scan of the original, containing over 200,000 polygons - the basic building block of all 3D models. But the limitations of the technology mean that not everything can be scanned.Makerbot warns(PDF) of trying to scan objects which are “shiny, reflective or fuzzy”, as well as those with a very dark surface colour, since the laser gets absorbed rather than reflected in the right direction. The company also encourages users to manage their expectations, writing that “you will not be able to, for example, scan a hamburger and then eat the digital design&quot;.Ultimaker, the Dutch firm which is Makerbot’s main competitor in Europe, has just launched the €1,895Ultimaker 2printer. A refinement of the original Ultimaker, it has the same external dimensions as its predecessor but a larger printing area inside, allowing users to print bigger objects. The company also pushed its online repository of 3D printer files,Youmagine.As well as the build envelope, Ultimaker has focused on a number of improvements aimed at making it easier to use, including new control software, up to 60 times faster at preparing files for printing and an improved user interface.Improvements were also made to the printer’s extruder, the head which pumps out the molten plastic from which all 3D printed objects are made. Now made almost entirely of metal, it is less likely to melt - a common problem in earlier printers.But the big push is in the online realm.Youmagineis Ultimaker’s competitor toThingiverse, the Makerbot-owned repository of 3D printer models. While Thingiverse isn’t specifically limited to designs which work on Makerbot’s printers, Ultimaker is hesitant to rely too strongly on a competitor’s website.Additionally, Youmagine aims to offer an easier workflow for people who just want to print things from their printer. In the works for the Ultimaker 2 is wireless printing, allowing users to click print on the site and watch their printer get to work immediately.But with around 500 designs uploaded, the site has a way to go to tackle Thingiverse. The market leaderbroke 100,000 models in June.• Find out how3D printing is changing the toy industry, what&apos;s on offer atSelfridges&apos; new 3D printcentre and whyMakerbot has opened a 3D printing factoryin New York.
Dunnhumby, a customer science company wholly owned by the retail giant, launched its own Dunnhumby Ventures firm on Tuesday.The new venture capital wing will fund startups which are focused on making the best use of consumer data in a retail environment.The three initial investments, which all received between £100k-£500k in seed funding, all focus on consumer data.InfoScout users receive rewards for uploading pictures of receipts, giving the startup valuable consumer data.The Shelf has a similar strategy, exchanging discounts for information but focused particularly on fashion. Labels can identify bloggers they want to target, and bloggers can make money from tools offering affiliate links.For shoppers, the Shelf offers sale alerts, wishlists and the ability to keep up-to-date with spam-free promotions.Coherent Path claims that retailer reward schemes &quot;focus too much on selling more of the things that a customer has just purchased”, and instead calculates how to make the user more loyal in store.That might involve finding out that people who buy thick-rimmed glasses also buy knitted cardigans and tight jeans – and then offering those people a discount on a very expensive coffee machine.“To me, it&apos;s what does each one of these entrepreneurs bring to the table which is going to make them successful,” says Dave Balter, Global Head of Investments at Dunnhumby. “We have a clear vision… but we&apos;re aware that we don&apos;t know what we don&apos;t know.”By investing in a diverse group of companies, Dunnhumby hopes to be able to catch hold of trends even before they are aware what they are. And, by owning Dunnhumby, Tesco gets the same benefits.“Last week the chief executive of Tesco, Philip Clarke, was in Boston, we spent the day with him,” Balter continues. “We toured some of the innovations that were happening in Boston like the MIT Media lab… You&apos;ve got the CEO of Tesco spending his time looking at innovation, thinking about innovation, and if you look at Dunnhumby and Dunnhumby Ventures… it&apos;s in lock step.”In a blogpost announcing the launch, Balter explained Dunnhumby Ventures’ vision of redefining what it means to “run down to the corner store”.&quot;In yesterday’s world, that would have meant hopping into your Buick LeSabre, rolling down the windows – manually – and wandering the aisles until you found the 24-roll Charmin somehow mixed in with the pet food. In tomorrow’s world, your retailer will know you like double-ply, and shop for it once every two weeks, which is why a personalised discount will appear simultaneously on your mobile phone and discreetly on the digital shelf as you wander by.&quot;It’s a vision which is shared by many of the biggest tech firms today. Google Now, the company’s digital personal assistant, learns from users’ behaviour, and can even learn that, at 6pm, they are about to leave work, and recommend them the best bus route home.But when those features were introduced, they weren’t unanimously welcomed. “There’s a fine line between cool and creepy,” wasa TechCrunch headline at the time; when the feature was introduce to iOS, the New York Times ran an item onHow to tell Google Now to stop peeking.Is Balter worried about a similar reaction? “I&apos;m probably just as freaked out my big companies knowing everything about me as the rest of the world… there&apos;s no-one here who doesn&apos;t understand why people think this is important.”But, he says, the only way to get customer loyalty “is to put what you want in front of you… this is about foundations of trust. The customer has to benefit first&quot;.
