Portable CD players are making a comeback, according to the Daily Telegraph, and not just with the DT's readership, which is known for its, ahem, older profile.The story says:The music players have proved so popular with shoppers that John Lewis, the department store, has started stocking the gadget again, four years after it originally phased them out.Currys, the country's largest electrical goods chain, says that sales have increased by 50 per cent compared to last year and industry figures from market research firm GfK show that 45,000 portable CD players were sold in October alone.Apparently, the comeback has been prompted by "the fact that many consumers struggle with digital music players, finding it difficult to both upload and download songs on to their computers," and by price: you can get a portable CD player for less than £15.Fair enough, but you can get a portable MP3 player for about £10, and carry around 1GB of music in a far smaller space than a portable CD player and ten CDs.I still buy CDs, because I still use proper hi-fi equipment, and I'd rather rip them myself than pay for downloads. (I'm certainly never going to buy any DRM-encumbered files.) But even I'm not tempted by a portable CD player, at any price.So who's buying them? Is it you? Why?
It's always at around this stage in the year that I begin to wonder whether it really will ever get light again, or if the blackness that encroaches a little more every day is actually the dawn of a new ice age. And if, in the depths of winter, a young woman's thoughts lightly turn to contemplation of Ragnarök, the world of technology really isn't helping.There'sGoogle's new flu trends trackerwhich, in the event of emergency, would enable me to monitor the progress of a global pandemic from the comfort of my own hermetically sealed living room. But constantly clicking "refresh" isn't making me feel any safer. And its announcement is handily concurrent with the new BBC TV seriesSurvivors. Google should really link directly to iPlayer. Once you become sufficiently convinced that a pandemic is just around the corner, you could click through to the show for handy tips like: start bathing in bleach, stockpile food and accustom yourself to the idea of making a new life on a farm. Without your friends and family, because they'll all be dead.In an attempt to relieve the anxiety, I turned to a new Nintendo DS game,Harvest Moon: Island of Happiness. The title alone was enough to persuade me that this game would surely be a balm to the weary mind. I imagined a soothing gardening simulation, rather like my old favouriteAnimal Crossing: Wild World, in which one wanders around aimlessly collecting fossils and picking fruit. Unfortunately, Harvest Moon: Island of Happiness is far more difficult than Animal Crossing: Wild World. I managed to eke out a miserable living as a subsistence farmer for a year, harvesting a total of 16 turnips, before my chickens mysteriously began to die. This is probably a very accurate simulation of how I'd do after an apocalypse. But while the death of a thousand rampaging monsters in Diablo II cheers me up no end, the deaths of my prized chickens began to get me down.Time to boot up the old reliable Animal Crossing: Wild World, then. A few minutes of planting trees and buying furniture for my imaginary house would surely cheer me up. But wait. As soon as I start a new game, I have to take out a mortgage. Even though I don't yet have a job. What's worse, the mortgage provider, shop-owning raccoon Tom Nook, insists I take out larger and larger mortgages every time the old one is paid off. This despite the fact that my only source of income is selling fruit, fish and fossils back to him and hitting rocks and shaking trees in the hope that money bags will fall out. It all becomes terribly clear to me: Tom Nook is pushing subprime mortgage debts. He and his ilk are responsible for the global financial crisis.I've started to see signs of global catastrophe everywhere now. This season's big new games include Valve's zombie apocalypse gameLeft 4 Deadand Bethesda's nuclear apocalypse gameFallout 3. Lighthearted status-update service Twitter with its cheerful "fail whale" has become akey portal for news about global terror.  Everywhere I look, the world is ending. So I've taken the only logical decision.  From now until it starts to get lighter again on December 21, there's only one piece of technology I'll be glued to: my SAD-reducing light box.
America is losing its position at the centre of the internet, according to a new study.The survey by communications analysts TeleGeography Research, based in Washington DC, shows a rapid growth in internet capacity around the rest of the world over the past year - particularly in Latin America and Asia.As a result, America's traditional role as the internet's traffic policeman is drifting away as other parts of the world become less reliant on it."The US used to be a primary hub for many regions," said Eric Schoonover, a senior analyst at TeleGeography. "A lot of data still comes through the US, and a lot of content there is served out to other countries … but its importance is declining, though it has by no means gone away."The survey - which looks at data taken from internet backbone providers around the world - examined the size and capacity of the physical connections that make up the internet, as well as the traffic that moves across them.It found that dramatic shifts have led to a decline in America's involvement in overall internet traffic. In 1999, 91% of data from Asia passed through the United States at some point on its journey. By this year that number had fallen to just 54%.The change was even more pronounced in Africa. Nine years ago the US was involved in 70% of internet traffic coming from the continent, but that number has decreased to just 6% as more can be directed internally, or through Europe and the Middle East."There used to be a phenomenon on the internet called 'tromboning'," said Schoonover. "If I were sitting in Singapore or South Africa and I sent an email to a friend three houses down, it was just as likely that the email was going to traverse New York City as somewhere local."What we see now is that phenomenon becoming less and less apparent as more local hubs and internet exchanges crop up in Latin America, in Asia and a few in Africa."Greater capacity around the world not only offers better access to millions of people, but also helps to make the internet more stable overall.Earlier this year it became apparent how important alternative routes around the world have become, when major undersea cables linking Europe, Africa and Asia were mistakenly damaged. The string of incidents cut off or reduced internet access for around 100 million people and caused massive disruption to businesses as far apart as India and Egypt.America's traditional role as the hub of internet activity is largely a result of the network's beginnings in the 1960s as the Arpanet, a chain of interlinked computers funded by the US military.That system evolved over time into the internet, but it was only really with the creation of the world wide web in 1990 by Sir Tim Berners-Lee that explosive online growth really took hold.Now more than 1.4 billion people worldwide use the internet, with access expanding and new uses requiring greater bandwidth.But earlier this year the US lost its position as the biggest country on the internet, as the number of users in China overtook the number of users in the US for the first time.There are also moves afoot to globalise the way the web works, allowing the creation of website addresses in languages like Chinese, Arabic and Russian, rather than just the Roman alphabet.Plans by Icann, the organisation which oversees internet addresses, had been opposed by some who argued that it could create a splintering of information and allow some repressive governments to exercise greater levels of control over its citizens. However, the proposals passed and the organisation plans to start liberalising web addresses in 2009.The growth of internet connectivity in other parts of the world does not mean there has been a slowdown in growth in north America and Europe, however. After several years of slower expansion, TeleGeography said capacity has started speeding up even faster, with growth rates hitting 63% last year."The US and Europe, just by the nature of scale, had started to flatten out - but even in the last year those have re-accelerated," said Schoonover."In Asia and Latin America, growth rates are through the roof and Africa is starting from such a low base, they can't help but to grow very, very quickly."&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
If you needed a flow diagram - and doesn't everyone, at some point? - of how the UK's Internet Watch Foundation/BT CleanFeed system works to prevent you seeing album covers by the Scorpions and other unsavoury content, it's right here.Thanks toNocky. AsBoing Boing comments,Translation: a third party now monitors every request made to Wikipedia from the six ISPs that participate in the Great Firewall of Britain.Flow diagram of how the Internet Watch Foundation/BT CleanFeed net censorship system works in practice
Last Friday saw the release of the final big game of the year –Prince of Persia. This is the latest in thelong-running series. I've been playing the 360 version and can't make my mind up.  The upsides? The platform jumping action is fun and fluid – though the camera can be an issue – and the art design is fantastic. TheIcoinspired relationship between the Prince and his female companion works well too. Basically the game flows well and is enjoyable to play. But there is a problem.Yes, the Prince of Persia is simply too easy. And that's coming from me, someone who is much happier playing 8 hours of quality than 80 hours of bloat and has got a gaming "to-finish" pile 2 feet high. But really, this game IS too easy. It isn't just the fact that your companion "saves" you every time you miss a jump – this is simply a sexier way to restart than showing you plummeting to your death – but the fighting is a cinch too. Okay, things do get tougher later on but still. The core platforming action is pretty straightforward too and won't trouble many gamers. Especially not, you'd imagine, veterans of the sadistic original PoP games from back in the day.But despite this I'm still playing.  When time is tight Prince of Persia engenders a sense of achievement faster than most of its contemporaries. Actually, it coughs up achievement points quickly too – I got over 100 in my first hour. But anyway. Prince of Persia is easily a 7 or 8 out of 10 and that's why I can't make my mind up about how important the skill level is.Does the ease mean more people get to play and – gasp – actually finish a game? Or is PoP the first "big" traditional gamers game that has seen its design neutered by the Wii-inspired push towards the mainstream market? Would the game have been tougher or have a less friendly design if it had come out in, say, 2005?Despite all this I've enjoyed my time with PoP and will finish it so who knows, maybe this "easy" thing has something going for it. Anyway, anyone here played PoP yet? Too easy or just right? And if it is "too easy" does that mean we can expect more of this in the future as publishers and developers target what were once "gamer" games primarily towards a less skilled and more time restricted mainstream audience?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
British internet providers have blocked access to parts of Wikipedia after accusations that the site was carrying "potentially illegal" images of child pornography.Reports from users suggest that Virgin Media, O2's Be internet service and others have blocked access to at least one Wikipedia article after it was placed on a blacklist by the Internet Watch Foundation, Britain's de facto online watchdog.The offending article, about German rock group The Scorpions' 1976 album Virgin Killers, included an image of the record's controversial cover - which featured a young naked girl with her genitals obscured by a crack in the camera lens.The image caused controversy when the album was first released, and was eventually replaced in most countries – including the UK and United States - by a shot of the band. However, the original album cover isstill on sale in the UKas part of a double album deluxe boxed set.Instead of seeingthe article itself, blocked users receive a fake message saying that the page could not be found.In a statement, the IWF said that the organisation had received a report claiming the page was pornographic through its website, and that after a review the decision was made that the page was  "potentially illegal"."As with all child abuse reports received by our Hotline analysts, the image was assessed according to the UK Sentencing Guidelines Council,"it said."The content was considered to be a potentially illegal indecent image of a child under the age of 18… and the specific URL was then added to the list."The page itself has been the subject ofhot debate among Wikipedia editors, some of whom objected to its use. However, after discussion the website's administrators determined that the original cover image would remain.The IWF – a self-regulated body that effectively operates as Britain's online watchdog – runs the blacklist, largely focusing on images of child abuse.The censoring system which uses the blacklist, known as Cleanfeed, was first launched by BT in 2004, but is now used by most of Britain's main internet providers.However, the system has not been without its critics. In 2005researchersat the University of Cambridge discovered that Cleanfeed couldeasily be reverse-engineeredto reveal a full list of all the sites containing illegal content – turning it into what lead researcher Richard Clayton called "an oracle to efficiently locate illegal websites".The proposed implementation of a similar system in Australia, also called Cleanfeed, has caused consternation among civil rights campaigners. They are concerned that the scheme – which plans to blacklist any "inappropriate" content, not just images of child abuse, and will be enforced for all Australian internet users – represents a dangerous limitation on freedom of speech.Electronic Frontiers Australia, an online campaign group, has previously attacked the "creeping scope" of the plans, calling it "unprecedented interference in our communications infrastructure".·additional reporting by Wendy Grossman· Is the ban acceptable protection or unwarranted censorship? Have your sayon our Technology blog
Wikinews reports thatBritish ISPs restrict access to Wikipedia amid child pornography allegations. The story says:Wikinews has learned that at least six of the United Kingdom's main Internet Service Providers (ISPs) have implemented monitoring and filtering mechanisms that are causing major problems for UK contributors on websites operated by the Wikimedia Foundation, amongst up to 1200 other websites. The filters appear to be applied because Wikimedia sites are hosting aScorpions album coverwhich some call child pornography. The Scorpions are a German rock band who have used several controversial album covers and are perhaps best known for their song, "Rock You Like a Hurricane".The story says that the "major UK ISPs" are thought to be O2/Be Unlimited, Virgin Media, Easynet, Plusnet, Demon, and Opal Telecommunications (TalkTalk).The blocking has been prompted by the UK's Internet Watch Foundation, which has put out a statement today (Sunday).It says:A Wikipedia web page, was reported through the IWF's online reporting mechanism in December 2008. As with all child sexual abuse reports received by our Hotline analysts, the image was assessed according to the UK Sentencing Guidelines Council (page 109). The content was considered to be a potentially illegal indecent image of a child under the age of 18, but hosted outside the UK. The IWF does not issue takedown notices to ISPs or hosting companies outside the UK, but we did advise one of our partner Hotlines abroad and our law enforcement partner agency of our assessment. The specific URL (individual webpage) was then added to the list provided to ISPs and other companies in the online sector to protect their customers from inadvertent exposure to a potentially illegal indecent image of a child.The Scorpions album was released in 1976, so it's amazing to think that civilisation has managed to survive for more than 30 years[corrected], in spite of this evil in our midst.The IWF has not acted against Amazon.com or other sites that carry images of the original album cover (which has apparently been replaced by something much uglier), such as Google. Also, there are several other album covers to censor, not to mention paintings, books, movies and Shakespeare plays. Presumably it's just a matter of time….It should be noted that the cover in question is no stranger to controversy, and its use on Wikipedia has been under debate for some time. Gawker ran the story,Wikipedia Is Arguing Whether This Album Cover Is Child Porn, seven months ago, on May 9. But I didn't notice any American ISP's blocking access to Wikipedia.Of course, this IWF action has done nothing to stop real child pornography, which we all abhor. Also, even the people whose access to Wikipedia has been restricted will be able to find ways round it, if they can be bothered. What it has actually done is ensure that millions of people will go and look at the cover to see what all the fuss is about, when otherwise they'd never have suffered from "inadvertent exposure" to it.But it will be interesting to see the response. Has the IWF done the right thing, or has it merely damaged its own credibility? What else is being blocked because the IWF thinks it might be "potentially illegal"? What do you think?
VALUED PICTURESThanks to Wendy M. Grossmann for the tips and "nerve calming" as a result of her article. From a Swiss small business which has received just such a threatening, extortiant letter from Getty for alleged misuse of some inconsequential graphic and asking us to pay £1500. We were wondering if we should just pay their requested amount to get this off our table as we have had no experience of such matters. We won't pay now as their demands are totally unreasonable. Thanks again...Jim Romaguera, Zurich, SwitzerlandI saw your article on Getty. I too fell out with them over copyright for images I didn't even purchase from them but through a reputable agency. Very aggressive tactics. I'm always surprised that people still use them. Istock was such a threat to them they bought it. One for Monopolies in my view. BBC use them so much it hurts to pay me licence fee. There has to be a better way...Tim Moyle, Braintree&gt;&gt; In our case the original demand was for over 1770 Euro – for an image 180×90 pixels used on a web site which gets a few tens or hundreds of hits per month!Getty Images is not an easy company to deal with. In our case, the correspondence was in German, written from a London address, posted in the USA and the bank account we were supposed to send the money to was in Ireland. Why they chose to write in German when the web site was completely in English? I imagine they hoped that we wouldn't fully understand the letter, which was full of legal terms, and that that would increase the anxiety level for us.keyscorner.com&gt;&gt; What if you are a small business with your own great content, images, videos and even website code and you find that is being taken without your consent and you have no way of knowing or worse still, you do know because your content is on another website that is ranking above you in search engines?Unfortunately finding out if somebody's using your images without consent is a lot more difficult that checking if your copy has been plagiarised. To find out if your text has been reproduced on another website you can use Copyscape or you can just cut and paste unique snippets of your text into Google and bookend the snippet with double quotations.If you do discover a site has been using your content without permission you should ask the owner to remove the content or pay you. If they refuse then file a DMCA with Google and speak to their hosting provider.i-com.net&gt;&gt; And one wonders why a lot of photographers are still afraid on the Internet.1854.euGOOGLE'S SNEEZING&gt;&gt; if Google was to sell its information to drug companies, would we end up getting emails and/or phone calls asking us if we have flu or know someone who has, and if so, would we like to buy this wonder drug? It's not clear how likely this is but it is possible.jherring.wordpress.comFIBRE, SET LOOSESorry Charles, but you must expect pedants - I'm sure I'm not the first to say that USB 2 is 480Mbps, so 5 times faster than FTTH. Probably you were thinking bytes. [Yes, the article was incorrect - Tech.Ed]Gerry Cutler, Benfleet&gt;&gt; that's why, despite nobody doubting that faster broadband speeds are a good thing, it's going to be really difficult to fund [fibre to the home] at the moment.In the UK the cost of a nationwide rollout has been estimated at £15bn.thehermesproject.comSTORM FRONTIn Charles Arthur's Technophile column today he says that the Storm has the Blackberry "two letters per key" keyboard, but the ad for the phone on p19 of the main newspaper today states that it has a full QWERTY keyboard. Is Charles wrong or is the ad misleading? [It's only QWERTY when held sideways - Tech.Ed]Colin Robertson, OxfordAre we sure Charles Arthur was actually using a Storm?In his article he states categorically that the Storm has no Qwerty keypad layout - I work for Vodafone and I can assure you that Qwerty comes into use automatically when the phone screen rotates to landscape mode. For evidence of this you need look no further than the photo of the Storm you've used in the online article itself....oops!!!Did somebody use this photo to deliberately make the writer of the article look like a tit?!?!Paul Wills, CrosbyI've had a Storm for a week now and I really don't think the review does it justice. Having just written some words to the same effect on an internet forum, and as there is no facility to comment directly on his article on the website, I thought I would send them to you via email. Apologies for referring to Charles in the third person!I wholeheartedly disagree with that review, and I think it is pretty poor journalism!Taking each of his criticisms in turn:500MB [monthly data limit] - absolutely nothing to do with the phone. If the review was titled "new BB STorm on Vodafone" then fair enough, but as a worldwide syndicated publication the Guardian should know better than to slate a product because it is hamstrung by a carrier (Vodafone) and a toothless regulator (OfCom)Touchscreen - OK, that guy doesn't like the click screen and fair enough. It's always going to be a Marmite thing. What I dislike is that effectively he is saying "I don't like the screen, therefore nobody else will". Where are the second opinions from his colleagues on the screen? As I said before, the click screen is exactly *why* I personally like the device, prevents all those accidentally clicked links and half sent emails. That's just me.Wi-Fi - fair enough. I would argue that most people don't need it and never use it, but I would much rather have it than not.SureType - "the virtual keyboard (which rotates with the phone, like the iPhone's) is the BlackBerry Pearl's "two letters per key" style, not the standard Qwerty. Some people swear by it; I swear at it." Really, wow, that's alright then, RIM and millions of delighted Pearl users, plus all the HTC users who devices that copied SureType are wrong. Good job his inability to spend 5 mins getting used to it isn't biasing the review.Camera Shutter Lag - fair enough, and I can't remember what the iPhones is like, so I can't comment. It should be faster, but it is no slower than any HTC."It does take video; the iPhone doesn't. Huzzah." Again, here this is saying "I don't care about this feature, so it's not important". Great, OK then. Hating to be the one to point it out but for me and lots of others the video camera is v important and one of the reasons we don't own an iPhone. I personally spend a lot of time bedding supermodels, and I find it very handy to have a video camera when they want to do me a little 'show'... laugh.UI - agreed, it's not perfect, but it's nowhere near as bad as he is making out, and for my money it's better featured than the iPhone, many more options and cross-application integration.Application Installation - I wouldn't have thought pressing End then opening the downloads folder would have been tooooo taxing. Sure it could be smoother and BB need to dump their ridiculous Ts &amp; Cs, but how often do you install applications on a phone? Once a week max, maybe? Is this really the end of the world?What really irks me is there is basically not a single positive in the whole review. There is absolutely no balance! Where are all the things it can do which the iPhone cannot: MMS; cut and paste; not limited to the apps Apple approves; the cross-application integration; voice dialling and voice dialling over Bluetooth; stereo Bluetooth; turn by turn sat-nav; expandable memory - in a few months you'll be able to have 33Gb memory on a Storm.Don't get me wrong, I like the iPhone, but it's a different animal and it's instantly easy to use at the expense of a slightly lower feature set. The Storm requires more time to really get used to and to love, but once you do it is the more powerful device.In conclusion, I can completely understand that Charles doesn't like the Storm, but I don't think the review presented a rounded opinion on the device.Tom Woodforde (no address given)RECAPTURED RECAPTCHA&gt;&gt; This is very, very cool — it makes the anti-spam login step bifunctional: in addition to fulfilling the intended purpose, a valuable side benefit is also provided.Like Skype or file-sharing, it leverages an existing infrastructure. But instead of data transmission infrastructure or computer memory, reCaptcha capitalizes on the "gatekeeping service" crucial to innumerable websites.Very cool, and worthy of being my first polyfunctionality tag!eclecticlip.ca&gt;&gt; a truly innovative approach to this problem which made me shout for joy - because in tackling it, a quite different problem is harnessed and both are solved. Each problem becomes part of the solution to the other. How elegant is that? ...For me, it's this synergy of two apparently unrelated puzzle tasks which is the beauty and the elegance of the solution. Who says IT people can't be creative?!itasitis.wordpress.comSECOND OR FIRST LIFEPaul Carr is clearly unprofessional enough to escalate his offensive and extremely poorly researched article by continuing on his personal blog. I am one of many if you see the comments after his post who think this - I expect more from The Guardian - this lame type of inaccurate sensationalistic journalism is simply not worthy.Poid Mahovlich, Newcastle-upon-TynePaul Carr's piece is all very much in the present tense, eg: "Wandering around Second Life today is like visiting Blackpool in February; all sad empty shops,"Yet hasn't he long since left Second Life itself? His account was apparently pulled some time ago (either canceled or banned), perhaps not long after cashing in on the SL hype cycle with his book. Granted there's hardly any actual facts in the piece, but those that are that do not concern Carr himself appear to be substantively incorrect.Reuters left two months ago, not one week ago. Duran Duran never appeared, and SL is as busy or busier than ever. Not, apparently that Carr would actually seem to be in a position to know.So, what's up with that? Is Carr just making it up as he goes along, or was this just a comedy piece that failed to correctly convey the satire?Tateru Nino (no address given)FUELLING DISAGREEMENTThe principles described were developed by Professor Yukichi Asakawa in the 1950s and 1960s, and patented by him - (one) and (two).Various of his other related patentsare listed.If I recall correctly, his work was demonstrated on Tomorrow's World in the 1970s, by means of a Bunsen burner with greatly enhanced combustion efficiency when an electric charge was passed through the flame.I corresponded with Professor Asakawa during the mid-1970s while trying, as a student, to explore his findings - a most charming, helpful and intelligent man.I hope the current researchers can, with due regard to patent rights, bring his work to widespread commercial success.Glenn Oliver, AshbourneFINGERING BIOMETRICSThis article would have done 'The Guardian', and its author, some credit if it had bothered to look more critically at the Unisys report instead of simply taking it at face value, parroting its contents, and therefore acting as a broadcaster for it's propaganda, which is exactly what it's producers hope will happen.The reports annually produced by Unisys are little more than cynical, superficial, self-interested bits of FUD* designed to encourage uptake of the services provided by Unisys (and the industry as a whole).A very disappointing piece of non-journalism.Alisdair Laird, BeverleySTILL PINKAndrew Brown must have been desperate for something to write about, or maybe he thought a headline about being 'pink with embarassment' would justify his criticisms of the new FT website. As a very regular reader of FT Online, I found the redesign wonderful, it is very much clearer to read and navigate, at least as good as the Guardian's. It's not a matter of whether FT readers are able to read large chunks of information, it's about whether the front-page of a complex website should be clearly laid out and well structured, and on both counts this new redesign works extremely well for me. It's also quicker to load (maybe reducing the intrusive flash-y adverts helps). There's plenty of detailed text behind that front page, Andrew, it's whether you can easily find what you want that counts, and for me the new FT does this very well.Sol Picciotto, Leamington SpaMORE ORDNANCE SURVEYFollowing up Charles Arthur's worrying article on 19/11/08 I've had a look at the open source web base [of OpenStreetMap] with a view to rolling up my sleeves and contributing items to the map in my area, CT15 4EU.Although I've spent my working life measuring, scaling and plotting in the course of building project design I have to say I'm daunted by the lack of buildings currently shown along the streets and also worried by the vague instructions given by tutorial for adding building features. It seems to me that the project is fine as a base layout with applied symbols that show the general position of useful facilities, such as the Rome drinking fountains highlighted on today's main page, but without the rigours of precise plotting it will remain a diagram rather than achieve the status of a proper map. There's often a virtue in keeping a base map simple, for a particular purpose, but a street plan is no substitute for the Ordnance Survey base, which theoretically shows the street and all its surroundings accurately. Maybe I've missed the point of OSM, but to me, inaccurate data is not worth a candle.It may be that the Galileo project will make GPS positioning sufficiently more accurate to allow those huge gaps on the map to be populated precisely but so far it doesn't seem worth making a start.Peter Lawson, NoningtonDIGITISE THISHappens all the time in adverts. The Guardian gadget offer fills whole back page of today's TechnologyGuardian. We're offered a Piano Black (!) USB turntable to digitise our cherished vinyl. Minimum system requirements PCs only. So why is connected to a MacBook Pro? Or is it the text that's wrong? Hardly matters; it's analogue sound that I cherish.Paul Laxton, New Brighton
The top 60Japanese phrases of 2008How to eliminatewashing-up from your lifeWho needspictures?Tristan da Cunhais the remotest island on earthJack Nicholson'ssister was really his mumAC/DC havemade a video in Microsoft ExcelSinging isthe key to a long life and heightened sexual attractivenessA coughtravels 3 feet
Despite outselling CDs, DVDs and chips, decent TV shows about videogames are as rare as rocking horse dung. The exception was BBC Scotland's cruelly axed Video Gaiden, which cut to the heart of videogame reviews by revealing that Super Mario Galaxy is "a wee fat man floating around in space having the time of his life". Its presenters, Rab and Ryan, are still at large online - with extra Glaswegian swearing. Cleverly, their online show is now broken down into small, YouTube nuggets, which destroys some of the surreal wonder but makes it easier to dip into. New clips are coming, but the existential crisis of a Bond girl is recommended.
In a game of word association, "responsive" is probably still not a choice that often follows "diesel". Things have changed since the days when every diesel car sounded like a London taxi, and the interval between depressing the accelerator and increasing speed could be used to compose free verse or study cloud formations.But, in spite of engineering improvements, a diesel car is still, well, a diesel: fuel efficient, but a bit dull. That, at least, summarised my own feelings until I took - all too temporary - possession of the new Audi TT.I've had a soft spot for the TT since its inception a decade ago, even during the early experimental years when it appeared to be involved in rather more high-speed crashes than strictly necessary. It just looked so damned good: compact yet sleek, sporty but understated. Leaving aside performance statistics for a moment, it scored satisfyingly low on the jerk-o-meter. Put another way, one has never felt the urge to do violence to TT drivers in the way that one might fantasise about meting out road justice to the occupier of that overtaking Porsche.I recall once visiting the novelist Douglas Coupland in his modernist house in the Vancouver hills. I managed to keep my materialist envy in check while admiring the spacious, light-filled interiors of the house, its dramatic setting, and his impressive modern art collection. But I was overcome with an aching sense of lifestyle impoverishment when we went for a drive up the Pacific Highway in his Audi TT. Yes, I remember thinking, I wouldn't mind writing novels about blank generation neurotics if it landed me one of these babies.My ardour was only mildly dampened when I saw the TT I'd been delivered was white. White is a fine colour for teeth and sitting rooms but not cars. It bespeaks a gaucheness that ill fits the subtle charms of the TT. That small disappointment was more than offset by the red leather of the smartly contoured seats which, but for an absence of dimples, might have been lifted from the chamber of the House of Lords. In fact, the whole interior is a joy to inhabit, the one solitary false note being an oval rear-view mirror that sacrifices to unconvincing style a proper view of the cars disappearing in your wake.The mark of a sensible sports car is not rear seating, which is only there - as in this case - to make you believe that a coupe is more flexible than it actually is. Rather, it's how it handles going slowly. Some high-performance cars really feel as if they're straining at the leash, growling embarrassingly as you gingerly negotiate speed humps and the school crossing.The TT is not like that. It's a comfortable, unobtrusive city drive. But what is it like on the open road? Had it not been for the provocative actions of a fellow TT driver, who whizzed past me on the M1, I should have remained in conscientious ignorance of the TT's upper-end handling over 70mph. After all, the speed limit ought never to be broken, particularly at 120mph.I didn't, of course, record that speed, but if I had done, I could imagine that it would have been a steady and stable progress, rather than lightning acceleration. That's the beauty of the TT: it feels responsive, without you having to prove it.Audi TT Coupe 2.0 TDI quattroPrice£26, 400Top speed140mphAcceleration0-62 in 7.5 secondsAverage consumption53.3mpgC02 emissions139g/kmEco rating8.5/10At the wheelTerence StampBound forWaterloo SunsetIn a wordAdult
Manipulating digital information with a wave of the hand - like Tom Cruise's character in the sci-fi movie Minority Report - will become more and more common in the next five years, a leading computer scientist will say at this year's Royal Institution Christmas lectures.Professor Chris Bishop, the chief research scientist at Microsoft in Cambridge, will also tell his audience that 3D displays are likely to become more common for some applications as well. "You can get lost in the detail with computers but if you strip away the detail there are a few very beautiful ideas," he said.As well as predicting the future of computing, Bishop wants to wow his audience with mind-boggling facts. "People don't realise that in their wallet they are probably carrying around half a dozen computers," said Bishop. For example, a credit card contains a computer with 30 times more processing power and 100 times more memory than the guidance computer that took the Apollo astronauts to the moon in the 1960s.The lectures will be screened by Five over Christmas.
Star Wars Holiday SpecialDedicated to the 1978 TV special that sought to answer the question, What do you get a Wookie for Christmas - when they've already got a comb? A gun?I Wish It Could Be Christmas EverydayThe Beatles' Christmas messages, the last Two Ronnies TV special and what men wanted for Christmas in 1957.Cheerful EarfulFree downloads of cheesy and long deleted Christmas albums.Ugly Christmas LightsThe subtle way to say "Happy Birthday Jesus" and a blacklight house among weird illumations.TurduckenNothing says Christmas dinner like a chicken cooked inside a duck cooked inside a turkey. With bacon.SantarchyFootage of Kringle chaos as hundreds of Santas invade shopping centres.
The cheese-loving northern troublemaker and his long suffering canine companion are back with a new short movie on BBC1 this Christmas. To celebrate the arrival of A Matter Of Loaf And Death, in which Wallace and Gromit are proud owners of bread-baking business Top Bun, Aardman Animations have given the duo's website a magnificent spruce. Exhausting every available pun, visitors can Make Loaf Not War in the community section, dust their desktops with some W&amp;G Downloaves and become a Bread Winner in the baking competition. Elsewhere, enjoy a production blog, a trailer, clips or seasonal kids' games.
Tomb Raider: Underworld — Wii/PC/PS2/PS3 (reviewed)/Xbox 360After the mild-reinvention evident in Tomb Raider: Legend, Underworld goes straight back to the old days, offsetting a heaped portion of spectacular scenery and box-moving puzzles with the usual ledge-shimmying and precipitous jumps. You can now see a lot more than you used to be able to, Lara Croft actually gets a bit grubby when you've made her roll around too many tombs, her climbing abilities have improved and she can swim underwater without fear of drowning, but this is every bit the original Tomb Raider in spirit. That means it features familiar flicky camera angles; lifeless, random-feeling combat; a plot that is at best meandering and a collection mechanic which makes a bling noise when you find treasure but then can't even be bothered to tell you what you've unearthed. Underworld looks good and has its moments, but feels like a missed opportunity in terms of Lara's evolution.• Eidos, &pound;29.99-&pound;49.99Wii Music — WiiIn Wii Music, you and up to three friends jam along to popular tunes using a variety of cartoon-simulated instruments, ranging from violin to record decks via the sitar. Holding the Wii-remote and nunchuk as you would miming to that particular instrument, you press buttons to trigger new notes, with the Wii ensuring each one is in tune, even if it's woefully off the beat. Adding more notes creates a slightly jazzier part for that instrument and playing them at the right time makes the songs more recognisable, but it's impossible to play a wrong note and there's no scoring system. What's left is a kind of sanitised un-game that neither punishes nor rewards, leaving no room for skill or creativity, but a kind of middle ground in which you can't fail or do anything worthy of notice. A deeply puzzling release.• Nintendo, &pound;39.99Resistance 2 — PS3Extending the original's premise of aliens invading when Europe would normally have been engaged in the second world war, the sequel takes the action out of Grimsby (the rather unlikely setting for an early part of the first game), placing it instead in 1950s America. This outing also ratchets up the alien body count by throwing relentless waves of screeching Chimera in your direction, spiced up with increasingly brutal larger beasts, some of which arrive just as you've finished dealing with an onslaught you can scarcely believe you survived. This escalating cruelty to players is exacerbated by its frugality with ammunition, forcing you to repel Serious Sam-style hordes of aliens and pesky, highly insistent drones while desperately trying to find dropped weapons. While in no way the equal of Xbox 360's Gears Of War 2, there's still fun to be had, albeit of the mildly masochistic variety.• SCEE, &pound;44.99
Not long ago, my colleague Charlie Brooker wrote a column dismissing 9/11 conspiracy theories. Brooker is popular anyway, regularly attracting hundreds of comments, but that week the Guardian website was overrun. Thousands took to their keyboards to object. In the brave new world of digital media this is, of course, exactly what we all want - lots of traffic, lots of hits, lots of eyeballs on those ads. So the next week Brooker went further. If all it takes is a word, or a phrase, why not pack the piece with them? His column began thus: "Miley Cyrus, Angelina, Israel vs Palestine, iPhone, 9/11 conspiracy, Facebook, MySpace, and Britney Spears nude."This week it was announced that of the billions of searches typed into yahoo.com over the last year, Britney Spears was the most popular, followed by World Wrestling Entertainment, and only then Barack Obama: one could, in theory, tweak that Brooker opening line to read: "Britney Spears, World Wrestling Entertainment, Barack Obama, Miley Cyrus, RuneScape, Jessica Alba, Naruto, Lindsay Lohan, Angelina Jolie, and American Idol" (ie, the rest of the top 10, once terms such as Google, or sex, or porn, have been removed), then just sit back and watch the tide come in.Unfortunately, and with all due respect to my esteemed colleague, things aren't quite as simple as that. At a very basic level, we relate to the internet in one of three ways: active, ie, typing words into search engines, a method limited - I use the word advisedly - by our own imaginations; passive, ie, checking in on the front page of the Guardian, the BBC, or the New York Times to see if our world has changed, then going away again; and interactive, ie, things like the blogosphere.In the prehistory of the internet age - about 1995, say - that first method of relating was paramount, and you could write "Britney Spears" (or more likely "Spice Girls") 20 times in a first paragraph and stand a good chance of having your article pop up at the top of the Yahoo results page. But then Google came along, in 1998, and rewrote the rules. Now when you type in a word, Google ranks the results according to how popular a site or article is, and it judges that not by how many hits it's had, or how many times a keyword appears, but how many times it's been linked to, and passed on: in effect, as Danny Sullivan, editor in chief of searchengineland.com, and an acknowledged world expert in "search", puts it, according to "the quality of links, and the context of those links".So a piece consisting entirely of popular keywords might get lots of hits, but it would also have a very high rate of "bounce" - people would exit as quickly as they'd entered, and definitely not pass it on to their friends, or link to it on their website, or use it as a hyperlink in a blog. It would, in effect, be nearly invisible to a search engine such as Google - and, indeed, Brooker's piece doesn't show up when you type any of those key words in. Also, he only got the usual number of comments by doing it, instead of the 1,778 of the week before, when most of the traffic would have arrived at the Guardian through communities of people discussing the column, getting cross about it, and passing it on to other people who might get cross. Relying on keywords alone, says Scott Karp, formerly director of digital strategy at the Atlantic magazine, now CEO of Publish2, Inc, a web-based newswire, "is a losing game".But how to win? That, of course, is the billion-dollar question, and armies of people tackle it, every day: the dark art of manipulating Google's algorithms, otherwise known as search engine optimisation (SEO), has become a big business in the last 10 years. "A common way to get a lot of links very quickly is by getting people in India or somewhere to make them for you," says Paul Roach, the Guardian's head of SEO.There are more aggressive, automated ways, too - scripting, using hijacked computers to add links to blogs, hacking messageboards - but these are referred to, in somewhat Disney-esque fashion, as "black hat" methods, and Google thoroughly disapproves: in fact, if you're caught using them, you're immediately banned. "We're what you call white hat," says Roach. "We follow Google's terms of service. Then again, we've got no reason not to - Google trusts the Guardian, so we generally do all right."Other than that the answer, insofar as there is one, is internal to the piece. "You just have to write great content," says Roach, blithely. Which is easier said than done - and not just for the age-old reason that writing a good piece is a difficult thing to do. The fact is that a good piece on the printed page is not quite the same as a good piece on the internet, because the internet is changing the way we read, and the way we write.It is also, argued Nicholas Carr in a recent issue of the Atlantic, rewiring our brains: because we can move so fast, and our sources of information are so disparate, "the net is chipping away [our] capacity for concentration and contemplation." Many of us might instinctively agree - but these are arguments that have been made over the millennia, from Socrates, who objected that writing things down would damage our oral memory, to Gutenberg's critics, who felt that the easy availability of books would lead to intellectual laziness, to those who were worried that newspapers would cause a shallow cacophony that drowned out proper thought. The fact is that, internet-wise, it's still early days; the jury is still out.It's not, for example, a question of vocabulary. "The impact of the internet on the English language has been very, very small in terms of grammar and new words," says David Crystal, a linguist whose most recent book is Txting: The gr8 db8. There are words such as mouse and click, but only several hundred of them - which in the context of a language with a million words is neither here nor there. And in terms of optimising search, new words can be a hindrance. "Old words are better than new words," says Jakob Nielsen, an expert on web usability, "because they are more straightforward and more likely to match the way people think." Karp teaches blogging, and emphasises a conversational tone - he tells his students to imagine they're talking to someone just across the room from you.Nielsen's general advice, for those of us who like a well-turned sentence or a subtle argument, makes slightly depressing reading. "Stick to simple presentation formats in all ways: a logical progression of the story, mainly active sentences, simple words, short sentences, and a plain, scrolling page. Also, keep people looking down the page by scattering attractive elements throughout the page in the form of subheads and bulleted lists. Plus, of course, use user-oriented keywords for both headings and subheads, emphasising the eternal 'what's in it for me?' perspective. Web users are selfish and brutal in rejecting material that doesn't immediately serve their purposes." Short pieces work. Lists work even better. Long, thoughtful, investigative pieces don't.Then again, not everything on the web is trying to impart useful information as fast as possible. Crystal warns: "The problem of the internet is the problem of generalisations. [There's such a range] from the web in all its fecundity to the opposite extreme of Twitter - let alone all the interactive sites like YouTube. It's obviously making us learn lots of new literacies, and it's changing very, very fast. Whatever generalisation you make today is going to be out of date tomorrow."From a newspaper point of view, this is both an opportunity and a headache. There is, for example, the great tension between what people think they want, and what we think they need to know. Newspapers used to be able to just tell people things, and count on them listening. If a story was on a front page, that was what people read, and what people talked about - and everything that wasn't on the front page got carried along with it, and was read in its wake."Now," says Karp, "everything is up for grabs", and every piece has to fight for attention on its own merits. It isn't enough just to publish it: you suddenly have this "whole idea of actually having to market the news - how do you get it emailed around? How do you get it on to Twitter, or Digg [a content-sharing site]? And whose responsibility is it to flog stories? The PR department? The editorial staff? It's what bloggers do - they're out there hustling, interacting with each other a lot. You actually have to engage in a more social dynamic." He compares old and new media to the difference between standing in front of a room and giving a speech, and going to a party: it isn't enough just to walk into a room - you have to get stuck in there, and start talking to people, and try to work out what they're interested in, and what they want to hear.Which is more possible than ever before. We can track exactly what people are reading, and how many are reading it, almost in real time, through page impressions on websites such as Google Trends. While I was writing this piece, I knew for a fact that the most-read piece on the Guardian website was about Roy Keane resigning as manager of Sunderland AFC, closely followed by a piece about beauty pageants. "Now, you could take a really vicious economic view of it, and print only that type of story," says Karp. "But there are things that journalism does because they're important, not because they're popular. Which is a public service argument, not a business argument." And in an increasingly difficult economic climate, an argument that is becoming  harder to make.Then again - you guessed it - it's not that straightforward. The wisdom of crowds may tend towards the obvious (football, Britney Spears) but it doesn't always, and can't be predicted. Last year, a short BBC website piece about a Sudanese man being required to marry a goat turned up on over a million other websites. It was the kind of piece that might get picked up by Digg, which has an average of 35 million users a month, and tends towards the quirky, fratboy end of the spectrum (yesterday videogames, food fights, and movie one-liners were doing well), and thus climb the search lists - but deliberately aiming to appeal there would bend the Guardian's profile completely out of shape.You could track Google Trends, and make absolutely sure you always have a story on the most popular subject that week, as some newspapers apparently do - but that way madness lies, if only because, as Sullivan points out, "by the time you catch up, people may not be searching for that [topic] any more." Not to mention the fact that a newspaper should really be setting the trends, not following them. The big spike in Britney searches this month was in part caused by traditional media - she released an album, and appeared on The X Factor.More profitably, you can study exactly how people put words together when they're searching for things. Traditionally, and very enjoyably, newspaper headlines have tended toward the witty and playful - but it's no help to be writing variations on "Asian wave of death," as, reportedly, the New York Times was in December 2004, until it was pointed out to the headline writers that "tsunami" was actually the word people were searching for. But even that wouldn't necessarily be enough. Google News does privilege large news organisations, but on a big story like that it has 4,500 or so such organisations to choose from, and it is, to a large extent, pot luck (otherwise known as a non-human Google algorithm) as to which one ends up on top.You could, to follow that party analogy, just stand in the middle of the room and shout, tendentiously. And it might work very well, depending on how you do it: Not long ago, Karp says, he put a piece up on his blog called, "Why I stopped using Twitter - because 'Twitter's a massive waste of time'. It was actually more nuanced than that, but ... I did kind of write it knowing it was going to be big, as a joke: let's see if I can hack the blogosphere. It went viral." But that's clearly a method with diminishing returns - although, inadvertently, it also points to one relatively failsafe way of getting lots of traffic: the internet loves talking about itself. For a while last week, if you put the word "pirates" into Google, it was coming up with a piece about internet piracy instead of Somalis because although the latter were the big story of the day, the blog-savvy tech community were spending a lot of time telling each other about the other sort. It is conceivable, for example - though not in the slightest bit predictable - that this piece could do better than another piece about Britney Spears, or Obama.Unless, of course, that piece was real news, and the more surprising the better. When I ask Sullivan how I might write a story that could be guaranteed to come top on every search engine, and every most-read list on the planet, the answer is quite simple. "You would want to have a news story that was unprecedented," he says, "on a topic that would attract tons of people and was your exclusive - like, let's say, 'Obama has decided to quit tomorrow.' You'd have huge amounts of traffic." Which is not so different from traditional media after all.
As I type this, members of the European Parliament are preparing to repeat one of the worst mistakes in copyright history — enacting a European version of America's reviled Copyright Term Extension Act of 1998.The EU version will tack 45 years onto the duration of  copyright for existing and future sound recordings, making for a grand total of 95 years' worth of monopoly control for companies that produce recordings.Five years after the US passage of the Copyright Term Extension Act, the US Supreme Court heard Eldred v Ashcroft, a case that challenged the constitutionality of extending the copyright of works that have already been created.Giving additional copyright for existing works can't possibly create the incentive to make more works — you could give Elvis Presley a million years' worth of copyright on his 1955 recordings and he still won't record any more music. Though the Supremes ruled that copyright extension was constitutional, they also held that it was nonsensical.The US extension of copyright has turned almost every work created in America's history into an "orphan" — a work whose copyright has not expired, but whose copyright holder has been lost to the mists of time.The court in Eldred held that an astonishing 98% of works in copyright were orphaned. In many cases, it's certain that all known copies of these works will disappear before their copyright lapses, meaning that the creative output of artists gone by will simply vanish. By contrast, works in the public domain, whose copyrights have expired, can be freely re-issued and remixed without the costly business of figuring out which far-flung descendant of some long-dead musician holds the right to them.Experts all agree: extending the copyright on existing works provides no benefit save a windfall to a small minority of already-wealthy artists and giant corporations (if your music is still commercially viable after 50 or 95 years, you're a billionaire like Paul McCartney, not a struggling artist — or you're the giant label that acquired the rights to one of the lucky few artists' works).Meanwhile, these extensions exact a terrible cost on the public and on living, working creators. The windfall has to come fromsomewhere— if term extension puts £150,000,000 per annum in the pockets of the big four labels, then the public will be £150,000,000 poorer every year.And by keeping popular music in copyright, government strengthens the whip-hand of the giant labels over new artists, because for so long as a few companies own this music, they can limit the right to sample and remix to those artists who sign their punitive, one-sided recording contracts.The British government's own experts concur: the wide-ranging 2006 Gowers Review of Intellectual Property concluded that term-extension was a non-starter. Interestingly, this was the first time I know of that a government asked its economists, rather than its cultural regulators, to assess the cost and benefit of a copyright law — and for an economist, this is a simple matter to understand.No company or individual will make larger or smaller investments in music because the term of copyright is extended from 50 to 95 years — the "net present value" of the 51st year of copyright is zero. But a tiny minority of winners in the copyright game will receive a gigantic bonus from term extension as the insanely tiny, profitable slice of music at the very top end of the market is protected for decades more.The EU proposal to extend copyright in the face of evidence and advice is rushing forward with the speed of a banker's bailout. It's a real sweetheart deal, too: under the EU's terms, copyright extension will further complicate the process of saving orphan works from the scrapheap of history, and labels will be empowered to claw back some of the royalties owed to artists and stick it directly in their pockets.In a time of governmental bailouts for firms that bungled their own finances, this may seem like the a new chorus in the same old song. After all, the record companies that are crying poor today are the same firms that spent decades savaging their own artists, that attacked new technology rather than embracing it, and whose best answer to shifting technology is to sue tens of thousands of music fans into bankruptcy.However you feel about a banker's claim that no one will run the financial system unless his bank is bailed out, there's no reason to believe that no one will record music unless the record companies continue to receive fantastic subsidy from our lawmakers.For the first time in decades, there is a thriving, growing and vibrant set of alternatives to signing up with a big record company, and if the only way to keep the Big Four viable is to tax the public and dead artists with one-sided laws that defy common sense and expert opinion, then it's time to let those giants topple.It's time to give your MEP a call and let them know that America's failures should stay on the other side of the Atlantic — that globalising copyright bungles is the wrong thing to do.
I recently had an email from a friend on Facebook, with a link to a Secret Video by Tom. This takes the social engineering route of telling you that your Flash player is out of date, and asks you to download an update. It lies. It's an attempt to install the Koobface worm, which only affects Microsoft Windows. For details, seeKoobface remains active on FacebookorW32/Koobface.wormDon't install it: just delete the email. If you did install it, you need to run anti-virus software to remove it.Apparently, a similar attack is being made on MySpace users.
As expected, Microsoft hasconfirmedthat Dr Qi Lu, formerly Yahoo's search guru, "will lead Microsoft's efforts in search and online advertising and all the company's online information and communications services," starting in January. TechCrunch haspublished the emailthat Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer sent to staff, which announces an introductory staff meeting/webcast on Monday.Meanwhile Brian McAndrews, former boss of aQuantive, has quit, or in HR/PR-speak, "has decided to transition out of Microsoft." Presumably he sees a better future elsewhere after not getting the top job, andKara Swisher at All Things Dsays he "would not be a bad choice for Yahoo's new CEO".It could be considered brave of Ballmer, a marketing man, to pick a technical expert to run search, rather than a marketing expert. This at least suggests he sees the answer to Microsoft's online problems as delivering better results rather than doing more marketing. (Indeed, the press release says the online division's sales droids are being moved to Kevin Turner's centralised marketing group, out of the way.)It could also be considered brave of Qi Lu to accept what could be a poisoned chalice -- since it may be that no improvement quality, and no amount of marketing, would be enough to break Google's stranglehold on search -- but we can assume he'll be very well paid for taking it on. And failure is sustainable in cases where no one really expects you to succeed.Qi Lu wasn't hired away -- he'd already left Yahoo -- but it wouldn't be a surprise to see more Yahoo staff leaving for Redmond. Microsoft already hasGary Flake(the founder of Yahoo's research lab) and,as noted previously, has hired Yahoo's Sean Suchter as well. It's certainly a cheaper approach than paying $45 billion for the whole company.Update: Steve Ballmer and Qi Lu and gave a telephone interview tothe Wall Street Journal.
The other day a message popped up on Twitter. Jay Rosen, who teaches journalism at New York University,asked— in all seriousness, and innocence — "I know I sound clueless and that's never pleasant, but... what in tarnation does 'rickrolled' mean?"Oh, the temptation to reply with a classic of the genre. "Go on!" urged friends. "You have to! Never get a better chance!" Oh, the temptation to reply "There's a really great example here" and append a link to — well, you know where. But I didn't. (Don't know what rickrolling is?Read up.) The reasons why are embedded in understanding the new currency that we deal in — certainly in the information industries, and especially journalism.That currency is the hyperlink, a pointer to somewhere on the internet that holds some information that someone else might find useful. Like any currency, it can be debased, and lose its value. You've heard of the dollar/yen/pound/euro exchange rate, of course (and watched in amazement as they gyrate, and yet the price of American hardware and softwarenever altersfrom a $1 = £1 translation). But in the link economy, when everyone's passing around links, every person is their own central bank, determining the value of their own currency.And at the risk of sounding po-faced, I have to say that the practice of rickrolling puts you onto the slippery slope. You go into a form of debt. Once you start rickrolling people, and more importantly get a reputation for it, you're heading towards being the Zimbabwean dollar in the link economy: it doesn't matter how many you offer, people just aren't going to buy them.Doing that is dangerous just when we're putting more and more of ourselves out in the open through social networks. If your Facebook page's principal URL said "click here for more about me!" and then linked to a Rick Astley video, what would people think of you? That you liked a practical joke, perhaps. This could be useful for them to know. But they wouldn't havelearntanything about you, apart from that fact. As we become simultaneously more promiscuous in making our online personalities visible, and therefore more likely to come across people without any other context than their own representation of themselves, there's less and less time to make an impression.And if that impression is through rickrolling... well, toquote George W Bush, "fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, uh, can't get fooled again."The basic currency of blogs, Twitter, and even articles like this one remains the link. If you thought the links you followed here — or on any other part of this site — might take you to someone crooning about how they're never gonna give you up, would you click on them? Nope. Even though the "cost" is small — you can hit the back button as soon as the YouTube title comes up — the price to the rickroller is high. To those who are rickrolled, their tormentor becomes briefly the electric fence between them and the net. Without links, the web doesn't reallywork. You can'tgoanywhere. And if your fear is that the next link someone offers on will take you essentially nowhere — they get marked. On services where you can't see the full link — most URLs passed on Twitter are shortened via link-shortening services, to fit them into its 140-character limit — or where the link doesn't tell you much (as with any YouTube URL), it's all about trust. The pound or dollar in your pocket is a form of trust: you trust whoever you trade with to redeem a pound's worth of value from it.  Same with links.It's not only rickrolling, though. Linking to old news, to out-of-date news, incorrect news — they're all moves which devalue your personal or corporate currency online. That's why newspapers are generally so careful to be sure they're not leading you astray. We've known for years that trust, once eroded, is really hard to build back up. (Which is why theEvening Standardmight have a problem gaining the trust of Twitter users, for example.)And it's also the essential risk of malware and phishing: if we place too much trust in the source of a link, we can get bitten, badly. It's the equivalent of being passed a dud £20 note.Now, I know that the the problem with what I'm saying is that it sounds like a recipe for being really boring and humdrum. Links, links, links. I'm not really; the rickroll has a value, to spike peoples' inflated expectations, or remind them — wittily — of their weaknesses: when I've been caught it's because someone's said "wow, photo of [insert much-expected event or product]!" And even though I've known it's impossible, because it's a product that will never happen (the mythical Mac tablet), I've followed it. Bzzt. On the electric fence.But you know that person who tells the bad jokes again and again? Don't be that person. Rickrolling's fine for other people. And just to prove it, I've obscured all the links in this article. Now, do you trust me not to haverickrolledyou?
A significant proportion of the leftynet came grinding to a halt this week with the sacreligious news that US president-elect Barack Obamamight own a Zune. "WTF Obama?" the hordes cried, weeping into their HOPE T-shirts. "Surely he's too cool to be a Zune guy?"It was almost an amusing little subversion of Apple's Mac v PC ads, in which you might expect Obama — who's worshipped for repackaging the obvious with a bit of flash — to play an iPod, while George W Bush would act out his part as Zune: the unloved puppet of an evil empire, and frankly the sort of thing that we'd prefer to forget ever existed in the first place.Hmmm.Which leads me, in a squiggly fashion, to this week's Friday Afternoon Question. Well, it's more of a challenge, I suppose.Describe a famous person as a gadget, and make it funnyI'm hoping for some good ones. If you get stuck, feel free to stretch the definition of gadget to include anything geeky. Or the definition of "famous person".Best answer wins a picture ofObama looking cool.
What's your favourite piece of technology?MyFrancis Francis coffee machine, made by Illy, and it's very retro looking. They sell it in John Lewis and I knew that when I wanted a coffee machine I'd go with that one. It's very basic to use, no bells and whistles. And it makes the best espresso in the world. Mine is pink, which makes it even better. And she's got a name, too – Tosca, after the Puccini heroine, because she's Italian.How has it improved your life?It means that I can wake up and know that I'm, going to have a great coffee that will keep me buzzing for a few hours. I generally drink up to six espressos a day. One of the other great things about it is that if we're entertaining, we can sit around after dinner with a nice espresso. A small thing, but it's amazing how many people don't do that — it's nice to offer your guests a good coffee to round of the evening.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it about 10 minutes ago, to make a coffee — but this time I had a macchiato, with soy milk.What additional features would you add if you could?If I could make it bigger, to do four espressos at once, that would be great. Otherwise it's a bit like running a coffee bar.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Absolutely not.What one tip would you give to non-Francis Francis users?Try one, because you'll never look back. It's extremely easy to use.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Somewhere in between. I just believe that some things nowadays are too complicated and I don't have time to sit down and read the manual. I'm very hands on and like to learn about things with use.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my coffee machine.Mac or PC?PC. I love Macs, but I'm not allowed to have one because I'm married to a nerd. I'm always being told that Macs look nice but PCs are better.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played list?Mother and Son, a duet my husband and I wrote for our son, George, and me, singing about distance and separation from a child, inspired by a friend who waved BOTH her sons off to war last year. I wondered what it would be like to be parted from a child, not being there for them, and I came up with the idea of writing the duet for George and me. I do play it all the time, but thought I shouldn't be plugging my own tunes, but of course I shouldn't be so humble!! It makes me cry every time I listen to it, and it's very haunting, but at the same time uplifting.Will robots rule the world?Not in my house! I'd be getting the baseball bat out and bashing them.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A Macbook – I'd like a nice, pretty Macbook, but it will never happen…Claire Rutter's new CD,Family Album, is out now
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
You may be familiar with the tech news aggregatorTechMeme, a site that pulls together clusters of breaking stories in the hi-tech world - like Google News on steroids. (If you're still looking for a primer, Jack profiled it - along with sister siteMemeorandum- earlier this week).Yesterday its creator, Gabe Rivera, shocked some followers by announcing that hewas going to hire an editorfor the site to help improve its coverage. "Guess what?" he wrote, "Automated news doesn't quite work". The reaction was fairly mixed, but some true believers weren't happy (TechCrunch's Michael Arrington called ita slippery slopethat undermines objectivity, for example).WhileRivera was evasivewhen I asked him whether more direct human input would feed back into improving the algorithm, the question remains: since algorithms are designed by people, can any of them really be classed as objective anyway?Fortunately I had the good fortune to be speaking toJon Kleinberg, a computer science professor at Cornell andone of the world's leading expertson internet algorithms today - so I asked him about the relationship between man and machine.Here's what he had to say:"One interesting thing about designing algos in this world is that the world reacts to what you do," he told me. "Once people know they're being evaluated by an algorithm, they always try to reverse-engineer it. There's always this feedback loop which makes things very interesting.""At the simplest level, it is worth pointing out that when you read Google News there isn't a human editor deciding what to show… it's the result of an algorithm. But the distinction blurs around the edges in many ways; the simplest being that these algorithms are designed by human beings whocanchange them anddochange them regularly - and change them with an eye towards achieving certain, desired results.""You see lots of systems where there's a kind of hybrid human and algorithmic process that's producing what you see," he said. "There are cases where humans and computers have complimentary strengths and can work together."
Facebook founderMark Zuckerberghas posted a note on the Facebook blog to say that "Starting today, you'll see prompts for Facebook Connect at websites across the Internet and have the opportunity to take your Facebook profile information, friends and privacy preferences to your favorite sites."Facebook Connect les you use your Facebook identity on partner sites such as CitySearch and Digg. This saves you remembering another log-on ID and password. The added benefit is that you can opt to publish things you do on the remote site back to your friends on Facebook.This is, of course, what makes the idea attractive to remote sites. By echoing the comments you make at, for example, TechCrunch back to Facebook, you are promoting TechCrunch to your friends, who may not have heard of it. Since Facebook has more than 100 million active users, this is a powerful incentive for sites to sign up. The drawback is that if most of your users come from Facebook, you become its servant -- much like websites that get their traffic from Google.Curiously enough,Google made an announcementthis morning to say that its rival "Friend Connect is now available in beta to any webmaster looking to add a 'dash of social' to his or her site. This service lets webmasters add social features to their sites by simply copying and pasting a few snippets of code — no advanced coding or technical background required." (Did they see any Facebook Connect banners going up yesterday, or was it just a happy coincidence?)Google Friend Connect -- which has been available as a "preview release" -- lets you use your Google, Yahoo, AIM, or OpenID, and is a way of trying to get its OpenSocial platform adopted.The two systems do different things, and they're not direct rivals. Facebook Connect lets you link things to your social network on Facebook (a walled garden), while Google Friend Connect lets any web site add a social networking element. At the moment, it's not clear whether either of them is worth getting worked up about. No doubt we'll see....
America's outgoing presidentGeorge W Bush has an iPod, but president elect Barack Obama uses a Zune, according toCity Paper reporter Neal Santos, who was in the gym at the time. He says Obama "hopped on the machine next to me and broke a mean sweat while reading a copy of USA Today and listening to his Zune."Obviously this throwaway remark scandalised the iSheep, and the next day, Santos added a gloss on "Zunegate":I want to correct what I said yesterday about Obama using a Zune. I claimed that it washisZune. I don't know for sure that it was his. It could belong to one of the many Secret Service dudes that were at the gym, Michelle, or even one of his daughters.I vividly remember Obama pulling out an MP3 player with his left hand while exercising on the machine. It had a dark case protecting it and from what I saw, he was using a Zune.I've seen a Zune in action. I know what it looks likeA Zune would be a sensible choice for an exercise centre, since it has a built in FM tuner and can pick up the FM transmissions they often use. However, it could be that Obama was using a freebie: Microsoft gave away a bunch of specially decorated Zunes preloaded with content at both theDemocratic and Republican national conventions. Or it could be that he's got far too much sense to worry about which MP3 player he happens to use at any particular time.In any case, using a Zune doesn't mean Obama hasn't got iPods as well: it's not like he's too poor to buy one, and he might have received several as gifts. We've already had the Rolling Stones cover story,Inside Barack Obama's iPod, which revealed his musical tastes. Although "iPod" tends to be used as a generic for "MP3 player," the fact that he said "I've got probably 30 Dylan songs on my iPod" suggests that's probably what it was.We also know that, as well as using a BlackBerry, Obama has access to a MacBook supplied by his wife. ANewsweek storysaid:To help bridge the physical distance between father and daughters, Michelle recently bought two MacBook laptops, one for Barack and one for the kids, so they could have video chats over the Internet.This suggests he didn't pack a laptop before, but I'm sure he's happy with what his wife chose for him. And as president-elect, he clearly has more important things to worry about.Update: There are a lot of very sad people out there -- as if you didn't already know it. InObama's Zune story crashes news site, UPI.com reports that "Barack Obama's reported use of a Microsoft Zune MP3 player caused a Philadelphia newspaper's Web site to crash temporarily, an editor said." It says:Drew Lazor, the online editor for citypaper.net, said Obama's choice of a Zune over his usual iPod while working out at a gym was reported as "a rather innocuous comment in the original piece" appearing in the weekly newspaper, the Chicago Tribune reported Friday."We didn't anticipate this kind of attention," Lazor said.A piece on the Guardian site on Friday,Barack Obama uses a Microsoft Zune, was one of the day's "most read" and attracted 93 comments.And presumably in an attempt to defuse "Zunegate", aWall Street Journal blogsaid: "a spokesman puts the vicious rumor to rest. 'Not true, the President-elect uses an iPod'," as my colleague Charles Arthur noted.OK, so the economy looks like its plunging into recession and the entire planet is melting down, but Obamadoesuse an iPod, and that's what really matters, isn't it?
In an ideal world (which apparently this isn't), you'd just get games for Christmas. Well, games and a couple of CDs and DVDs. Definitely no socks, or novelty calendars, or any of those three-for-two gifts your mum buys in supermarkets.Sadly though, not all your friends and relatives are willing or indeed able to fork out fifty quid to buy you a chart-topping game. Or even twenty quid for a pre-owned 'classic'. So what should you ask for?Here are ten videogame-related treats, all of them cheaper than a copy of Gears of War 2, but still gamey-enough to keep you interested throughout Christmas day. I've provided links to the suppliers where necessary - anything else should be available from your favourite online retailer.And if you have any of your own suggestions, please provide them in the comments section, together with an appropriate link.Stylish.Uwe Boll T-shirt(Huzzah, $16 plus shipping)Most humorous videogame T-shirts are rubbish, but this one, dedicated to the infamous director of poor videogame movies, is quite good. From the website, "Only at the Uwe Boll Institute of Film can you learn such essential techniques as acquiring inexpensive rights to C-list properties, funding your projects through loopholes in German tax law that allow reward you for your movies when they bomb, and blaming your failures on "dumb audiences". The Latin translates to "Profit Through Mediocrity".A bit silly.Dreamcast tissue holder(Ekusu,available from Genki, £4.99 plus postage)Sega's tragic console is ten years old this year – or would have been if its life hadn't been cut tragically short by PlayStation 2 and a cruelly indifferent marketplace. At least now you can remember the machine in the most respectful way possible – by packing it full of tissues. Every time you have a cold, you can think of Chu Chu Rocket and Sonic Adventure.Cute.Halo 3 Kubrick set(Medicom,available from TokyoToyStore, £14.95, plus postage)Frankly, you cannot call yourself a hardcore gamer unless you have at least one Kubrick figure on or near your gaming hardware. Here's a four pack of Master Chief characters. You surely already have the Metal Gear Solid and Grand Theft Auto ranges?Thought-provoking.Unit Operations: An Approach to Videogame Criticism(Ian Bogost, MIT Press)A fascinating attempt to converge literary and technology theory into a new way of critically evaluating games. It's packed with amazing writing on titles like Half-Life and Grand Theft Auto as well as insights into how the thoughts of Plato, Badiou and McLuhan can be applied to games. Possibly not the sort of thing you want to plonk yourself down in front of the Queen's Speech with, but if you're looking to expand your thinking about games, this is a pretty good primer.Perspective-changing.This Gaming Life: Travels In Three Cities(Jim Rossignol, University of Michigan Press)Another leftfield work, this time from RockPaperShotgun writer Jim Rossignol, who uses encounters with gamers in London, Seoul, and Reyjkavik to muse on the meaning of videogames. It's partly a travelogue and partly a social study, but there is also lots of erudite stuff on key titles like Quake and World of Warcraft. In the wrong hands this could have been a pretentious mish-mash, but Rossignol is a charming bloke and, as with Bogost's book, you come away thinking about games from a new perspective.Undead.Biohazard Degneration(Sony Pictures,available via PlayAsia)It's not officially released in the UK until January, but you'll be able to get your hands on the Japanese version a few days before Christmas. This is, of course, the new animated movie based on Capcom's survival horror series. The action follows Claire Redfield and Leon kennedy as they battle a zombie outbreak at a US airport. The limited cinema run attracted mixed reviews, but, heck, it can't be any worse than the live action trilogy. (And we've all secretly watched those, haven't we? Haven't we?)Funny.Princess Bride special edition(Lions Gate Home Entertainment, £12)Any fan of RPG lore will probably already have watched Rob Reiner's witty and gently subversive fantasy movie at least a dozen times, but this new(ish) special edition should provide an excuse to enjoy it again. The two-disc set features a remastered version of the film together with featurettes, commentaries and other special edition finery. If you've already got it, there's always Labyrinth. Or Dark Crystal...Historic.Watching the Watchmen(Titan Books, £25)Arriving as a movie and, bizarrely, an epidsodic videogame next year, it's doubtful either will live up to Alan Moore and Dave Gibbons' epoch-shattering comic book series, later re-issued as one of the best-selling graphic novels of all time. In this companion book, Gibbons describes the genesis of the project, providing original character art and sketches, as well as alternative covers. Something to pore over while the rest of the family are making idiots of themselves with Wii Fit.EnthrallingThe King of Kong: A Fistful of Quarters(Revolver Entertainment, £16)Absolutely fascinating documentary following newcomer Steve Wiebe as he attempts to beat the Donkey Kong score set by uber gamer Billy Mitchell twenty years earlier. The rivalry between the two is utterly transfixing, providing a story that's as much about masculine obsession and folly as it is about a plumber who jumps over barrels.Brilliant.Crystal Castles – Crystal Castles CD(Different Recordings, £10)I had to slip this in because I bloody love it. Ethan Khan and Alice Glass have crafted a sound that resembles a SNES being submerged in an acid bath while running Zombies Ate My Neighbours. It is the acceptable face of chiptune noise (though the bandaren't too popularwith 'the scene') and listening to Courtship Dating really loud while playing Gears of War 2 is obscenely uplifting. Oh and ask for the M83 album while you're at it.
Two years ago it was barely known outside themobile phoneindustry — but now Taiwanese phone manufacturer HTC is trying to underline its mainstream credentials by purchasing a leading industrial design company.San Francisco-based One &amp; Co — which has clients including Nike, and snowboarding company K2 — will become part of the Taipei-based technology in an undisclosed deal aimed making products which are more palatable for mainstream shoppers."Our company has built a very good competency as a manufacturer, building hardware," said Horace Luke, HTC's chief innovation officer. "However there was never been a product design approach, where products fit a lifestyle."One &amp; Co's 17 employees will continue to work for external clients in the technology industry and beyond, but over time plan to bring more of their time and expertise to HTC."This will help us be more in sync with HTC's overall business objectives," said Scott Croyle, a partner at One &amp; Co. "While all the engineers are talking about what specs they want to deliver, we can talk about what consumers are going to want in two years."Industry observers welcomed the move, suggesting that it could underscore the company's recent successes and help it graduate to become one of the world's leading phone manufacturers — alongside brands like Nokia, Samsung and BlackBerry."I think this is a great move for them,"said Michael Gartenberg, vice president of Jupiter Research New York . "It's recognition on their part that these aren't just business or enterprise devices any more, these are devices bought by people."Until recently HTC was best known for producing white-labelled handsets that were popular with business users, such as the O2 XDA. But after making a breakthrough with customers over the past two years, it is now one of the major players in the lucrative smartphone category."To some extent they have gone from being the brand behind the brand to building their own brand," said Gartenberg. "They're increasing resources in the areas that matter most to consumers."Mobile phone companies have become keenly aware of the impact that good design can have on their products and images. Apple's explosive entry into the phone market has made an impression with many executives.In the 18 months since Apple's iPhone first went on sale, it has sold more than 12m units — and recent figures that it is now the most popular single model of handset in the US, accounting for more than 16% of sales in the lucrative smartphone market.Luke, a former creative director of Microsoft's Windows Mobile division, said that the acquisition would bring more resources to the development of new products, but that it would not produce immediate results."We're more patient than that," he told the Guardian. "We're taking steps towards great talent, better company, better culture. I think you see this as a good signal that we're increasing our research and development spending. I think it's time to go big or go home. It's the right time for us."
Bob's Blog, written by Microsoft "Architect Evangelist" Bob Familiar, says programmers who "attend an upcoming MSDN Developer Conference … will receive a Windows 7 Beta DVD."The fact that conferences start in Houston on December 9 does not necessarily mean Microsoft will start handing out betas next week. As the blog post says: "No date has been announced for the Windows 7 Beta. If you attend an MDC event we will make sure you receive a Windows 7 Beta DVD when it is available." However, there are seven conferences in January, in cities such as Chicago, Dallas, and New York, and it will be a surprise if Windows 7 beta DVDs are not handed out at those.Now, I'd normally expect a Windows beta to last about a year. If you have three four-month blocks you can do beta 1 (for developers and OEMs), beta 2 (for customers), and then the release candidates (RC1/2/3). A beta can, of course, be done in 9 months, and it can take 18 months. However, if it takes 9 months, that puts Windows 7 on track for RTM (release to manufacturing) in October.This would be good for Microsoft because it would enable PC manufacturers to get Windows 7 machines on the shelves for Christmas. That's something it didn't manage with Vista, which should have gone RTM in June or July, but actually arrived in November. This meant Microsoft had to delay the public launch until after Christmas, to stop Dell and others (who could ship PCs direct, before Christmas) from having an advantage over HP and others (who couldn't ship to retailers before Christmas). That's not something Microsoft will want to do again.So, assuming that nothing terrible happens, it's reasonable to expect Windows 7 to appear on PCs next November. However, since Windows 7 has so much in common with Vista, the beta periods could be shorter, and August or September would be possible … but January 2010 would still be a reasonable date, given a traditional beta schedule.Of course, if Microsoft does ship Windows 7 beta 1 in the next week or so, you can pull all my speculative dates forward by one month.Meanwhile, programmers who are planning to go to one of theDeveloper Network conferencescan expect sessions on Windows Azure cloud computing ("Create applications that seamlessly bridge the gaps between PC, Web, and phone"), Live Mesh, Multi-Touch Application Development, and Silverlight 2, among other things. There's also An Introduction to Microsoft F#, which is Microsoft's new typed functional programming language for the .Net Framework. It's similar to Inria's Objective CAML or OCaml.If you're into functional programming, you candownload a preview version of F#.
Nokia has taken a massive gamble by unveiling its strongest competitor to high-end touchscreen phones such as the iPhone and G1, many months ahead of its actual availability in stores.The N97, which has a large touchscreen and a slide-out qwerty keyboard, is the latest in Nokia's N series which includes the N95, launched two years ago, that has already sold over 15m.But despite being unveiled at Nokia World in Barcelona this week, it will not actually be released until next spring at the earliest and it will be preceded by Nokia's first full touchscreen device, the 5800 XpressMusic phone.The N97, however, is aimed at the very top of the so-called smartphone market which is now dominated by Apple's iPhone. It has a 5 megapixel camera and 32GB of internal memory, a move that seems deliberately designed to see-off the threat of a new higher capacity iPhone which is expected to appear in the new year.In fact, as far as its form-factor is concerned the N97 is actually closest to Sony Ericsson's Xperia X1. That device, however, uses Windows Mobile software whereas the N97 is based on software from UK-based Symbian.Nokia acquired control of Symbian from its partners, including Sony Ericsson and Panasonic, earlier this year and announced plans to make its software free. The move to so-called open source was designed to see off the competitive threat of Google, whose Android software powers the G1 and is also available free of charge to anyone who wants to use it.The G1, made by HTC, is just the first Android phone to hit the streets. LG and Samsung are set to unveil their first Android phones in the first quarter of next year and analysts believe the announcement of the N97 months before it is actually available is designed to increase the pressure on these manufacturer?s to produce world-class handsets.The G1, for instance, has been widely applauded as a good first attempt at a phone using Android but has not had anything like the sales success of the iPhone."This is going to be competing with devices we have not seen yet," said Ben Wood, director of research at industry experts CCS Insight. "Nokia is the market leader and it is making a very bold move by releasing details of this handset many months in advance."But he said the move has the potential to seriously backfire on the Finnish company. "The pace of change in this industry is such that ... a device that looks innovative today may not look so good in a few month's time."Others in the industry also drew attention to the price of the handset — 550 euros (£478) — which is steep at a time when mobile phone companies are looking to reduce their costs in the face of intense competition and a worsening economic climate. It is the operators who will subsidise the cost of the phone for their customers — making it free to anyone willing to sign up to a lengthy contract — in the hope that it will attract users.The Xperia X1, for instance, is available free on Vodafone on contracts from £40 a month.The N97 goes further than some other recent touchscreen devices in the integration of social networking services, linking location with status so that users can tell their "friends" where they are. It also makes extensive use of the Ovi suite of services which has put Nokia into conflict with some of the mobile phone operators who feel it is moving too close to their patch by providing services as well as hardware.The N97 links with Ovi to provide both email and instant messaging compatability with Yahoo Mail, Yahoo Messenger, Windows Live Hotmail, Gmail, Google Talk and AOL Mail.• This article was amended on Friday December 5 2008. In the article above we used the wrong excange rate for converting euros into the sterling equivalent. 550 euros is £478 not £369. This has been amended.
Ofcom, the independent regulator, says: "A newCode of Practicethrough which internet service providers (ISPs) will give customers a true picture of likely broadband speeds at the point of sale comes into force tomorrow" (December 5). The code is voluntary, but a lot of ISPs have signed up. Ofcom says the code will require ISPs to:- provide consumers at the point of sale with an accurate estimate of the maximum speed that their line can support;- explain clearly and simply how technical factors may slow down speeds and giving help and advice to consumers to improve the situation at home;- offer an alternative package (if there is one) without any penalties, if the actual speed is a lot lower than the original estimate; and- explain fair usage policies clearly and alert consumers when they have been breached.Speed is a tricky issue, because ADSL+ never delivers the "headline speed," the maximum speed depends on things like the distance from the exchange, and the actual speed depends on things like traffic congestion. The internet does not provide any "quality of service" mechanism, it's just a crude "best efforts" system, so results cannot be guaranteed. Nevertheless, Ofcom says ISPs must:Ensure that the access line speed information provided within the sales process is a single number rounded to the nearest Mbps (or ½ Mbps for speed estimates below 4Mbps). The ISP should avoid providing the customer with a range such as eg 0 to 8Mbps. The ISP should highlight that this line speed is only an estimate and explain which factors will influence actual line speed post-activation of the service, and if a customer subsequently gets an access line speed which is below the initial estimate, this will not necessarily mean that there is a fault on the line.Further:Where ISPs apply traffic management and shaping policies, they should publish on their website, in a clear and easily accessible form, information on the restrictions applied. This should include the types of applications, services and protocols that are affected and specific information on peak traffic periods.Basically, ISPs will have to have a robust line measurement system, and provide some sort of usage measurement system. Also, since abusive things like BitTorrent file sharing mean ISPs have to use "traffic shaping" (ie line throttling) to maintain services for everyone, this will need to be disclosed, and I think it should be written into "fair use" agreements.Ofcom will be using some "mystery shoppers" to check up on ISPs, and says Ofcom it will do a "comprehensive broadband speed survey to identify actual broadband performance across the country and its variation from advertised headline speeds and maximum line speeds".
"Worldwide smartphone sales to end-users totalled 36.5 million units in the third quarter of 2008, an 11.5% increase from the same period in 2007," says Gartner, which has just published its preliminary numbers. "Nokia maintained its No 1 position with 42.4% market share, but for the first time it recorded a decline in sales of 3% year-on-year." Nokia's market share dropped by 6.3 percentage points to 42.4%.In second place, sales of Research In Motion's BlackBerry smartphones increased by 81.7%, with a market share of 15.9%. Sales of Apple iPhones grew by 327.5%, as it took third place with a market share of 12.9%. Gartner says:Apple's shipments into the channel during the third quarter of 2008 approached 7 million units. However, Apple built up around 2 million units of inventory and Gartner's sales unit estimate reflects this.Gartner placed HTC fourth with a 4.5% market share, but that's only for HTC-brand devices. The ones sold under operator brand names -- which is most of them -- were counted under their brand names in the "Others" category.Nokia's decline in the smartphone market meant Symbian's market share slumped from 63.1% to 49.8% -- the first time it has been below 50%. Symbian was followed by RIM (15.9%) and Mac OS X (12.9%). Microsoft's Windows Mobile suffered a 3% sales decline, dropping it to fourth place with 11.1%.Linux also declined, losing 1.6 percentage points to 7.2%, while Palm OS sales more than doubled to reach 2.1%. Sales of Android-based "Googlephones" are expected to change this.Gartner says:On a regional level, North America was the fastest growing market, with a 68% increase in the third quarter of 2008. RIM and Apple did particularly well in the region with both vendors accounting for more than 70% of the smartphone market in the third quarter of 2008. Apple regained second position behind RIM with 25.4% market share. Smartphone sales in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) increased 14% year-on-year. The region saw Nokia's share decline nearly 8 percentage points in the third quarter of 2008 but still maintaining its leading position and saw Apple gain the No 2 spot with 15.6% share, moving in front of HTC and RIM.
Outreach time, folks: I'm trying to track down a comprehensive list ofBritish indie and casual games developersbut just can't seem to find any leads. I was wondering if anyone out there in reader-land is a casual developer him or herself or knows of such a resource. If you do, please do let me know either in the comments below or send to gamesblog+at+gmail.com.Many many thanks in advance!
Spaceship! cover art by Ed SluddenAfter extensive debating and thorough vetting, the gamesblog'sSpaceship!team would like to announce that first place in theCover Art competitionisEd Sludden.Spaceship! is our community-developed game, a text adventure that places the player in the role of a hapless captain with a simple objective: fix his ship or die. Play ithere!Other commendable entries came in from Geo Ashton and from Richard Perrin. All of our winners receive a copy ofMirror's Edgefor the Xbox 360 or PlayStation3. Congratulations and thanks to everyone who entered!Check out all the winning entrieshere.Meanwhile, Spaceship!'stesting phasecontinues and the launch is set for next Wednesday atBrighton's £5 Appevent, where indie developers come along and show off their free-to-cheap projects. This month, Spaceship! developer Barry Tucker and I are giving a talk, followed by a selection of quick and dirty game-related presentations on such topics as varied as:1. Lightsaber mobile phone duelling by Marko (Lastminute.com Labs)2. Fighting Mini-sumo robots byEmily3. In-development 3D iPhone game + backstory by Dominic4. Flash 3D Snow and Xmas games by Seb (PluginMedia)5. Eye-controlled Pong by Ben Rubinstein (CogApp)Eye-controlled Pong?! Wowee! Nice agenda, Ian!There's still more work to be done! Get your name on the credits bytesting the game, which you can do here. Don't forget to save a transcript by typing 'transcript' into the game prompt and 'quit' when you're done. Then send your thoughts to us at wikicoders +at+ googlemail.com. Thanks!
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Yahoo has had had its fair share of problems recently, but it seems Jerry Yang's reign has addled more than just the company's share price.According to Yahoo Buzz'sYear in Review, the most searched-for term on Yahoo this year was Britney Spears (after all the NSFW searches, naturally).Britney? Well, given her ups and downs over the past year I can handle that - even if Wired's Epicenter blog uses Spears' popularity with Yahoo users as the basis for adrawn out metaphorabout how the company's stuck in the past.But here's my question: if Britney is overall top of the pops, why isAngelina Jolieranked as #1influential women chart? At first I thought it was the "influential" bit, since the women's list has a bunch of politicians and journalists on it. But hey, Jolie's a troubled Hollywood star who ranks highly largely for her celeb status and lips so large they were possiblystung by a swarm of crack-maddened psycho bees.I know times are pretty confusing in Sunnyvale, but things have clearly gone too far if they're now randomly reassigning genders in their spare time.
Here's a strange little tale: China isforcing internet cafes to adopt the country's operating system of choice- a Linux distro known asRed Flag. According to our report, the move is being painted as an attempt to stop cafes using unlicensed software - but has raised questions about possible snooping.The new rules went into effect on November 5 and are aimed at cracking down on pirated software, said Hu Shenghua, a spokesman for the culture bureau in the city of Nanchang, Jiangxi province. Internet cafe operators are required to replace unlicensed software with legitimate copies of either Microsoft Windows or China's Red Flag Linux operating system, while paying a fee, he said.ThisRadio Free Asia report(which is referred to in the other story) also quotes cafe owners who said that they are being forced to install Red Flag even if they're running legit copies of Windows."Our district cultural management authorities came and installed the new Red Flag Linux in all of our 13 Internet cafes," one cafe worker said."It happened around Nov. 20, and we all paid the 5,000 yuan installation fee, even though we used to use legally purchased Windows XP. But I don't think this new system is as good as the old one."Red Flag - the Chinese equivalent to Red Hat - has long been thechoice of officials in Beijing, but what's in it for the government? Well, among other things a major shareholder of RF is an investment arm of China's Ministry of Information. Yes, we know that government organisations investing in technologyhardly unusual, but still... it does throw up something of (ahem) a red flag.Sorry.
Now I'll Laugh Different...ly?The Simpsons in the US last weekend had a go at Apple, in the guise of "Map- ple". To quote "Steve Mobs": "I know our posters say 'Think Differently', but our real slogan is 'no refunds'." (Other versions of this video have been removed - hence the advert for a service you can't get in the UK at the beginning. And end.)Run like the wind — only fasterCan a wind-powered machine travel downwind faster than the wind? Logically and theoretically, no — it would imply extra energy being created somewhere. So what's with these videos?Star Trek v Star Wars: who wins?Captain Jean-Luc Picard comes up against that bunch led by Darth Vader in a showdown. And in the final, the winner gets to fight Captain James T Kirk. Any bets?Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us in the comments!
I need to replace my old desktop PC, which runs Windows 2000. I'd prefer to find something economical with Windows XP Professional installed, but all the good deals seem to come with Vista, and that it is about to be overtaken by the new Windows system.Pat WayVista got off to a bad start, but judging by the two systems we have at home, it's fine now. Vista has a nicer interface, better bundled applications, and is much more secure than XP. It also needs more memory (2GB instead of 1GB), but memory is cheap. XP users might prefer to stick with what they know, but since you're moving from Windows 2000, you might as well skip XP altogether. Windows 7 is based on Vista and probably won't appear until late next year.Have a look at the Dell Vostro 220 -- the no-frills line, with no preinstalled crapware -- and the Inspiron 530, which is the same sort of thing for consumers. Get a printout of the specification you want, and the price, to compare with the various special offers from retailers, including supermarkets. Dell is usually good value, especially if you use a code from one of its printed catalogues, but ready-built machines decline in value like perishable goods. Retailers won't want to get stuck with this year's models, and most will cut prices to shift them.
My eight-year-old son has demolished QBasic for Dummies and wishes to learn other languages. He's very competent with the PC environment and, of course, wants to be a games coder.Gary WaltonGames coders are usually expected to know the C and C++ languages, so for free C++ tools, clickhere. However, there is much more to games development than coding. He could try Microsoft's freeVisual C++ Express Editionand GDK (Game Developers Kit), or the higher-levelXNA Game Studio 3.0, which is free for students, hobbyists, and independent games developers. This can also be used to develop games for the Xbox 360 if you subscribe to the XNA Creators Club. You also have to install Visual Studio 2008 Express, which is a free version of Microsoft's £700 professional software development system.
The Windows Disk Cleanup wizard is mind-numbingly slow, so I often run it while defragging my hard disk. Does this compromise the efficiency of my disk defrag?Chris PainterThe Windows Disk Cleanup wizard is not just slow, it can do things that people will come to regret, such as removing Windows components and programs that you are not using, removing restore points, deleting downloaded program files, etc. Analysing your whole system takes ages, and any deletions just make more work for a defrag routine that isn't all that good at the best of times. It's better to use CCleaner fromccleaner.comto do a cleanup. This is quicker and includes a registry cleaner, but it must still be used with care. If you need to defragment the hard driver, start defrag before going out, or going to bed.
My partner is a journalist and has tasked me with finding her a digital device for recording interviews and also telephone calls. I haven't yet found something that can do both. Also, she is a Mac user and they all seem to be PC-based.Neil TweddleI use a Roland Edirol R-09HR (about £250). It records to WAV or MP3 and saves files on an SD card, so they can be copied to any computer. I can record phone calls using a wall socket breakout lead plugged into the line-in port. The Edirol can record 24bit/96kHz linear PCM, which is twice the resolution of an audio CD, so it's also good for recording music and podcasts. Check theSolid State Soundwebsite for alternative devices. As long as it records to a memory card, you only need a Mac-compatible USB card reader.Backchat: Graham Marks says: "Neil could do worse than try any of the Olympus digital voice recorders. I have a WS-310M. It's stereo, is Mac-compatible, and downloads WAV files via an integral USB. It's £70 on Amazon. There are also some useful comments below, where it is revealed that I hadn't noticed that my Edirol R-09HR has a mini-USB port. D'oh.
In the past two weeks, my XP Pro machine seems to have been hijacked by a process taking between 90% and 99% of the CPU. It's ciscv.exe - the Windows Indexing Service. I can turn it off, but is there any way of stopping this process permanently?Andrew FoskerGo to Start, select Run, type services.msc and click OK. Look for Indexing Service in the resulting list, right-click it, and select Properties. Find the box called "Start-up type" and change the drop-down menu to Disabled. A quicker way is to download and double click a file fromKelly's Korner, which will change your registry.
Now I'll Laugh Different...ly?The Simpsons in the US last weekend had a go at Apple, in the guise of "Mapple". To quote "Steve Mobs": "I know our posters say 'Think Differently', but our real slogan is 'no refunds'."Run like the wind - only fasterCan a wind-powered machine travel downwind faster than the wind? Logically and theoretically, no - it would imply extra energy being created somewhere. So what's with these videos?Star Trek v Star Wars: who winsJean-Luc Picard comes up against that bunch led by Darth Vader in a showdown. Winner to fight James T Kirk.• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Technology and size go hand in hand, it seems: as one advances the other reduces. Such is the case with the Aiptek Pocket Cinema V10, a mobile projector that incorporates a 3-in-1 card reader, 1GB of internal storage and multimedia player compatibility into a device smaller than the dinkiest notebook PC. It's about the same price, too: &pound;299.95.Using a white LED light source and LCoS (Liquid Crystal on Silicon) display, the Pocket Cinema V10 can project up to a 127cm (diagonal) image - that's 100cm by 75cm - and a display range of between 25cm and 180cm. The 10 lumens brightness figure does highlight the fact this isn't the brightest of projectors; entry-level home/business models easily achieve 2,500 lumens. (A 100W bulb puts out about 1,300 to 1,700 lumens, although it's hard to compare different types of light sources like this.) Basically, for decent viewing you'll need as near to total blackout as possible.The VGA (640x480) resolution, 4:3 aspect ratio and paltry 0.5W built-in speaker aren't particularly sparkling either (though there is an audio output - and video too, which we'll come to), but there's good file type support (JPEG, MP3, AVI, ASF, DAT, MOV, M4V, MPEG, RealMedia and WMV). And how many projectors can you carry around in your coat pocket?A USB socket enables connection to a PC or Mac, giving options to load videos and photos. You can transfer movies, stills and MP3s to the built-in flash memory, or simply insert cards direct from your camera or camcorder.With its AV input, Aiptek boasts that the Pocket Cinema has iPod, games console and mobile phone connectivity. Not so fast, though. For instance, with an iPod you will need the appropriate TV-out connector - not just a 3.5mm lead from the headphone output - while for other AV equipment, an RCA adapter is required.The V10 does have a practical business use, as a presentation tool. While it can't run Microsoft Office, it can display PowerPoint documents. Just re-save your presentation as a JPeg, though animations and links won't work. There is a big difference to be enjoyed between carrying this 100g device to a meeting rather than your usual laptop - as long as you can make the room dark enough. Alternatively, you could just save the presentation and output it to a decent projector using the V10's AV output.With a reasonable battery life, the Pocket Cinema is both versatile and portable, but its technical limitations will hinder its progress. For the time being, size doesn't matter - technology does.Pros:Compact; USB connection; versatileCons:Not bright; poor video quality; AV connectivityaiptek.eu
Snapping at heelsWe are a Swiss small business which has received just such a threatening, letter from Getty for alleged misuse of some inconsequential graphic and asking us to pay &pound;1,500 (Is a picture really worth &pound;1,000?, November 27). We were wondering if we should just pay as we have had no experience of such matters. We won't pay now as the demands are totally unreasonable. Thanks again.Jim RomagueraZurich, SwitzerlandIn our case the original demand was for over &euro;1,770 - for an image of 180x90 pixels used on a website that gets a few tens or hundreds of hits per month! Getty Images is not an easy company to deal with. In our case, the correspondence was in German, written from a London address, posted in the US and the bank account we were supposed to send the money to was in Ireland. Why did they write in German when the website was completely in English?keyscorner.comAnd one wonders why a lot of photographers are still afraid on the internet.1854.euGoogle's cold comfortIf Google were to sell its information to drug companies, would we end up getting emails and/or phone calls asking us if we have flu or know someone who has, and if so, would we like to buy this wonder drug (Read me first, November 27)?jherring.wordpress.comStorm frontIn Charles Arthur's Technophile column (November 27) he says that the Storm has the BlackBerry "two letters per key" keyboard, but the ad for the phone on page 19 of the main newspaper today states that it has a full Qwerty keyboard. Is Charles wrong or is the ad misleading? [It's only Qwerty when held sideways - Tech. Ed]Colin RobertsonOxfordI've had a Storm for a week now and I really don't think the review does it justice. Touchscreen - OK, that guy doesn't like the click screen and fair enough. What I dislike is that in effect he is saying "I don't like the screen, therefore nobody else will". I can understand that Charles doesn't like the Storm, but I don't think the review presented a rounded opinion on the device.Tom Woodfordevia emailElegant geeksAn innovative approach which made me shout for joy (Antispam weapon recaptures lost text, November 27). How elegant is that? Who says IT people can't be creative?!itasitis.wordpress.comReport fingeredThis article would have done the author some credit if it had bothered to look more critically at the Unisys report instead of simply taking it at face value (Identity theft fears prompt biometric thumbs up, November 27). The reports produced by Unisys are designed to encourage uptake of the services provided by Unisys.Alisdair LairdBeverleyIn the pinkAs a very regular reader of FT Online, I found the redesign wonderful: it is very much clearer to read and navigate (Read me first, November 20). It's about whether the front page of a complex website should be clearly laid out and well structured, and on both counts this redesign works extremely well.Sol PicciottoLeamington SpaOn the decksThe Guardian gadget offer fills the whole back page of today's Technology Guardian (November 27). We're offered a USB turntable to digitise our vinyl. Minimum system requirements PCs only. So why is it connected to a MacBook Pro?Paul LaxtonNew Brighton• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk. Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
The Treasury's best guess is &pound;115m - but it is a guess, and many analysts and businesses think it will be rather more. Before Alistair Darling, the chancellor, announced the cut of 2.5 percentage points in VAT as part of thePre-Budget Report, the Treasury calculated that UK business as a whole would have to spend &pound;300m over two years to cope with the change, against a predicted boost to the economy of &pound;12.4bn over 13 months.Out of that total cost, the Treasury confessed it had little idea of the actual expense of modifying software to handle the change. Civil servants expect small businesses to spend just &pound;10 on changes, while larger businesses might fork out &pound;500. "But these are no more than assumptions," the department admits. And business groups such as the British Retail Consortium said they had no estimates of the likely expense of implementing the change.Although accounting software should cope easily with a rate change, some custom systems will have the 17.5% rate baked into the code, which will make changes much more complex. "Anyone whose software does that has to take their ire out on the software supplier, not the government," says David Mitchell at analyst Ovum.Many big businesses have IT systems that talk to their counterparts at suppliers and customers. "Testing software changes across those systems is one of the trickier parts of the job," says Mitchell. "I imagine there will be some embarrassing failures over the next few weeks."Mitchell reckons that testing could add 15% - more than &pound;20m overall - to the Treasury's estimate. That does not include the cost of repairing the damage from any mistakes.Alex Bainbridge, managing director of Travel UCD, a small e-commerce company, scoffs at the idea that the changes would cost his business just &pound;10. His business has to update software that deals with an obscure part of the VAT regime called the Tour Operators Margin Scheme, which has complex rules that are affected by the rate cut.Large and small businesses alike have made quick alterations to their online systems in the hope they can go back and make changes later. Argos and the small online retailer Blue World Gardener alike calculate the reduction at the checkout. Blue World Gardener director Keith Watson says: "We are passing the rate cut on, but not in a particularly elegant way." Later on, companies like Blue World will have to go through their online systems and change the prices one by one. Re-pricing alone will cost businesses &pound;95m, according to the Treasury.Still, the silver lining is that all this tweaking should mean that at least some programmers and IT departments can be sure of keeping their jobs, if only to stop the businesses that employ them from falling foul of HM Revenue and Customs when their VAT bills fall due.And how about the HMRC? It says changing its own systems will have "negligible" cost, because they are already set up to cope with all sorts of VAT levels.
XP or Vista?I need to replace my old desktop PC, which runs Windows 2000. I'd prefer to find something economical with Windows XP Professional installed, but all the good deals seem to come with Vista, and that it is about to be overtaken by the new Windows system.Pat WayJS:Vista got off to a bad start, but judging by the two systems we have at home, it's fine now. Vista has a nicer interface, better bundled applications, and is much more secure than XP. It also needs more memory (2GB instead of 1GB), but memory is cheap. XP users might prefer to stick with what they know, but since you're moving from Windows 2000, you might as well skip XP altogether. Windows 7 is based on Vista and probably won't appear until late next year.Have a look at the Dell Vostro 220 - the no-frills line, with no preinstalled crapware - and the Inspiron 530, which is the same sort of thing for consumers. Get a printout of the specification you want, and the price, to compare with the various special offers from retailers, including supermarkets. Dell is usually good value, especially if you use a code from one of its printed catalogues, but ready-built machines decline in value like perishable goods. Retailers won't want to get stuck with this year's models, and most will cut prices to shift them.Games writerMy eight-year-old son has demolished QBasic for Dummies and wishes to learn other languages. He's very competent with the PC environment and, of course, wants to be a games coder.Gary WaltonJS:Games coders are usually expected to know the C and C++ languages, so for free C++ tools, clickhere. However, there is much more to games development than coding. He could tryMicrosoft's free Visual C++ Express Editionand GDK (Game Developers Kit), or the higher-levelXNA Game Studio 3.0, which is free for students, hobbyists, and independent games developers. This can also be used to develop games for the Xbox 360 if you subscribe to the XNA Creators Club. You also have to install Visual Studio 2008 Express.Cleaning WindowsThe Windows Disk Cleanup wizard is mind-numbingly slow, so I often run it while defragging my hard disk. Does this compromise the efficiency of my disk defrag?Chris PainterJS:The Windows Disk Cleanup wizard is not just slow, it can do things that people will come to regret, such as removing Windows components and programs that you are not using, removing restore points, deleting downloaded program files, etc. Analysing your whole system takes ages, and any deletions just make more work for a defrag routine that isn't all that good at the best of times. It's better to use CCleaner from ccleaner.com to do a cleanup. This is quicker and includes a registry cleaner, but it must still be used with care. If you need to defragment the hard driver, start defrag before going out, or going to bed.Portable recordingMy partner is a journalist and has tasked me with finding her a digital device for recording interviews and also telephone calls. I haven't yet found something that can do both. Also, she is a Mac user and they all seem to be PC-based.Neil TweddleJS:I use a Roland Edirol R-09HR (about &pound;250). It records to WAV or MP3 and saves files on an SD card, so they can be copied to any computer. I can record phone calls using a wall socket breakout lead plugged into the line-in port. The Edirol can record 24bit/96kHz linear PCM, which is twice the resolutionof an audio CD, so it's also good for recording music and podcasts. Check theSolid State Sound websitefor alternative devices. As long as it records to a memory card, you only need a Mac-compatible USB card reader.Windows IndexingIn the past two weeks, my XP Pro machine seems to have been hijacked by a process taking between 90% and 99% of the CPU. It's ciscv.exe - the Windows Indexing Service. I can turn it off, but is there any way of stopping this process permanently?Andrew FoskerJS:Go to Start, select Run, type services.msc and click OK. Look for Indexing Service in the resulting list, right-click it, and select Properties. Find the box called "Start-up type" and change the drop-down menu to Disabled. A quicker way is to download and double click a file fromKelly's Korner, which will change your registry.Backchat• Alistair Kilgour points out that a MacBook with 2GB of memory and a 120GB hard drive does not cost &pound;719 direct from Apple UK, as I said a few weeks ago: "Apple charges an additional &pound;50 to upgrade the memory to 2GB." The error was introduced at the editing stage. Mac OS X 10.5 will run in 1GB, but I don't recommend it, and Crucial sells 4GB for roughly &pound;50.• William Van der Kloot found the Windows Magnifier appearing unbidden on Windows XP. On the Ask Jack blog, Nick suggested he might be using a Microsoft Mouse with a button that invokes the Magnifier. He adds: "If you never want to use the feature, go to mouse control in the Control Panel, and disable the button," or assign it adifferent function.• Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.ukguardian.co.uk/askjack
Let me take you away from all this. To a land where the PC has barely dared to tread, and web 1.0, let alone web 2.0, holds little sway. Where information technology means printed paper - great boxfiles of A4 paper. Where the most visibly thriving business is an all-night photocopy shop, half open to the street.No, we're not in central Asia, but in London WC2. Here, between the wired hubs of Soho and the City, the dominant industry is the law - more specifically, the ancient inns that encircle the Royal Courts of Justice. It's a place where the clich&eacute;s of hidebound British conservatism suddenly ring true.In part, of course, the antique technology is a fa&ccedil;ade, like the Queen Anne frontage on some of the most modern legal chambers. Lawyers are quite capable of using IT when it suits them. The London Inns of Court are the most photogenic part of our legal estate, but not representative of a multibillion-pound industry covering everything from tweed-jacketed country solicitors to slick teams of international dealmakers.Yet these diverse branches of the ancient profession of law have one thing in common: they're doomed. So says Richard Susskind, IT adviser to the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, who reckons that in a few decades, lawyers could be as forgotten as the medieval professions of mercers and cordwainers are today. People will still need legal advice - but they won't be turning to lawyers to provide it.The catalyst, of course, is technology. In part, this is the old idea of "disintermediation" we heard so much of in the 1990s - that the web would make many kinds of knowledge workers, including journalists, redundant by connecting consumers directly to the information they need. But this might be the first time it has been applied so far up the value chain. It will also surprise many industry analysts, who can point out that the net impact of IT on lawyers has so far been to generate vast amounts of new business for them.In his book, The End of Lawyers?, Susskind explores the idea that much highly paid legal work is susceptible to decomposing into simple tasks which can be automated, commoditised and even crowdsourced. And that as the natural price for digital products in a competitive market is zero, the legal profession's lucrative business model will be doomed.However, automating the legal profession creates opportunities as well as challenges, particularly in serving citizens who today have little access to the machinery of law. Susskind makes a powerful case for the government to invest in an online legal advice service something along the lines of NHS Direct - a place where ordinary people can ask questions and receive authoritative but non-intimidating guidance. The government also gets a kicking for its tardiness in modernising the "shamefully antiquated" technology of our courts.So is the legal profession doomed? Much as we may enjoy the prospect, the book doesn't quite say so. Susskind (an old friend of this column through his previous role as head of the Advisory Panel on Public Sector Information) is smart enough to hedge his bets with that question mark in his title.Susskind also recognises that humans are ingenious at customising standard products, slapping high price tags on them and finding people ready to part with their money. Purveyors of bespoke legal services will probably be around for as long as wealthy people have grievances with each other - which, a walk around London WC2 reminds you, may be a very long time indeed.
