As promised, Hosea (Ze) Frankposted his final show yesterday, after a year of being the best netcaster on the planet. It's mostly a song....The final shows were also posted with Dewar's sponsorship on Blip.tv athttp://zefrank.blip.tv/, and this is one place to explore the back catalogue. (Blip.tv supports theDemocracy Player.)TheBlip.tv press releasesays:Later in 2007, Ze intends to produce and star in other Web and video projects, all of which will have a home on blip.tv. In addition, blip.tv will incorporate Frank's unique "Gimme some Candy" program as part of blip.tv's services to videobloggers. A unique and highly successful sponsorship concept, Gimme Some Candy allows any viewer of a show to purchase space alongside upcoming videos to run personal messages.Ze Frank also appeared atTED 2004(Recorded February 2004 in Monterey, CA), which is also atGoogle Video.
Well, has it? In September 2005 Alice Taylor wroteNot quite love at first sightabout her thoughts on Sony's then-new PlayStation Portable (PSP). The article captures that flush of excitement that anyone got from seeing the PSP for the first time (remember?), and ended full with optimism:This is just the beginning of a handheld revolution. The PSP is screaming for a decent media manager, and for television shows to be legal loads. It needs lots of games, a touchscreen, and guaranteed free Wi-Fi. A way to rip my DVDs and load them without breaking the law or having to fiddle about with special applications and rippers would be nice. I've already paid for Lord of the Rings (twice, as it happens - I lost the first one) and I don't want to buy it on UMD now, no way.A 10GB chip, plus podcasting and the equivalent for audio visual media is essential, too - I want to dock it and have it magically fill with entertaining material that matches my tastes, and is delivered to me by my favourite sites. And an always-on internet connection with a PSP-friendly copy of World of Warcraft for on-the-road questing would be welcome.The PSP offers enough to make you hungry for more and, as a multimedia device, it's a sleek and shiny triumph. But it doesn't quite satisfy as it is. Maybe I'm just greedy - after all, good apps come to those who wait.But have they? Hollywood studios other than Sony have binned the UMD format for films. Are you still using your PSP, and are you using it for anything other than games? Do you load your TV programs onto it for the commute in? Do you watch films on it? Is the Wi-Fi delighting you, or just draining the battery? Like Frasier, we're listening.
Battlestations MidwayX Box 360Eidos, &pound;49.99An initial not-another-second-world-war-game reaction to Battlestations Midway, which is in reality yet another game that gets you to rebuff the German and Japanese menace, is mitigated by the less usual mix of action and strategy. Switching between air and naval units you split your time between gunnery and navigating via the overhead tactical map. Although engaging, the action is hampered by wobbly aiming and awkward flight controls as well as the sometimes glacial (though presumably authentic) pace of sea battles. Although offset slightly by the strategic elements you can't shake the feeling that it's not quite as much fun as it ought to be given the range of military toys on offer. That said, this take on what has become a very fashionable era in videogames is significantly more inventive than the now stagnant fiasco that the Medal Of Honor series has become.KororinpaNintendo Wii&#163;39.99Described in accurate and amusingly utilitarian terms on its box as a "Ball-rolling maze game" Kororinpa, like Super Monkey Ball before it, has you tilting balls around increasingly precarious mazes. Making deliciously simple use of the Wii-remote, levels can be flipped all the way over, letting you catch the ball on the underside if you're dextrous enough, and allowing you to solve later levels, which become more reliant on perpendicular rolling. With a rock-steady feel and lovingly rendered maze-textures and backdrops, the game evokes a Micro Machines atmosphere of perfectly weighted small objects, with matching cute sound effects. The downside is that despite the munificence of silly unlockable balls (melons, panda heads) and items, it's such a slight game in substance that a price of &#163;20 would have felt fair - at &#163;40 it's an appalling rip off.
Nintendo had the two best selling consoles in the US on NPD figures for February 2007. The DS Lite shifted 485,000 units, ahead of the Wii (335,000 units), which was in short supply. After that came the Sony PlayStation 2 (295,000), Microsoft Xbox 360 (228,000), PlayStation Portable (176,000), and Game Boy Advance (136,000). The PlayStation 3 brought up the rear, selling well below expectations with 127,000 units.Michael Pachter, senior analyst at Wedbush Morgan, said: "The sales pattern over the last few months had suggested to us that consumers are less concerned about the transition than they have been in prior console cycles. Demand for the PS3 is tracking below our expectations, while demand for the Wii remains strong," reportsgamesindustry.biz. Gamasutra hasa longer report.
It seems you can only push a normally publicity hungry videogame publisher so far. With the release of Manhunt 2 and GTA IV pending, Take Two has apparently filed a federal court case against anti-games campaignerJack Thompsonseeking to prevent the mischievous attorney from filing a lawsuit against the publisher.Accordingto Ars Technica:"Take Two has just about had it with Thompson's threats, lawsuits, retractions, and dismissals. Thompson has, in the past, "brought suit on behalf of the State of Florida, dismissed it, filed again, sought a temporary restraining order, and then failed to pursue that motion," says the complaint. Such lawsuits come at "unpredictable times and under unpredictable circumstances" and can disrupt Take Two's relationships with retailers, who can also get dragged into these battles..."In turn, Thompson will probably be licking his licks at the prospect of another ridiculous legal scuffle with a major global purveyor of violent games. Haven't the law courts of Florida got more important things to do?
Daleks:not so scary when knitted:tinyurl.com/28a53sThe 10manliest songs:tinyurl.com/ywfcazForget Teenage MutantNinja Turtles- give us surly depressed youth:tinyurl.com/26aglyTom Hanksgoes for a wee in all his movies:tinyurl.com/2coyhxEverything aboutReggae Reggae sauce:bothersbar.co.ukThe 10 Worstinventions of 2008:tinyurl.com/25lkfpRalph Wiggumis a special boy:tinyurl.com/33jrqqGeorge Wis not the first US president to say the wrong thing, he's just the best at it:tinyurl.com/2ah3aeMs Pac-Manwas the "femme fatale of the gaming world":tinyurl.com/24woagBlog roll: LondonLondon Review Of Breakfastslondonreviewofbreakfasts.blogspot.comCathy Latte, Orva Easy and other arch cafe criticsLondonistlondonist.comIncludes the perils of the free newspaper overloadThe Rat &amp; The Mousetheratandmouse.co.ukSwinging property blogWest End Whingerswestendwhingers.wordpress.comPutting the theatre district to rightsGoing Undergroundlondon-underground.blogspot.comSuperior snarking from the bowels of the Circle LineDiamond Geezerdiamondgeezer.blogspot.comWandering around the forgotten corners of BowThe Man From Catfordcatfordman.blogspot.comCatford Cycling Club, plus one man's pursuit of the perfect kebab
Broken TVCharlie Brooker has competition as the world's most irate Sky+ user. Unless the mysterious Mark X, who writes this fabulously angry blog is, in fact, our very own Fearne Cotton baiter. Here, then, you will discover a fantastic rant about those excruciating anti-piracy messages that one must endure at the start of DVDs. Why, he wonders, do they insist on punishing people who go and buy legitimate DVDs? Fair point, as is the observation that despite Harry Hill's TV Burp being Britain's top rated non-soap, several weeks ago ITV still only managed to sell one commercial in the ad break - and that was for Trident chewing gum.broken-tv.blogspot.comArcade FireIn an age when the CD is dying out and along with it sleevenotes and artwork, maybe bands' official sites should pick up the slack. This portal will dispatch you towards three separate suitably enigmatic sites for everyone's favourite evangelical Canadian indie octet. The Band Site offers personal secrets, including photographs of the guitarist riding a lawnmower. The Neon Bible pages advertise their new album with some curious footage of blindfolded swimmers alongside album lyrics and a live cover of the Clash's Guns Of Brixton. Finally, there is a somewhat straightforward Fan Site to service all your tour information, discography and file sharing needs.arcadefire.com
NIMH, America's National Institute of Mental Health, has published findings relating spatial memory - essentially remembering where objects are relative to one another - to a variety of mood disorders. Previously, researchers had used two-dimensional memory tests to predict damage to the hippocampus, which might also manifest itself as depression, but specially designed videogames produce a far more refined calibration and can measure dysfunction that, otherwise, would have gone undetected. Gamers wondering whether their inability to score more in Brain Age or complete the last world in Mario vs Donkey Kong 2 may be a sign of hippocampal malformation should probably think about something else, and give NIMH a wide berth. Look what almost happened to Mrs Frisby.
MondayLord of the RingsTuesdayPSP 2.0 'confirmed'Relinquish control! Take over the world!Who really made the Wii controller?Will Wright at SXSWWednesdayHelping the world with gamesHome and LBP impressionsThursdayAvoiding stereoypesGames in TechnologyFridayBridging the gapCrykey
SlashGear at CeBIT: Everything you want to know about the Samsung Q1 Ultrahas details of the latest Origami-style Ultra Mobile PC, which is expected to be released running Windows Vista. A video is promised later.There's alsoSlashGear at CeBIT: LG Prada phone hands-on, with a look at another Korean product: the LG Prada touch-screen phone announced last year.
MCVreports that Microsoft have announced the release date of Windows Live, the big brother to the Xbox's Live service. From May, PC owners will be able to link up their home console profiles to their desktop or laptop computers, thus extending the potential reach of their social networks beyond the big white box underneath the TV. Non-Xbox owners will also be able to create a profile which will keep track of PC gaming achievements (just in time for the release of Half Life Vista), and will allow access to the downloadable content on Xbox Live. The community will thus expand into a global love-in of gaming. It won't be long before the boundaries become even more permeable and we'll have gamer scores for amount of time spent crunching numbers in Excel and best obtuse question posted to the Microsoft Office Helper.Cross-platform convergence is the future. Meta-identities (whether you choose to partake or not) will become pervasive across media platforms; soon we'll be able to link ourMySpaceprofiles with ourTwitteraccounts with our Gamerpoints and ourWoW levels(that's you Crys). The downside is, of course, that potential employers and other interested parties will be able to see where we stand in the MotoGP 06 league tables as well as how we fare asphotographers, whichlinkswe like and whatmusicwe listen to.But this move by Microsoft makes enormous amounts of sense in a console race reliant upon extending its market beyond the traditional demographic. This is the biggest limitation of the PS3'sHome. The networks which will be created in its beautifully-rendered environments will be, like Second Life's, situated within its boundaries. Maybe gamers like that, but the media centre capabilities which the PS3 is promoting (internet browser,camera and mic, MP3 player connectivity, movie and music downloads) are also aimed at non-gamers. They may develop PS3 avatars in Home, but what's the point if they can't integrate with other environments?I really like what Sony are doing, please don't get me wrong. Their moves towards user-generated integration, social networking and multi-media are well-researched and will be well-implemented. But by keeping the walls around their digital garden high and impenetrable, they're creating gaps which other console manufacturers, like Microsoft, are already trying to fill.
Just back from a Microsoft Vista/Live event held to show off Vista's gaming features. The highlight was undoubtedly playable code ofCrysis- the Vista only shooter from the guys who made original tropical FPS, Far Cry. Wow. Photo realism can't be that far off - you barely had to squint to think the environments were "real". To be honest it's a shame such lush graphics are wasted on a shooter - albeit one that certainly seemed enjoyable enough in the brief demo available. The real next-gen will occur when games that look as good as this offer more than just shooting. But for now at least Crysis is the best looking game on Earth.Unfortunately for Microsoft, Crysis overshadowed everything else. Halo 2 on Vista looked bland in comparison - I can't get excited about this at all. Shadowrun - the first joint PC/Xbox title - lacked visual sparkle and felt unnecessarily complicated, with far too much button assigning and faff for such a fast paced shooter. World in Conflict and Company of Heroes were doing their RTS thing - but both were far less interesting than Geometry Wars on Vista. But Crysis was the star and is likely to be the main reason most gamers finally upgrade to Vista.
Last week I took the time to ask *you* what question you think would go well as part of the following week's Friday Afternoon Question.Response was muted - no reflection on you lot, I'm sure - but a couple of the questions intrigued me (to "APLFortran", I'd point out that none of the Tech blog writers actually live in London) . Also, a couple of people wanted to actually know about Technology Blog itself, and what people think of it.Given that we enjoy the spirit of openness and all that jazz, let's open the floor for comments and criticism:What do you get out of the Technology Blog that you can't get elsewhere - and in what way would you like us to improve the range covered here?Let us know your thoughts.
TheTwitterhype machine - which isn't really driven by the company themselves, but mainly by a handful of hyperenthusiastic bloggers - is in full swing. Whether you think it's a good thing or not, Twitter certainly seems to have captured the imagination.It's got almost as many people hot under the collar as MySpace, and you can't buy that kind of buzz. Since I wrote a piece called"What is Twitter and is there any reason I should care", I've been asked to do several radio interviews on the subject, and have watched a massive turnover of blog talk about why it's great or terrible.Charlene Li from Forrestersays it will "be overused, overload people, who will then get turned off... Yet, I think there is real potential", and I happen to broadly agree.However, plenty of people have beenbaggingit as well - as always happens when something suddenly goes from alpha geek to mainstream.I'd like to refer people to a piece which (for some bizarre reason) I didn't publish here, but onmy personal blogback in January.At first glimpse, it seems vacuous and empty: just another "look at me" service like blogging or MySpace - and likely to draw derision from mainstream users or those snorting fuddies who think the kids are an alien species who will eventually grow up to be Just Like Them.But is that it? Is Twitter simply another badge for kids to wear? Is it just a fad for the geek cognoscenti?I don't think so.I stick by that now: Twitter is a tool which unites several distinct apps (web, IM, mobile) and brings them together. Oh yes, of course you can use SMS, IM, internet to keep track of these things - and there are plenty of phones which will, one day, do this well. But Twitter does it now, adding a little extra layering in there, and then brings it all together in a fairly simple package.Of course, not everybody's going to use it - and certainly not everyone's going to enjoy it. But I have to say that the backlash doesn't seem to be against Twitter itself, but the over-the-top hype around it.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
As you walk into the waiting room of Thornley House Medical Centre in Hyde, Cheshire, the first thing you see is a giant plasma screen inviting you to apply to view your medical records on the web. Meanwhile, at Queen Alexandra hospital in Portsmouth, nurses routinely enter patients' vital signs into handheld personal digital assistants.In both settings, IT is creating new types of medical knowledge - with lifesaving potential. At Portsmouth, electronic recording of routine data such as blood pressure, temperature and heart rate alerts specialists when a patient shows signs of deterioration. Previously, these readings just ended up on a chart at the end of the bed. "It's sometimes said that the only people who ever look at the chart are visiting relatives," says Professor Gary Smith, the intensive care consultant behind the VitalPAC project. Not only does digital information get to the right people more quickly, it is also more accurate - in one study, errors fell by two-thirds when data was recorded electronically.Patients' rights to dataIn Hyde, the revolution in healthcare information may have even more profound consequences. It is the first practice in the world to invite every patient to inspect their electronic health record and, if they want, to have it available online.Dr Amir Hannan, a partner at the practice, has a good reason to be passionate about sharing information: some of his patients were formerly on the list of serial killer Harold Shipman. Every patient should have the right to see their record, says Hannan, no matter how disturbing. Sharing information means that mistakes get corrected and involves patients in their own care.Two triumphs of the &pound;14.6bn NHS programme for IT? Hardly. Electronic medical records at Hyde and Portsmouth may be achieving what the national programme, conceived five years ago this spring, is setting out to do. But they are independent efforts, happening not because of the national effort but almost despite it.While Hannan and Smith and other pioneers dotted around the country have patients' full clinical details available at the touch of a button, the much-vaunted NHS programme is only now about to start loading basic clinical details on to the care records "spine". These will contain only the allergies and current prescriptions of patients at a few primary care trusts.Next week the annual Healthcare Computing conference in Harrogate will buzz with accusations that the national programme has held back progress. There are two reasons behind this charge. First, under the &pound;1bn contracts signed early in the programme, hospitals have to replace their administrative systems which record patients' details with systems from centrally chosen suppliers. As this involves considerable local effort for little benefit, progress is painfully slow. The second problem is the potential threat to confidentiality arising from making records available on a national scale.Senior executives at NHS Connecting for Health, the agency set up to run the programme, deny the charge of delaying progress. Health ministers reel off lists of statistics of appointments booked through the new "Choose and Book" system created by the programme and the number of messages sent through the spine, described as "the world's biggest structured healthcare messaging system". Another success is electronic picture archiving (PACS) - systems that display images from x-rays and other clinical devices on screens anywhere in a hospital (though not beyond).Local innovationNone the less, a change of emphasis is about to take place. In a tacit admission that the existing contracts do not deliver, Connecting for Health is to invite companies to bid to supply alternative systems to those from the big contractors. This may encourage more local innovation. Meanwhile, the chief executive of the NHS, David Nicholson, is talking about giving local organisations more say in what elements of the programme they adopt.Such local ownership is vital, the NHS's IT pioneers say. At Portsmouth, which has an electronic patient record system well in advance of anything yet installed under the national programme, Smith says the system was accepted because "we viewed it from the outset as a clinical project, not as an IT project". Hannan agrees. "It's about ownership. Because we as partners owned the system, we were more accepting of the pain to make it work."Despite his independent attitude, Hannan is a fan of the national programme. He enthusiastically demonstrates "choose and book", contrasting it with the previous practice of storing referrals in a drawer for weeks at a time before typing them up. It was not unknown, he says, for referrals to go astray. "[Now] the whole thing takes three to four minutes, the patient walks out of the door happy and it reduces my stress because I know it's been done."Hannan also has a solution to the question of confidentiality: education leading to informed consent. Patients at Hyde don't get to see their records until they have watched an hour-long DVD and filled in a four-page questionnaire, showing that they understand the trade-off between security and accessibility. "I'm getting people to talk about these issues now," says Hannan. "The time to educate people is before they sign the consent, not at the moment you give them bad news."Education at this level can work because Hannan, along with a handful of other GPs, is passionate about "patient access". Whether it is practical on a national scale remains to be seen.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If you were walking recently on a beach in Puerto Rico and saw a strange web address scrawled along the sand, or if you saw balloons released from a window in Chicago with similar hieroglyphics, then they can almost certainly be traced to something written on a napkin and left in an Oxford cafe by an undergraduate. Somebody must have picked it up because now, two months later, more than 160,000 people around the world, half of them in the US, have followed the instructions on a website it pointed to, and its originator, Hugo Shelley, a 21-year-old philosophy and physics undergraduate, has a hit on his hands.Visitors to the site, Lost.eu, will find an ambitious target - to sign up 7m people so it can claim to be "the largest online game ever". It is expanding by 2,500 new members every day, but it has some way to go before beating World of Warcraft (which, since Lost.eu was launched, has boosted its subscribing members from 7m to 8.5m).You get points for the number of new participants you attract (and half a point for any they subsequently sign up). There is a $5,000 prize for the person with the most points if the target is reached, and other $500 prizes. Not enough to retire on, but handy to cut your student debts.It is easy to dismiss all this as electronic chain letters. Shelly has a better phrase: "existential advertising", but then he is a philosopher. He says it is not about content but about spreading an idea. It has already had some interesting consequences. Members have to develop their own guerrilla marketing tactics to get more people on board. Hence the beach in Puerto Rico, the balloons and mysterious URLs appearing in lavatories, on T-shirts and goodness knows where else. Participants post photos of their invitations (for which there is a special prize) and the site is already developing into a social network with chatrooms, photos, a map of the world showing where you (and other contacts) are, along with other features.If - and it is a big if - the site attracts millions of members, then it will have a base that could be used to develop a new kind of social networking site. Robin Caller (formerly of FortuneCity, once one of the most popular websites in the world) whose company Goallover has the majority stake in Lost, admits he doesn't yet know in which direction it will go. He is thinking of anything from an advertising model to handing the future to participants so they can continue to develop their embryonic entrepreneurial talents.The lesson of it is how it is becoming easier to turn an idea into reality in your back room thanks to the falling cost of computers and storage, increasingly powerful bandwidth and the ease with which you can build a website. Alex Tew, the 21-year-old student whose site raised $1m (&pound;518,000) by selling pixels on his screen for $1 each is a prime example of this. Shelley says the idea first occurred to him in a Starbucks in Leicester Square, London, but instead of sitting on the idea he did something about it. After starting in Oxford it was soon taken up by other students there, before spreading on the university network to Cambridge, Princeton, Australia and South America.This ought to be a golden age for back-pocket entrepreneurs because of the way ideas spread exponentially through networks such as MySpace. It happens with music but these networks could be the conduit for other initiatives. The most powerful instrument for turning ideas into reality ought to be the mobile phone, since there are 2bn of them, but the myopic pursuit of walled gardens and open-ended data charges by the operators has stymied it - at least until very recently when there have been signs of change. But it is also important to to have role models to show others what can be done. Maybe that is now starting to happen.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Dave Rand doesn't have the air of an optimist defeated by reality, though one would have thought that someone who set up a company in 1994 with the expectation of purging the internet completely of spam within five or so years might look less happy with how things have turned out.But when we met in London earlier this week, the co-founder of Maps (Mail Abuse Prevention Service), one of the first spam-busting organisations, was animated as he talked about the importance of getting users - that means you, the reader - and particularly internet service providers - that means the people who you, the reader, pay for your internet connection - to get serious about spam.If your connection comes from BT, then there's particular reason to be concerned. Rand is still fighting spam, now as chief technology officer of Trend Micro (which in 2005 bought his anti-spam outfit Kelkea, which had bought Maps). "If we could get just the top 20 ISPs to coordinate on blocking spam, then we could reduce the volume by two orders of magnitude." That is, by more than a hundredfold.Rand points toTrend Micro's sitewhich shows estimated spam volume by ISP in just the past 24 hours.When I looked at it, Telecom Italia was racing away with the title, having been the source of 1.5bn spams in the previous 24 hours; China's Chinanet meanwhile was struggling to compete with 1.2bn. It's a woeful list. And there at number 20 is BT's regional network, home to a tidy 162m spams.We have written at length about the problems with spam and why most of the ideas that the average person has to "solve" it don't, and never will, work. Rand, given his long history, knows that technology alone can't work; but equally, ISPs can do a huge amount to stop people getting infected by the malware that causes spam and warning people when their machines begin sending spam.The simplest would be to identify the IP address from which spam comes, alert the ISP and make sure that the next time that machine logs on that any attempt to browse the web leads to a page saying something like: "Your machine has been identified as a source of spam, please do the following."Listening to Rand, it occurred to me that spam is the global warming of the web: its rise threatens the very way in which we go about our online business, with some local effects that are very focused (there are ISPs that simply don't accept any email originating from China, Taiwan or Korea; tough luck if you've got a friend or child out there) and others that are more diffuse (email with certain words in the subject line, or even message, will sink beneath the filters trying to protect you from online naughtiness).Yet like global warming, spam could be tackled - at a cost. The trouble is that, just as with the global warming problem, people don't like the associated cost and the upheaval that implementing it represents. For you and me, it would mean paying a bit more per month for our internet connection. For ISPs, it would mean being more diligent about what sort of traffic they accept from each other: only taking email on port 587, as we discussed last year (What else can we do to stop the spammers?, November 23 2006), wins Rand's backing. He notes that there aren't that many ISPs - probably fewer than 20,000 - and so it shouldn't be impossible to get them to implement a system that would protect them and their clients.Of course, you would think that getting governments and politicians to act, rather than blather, on global warming and climate change would be comparatively easy too. Anybody who has watched Al Gore's double Oscar-winning documentary, An Inconvenient Truth, can see that doing nothing is not an option; the problem demands political action. But it's still lacking; nobody grasps the nettle.Similarly, while spam hardly has the power to drown livelihoods and lead to millions of refugees, it creates an unsettled environment in which nothing can be relied on to be the same tomorrow as today. And if we can't sort out spam, then one does have to start feeling gloomy about our ability to tackle something that involves so much more self-interest, such as burning fossil fuels.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The fast laneThere are a number things wrong with the cover story (Pimp my ride - or just its chips, March 8). It's pegged to the contaminated petrol that caused control chips to shut many engines down, and explains how these chips can be tweaked for better performance. The photograph is of a diesel engine, yet diesel engines are not referred to (though their chips can be tweaked). More seriously, it only mentions in passing that modifying an engine's control chip can void a car's warranty and fails to mention that it will increase insurance costs - or void your policy if you fail to report the modification.Andrew BurnsSoutham&middot;An excellent article, even down to the correct spelling of silicone.Norman NicolsonLondonDeFenestrated DellsI suspect Jack Schofield is right (If you think selling Linux is easy, why not beat Dell to it?, March 8) that only a small proportion of those calling for Dell to sell PCs with Linux will buy them. If I wanted a "deFenestrated" PC I'd rather buy one with no OS installed and put my preferred Linux version on it. However, the depiction of typical Linux users as tightfisted low-end purchasers is surely incorrect. The typical Linux user is more likely to be motivated by geekery.John HaltonOrpingtonToo many cooksI was amused by your rant about the Wikipedia "scandal". (Read me first, March 8). May I suggest a cursory examination of the history of the Oxford English Dictionary? I'm sure you'll find the details of its thousands of hours of free labour and fraudulent contributor credentials familiar. Perhaps your subsequent expos&eacute; could bring down that venerable institution.Gord SmedleyVancouver, Canada&#183;Any time you have thousands of volunteers on a project, the chances of having one or two bad actors is high. But the Guardian smears the efforts of the thousands who apply their expertise for the love of their craft.isen.com/blogKeep on talkingMost phones are now hands-free, so although the design no longer allows lodging on one shoulder, a conversation can be carried on regardless (Technobile, March8).Philip PinelKnife the MacCan't you set up an automatic filter that blocks letters saying "Nur, nur, mine's better than yours!"? (Letters and blogs, March 8).John StoutAughton&middot;I recently gave my Mac-owning friend a little blue Netgear hub. He returned it graciously, saying it didn't look right near his Macs. He went out and bought a more attractive &pound;100 model (mine was about a tenner). I realised we saw things differently. I wanted things to just work, he wanted them to work and look nice.Dave AshtonMacclesfield&middot;I am a Mac user, and Mail crashes on my Mac every day. Smug Mac users give Mac users everywhere a bad name.Neil ChurchillLondon&middot;Us PC users don't go on about only needing one finger to right click. Makes Macs look pretty sick, eh?Stephen ParkinLondonTaking the standPeter Warren's account (The evidence mounts, March 8) is largely correct, but some of his details on the scheme run by the Council for the Registration of Forensic Practitioners (CRFP) are not. Far from ignoring qualifications, we demand to see original copies of any certificates and probe deeply into the syllabuses behind them. CRFP also wants evidence of ongoing self-education and requires renewal every three years. The task is not to devise the perfect scheme but to get the best mix of compromises.Peter SommerCRFP
Checking email is often where people start; but where next? Hotmail accounts for half of UK visits to email sites, but its visits have declined by 9% a year. Yahoo! Mail accounts for 24% of category visits, Google Mail 3% and MySpace Mail 7%.One quarter of MySpace Mail visitors go to another MySpace property - the same proportion Hotmail sends to MSN. 22% of Hotmail and 34% of MySpace Mail visitors went to a social network last week, compared to 7% from Yahoo! Mail and 10% from Google Mail. Yahoo! sends the largest proportion of its own traffic to retail websites and Google Mail to finance, news and search.hitwise.weblogs.com
An unwritten convention has given ministers the chance to delay their response to criticisms of the way the government trades in taxpayer-funded data.The government was due to respond last week to a report published in December by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) criticising the behaviour of bodies, such as the Ordnance Survey, which both produce and sell public-sector information. But the Department of Trade and Industry failed to meet the office's 90-day deadline for a response, which fell last week.The main obstacle is understood to be the Communities and Local Government department, which sponsors Ordnance Survey. The mapping agency was singled out for special attention in the OFT report because of "the nature and seriousness of many of the problems experienced" by people wishing to re-use its data.Last week the local government minister Phil Woolastold parliamentthat the government would respond to the report after the local government and Scottish and Welsh elections, to be held on May 3. The implication was that the government is bound by pre- election purdah - the convention that the civil service does not make major announcements in the six weeks before elections.However, purdah does not begin until next week; and in any case, the government's policy on public-sector information is unlikely to figure as an issue in council elections.Technology Guardian's suspicion is that civil servants are reluctant to wrestle with the OFT's main proposal - that organisations such as Ordnance Survey, which maps Britain, and the UK Hydrographic Office, which collects and generates oceanic navigational data, should draw a clear separation between unrefined data and refined products such as maps and charts.The Free Our Data campaign - which is celebrating its first birthday this month - agrees with the need to separate refined and unrefined data. We also say that unrefined data collected at taxpayers' expense should be made available without cost or conditions to citizens, commercial users and government agencies, who today frequently have to negotiate licenses to use information already owned by the Crown. (Free data, of course, would not apply to anything containing personal information about citizens.)We believe that the extra cost of making such unrefined data freely available would be balanced by savings in marketing and licensing, as well as tax revenues from a newly vibrant industry sector. The involvement of three separate departments, each with a different agenda, illustrates the difficulty at the heart of government policy over public sector information: no one appears to be in charge of our digital crown jewels.In the meantime, Michael Nicholson, chairman of Locus, the public-sector information trade association, says: "These delays will raise suspicions that they are hoping to bury it."&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blogfreeourdata.org.uk/blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Our microwave had had its day. As a bizarre family hand-me-down, it was officially older than me and I suspect the seal around the door had degraded, as it emitted an unsettling rattle and groan as it cooked.So we got a new one. A shining monolith, a monument to streamlining, with pretty much a single dial to control all its functions. Such minimalism is great - until you actually want to cook something. I stare at it, potato in one hand while with the other I tweak and push the dial with increasing agitation.Apparently, this lonely detail can program the weight, power level and cooking time, all in one. I'm like some safecracking specialist, struggling to unlock the microwaving goodness inside. Two to the left, three to the right, push it in a few times. Yes, that's it! No - I think I just reset the clock. If I stop to think for a few seconds, the machine pings into action on its own terms, leaving my cold potato still in my hand.I'll admit, most this could be sorted with a hefty dose of RTFM, but look, it's a microwave. Does that really demand a half-hour tutorial before use?My flatmates tell me it's all rather simple, but after I drag them to confront the anonymous box they turn out to have forgotten how to zap a spud. The whole design seems at odds with the microwave's greatest selling points: being a simple and quick way to heat or reheat food. I want to chuck in my glutinous, gluttonous, high-salt, high-sugar ready meal, key in the time suggested on the cardboard sleeve and leave the machine to work its magic.Reducing the number of buttons doesn't reduce the difficulty of using the damn thing; it's like being given a calculator with a rotary dial. Even a numerical scale around the knob would have been nice. Perhaps, outrageous as it may seem, some buttons? With numbers on? But no, that would ruin the design of such a pseudo-classy home appliance.As I'm needlessly wary of the threat of excess radiation bouncing about my brain, I shuttle to and from the microwave to see whether my food has exploded or if I need to nuke it for another minute as the chicken still feels too crunchy.And as if I were not confused enough, this turns out to be not just a mere microwave. It's also a grill and a convection oven (whatever that is). The grill adds another option for disaster, where I can open the door to discover that my dinner is a lightly charred curry and rice.I've been using the machine for a month now, and still can't differentiate between the settings for sub-zero meals and scraped-from-the-walls molten food. I think I'll have a sandwich.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Don't you just love serendipity? Christopher Striemer does. As a research associate at the University of Rochester in the US, Striemer recently discovered a new ultrathin silicon membrane that could revolutionise the way that doctors or scientists manipulate molecules. Only 50 atoms thick, it might even improve treatment regimes for haemodialysis patients with kidney failure.A self-driven and inquisitive scientist who likes doing things well, Striemer was trying to understand how silicon - as used in computer chips - crystallises. As part of his research into semiconductors under Philippe Fauchet, professor of electrical and computer engineering, he made a thin silicon membrane and placed it in an electron microscope. At first glance, it appeared full of holes. But instead of trying again, he stopped in amazement.Something special"Holes are seldom a good thing when you are trying to make electrical or optical devices. However, I immediately recognised that this was something special and unique," says Striemer.Size really does matter here. Striemer's membrane was less than one millimetre square and, at 50 atoms (15 nanometres) thick, was 4,000 times thinner than a human hair. Laid flat, it appeared blue, but edge-on was invisible to the naked eye. And with almost no mass, it might have floated away unnoticed.Another experiment confirmed his findings: "When I saw small gold nanoparticles pass through, it was obvious it had holes. The fact that it was incredibly thin with holes in it struck me - this could be a perfect screen."Just how perfect was soon apparent when Striemer confirmed his new membrane was thousands of times thinner than existing filters. The pores were usefully molecule-sized, with later experiments producing a library of membranes with pore sizes ranging from nine to 35 nanometres. Even more startling, these characteristics were easily controlled by temperature during manufacture.A meeting with James McGrath, assistant professor of biomedical engineering, led to a series of experiments with McGrath's graduate student, Tom Gaborski. McGrath likes solving biomedical problems and this seemed an interesting challenge."Chris [Striemer] came to us asking what in the world of biology this might separate and our best guess was proteins. It was a lucky guess because it works brilliantly, but I recall being sceptical at first," says McGrath.Conventional polymer molecular filters are a jumble of varying holes and tunnels prone to clogging. Striemer's silicon membrane was about as thick as a protein molecule, yet could resist 15 pounds per square inch of pressure - roughly the same pressure that the human body faces in the atmosphere. This promises fast, clog-free filtering. To test this, two blood proteins, albumin and immunoglobulin - both small enough to pass through the tiny holes in the membrane - were tried."Jim [McGrath] and Tom [Gaborski] were amazed at how quickly the smaller species [albumin] passed through the membrane. I thought the six minutes that we spent watching this was a long time, until they told me dialysis processes usually take hours," says Striemer.Haemodialysis is the treatment used for patients with kidney failure where toxic molecules are removed by dialysis machines. If the new membrane lives up to expectations, such machines might be made smaller or the same volume of blood might be dialysed quicker."Right now we are focusing on the question of whether these membranes can filter out small molecular weight toxins while retaining larger essential blood proteins," says McGrath. The scientists have founded a company, SiMPore Inc, to commercialise their work.Dr John Firth is the director of renal services at Addenbrooke's hospital in Cambridge. He says that a typical haemodialysis session for a patient on a kidney machine lasts four hours, three times a week. This is hard on patients, say the American scientists. "It is true that many patients are tired after dialysis, and that dialysis membranes do not clear everything from the blood that would be removed by normally functioning kidneys - but it is not clear that the two are connected," says Firth.Improving haemodialysis is an attractive goal for the new membrane. Consultant nephrologist Dr Richard Fluck at Derby City General Hospital is a medical advisor to Kidney Research UK (kidneyresearchuk.org). What most grabs Fluck's attention is that Striemer's discovery also supports "charge". By applying a fixed electrical charge, the pores can in effect be made smaller for some molecules - enabling their separation by size and charge."It's not just pore size, it's charge as well and that starts to mimic more closely what our own kidneys do. People think of them as a physical sieve but it's more sophisticated than that," says Fluck. "Kidney medicine is a very technological, very scientific area in which the adoption of new technology is driven by clinical need. This is the sort of thing that nephrologists would go out and look for."Working in a completely different field, Andrew de Mello of Imperial College has other ideas. As professor of chemical nanosciences, he's also involved with the London Centre for Nanotechnology which brings together engineers, physical scientists and life scientists. His research interest is microfluidics for the emerging "lab-on-a-chip" technology - an ultrathin silicon filter is useful here too.Unique properties"There's no real reason that we as chemists traditionally use test tubes apart from the fact they fit in our hand. If you can control and manipulate very small numbers of molecules, you can actually do some really interesting and novel things," says de Mello.While new haemodialysis systems might be years away from hospitals, filtering applications for lab-on-a-chip technology seem closer. The membrane's unique properties are unlike any molecular filter that's gone before - helping to attract considerable scientific interest. Thanks to serendipity in the hands of a smart individual, silicon has offered an astonishing new breakthrough.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft opened its 15th TechFest to journalists last week, unveiling up to 100 innovations - some significant, but most of which will never appear in public. This was a controversial move, since the annual event's main purpose is to provide thousands of staff based in Redmond with the chance to check out and perhaps "productise" developments from Microsoft Research centres in faraway Silicon Valley, Cambridge, Bangalore and Beijing.It was a wonderfully cosmopolitan event. There were 75 journalists from as far afield as Russia and Australia, with a sizable contingent representing India. The Cambridge lab, representing the UK, put on a sterling show. Two projects it showed off were Text2Paper and Text-It-Notes, which reflect the importance of mobile phone text messaging in the UK.Text2Paper is a little wall-mounted printer that prints SMS messages on sticky labels that you can plonk on a paper calendar or whatever. Microsoft says it bridges "the generational divide between those that are comfortable with paper (typically the parents) and those comfortable with the cellphone (the teens)". Text-It-Notes does the bridging thing in reverse. It uses handwriting recognition so that a parent can scribble a message on a Post-It note and have it automatically sent via SMS to a mobile phone.These aren't intended to be products, they're sociological experiments. However, I did see a couple of programs I could easily be tempted to buy. The first demo was Improved Podcast Authoring with Speech Recognition. Basically, you record something and run it through an automatic speech recognition routine. Then you can edit the WAV file simply by editing the text, so it takes less than a second to remove an um or an er, er, er. Another was Dynamic Noise Reduction, demonstrated by Jasha Droppo. He has developed an algorithm that does an amazing job of cleaning up recorded speech files.On the imaging side there was HDView, an Internet Explorer plug-in that lets you scroll around and zoom in on multi-gigapixel images. Don't have any? MSR has software that will stitch together 800 or so separate pictures into one huge 360-degree panorama (research.microsoft.com/ivm/HDView.htm). The project is using the new HD Photo format, formerly called Windows Media Photo, which is already supported in Vista. Apparently, Microsoft intends to offer this as a standard to replace JPegs (microsoft.com/windows/windowsmedia/forpros/wmphoto/).And as usual, Andy Wilson impressed with some "surface computing" ideas. One of his demos, dubbed Zune Buggy, lets you drive virtual cars over a real landscape, such as a table top covered with bits of folded paper, thanks to an overhead depth-sensing camera. Wilson used an Xbox controller to drive a car over someone's hand and up their arm. Whether or not this kind of thing ever finds a practical use, it was, like TechFest 07, great fun.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's been made much harder by the imposition of Daylight Savings Time (DST) three weeks earlier than normal - an idea the US Congress voted for two years ago, hoping that getting everyone out of bed an hour earlier would lead to energy savings of 1%. That could save millions of barrels of oil if brighter evenings mean fewer lights turned on.The only problems with the scheme are the amount of Y2K-style updating it has imposed on software companies trying to make sure they've implemented the new DST correctly, and some postgraduate analysis which suggests that the change won't help because people getting up earlier will use more energy.The software problems have mostly focused on Microsoft's Outlook calendaring application and PCs' inbuilt clocks. Microsoft didn't offer a downloadable patch, leading to problems, such as that at the Drug Abuse Comprehensive Coordinating office in Tampa, Florida: "We had four different times on the PCs! Some [PCs] were on time, some were one hour behind, some were one hour ahead and some were two hours ahead," its network administrator told Microsoft Watch. Certainly, it's the perfect excuse for missing the dentist.But Ryan Kellogg and Hendrik Wolff at the University of California in Berkeley examined the 2000 Sydney Olympic Games, where some states implemented a two-hour extended DST move while the state of South Australia didn't. The result? Extended DST states used slightly more energy because early risers turned on lights when they got up.The US Department of Energy says it will respond to Kellogg and Hendrik in a couple of weeks. Don't set your watch by it, though.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"Cisco Systems has agreed to acquire the online meeting company WebEx Communications for about $3.2 billion in cash, a takeover that furthers Cisco's push beyond its core market for networking gear and into the lucrative arena of business communications," reportsAP."The acquisition was Cisco's 119th since 1993 and follows several other major recent takeovers by the company."I must admit that WebEx is not one of the companies I would have tipped Cisco to buy -- either it is branching out, or it has already bought so many that it is now running out of targets ;-)Cisco has also bought Linksys, and last year, gobbled up the set-top box maker Scientific-Atlanta for $7.1 billion.AtTechCrunch, Micahael Arrington points out:Webex is still ubiquitous (I am asked to view a WebEx presentation almost daily), but it's expensive and bulky. And if you aren't on a newish Windows PC, there's a good chance it isn't going to work properly. WebEx is exactly the kind of a company that is being disrupted by new web startups, who are creating cheaper and better alternatives to older web applications.A bunch of startups have launched over the last year to provide cheaper and more flexible alternatives, including open source "clones" of WebEx functionality. Teamslide, DimDim (open source), 1videoconference (open source), Vyew, Live Meeting and SlideShare are all competitive with WebEx in one way or another, and all are better at cross platform collaboration.Perhaps Arrington gets invited because he's a venture capitalist or perhaps it's an American thing, but I'mneverasked to view WebEx presentations, and I can't honestly say I regret it. (I can live without Microsoft Live Meetings, too.) That's why it doesn't look to me like a potential boom market like, say, instant messaging or Skype.Maybe it will take off as a corporate product. But if not, WebEx looks an expensive acquisition.
Earlier this year, Penguin and DeMontfort University launched One Million Penguins, an attempt to converge traditional book publishing with Web 2.0. Millions of people (not penguins) made this WikiNovel a flailing, abstract, Dada-ist vision of interactive literacy. The process is over now, but you can read the chaotic and often overblown result at their website (amillionpenguins.com).Admittedly, it's difficult to produce a single creative vision when there are so many cooks adding ingredients to the soup. This kind of thing doesn't immediately lend itself to a linear medium like the novel either, where people expect cohesive beginnings, middles and ends. Yet kudos to Penguin and DeMontfort for their experiment. The final result, while difficult to digest, is a worthy attempt at bringing together the opportunities offered by new media and the traditional storytelling of the old.Meanwhile in gameland, where non-linearity is the ideal, we're at odds with the power of games as the world's most compelling medium and the industry's desperate attempts to integrate with the so-called worthy (yet linear) media. And ironically, we've been lapped by books. How embarrassing. If anyone should have pushed the user-generated boat out, it should have been the games industry.I'm being unfair. User-generated content has inspired mod communities and Machinima-makers. A few punters even garnered online fame for their player-created levels on the Dreamcast's ChuChu Rocket. But publishers have locked down their content and console holders only allow distribution of sanctioned materials. Their strangleholds mean that the most interactive media now lags the trends sweeping the new online world.Sony claims its two freshly announced products in the PlayStation 3's online lineup will move gaming into this space. While Home offers a virtual world where PS3 players can brag about their gaming achievements to one another and can personalise their identities with sanctioned Sony merchandise, Little Big Planet is a social network-style world of minigames developed by players, where creations are offered to the PS3 community for peer review. The better the game, the more popular the designer becomes. Both toolsets appear limited at first glance, and controlled by Sony, but scarcity can often inspire the most creative outcomes, so I'll withhold judgment for now.Sure, there are a few new outlets for budding designers to reap the kudos or the ridicule of their peers, but there's not a WikiGame in sight. Until platform owners have the courage to open their consoles to players, a million penguins will go elsewhere. And so will gamers.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Xbox 360/PC, &pound;49.99, cert 15+Ubisoft, 4/5GRAW2 is the perfect merging of videogame and 21st century combat. Forget running along, guns blazing - this is all about seeking cover and retaining a strong belief in hi-tech weaponry. Most missions are set in central America and involve either commanding your gruff team of US military clich&eacute;s or heading forward on your own. The former works particularly well, with the controls - often so fiddly in these kind of games - making it easy to regroup or fire. The graphics - all dusty countryside and widescreen cityscapes - are still stunning. Offline Xbox owners should tread carefully, though. The single player story is over within in a few hours, but play online and GRAW2 comes alive.GHDiddy Kong RacingNintendo DS, &pound;29.99, cert 3+Nintendo, 3/5Donkey Kong's smaller, cuter relative at last gets a starring vehicle and, while it is reminiscent of Mario Kart, it does have some clever twists and additions and generally feels pretty modern and cutting-edge in compared to the venerable old favourite. As with Mario Kart, racing around tracks in themed worlds is the order of the day, but in Diddy Kong Racing you must pilot dinky little planes and hovercraft as well as cars. There are power-ups aplenty, but their random nature is ameliorated as the more you collect, the more powerful they become (a missile can be upgraded to a guided missile, for example). And only winning races counts - if you do so, you are awarded balloons and tracks are only accessible according to the number of balloons you have. Little use is made of the DS's touchscreen, beyond the ability to generate rocket-starts and, cleverly, to design your own tracks and stickers. While Diddy Kong Racing isn't original, it does look great with visuals that you will swear are fully 3D and should prove a hit among the young.SBSpectrobesNintendo DS, &pound;29.99, cert 7+Jupiter/Buena Vista, 3/5The DS excels at reinvention, but Pokemon has remained the same, affording Spectrobes a chance to crash the party. There are more than 50 of the little beasties, hidden or buried on various planets, and it's up to you to scan, excavate and train them before your enemies track you down. Each task is a minigame in its own right, and that's before the Spectrobes display their own fighting moves. If hatched in close proximity, they even develop tag-team skills. You can also hatch them from collectable cards, inputting codes straight into the game. With 16-player scraps available over a local network, Disney has jumped the cutesy Manga monster bandwagon well - although for me, there are too many bland locations to explore at the expense of better animated fights.MA
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Finding your own spaceFor those people who do not want to support Murdoch or mix with teens, what are the alternatives to MySpace?David J JonesJack Schofield replies:The two generic services are Microsoft's Live Spaces (spaces.live.com) and Yahoo's 360 (360.yahoo.com). Most other alternatives to MySpace tend to focus on a particular group or geographical area, whether intentionally or not. Facebook, for example, started in universities and colleges, LinkedIn is aimed at business contacts and ShoutLife is family-friendly and "Christian owned and operated". Cyworld is big in Korea, Bebo in the UK, and Google's Orkut in Brazil. The fast-growinghi5.comdeveloped a strong African-American following and is now picking up users worldwide. Wikipedia has anincomplete listof sites where you might find something you like.One of the main functions of social networking sites is to get to know other people with similar interests. However, if you really want to share things with an existing group of friends, you'd probably be better off with an earlier approach, known as groups. This idea was pioneered by sites like eGroups, which was founded to host mailing lists. eGroups was bought by Yahoo in 2000 and turned into Yahoo Groups. Its main rival is Microsoft's MSN Groups. (Google Groups is just Usenet, which is not the same thing at all.) Groups generally allow users to share messages, emails, photos and perhaps small files, but they don't provide blog space. If you start a group you can make it "invitation only" or publicise it and let anyone join. Groups aren't trendy any more but they still have more users in total than most social networking sites.Off keyI work all day at a PC and the lettering on the keyboards always starts wearing out after two or three months. After a year, the lettering on a number of the keys has completely disappeared. Can you recommend a keyboard where this won't happen?William HumbleJS:Most keyboards today are cheap and therefore shoddily made compared to the IBM Model M range, which I have used for decades. These are still available but may have connection problems if connected via a USB adaptor; I've only used them with PS2 ports and they've been fine. The nearest modern equivalent is the Cherry G-80 range, such as the G80-3000, with laser-engraved lettering. Again, this is a professional clicky keyboard designed for use with a PS2 port. More recently, Peter Cherry has branched out with the Sirius, a cheap wireless keyboard and mouse, and the eVolution range (Marlin, Barracuda, Stingray), but I've not tried any of those. Also, Cherry doesn't have an ergonomic design like the Microsoft Natural Ergonomic 4000. Alternatively, you might have to resort to keyboard stickers or perhaps putting a thin coating of nail varnish on the keys to protect them. (Try a little touch on a hidden part of the keyboard first.) Has anyone tried this?Otherwise, I've been using a black Dell RT7D20 for well over a year after tipping an orange juice into my IBM keyboard, and the letters still don't look worn. I've seen these new on eBay for pounds 3.50, which compares with the pounds 70 I paid for my last Model M.Backchat&#183;Rejane Belanger asked about using pictures in PowerPoint. Robert D Heap says: "If your picture is fullscreen, insert it as a background. This eliminates all the edit clutter and reduces the file size considerably, with no visible loss of quality. Text can be superimposed if desired." If using more than one picture, he adds, save the whole slide as a jpeg, then use this as the background on a new blank slide: "The file size is reduced, typically by 60%, I find."&#183;Robert Alleyne asked about "processor hogs" - appsvc32.exe and svchost.exe - consuming 100% of the CPU. Bill Knowles says: "I solved the problem by turning off Symantec's Live Update. You then do a manual Live Update - every day in my case."&#183;I've mentioned Xdrive a couple of times as a place to store files online, which has been taken over by AOL. Ian Cuthbertson writes: "We used to use this but it has become most unreliable and frustrating. We now use box.net, which is similar but better."
Zune Buggy movie -- the depth-sensing cameraMicrosoft researcher Andy Wilson got a mention intoday's brief report on Microsoft's TechFest 07but really you have to see his Zune Buggy demo to appreciate it. And you can, because there's a little movie of it on Microsoft'sChannel 9 developer site.The basic idea is that you can create a little world on a physical surface such as a table top and then drive a virtual car around it. You can either look at the virtual car projected on the table top or look at a 3D world displayed on a monitor, which provides a more conventional game-style view.This is not, in any sense, a product, and does not imply that Microsoft will ever use it in a product. It's a demo of a research idea. And the whole idea of "surface computing" is, as Andy Wilson says, "to give everyday surfaces in your world, like table tops and walls, display and sensing capabilities."
Be's 24-meg broadbandBe, a subsidiary of O2, has launched an "up to 24 meg" broadband service using ADSL2+. Be says it's available from 562 exchanges covering a third of the UK, and it should reach 50% by the autumn. Prices are &pound;14 to &pound;40 per month.bethere.co.ukPlug and watchPinnacle is about to introduce a PCTV DVB-T Flash Stick with zero software installation and on-device recording - basically, it's a TV tuner on a 1GB USB 2 Flash drive - for about &pound;70.pinnaclesys.comLog in from USBLogMeIn is a great free way to access your home PC remotely via the web. LogMeIn Ignition lets you do it using software from a USB thumb drive plugged into any PC.secure.logmein.comIs that you, dear?Izimi claims to be the future of internet publishing. It lets you serve files, photos, music and videos "straight from your PC to anyone with a browser".izimi.comFor bright sparksi-spark is a social networking service described as "MySpace for engineers and scientists" and it's backed by the Engineering and Technology Board, Altran and the Guardian.i-spark.orgTV to chew on?Following Joost, Babel Networks is launching a peer-to-peer internet TV service. The Babelgum service is now open for beta testing.babelgum.comNorton turns 360Symantec is introducing Norton 360 as an "all-in-one security solution" with automated backup features.symantec.com/norton360
Technology Guardian:What aspects of massive muliplayer online games (MMOs) appeal to you?Richard Garriott:There are two ways to answer that. One is looking at the creative opportunity, and the other is the business advantage. Let me talk about the business opportunity first. In the offline game world, whenever you finish a game and publish it, it sells over a few months and then it's off the shelves. So with the money you've made from your previous game, you have to find a way to produce an entirely new game.And, of course, in the software business, scheduled delays to make things maximum quality are quite common and so you often get into the pickle of, "Gee, this game could really use some more time to be better, but we can't afford it. If we publish it now, it won't do as well as we expected, but if we work on it, we'll run out of money before we finish." So a lot of these companies go out of business. And with MMOs, it's a subscription-based business - as long as you're investing in your player base, you can sustain and grow your revenue over time, which allows you more resources to invest in your next game.TG:And from a creative standpoint?RG:The thing I find particularly exciting about online games is that you are brought together with other people who have shared interests; you're engaged in ways that people find truly important.If you think about the real world, when people go to the movies, they almost never go alone. You want to go with your friends. But watching a movie is a fairly passive experience; online gaming, on the other hand, is a great way for friends from all over the world to be engaged in an interactive experience. They go on missions, share triumphs and losses, they get married, have funerals for players who've died ... I think that's a fantastic new feature.TG:How do you feel about the current crop of MMOs?RG:As much of an MMO fan as I am, I'm also a big MMO critic. If you think about it, offline games have, over time, become better at telling an interactive story. Most games were pretty simple "kill monsters, collect treasure, you're the world-saving hero" affairs and, over time, we'd gotten better at making you feel important and rewarded and giving those stories more substance. The problem was that you always did it alone - in MMOs, you can take your friends!But that has come at a hefty price: you no longer feel like the hero; your life has become, frankly, pretty average. Half the people playing are at a higher level than you, and half at a lower level than you. Every time you log on after a new feature has been added overnight, half the people will have seen it before you. Basically, you never win; you never get to be the hero.TG:Is remedying this situation a focus in Tabula Rasa?RG:Yes. In fact, it goes into the core of our design philosophy. One way we're doing it is through instanced spaces. Other MMOs have instances, but they're just used to give you a private space to go and beat up the high-level monsters and [get] the high-level drops and not have to fight over who gets the big dragon. That's radically underutilising instancing. What I mean by that is that when you play a single-player game, that's basically one, giant instanced space. You can save the world and it doesn't matter if your neighbour's doing the same thing, because it's not in your face. We want to create instances where you feel individually rewarded, and get to engage in interesting story spaces.TG:Do these instanced spaces have any effect on the world at large?RG:They do. There're a number of ways that finishing an instance can affect the outlying world. I was playing one instance where you have to find out where the Bane, your alien enemies, are taking the bodies of your fallen comrades. And it turns out that they're going to the Province Research Center, where they're being reanimated as your opponents. You have to go into the factory and destroy it. Once it's taken offline, NPCs [non-player characters] in the world will comment, "Oh, wow, what a relief! It's good to see our fallen friends avenged - plus, there are fewer enemies on the battlefield now until the facility comes back online!"TG:So Tabula Rasa is about giving meaning to individual player accomplishments?RG:Yeah. Basically, we want everything in our game to be a lot more meaningful. In most MMOs, when you're level one, you get your mission from town, and you go out into the field to the west, and you farm the level one creatures until you've got enough experience to go to level two. And then you go out to the field to the east, and farm the level two creatures there, and so on. And when you kill those monsters, they'll reappear 15 minutes later in the exact same place, so all that fighting had absolutely no effect on the world. In Tabula Rasa, our monsters have goals and objectives of their own; they'll fan out from their bases and move across the world, trying to take the same control points players are going for.TG:Sophisticated AI is needed if it's going to be done on such a large scale ...RG:Well, we hope people perceive it as fairly sophisticated. The implementation is actually relatively straightforward. I can explain it to you easily: imagine there's a fortress around a control point, and let's suppose it's currently occupied by the Bane, our enemies. What that means is that their flag will be flying, the fortress defences will be against us and there will be forcefields preventing us from entering. Now, even if there are no players online, the NPCs and the bad guys will fight each other. And while a human control point is under Bane rule, the humans will send increasingly strong waves of fighters to try to take that base. When they have, usually with your help, NPCs will return, forcefields and defences will be on your side, and so on. During this time, the Bane will continue to send wave after wave of troops to recapture it. So it plays itself out.TG:Now, you've said the name Tabula Rasa also refers to your moving on from Ultima to a new IP. Has this been refreshing?RG:Refreshing? Yes. Scary and way more work than we thought it would be? Also yes. If you think about Ultima as a franchise, I had the luxury of building it up from stick figures to sophisticated storylines over a 25-year period. Whereas in this game, I've had to capture as much of that as possible in one cycle, and that's a very daunting task.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Yanko Design hasbrief detailsof a design fromTao Ma.
It's a kind of social networking site, and is generating huge amounts of buzz among the web's early adopters thanks to a simple conceit. Alltwitter.comdoes is ask: "What are you doing?"The idea is that it offers a way for individuals to provide more detailed status updates to their friends, family and contacts. And, crucially, it delivers those updates across a variety of different media - either through its website, over instant messaging or by SMS to your mobile phone.Since launching a year ago as a side project by the people behind the podcasting and audio site Odeo, Twitter has gained traction with a large number of Silicon Valley cognoscenti and some of the web's most high-profile names. Critics say it is another pointless distraction in a world already suffering information overload, and wonder how users manage to keep tabs on what they're really up to.True, on first glance it is a baffling and seemingly pointless service - but underneath it proves intriguing, useful and addictive for those who live on the move. One observer called it "the Seinfeld of the internet ... a website about nothing". Twitter's backers have form in this area. One, Nebraskan Ev Williams, was a founder of Blogger.com, the site that kickstarted the huge growth of blogging in the late 1990s. Another, Biz Stone, was involved in the early days of Xanga.com - a MySpace-style affair that is now one of the top 50 sites in the world.It is no surprise, then, that some believe Twitter's service is the logical evolution of blogging. The two platforms have much in common; and while blogging is still much derided, it has been adopted by millions of people.Twitter has been growing fast too, and in recent times it has been doubling subscriber numbers every month. Its makers said that the past weekend saw the number of messages sent triple, thanks to the conglomeration of users at the SXSW festival in Austin, Texas. Some adopters have taken this growth as the reason to use it as a sort of "internet firehose", corralling quickfire opinions from around the globe.The site isn't just populated by technoheads, however. It's also used by politicians (US presidential candidate John Edwards, for example), fictional characters (including Chewbacca and R2D2) and even the odd journalist or two (I have been using it for the past few months:twitter.com/bobbiejohnson).The rapid-fire model may be superseded when internet access become ubiquitous, but right now Twitterers have found that a quick text message does the trick for them. It's even been the medium of choice for some breaking news announcements.So will it be a useful addition to the web, or simply another MySpace-like black hole that sucks away at our free time? Nobody knows, but when the big decision does arrive, it's likely to be Twittered before it hits the rest of us.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Peter, a financial adviser living in the UK, was taken aback when he got a gruff, no-nonsense call on his mobile last week. The voice at the other end told him not to send &pound;17,300 to Spain."I still don't know how he found me," said Peter, who had been thinking about buying a cheap Porsche Boxster that he'd seen in a paper. The seller had asked him to send the money to an escrow company and pointed him to its website. When it received the money and the car, the seller said, the trade would be made and the car would be released for shipment.Watching the scammersWhat Peter didn't know was that the escrow company's website had been identified as a fake by a scam-watching group. If he had made the trade, he would probably never have seen car or cash again."I was certainly interested in sending the money because I wanted the car, and he definitely knocked that on the head for me," says Peter. He was already suspicious about the car's seller, but was wavering until he got the call. "After speaking to him, I made my mind up that I wasn't going to send any money."The call came from Eddie, an internet vigilante living in Florida who found Peter's details after infiltrating the seller's computer. Eddie has saved people thousands of dollars over the past five years. Eddie is one of the digilanti - an internet user who prefers to keep a low profile but works without recompense to make the web a better place.Eddie's days are always the same. When he gets home from work around noon, he lets his dogs out, then boots an ageing computer and gets to work. His speciality is tracking down escrow scammers and their victims.He began investigating internet scammers after being scammed himself a few years ago - he tried to buy a digital camera via eBay and sent money to the seller via Western Union. The seller, and the cash, disappeared. "I found all of these fraudulent auctions on eBay," he recalls. Then someone approached him from the site's escrow and insurance message boards. "When I saw what was going on with the escrow sites, I figured this was where my heart lay."He began nosing around the internet, and before long was gaining access to lists of potential victims. For the first few years, he'd call them directly and try to warn them that they were being duped. Some people listened, but some either hung up on him or, against his advice, contacted the scammers, hoping Eddie was wrong. That would alert the scammers, who would rush to protect their systems."I stopped warning people when I got frustrated because it doesn't do any good," he says. These days, phone calls to potential victims such as Peter are rare. Instead, he concentrates on logging information about scam websites and feeding it to security contacts that he hopes might be able to help. He also contacts the ISPs that are used to host scam sites registered with stolen credit cards, but mostly finds them unresponsive.This online detective work is his life. Most of his free time is spent in front of his PC. "Everyone has obsessions of some type, but this is out of hand," he says. "I worry that if I stop, I'll lose track and I'll never be able to maintain what I'm doing now, at this depth." But while his online activities grow, his real life has suffered and his friendships have withered. "I'm in my 50s and most guys my age are married," he laments.Like Eddie, David Hart feels compelled to do what he does, but it also occupies time that would otherwise go wasted. "If bullets were cold, I'd be dead," says Hart, who was disabled in a 2004 murder attempt. The bullet entered his back and lodged in his leg, rupturing his femoral artery. He is only alive because the heat of the bullet cauterised the wound.Now he runs TQM3, a real-time spam blacklist that gathers IP addresses being used as sources of spam or botnet traffic. "The spam fighting is something I can do without a structured schedule," says Hart, who can barely walk and suffers from insomnia.He is often to be found at 1am handling removal requests from the list, which attracts 18,000 new IP addresses each week. He provides the information free to ISPs, who use it to block spam for their customers. "There is not a nickel of revenue," he says. "I spend eight hours a day on a non-commercial endeavour that costs money out of my own pocket." He has to pay for server hosting, and also pays for IP addresses and domains as traps to attract spam for intelligence gathering.What drives these people? Eddie's compulsion is partly a substitute for his social life. Hart is driven partly by guilt: he worked as a consultant to a spammer eight years ago, and while he didn't hand over the technical information that would have helped the spammer, still kicks himself for his brief lapse of reason.Others cite morality. Packetstorm Security is a non-profit website run by a small team of techies that posts information about security vulnerabilities online. The site, which gives vendors 30 days to fix security bugs before making them public, incurred considerable hosting costs before another hosting company donated its time. "Tony" (not his real name), a security expert with a large management consultancy who helps to run the non-profit site in his spare time, says that it has cost them both time and money. He spends hours each week maintaining the site, with no financial reward. Why? "I think that for most of us, it's a combination of personal interest and also to some extent it's almost a moral obligation."Alongside basic altruism, there's also pragmatism, argues Rodney Joffe, chief executive of the for-profit company UltraDNS. Joffe's company processes a quarter of all the internet's DNS queries (which turn a human-readable address like google.com into a machine-readable form like 64.233.167.99), and provides pro bono support to antispam groups such as Spamhaus. When angry spammers target Spamhaus with botnet-based attacks, UltraDNS helps keep it running for free. "If the internet loses its relevance, it affects all of our incomes," Joffe says. "If people lose faith in the internet, it affects the telcos, the ISPs, the equipment manufacturers, everyone."AddictionBut not all digilanti want to keep a low profile. Sarah, an 18-year-old studying for her A-levels, is an avid Wikipedia contributor. She makes roughly 100 edits each day and spends around 50 hours a week writing articles for the online encyclopedia. It's affecting her schoolwork, and with exams coming up, she is eight essays behind. "It's an addiction," she says. "We're not called Wikiholics for nothing."Sarah has to knuckle down and catch up, so she'll shortly be taking a break. Eddie is in a darker place. For him, there will be no such breaks. "My house is a mess. I'm a mess, but I feel compelled to do this," he says, adding that he feels as if he has been guided by God. "I asked, 'God, please give me some strength. Give me something to occupy my mind'."
Are bloggers parasites? That's the question of the day in the navel-gazing world of the blogosphere. Robert Niles, the editor of the Online Journalism Review, recently decried what he sees as a tendency by journalists to characterise blogs as "a 'parasitic' medium" that feeds off the work of traditional newspapers and magazines. He calls the charge "a poorly informed insult of many hard-working Web publishers who are doing fresh, informative and original work".Maybe so, but Niles's protestations notwithstanding, blogs are largely parasitic. Yes, a handful of bloggers do original reporting, usually on highly specialised topics, but most simply react to the news of the day. The blogosphere, as others have pointed out, acts as a kind of global echo chamber. An idea gets swatted around like a ping-pong ball for a few hours until a fresh one takes its place.But is that really so bad? I used to think of blogging's reactive nature as a flaw in the medium. I've changed my mind, though. I've come to believe that being a literary parasite is no bad thing. I'd argue, in fact, that parasitism is blogging's most distinctive and probably its most valuable feature.Bloggers blog for a host of reasons, but what sets blogging apart as a literary form is that it offers a writer an easy way to document his or her responses to their day-to-day reading. The constant flow of text through the eye and mind is a characteristic of many people's lives, but it has never been possible before to capture the experience so thoroughly and with such immediacy as it can be through blogging. Diaries come closest, but they're private, and I'd argue that they place more distance between the act of reading and the act of writing about reading.The reactive, or parasitical, quality of blogging defined the form from the start. Blogs, after all, began as logs, chronological catalogues of what web surfers discovered in their daily perambulations around the internet. Many of the most accomplished and venerable bloggers continue to write in this form.The least interesting blogs are the ones that simply replicate existing journalistic forms such as news articles, company profiles or product reviews. They can be very useful, and they can certainly be very popular, but they're blogs in a technical sense only.In his new book, The Ghost Map, Steven Johnson describes how London's teeming underclass economy in the mid-19th century was built almost entirely on scavenging. The poor were parasites who sustained themselves by collecting the leavings of other Londoners - rags, bones, bits of coal and wood, faeces - and, with remarkable enterprise, transforming them into cash. Our natural instinct, Johnson writes, is "to fulminate against a system that allowed so many thousands to eke out a living by foraging through human waste". But our outrage, he suggests, should "be accompanied by a measure of wonder and respect". After all, "this itinerant underclass managed to conjure up an entire system for processing and sorting the waste generated by 2m people". Without them, London would have been swallowed up in its own filth.Johnson goes on to draw an analogy between these human waste-recyclers and their microscopic counterparts, bacteria. "Without the bacteria-driven processes of decomposition, the Earth would have been overrun by offal and carcasses eons ago," he reminds us. "If the bacteria disappeared overnight, all life on the planet would be extinguished within a matter of years." Bloggers do similarly useful work. In fact, the blogosphere may best be thought of as a vast digestive tract, breaking down the news of the day into ever finer particles of meaning (and ever more concentrated toxins).It's worth remembering that, in a literary context, another word for "parasitic" is "critical". Blogging is, at its essence, a critical form, a means of recycling other writings to ensure that every molecule of sense, whether real or imagined, is distilled and consumed.So if someone wants to call my blog parasitic, or even bacterial, that's fine with me. I'll consider it not an insult, but a compliment.&#183;Nicholas Carr is the author of Does IT Matter? He scavenges atroughtype.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Google will erase personal information on billions of internet searches in an attempt to secure the privacy of its users, the company has announced.The search engine, which is being sued for $1bn by the media company Viacom for alleged copyright infringement, said it would destroy huge tracts of identifying information it holds on internet searches. Information such as who made what search and when is kept "for as long as useful" but under the new policy, all identifying data will be erased after 18-24 months.Peter Fleischer, a lawyer for Google, said: "We believe that privacy is one of the cornerstones of trust. We will be retroactively going back into our log database and anonymising all the information there."UK organisations are legally bound to hold such data for at least a year to allow police to trawl through it if they need access. Mr Fleischer said requests for information from governments and law enforcement were a "routine matter" but denied that the new policy was specifically intended to prevent government access to private information.Last year Google successfully challenged an attempt by the US government to force internet companies to reveal their databases. The White House claimed it wanted access to records of internet searches to identify terrorist suspects, in what Google's chief executive, Eric Schmidt, called "a complete violation of our users' rights".In a separate move, Microsoft vowed yesterday to wage war on so-called "typo-squatters" who buy trademark-infringing websites. The software company says unscrupulous traders are unfairly profiting from the typing errors of web surfers and is filing lawsuits around the world to raise awareness.So-called typosquatters buy websites with names very close to existing trademarks and fill the website with adverts to make money when users mistype the original name. The Seattle-based company claims such actions are in bad faith and use its trademarks to reap illegitimate profits.Jean-Christophe Le Toquin, a Microsoft lawyer in Europe, said: "This is a new area for us but we estimate that 2,000 new domains targeting our property are opened every day." He claimed there were thousands of sites, affecting many global firms and brands. "There are 112m domain names around the world, which is 30% more than a year ago, and this is substantially due to this sort of activity."The World Intellectual Property Organisation has identified the proliferation of new internet domains as a reason for the rise in squatting disputes, which it says are now at their highest point in six years.Microsoft is suing five groups in the UK that have squatted on its trademarks. One of them, the Dyslexic Domain Company, has agreed an out of court settlement of &pound;24,000. "This is just about profit, profit, profit," said Mr Toquin. "Each click provides a few cents but if you're talking about hundreds or thousands of sites then it's a really large amount of money."
For those people who do not want to support Murdoch or mix with teens, what are the alternatives to MySpace? David J JonesThe two generic services are Microsoft's Live Spaces (http://spaces.live.com/), which is huge, and Yahoo's 360 (http://360.yahoo.com/), which isn't.Most other alternatives to MySpace tend to focus on a particular group or geographical area, whether intentionally or not. Facebook, for example, started in universities and colleges, LinkedIn is aimed at business contacts and ShoutLife is family-friendly and "Christian owned and operated". Cyworld is big in Korea, Bebo in the UK, and Google's Orkut in Brazil. The fast-growing hi5.com developed a strong African-American following and is now picking up users worldwide.Wikipedia has an incomplete list of sites athttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_social_networking_websites, where you might find something you like.One of the main functions of social networking sites is to get to know other people with similar interests. However, if you really want to share things with an existing group of friends, you'd probably be better off with an earlier approach, known as groups. This idea was pioneered by sites like eGroups, which was founded to host mailing lists. eGroups was bought by Yahoo in 2000 and turned into Yahoo Groups. Its main rival is Microsoft's MSN Groups. (Google Groups is just Usenet, which is not the same thing at all.)Groups generally allow users to share messages, emails, photos and perhaps small files, but they don't provide blog space. If you start a group you can make it "invitation only" or publicise it and let anyone join. Groups aren't trendy any more but they still have more users in total than most social networking sites.
I work all day at a PC and the lettering on the keyboards always starts wearing out after two or three months. After a year, the lettering on a number of the keys has completely disappeared. Can you recommend a keyboard where this won't happen? William HumbleMost keyboards today are cheap and therefore shoddily made compared to the IBM Model M range, which I have used for decades. These are still available but may have connection problems if connected via a USB adaptor; I've only used them with PS2 ports and they've been fine.The nearest modern equivalent is the Cherry G-80 range, such as the G80-3000, with laser-engraved lettering. Again, this is a professional clicky keyboard designed for use with a PS2 port. More recently, Peter Cherry has branched out with the Sirius, a cheap wireless keyboard and mouse, and the eVolution range (Marlin, Barracuda, Stingray), but I've not tried any of those. Also, Cherry doesn't have an ergonomic design like the Microsoft Natural Ergonomic 4000.Alternatively, you might have to resort to keyboard stickers or perhaps putting a thin coating of nail varnish on the keys to protect them. (Try a little touch on a hidden part of the keyboard first.) Has anyone tried this?Otherwise, I've been using a black Dell RT7D20 for well over a year after tipping an orange juice into my IBM keyboard, and the letters still don't look worn. I've seen these new on eBay.co.uk for 3.50, which compares with the 70 I paid for my last Model MBackchatvia email: Kate Bevan says: "The best and most rugged keyboard EVER" is theEnermax Aurora. "I love mine: sturdy, not losing its lettering, lovely touch, worth every penny."
I've mentioned Xdrive a couple of times as a place to store files online, which has been taken over by AOL. Ian Cuthbertson writes: "We used to use this but it has become most unreliable and frustrating. We now usewww.box.net, which is similar but better."Another alternative is Diino UK (www.diino.co.uk), which offers 2GB of online storage free.
OK, we'll admit tonot having been hugely impressed at firstby theMonth of Apple Bugswebsite, and the exploits it showed against Apple's OS X - largely because it got off to a poor start, detailing exploits against third-party products.However, perusing the fixes inApple's latest security updateshows that the MOAB hit the target quite a few times. Of 30 security tightenings in the new code (download it now!), 7 of the fixes relate to MOAB postings (in fact to 9 of the postings, since some attacked the same flaw) while another 4 emerged from the relatedMonth of Kernel Bugs. That's getting on for one-third of the fixes, not all of which apply to the OS X client (MySQL is also in there, which is only officially for the server).So, let's say it: the MOAB exposed important flaws.Conclusions? While publicising weaknesses in the manner of MOAB is principally ego, and isn't the done thing among security researchers, they did turn up some interesting gaps in security. Unless someone has had their OS X box hacked in the meantime through those (get in touch, of course, if you have..), the net effect is a stronger OS.Ryan Naraine at ZDNet hasweighs in too:Apple's marketing department gets a kick out of kicking sand in Microsoft's eye on security but, truth be told, Apple has a long way to go to match Redmond's seriousness around security. This is an issue that wasraised almost a year ago by Microsoft's Stephen Toulouseand it's worth repeating..His top recommendation (of five):pple desperately needs a security czar to who is empowered to face the reality that there are serious problems with its code quality.All of whichprompts Paul Thurrott to ask: Does the smug stop here?I don't know, you'd have toread this week's lettersto decide.
Loads of games coverage in the Technology supplement today. Thereviewsare in with GRAW 2 (more of the same, but still bloody marvelous), Diddy Kong Racing (can it match the classic N64 version?) and Spectrobes. GRAW 2 has been the only thing keeping me away from Crackdown (game of the year so far?) and comes recommended, especially if you play online. The co-op missions are the highlight.ElsewhereAlekslaments the lack of a true WikiGame while agame called Losthas lofty ambitions. Finally veteran developer Richard Garriotttalks about his latest creation, Tabula Rasa - the world's first meaningful MMO, apparently.
We've pondered itbefore, written about it atgreat lengthand considered theimplications, but in an attempt to repeat ourselves even further, Clive Thompson has a great column up onWiredthat demands that players think about the role of race in games.The article, which delves into racial undertones in gaming characters, is a harrowing reminder of the stereotypes we unthinkingly perpetuate through our eveyday entertainment:...races inside games often seem to reflect, in a creepy way, some of our most regrettable biases about race in real life. For example, when World of Warcraft first came out, players were amused, stunned or both to discover that the evil trolls spoke in ... Jamaican accents. Aaron Delwiche, a game academic at Trinity University, asked his student Beth Cox to analyze all the "emotes" in World of Warcraft -- the spoken greetings or hand gestures Blizzard pre-programmed into each race. She found that Trolls were "disproportionately more likely to make violent or sexual statements," Delwiche notes. (Some of their sentences were even scripted in Ebonics: "You going to axe me out?" says the female Troll when you hit the "flirt" command.) In the same way, the "good" alliance characters tended to employ Western, Christian-like symbols, while the evil horde had totems and shamanistic magic. "Clearly, there's something interesting happening there, and it's not just coincidence," Delwiche adds.But we can't just sit in our comfy chairs with controller in hand and pass the blame to game designers. Players have a penchant to choose characters based upon our own stereotypes:When Nick Yee, a game academic at Stanford University, polled World of Warcraft players in 2005, he found that while there were nine possible races to choose from, a significant majority -- more than half of women and almost half of men -- chose to play as the two most "white-looking" and "pretty" races in the game: Humans and elves.Oh misery.At GDC, a gaggle of top academics brought forward ten digested items that game studies have learned in 2006 which may benefit developers. One of 'em was fewer racial stereotypes (viaRaph):Games need non-white characters who are not gangsters or criminals. Game Studies Journal independent researcher. uestion was, do players project aspects of their lives onto their chars? If you are male or female, how does that affect how you build a family? Female players get Sims pregnant 60% of the time, males only 11%. If parents are divroced, so you marry your Sims? Players who have married parents keep their sims married 73%, divoerced families only 53%. There is a weak correlation between personality and ingame behavior. Strong correlation between player race and character choice, it's the exception. And females are a lot more likely to have babies in the Sims. Players are a little likely to want to enact their personlaities, but very likely to want to enact their race and their gender. Got positive racial roles in your game?So a question, then. Which are the best-drawn characters in computer games? Beyond race, colour or creed, gender, marital status or beefy muscle, which are the characters you feel transcend the stereotypes?
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Fitter, healthier, more productiveBritain's medical practitioners are making lifesaving technological advances at local level - by effectively ignoring the costly NHS IT programme, explains Michael Cross.The unsung guardians of the internetAn army of 'digilanti' - unpaid loners at their PCs - are trying to keep the web free of spam and scammers.Hi Mom, ths Microsoft TechFest is gr8 :-) PS hv u seen Zune Buggy?Microsoft Research showed off nifty ideas from SMS 'stickies' to virtual cars.The serious business of making online games funRichard Garriott, The man behind the Ultima series, sets out where he sees the MMO genre going and how his new game, Tabula Rasa, fits in.If old media can do a wiki, why can't gamers?Aleks Krotoski: Earlier this year, Penguin and DeMontfort University launched One Million Penguins, an attempt to converge traditional book publishing with Web 2.0. Millions of people (not penguins) made this WikiNovel a flailing, abstract, Dada-ist vision of interactive literacy.GamesGhost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 | Diddy Kong Racing | SpectrobesNewly Asked Questions:Is anyone sure what time it is in the United States?It's been made much harder by the imposition of Daylight Savings Time (DST) three weeks earlier than normal - an idea the US Congress voted for two years ago, hoping that getting everyone out of bed an hour earlier would lead to energy savings of 1%.What is Twitter, and is there any reason I should care?It's a kind of social networking site, and is generating huge amounts of buzz among the web's early adopters thanks to a simple conceit. All twitter.com does is ask: "What are you doing?"Read me firstNicholas Carr: Feel free to call my blog a parasite, because I'll take it as a compliment.Lost? Follow me in, to the social futureVictor Keegan: Visitors to the site, Lost.eu, will find an ambitious target - to sign up 7m people so it can claim to be "the largest online game ever".TechnobileMat Smith: Is it too much to ask of modern design that a microwave be equipped with simple buttons?If we can't sort out spam, what hope do we have for tackling global warming?Charles Arthur: Dave Rand doesn't have the air of an optimist defeated by reality, though one would have thought that someone who set up a company in 1994 with the expectation of purging the internet completely of spam within five or so years might look less happy with how things have turned out.Free data? Mustn't talk, minister tells OFTGovernment hides behind unwritten 'purdah' convention ahead of polls.How the tiniest sieve in the world could improve dialysisA super-thin membrane full of minute holes at first seemed a mistake - until the scientists thought again.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesBe's 24-meg broadband | Plug and watch | Log in from USB | Is that you, dear? | For bright sparks | TV to chew on? | Norton turns 360Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your post town.SiteseeingHitwise explains: What do you do after checking email?
"When you search on Google, we collect information about your search, such as the query itself, IP addresses and cookie details," saysthe official Google blog. It certainly collects enough information to indetify you, and quite possibly to hang you (depending on the punishment strategies of your local jurisdiction).Google doesn't have to collect this information, but it does, so if you put sufficient value on your privacy, you have to figure out how to protect it on Google and other search engines.However, even Google has now come to recognise that it isn't necessarily to keep all these records forever. The blog says:Today we're pleased to report a change in our privacy policy: Unless we're legally required to retain log data for longer, we will anonymize our server logs after a limited period of time. When we implement this policy change in the coming months, we will continue to keep server log data (so that we can improve Google's services and protect them from security and other abuses)--but will make this data much more anonymous, so that it can no longer be identified with individual users, after 18-24 months.Thankyou, Google: that represents a very welcome advance.However, 18-24 months still sounds far too long to me. Frankly I don't believe that two years' personal data delivers any significant benefitfor usersover three months. But of course, I'm not allowed to know.Yeah, I know: if it bothers you, you can always stop using Google. There are at least a few search engines that don't retain any user data at all, such asScroogle(a "Google scraper"),ixquickandClusty. Is anybody going to switch? Thought not. Why give up real and immediate short-term benefits to avoid a potential and possibly unreal long-term risk?Would you switch to Yahoo or Windows Live Search if either of those pledged not to retain data for more than three months?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
The only downside was a curtailed Q&amp;A - though Harrison did announce that 1200 PS2 games were now running on the PS3 - but otherwise last night's demo of Home and LittleBigPlanet was a success. Home was first and my initial impression seeing it on the big screen was mixed - Phantasy Star Universe's lobby, essentially - but it quickly became clear that PS3 Home was something special. Most of the features have been discussed elsewhere, but the ability to create your own personalized media space, avatar and trophy (achievement) room looked even more impressive close-up. Yes, some of the features seemed to have been included purely for show-off potential - i.e. the ability to lob your TV around while the content keeps playing - but it was easy to get sucked in by the virtual cinema, arcade games and downloadable background scenery.One issue was the feeling of dislocation that Home has from the rest of the system. Yes, meeting a friend and showing them your virtual batchelor pad is impressive - more so than you'd think - but what about if you want to go off and play Motorstorm or Resistance? Yup, you need to quit out, boot up the game, cross your fingers and hope for the best. Sony clearly realise this is an issue and Harrison confirmed a solution was in the works.Likewise the trophy/achievement thing - which takes Live's achievement points and throws in some ego-massaging trophy graphics - lacks the ability to backdate your achievements. Home isn't due for release until October - how many people will be willing to replay Resistance or F1 Championship solely to get the trophies? When I quizzed Harrison on this he suggested that it was an issue but that there may be a way to do it with game saves etc. Sadly it just adds to the impression that Home was a belated design direction. Nevertheless Home was hugely impressive and I expect it to become integral to the whole PlayStation experience - though it may be PS4 before we see it properly integrated.And then there was the excellent LittleBigPlanet. A game so gorgeous and lovable that the very thought of it managed to cheer me up after Saints threw away a 2 goal lead. It looked even more impressive than the videos suggested, with the animation style likely to endear the game to anyone who grew up with Morph (all of us, right?) The demo was the same one shown at GDC, with players teaming together to jump on oranges, swing off bike chains and grab hold of floaty stars. Twee? A little, though the universal appeal is obvious.But the user generated elements remain a mystery. The rankings and ratings system - think comments and feedback - should work well once there is a decent amount of content up. Ultimately it depends on ease of use - games designers creating tools for the rest of us is fraught with assumptive difficulties. Also, there is "the can I be bothered factor". After a hard day's graft can you see yourself slaving away on a level design? If so then LBP could really take off. Personally - and call me a bluff old traditionalist here - I prefer the idea of a professional doing the creative work and offering up something truly engaging. But if the tools are that easy to use then the temptation to remix could get stronger. Whatever, the game itself looked incredible and, combined with Home, gives the PS3 some much needed soul.
Coming up to CeBIT, SanDisk has announced a"2.5 inch" solid state drive (SSD), which doesn't indicate the size of the non-existent platters but the fact that it is a drop-in replacement for an ordinary notebook PC drive. (A bit like indicating the "horse power" of a car engine?)It's almost 25 years since I first used a laptop PC that had a solid state disk instead of a rotating drive (that was a beautiful blackGrid Compasssystem with bubble memory), and I've seen a few efforts since, but the chip industry still hasn't come close to matching drives on price. In this case, the 32GB 2.5-inch SanDisk SSD is available to OEMs at $350 for large volume orders.If it is a drop-in replacement, we can expect a few manufacturers to offer notebooks or, more likely, subnotebooks with SSD drives. The question is, how many users will want to pay $350 or more for 32GB of storage when they can have100GB for less than $90?The SanDisk SSD costs $11 per gig, compared with 85 cents per gig for a real drive.Samsung introduced a 32GB Flash drive at last year's CeBIT, and I suspect there will be a few more CeBITs before this type of thing becomes common.
Slacker, a new music service out today in beta, "is essentially a personalized Internet radio station, similar to popular services Last.fm and Pandora,"reports Matt Marshall, but it will also have its own portable device (above), like a satellite radio service. Marshall continues:On Slacker, your "station" refreshes automatically with new music. It plays music that matches your tastes, which you determine by clicking "love it" on a song you like, and "ban it" for one you don't like. Slacker then constantly updates the music it plays for you, finds new songs that match the bands you like, and songs from bands that are similar in style to those bands (those that have say, a similar energy level, popularity, or era; Slacker does not, however, assess "acoustic characteristics," like Pandora does, to decide what music to send you). It reshuffles songs just like a radio station, but it feeds you newly released songs, and also other songs that match your updated tastes.How much does it cost?The basic Slacker account will be free. A premium service of $7.50 a month lets you save tracks, and avoid ads. The hardware devices, depending on the model, will cost $149, $299 and $399. They'll ship during the second half of the year. Slacker wants to integrate its music service within other devices, too, such as cellphones.There is aFAQ.There's also an AP story,San Diego startup launches 'personal radio' service, which provides more background. It says chief executive Dennis Mudd was the co-founder and former CEO of Musicmatch, while Jonathan Sasse, Slacker's vice president of marketing, used to be CEO of iRiver America.Anyone likely to sign up?
