How was your weekend? I played a little Battlefield 3 and managed to get a KDR of 1:1 which is something of a revelation for me.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCognitive overhead, or why your product isn't as simple as you think &gt;&gt; TechCrunchDavid Lieb, of the makers of app Bump:To illustrate the difference between generic simplicity and cognitive simplicity, let's look at a couple products that, on the surface, might be regarded as being simple to use, but rank in my book as some of the most cognitively complex products of late.QR Codes – Designed to check the simplicity boxes of speed, ubiquity, and small number of steps, QR codes really dropped the ball on cognitive overhead. "So it's a barcode? No? It's a website? Ok. But I open websites with my web browser, not my camera. So I take a picture of it? No, I take a picture of it with an app? Which app?"iCloud / PhotoStream – When we heard Steve Jobs preach the utopian future where all of our photos and data would be seamlessly synchronized among all our devices, we smelled the Apple simplicity we'd all grown to love. But in practice, iCloud is rife with cognitive overhead — it only backs up your most recent photos, it works on certain select apps but not others, you have to create an icloud.com email account for it to sync your mail and notes but not everything else. Oh, and it works on new iPhone and iPads and Macs running OS X v10.7.4 or later, but not your PC or Android tablet. Try explaining that to your mother.There's quite a long list you could add to that. The "how to do it right" examples are great too.Microsoft multiyear license growth softens pain of PC decline &gt;&gt; Reuters"Microsoft has successfully transitioned into an enterprise software company and these results show that, because the strength of server and tools and the actual way they sell licenses to business is making up for the missing PC sales," said Kim Caughey Forrest, an analyst at Fort Pitt Capital.Effectively, Microsoft no longer relies on a new PC to make money from software. Only 20 percent of the company's product revenue comes from computer makers paying license fees to put Windows on their machines. About 45% comes from multiyear licensing agreements with customers - generally big companies paying millions of dollars for three-year access to Microsoft's Windows and Office software.The strength of that model is reflected in Microsoft's total unearned revenue balance - a measure of the strength of its long-term business - which rose 13% from a year earlier and now stands at $17.1 billion.jQuery 2.0 released &gt;&gt; Official jQuery blogYou asked for it, you got it: jQuery 2.0 has arrived!As promised, this version leaves behind the older Internet Explorer 6, 7, and 8 browsers. In return it is smaller, faster, and can be used in JavaScript environments where the code needed for old-IE compatibility often causes problems of its own.Those two browsers still have about a 25% global share,according to StatCounter. (Thanks @vassal for the link.)August 2012: LG sells 5 million LTE devices, 1 million in July alone &gt;&gt; Android AuthorityAugust 2012:The South Korean market is basically split between two companies: Samsung and LG. This has pushed Apple into a tiny market share of around 2% in the region, and forced HTC to get out of the country. Obviously, this is a good thing for Samsung and LG, and it's one of the reasons why LG has managed to sell so many LTE devices already, even though its impact in the US market is not that great.Feb 2013: After withdrawing from Japan, BlackBerry is reportedly considering an exit from Korea &gt;&gt; The Next WebFebruary 2013:Korean news wire Yonhap cites anonymous "industry sources" who claim that "sluggish sales" in the country have left BlackBerry executives pondering the future of the company in Korea, where Samsung, LG and Apple dominate the local market.Can't find anything subsequent confirming or refuting this. Anyone?July 2012: HTC Leaves the South Korean Market &gt;&gt; TalkAndroid.comJuly 2012:HTC, the Taiwanese handset maker, closed down their office in Seoul, South Korea and has completely left the South Korean market to further focus on the larger markets that they are successful in. With HTC also leaving the Brazilian market not too long ago, it's clear that HTC realizes what their strengths and weaknesses are.Motorola to exit South Korean market in 2013 &gt;&gt; All MobileAs a part of Google's global reshuffle plan, Motorola Mobility has now announced that it will be closing down almost all of its operations in South Korea in 2013. The move can be seen as a part of company's global restructuring which has seen close down of most of its international websites including the Indian website less than a month ago.…Motorola is not the only manufacturer to exit South Korean market as recently HTC fled from the country. The South Korean market is dominated mainly by players like Samsung, Apple along with LG.South Korea - a hard game for HTC &gt;&gt; Focus TaiwanSince some were wondering about the size of the South Korean phone market:The number of smartphone users in South Korea as of August 2012 surpassed 30 million, which equates to roughly six out of every 10 people, according to a study in late August [2012] by SK Telecom and other telecommunications companies.And increasing by about a million every three months at that time; the upper limit is the 53m total mobile phone population.For comparison, the US has 133m smartphone users (out of a mobile population of 234m) according to ComScore, and the UK had 36m smartphone users at the end of 2012 and 47m on non-smartphones,according to Portio Research.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Internet users are unwittingly turning into online pirates over confusion about what constitutes illegal downloading.As many as 44% of those who took part in an independent, online survey of 2,500 respondents in the survey commissioned by the law firm Wiggin incorrectly said they thought it was legal to upload commercially produced media to a file-sharing website, or did not know whether it was lawful or not.More than a third – 35% – inaccurately claimed it was legal to copy a film or TV show as a file from a friend, or admitted they didn't know if it was legal.Most respondents, however, agreed that copyright is important and that infringement should be prevented: 68% said it was necessary to protect the creative industries from piracy, up from 55% in 2010.However, almost two-thirds admitted they regularly use search engines such as Google to find unauthorised content. Over one in four used search engines on a daily basis to find such material.
PerhapsTerrariamight simplistically be painted as "Minecraftin 2D, with cutesy pixel art". It's not necessarily the fairest description though, as each game's approach to world-building is very different.Terrariais a touch more focused. There are objectives – mainly bosses to find and defeat – and a greater emphasis on combat than its blocky rival. It's also more imaginative in what it allows players to craft, from laser swords to magic spells. This new console port proves tricky though – controls are far from intuitive and you'll want to play the short tutorial to get the best from the game. Once you "get" it though, the world is yours, and multiplayer through Xbox Live is a joy.
In 1975, a computer scientist named Fred Brooks published one of the seminal texts in the literature of computing. It had the intriguing title ofThe Mythical Man-Monthand it consisted simply of a set of essays on the art of managing large software projects. Between its covers is distilled more wisdom about computing than is contained in any other volume, which is why it has never been out of print. And every government minister, civil servant and chief executive thinking about embarking on a large IT project should be obliged to read it – and answer a multiple-choice quiz afterwards.How come? Fred Brooks was the guy who led the team that in the 1960s created the operating system for IBM's 360 range of mainframe computers. This was probably the largest non-military software project ever mounted, and it was of vital strategic importance to IBM, which then completely dominated the computer business. It also turned out to be vastly more complex than anyone – including Fred – anticipated, and it rapidly metamorphosed into a kind of death march.The project fell further and further behind schedule. But because IBM was a rich company and OS/360 was so important, it was able to throw more and more resources (ie programmers) at the task. But as it did so, the problems got worse, not better. At which point Fred Brooks had his epiphany: he realised that every time he added a programmer to the team the project fell further behind.In the end, however, the job was done. The death march ended, OS/360 was delivered and IBM went on to make a lot of money from it. Brooks, for his part, resigned from the company, became professor of computer science at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill and then sat down to write the book that made him famous. His aim was to distil into a set of elegant essays everything he had learned from the OS/360 experience. The striking title came from his epiphany – the realisation that man-months are a hopeless metric for assessing the size of a complex software project.Why? Basically because a big software project involves two kinds of work: the actual writing of computer code; and co-ordinating the work of the dozens – or maybe hundreds – of programmers working on different parts of the overall system. Co-ordination represents an essential but unproductive overhead: and the more programmers you have, the bigger that overhead becomes. Hence Brooks's law: adding manpower to a late software project makes it later.Over the years, fragments of Fred Brooks's wisdom have percolated into the consciousness of ministers, civil servants and chief executives. But only fragments. In Britain we are wearily familiar with the long, dreary catalogue of botched or outlandishly expensive government IT projects. This is not just a public sector problem, however. Research conducted by two Oxford academics andpublished in theHarvard Business Reviewsuggests that the private sector has almost as much difficulty managing big software projects, and that some such projects have even endangered the survival of the companies that embarked upon them.A case in point was the venerable clothing manufacturer Levi Strauss. In 2003 it was a global corporation, with operations in more than 110 countries but with an IT system that was an antiquated, "Balkanised" mix of incompatible country-specific systems. So its bosses decided to migrate to a single SAP system and hired a team of fancy consultants (from Deloitte) to lead the effort. "The risks seemed small," wrote the researchers. "The proposed budget was less than $5m." But very quickly things fell apart. One major customer, Walmart, required that the system interface with its supply chain management system, creating additional work. During the switchover to the new system, Levi Strauss was unable to fulfil orders and had to close its three US distribution centres for a week. In 2008, the company took a $192.5m charge against earnings to compensate for the botched project — and fired its chief information officer.The Oxford researchers examined more than 1,400 big IT projects – comparing their budgets and estimated performance benefits with the actual costs and results. The average project cost $167m and the largest a whopping $33bn. The researchers' sample drew heavily on US-based projects but found little difference between them and European projects. Likewise, they found little difference between private companies and public agencies. One in six had a cost overrun of 200%.The message is clear: if you run a big company or a government department and are contemplating a big IT product, ask yourself this question: can your company or your ministerial career survive if the project goes over budget by 40% or more, or if only 25-50% of the projected benefits are realised? If the answer is "no" go back to square one. And read Fred Brooks's lovely book.
As a third-person "massively multiplayer online" (MMO) shooter from developer Trion Worlds,Defiancetranscends both genre and narrative boundaries; the plot runs concurrently with aTV series of the same namebroadcast on the Syfy channel. It's a broadly interesting story concerning the struggle for survival on a near-future Earth ravaged by an inconclusive war between humans and an alien alliance called Votans.Players take on the role of an Ark Hunter, a scavenger for hire scouring the San Francisco wasteland in search of useful relics from the decaying Votan fleet breaking up in low orbit. When large chunks of these ships fall to Earth at random intervals – events called Ark Falls – Ark Hunters rush to the scene to fight over the smouldering remains.Initially, these moments seem to break up the more conventional grinding quests on offer, but anyone familiar with the repetitive nature of many MMOs will soon notice their character's story involves little more than moving between distant locations where something needs to be shot or blown up. That these MacGuffin objects sometimes fall from the sky is a gimmick with a short shelf life.Defianceisn't awful, but considering its bold narrative intentions it's disheartening to find an unexceptional game beneath the lofty ambition.
The use of cheap, miniature "everyman" drones needs to be banned by international treaties before such devices fall into the hands of private users including terrorists, the head of Google has said.In an extended interview with the Guardian, Eric Schmidt, executive chairman of Google and an adviser to Barack Obama's presidential campaign, warned of the potential of new technology to "democratise the ability to fight war", and said drones could soon be used to harass and spy on neighbours."You're having a dispute with your neighbour," he hypothesised. "How would you feel if your neighbour went over and bought a commercial observation drone that they can launch from their back yard. It just flies over your house all day. How would you feel about it?"Schmidt set out the trajectory of robotic warfare and considered whether it would be confined solely to national governments. "It's probable that robotics becomes a significant component of nation state warfare," he said."I'm not going to pass judgment on whether armies should exist, but I would prefer to not spread and democratise the ability to fight war to every single human being."It's got to be regulated. You just can't imagine that British people would allow this sort of thing, and I can't imagine American people would allow this sort of thing. It's one thing for governments, who have some legitimacy in what they're doing, but have other people doing it … It's not going to happen."The US government's use of military drones has proven increasingly controversial, with drone strikes on American citizens the subject of a recent12-hour Senate filibusterby the Republican senator Rand Paul. TheBureau of Investigative Journalism estimatesthat US drone strikes in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia have been responsible for at least 2,772 deaths.Schmidt's warnings on privacy in the robotic era notwithstanding, Google itself has been frequently criticised by privacy campaigners concerned about the company's huge reach and the extensive data collection used to power its multibillion-dollar advertising sales.Challenged on these issues, Schmidt said Google was "super-sensitive" on privacy and had voluntarily kiboshed projects it thought could lead to privacy breaches. "Google is not a bunch of engineers who throw stuff over the wall," he said. "A classic example is that a team built a facial-recognition tool. It was just really good – state of the art at the time. We stopped that product for two reasons. One is that it turned out to be illegal in Europe and the second was that it was not a good product to offer in the US for the same reasons."Schmidt, who said he was "literally in the room" when the decision was made to kill the product, said it had been a judgment call taken on Google's own initiative."Facial recognition, completely unmonitored, can be used for very bad things," he said. "It can be used for stalking, for example. You know, it's just we don't want to be part of that as a company. There are cases where facial recognition can be used, but they need to be fairly carefully boxed."Schmidt also addressed the "transition fund", valued at between €50m and €60m (£33m- £39m), set up by Google after negotiations with the French government. The fund will support technologies to help French publishing companies that are suffering during the transition to digital to monetise their content.Schmidt avoided the question of whether a similar fund could be established in the UK. "I'm sure we can talk about it," he said. "The reason I like this model is it's … I don't like the idea of randomly writing cheques to publishers in the old model, and I think it's a very good idea for Google to assist in the transformation of their business model from old to new."
A few years ago, a new threat to road safety emerged: Satnav Racer. Millions of drivers (I forget the exact figure – it was probably a survey of about three people) admitted to trying to get home before their satnavs predicted they would. Britain's roads were no longer safe.In these leaner economic – and more environmentally-conscious – times, you don't hear so much about Satnav Racer. I have, however, identified a potentially even more lethal menace: MPG Man. You'll find&nbsp;him in a hybrid because everything in a hybrid – the displays, the green lights, the bar charts – is telling you to milk every last inch from your gallon. Why's that dangerous? Because not only does MPG Man try to use the accelerator as little as possible, but he's reluctant to go anywhere near the brake. Plus he's so obsessed with the display that he's not thinking about anything else.I become him in this Auris Hybrid. I'm not slowing down for corners, junctions, anything. Even though the battery charges when I brake, it means I'll only have to accelerate again: better to stick to one speed. So I'm sailing round tight turns in narrow residential streets at 30mph. I'm not indicating: that would use precious battery power, compromise my electricity and mean that the petrol engine will kick in sooner. Why bother with lights at all, in fact, when there are street lights? Was that a school back there? Who knows. Oh, and I'm freezing – numb with cold – but I'm certainly not going to risk the heater. I still never achieved Toyota's claimed 72.4mpg.All that aside (actually, I think there might even be the teeniest something in the above), the Auris isn't a bad car. The design has been sharpened up (you don't remember the previous Auris? Exactly), though its ugly rear doesn't look as if it belongs to its more successful front end. Inside, it's blandsville central, though not entirely unpleasant. There's more room in the boot than in the hybrid version of the last model because they've moved the battery under the back seat.To drive? Around town it's quiet and easy. It makes a bit of a fuss getting up to speed on the motorway, but once there it's more relaxed about it. The ride is firm, quite harsh on the speed bumps (don't forget we're not slowing down for them), and the steering is surprisingly precise – good for those tight 30mph turns... Oh yes. Once the green mist descends and you're transformed into MPG Man, the Auris Hybrid becomes much more exciting to drive. But on the downside, you are now a major threat to road safety.Toyota Auris HybridPrice£21,745Top speed112mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.9 secondsCombined fuel consumption72.4mpg (they say)CO2emissions91g/kmGreen rating9/10Cool rating6/10
Following the launch of Wii U earlier this year, Nintendo has confirmed that many of the Wii's online services will be switched off at the end of June. This sees the death of Mii Contest, News Channel, Forecast Channel and also Everybody Votes, the charmingly silly daily straw poll of Wii users. Say goodbye while you still can …Games out this week includeInjustice: Gods Among Us(PS3, Wii U, Xbox) delivering weakly plotted and oddly puny battles between various superheroes and villains; the interesting, thoughtful, if not entirely successfulPapo &amp; Yo(PC) arrives on PC following an exclusive spell on PlayStation Network, and remains the only game to tackle parental alcoholism; whileDeadly Premonition: Director's Cut(PS3) adds 3D, PS Move support and downloadable content to the Twin Peaks-inspired, surreal comedy-horror.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewWeaving a decades-spanning yarn about the fictitious land of Ylisstol and its monarchy, Fire Emblem offers plenty of familial intrigue in its distinct brand of turn-based strategy. It's a game that favours plot, so much that there's a feeling of loss when your failures result in the death of a character – the game's default position is that war fatalities are gone forever, adding a knife-edge to decisions. Story exposition is via lengthy text-only scenes that suffer from lacklustre translation, although it's not enough to spoil the unique personality and sense of character development as the story unfolds. Protagonists bring their relationships with them to the battlefield, providing better support to their chums and even getting married if they get really friendly. While beautifully orchestrated, dexterity-free battles are the focus, the RPG-style levelling-up provides  its own fascinating risk and reward.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewDespite being almost destroyed during its development, with a clone by a rival developer released months earlier, Ridiculous Fishing is a work of perfection. It's divided into three phases. First, you cast your hook into the sea, letting it drift downwards, tilting your iPhone to avoid fish, crabs, squid and the game's catalogue of made-up ocean fauna (the geometric graphics are witty, even rather chic). Then, once you've caught something, your lure rises back to the surface, and this time your job is to hook as much as you can. And at the surface, your fish are catapulted into the air, where you shoot them to pieces, earning money only when each has been blasted to a fine crimson pulp. Ridiculous, yes, but also astoundingly compelling, especially when you start spending money in the game's shop, buying longer fishing lines, more powerful guns and electrical goods to stun your prey should you touch a fish on the way down. Brilliantly realised foolishness.
I am face to face with the man who knows everything about me. He knows where I've been, who I know and what I think.&nbsp;He knows what I&nbsp;do and when I do it; who I talk to and what I want to do next.&nbsp;He knows about my health, my work, my home, my finances, my dreams.His face is a foot away from mine. He is middle aged, with steel-rimmed glasses and a white open-necked shirt. He&nbsp;looks pleasant.He is not a government agent or a policeman. My instinct is to trust this man, so mildly spoken and full of precisely articulated reason. He is telling me about my future – for he knows about that, as well. He knows about your future, too – yours and billions like you.He begins to explain this future. He knows how human beings will learn, travel, heal themselves, do politics, conduct business and wage war. He sees everything and can rationalise everything. And – I can't quite get this thought out of my head – he knows all about me.But I know I'm getting carried away. It's not that Eric Schmidt does actually know all these things about me.&nbsp;Not me by name. But his company collects and stores an extraordinary amount of data about all of us, albeit in an anonymised form. Which is all well and good, until government agencies come knocking on Schmidt's door – as they didmore than 20,000 times in the second half of last year. The company usually obliges with US officials. (It's more complicated with others.) This will only get worse.The balance between the power for good of this infinite ocean of data – benignly represented by the man in front of me – and the awful potential of its misuse clearly troubles Schmidt. So much so that he has written abookabout it.This is the second time in a week or so that we have hung out. The first time is in Delhi,when I&nbsp;interview him in front of an audience of Indian media and technology types. On stage he's confident, quick-witted and even a bit puckish.We're due to meet again in London but he tells me he's going to cancel as he's damaged his shoulder in a sporting injury. I'm intrigued by his choice of work-out – not your average exercise for a 57-year-old engineer-turned-global-executive chairman. Was it public knowledge that he had this particular (entirely blameless) pastime? "No," he says emphatically, adding without apparent irony, "You have to fight for your privacy or you lose it."So the second time we literally hang out, on aGoogle Hangout– Skype with bells and whistles – of the sort he built for just this kind of encounter. He's in New York; I'm in London, hoping he won't notice the clutter in my office. Eric Schmidt looks like a clear-desk man.His shoulder is better, though he advises me off&nbsp;the meds his doctors had given him in India. "I&nbsp;was totally out of it for about four days."I hadn't noticed. He'd seemed the same Schmidt as now – thoughtful, controlled, precise, sharp. It's just over 12 years since the managerial computer scientist joined Google as the "adult" to babysitLarry Page and Sergey Brin, the kids who'd started it all. He'd begun life writing programmes on old mainframes before discovering he had an entrepreneurial streak – and&nbsp;that he wasn't bad at figures, strategy and running things. He's now executive chairman of one of the most powerful companies in history.Blessed are the geeks etc: Schmidt issaid to be worth $8.2bn(£5.4bn). But, while he has indeed inherited quite a bit of the Earth, he remains a most unusual chairman. Within the past few weeks he has been hanging out in North Korea. Physically, not just down a computer line. (Asked why, he deadpans: "Free food, you know, hang out with the basketball players, that kind of thing. Sorry, wrong guy.")What's more, it was in Iraq that he struck on the idea of writing a book – at a chance encounter with his future co-author, the writer and foreign policy adviserJared Cohen. That was in 2009, a time when there wasn't a long queue of Fortune 500 bosses at Baghdad International Airport. "It&nbsp;was the first of these kinds of trips, of seeing what the world was really like."Among his main discoveries was that people are the same the world over. "I've never met a person who does not want a safer world, better medical care and education for their children, and&nbsp;peace with their neighbours.&nbsp;I just don't meet those people.&nbsp;What I meet, over and over again, as I travel around, is that the essential human condition is optimistic – in every one of these places.&nbsp;They may or may not have reasonable governments, but the people are the same as us."These expeditions – to several parts of Africa, the Middle East, Burma, Malaysia, Iran – developed a triple function. To make money for Google, obviously. To gather material for the book (co-writing it along the way on Google Docs, naturally). And – how to put it? – a kind of global corporate social responsibility for a company that believes in the public realm as well as in keeping its shareholders happy.Schmidt re-orders these. "Google was founded to get information to everybody," he says. "A&nbsp;by-product of that strategy is that we invented an advertising business which has provided great economics that allows us to build the servers, hire&nbsp;the employees, create value. The book was an old-world artefact intended to start a conversation about what's going to happen to the&nbsp;planet when another five billion people become digitally connected. Which, thanks to mobile technologies, is sooner than you think."There's a lot of discussion in the world about&nbsp;the two billion that are connected," he says. "We spend all day talking about the issues of e-commerce and start-ups and globalisation and so forth, and we forget that the majority of people are not online and that they will come online, the majority of them in the next five years."It's going to happen very fast. It's going to happen in countries which don't have the same principles that we in America have from the British legal system – around law and privacy and those sorts of things. All sorts of crazy stuff is going to happen. Human societies can't change that fast without both good and negative implications."Eric Schmidt: 'Human societies can’t change that fast 
 without both good and negative implications.’ Photograph: Christopher Lane for the GuardianSchmidt has generally been thought a technological optimist – and he still overwhelmingly celebrates the way connectivity will rapidly revolutionise medicine, education, agriculture and productivity for the rest of the world. But the book is also very alive to the downsides of what is to come – either through the&nbsp;behaviour of repressive states or the actions of a tiny minority, including terrorists. "The future for us is great. The quality of life of the first world just gets better and better and better. But for these people, they're going to go through a rough patch where all this information shows up and they can't quite figure out what to&nbsp;do."It's a mantra in everything he talks about. He doesn't waste much breath on China – Google's very public falling-out is well-documented. He was shocked to find that North Korea had built its own version of the internet – a kind of national intranet. He chides India and Russia for various restrictive bits of legislation around the liability for content. Burma's new press laws "look like Stalin's Russia".In Mexico, he worries about the government building a dossier on every citizen as part of the narco wars. He ridicules the leaders of Libya, Tunisia and Egypt, past or present, for misunderstanding the open nature of the internet. In South Sudan he becomes excited at the possibilities of how much information can be&nbsp;smuggled via tiny SD micro-cards.He is more circumspect about Europe: a hefty chunk of Google's vast legal team has had its work cut out in recent months and years trying to navigate the political and commercial eddies in both Germany and France."We've been engaged in lengthy conversations, through the [French] president's office, with the chief publishers," he says with a barely masked sigh of frustration. "They have a problem where the digital transition is not happening fast enough from a revenue perspective, something you understand very well in Britain as well. And so what we agreed, after a lot of give and take with the president, was tocreate a digital transition fund of€50m or€60m, I believe, over a five-year period. And that money will be run by a board [that] will then choose the technologies and new ways of monetising digital content for France. I&nbsp;think this is an excellent outcome for France."That sounds great, I say. Can we have one, too?"I'm sure we can talk about it." Nervous laugh.You can just say yes.Schmidt sighs again. The prospect of European governments (and media companies) forming an orderly queue behind the French is obviously one that has occurred to him. He prevaricates: "The reason I like this model is it's… I don't like the idea of randomly writing cheques to publishers in the old model, and I think it's a very good idea for Google to assist in the transformation of their business model from old to new. So it's a very good positioning."Change of subject. He wants to return to the future. The book has sections on how domestic life will change – how your mobile phone will make you dinner in the evening while your fridge does your son's homework and your smart lawn mower performs a hip-replacement operation on your husband… that sort of thing. All this from the man who is about to bring you glasses you can talk to. ("You don't say much to it, by the way.") The future is going to be great for robots, it turns out – but also, he insists, for human beings, so long as they can become more creative. Which they will.But the bigger stuff – on the future of nation states, politics and war, the Balkanisation of the internet – is less familiar. He is particularly exercised about the miniaturisation of war – for example, the prospect of privately owned drones, which have the potential to act as a new type of IED, able to be used in the air or on the ground."Let me do it as a 'How would you feel?'," he&nbsp;says. "You're having a dispute with your neighbour. How would you feel if your neighbour went over and bought a commercial observation drone that they can launch from their back yard. It just flies over your house all day. How would you feel about it?"If you look at the miniaturisation of drones, there will be restrictions on them. I can give you worse examples, but you get the idea. So it's probable that robotics becomes a significant component of nation state warfare. I'm not going to pass judgment on whether armies should exist, but I would prefer to not spread and democratise the ability to fight war to every single human being."It's got to be regulated. You just can't imagine that British people would allow this sort of thing, and I can't imagine American people would allow this sort of thing. It's one thing for governments, who have some legitimacy in what they're doing,&nbsp;but have other people doing it… It's not going to happen."I suggest that the question of what you do about bad things that can't be uninvented applies&nbsp;to Google itself. He bridles at the word "Frankenstein"."Google is not a bunch of engineers who throw stuff over the wall," he says rather stiffly."A classic example is that a team built a facial-recognition tool. It was just really good – state of the art at the time. We stopped that product for two reasons. One is that it turned out to be illegal in Europe and the second was that it was not a good product to offer in the US for the same reasons. So we didn't do it."What stopped it in the US?"Our judgment. I made the decision; I was literally in the room.""Facial recognition, completely unmonitored, can&nbsp;be used for very bad things. It can be used for stalking, for example. You know, it's just we don't want to be part of that as a company. There are cases where facial recognition can be used, but they need to be fairly carefully boxed. If you look at Facebook, for example, they have this Facebook tagging thing which is essentially face recognition, and they went through a huge cycle where they made it too aggressive. People got freaked out, and then they had to pull back on it. So we're super-sensitive on any of these privacy issues.He warns of the dangers of combining London-style traffic cameras with this technology. "You could imagine the sort of aggressive, obnoxious autocrats saying, 'Well, we need this to keep our people under control', and once those things are in place, they're very hard to turn off. They really are."His research led him to a conversation with Wikileaks founder Julian Assange. He was struck by one "important" argument Assange advanced – that systematic evil has to be written down, and therefore can be subverted by leaking. He ponders how events in Hitler's Germany or Rwanda might have been different with the internet. "So I had sympathy for the Assange intellectual argument, but not sympathy for the implementation."Why not the implementation, if whistleblowing is an answer to bad things happening?His instincts as a cautious Fortune 500 executive chairman kick in. "I want to be careful about what I'm saying about leaking. This is a minefield."Pressed further, he picks his words with care: "The problem is… who gets to decide who does&nbsp;the leaking? Well, Assange's answer was himself,&nbsp;and I was never able to determine any providence, god, religion, or so forth, that had appointed Julian Assange to be the person to make that decision, because it's a pretty weighty&nbsp;decision. "Finally, some questions about Schmidt himself. The announcement that he's soonselling off 40% of his Google stockhas provoked people to suggest his time with the company is coming to an end. "Completely false." Not thinking about a job in government? "No, never."Kindle or BlackBerry?"I'm a BlackBerry user. I like the keyboard, although BlackBerry is certainly in trouble."Facebook or Twitter?"Twitter has a more distinct model because of the celebrity and publishing model. Facebook is in a transition and I don't know enough about what they're transitioning to. I will tell you that, if you have a billion users, you can make money."Amazon or Apple?"I have a soft spot for Apple. They're both going&nbsp;to do well. Apple will continue to be a tremendous technology innovator and build beautiful products regardless of the market share of the products, and that's a great strength. Amazon has well passed any expectations of its ability to change distribution and marketing."iPad mini or iPad?"iPad."You don't like the little one?"It's too small."That's the point of it!"Take a look at the Samsung 10in tablet called the Nexus."India or China?"In the short term, China gets all the attention; the maths favours India. And I am a mathematician."The hang-out comes to an end and the mathematician disappears from my screen, leaving&nbsp;quite a few dreams in the air. And not a few&nbsp;nightmares.
Schmidt on the power of connectivityI would argue that Google and the internet enable people to move up the supply chain. So people, instead of doing rote work, can do more creative work. More creative work requires more jobs, more fees, and so forth.  Agriculture is getting mechanised, which has been true for hundreds of years; people are moving to cities. Cities are more productive than rural farming anyway; they are more connected.Creativity will drive innovation, innovation will drive new businesses, new jobs, and so forth. That's how economics works. That is the story of the British industrial revolution. If governments stay out of the way and allow this connectivity to occur, the core human creativity, this passion for making the world a better place, takes over.On privacyI'm concerned that we need to fight for our privacy or we'll lose it and the reason this is a concern of mine is that it's natural for these tools and technologies to aggregate information about citizens.You take notes as a journalist. Where do those notes go? If the Chinese had just hacked into the New York Times and had gone through their internal servers, how would you feel if you were a Chinese dissident? You'd be worried. So these are some of the problems that happen when everyone is connected.On anonymityGoogle will always allow for anonymous search. If you choose to be logged in and let us record more information about you, we can provide better service for you, but you don't have to. Anonymity is very important, especially for people who have reasons to believe that the state, or others, are going to hurt them. The internet, in general, has been pretty good about allowing for anonymity.Onclosing Google ReaderI do love Google Reader. All I can tell you is that there are very good choices on alternative readers and we needed those people to work on other, much more integrated products. It's always about priorities.The thinking that Larry [Page], Sergey [Brin] and I had was that it was time to stop throwing things over the fence and seeing what happened, but have a much more sophisticated understanding of the global impact of our problems and products.The term that we use internally is spring cleaning and Google Reader is an example of spring cleaning.On Julian AssangeAs a matter of historical interest, I wanted to understand what role Wikileaks would play. We met almost two years ago,well before the Embassy, and all this kind of stuff.He said a number of things which I thought were quite interesting. His core  idea is that systematic evil has to be written down and that, if you have a leaking culture in government, the government can't perpetuate mass evil because the stuff gets leaked before they can do it. That point makes sense to me. The problem is, who gets to decide who does the leaking? Well his answer was himself, and I was never able to determine any providence, god, religion, or so forth, that had appointed Julian Assange to be the person to make that decision.On the future of media and mobileMobile ads should ultimately be more valuable because we have more information about the consumer, because we're connected to them. We know, roughly, their location. If they choose to, they can share their history with us. They can also target the areas in which they want advertising.Five years from now, what will your average reader look like? He or she will have an ultra-powerful tablet, and a subscription on that tablet. The knowledge that's in that tablet about the readers and the things they care about will be so much greater than the newspaper of today. And it will be possible, reading a story, to go instantly deep about the origins, the history, the positioning, the debate. The evidence is that newspapers will thrive in this new model. Some will have subscriptions, sponsorships and some will have a free model.On the Arab SpringMany Americans wandered around saying somehow "we caused this" and that's clearly false. Having now visited these countries, they've had opposition movements for years, which were were brutally dealt with. For example, Gaddafi had a series of revolutionary groups in Benghazi which he literally roll-tanked and shot every three or four years. The contribution that the internet made was the enabling subset of communication that allowed courageous people to unify. That was the step that they had been missing previously and then it was their courage and real combat that led to everything else.On the future of nation statesThe nation states, at some basic level, are monopoly providers of services, they provide a unifying principle and ever since theTreaty of Westphaliaeverybody's sort of figured out what nations were and what nations did. That's not going to change. What will happen, is that the countries will have physical policies and virtual policies and they may be different. For example, China and the US may be able to collaborate in physical space on commerce and yet clearly have conflict in cyberspace.China is the source of many of the attacks on American firms, for example.  So that duality - a strategy for cyberspace, a strategy for physical space - is possible.On Google cultureSince starting at Google we developed a simple rule which is that when somebody makes a claim, someone in the room checks it. When we were going public, a finance person got up and made a claim about anIPOwhich didn't sound correct. So I checked it out, typed in the query, figured it out and now I've got the answer right in front of me. I'm the CEO, he's a CFO.Now I've got to make a decision. Do I embarrass him in front of his entire staff, or do I wait and embarrass him privately afterwards? Because it wasn't life critical, I let the meeting finish and then privately I showed him the information and then I said, "You were wrong, go correct it."That's true within Google and should be true everywhere. Hopefully you'll do it in a nice way. I would welcome if I said something to you that was false during this interview if you said, "Oh by the way, I just happened to be checking and what you said is not true." That's OK with me because I want to be truthful and you obviously want to be truthful as well. There are plenty of industries and places where that kind of behaviour is not how they behave.You know, we run Google from the basis of facts. And so usually the first answer out of Google is the correct answer, which is why it's fun to be associated with Google.On open versus closed - who's winning?The technical optimists would say the following: the power of the internet and the power of individual empowerment is so strong that it will be impossible for governments to resist that connectivity. The pessimists would say that intelligent governments, which do exist, that have smart engineers that work for them can figure out ways of breaking the internet.Here's how they do it. The term we use in the book [The New Digital Age, by Schmidt and Jared Cohen] is Balkanisation, meaning instead of having one global internet, having your own country internet. North Korea, I now understand, has its own internet. They have people copying the content that the respected leader thinks is OK and they put it on internal servers and they call that the internet. That's the crudest and least effective strategy, in my view.Let me give you some examples of what governments could do. There is something called the DNS, which is theDomain Name Service, which is how you get to things, soGoogle.com,Microsoft.com,guardian.co.uk. If you go in and you programme that in a certain way, you can actually delete things. You can also, at the protocol level, lock ports, so you can block, for example, access toYouTubein its entirety. So those have the property that it's not a flat open internet but rather it depends on which country you're in.There are things called VPNs. The Chinese Government, for example,plays a game we call whack-a-mole, where every time a VPN shows up, they shut it down and people move. Using modern encryption there are ways of getting even more sophisticated versions of this kind of thing working. The problem is that if you put these restrictions in place, the elites will figure out a way to get around it, but the average person won't, because they don't have time, or knowledge, or education, so there's a real loss of information.On educationWhat's the number one education problem in the developing world? Literacy and childhood education. Can we solve that? Absolutely, at a 100% level. We simply preload phones with all that teaching material. You do it in their local language and, because people are going to be using their phones, they might as well use them to learn how to read. That's easy.What's the next problem? The developing world don't have textbooks. So what's another solution? Preload their tablets. We have the textbooks for maths and science, in their languages.So now let's talk about college. Well in college you've got new online courses,they're called MOOCs, and the anecdotal evidence is that 90% of the viewers are not from the US, and the majority are not from the developed world. That tells me that if you go to Rwanda, Kenya, so forth, you've got an incredibly smart person who does not have textbooks and is hungry for the latest college and graduate school level education, they're going to get it online.So what do you need for that? You need bandwidth. If you're in a city in those countries you're going to get that education. If you're in a rural area, you may not, unless those governments are smart enough to get the 3G/4G networks out to the rural areas.In South Sudan we asked, "How do you get information to the people who are in north Sudan, or the Sudan people the government is busy hurting?" The simplest way to get them information is to smuggleSD cardsin - you know, the tiny little SD cards, because everybody has a phone.They turn out to be incredibly cheap, incredibly standardised, and it's a great way to get information about what's really going on in the world to closed societies. Even if you don't have an internet connection, or your internet connection is too expensive, you could have an SD card which would have the information that I'm describing. And these SD cards are getting more and more powerful.People in the developing world are much more clever than we think because they have to work with what they're given. So they'll find a way to solve their information problem with the tools at hand, and this SD card is an example.
A typist who complained on Twitter about what she claimed was late payment of a bill she was owed has discovered she is facing a libel battle that could cost her £150,000.Lesley Kemp, 55, from Milton Keynes, is being sued by a Qatar-based businessman, Kirby Kearns, for comments she made on the site about her fees in an attempt to persuade his company to pay up.Her case is the latest in a growing number of libel claims associated with the microblogging site but it could become a test case if, as her lawyer fears, Twitter is drawn into the action as the alleged publisher.Robert Dougans, a solicitor specialising in libel who is representing Kemp on a no win, no fee basis, said Kearns was planning to take action against Twitter as well."This case has got rather tortuous," Dougans told the Guardian. "The claim against her is for up to £50,000 damages and a high court trial is likely to cost £100,000 plus."He now wants to add Twitter as a defendant. She's not denying she made the comments. Her defence is justification and fair comment."Disputed comments made on Twitter or elsewhere online are increasingly ending up in full-blown legal actions as the courts apply traditional defamation laws to the internet.Sally Bercow, the wife of the Commons speaker, faces a high court hearing next week as part of the libel battle with Lord McAlpine over an allegedly defamatory Twitter message.Kemptold the Daily Mail: "It was only a small amount of money that we argued over but because I was broke and stressed I took to Twitter and went on a bit of a rant."There were a lot of emails between us before I took to Twitter. He said that I was damaging his reputation and that it was all done maliciously."I am not used to freelance work and didn't understand there is a culture of late payments and it's not uncommon to have to wait months to receive your fee."Neither Twitter nor the Qatar-based company run by Kearns responded to requests for comment.
How, exactly, did Microsoft do it? It's like a magician's trick. The raw numbers for Windows revenue in Microsoft's Windows division were very substantially up – from $4.633bn (£3bn) in the first three months of 2012, to $5.7bn in the same period this year.That's a 24% increase, at a time when we've been hearing thatPC sales have slumped. How has Microsoft done this? Has Steve Ballmer invented antigravity?Sadly, no (though it would make a great new business line).Make no mistake: Windows is still incredibly important to Microsoft. In this quarter it generated 27% of revenues, and 45% of profits. But how is it doing so well when the PC business is so dismal?Here's the first part of what happened. In June, Microsoft offered a scheme where people who bought a Windows 7 PC could update it to Windows 8 for just $15. The scheme ran through to December, and only after that could all the money received in it be cashed in. That gave a $1.1bn boost in "deferred" revenue which was really earned in the preceding six months, but couldn't be recognised then.Take that away from the latest total, and you're left with $4.60bn in this latest quarter, compared to $4.63bn a year ago.However, that still doesn't make sense in the context of a fall in PC shipments. And Peter Klein, Microsoft's outgoing chief financial officer, doesn't disagree that traditional PC sales are plunging: when asked what sort of decline, if any, Microsoft was seeing in shipments, he said: "On the PC market, I would look to some of the third parties, IDC and Gartner. They're sort of in the 12-13-14 [per cent] down range this quarter."And Chris Suh, Microsoft's general manager for investor relations, didn't disagree with the IDC./Gartner figures either. Asked for Microsoft's perspective, Suhsaid:"In the Windows division, revenue was flat this quarter. Within that, OEM revenue performance was in line with the underlying x86 PC market, which continues to be challenged as the PC market evolves beyond the traditional PC to touch and mobile devices.""OEM revenue" is money paid by companies putting Windows onto PCs before they ship them. If that was in line with the underlying market, then it must have fallen, because that's what happened to PC shipments.So how do we get to flat revenue for the division? Because of the other element – "non-OEM" revenue, such as people buying upgrade licences, or companies buying volume licences.And here's what Suh had to say about that: "Non-OEM revenue grew 40% this quarter, driven by sales of Surface and continued double-digit growth in volume licensing. Businesses continue to value the Windows platform, and volume licensing of Windows is on track to deliver almost $4bn in revenue this year, and nearly three-quarters of enterprise agreements that we signed this year include Windows."Note that point about Surface. Although Surface has only sold an estimated 1m-1.5m devices (Microsoft didn't give numbers), its revenues (and profits, if any) are allocated to the Windows division. Depending what price you put on it, you get different numbers; given that the Surface RT sold for around $900, principally through Microsoft's stores, the margins might have been thin but the revenue boost would be solid – perhaps as much as $1bn, perhaps only $500m.Even so, those are the sorts of numbers that can make a significant difference. If Surface goosed Windows figures even by just $500m, then that boosted them from $4.10bn. And compared with the year before, that would have been 12% down.Which, as it happens, is about the amount that PC shipments have gone down. Note that neither Klein nor Suh said that revenues fromWindows OEMswere flat – they said "Windows revenues".But even though it might seem like we've triangulated on how much Surface has contributed to Microsoft – perhaps $500m – that's almost certainly an overestimate. (Independently,Matt Rosoff at CITEWorld puts the figure at $420m.)Why? Suh also said: "Additionally, this quarter we saw continued progress in the transition of Windows XP to Windows 7, and now two-thirds of enterprise desktops are running Windows 7."With only a year's support left for Windows XP, businesses are being encouraged to upgrade as fast as they can – so that also boosted non-OEM revenue, as Suh noted above.The conclusion? Despite the brave top-line numbers, Microsoft's Windows business is actually hurting. Surface isn't contributing much yet, traditional PC sales are sliding, it doesn't have a tablet competitor yet (though Klein said clearly that it will have a "smaller" competitor – aka a rival to the iPad mini – soon enough), and the only thing really keeping everyone smiling is upgrades from businesses facing the wall of XP's end of life.Hence the faintly worrying question from Brad Reback, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus, who asked Klein: "This time next year, do we risk a real fall-off again in the PC business, because the upgrade cycle has aided what's been a difficult PC market the last couple of quarters?"Klein's response: "The upgrade cycle, particularly for businesses, will be interesting over the next year. I think over the longer term, what's more interesting is the long-term evolution we're seeing in the device market, which I think is actually going to be more of a driver than any temporal upgrade cycle …"(By this he means the shift towards tablets, and – Microsoft definitely hopes – "ultramobiles" such as the Surface Pro running Windows.)"I think that's what Windows 8 was designed to take advantage of, and so I think about the opportunity more about the new capabilities and the new services, and the experience that people can get on their devices and different kinds of devices, than it is about an upgrade cycle that's driven by something else."We'll have to come back in a year's time to see how that looks.Oh, and one other point: therewasn't a single mentionwere just two mentions in the earnings call and theearnings press releaseof Windows Phone. It really is the unloved stepchild.
One day, veteran game design Shinji Mikami will tire of survival horror and just bring out a match-three puzzler about unicorns. Today is not that day. After teasing us for several weeks, Bethesda has finally announced that it will be publishing the Resident Evil creator's latest title, The Evil Within – a horror game for PC, PS3, Xbox 360 and next-gen consoles, due out in 2014.Neither Bethesda, nor Mikami's studioTango Gameworksare saying much more, but Gematsu.com hastranslated the game's Japanese website:When Detective Sebastian and his partner rush to the scene of a gruesome mass murder, a mysterious, powerful force is lying in wait for them. Witnessing the killing of fellow police officers one after another, Sebastian is then attacked and loses consciousness. Waking up in a land where monsters are wandering about, Sebastian has to fight his way through a world of death and its close friend madness in order to understand what's going on. Sebastian has to face his fears in order to survive on a journey to discover what lies in the shadows of that mysterious force.The text promises a return to the brutal roots of survival horror with limited resources and an environment filled with puzzles and traps. Oh wait, Resident Evil meets Dark Souls? Apparently the world itself warps and transforms in real-time depending on player actions.IGN has an exclusive 'first impressions' article on Monday, and has released a sort of teaser video thing, with sort of movie footage of what the game might be like. I don't know what the official term is for these things. Concept videos? Live action trailers? Anyway, it seems to be channeling movies such as Ring, The Thing and Hellraiser, which is all good.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases.Looking for Android apps? Checkthis week's 20 best Android apps roundup, which was published earlier in the day. Here's this week's comparable iOS selection:The Thirty-Nine Steps (£4.99)Book publisher Faber and digital studio The Story Mechanics are giving John Buchan's famous novel an interactive twist for iPad. It puts you in the position of central character Richard Hannay, exploring scenes, collecting items and experiencing the story in a form somewhere between a book and a game.iPadCut the Rope: Time Travel (£0.69 / £1.99)Cutesy monster Om Nom has returned with a third Cut the Rope game for Android, with a time-travelling theme as he tries to feed sweets to his ancestors. The action is very similar to the previous games: you're cutting ropes to solve physics-puzzles across six locations, although this time there are two on-screen monsters to feed, not one. The link above is for iPhone, buthere's the iPad version.iPhone / iPadTwitter #music (Free)After lots of speculation this month, Twitter has finally launched its standalone music discovery app. It serves up charts of songs that are currently trending on Twitter – as well as those being tweeted by the people you follow – offering iTunes preview clips for most users, but full songs for paying Spotify and Rdio subscribers.iPhoneLife and Death in Pompeii and Herculaneum HD (£3.99)The British Museum is behind this new iOS app based on the Roman cities that were famously buried by a volcano eruption in AD 79. Based on the Museum's exhibition on the subject, the app groups more than 250 objects by street location, with zoomable images and commentary from experts including Mary Beard; and an interactive timeline of the eruption and its aftermath. A£1.99 non-HD version of the appis also available.iPhone / iPadYahoo! Weather (Free)iPhone owners already have a preloaded weather app using data from Yahoo, but this standalone app is a big step on in its production quality and features. The app provides forecasts, heat and wind maps and sunrise/sunset times among other features, with the twist that this data is accompanied by full-screen photos from that location, pulled from Yahoo's Flickr photo-sharing service.iPhoneHopscotch HD (Free)There are a number of apps aiming to help children learn to code – the recentHakitzu: Code of the Warriorand further-backMove the Turtlebeing two examples. Hopscotch HD is another: an iPad app offering a visual programming language for kids to create games and animations, aimed at 8-12 year-olds.iPadTouchfit: GSP (£4.99)Zolmo made its name with millions of downloads of its Jamie Oliver cooking apps. Now it's striking out into fitness, teaming up with mixed martial-arts fighter Georges St-Pierre. The app offers video workout exercises from Georges himself, and promises to adapt its routines based on your progress.iPhoneGuardianWitness (Free)Obvious disclosure: this is an app from the Apps Blog's parent company Guardian News &amp; Media. Described as "the home of user-generated content on the Guardian", the app helps readers contribute to live news stories, suggest other stories and features, and enter competitions. Submissions can include text, photos and/or videos.iPhoneFish Out of Water! (£0.69)I was up until midnight playing this last night, after having downloaded it for a quick play around 11pm. That's a guide to the addictive qualities of this latest game from Halfbrick Studios – the developer behind Fruit Ninja and Jetpack Joyride. You skim colourful fish across the ocean, get rated by crabs, and unlock gems to build power-ups. Sounds strange, plays marvellously.iPhone / iPadThe Animator's Survival Kit (£24.49)You're most likely to know Richard Williams from his work on Who Framed Roger Rabbit?, but he's also been delivering masterclasses for animators for a couple of decades now, teaching them the tricks of his trade. This iPad app from Faber includes content from his The Animator's Survival Kit book, but also animated examples from its DVD, video explanations from Williams himself, and some of his unreleased work. It may look expensive, but it's well worth the price for anyone serious about their animation.iPadYahoo! Mail (Free)The Yahoo! Mail app isn't new for smartphones, but the company has released a new version that's optimised for tablets. It works with the Yahoo! Mail service, with support for multiple accounts, photo attachments and notifications for new messages.iPadRoger Ebert's Film Festival (£4.99)There was an outpouring of praise and warmth when film critic Roger Ebert died earlier this month. Now, in time for the 15th anniversary of his Ebertfest film festival, there's an app to celebrate its history. Expect more than 100 hours of Q&amp;As and videos, browsable programmes, Ebert's own reviews of films screened during the festivals, and trailers – all with AirPlay support for Apple TV owners.iPadWee You-Things (£1.99)Children's app developer Wee Society has produced this colourful collection of characters to teach children to celebrate their differences rather than feel ashamed of them. It's all about "you-things – those little and big things that, together, make you special", with examples including Little Dot who gets scared a lot, Ruth with a purple tooth and Brad with two dads. The artwork is lovely, and music comes from indie band Rabbit.iPhone / iPadWagner's Ring Cycle (£5.99)This iPad app comes from classical music label Naxos: a companion app for Wagner's Ring Cycle operas, outlining their main "leitmotifs" with 130 audio clips, eight full tracks, and a mixture of biographical info on Wagner and plot summaries of the four operas.iPadTeenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Rooftop Run (£1.49)Cowabunga! Booyakasha! Eat My Shorts, Man! Oh wait, that's the other one. Yes, it's not just The Simpsons that's lasted as a TV brand: the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles have been cavorting on TV screens recently like it's 1989, and now there's an official iOS game. Released by Nickelodeon, it's a "combat runner" game set on the rooftops of New York. In-app purchases of up to £34.99 pay for additional virtual coins – somewhat surprising, given the young fanbase and the initial £1.49 download.iPhone / iPadBookworm Heroes (Free)Here's a fully-freemium game from EA's PopCap division – the home of Bejeweled and Plants Vs. Zombies. This is actually a new version of word-game Bookworm, reconfigured for the free-to-play market. You build words from letter tiles against Facebook friends, while earning or buying virtual coins to boost your prospects.iPhone / iPadOsom Market (Free)Swedish startup Osom is pitching its new app as "Instagram meets Craigslist": an app for buying and selling clothes, shoes and other items, with filtered photos and hashtags helping show off the items and make them findable. Vintage stores are expected to be among its sellers.iPhoneCalendo Event Discovery (Free)Calendo styles itself as a "smart recommendation engine" for events, based on your Facebook friends, location and existing tastes. The app wants users top open it regularly to see what events are coming up, with notifications for notable ones, and sharing features.iPhoneYoWindow (£0.69)One more weather app this week (hopefully) just in time for spring to finally get underway. The schtick here is that the app shows you a "living landscape" representing the weather in your chosen location, which you can swipe through to see how it's forecast to change.iPhoneThe London Coffee Guide (£1.99)Finally, something for caffeine-lovers in the capital, with this appy guide to more than 130 independent "coffee venues" in London – cafes, but also carts, kiosks and roasteries. Each gets its own profile with a review, opening hours and prices, as well as information on key features.iPhoneThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day. For now, read on for this week's Android selection.CSR Racing (Free)Freemium drag-racing game CSR Racing was one of the biggest iOS hits of 2012, but now it's roared onto Android. The game sees you buying, upgrading and racing a range of cars from Audi, BMW and other manufacturers, with an emphasis on customisation – and in-app purchases used to fund the action.Facebook Home (Free)Released on Google Play just after last week's Android roundup, Facebook Home is the social network's launcher for  taking over Android smartphone homescreens, putting friends' updates and photos front and centre. For now, it's officially only available for devices like the Galaxy S III, Galaxy Note II, HTC One X and HTC One X+, with more to follow.Cut the Rope: Time Travel (£0.62)Cutesy monster Om Nom has returned with a third Cut the Rope game for Android, with a time-travelling theme as he tries to feed sweets to his ancestors. The action is very similar to the previous games: you're cutting ropes to solve physics-puzzles across six locations, although this time there are two on-screen monsters to feed, not one.GuardianWitness (Free)Obvious disclosure: this is an app from the Apps Blog's parent company Guardian News &amp; Media. Described as "the home of user-generated content on the Guardian", the app helps readers contribute to live news stories, suggest other stories and features, and enter competitions. Submissions can include text, photos and/or videos.MyGlass (Free)MyGlass has a small niche audience for now: early recipients of the first Google Glass eyewear prototypes. The app enables them to configure and manage the device from their Android phones. More than 1,000 people have already downloaded the app, as the first devices are sent out.Dungeon Hunter 4 (Free)Gameloft's dungeon-crawling adventure is back for its fourth iteration, and like the third instalment, this is freemium. Buying gems in-app beefs up your prospects as you wander through sprawling environments laying waste to enemies.Libon (Free)Libon is the work of Orange, promising "visual voicemail that does it all". That means free Voice-over-IP calls and instant messaging, with a voicemail feature to handle calls when you're not available to answer, with email notifications and text messages.Yahoo! Mail (Free)The Yahoo! Mail app isn't new for Android smartphones, but the company has released a new version that's optimised for tablets. It works with the Yahoo! Mail service, with support for multiple accounts, photo attachments and notifications for new messages.Tripomatic City Guides &amp; Maps (Free)Tripomatic is one of the startups trying to build a business out of personalised travel guide apps. This is its first Android release, providing guides to more than 40k attractions in 300 holiday spots around the world. The idea: you can plan an itinerary – using the app or the Tripomatic website – then access it on the go, and also add your own places if desired.Stick Cricket Premier League (Free)As the Indian Premier League cricket league gets underway in its sixth season, there's a marvellous spin-off game from Stick Sports that lets you build and manage a squad as well as slogging it out on the pitch. It's based on the existing Stick Cricket game, with similarly addictive gameplay.iBomber (Free)Arcade bombing game (as in bomber pilots and planes, obviously) iBomber was great fun on iOS when it came out in 2009. Now it's finally available on Android. The game sees you flying missions over the Pacific Ocean in 1943, with 26 to complete, and social features to compare your skills with friends.OrSaveIt (Free)OrSaveIt is described as an "impulse savings app" – something designed to help you save money for specific goals or treats. "Choose a picture of your saving goal, set your target amount and then use the impulse save icons to make saves, on the go," explains its Google Play listing.Paper Toss 2.0 (Free)It's a mark of the Paper Toss series' popularity that a few days after launch, this sequel is already past the 500k downloads mark on Android. The core gameplay is the same as its predecessor: chucking paper balls into an office wastepaper basket with flicks of your finger. This time round, bananas, grenades and co-workers are flung into the mix.PODFY - Podcast Player (£1.96)PODFY styles itself as a "cloud podcast player" which runs across smartphones, tablets and PC. It keeps tracks of the podcasts you've downloaded, and enables you to sort them into playlists – with automation to lighten the load of compiling them.Crunchd (Free)Crunchd is an app for people who grow, cook and eat their own food, aiming to connect them with one another in local communities. The idea is that they swap advice, keep diaries of what they're growing and eating, upload photos and trade excess produce with one another.Visual Calendar for Tablets (£3.91)Visual Calendar is certainly ambitious: an app that wants to "change the way you plan your life". If you think that means a slick-looking calendar app with neat coloured icons, take a bow. "Think Mind Map for your project turned into actual tasks and dates, or events and appointments from your organizer presented in an intuitive, task-oriented way," explains its Google Play listing. Well worth a look.I Am Vegend – Zombiegeddon (Free)Birds, pigs and zombies... together at last! Android game I Am Vegend has its tongue in its cheek across its 45 missions, for a game that's less a parody and more a "mind-blowing travesty of mobile game hits". It looks good fun though.First Wood War (Free)First Wood War looks like a game with plenty to chew on for more serious gamers: a real-time strategy game with a player-versus-player online mode, impressive graphics and more than 20 battle maps to explore in its solo mode. It's all set in the woods, which brings us neatly on to...Forest HD (£0.99)This sits somewhere between an app and a live wallpaper: an atmospheric virtual forest to explore, peering at birds, deer and plants, with add-on packs offering butterflies, babbling brooks and customisation.Measure Book (£1.95)Finally, Measure Book, a productivity app for people making home improvements. It lets you take photos of rooms, then insert lines and measurements to check fittings, sharing the results by email, Facebook or via cloud services Evernote and Dropbox.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Microsoft is working with manufacturers to produce a line of small Windows-powered touchscreen devices to compete with fast-selling tablets such as the iPad Mini and Amazon Kindle Fire.Peter Klein, Microsoft's chief financial officer, told investors and analysts on a conference call on Thursday that the new devices will be available in coming months at "competitive" prices.Rumours that Microsoft would seek to compete in the fast-growing "mini-tablet" space have been growing over the past weeks.Klein also hinted that an upcoming revision to Windows 8, codenamed "Blue" and due this year, will reinstate the "Start" button that has been familiar to Windows users since 1995. The changes will be partly due to "customer feedback", Klein said.Earlier in April the research companies Gartner and IDC reported a slump in PC sales, with IDC blaming it in part on Windows 8 itself because it said the new interface was puzzling would-be buyers.Yet Microsoft shrugged off a 14% slump in PC sales during the first quarter to report net income of $6.1bn (£3.9m), up 18% from $5.1bn a year ago, beating analysts' forecasts – though those had been trimmed last month in expectations that the poor computer shipments would have a deeper impact.However the company did not release any figures for licence sales of Windows 8 – a figure that some had expected to hear. The last update on that came back in January, when it said it has sold 60m – though the majority of those would be to manufacturers who bundle Windows with new machines.In adjusted figures, allowing for a $733m fine from the European Commission for briefly failing to offer a choice on browsers, and $1.1bn of "deferred" Windows revenue, overall revenues would have risen by 8%.The "deferred revenue" came from a $15 upgrade offer to Windows 8 on Windows 7 PCs that were bought after 2 June: accounting rules meant Mcirosoft couldn't record the full value of those licences until the offers were either redeemed or expired. That meant that in the recent quarter it added that deferred revenue to its figures, for a huge boost.At the company's largest division, Business, revenue rose 8% from a year ago to $6.3bn. The increase was 5% adjusting for upgrade offers for the new Office suite.But the story for the Windows division would be less rosy. Including the deferrals, revenues rose from $4.63bn to $5.70bn, up 23%. But spreading the $1.1bn over the nine-month period since 2 June, and comparing it with the same period from 2011/12, revenues were up just 4% for a period including two quarters of the launch of a new version of Windows – usually a driver of growth.Microsoft is trying to extend its software into smartphones and tablets as consumers turn away from PCs, the foundation of its empire. Over the winter, it launched two larger "convertibles" under the Surface brand, but sales so far have been slow, with analysts estimating the total at about 1.5m.In October, the company took a large stake in Barnes &amp; Noble's digital unit, which sells a line of entertainment-oriented tablets under the Nook brand.Outside the Windows division, Microsoft posted solid results from its Office, software tools and Xbox divisions.Even if the company has a lot of challenges, "there's a lot of good things going on at Microsoft," said Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Partners.The company's shares rose $0.81, or 2.8%, to $29.60 in extended trading, after the release of the report.Microsoft also said Klein is leaving at the end of the fiscal year, in June. He has been in his current role for four years and at the company for 11 years. The company plans to name a new chief financial officer in the next few weeks.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.The Future of Games: F2P Is Not Evil Nor The Only Solution | GamesIndustry InternationalWill Luton:Free-to-play has fractured the industry, creating smug preaching zealots in the column inches (hello, mum) and neo-luddite reactionaries decrying the advance from the conference podiums. Anti-F2P rhetoric from the bleeding hearts is just as much the mind-numbing wibble as "the only way" lectures from the moneymen."Public discussions and formalisation of concepts such as Skinner Box experiments and core loops seemed shallow, cold and greedy"This nonsense of drawing us-and-them divides and speaking in unwavering certainty is making fools of us all. F2P is divisive when it needn't be. This is a call for the inevitable restoration of common sense.A reasoned look at the ever-present F2P debate.The Real Sega Pluto – Assembler Games forumAn amazing post on the Assember rare games forum from someone claiming to be a former Sega employee showing off a prototype Pluto console: essentially a Saturn with a built in Netlink modem:A little more background info -- as most of you know, Sega is a company with a history of turmoil. Employee turnover is a sad theme, and the Sonic Reaper (as we call him) strikes all too frequently. As such, the past gets forgotten quickly -- treasures from the previous generation are quickly cast aside, as a new regime tries to make a name for themselves (or justify their existence). As such, some of said treasures get left on laid-off-peoples' desks. And in a beautiful twist of fate, this beauty ended up finding its way to my desk, and then in a box with the rest of my stuff when I left Sega.I was told that only two of these prototypes were made -- and this is #2.This thing is a beast, and definitely the heaviest console I've ever held in my hands. The front features two controller ports, and on top you have a flip-top drive bay, a cart slot, a Power button, and the venerable Reset button. Note that the logo still says Saturn, so I'm guessing the Pluto codename was simply that, and they were thinking of branding it with the Saturn name. (The logo is printed on production-style though, so I'm guessing they were fairly serious about this one.) The left and right sides feature beautiful-and-exotic vents, while the back is standard Saturn, save for the Netlink ports. The bottom has nothing of note except for the "PLUTO-02" sticker (which is, of course, of note).Wow, Sega really did get through almost all the solar system between Mega Drive and Dreamcast!UnderCurrent aims to bring deep sea exploration to Oculus Rift | JoystiqUnderCurrent is an Unreal-powered deep sea exploration game designed for Oculus Rift from a group of university students over in the UK. The group became fascinated with VR technology and has already put together three different levels, though the collective notes that some of the core mechanics of UnderCurrent are still undetermined.You can read more about this project on the studentworkblog.Microsoft's Zoo unveiled - screens of canned Xbox sim are Viva Pinata with Avatars | The Official MagazineOnce upon a time, Frontier Developments of Kinectimals and "David Braben hates pre-owned" fame was working on a reboot of Zoo Tycoon for Xbox, known as Microsoft Zoo. That's according to former lead artist and UI team leader Anil Glendinning, who has posted a number of screenshots on his personal site."Part zoo creation and part animal interaction, this 3rd person adventure was all charm and lay the groundwork for what would eventually become Kinectimals," Glendinning recalls.Team Bondi staff sacked, Whore of the Orient development on hold | Eurogamer.netStaff have been let go at L.A. Noire developer Team Bondi and development of its upcoming open-world game Whore of the Orient put on hold as the studio faces a new round of financial woes.Warner Bros. pulled out of its unannounced publishing deal "right before last Christmas", Superannuation reported.It's unclear how many staff remain at the developer. MCV Pacific states that the studio itself has not yet shut down.Sad news for the troubled studio – and this was a fascinating next-gen project.Are social games on Facebook really dying out? | GamasutraFirst Electronic Arts said that it is pulling its most popular games from Facebook, raising questions over whether it plans to shut down its Playfish social games subsidiary.Then figures from metrics tracking firm SuperData showed that last month, the social games segment reached a new low of $124 million in total revenue. The social games space is holding back the overall digital space, says the company.But has this week been the final nail in the coffin for the social games space, or has it simply opened up the floor for a host of new developers to try their luck?This sector clearly needs to evolve; there are plenty of companies making a success of it, but the wider possibilities of social gaming are not being explored – possibly not helped by the fact that Facebook is an ever-shifting platform.Ad-blockers, the games press, and why sexy cosplay galleries lead to better reporting | The PA ReportBen Kuchera:People like to say that the games press is just chasing page views with certain stories, but let's be honest: We're chasing page views with every story. This is the reality of the business. It takes so many page views and so many uniques to stay in business, you find yourself going after stories you know will be popular. You may pass up covering games that don't have a large following. You may break one long story into two chunks to stretch it out. You do anything to get people to click.This is an interesting and revealing piece in the financial realities of running a video game site. And it led to...My Proposed- but very likely half baked- Way To Fix Game Journalism/Criticism | davidjaffe.biz... this controversial response from game developer David Jaffe who wants to fix games journalism with crowd funding:Ok so anyway- we get a bunch of names of people doing great work in game journalism and then we- as a game community- vote and whittle it to 5 names.Then we do a yearly Kickstarter to raise 175K.125 K goes to pay 1 of the 5 reporters (pulled randomly from a hat or voted on by the folks who contributed to the Kstart) a yearly salarty. The remaining 50K goes to pay for expenses (games, travel).The reporter posts whatever they want on a blog. There is no editor, no advertising/sales group to worry about, and they can update when they want and write about whatever they want. The only harm for doing a bad job (and I define a bad job as simply filing way too few stories) is looking terrible in the public eye that funded them and wiping out their chances of being included in next year's list.Oh David,everyoneneeds an editor...You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Friday! I am visiting the Video Standards Council today!
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamUS smart sales &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansFirst, Android isn't really growing at all in the USA, at least at the big two operators. ('Other smart' is almost all Android now). All the growth is coming from iPhone.Second, there's near-zero seasonality in Android phone sales. People decide they want a phone and go out and buy whatever's in the shop at the time that looks good. Launches of 'hero' Android phones appear to have no impact at all - they may take share from other Androids, but not from iPhone and they don't increase overall sales.Third, there seems to be a complete disconnect between Android and iPhone purchasing. One can understand iPhone sales per se going up in a launch quarter, but why don't Android sales go down in those quarters? It looks like a new iPhone launch doesn't tempt in Android buyers at all.Click on a few dots and our program will guess your age!"The human motor system changes as we age. Our program will guess your age by analyzing how you click."See how it goes for you. (It was pretty inaccurate when we tried it, but might improve.)Apple's iOS mobile ad metrics dominates Android &gt;&gt; ForbesChuck Jones:MoPub is an ad-serving platform for mobile applications that allows advertisers to bid on ad inventory from thousands of iOS and Android smartphone application providers/suppliers. Over 230 Tier 1 brand advertisers (up from 180 last quarter) and 58 of the top 100 largest advertisers use MoPub. The application providers come from the US, Europe, Asia and Latin America with 45 billion monthly ad impressions (up from 30 billion last quarter) across two dozen verticals.CJ Takeaway #1: As Apple AAPL -1.83% extends its lead in mobile advertising app developers should prioritize new features and applications on iOS over Android. Note that Android tablets account for less than 1% of all mobile ad spend.CJ Takeaway #2: It could become more difficult for other platforms such as Windows and BlackBerry to gain traction with app developers.The iPhone accounts for just over half of all mobile ad spend through MoPub.Samsung Galaxy Note 8.0 review &gt;&gt; AnandtechAnand Lai Shimpi:it's tough to find fault with the Galaxy Note 8.0. It's a good size, has a good display and offers a little more than your standard Android tablet. The inclusion of the S Pen, IR blaster and multi-window features aren't enough to justify the price premium over a Nexus 7 for me personally, but I can see how they would convince others. If you want a one-handed note taking assistant on the go and/or constantly find yourself wishing you could read email and browse the web on your tablet, then the Galaxy Note 8.0 is without equal in the Android or iOS space. The S Pen experience on the Note isn't perfect, it's definitely not as natural as writing on real paper with an actual pen, but at this price point it's surprisingly decent. You can definitely get a better pen experience on Microsoft's Surface Pro, particularly when it comes to drawing, but at more than 2x the cost.Where the Note 8.0 falls short is primarily in its battery life. In general you're looking at anywhere from 10 - 40% less time on a single charge compared to the iPad mini, despite having a slightly larger battery. Power efficiency is just as important as outright performance, and this is something the folks at Samsung's SoC division have yet to master.Nokia faces the feature phone collapse it dodged in 2012 &gt;&gt; BGRTero Kuittinen:In the spring of 2012, Nokia started rolling out a broad new range of Asha feature phones and managed to astonish Wall Street for a couple of quarters. The phones actually sold. Priced at 60-90 euros, they were cheaper than even cheapest Android smartphones and had a sleek, glossy new look. They offered many advanced features like downloadable games and great email support. For a while, Nokia enjoyed an Indian summer — feature phone ASP only declined by -3% during the third quarter in 2012.And now the respite is over.Nokia shipped as many Lumia phones during the first quarter as Wall Street expected but the Asha magic has evaporated and feature phone ASP levels are now tanking hard once again. The average price of Nokia's feature phones tumbled by a drastic -15% year on year, while feature phone shipment volume dove by -21%. This is a truly dangerous combination; even steep price cuts are not helping the moderate sales decline.What this rural school district learned from rolling out 250 Android tablets &gt;&gt; CITEworldOne 7th grade class used their tablets' cameras for a photo scavenger hunt, while a social studies class held a mock parliament and used their tablets to draft legislature and tally votes in real time. A math teacher uses their SMART Board to post whiteboard notes to a Wiki that students can access from their tablets. Another project involved actually building their own apps on the tablet.There are some growing pains to consider when the pilot concludes at school year's end. While younger teachers are entirely on board with the 1:1 project, more established teachers may require some training.Also, since there are so few tablets, students aren't allowed to take them home except by special dispensation and a sign-out sheet. That means that there aren't many problems with students putting inappropriate content on the device or trying to sneak around the web filter, but it also means that students don't have 24/7 access to the next-generation learning tools they use during the school day.The current priority for Guritz and his team is to gather data. The Lenovo tablets were originally chosen because the price was right, and even if they only run Android 3.1 Honeycomb now, they can be upgraded to a more current version of Android down the line.Why LinkedIn dumped HTML5 &amp; went native for its mobile apps &gt;&gt; VentureBeatVentureBeat: So what would it take for mobile web technologies to meet the needs of a company like LinkedIn and with apps as widely used as yours?[Kirin] Prasad [LinkedIn sr director for mobile engineering]: There are a few things that are critically missing. One is tooling support — having a debugger that actually works, performance tools that tell you where the memory is running out.If you look at Android and iOS, there are two very large corporations that are focused on building tools to give a lot of detailed information when things go wrong in production. On the mobile web side, getting those desktop tools to work for mobile devices is really difficult.The second big chunk we are struggling with is operability, runtime diagnostics information. Even now, when we build HTML5, we build it as a client-side app. It's more of a client-server architecture. … The operability of that, giving us information when we're distributed to a large volume of users, there aren't as many great tools to support that, as well.Hard to see how HTML5 will get those tools before native apps, and how native apps won't get improved versions of those tools before HTML5.Apple calls out Google on flawed search methodology, responsibility for Android's infringement &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsGoogle's search results for the purposes of document production in this litigation have been so poor in connection with certain keywords that Apple "wants to work cooperatively with Google to correct these flaws". For the next step Apple proposes that Google be required to provide a "list of search terms and custodians". Apple considers this a "necessary first step [...] to obtain fulsome and meaningful discovery from a key player in the subject matter of this case".Apple believes Google purposely uses suboptimal search terms. For example, Apple claims to know that Google uses a different term internally for what Apple calls "slide to unlock". As a result, searches for "slide to unlock" wouldn't deliver too many documents in which Google employees discussed this patented technology.Google argues that it would be an undue burden to require disclosure of the search terms used, and whether or not a certain burden is acceptable depends on the status of a party. In this context, Google claims that it's merely a third party, and third parties enjoy stronger protection against allegedly-burdensome discovery requests than parties to a dispute.Google is trying to play it both ways: claiming to be a "third party" in the Samsung-Apple litigation but also claiming "common interest privilege" with Samsung to decline to produce documents about Android.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The House of Representatives passed a controversial cybersecurity bill on Thursday in the face of warnings that it undermined privacy and a threat from White House advisers warning they would recommend President Barack Obama veto the legislation.The Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (Cispa) passed by a 288-127 vote, receiving support from 92 Democrats. It will move to the Senate and then to the president's desk.The bill allows private businesses to share customers' personal information with any government entity, including the National Security Agency.Reintroduced in February after failing to pass Congress last year, the bill would afford legal protection to the government and businesses to share data with each other on cyber threats.Its co-author, Mike Rogers, the intelligence committee chairman and a Republican from Michigan, argues that cyberattacks and espionage, particularly from China, where a number of high profile attacks have originated recently, are a number one threat to US economic security."We have a constitutional obligation to defend this nation," said Rogers, on the House floor. "This is the answer to empower cyber information sharing to protect this nation, to allow those companies to protect themselves and move on to economic prosperity. If you want to take a shot across China's bow, this is the answer."Earlier this week, Rogers dismissed opponents of the bill as teenagers in their basements.Dutch Ruppersberger, a Democrat of Maryland, the other co-author of the bill, said on Wednesday during debate on the issue that $400bn worth of American trade secrets are being stolen by US companies every year."If your house is being robbed, you call 911 and the police department comes. That's the same scenario we are looking at here," he said.At one point, Mike McCaul, a Republican from Texas, attempted to draw a comparison between the terror attack in Boston on Monday and cyberterrorism, to draw support for the bill's aim to improve security. "Recent events in Boston demonstrate that we have to come together as Republicans and Democrats," he said, according to Reuters."In the case of Boston, there were real bombs," said McCaul. "In this case, they are digital bombs – and these digital bombs are on their way."Nancy Pelosi, the House Minority leader, expressed the same concerns shared by the White House and civil liberty groups that the bill had failed to strike a "crucial balance between security and liberty"."Im disappointed that we did not address some of the concerns mentioned by the White House about personal information," Pelosi said. "Unfortunately, it offers no policies and did not allow any amendments or real solution that upholds Americans' right to privacy."Last year, global protests by a coalition of internet activists and web companies, including Google and Wikipedia and Twitter, scuppered a similar bill, the Hollywood-backed Stop Online Piracy Act. At the time they warned that future attempts to push through legislation that threatened digital freedoms would be met with a similar response.Holmes Wilson, co-founder of online advocacy group Fight For the Future, said he and other critics would continue to lobby against Cispa. "It would have been so easy to fix this bill and require sites to strip out personal information before passing them to the government." he said.He said amendments had been made in closed sessions and it was "not out of the question" that privacy protections had been left out intentionally at the behest of the intelligence agencies.House intelligence committee leaders addressed some privacy concerns by endorsing an amendment that gave the job of clearing house for the exchange data to the Department of Homeland Security and the Justice Department, rather than a military agency.The bill has attracted support from tech giants including IBM who are keen for liability protection from consumers whose information they have shared, said Wilson. "Right now if the government wants users' information, the company can say no because it opens them up to being sued," he said. "If Cispa passes, there will be no legal restraint."Kurt Opsahl, senior staff attorney for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which had unsuccessfully urged the House to adopt an amendment that would have allowed companies to make a privacy contract with their customers, said it was a "poorly drafted" bill that would present a "gaping exception to bedrock privacy law".The American Civil Liberties Union, one of 34 groups that wrote to lawmakers this week urging them to oppose the bill, said they would work with Congress to ensure the next version of information-sharing legislation resolves the privacy issue and protects personal information online."CISPA is an extreme proposal that allows companies that hold our very sensitive information to share it with any company or government entity they choose, even directly with military agencies like the NSA, without first stripping out personally identifiable information,"said Michelle Richardson, legislative counsel at the ACLU's Washington Legislative Office.A Sunlight Foundation report recently revealedthat interest groups in support of the bill spent $605m from 2011 to the third quarter of 2012 – 140 times as much lobbying Congress as those on the other side of the debate, who spent $4.3m.The bill's opponents, which include digital rights organisations and Internet companies like Reddit and Craiglist, petitioned the White House and submitted more than 300,000 signatures to the House Intelligence Committee. Microsoft and Facebook also oppose the bill, according to Reuters.Several influential industry groups had come out in support of the bill, including the wireless group CTIA, the US Chamber of Commerce and TechNet, which represents large internet and technology companies.
I don't expect you've tried replacing Windows 8 with Windows 7 Pro. Well, it's not that simple! I'm attempting to change the operating system on my wife's new Dell laptop from Windows 8 to 64-bit Windows 7 Pro. I spent three hours last night, found that I had to change the Registry, attempted to do this four times and then gave up! Is there a way to get the laptop to boot up from the CD/DVD drive?BenYou're right: I haven't tried replacing Windows 8 with Windows 7 Pro, so I can only point to the dark areas and say "here be dragons". In fact, I recommend against it, because I don't see the point: you end up with an operating system that does not work as well as Windows 8, or possibly at all. It's simpler to change Windows 8 so the user interface (UI) is more like Windows 7.Either way, I trust you took a full back-up of the original hard drive and created whatever restore media the system recommended before embarking on your adventure. You should never make changes that you can't reverse, and that's your (and every other reader's)responsibility, not mine.Things have changedThere may be problems with downgrading a Windows 8 PC, partly because some have new form factors (tablet/laptop hybrids) that were never designed to run Windows 7. Windows 8 PCs are also different from the previous generation in having a new UEFI (Unified Extensible Firmware Interface) system with Secure Boot and Fast Startup. Further, they use aGPT (GUID Partition Table)to control the disk partitioning, rather than the old MBR (Master Boot Record), which was vulnerable to rootkit malware.A Dell Windows 8 hard drive may have a UEFI System Partition, an OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) Partition, two Recovery Partitions for refreshing and restoring the operating system, and a Primary partition that includes Windows 8 and its applications. The Primary partition is the one you can see.The new system is designed to protect users from malware (Apple and Android tablets and mobile phones are locked down in a similar way), and to enable people to rescue their PCs if something goes wrong.All these things are a great step forward for the 99% of users who buy a PC with an integrated operating system and never want to change it.They make things harder for the 1% who do, but at least Secure Boot can be disabled: you don't have to find a security flaw that can be used to "jailbreak" a PC.But if you can get Windows 7 installed, you may find that you don't have all the drivers required to support the Windows 8 hardware, and it's unlikely that the PC manufacturer will supply them. Some PC manufacturers may also refuse to provide software support if you're not running the original operating system. I would expect them to provide hardware support, though they might insist you re-install the original software first. (If you don't, support personnel can't run through the standard tests and scripts they have for your hardware.)Perhaps you should contact Dell support before going further.Business or consumer version?There are two different cases with downgrades, for consumer and business machines. First, there's the Windows 8 sold to consumers pre-installed as part of a package deal. This does not have downgrade rights, so you will need a full copy of Windows 7 and a product key to install and activate it. Retail copies of Windows 7 are not cheap.You don't have a licence to install a copy of Windows 7 from another PC, even if you have the DVD. If you install it, Microsoft will refuse to activate it.Second, there's the Windows 8 Pro sold to businesses. Microsoft knows that businesses like to keep all their PCs running the same operating system and they are slow to adopt new ones, so the Pro versions of Windows include downgrade rights. This means that Microsoft expects many businesses to replace Windows 8 Pro with 7 Pro.If your wife's Dell is a business machine, it could have Windows 8 Pro installed, so a downgrade to 7 Pro should be relatively simple. Start by disabling Secure Boot in Windows 8's Settings and use the Legacy BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) provided for backwards compatibility.In the BIOS, change the Legacy Boot Order to DVD. I would also disable the Fast Boot system which is hidden away in a System Settings screen under Power Options.You should now be able to reboot and install a full copy of Windows 7 Pro in the usual way, but you will have to enter a valid product key.This key will fail online activation, so you will need to activate it over the phone. To do this, tell Microsoft you are downgrading and tell it the Windows 8 Pro key from your wife's Dell.Home optionsIf it's a consumer version of Windows 8, you may still have a number of options. You can try installing your full copy of Windows 7 alongside Windows 8 in a dual-boot format (seeHow to Dual Boot Windows 8 with Windows 7) or perhaps install it in a "virtual PC". (Windows 8 Pro comes with a powerful virtual PC calledClient Hyper-V, but it's not part of the consumer version, which I have not got.)If you can boot from your Windows 7 DVD, you should be able to install it as a replacement operating system, rather than a downgrade. The 64-bit version of Windows 7 Pro supports GPT partitions, and it should work if you choose Custom (Advanced), select a partition and click Format. (Obviously this will delete the contents of that partition.)If not, you could take the nuclear option, and reformat the whole hard drive.Alternatively, perhaps you could restore your wife's Dell to its Windows 8 factory condition, swap in a new hard drive, and do a clean installation of Windows 7. This avoids the problem of removing Windows 8 without being able to complete the installation or activation of Windows 7. If this results in a non-working PC, you can put the original drive back.Suffice it to say that the downgrade is not a quick option, unless you're an IT department with a volume licensing deal and access to drive images that you can simply copy across. It's a much better idea to buy a business PC that ships with Windows 7 installed and includes a free upgrade to Windows 8.The software optionBut I think there are better options. The best idea is tolearn how to use Windows 8, which doesn't take long. The equivalent of the Windows 7 desktop is still there underneath the Start screen, and it only takes one click to get to it.If your wife doesn't want to do that, you can install software that changes or bypasses the Start screen altogether. Stardock's $4.99Start8looks like a good solution. It lets you boot straight to the Windows 8 desktop and makes it work more like Windows 7.With Start8, you don't lose the speed, security improvements and new features in Windows 8, and you can still run the modern (tablet-style)app included with Windows 8 or downloaded from the Windows Store.Later this year, Microsoft may do something similar to Start8 with its Windows 8.1 update, known as Blue. Indeed, users can expect a stream of improvements as Microsoft sorts out problems and responds to criticisms. Windows 8 is a work in progress, but it's not going away.The future of WindowsWindows 8 represents a huge new undertaking. It provides a compatible interface on everything from mobile phones and touch-based tablets (and perhaps a new Xbox games console) through laptops and desktops to mainframe class servers. It includes new cloud services via a Microsoft identity (so any Windows 8 machine becomes your Windows 8 machine when you log in), powerful search and sharing, a shiny new platform architecture for programmers (Windows Runtime or WinRT), and the new Windows Store, among other things. It's part of a significant advance into a future where Microsoft believes most devices will be mobile, touch-oriented and always connected. Those are all areas where Windows 7 falls short.In addition, Windows 8 brings in amodern design languagethat puts "content before chrome". It's already visible in Windows 8 and Microsoft Office, in the newOutlook.comemail service that has replaced Hotmail, and in the free Microsoft Office programs in SkyDrive. Similar user interfaces are also being adopted by independent websites under the "flat UI" slogan: see, for example,What is flat design?.Microsoft still has a lot of work to do, but it has time. The bulk of its sales and profits come from business versions of Windows and Windows applications on PCs and servers, and Microsoft will support businesses using Windows 7 until at least2020.My main machines are still running Windows 7 as well. But in 2020, perhaps most of us will be on Windows 10, and looking back, we'll wonder what all the fuss was about.
A bit of happy news for once - and from Barnsley, to boot.Facebook, for all its foibles, serves a certain public duty: enabling friends to keep in touch overseas and making it easy for the lovelorn to stalk their exes. But how often can Mark Zuckerberg boast that his social networking site reunites teenage boys with their birds? Of prey, that is (you are reading the Guardian, remember).But that's exactly what happened in Barnsley recently, when 17-year-old James Dickinson lost his beloved lanner falcon during a flying display over South Yorkshire.The young female falcon, named Nekala, was his pride and joy and when she didn't come back for four days he thought she was gone forever. Memories of the Ken Loach classic will have added to his anguish: Kes, you will remember, ends up in a dustbin after getting into the hands of Billy's horrible half-brother.Happily in this case, life did not echo fiction. As luck would have it, the young bird took off towards the Yorkshire Wolds and landed just a few miles from the home of wildlife artist Robert E Fuller.The wildlife artist's extensive knowledge of birds of prey meant that he was able to identify the falcon immediately and advertise its loss on hisFacebook page, where he has a large following of bird lovers."A neighbouring farmer spotted her and noticed that she was ringed, so rang me up," said the artist, whose home and gallery is based in Thixendale, North Yorkshire."I drove out and picked her up, then posted a picture of her with an appeal on Facebook. By the following morning I'd found her owner!""Amazing what social media can do. I'm just so pleased that they are reunited, James was so happy to have her back!"Nakela had travelled a good 70 miles. Alas, she had chewed the aerial off the transmitter that was attached to her leg when she flew off, so James could not track her.James, who works at a falconry centre in Oxenhope, West Yorkshire, had been showing the lanner falcon when she did not return from a display flight.Chris Johnson, of SMJ Falconry, said they had driven for miles and walked the surrounding area calling for the bird, but had almost given up hope of finding her.James' mother Bev Dickinson said: "My son is overjoyed at getting Nekala back. At 17 he tried hard not to shed a tear, but we are so grateful and thankful that she seems OK."
Free kick. Penalty. In the real game these words are likely to be greeted with expectant joy from supporters and players on the right side of the decision. In the Fifa series, though, they often invoke indifference or even dread. That's because, for many, scoring from a set-piece in Fifa is a sort of halcyon moment, as rare, magical and incomprehensible as falling in love at first sight, or viewing a meteor shower. My free kick attempts will tend to go anywhere – row Z, out for a throw in, into another game – rather than the goal. Most of the time, I just opt for a short pass. And penalties? The controls seemed so sensitive I always ended up tapping most of mine limply down the middle, like Gareth Southgate at Euro 96 – over and over again.Last year, however, the Fifa development team at EA Sports finally realised something had to be done, so they introduced Skill Games, a selection of mini-challenges designed to teach you how to use various in-game moves and systems. The shooting and crossing ones were useful, but the set-piece tutorials were a bloody revelation, finally letting average gamers into an arcane world of penalty-taking confidence. Now, at least 68% of my kicks go into one of the corners of the net, rather than into the fuzzy face of a simply animated spectator. And it's great because it doesn't feel like a tutorial mode: in each challenge you can continually improve on your performance so it's like a series of mini-games rather than going to football school and being told you're an idiot.It's little wonder then that this new feature has been a success. According to EA, 2.29bn skill games have been played since the launch of Fifa 13 last autumn. And so for Fifa 14, the mode is to be extended – familiar challenges are going to be tweaked, and new tasks are being added. During a recent demo session, producer Nick Channon showed off a selection of the newcomers. One is a distance shooting exercise with a line of balls just outside the 18-yard area – the player has to run along and belt all of these into the goal.More interesting though are the team mate exercises. In one, your player has to run the length of the pitch making one-two passes with other players en route, before finally shooting. Better still, there's a little group task, where seven players in a small box must one-touch pass the ball between them for as long as possible as defenders run about trying to intercept. This one will be familiar to anyone who's actually played for a team, and brings more of a sense of actual football practise to the mode.Elsewhere, the studio is making some key changes to the Career Mode, which lets you compete as a manager or player over a number of seasons. The user interface is being completely overhauled to make it easier to navigate and more logical – the squad screen, for example, has a nice graphic of your first eleven, with each icon showing a range of stats so you get a visual representation rather than having to drill down into multiple screens. From the brief glimpse I got, there's a slight look of Windows 8 about it all – it has that clean, box-based feel. Apparently, email notifications can also be tailored so you're not constantly interrupted by irrelevant spam as you advance though the season - now, only really important messages will be mandatory reads.Fifa 14: Career Mode global scouting reportFifa 14 is also adding a new global scouting network, which will allow managers to set up searches for fresh talent based on player traits and tendencies rather than stats.  For Channon, this is about creating a much more authentic system. "A manager doesn't go in saying I want a 75 rated player," he says. "Instead, with the new scouting system you say, I want a pacy winger, I want a good holding midfielder, I want a big striker I can play the ball up to. You can then go and scout those players. Clearly if you're after a Messi or an Ibrahimovic, you're not going to have to scout them, but what about a longer term player who's cheaper but has the potential to grow? Instead of searching all the ratings, you can think about the types of players you want and scout based on that."So in Fifa 14, you get a series of putdown menus providing specific wish lists to your scout. You can define that you'd like, say, a tall centre back from South America with good dribbling skills; your scout then packs his sun tan lotion and he's off. Apparently, the longer you leave him out there, the more accurate his report becomes, so there's a long term challenge here, stretching out the transfer system so that it takes in the whole season. "We have a dedicated database team working on all this, which is now quite big thanks to the Match Day feature, says Channon. "They have processes in place for managing player stats and traits. But the game still has to be fun. We have to maintain the entertainment factor."Talking about all the changes, Channon says that part of the challenge is learning from feedback, but not reacting immediately. "We look at what the team thinks, what we've learned, things we couldn't get to - then as soon as the demo hits, we get customer feedback. And then when the game is released we get a massive amount more. But we can't just react to the first couple of days. Look at tactical defending: when we first released the demo, the reaction was 'oh my goodness, this is really different', but actually that quickly went away because everyone got used to it. We know that when we make big changes like first touch control, people initially react negatively, but often they'll say, this makes sense, I can't go back."So. just a few extra snippets from Fifa 14 there, and EA will no doubt be revealing more about multiplayer aspects as we head into summer. And while the release date is likely to be the end of September, the big question is over what formats the game will appear on. At the start of our press demo last week, EA made it clear that they wold only be discussing the PS3, Xbox and PC versions of the game – which of course, pretty much confirmed that next-gen versions will be announced. It's likely we'll get Fifa 14 for current platforms in September, then updated special editions for the new PlayStation and Xbox platforms later.One thing's for sure, we can expect ever closer integration with the real sport and an increasingly pervasive feel to the series. Last year's Match Day feature ripped information and stories from the actual season and put them into the commentary and player form stats. Meanwhile, the EA Sports Football Club smartphone app also allowed Ultimate Team fans to play around with their squads while on the move. EA Sports is keen on expanding these elements – it wants us to be constantly in touch with the game; on phones, tablets and consoles, wherever we are, checking team info, tweaking formations, comparing real-world news to in-game seasons. Of course, some people hate all of this, but it's increasingly where big gaming franchises are going – and it will get much more interesting with the next-gen machines. EA just doesn't want to talk about it. Yet.• You can read our main preview of Fifa 14here.
Twitter has launched what it described as a 21st century version of the mixtape, with a new app that recommends tracks to music fans based on the artists they follow.Fans of artists such as One Direction or Adele will be able to listen to their latest hits from within the social nework using the #Music app.A #NowPlaying screen will show Twitter users all the songs being tweeted by the people they follow, famous or not, and let them listen along.The service, available onthe #Music siteand as an app for the Apple iPhone or iPad, launched on Thursday in the US, Canada, the UK, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand."Twitter and music go great together. People share and discover new songs and albums every day," said Twitter's Stephen Philips in a blog poston the company's official website."Many of the most-followed accounts on Twitter are musicians, and half of all users follow at least one musician. This is why artists turn to Twitter first to connect with their fans — and why we wanted to find a way to surface songs people are tweeting about."Twitter has linked up with three music companies for the launch: the downloads store Apple iTunes and streaming services Spotify and Rdio.The app works by detecting the most popular tracks from the people you follow, while also highlighting emerging artists. Apple iTunes will only play previews of songs as default, but premium subscribers of Spotify and Rdio can listen to full tracks.The move is part of an attempt to reposition Twitter as an entertainment hub online, bringing it closer to the multimedia social network that Facebook has become over the past two years.The app had a lukewarm reception from some music analysts, who questioned whether it was enough to keep users returning to the site instead of Facebook."My question is where is the money for Twitter? For the recorded music industry, the recommendations thing is old hat because that's the function of charts and airplay, so  there's not really any incremental value there," said Alice Enders, the music expert at Enders Analysis."And then, do I care about what Sally Bercow is listening to? If I follow an opinion maker, not an artist, I might really prefer to stick to their opinions than their dodgy musical tastes."•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@guardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
My mother popped up on Facebook a few months ago as a "suggested friend". Her smile came up on the side of my screen, and I couldn't help but let my mouse gravitate to her name and linger over it.With most people, if their mothers are already on Facebook then they're already "friends". But I became estranged from my parents half a decade ago, and hadn't exchanged words with my mother for over four years.At a time when there's so much discussion about a "right to be forgotten" and methods to delete your digital life, I've done a lot to digitally forget my parents, and delete them from my digital life. I'd rejected invitations to connect from their work colleagues and friends so that snippets of their life wouldn't flash incidentally into mine and tempt me to linger.Yet within seconds of my mother's profile flashing up on the screen, I found myself wading through my parents' most recent social occasions. It was exactly as I feared: they appeared absolutely fine. Dad was wallpapering in socks and sandals in a house in Coffs Bay, smiling. Mum had commented underneath: "my hero wallpapering". Next they were sat on a grassy hill, holding up glasses of white wine, beaming in the sun. That particular album was labelled London 2012. Image by image, I saw them posing outside the monuments in our capital and my current home.I know – you're expecting the film script trajectory: the images lead me to end the estrangement, the family is reconciled, and in a faraway office Mark Zuckerberg smiles and rings a bell as another angel gets its wings.Sorry. Not so. Instead, my reaction was to think: how could they just turn up and smile in a city where they knew that their daughter is living, breathing and working? I slammed my computer shut. I knew too much.It was the resolute happiness that was shocking, and my mum's profile picture continued to nag me all week. Then it hit me: if she ever saw my profile then I'd be smiling back. My page is a savvy edit of my best happenings – picnics, festivals, and holidays in Barcelona. There are no posts about the sleepless nights and awkward moments where I struggle to explain to people why I don't "have a family". I didn't post a screenshot of the letters I sent them, trying to discuss our feud rationally and asking the questions that were natural to ask.Perhaps I've been quietly coerced into thinking that positivity is the currency in which our online profiles trade, and so I instinctively stay away from the sombre. This illustrates the dichotomy inherent to social networking: the digital world allows for "togetherness" in which we "share our lives" with people around the world - yet conversely it can distance us from friends' fully dimensional experiences of life.This permanent state of online happiness, as projected by a profile, can be mentally destabilising for those with discordant relationships. Dr Joshua Coleman, a psychologist based in San Francisco who is a specialist in estrangement, and author of When Parents Hurt, observes: "We have never in our history been as accessible to our family and friends. Social media, on the one hand, allows us to connect quickly to those we love. On the other, it allows those that we love - oronceloved – enormous power to reach us and hurt us from almost anywhere in the world."He explains one easy way of doing that: "announcing critical events such as weddings, while not letting the family member know directly, and tormenting the person in isolation by posting photographs of events where they were absent."It seems this issue is amplified by the prolific use of images. For me, the photographs I gazed at alluded to my parents' satisfaction in isolation, yet at the same time allowed me a vicarious experience of that happiness. For a few minutes I was reallywiththem in London, experiencing their wonder and excitement – only to remember soon after that I wasn't really welcome, not with my questions.This could be an issue with privacy, as my mother's photographs were all accessible without our being online friends. The question remains: should social networking sites step up and offer to help those who don't wish to be reminded of their estrangement? Facebook claims to have the advantage of being able to block users, whereas you wouldn't be able to block a person if you encountered them on the street.Yet privacy settings on sites such as Facebook have long been documented as difficult to manoeuvre. You could argue that that's only really an issue for older users who might not be as web-savvy. But there was no way I could have prevented my mum from popping up as a "suggested friend" until it happened. She was linked to me through others. I had her old email stored in an old account. It was, in a sense, inevitable.Then again, my experience is by no means definitive. Such gaps in privacy can allow others the glimpse of a life they may actually yearn to know about. In cases where an adult child becomes estranged, parents may see new grandchildren through profile pictures, keep tabs with their child's musings via Twitter, and celebrate job success through LinkedIn.Yet estranged individuals can find that the primary advantage of social networking sites is that they offer a less intimidating route to reconciliation. Kevin Allan [not his real name] used them to overcome the anxiety of getting back in touch with his estranged family. He told me: "the action of adding someone [on a social network] isn't like calling [on the phone] or turning up on a doorstep. It's less confrontational." As a result of adding his father as a Facebook friend, Kevin was able to see parts of his life and they decided to meet.For some, being a Facebook friend is enough to qualify as being in touch with their family, defying the stigma that surrounds estrangement. For many, the complexities of the relationship are what lead to the estrangement in the first place. Coleman says: "It's useful to remember the positive aspects to a person when thinking about reconciling with a family member. This will give us a better chance of seeing the process through. Social media may give an easy entry into a conversation by providing real-time achievements, events and points of shared interest." If social media can facilitate such positivity, albeit about career or personal life, it could be seen as a useful tool in developing the mindset needed for the reconciliation process itself.Estrangement is a loss, and a unique loss. For the five years before my mother was a suggested friend, I knew my parents were in the world somewhere. But only through social media did I find out exactly where. I asked Coleman if it is ever really possible to be estranged from your family when online culture is so prevalent. His answer seems straightforward: "Yes. But you need to stay off your computer."It's a tall order. I work in a world that demands an online presence, and there are many like me who can't work without those tools. I can't delete my digital life. It seems my only option is to wait anxiously for another reminder of my parents' denial and my difficult childhood to rap loudly at my digital door, wrapped in a smiling suggestion that we hook up. Except the computer that has mediated the meeting has no concept of life or its complications - only tables in a database that have found a match.Becca Bland worked on the BBC Radio 4 series The Digital Human. For more about estrangement in the digital age visit the webpage for 'The Digital Human'
The representation of women in video games has become a hot topic over the last year, fed by controversies over Lara Croft, the Tropes vs Women Kickstarter and many other flashpoints. While current industry statistics show that female players now make up half the audience for games, there are still very few releases with women in lead roles. Furthermore, women are very poorly represented in games development, providing less then 10% of the creative workforce in the US and Europe.At the Game Developers' Conference in San Francisco last month, the whole issue of representation, including gender, LGBT and race, became a key focus. Several sessions and "developer rants" dealt with the limited depiction of characters outside of the white male demographic, leading to a series of major Twitter storms and lots of debate via blogs and game sites.So does the industry have a problem with representation, both in games and in the development workplace? To discuss this, Guardian games correspondent Keith Stuart recently spoke to Jo Twist, chief executive of trade bodyUKIE; game developerMitu Khandaker; and games writer and producer,Cara Ellison. The results can be heard in this podcast.During the debate, we also mentioned lots of interesting games, designers and academics, and wanted to provide links to some of those:Anna Anthropy:game designer, responsible for a series of titles exploring gender and sexuality, including Dys4ia. Here'sa transcription of the poem, Romero's Wives, that she read at GDC.Tom Abernathy:A narrative designer at Microsoft Studios. He gave a talk at GDC about how increasing diversity in games would be good for business. "Women are not a small special market on the fringe of the core," he says at one point. "Women are the new core." More infohere.Terry CavanaghandPorpentine:game designers who spoke at GDC about free indie games. There's coverage of their sessionhere.Daniel Cook:game designer atSpry Fox. He wrote about the macho culture at Microsofthere.Anna Marsh:game designer atLady Shotgun. Spoke at GDC about the damaging culture of 'crunch' in games development. There's a transcription of her sessionhere.Here is the video clip of Toby Gard talking about player reactions to Lara Croft. It's from the Critical Path interview archive.Here is the sequence in the Channel 4 comedy series Spaced, where Simon Pegg's character drowns Lara Croft.The Observer has also recently featured an article on representation in games, which ran after we recorded this discussion. You can find ithere.
Nokia appears to be edging back into the smartphone race, after reporting a 27% rise in sales of the Lumia touch screen handsets on which chief executive Stephen Elop has staked the future of the company.Despite competition from the latest Apple phone, Lumia shipments reached 5.6m in the first quarter of this year, and Nokia is forecasting they will rise as much again in the June quarter, reaching over 7m.This would leave Finnish manufacturer with the beginnings of a sustainable smartphone business, although still some way behind the 37m iPhones analysts estimate Apple has sold this year and Samsung's 62m shipments.But Nokia's forecast was greeted with scepticism by some analysts. "We struggle to understand how this number is possible without either the beginning of consumer traction, or a massive channel inventory stuffing," said Pierre Ferragu, at Bernstein Research.The boost to Lumia devices, which run on Microsoft's Windows Phone software, was not enough to prevent Nokia's overall revenues crashing 27% from the previous quarter after sales of basic phones fell faster than expected. Consumers are opting for fully fledged internet phones, denting demand for the traditionally large volume of basic phones made by Nokia. The company sold 62m handsets in the quarter, well below the 73m units predicted by Wall Street, which had forecast revenues of €6.5bn. Nokia achieved just €5.85bn."We remain focused on moving through our transition, which includes continuing to improve our product competitiveness, accelerate the way we operate and manage our costs effectively," Elop said.Sales of its Asha full touch smartphones, aimed at shoppers in developing economies, fell from 9.3m before Christmas to 5m.The company swung into an operating loss of €150m, down from a profit €439m in the Christmas quarter, and both revenues and profits declined at all three of its main divisions. Compared to the Christmas quarter, revenues at its handset arm were down 25%, its digital mapping division revenues fell 22%, and Nokia Siemens Networks, which employs the majority of the company's staff and is a major cash generator, lost 30% of its income and sale profits fall from €252m to €3m.However the company's cash reserves, severely depleted last year as Nokia funded its turnaround strategy, increased by €120m to €4.5bn, thanks to profits from Nokia Siemens Networks and the regular quarterly payment of $250m from Microsoft to help market the Windows Phone software used in Lumia handsets.
Peter Molyneux didn't make his name in the games industry by shying away from ambitious, risky projects, from god games Populous and Powermonger through Black &amp; White, the Fable games and prototype Kinect title Project Milo.2012 saw him exploring new frontiers through indie studio22cans. First with a freemium massively-multiplayer tile-chipping game for iOS and Android calledCuriosity – What's Inside the Cube, and then byraising £527k on Kickstarterto make Project Godus, a "reinvention of Populous" for Mac, PC and mobile devices.What has Molyneux learned from the last 12 months? In a keynote session at theF2P Summit conferencein London, he explained, starting with the development problem that he thinks free-to-play games are solving."In a way, we've always had this problem when we've made computer games," he said, describing the experience of spending 2-3 years making a Fable game with a team of 100-150 people, releasing it on a Friday, and then hearing players boasting about having completed it by the Saturday."There was the realisation that in certain circumstances it [free-to-play] can stretch that gameplay time out so that people don't obsessively play for six or more hours," he said. "It does pull out that time, and it requires people to wait and see what comes up."Molyneux also said free-to-play solves another specific problem for traditional games developers – "this terrible phrase from marketing: 'Can we have a demo of the game?'" that often came at the crunch point for development."That's another thing that free-to-play did. The game itself is the demo, and the demo is the game," said Molyneux."I've been wanting something like free-to-play as a designer for years and years, and now it's here I'm absolutely fascinated by it."He admitted that there are plenty of design challenges, including keeping the quality level high for a game where new content is being regularly made available for its players."I have to bully myself to think in a very different way. It's less about bombarding the player with feature after feature. It's more about stretching those features out," said Molyneux, who talked enthusiastically about the power of anticipation, and the fact that "if you stretch it perfectly, people will do unbelievable things to achieve a certain goal."Curiosity lessonsCuriosity is the "hyper-example" of that, as millions of players downloaded it to chip away at surfaces of a giant cube with the ultimate aim of revealing what lay at its centre. It was 22cans' first game after the studio was founded in early 2012."I thought that free-to-play – this idea of giving people an experience that is free and which they can play around with was something we needed to play around with," he said."I tried to think of the simplest thing for our team to get its teeth into… And I thought in my naive mind that this would be something the world would take a look at, and that would be the end of it."Curiosity really was an experiment, then. Just an experiment that was downloaded by millions within its first few days on the app stores, which in turn saw 22cans struggling to scale its back-end infrastructure to cope."It was insanely successful, and in that success was our biggest challenge," said Molyneux. "Within a few days, the response times had gone down to minutes rather than fractions of a second. We had to panic and solve that."One feature that never made it into Curiosity was plans to charge $77k for an in-app purchase of a "Diamond Chisel" tool to vastly speed up the chipping process. Why not?"It was a challenge to get the platform-holders like Apple and Android to understand what we were really trying to experiment with," said Molyneux."With the Diamond Chisel, our ambition was to charge an impossibly-high amount – so high that no one in the world would buy it. It was more the psychology of knowing that this hugely valuable thing was there… But when we submitted the app to platform holders like the App Store, they turned around and said 'Oh my goodness, you can't charge that amount!'"22cans did manage to sell lower-priced virtual items in Curiosity: a draw mode for players with artistic intentions, access to more statistics for others, and a fun "Golden Badger" character for younger players.Molyneux didn't give revenue figures – other than saying that the Android version of Curiosity generates a quarter of the revenues of the iOS version – but said the 69p stats purchase was "by far and away the most successful" of the three.Curiosity – What's Inside the Cube?F2P v consoleThe experience has left Molyneux more enthusiastic about free-to-play gaming than ever, it's fair to say. He had some thoughts on how these games differ from traditional console titles too."If you think of console games as the equivalent of films – you go to the cinema, you watch it, consume it, you're done with it – that's what I think console games are like," he said."I think free-to-play games are more like TV series. You watch a TV series for half an hour or 40 minutes, wait for a period of time then watch another one. That's more like what free-to-play is."Molyneux noted that just as TV shows are crafted around that mode of consumption – end-of-episode cliffhangers being one example – the best free-to-play games must be structured around the habits of their players.There's a downside, though. Molyneux criticised (while not naming) "some bad examples of people trying to squeeze more money out of consumers" with free-to-play titles, or by slapping in-app purchases into games not originally designed for that purpose."You can't introduce free-to-play mechanics to a title six months after it's released," he said. "It's got to be part of the design. It can't just be crammed in there later on."Curiosity's players still haven't reached the centre of the cube, although Molyneux said the game is "moving into the final phase" very soon, after which he'll be able to judge its success as a game and as a business model."The race to the centre. And then when that's all finished and we reveal what's in the middle – or hopefully reveal what's in the middle – then we'll truly measure its success," he said.Godus ambitions22cans is already hard at work on its next game, Godus, following that successful Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign.The project was partly born out of Molyneux's fascination with Kickstarter, and his desire to revive the genre – god-games – that made his original studio Bullfrog Productions famous."I feel that the god-game genre embodies everything that free-to-play is," he said. "The god game genre was almost invented for free-to-play 25 years ago. It works so beautifully for what free-to-play represents."Godus will be free-to-play, and while Molyneux admitted this brings challenges on PC and Mac where the model is less popular, in characteristic style he talked up the impact freemium mechanics will have on the game."It is already a fantastic, amazing and incredible game, and free-to-play makes it even more fantastic, amazing and incredible," he said, before sharing some gameplay details about Godus' iOS and Android incarnation.It will be based around a single-player environment called "Homeworld", where players sculpt the landscape with their fingers, and oversee their growing population of virtual inhabitants.The bigger the population, the more godly powers are unlocked. And at any point, some of those people can be taken out of Homeworld to battle in a "very simple multiplayer game", where players can win more people, and thus unlock more powers.Concept artwork for GodusExcavation plansThere's more to the gameplay though. "There's definitely some Dungeon Keeper, it's about excavating," said Molyneux, referring to another well-loved Bullfrog game."What we realised was – and this is all to do with free-to-play – that there is this terrible moment that consumers get to when they say 'Why am I doing this? Why am I planting crops? Why am I building buildings? Why am I sculpting the land?' And that's the point where you have to subtly show people there's a reason why."Hence excavating in Godus, which Molyneux explained in an example that wouldn't look out of place in the feed of (affectionate) parodic Twitter accountPeter Molydeux."You're sculpting, and you spot a bit of terrain that looks a bit different," he said. "You realise there's a nose protruding from the land, so you keep on sculpting and pushing the land around, and there's this face. And it's a huge massive statue of you buried in this hill!"The thinking here: "That gives you a reason to carry on sculpting. It's not just about serving the needs of your little people. It's about discovering things, and excavating."F2P attitudesMolyneux also talked about how free-to-play games studios are seen within the games industry and outside it, including the investors who got excited at the rise of Zynga, then spooked when its share price dropped post-IPO.He said that the more recent success of Finnish developer Supercell – currently making $2.4m a day from its Clash of Clans and Hay Day games on iOS alone – has reawakened investor interest."If you're working in free-to-play, VCs and investors are fascinated by it," said Molyneux. He went on to talk about players, and the perceived snobbery towards free-to-play games from "core" gamers who see console and/or PC gaming as having more depth."The core gamers have yet to see a game in my opinion that really justifies their attention," said Molyneux, referring to his earlier film/TV analogy."At the moment as far as they're concerned, they're watching Skyfall, and we're asking them to go to free-to-play, which is like watching In The Night Garden. There's got to be a middle ground."It's this middle-ground that 22cans is targeting with Godus, which Molyneux hopes will appeal to both kinds of gamers.Regulation worriesMolyneux was also asked about attitudes within the games industry towards free-to-play, and said that developers would "be very foolhardy to turn your nose up" at the model. However, he warned that snobbery exists on both sides of the debate."People like [Zynga CEO] Mark Pincus rubbed a lot of the industry up the wrong way because he said console games are dead," said Molyneux. "We can't have snobbishness on either of those [sides]."Regulators are getting interested in free-to-play games at the moment, with the UK's Office of Fair Trading launching an investigation into how these games and their in-app purchases are marketed to children, and whether some developers are breaking existing laws in the process."If I was a betting man I'd think the platform providers will start trying to answer that question fairly soon," said Molyneux, referring to Apple and Google."You can't have people racking up bills of hundreds or thousands of pounds without them knowing what they're doing," he continued, while warning that among adults "some people love spending money, and we shouldn't stop that".Molyneux also warned of the risks for the games industry of regulations varying around the world, and the danger (for developers) that publicity around irresponsible free-to-play games has a knock-on effect for the responsible ones."We've got to be careful that the OFT doesn't create a regime where us developers don't want to develop for the UK, so you have to be very careful," he said."We also have to be careful that we don't fall into the trap of making our games the equivalent of gambling, where parents will say 'my kid must never play one of these games'."Kickstarter lessonsMolyneux finished off by talking about lessons learned from the Godus Kickstarter campaign, which he described as a "rollercoaster ride" while noting that many crowdfunding campaigns have a similar pace."You start high, you have a lot of enthusiasts coming in – gamers who've maybe played Populous and want to play it again in our case – and then after three days you've got all those people, and it slumps down," he said.The middle of the campaign thus becomes "this terrible doldrum" where the pledge total is crawling rather than shooting upwards, and fears mount that it will never hit its target."Then suddenly for seemingly no reason at all, in the last few days it picks up again," said Molyneux, although he proceeded to give a reason."95% of people pledging at the end of the Kickstarter campaign were serial pledgers. They were people who have pledged on more than 10 projects, and there were a couple of examples of people who have pledged over the last year to over 500 projects!"Hence his advice to developers to always ask for less money than they actually need when crowdfunding: "If you need £100k, ask for £50k," he said."When you reach that £50k, that will trigger all those serial pledgers who think 'this is worth backing', and then you can have all the stretch pledges that will take you to £100k."He also said if he was to run a Kickstarter campaign again, he wouldn't have any pledges over £100 in value."The amount of griefing that goes on for the higher value pledges just isn't worth the amount of money it brings in," he said. "The vast majority of your money from Kickstarter comes from tiers lower than £100."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Nintendo Direct: EarthBound, Pikmin 3, A Link to the Past | VG247Nintendo has announced a range of new 3DS titles including a sequel to the legendary Zelda title, Link to the Past, originally released on the Super Nintendo console.During the NA Nintendo Direct session, a new 3DS game in The Legend of Zelda series was announced. It contains and all new adventure which takes place in the world of A Link to the Past, and allows Link to become a drawing and move along walls. A 3D video of the new game is now available to download in the Nintendo eShop. The game will launch this holiday season.Yoshi's Island, the third installment in franchise is making its way to 3DS, where Yoshi and Baby Mario are back with their typical movements along with new actions. More details about the game, as well as launch timing, will be announced in the future.Mario &amp; Donkey Kong: Minis on the Move, the eShop exclusive, will contain over 180 stages in four different modes. Players can also create their own stages and share them with others to play around the world. It launches on May 9 in both regions.Game &amp; Wario Release Date Announced | IGNAnd while we're on Nintendo, this is the Wii U release news I've been waiting for:During its Nintendo Direct presentation this morning, Nintendo revealed that Game &amp; Wario will hit the Wii U eShop and retail stores on June 23rd.Game &amp; Wario was released in Japan last month and was originally due in the Wii U's launch window. Nintendo revealed in January that the title would be released in the first half of 2013.Played this at E3 and really enjoyed its different take on asymmetrical multiplayer.Valve refunds BioShock Infinite buyer over baptism objection | MCVBen Parfitt:A player who objected to his forced participation in a baptism in an early scene in BioShock Infinite has been refunded by Valve.Players are made to undergo the ceremony to gain access to the game's main setting Colombia. All that is required is the pressing of a button. However, Christian gamer Breen Malmberg was so uncomfortable with the scene that he felt unable to play on.As a result Malmberg contacted Valve directly to request a refund – a request he says was honoured.But as Ben rightly asks – all the killing is fine, yeah?Analyst: US sales trends will remain negative until GTAV | GameSpot.comThe NPD Group will report United States industry sales tomorrow and the results will not be pretty, nor will they turn around anytime soon. That's the opinion of Sterne Agee analyst Arvind Bhatia, who told investors today that March sales are expected to be down 10-15 percent.Negative trends will continue until the release of Grand Theft Auto V in September followed by the launch of Microsoft and Sony next-generation platforms either in October or November, he argued.Help us, Rockstar, you're our only hope!Code Britannia: The Pickford Brothers | EurogamerGreat little biography of the fabulous coding brothers:For John, games have been a lifelong calling, and he was coding before he even owned a computer. "Me and my friends used to go into Stockport town centre and go to the library," he explains. "They had a magazine called Practical Computing, one of those big thick ones, and it had listings. We used to write them down by hand, then we'd go into WHSmith and type them in. We'd never finish, because we didn't know what we were doing and they shut at five."Starseed Pilgrim | TIGSourceDerek Yu:IGF 2013 Excellence in Design nominee Starseed Pilgrim was released on Steam today (Steam releases were offered to all the nominees this year). This unassuming and enigmatic puzzle platformer has become a hit with a number of indie game developers, including Bennett Foddy (QWOP) and Braid creator Jonathan Blow, who called it his game of the year for 2012. Since so much of the enjoyment from Starseed comes from figuring out how the game works, it's hard to describe even the basic goals without spoiling it. If that sounds fun to you in and of itself, you should probably give it a go.Woman Buys Old Nintendo Game For $7.99. Turns Out It's Worth $15,000 | KotakuWoman buys an old SNES game in a charity shop in North Caroline for $7.99. It turns out to be worth around $15,000:Stadium Events, one of the first exergaming titles, was only released in a test market in the northern United States in 1987. The next year, Nintendo bought the North American rights to its "Family Fun Fitness" mat, which then became the more well known Power Pad. Anything under the Family Fun Fitness brand was supposed to have been destroyed.I'd settle for a mint copy of Landstalkers on Mega Drive. Or Radiant Silvergun, of course. How about you? What's the rare game that you desperately want in your collection?You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
It's Thursday. I didn't play any games last night : (
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team"Porn identification officer" in China gets paid to watch porn &gt;&gt; Daily DotWhat is porn? You may believe you hold some expertise in the matter, but are you a professional? Can you separate the phony porn from pure stuff? If so, whip out that résumé. The Chinese need you.Actually, there's are similar jobs in the UK, at the Internet Watch Foundation. Except it's more than porn. It's gruelling, by all accounts.Samsung Galaxy S4 European launch to include Need for Speed giveaway, new Hub apps &gt;&gt; Android CentralSamsung has partnered with multiple companies to bring new content to the Samsung Hub for the upcoming Galaxy S4 launch in Europe, scheduled for April 27. EA is providing a version of Need for Speed Most Wanted that not only has been optimized for this particular phone, but includes "in-game Samsung branding." The first 100,000 European customers will be able to download the game for free through the Samsung Hub - everyone else, including Galaxy Note 2 owners, can still purchase a copy.Michelin will be offering their real-time traffic app 'Traffic' and eatery locator and reviewer 'Restaurant' apps at launch, with with tourist attraction app 'Travel' following this summer. The children's apps 'Nighty Night' and 'Little Fox Music Box' by Goodbeans will be Samsung Hub exclusives. Random House Mondadori is bringing 3,400 Spanish language books, which include international best-selling authors, to the Hub as well.First real-world usage figures suggest Chromebooks are struggling &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott:To put things in perspective, as of April 2013 all Chromebooks combined have managed to achieve 7/10 of 1% of the usage of Windows 8 PCs worldwide.Put another way, that figure suggests that in nearly two years on the market, all of those Chromebooks have achieved a smaller percentage of usage than Windows RT earned as of January 2013, after only three months on the market. Windows RT has been widely considered a disappointment, with OEMs cutting prices for RT-powered devices.In both categories, those tiny results suggest a fair amount of pain for the OEMs that jumped in early. Google's gone all-in for its cloud-based OS, and Microsoft is similarly gung-ho about the future of its Windows RT operating system. But it might be another couple of years before the general buying public is really ready for either one.But one Chromebook was the top seller on Amazon's PC category! Could it be that that isn't a reliable metric for broader sales? (Windows RT has done about 1.5m sales in total, according to estimates.)Pirate Bay founder Gottfrid Svartholm Warg charged with hacking, fraud &gt;&gt; Digital SpyPirate Bay co-founder Gottfrid Svartholm Warg has been formally charged with fraud and hacking offences.The controversial internet figure is accused of carrying out cyber attacks on several Swedish agencies and attempting to illegally withdraw money for an online bank, The Local reports.The fun goes on.Read this from 2009. (Thanks @IvanIvanovich for the link.)Ad-blockers, the games press, and why sexy cosplay galleries lead to better reporting &gt;&gt; Penny ArcadeBen Kuchera lays it on the line:Ready for irony? The better your audience is - the more mature, intelligent, and plugged in - the more likely they are to run an ad-blocking program of some kind. People who read parenting blogs don't often block ads, and are probably barely aware it's a thing they can do. If you're a 25 year old guy who has a job in IT, makes a good living, and reads a ton of blogs, odds are you're blocking ads. I love you folks, and you're my people, but from a business perspective, you're a really crummy market to go after.If you don't block ads, but you visit that site with a 50% rate of ad blockers and a $5 CPM, your visit is worth around one-quarter of a single penny. There is nothing about this system that is good for anyone. It sucks for everyone. I've had game developers tell me happily on Twitter that they block ads, and I feel like that's the same thing as telling them I pirate games. Blocking ads directly hurts the people who write content, and it hinders our ability to make money and stay in business.There are publications that have millions of page views, and they're drowning.Toshiba's high-res Kirabook takes on the MacBook Air and Pro all at once &gt;&gt; The VergeIts spec sheet is where the Kirabook competes most with the MacBook Pro — and Toshiba's reps said as much, over and over. The Kirabook has a Core i5 or i7 processor, 256GB of solid state storage, and 8GB of RAM. You may need that i7 chip, too, because the Kirabook's 13.3-inch display's 2560 x 1440 resolution is going to require some horsepower — that kind of pixel density is rivaled only by the MacBook Pro with Retina Display and the Chromebook Pixel.In person, it's gorgeous. Toshiba reps showed us the same Timescapes trailer that so many companies use to show off their high-res wares, and the color reproduction and sharpness were stunning. Viewing angles are unfortunately pretty bad, but as long as you're sitting in front of your computer the Kirabook's screen is a winner. Its touchscreen was responsive, too, running Windows 8 Pro smoothly. Toshiba's bundling a simple tool for managing all that display real estate, too, making it easy to toggle between larger text and more available screen real estate — though in our time with the machine the default option seemed to be about right, and unfortunately these tools can't make the Windows 8 desktop's tiny buttons any larger.Outgoing Intel CEO knocks Windows 8, predicts $200 touch PCs this year &gt;&gt; ComputerworldPaul Otellini, who will retire from Intel next month, joined a chorus of others, ranging from analysts to longtime Microsoft hardware partners such as Dell, in placing some of the responsibility of the latest PC sales contraction on Microsoft's shoulders."There is an adoption curve," Otellini acknowledged, talking about Windows 8 and its "Modern" user interface (UI), a radical overhaul of the traditional desktop. "We didn't quite have that same kind of adoption curve in Windows 7 versus XP before it. This requires a little bit of training."Otellini, however, did say, "Once you get over that adoption curve, I don't think you go back." He also argued, as have most analysts and many Windows 8 users, that on a touch-enabled device Windows 8 is easier to use than Windows 7.Shortages of touch-ready hardware, particularly notebooks, have plagued the industry since Windows 8's launch. And the higher prices of touch PCs have put off many consumers, who have been trained for years to expect low-priced machines. When they can't find a touch PC in their price range, experts have said, they instead steer toward lower-cost touch tablets.Samsung, please: Stop the madness &gt;&gt; Computerworld BlogsJR Raphael:Let's face it: The "throw everything we can think of against the wall and see what sticks" approach seems to be a key part of Samsung's core philosophy. It's the same mindset that causes the company to load up its devices with a mess of gimmicky features most people will never use instead of focusing on a few really well-developed software elements - or, you know, a carefully constructed user interface that shows eventhe slightest bit of design restraint.Sometimes, morecanbe better - but there's a difference between more for a meaningful reason and more merely for the sake of more. Really, come on: How often are you going toattach audio of your voice onto a still photoor snap an image of yourself with your phone's front camera and insert it into an image you took simultaneously with the rear camera? And how many people are desperately craving a somewhat lower-end 5.8 in. Galaxy device over a 5-in. Galaxy S4 or 5.5-in. Galaxy Note II?Choice - whether in device types or feature options - is beneficial only when it means something. Flooding consumers with every possible thing you can cook up does little more than cause confusion and dilute your brand.Raphael's bio describes him as a "veteran Android journalist" - which means he must have been at it for all of five years.How to reduce image size with WebP automagically &gt;&gt; The NetDNA BlogIt's common to minify CSS and JavaScript files by removing whitespace and comments, renaming variables, and a few other tricks. The main benefit is reducing download times and providing visitors with a faster page load. But on the average webpage, we&amp;#8217;re overlooking the gigantic elephant in the room: images.Images can dwarf text files like CSS and JavaScript:according to httparchive.org, they comprise over 60% of the transfer of average webpage.GigaOM reportsthat webpages grew by 50% between November 2010 and May 2012, and estimates an average size of 2MB by 2015. Combine this growth with the increasing use of mobile devices (i.e., expensive, capped bandwidth), and we're heading in the wrong direction.The solution: optimize images with WebP.Fortunately, Google and other companies are working to reduce bandwidth usage. A major achievement is a new image format,WebP, which handles lossy (JPEG) and lossless (PNG) images, all while reducing file sizes.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Apple shares dipped to a 16-month low during trading on Wednesday as concerns grew that muted phone and tablet sales may cause the company to miss its own revenue targets.In morning trading Apple's stock fell below $400 for the first time since December 2011, before closing at $403. The shares reached more than $705 last September.The selling stampede was sparked by a disappointing trading update at one of Apple's suppliers and warnings from analysts that sales of iPhones and iPads could be lower than expected when the company reports results for its March quarter next week.Texas-based Cirrus Logic, which makes audio chips for Apple's tablets and phones and relies on the technology giant for 90% of its income, reported first-quarter revenue of $170m (£111m), some $27m less than expected. "We blame Apple for losing its mobility mojo," Vernon Essi, an analyst at Needham &amp; Co, concluded in a note. "This was simply an inventory overbuild for the iPhone 5 relative to Apple's forecast."Apple watchers at Citi and Jefferies banks have predicted the company could miss its own guidance for revenues between $41bn  and $43bn in the March quarter, and the company is expected to report its first significant decline in operating income since 2003, with Wall Street forecasting an 18% fall to $9.5bn.Forecasts for iPhone sales in the first three months of 2013 were on Wednesday revised down by 1m to 34.2m by Sanford Bernstein analyst Tony Sacconaghi. He cut his iPad forecast by 1m to 18.5m, and said revenues could be down 3% year on year in the following quarter, which ends in June.The share price could fall further, particularly if Apple does not respond quickly to calls from investors to share more of its cash pile through dividends. "If our estimates for this quarter and guidance are correct, and Apple does not announce that it is returning incremental cash on the call, we suspect Apple's stock could come under further near-term pressure," said Sacconaghi.
Besides Samsung, there's one other company making Android pay: Microsoft. The software giant justsigned a patent licensing agreement– including unspecified payment terms – with Hon Hai, the parent of manufacturing company Foxconn for devices running Google's mobile operating system Android and Google's desktop Chrome OS.Significantly, the agreement says that it covers "smartphones, tablets and televisions", suggesting Microsoft has now broadened the scope of patents that it is using to pursue Android – and now Chrome OS too – to include GoogleTV, which has so far failed to take off significantly.Google does not charge device manufacturers a licence fee for Android or Chrome OS – unlike Microsoft, which charges manufacturers for the use of Windows Phone, Windows and Windows RT licences. But unlike Google, Microsoft provides coverage against patent lawsuits arising from the use of its operating software. Google's purchase in 2012 of Motorola Mobility, with a patent portfolio whose value it estimated at $5bn (£3.3bn), was meant to fend off such attacks – but so far that has failed.Of Android handset makers, only Samsung is making significant profits, despite shipments of smartphones running the software exceeding 144m in the fourth quarter of 2012.HTC was one of the first companies to sign a deal with Microsoft, in April 2010. Acer, Viewsonic, Samsung, LG, Sharp and Nikon have also signed similar deals, which are thought to pay the US company between $5 and $15 per device.That could mean Microsoft is bringing in at least $500m in revenues from Android – this will in effect all be profit once legal costs are defrayed.In the latest deal, Microsoft will get unspecified per-device royalties from Hon Hai for Android or Chrome OS devices it makes under its own name or as a "white label" manufacturer for other companies which haven't struck a deal with Microsoft.The deal with Foxconn is the 19th known to have been made by an Android manufacturer with Microsoft, which has a gigantic patent portfolio covering many technologies that are now routinely used in mobile systems.Apple is one of the biggest users of Hon Hai, which assembles the iPad and iPhone for it, but a mutual patent licensing deal with Microsoft means that it is unaffected.Microsoft and Google, meanwhile, are bitter rivals, and Steve Ballmer's company has been seeking any way it can to undermine Google's success – including the threat of court action against Android manufacturers unless they sign patent deals. So far, only Motorola Mobility has held out against the licence demands, and is fighting a number of long-running court battles with Microsoft in Europe and the US in which it is asserting a number of its standards-essential patents relating to H.264 video decoding and Wi-Fi wireless networking in court cases, alleging Microsoft needs to make substantial payments.But the effect has so far been minimal, with American and European competition authorities instead warning Google about Motorola's misuse of patents that it had pledged to standards bodies would be licensed on an equal basis to all comers.
A juror will be prosecuted for contempt of court after allegedly writing on Facebook that he wanted to "fuck up a paedophile" during the trial of a convicted child sex offender.Kasim Davey was discharged as a juror in the trial in December when he wrote on Facebook: "Woooow I wasn't expecting to be in a jury Deciding a paedophile's fate, I've always wanted to Fuck up a paedophile &amp; now I'm within the law!."He denied posting the message – which is in breach of laws on contempt of court – when initially questioned by the judge at Wood Green crown court in London. Davey was a juror at the trial of Adam Kephalas, a convicted child-sex offender who was given a suspended 12-month prison sentence in January this year.Davey will now be prosecuted by the attorney general for "an act likely to interfere with the due administration of justice".The attorney general, Dominic Grieve, was given permission to pursue the contempt case at a short hearing at the high court in London on Wednesday morning.The two high court judges, Lord Justice Goldring and Mr Justice Ouseley, did not set a date for the next prosecution hearing.Grieve did not attend court as he was at St Paul's cathedral, less than a mile away, for the funeral of Lady Thatcher.The case is the latest in a string of contempt prosecutions involving jurors and members of the public using the internet to discuss ongoing criminal trials.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@guardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
Long-form digital publishing projectMatterhas been bought byMedium, the new publishing platform launched last year byEv Williams, co-founder of Twitter, Blogger and Odeo.Matter founders Bobbie Johnson, a journalist formerly with The Guardian and GigaOm, and Jim Giles, formerly of Nature and New Scientist, will continue to edit Matter, and will joinKate LeeandEvan Hansenon Medium's editorial team.Matter was launched with aKickstarter campaignthat began in February 2012, aiming to raise $50,000 to establish a long-form journalism project focusing on the science and tech of the future. The public responded with $140,000 in funding.In a statement published on Matter and Medium, Johnson and Giles said Williams had initiated talks earlier this year but that there would be no dramatic changes in the short term, though stories would be cross-published between the sites."Our service is an ongoing experiment, but we have no immediate plans to alter the team, the places we publish (our website and the Kindle store), or how much we charge for each article. More importantly, we have no plans - at any time - to stop crafting hard-hitting narratives about big ideas. One of the things that made it easy to join Medium was the knowledge that the company believes in great storytelling as much as we do, and is prepared to support what we do."Johnson and Giles spent two years developing Matter. They would not disclose financial terms or say how long they are tied in to the company.Neither Matter nor Medium, which encourages collaborative, quality blogging, claim to address the challenges of funding quality journalism. Matter charges users 99c per article and avoids advertising, while Williams told theLaunch conferencein March that it was too early to say what kind of system would work for Medium."For a content platform rather than a publication, the economics are very different," said Williams. "If there is a sizeable audience there is money to be made, and that's different to solving the New York Times problem."Williams also described how the economics of web publishing have developed in a way that rewards frequency and volume, de-prioritising long-form content and quality stories. Johnson added today that Matter is just one of a cluster of new companies focused on tackling this issue."Being small allows us to take risks and appeal to people in a way that we're not able to do as part of a big traditional news organisation. We found it easier to run crazy experiments without having to go through lots of layers of management or ask permission," said Johnson."Long-form is not just about words on a page, but about a certain approach, a rigour and a depth that people feel gets put to one side by traditional news organisations. For us it's about paring back and doing one thing as well as we could."
In modern football, it is the playmakers we idolise; the magicians who can orchestrate attacks as well as score. Andrés Iniesta, Xavi Hernández, Andrea Pirlo, Lionel Messi … mostly, they are deep-lying forwards or creative midfielders; they don't get in on the end of long, lofted passes, they sculpt goals. This is where Fifa 14 wants to go.Every year, when the latest Fifa is shipped, the team gets together, sifts through feedback, from within the studio and from customers, and works out where to go next. This time there was a rather weighty conclusion: Fifa is too fast. There is something about the system, the physics, the controls, whatever that leads toward end-to-end gameplay. All the action is happening around the 18-yard area. Everything is compressed."That's not as realistic as we'd like," says series producer Nick Channon as he introduces a roomful of journalists to the latest instalment. "When you look at the modern game, it's much more about building up through the midfield. The best teams move the ball around, switch sides, attack on the wings, they attack from everywhere – that's something we want to bring into Fifa. The exhilaration of scoring great goals isn't just about the shot, it's about how you get there."So for Fifa 14, the big emphasis is on build-up play, on anticipation and on off-the-ball movement; it's about driving through the midfield, rather than lofting balls over it. For a start, the team has completely re-worked how dribbling at speed works. It turns out that in most football simulations, when the gamer hits the sprint button, the onscreen player is limited to a turning circle of just 22.5 degrees – which means you get these long, wide turning arcs. Fifa 14 has done away with that; you'll now be able to turn at any angle while sprinting, leading defenders up the pitch before darting back, or winding through opponents.Players can dart this way and that while dribbling with the ball after EA did away with the long turning circle from previous games. Photograph: EA SportsTo ensure this isn't over-powered, however, the movement physics is getting a new addition: momentum. Now, if your player quickly changes direction, or turns completely, you'll get a brief pause as they transfer weight from one foot to the other. Channon runs through early footage of a sharp about turn on screen, and the effect looks immediately more authentic. Beyond that, we didn't get any hands-on time so I've no idea how losing this historic 22.5-degree turning circle is going to affect things, but it should make for much less predictability in the midfield. Which is the whole point, of course.On that note, Fifa 14 is also set to build on last year's first-touch control system, which varies how effectively a player receives the ball depending on his skill, position and the speed and angle of delivery. This time, EA Sports is introducing variable dribble touches, so sprinting players will push the ball forward at differing distances, again based on their skills; a stylish midfielder will keep the ball close to them, but a hulking defender may well push it out further, giving opposing players the chance to steal possession. Whatever, the days of having the ball stick to the runner's feet are over. "It will transform how you think about sprinting," says Channon.What we're getting so far is a shift in balance toward defenders, and that continues into the demo. The next big change is in marking, which Channon feels tended to be loose enough in Fifa 13 for players to turn defenders reasonably easily. Now it's being tightened up, thanks to a change to the AI. Apparently, in previous iterations of the game, computer-controlled players would make their defensive decisions in a single frame of animation, often breaking away from attackers if another forward player was spotted in a threatening position. Now they assess situations over multiple frames which means they're less likely to act on split-second decisions, instead staying focused to track the player on the ball.EA developers have worked on the ball physics, which makes trajectory and environmental effects more realistic … (dig the pink boots, Becks). Photograph: EA SportsAs a consequence, one cheap route to goal has been closed up. Channon talks about how, in the past, if a ball was cleared from the box, it would almost always fall to an attacking player, allowing the ball to be recycled. Now, however, those players are likely to have tight defensive markers. "It's not about making the game more difficult," insists Channon. "It's about making it more fun." By taking away some of game's repetitive tics, the idea is that the action will feel more authentic, and more representative of the real sport.And to balance things up, there are additions to the attacking intelligence of AI players. They can now make three different types of forward move: spinning out and running in behind defenders; running along the back line to stay onside, and backing in to defenders to create space. Each one is a visual cue to gamers, and as with the variable ball control while sprinting, it adds more personality to individual players – powerful centre forwards will have much more success backing into and tussling with defenders than lighter strikers."The new runs make a huge difference," says Channon later. "The big one is the backing in to defenders, being able to play the ball in to the feet of a striker is important, you see it a lot in the real game. And being able to turn the defender gives you other opportunities. It's all about balance – with the tightening up of marking, it means the game will be less backwards and forwards. We're not changing the actual game speed at all, but it will slow down naturally, you'll be able to look at different options and vary your game. It won't be about getting cheap goals."Defenders’ AI has been improved, with decisions made over multiple frames (although, surely Zaba should be tighter there?). Photograph: EA SportsAdding to the sense of physicality is a new "protect the ball" move, accessible by pressing the left trigger. Hitting this slows the player down, but allows them to shield the ball while dribbling, sticking out an arm or angling their body to see off opposing players. Gameplay producer Aaron McHardy likens the new control system to a racing sim, with sprint on the right trigger acting as accelerate, and "protect the ball" on the left as brake. The idea is that players can now battle through midfield, dictating and varying pace, while probing for decent passes. Players can also use left trigger to jostle for a loose ball, or to counteract a defender using the B button to pull at his opponent.The most intriguing update, though, is to scoring. In the past, player animations didn't tell the full story about a shooting chance. If you hit the shoot button during an animation sequence, the player would be snapped into the correct position – a slightly awkward process. Now, strikers will adjust their stride and angle realistically and this will signal how truly prepared they are. Channon talks about how EA would get feedback from gamers mystified why a certain shot flew well wide or dribbled pathetically into the keeper's arms – now, a new set of animations will provide visual tells: you'll know if the ball is too close to the attacker's feet, if they're going to have to attempt a rushed shot; and by watching closely, there will be a chance to pull out of a strike and instead pass the ball or feint and set up for a better chance.Defenders will get their own version of this. When going in for a tackle in Fifa 13, the defender is essentially committed for the duration of the fixed animation cycle – time it slightly wrong and your man is left floundering. In Fifa 14, however, the more phased approach to animation will allow defenders to break out of the cycle and will get a second chance to tackle. There's only a small window of opportunity, but it's a key addition that's likely to make the outcome of tackles much less predictable. It's all about widening the challenge in those midfield areas.And at last, EA Sports has finally addressed the ball physics – considered by many to be flat and predictable in previous iterations. Channon says the studio has been studying elements such as drag, curve and spin and has totally rethought the physics. Central to this is a much more realistic drag coefficient. The ball will speed up in the air, it will slow, it can almost flatten out or even slightly speed up – simulating the effect of wind, turbulence and the weight of the ball – instead of simply providing a dull curve to the flight. "It just felt like the right time to work on it," he says. "We realised that the linear deceleration of the ball wasn't right – we were getting these really flat, repetitive trajectories. Now you can kick the ball harder, there's more spin, more movement in the air, it just all came together."The hope is that this loosened flight mechanic leads to a far great variety of shots, including the sort of 30-yard low-rising screamers Steven Gerrard tends to fire off, or those shots that dip at the last minute into the top corner. In fact, Channon demonstrated the new effect by showing a video of this famous goal against Olympiakos:Apparently, crosses and long passes will also be affected, allowing a greater range of defence-splitting through-balls.So, that's Fifa 14 right now. Tighter marking, more finesse to attacking play, more control over the tempo – and completely rethought game physics. It's a promising array of improvements – some may read it as overly defensive, but hopefully the added range of forward runs from computer-controlled players, the more expressive movement and the less predictable ball flight will open things up for varied attacking play. And certainly, closer more intelligent marking should rid us of some of those cheap scoring scenarios, like coming in at an angle from the edge of the box and striking across goal, which some Fifa regulars have turned into an unfailing exploit.But these was all shown through demo videos – there is no hands-on code right now. The team is still tweaking the parameters and the animation. Channon did show us a video that one of the QA testers sent him on his mobile phone – it shows the replay of a beautiful goal scored from way outside the box, caught perfectly on the volley, the ball barely rising above ground level, wavering in the air and tucking in beyond a flailing keeper and the near post. Channon can barely disguise his delight.Tomorrow: a look at the new skill games and career mode updates, plus, why we haven't mentioned what consoles the game is coming out on
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.New Criterion IP 'is not a racing game' | CVG UKExpecting another Need For Speed reboot? You might be disappointed:Criterion, the EA-owned Guildford studio with a proud heritage of racing titles, is said to be working on a new IP in a different genre.Studio exec Alex Ward explained on his personal Twitter account that "after over a decade of making racing games it's time to make something new".Initially it was suspected this meant that Criterion would not be developing racing games in the short-term, but in a follow-up message, Alex clarified that he was not speaking for the studio.Not sure how much we should read into this though. Criterion has long spoken about trying different genres; when I met Alex at E3 last year he reminded me about the studio's super-stylish PS2 shooter, Black. But there's always the possibility this is a bluff and that Burnout will screech back into view.UK video games tax breaks in doubt as European Commission launches investigation | MCVUh-oh, tax breaks might be in trouble again:The European Commission (EC) has announced that it plans to investigate the proposals, questioning whether there is an obvious market failure in the UK games industry.Specifically, it is asking the following questions: Is aid is indeed necessary to stimulate UK games development? Would limiting expenditure for the tax relief to goods or services 'used or   consumed' in the UK would be discriminatory Would offering this type of aid would fuel a subsidy race between Member States? Will the proposed cultural test ensures that the aid supports only games with cultural content without lead to undue distortions of competition?UK trade body UKIE remains hopeful that tax breaks won't be derailed, however.The French games industry has been through a similar investigation unscathed, but this will surely be worrying for industry trade bodies Tiga and Ukie, which have been campaigning for video game tax breaks for several years.Remember Me creative director discusses gender equality | Shacknews.comDontnod Entertainment has said that casting Remember Me's Nilin as the lead in its upcoming action-adventure "just felt right," but the creative director Jean-Maxime Moris told Shacknews that the game is more about putting men and women on the same social and professional footing than the developer first envisioned."We didn't think of gender equality being a major theme in the game, but thinking back on the world we designed, it is true that women have key positions in its governance," Moris said. "In 2013, we have a long way to go in terms of gender equality, so take this as a subconscious militant act."Battlefield 4 head dismisses motion control as a 'gimmick' | Edge OnlinePatrich Back of DICE has dissed motion controls:"We are extremely open to innovation, but if it's a gimmick, there's no point unless it adds value to the player. Touch screens used to be a gimmick, because no-one could get it to work until iPhone came out and used it right. It adds to the experience, and now everyone is doing it. To us it's the same with motion control and perceptual gaming in general; if it adds, great. If it's a gimmick, ignore it."AAA troubles can help independent scene, says Klei founder | GamesIndustry InternationalIt's been a difficult stretch for the AAA game industry, with Electronic Arts, Activision, and Disney all making cuts this month alone. As unwelcome as that news might be, Klei Games founder Jamie Cheng told GamesIndustry International that there's an upside to such moves. The head of the studio behind Shank, Mark of the Ninja, and the upcoming Don't Starve attributed the recent boom in the independent development scene in part to years of struggles at big publishers."With all the changes and layoffs, we're seeing so many new studios come up that are doing these games without the crutch of hundreds of millions of dollars of marketing...I think for sure that the layoffs are fuelling way more development in the small, independent space," Cheng said, noting that he prefers "independent" to "indie" as the latter term carries more potentially inaccurate connotations.Bit of Alright Returns. BOAT! | Bit of AlrightThe great indie gaming festival is returning on May 10, alongside the similarly wonderful Wild Rumpus. On a boat:Speakers for BoA this time include Mike Bithell, Holly Gramazio (Hide&amp;Seek), George Buckenham (Die Gute Fabrik), Cara Ellison (Littleloud/RPS), Ben Milsom (Mind Candy), Mitu Khandaker (The Tiniest Shark), Stephen Morris (Greenfly Studios), and Jonathan Whiting, among more to be announced. Subjects will range from game and level design through to Twine games and building custom hardware. Of course, there'll be loads of live games to play as well, and some unconventional design workshops.Get in there quick because the early bird tickets are just £25.You can followPress Start on Pinboard.
It's the middle of the working week. Did you play anything last night? I dabbled in a little Battlefield 3 after an emotional afternoon completing Walking Dead.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid founder: We aimed to make a camera OS &gt;&gt; PCWorldRubin, who became a Google executive after the search giant acquired Android in August 2005, said the plan was to create a camera platform with a cloud portion for storing photos online.He showed slides from his original pitch to investors in April 2004, including one with a camera connected "wired or wireless" to a home computer, which then linked to an "Android Datacenter."But growth in digital cameras was gradually slowing as the technology became mainstream. Rubin's company revamped its business plan: A pitch from five months later declares it to be an "open-source handset solution."Moore's Law and the origin of life &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewHere's an interesting idea. Moore's Law states that the number of transistors on an integrated circuit doubles every two years or so. That has produced an exponential increase in the number of transistors on microchips and continues to do so.But if an observer today was to measure this rate of increase, it would be straightforward to extrapolate backwards and work out when the number of transistors on a chip was zero. In other words, the date when microchips were first developed in the 1960s.A similar process works with scientific publications. Between 1990 and 1960, they doubled in number every 15 years or so. Extrapolating this backwards gives the origin of scientific publication as 1710, about the time of Isaac Newton.Today, Alexei Sharov at the National Institute on Ageing in Baltimore and his mate Richard Gordon at the Gulf Specimen Marine Laboratory in Florida, have taken a similar to complexity and life.This is spooky. Although it doesn't seem to allow for punctuated equilibrium.WhatsApp is bigger than Twitter &gt;&gt; AllThingsDToday, WhatsApp is the single-most-used independent smartphone app in nearly every country in the world. It has hundreds of millions of users, and processes as many as 20bn messages per day. And, as CEO Jan Koum said onstage at D: Dive Into Mobile on Tuesday, WhatsApp is now bigger than Twitter, which officially claims 200m monthly active users. The company daily processes 8bn inbound messages and 12bn outbound.His plan: "build the platform and the revenue will follow". Or a gigantic cheque from either Google or Facebook, surely - both would bid high to prevent the other getting such a global mobile-centric network.***False positive Trojan.Downloader.ED*** &gt;&gt; Malwarebytes ForumAs many of you are aware, we suffered a false positive earlier today which caused many of our users' systems to be rendered inoperable. The offending database was v2013.04.15.12, and was live for only 8 minutes.But still caused problems. Here's the solution. (Thanks @IvanIvanovich for the link.)The Mermaids of Los Angeles: A Dumbphone in Exile | MIT Technology ReviewDavid Zax:As loyal readers already know, a few months ago I embarked upon an experiment: Ijunked my iPhone. Surprising even myself, at the end of the appointed month, I decided not to go back to it. Currently, Imake dowith a very basic Alcatel phone, together with a hand-me-down dataless Verizon iPhone that I use as a de facto iPod Touch.I've been managing fairly well under this arrangement for the past few months. But I live in New York, a walking-and-public-transit city that I know very well. In fact, after years of freelancing in the city, I even know what libraries, parks, and cafes have reliable Wi-Fi. I know how to get from point A to B, and if I'm ever lost, the streets are teeming with (mostly) friendly people to guide me.Los Angeles, though, where I've just spent the past week, is a world apart. I knew as I flew out last week that my dumbphone existence was about to be put severely to the test.One begins to wonder how Americans survived 20 years ago before the internet was pervasive. Judging by this, they must have been getting by on uncooked roadkill.Lines at T-Mobile prove Apple brand still has clout &gt;&gt; View From AboveRon Miller:And if you wanted proof that Apple still has some brand clout, consider that on Friday, T-Mobile began offering iPhone 5s for $99 and saw lines,yes actual lines, outside their retail stores.Apparently even T-Mobile didn't expect this. As Wayne Rash reported in eWeek,the stores were unpreparedfor the popularity of the offer and just a bit overwhelmed. Apparently, they hadn't dealt with the passion of Apple buyers before.What those lines proved was the Apple brand still has plenty of reach and people are still willing to wait in a long line to get the Apple product.Samsung may cleverly make fun of those linesin their ads, but the fact is people have so much brand loyalty when it comes to Apple, they are willing to do that and if the T-Mobile experience is any indication, that still hasn't changed.Samsung started running its ads poking fun at Apple in November 2011. In the US since that time, Apple's installed base has more than doubled. Comparable data isn't available for Samsung, though its smartphone share and installed base has grown strongly. Question: did the ads work?No, Apple's senior VPs are not the S&amp;P 500's best-paid execs &gt;&gt;Fortune TechOn Monday, Bloomberg posted astory(repeated bymore than a dozennewspaper and blogs) claiming that four Apple senior VPs are among the five highest-paid executives in the S&amp;amp;P 500. The executives named were Bob Mansfield, Bruce Sewell, Jeffrey Williams and Peter Oppenheimer. "Their pay jumped," according to Bloomberg, "after receiving 150,000 in restricted stock units shortly after Jobs passed away."No, their "pay" didn't jump. Their total compensation packages may have, but only if they stay with Apple long enough to collect them. That's the point of "retention" incentives: they encourage executives to stick around.Tell me again why we need Office on the iPad? &gt;&gt; ZDNetMatthew Baxter-Reynolds:Technologists have what, I think, is a unique problem compared to other professions - specifically that the delineation between tools used at work and at play is indistinct. If a chemist comes home from work, they're unlikely to have expensive lab equipment in their kitchen. Yet, when a software engineer comes home from work, it's likely they have the same or better kit in their house than they do at the office.Thus whereas a chemist might come home and not go into the kitchen and start running experiments, a software engineer can do exactly that. This bends the technologist's vision because the process of moving from work to play is one that is non-experiential. PC at work, then PC at home. Work tools at work - work tools at home.I don't personally think this needs to be the case - a little light self-reflection and this becomes obvious. Are you a technologist who owns a Kindle? You could read books on your PC when you go to bed, but do you? Do you instead use the Kindle? How about cooking - do you read recipes on your iPad, or do you cart your laptop into the kitchen?Post-PC technology is not about cost-benefit, it's all about experience. Technologists need to reflect on their own unconcious behaviour in order to understand post-PC.Applies more widely than just Office on iPad.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Twitter has blocked Flattr, a "payment" service in which people could get paid for having their tweets favourited by other users, from accessing its systems.The move is the latest part of Twitter's strategy to build a wall around its revenues and prevent rival companies from leaching off any by diverting users - a policy that it has been following with growing intensity since itsacquisition of Tweetdeckin May 2011.Flattrdescribes itselfas a "social microdonation service" which aims to "help creators get paid for their digital content". Users join Flattr, set up a monthly budget, and then click buttons - until now, including "favouriting" tweets on Twitter - to indicate their approval of content creators. At the end of each month, the budget is distributed among the recipients.Flattr's co-founder Linus Olssoncomplained about the move on the company blog, sayingWe think that we've created a beautiful way to support creators by checking what you favorited on Twitter and letting you send a flattr to the writer of a tweet. Twitter did not.So we are extremely sad to announce that from today (16th of April 2013) at noon CET we will remove the possibility to flattr tweets via the use of favorites, as per instructions from Twitter.Twitter, it said, had complained that that broke its API terms about "Advertising Around Twitter Content", which says:"Your advertisements cannot resemble or reasonably be confused by users as a Tweet. For example, ads cannot have Tweet actions like follow, retweet, favorite, and reply. And you cannot sell or receive compensation for Tweet actions or the placement of Tweet actions on your Service."Flattr needs an API key - in essence a password to Twitter's database - in order to provide the functionality around rewards for favourites. Without that, its task would be impossible, and Twitter was threatening to remove that authorisation.Further reading from August 2012Twitter's neutron bombBut Olsson said that while the rule is logical to stop companies selling retweets and followers, he said that Flattr was willing to forgo its 10% commission on the donations. Twitter however turned that down too, telling him that "you cannot sell or receive compensation for Tweet actions or the placement of Tweet actions on your Service."It added that "That includes compensation attached to a Tweet Action [such as a retweet or favoriting] sent to either a [third-party] service or through a service to another user.s"Olsson complained "We feel that Twitter is reading things into their terms that is not there."
You report (Watchdog to investigate 4G sell-off, 15 April) the National Audit Office's decision to conduct a value-for-money study into the 4G spectrum auction. We are pleased that this will happen, as it will provide a good opportunity to examine how we conducted an efficient auction. The auction outcome will support competition, with five different companies able to launch 4G services. It will also lead to investment in new services, greater innovation and enhanced coverage through an obligation to provide services to almost all of the UK population by 2017 at the latest.We designed and conducted the auction to meet our duties under primary legislation. This was established in 2003 under the previous Labour government and has been supported by the Conservative-Lib Dem coalition. This requires Ofcom to maximise benefits to the public by securing the efficient use of the spectrum. It does not require Ofcom to maximise auction receipts. This is understandable, since such a short-term objective could come at considerable cost to longer-term and more important goals, including competition and widespread coverage. The approach we took will ensure that the long-term benefits to the UK will far outweigh revenue raised from the auction.Ed RichardsCEO,Ofcom• It's good to see the National Audit Office investigating the recent 4G auction, which fell spectacularly behind its predicted revenue target. We urged the government to ensure value for money for the taxpayer and were astounded at the £1bn shortfall. £1bn is a serious amount of money to be out of pocket by. Why did the government think it was going to get that much money and why wasn't there a reserve price? Auctions can be risky but should never be allowed to be as damaging as that. Private companies are too often allowed to get their hands on state assets for a bargain price, leaving public finances out of pocket. Public finances need to be carefully managed, now more than ever. We sincerely hope the government learns from this episode and doesn't hastily sell off more family silver in the pursuit of a quick buck.Billy HayesGeneral secretary,CWU
Google chairman Eric Schmidt has denied that there is any tension with Samsung, the world's biggest mobile phone maker and the only Android handset manufacturer making substantial profits.He also said it would be "against our religion" to try to block Facebook Home, the new app from the giant social network for Android phones that effectively takes over the device to display Facebook updates and photos.Speaking at the AllThingsDigital Mobile conference in New York, Schmidt said that reports of tension between the search giant and its smartphone counterpart were incorrect, and that the relationship "has turned out to be the defining one" in Android.The number of Android activations – phones that are connecting to Google's server as they are first used – has now hit 1.5m per day, Schmidt said. That compares to 1.4m per day last month, and 1.3m in autumn 2012. The company is now on track to have a billion devices running Android by the end of the year, he suggested – though it's unclear how many of those will be connecting to Google services. Around a third of all Android phones shipped in the fourth quarter of 2012 were running a version of Android that doesn't use Google systems, according to the research company Gartner.In response to Terry Myerson, Microsoft's head of Windows Phone, who said he would be "very surprised" if Google wasn't looking for some way to block Facebook Home on Android phones, Schmidt responded: "Why are you listening to Microsoft's statements about Google?"Instead, he said it was a "tremendous endorsement" of Android. "I think it's fantastic," Schmidt said. "This is what open source is about. It's experimentation, it's new ideas, it's creativity." Removing it "would be counter to our public statements, our religion," he said. "The answer is 'no, we wouldn't remove Facebook Home [from the Google Play store]."He added: "We're phenomenally happy that people are using Android in these ways. You can't have half-open source. It's open source. Facebook read the manual, they read the rules, and they adhered to them. Good for them. They went to great lengths to remain application-compatible."Some commentators and analysts have suggested that Google would resist Facebook Home, which in effect turns an Android phone into a "Facebook phone" by taking over the home screen and many apps with a Facebook "layer", because it prevents Google from capturing location and other data about the individual using the phone.Myerson also claimed: "Android is kind of a mess… there's clearly mutiny in Starship Android. The only OEM [handset maker] making money off Android is Samsung."But Schmidt responded: "We've spent lots of time with Samsung, and I can confirm to you that the press coverage of tension has not been correct. I've been to South Korea many times to talk to them. They have literally hundreds of millions of phones coming out on the Android platform. The Samsung relationship has turned out to be the defining one, and I appreciated their decision [to help Android from its early days]."For Microsoft, Myerson said that Windows Phone's success was being overlooked. "No one hears about the progress in Poland or Mexico or Italy. For where we're at right now, the focus is to really get to 200 million phones a year through the current model," he said, adding: "We need to be successful somewhere before we can be successful everywhere."One focus was on markets where smartphone usage was relatively low: "Getting to a 20% market share in Mexico or Poland or Italy, that's the opportunity."On apps, he said Windows Phone would have 48 of the top 50 apps in use on iOS and Android "soon".
So Thief is both a reboot and a return to the factors fans have always loved. The emphasis is on thought and stealth, and the city is an open environment filled with possibilities. But what agency will Garrett have in this world? What arsenal of weapons and items can he call upon?While the character's array of gadgets returns, including the signature 'Blackjack' cudgel, most are better suited to distracting guards from afar than for inflicting immense damage. The closest you have to a dangerous offensive weapon is a retractable bow, with specialised arrows providing various benefits. Expect to be firing silent projectiles rather than bolts of mystic energy – if you're not avoiding combat entirely.Whatever you choose, there will be rules and constraints. "This is a resource-based game," says lead level designer, Daniel Windfeld Schmidt. "You can't go around shooting everyone because there just aren't enough arrows! But we also make sure you don't have negative consequences for not understanding complex systems right away. Like in the original Thief games there were consequences to your actions when you understood the mechanics. We have a progression with the weather system, but just like in the real world a little water will not put out a fire. That's why you have special tools which can do that."This is not the sort of game you can dash through thoughtlessly. Enemy AI will lead Watchmen to start searching out hiding points if they suspect your presence, and battles will soon turn against your favour if you attack head on. "In most games, when you come into a situation area it's mostly about how the non-player characters roll between cover," says Schmidt. "Our game is more about how they react when you're not there; that's where our focus is."Thief Photograph: Eidos MontrealWhere there has been evolution is in how the city is navigated. Traditionally, the Thief games were somewhat cumbersome – a way of forcing slower, sneakier play, perhaps, or simply a result of the programming limitations of the time. Now, controlling Garrett is an almost Parkour-like experience, nimbly bouncing off rooftops and deftly avoiding detection. Occasionally, narrative-driven free runs will test your ability to cross the city speedily and unseen. The refined movement undoubtedly works in the game's favour, meaning any challenge is down to the actual difficulty of the game rather than obfuscatory controls."The core game mechanics don't depend on the [hardware] generations. The challenge for the player shouldn't be about learning which button does what, but about how to work that in the game," says Schmidt. "When we design it, we try to make sure it challenges you because it's challenging, not because you haven't played it for two weeks and forgot the buttons. We want it to be more a natural extension of what you want to influence within the game."There's an air of the supernatural to Garrett's adventures. An ability simply called The Eye, gives him a heightened focus spotlighting enemies' weak points and objective locations, and there a few mysterious artefacts with occult applications. Returning fans will likely remember the Undead roaming the streets but, as of yet, there's no indication of anything that macabre here. For the most part, Thief presents a very low-fantasy world. Your skills and thieving prowess are products of intelligence and planning, not arcane powers. "We don't talk about magic anymore," confirms producer, Stéphane Roy. "Maybe there's mysticism but instead of this magical aspect we decided to be a bit more realistic. Less fireballs. It still has a lot of mystical elements. The fictional world still has a lot of things going on that makes you go 'there's something here'. That's part of the story as well."There are, however, undeniable similarities to Arkane Studios' 2012 ode to stealth-action,Dishonored. From Garrett's thief-vision to the proto-industrial, vaguely steampunk aesthetic of the game world, players unfamiliar with Thief's roots may find the two a little close. On closer inspection though, it's more a case of cyclical influence.Much as Tomb Raider inspired Uncharted, which informed the rebooted and far more sophisticated take on Lara Croft, so too can 2014's Thief be traced back through Dishonored to the earliest Thief games.Thief Photograph: Eidos Montreal"Naturally, there are similarities. We played Dishonored and we really enjoyed it [but] it's still a game about revenge and assassination while our game is about stealing," offers Schmidt. "That comes back to how we want to support different play styles. The master thief 'never seen, get all the loot' style, or the more aggressive 'hit-and-run from the shadows'. In other games it's more acceptable to be aggressive, to go out into the open and start fighting. That's not what Thief is about. Thief is about how to use the shadows to your advantage regardless of your agenda. In the old days Thief stuck out and our goal is to live up to the legend of Thief, the game no one else can really compare to. No pressure!"In truth, there will likely be considerable pressure placed on Thief's return. Not only must Eidos Montreal prove that such a long-dormant franchise is worthy of resurrection but also that it can find a wider audience now than it did originally. Thief will enjoy both the blessing and curse of being an early game on new hardware, with greater power at its disposal and less competition on the shelves but also a smaller installed base of users.Despite this, the components appear to be lining up well, with a captivating game world and stunning visuals balanced against a truly interesting protagonist and the freedom to experiment with objectives. If the final game lives up to the promise shown so far, Thief could prove very popular with players old and new alike.
Google has begun shipping its Google Glass "wearable computing" devices to its first users outside the company – and released guides so developers can write software for it.But one thing developers have been told is banned: showing advertising to wearers.Although almost all of Google's revenue – and more than 98% of its profits – comes from advertising, the company is initially shying away from showing adverts on the device, which has an embedded screen in the upper-right-hand corner of the right-hand lens that the company says provides resolution which is "the equivalent of a 25in high definition screen from eight feet away."The voice-controlled Google Glass is able to display information in the screen from the internet via a wireless connection to a smartphone, but also to take pictures and video using a front-facing camera.According to thedetails provided, the camera has a five-megapixel resolution, while videos will be 720p HD resolution. Audio feedback comes from a "bone conduction transducer" which rests on the ear and uses the sound-transmitting properties of the bone around the ear to improve sound.Google is promising that the battery should last for "one full day of typical use" – though it adds that features such as video recording and "Hangouts" (where users join shared video chatrooms) will use up more battery.The devices will cost about $1,500 (£980) each, and are expected to go on general sale later this year. But first Google is seeding them to about 4,000 "Glass Explorers" who won an online competition to try them out and give their outsider's opinion about its usability.Meanwhile, theGoogle Developer termsfor those writing applications – which it calls "Glassware" – for the service says bluntly "No ads. You may not serve or include any advertisements in your [application]." Developers are also banned from using data from people wearing Glass for advertising – including selling or sending that data to third-party networks – or charging for access to their apps and functionality.That could present a problem for some of the companies which have already signed up to provide apps for it. Those include the New York Times and the cloud data store company Evernote.Concerns about the potential for Glass wearers to be distracted while driving have already led to some calls for their use to be banned in the same way as handling mobile phones while driving. Others have expressed concerns about privacy and the question of who owns rights to pictures taken by Glass users in semi-private settings such as restaurants.
How was your weekend? I played a little Battlefield 3 and managed to get a KDR of 1:1 which is something of a revelation for me.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCognitive overhead, or why your product isn't as simple as you think &gt;&gt; TechCrunchDavid Lieb, of the makers of app Bump:To illustrate the difference between generic simplicity and cognitive simplicity, let's look at a couple products that, on the surface, might be regarded as being simple to use, but rank in my book as some of the most cognitively complex products of late.QR Codes – Designed to check the simplicity boxes of speed, ubiquity, and small number of steps, QR codes really dropped the ball on cognitive overhead. "So it's a barcode? No? It's a website? Ok. But I open websites with my web browser, not my camera. So I take a picture of it? No, I take a picture of it with an app? Which app?"iCloud / PhotoStream – When we heard Steve Jobs preach the utopian future where all of our photos and data would be seamlessly synchronized among all our devices, we smelled the Apple simplicity we'd all grown to love. But in practice, iCloud is rife with cognitive overhead — it only backs up your most recent photos, it works on certain select apps but not others, you have to create an icloud.com email account for it to sync your mail and notes but not everything else. Oh, and it works on new iPhone and iPads and Macs running OS X v10.7.4 or later, but not your PC or Android tablet. Try explaining that to your mother.There's quite a long list you could add to that. The "how to do it right" examples are great too.Microsoft multiyear license growth softens pain of PC decline &gt;&gt; Reuters"Microsoft has successfully transitioned into an enterprise software company and these results show that, because the strength of server and tools and the actual way they sell licenses to business is making up for the missing PC sales," said Kim Caughey Forrest, an analyst at Fort Pitt Capital.Effectively, Microsoft no longer relies on a new PC to make money from software. Only 20 percent of the company's product revenue comes from computer makers paying license fees to put Windows on their machines. About 45% comes from multiyear licensing agreements with customers - generally big companies paying millions of dollars for three-year access to Microsoft's Windows and Office software.The strength of that model is reflected in Microsoft's total unearned revenue balance - a measure of the strength of its long-term business - which rose 13% from a year earlier and now stands at $17.1 billion.jQuery 2.0 released &gt;&gt; Official jQuery blogYou asked for it, you got it: jQuery 2.0 has arrived!As promised, this version leaves behind the older Internet Explorer 6, 7, and 8 browsers. In return it is smaller, faster, and can be used in JavaScript environments where the code needed for old-IE compatibility often causes problems of its own.Those two browsers still have about a 25% global share,according to StatCounter. (Thanks @vassal for the link.)August 2012: LG sells 5 million LTE devices, 1 million in July alone &gt;&gt; Android AuthorityAugust 2012:The South Korean market is basically split between two companies: Samsung and LG. This has pushed Apple into a tiny market share of around 2% in the region, and forced HTC to get out of the country. Obviously, this is a good thing for Samsung and LG, and it's one of the reasons why LG has managed to sell so many LTE devices already, even though its impact in the US market is not that great.Feb 2013: After withdrawing from Japan, BlackBerry is reportedly considering an exit from Korea &gt;&gt; The Next WebFebruary 2013:Korean news wire Yonhap cites anonymous "industry sources" who claim that "sluggish sales" in the country have left BlackBerry executives pondering the future of the company in Korea, where Samsung, LG and Apple dominate the local market.Can't find anything subsequent confirming or refuting this. Anyone?July 2012: HTC Leaves the South Korean Market &gt;&gt; TalkAndroid.comJuly 2012:HTC, the Taiwanese handset maker, closed down their office in Seoul, South Korea and has completely left the South Korean market to further focus on the larger markets that they are successful in. With HTC also leaving the Brazilian market not too long ago, it's clear that HTC realizes what their strengths and weaknesses are.Motorola to exit South Korean market in 2013 &gt;&gt; All MobileAs a part of Google's global reshuffle plan, Motorola Mobility has now announced that it will be closing down almost all of its operations in South Korea in 2013. The move can be seen as a part of company's global restructuring which has seen close down of most of its international websites including the Indian website less than a month ago.…Motorola is not the only manufacturer to exit South Korean market as recently HTC fled from the country. The South Korean market is dominated mainly by players like Samsung, Apple along with LG.South Korea - a hard game for HTC &gt;&gt; Focus TaiwanSince some were wondering about the size of the South Korean phone market:The number of smartphone users in South Korea as of August 2012 surpassed 30 million, which equates to roughly six out of every 10 people, according to a study in late August [2012] by SK Telecom and other telecommunications companies.And increasing by about a million every three months at that time; the upper limit is the 53m total mobile phone population.For comparison, the US has 133m smartphone users (out of a mobile population of 234m) according to ComScore, and the UK had 36m smartphone users at the end of 2012 and 47m on non-smartphones,according to Portio Research.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Internet users are unwittingly turning into online pirates over confusion about what constitutes illegal downloading.As many as 44% of those who took part in an independent, online survey of 2,500 respondents in the survey commissioned by the law firm Wiggin incorrectly said they thought it was legal to upload commercially produced media to a file-sharing website, or did not know whether it was lawful or not.More than a third – 35% – inaccurately claimed it was legal to copy a film or TV show as a file from a friend, or admitted they didn't know if it was legal.Most respondents, however, agreed that copyright is important and that infringement should be prevented: 68% said it was necessary to protect the creative industries from piracy, up from 55% in 2010.However, almost two-thirds admitted they regularly use search engines such as Google to find unauthorised content. Over one in four used search engines on a daily basis to find such material.
PerhapsTerrariamight simplistically be painted as "Minecraftin 2D, with cutesy pixel art". It's not necessarily the fairest description though, as each game's approach to world-building is very different.Terrariais a touch more focused. There are objectives – mainly bosses to find and defeat – and a greater emphasis on combat than its blocky rival. It's also more imaginative in what it allows players to craft, from laser swords to magic spells. This new console port proves tricky though – controls are far from intuitive and you'll want to play the short tutorial to get the best from the game. Once you "get" it though, the world is yours, and multiplayer through Xbox Live is a joy.
In 1975, a computer scientist named Fred Brooks published one of the seminal texts in the literature of computing. It had the intriguing title ofThe Mythical Man-Monthand it consisted simply of a set of essays on the art of managing large software projects. Between its covers is distilled more wisdom about computing than is contained in any other volume, which is why it has never been out of print. And every government minister, civil servant and chief executive thinking about embarking on a large IT project should be obliged to read it – and answer a multiple-choice quiz afterwards.How come? Fred Brooks was the guy who led the team that in the 1960s created the operating system for IBM's 360 range of mainframe computers. This was probably the largest non-military software project ever mounted, and it was of vital strategic importance to IBM, which then completely dominated the computer business. It also turned out to be vastly more complex than anyone – including Fred – anticipated, and it rapidly metamorphosed into a kind of death march.The project fell further and further behind schedule. But because IBM was a rich company and OS/360 was so important, it was able to throw more and more resources (ie programmers) at the task. But as it did so, the problems got worse, not better. At which point Fred Brooks had his epiphany: he realised that every time he added a programmer to the team the project fell further behind.In the end, however, the job was done. The death march ended, OS/360 was delivered and IBM went on to make a lot of money from it. Brooks, for his part, resigned from the company, became professor of computer science at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill and then sat down to write the book that made him famous. His aim was to distil into a set of elegant essays everything he had learned from the OS/360 experience. The striking title came from his epiphany – the realisation that man-months are a hopeless metric for assessing the size of a complex software project.Why? Basically because a big software project involves two kinds of work: the actual writing of computer code; and co-ordinating the work of the dozens – or maybe hundreds – of programmers working on different parts of the overall system. Co-ordination represents an essential but unproductive overhead: and the more programmers you have, the bigger that overhead becomes. Hence Brooks's law: adding manpower to a late software project makes it later.Over the years, fragments of Fred Brooks's wisdom have percolated into the consciousness of ministers, civil servants and chief executives. But only fragments. In Britain we are wearily familiar with the long, dreary catalogue of botched or outlandishly expensive government IT projects. This is not just a public sector problem, however. Research conducted by two Oxford academics andpublished in theHarvard Business Reviewsuggests that the private sector has almost as much difficulty managing big software projects, and that some such projects have even endangered the survival of the companies that embarked upon them.A case in point was the venerable clothing manufacturer Levi Strauss. In 2003 it was a global corporation, with operations in more than 110 countries but with an IT system that was an antiquated, "Balkanised" mix of incompatible country-specific systems. So its bosses decided to migrate to a single SAP system and hired a team of fancy consultants (from Deloitte) to lead the effort. "The risks seemed small," wrote the researchers. "The proposed budget was less than $5m." But very quickly things fell apart. One major customer, Walmart, required that the system interface with its supply chain management system, creating additional work. During the switchover to the new system, Levi Strauss was unable to fulfil orders and had to close its three US distribution centres for a week. In 2008, the company took a $192.5m charge against earnings to compensate for the botched project — and fired its chief information officer.The Oxford researchers examined more than 1,400 big IT projects – comparing their budgets and estimated performance benefits with the actual costs and results. The average project cost $167m and the largest a whopping $33bn. The researchers' sample drew heavily on US-based projects but found little difference between them and European projects. Likewise, they found little difference between private companies and public agencies. One in six had a cost overrun of 200%.The message is clear: if you run a big company or a government department and are contemplating a big IT product, ask yourself this question: can your company or your ministerial career survive if the project goes over budget by 40% or more, or if only 25-50% of the projected benefits are realised? If the answer is "no" go back to square one. And read Fred Brooks's lovely book.
As a third-person "massively multiplayer online" (MMO) shooter from developer Trion Worlds,Defiancetranscends both genre and narrative boundaries; the plot runs concurrently with aTV series of the same namebroadcast on the Syfy channel. It's a broadly interesting story concerning the struggle for survival on a near-future Earth ravaged by an inconclusive war between humans and an alien alliance called Votans.Players take on the role of an Ark Hunter, a scavenger for hire scouring the San Francisco wasteland in search of useful relics from the decaying Votan fleet breaking up in low orbit. When large chunks of these ships fall to Earth at random intervals – events called Ark Falls – Ark Hunters rush to the scene to fight over the smouldering remains.Initially, these moments seem to break up the more conventional grinding quests on offer, but anyone familiar with the repetitive nature of many MMOs will soon notice their character's story involves little more than moving between distant locations where something needs to be shot or blown up. That these MacGuffin objects sometimes fall from the sky is a gimmick with a short shelf life.Defianceisn't awful, but considering its bold narrative intentions it's disheartening to find an unexceptional game beneath the lofty ambition.
The use of cheap, miniature "everyman" drones needs to be banned by international treaties before such devices fall into the hands of private users including terrorists, the head of Google has said.In an extended interview with the Guardian, Eric Schmidt, executive chairman of Google and an adviser to Barack Obama's presidential campaign, warned of the potential of new technology to "democratise the ability to fight war", and said drones could soon be used to harass and spy on neighbours."You're having a dispute with your neighbour," he hypothesised. "How would you feel if your neighbour went over and bought a commercial observation drone that they can launch from their back yard. It just flies over your house all day. How would you feel about it?"Schmidt set out the trajectory of robotic warfare and considered whether it would be confined solely to national governments. "It's probable that robotics becomes a significant component of nation state warfare," he said."I'm not going to pass judgment on whether armies should exist, but I would prefer to not spread and democratise the ability to fight war to every single human being."It's got to be regulated. You just can't imagine that British people would allow this sort of thing, and I can't imagine American people would allow this sort of thing. It's one thing for governments, who have some legitimacy in what they're doing, but have other people doing it … It's not going to happen."The US government's use of military drones has proven increasingly controversial, with drone strikes on American citizens the subject of a recent12-hour Senate filibusterby the Republican senator Rand Paul. TheBureau of Investigative Journalism estimatesthat US drone strikes in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia have been responsible for at least 2,772 deaths.Schmidt's warnings on privacy in the robotic era notwithstanding, Google itself has been frequently criticised by privacy campaigners concerned about the company's huge reach and the extensive data collection used to power its multibillion-dollar advertising sales.Challenged on these issues, Schmidt said Google was "super-sensitive" on privacy and had voluntarily kiboshed projects it thought could lead to privacy breaches. "Google is not a bunch of engineers who throw stuff over the wall," he said. "A classic example is that a team built a facial-recognition tool. It was just really good – state of the art at the time. We stopped that product for two reasons. One is that it turned out to be illegal in Europe and the second was that it was not a good product to offer in the US for the same reasons."Schmidt, who said he was "literally in the room" when the decision was made to kill the product, said it had been a judgment call taken on Google's own initiative."Facial recognition, completely unmonitored, can be used for very bad things," he said. "It can be used for stalking, for example. You know, it's just we don't want to be part of that as a company. There are cases where facial recognition can be used, but they need to be fairly carefully boxed."Schmidt also addressed the "transition fund", valued at between €50m and €60m (£33m- £39m), set up by Google after negotiations with the French government. The fund will support technologies to help French publishing companies that are suffering during the transition to digital to monetise their content.Schmidt avoided the question of whether a similar fund could be established in the UK. "I'm sure we can talk about it," he said. "The reason I like this model is it's … I don't like the idea of randomly writing cheques to publishers in the old model, and I think it's a very good idea for Google to assist in the transformation of their business model from old to new."
A few years ago, a new threat to road safety emerged: Satnav Racer. Millions of drivers (I forget the exact figure – it was probably a survey of about three people) admitted to trying to get home before their satnavs predicted they would. Britain's roads were no longer safe.In these leaner economic – and more environmentally-conscious – times, you don't hear so much about Satnav Racer. I have, however, identified a potentially even more lethal menace: MPG Man. You'll find&nbsp;him in a hybrid because everything in a hybrid – the displays, the green lights, the bar charts – is telling you to milk every last inch from your gallon. Why's that dangerous? Because not only does MPG Man try to use the accelerator as little as possible, but he's reluctant to go anywhere near the brake. Plus he's so obsessed with the display that he's not thinking about anything else.I become him in this Auris Hybrid. I'm not slowing down for corners, junctions, anything. Even though the battery charges when I brake, it means I'll only have to accelerate again: better to stick to one speed. So I'm sailing round tight turns in narrow residential streets at 30mph. I'm not indicating: that would use precious battery power, compromise my electricity and mean that the petrol engine will kick in sooner. Why bother with lights at all, in fact, when there are street lights? Was that a school back there? Who knows. Oh, and I'm freezing – numb with cold – but I'm certainly not going to risk the heater. I still never achieved Toyota's claimed 72.4mpg.All that aside (actually, I think there might even be the teeniest something in the above), the Auris isn't a bad car. The design has been sharpened up (you don't remember the previous Auris? Exactly), though its ugly rear doesn't look as if it belongs to its more successful front end. Inside, it's blandsville central, though not entirely unpleasant. There's more room in the boot than in the hybrid version of the last model because they've moved the battery under the back seat.To drive? Around town it's quiet and easy. It makes a bit of a fuss getting up to speed on the motorway, but once there it's more relaxed about it. The ride is firm, quite harsh on the speed bumps (don't forget we're not slowing down for them), and the steering is surprisingly precise – good for those tight 30mph turns... Oh yes. Once the green mist descends and you're transformed into MPG Man, the Auris Hybrid becomes much more exciting to drive. But on the downside, you are now a major threat to road safety.Toyota Auris HybridPrice£21,745Top speed112mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.9 secondsCombined fuel consumption72.4mpg (they say)CO2emissions91g/kmGreen rating9/10Cool rating6/10
Following the launch of Wii U earlier this year, Nintendo has confirmed that many of the Wii's online services will be switched off at the end of June. This sees the death of Mii Contest, News Channel, Forecast Channel and also Everybody Votes, the charmingly silly daily straw poll of Wii users. Say goodbye while you still can …Games out this week includeInjustice: Gods Among Us(PS3, Wii U, Xbox) delivering weakly plotted and oddly puny battles between various superheroes and villains; the interesting, thoughtful, if not entirely successfulPapo &amp; Yo(PC) arrives on PC following an exclusive spell on PlayStation Network, and remains the only game to tackle parental alcoholism; whileDeadly Premonition: Director's Cut(PS3) adds 3D, PS Move support and downloadable content to the Twin Peaks-inspired, surreal comedy-horror.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewWeaving a decades-spanning yarn about the fictitious land of Ylisstol and its monarchy, Fire Emblem offers plenty of familial intrigue in its distinct brand of turn-based strategy. It's a game that favours plot, so much that there's a feeling of loss when your failures result in the death of a character – the game's default position is that war fatalities are gone forever, adding a knife-edge to decisions. Story exposition is via lengthy text-only scenes that suffer from lacklustre translation, although it's not enough to spoil the unique personality and sense of character development as the story unfolds. Protagonists bring their relationships with them to the battlefield, providing better support to their chums and even getting married if they get really friendly. While beautifully orchestrated, dexterity-free battles are the focus, the RPG-style levelling-up provides  its own fascinating risk and reward.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewDespite being almost destroyed during its development, with a clone by a rival developer released months earlier, Ridiculous Fishing is a work of perfection. It's divided into three phases. First, you cast your hook into the sea, letting it drift downwards, tilting your iPhone to avoid fish, crabs, squid and the game's catalogue of made-up ocean fauna (the geometric graphics are witty, even rather chic). Then, once you've caught something, your lure rises back to the surface, and this time your job is to hook as much as you can. And at the surface, your fish are catapulted into the air, where you shoot them to pieces, earning money only when each has been blasted to a fine crimson pulp. Ridiculous, yes, but also astoundingly compelling, especially when you start spending money in the game's shop, buying longer fishing lines, more powerful guns and electrical goods to stun your prey should you touch a fish on the way down. Brilliantly realised foolishness.
I am face to face with the man who knows everything about me. He knows where I've been, who I know and what I think.&nbsp;He knows what I&nbsp;do and when I do it; who I talk to and what I want to do next.&nbsp;He knows about my health, my work, my home, my finances, my dreams.His face is a foot away from mine. He is middle aged, with steel-rimmed glasses and a white open-necked shirt. He&nbsp;looks pleasant.He is not a government agent or a policeman. My instinct is to trust this man, so mildly spoken and full of precisely articulated reason. He is telling me about my future – for he knows about that, as well. He knows about your future, too – yours and billions like you.He begins to explain this future. He knows how human beings will learn, travel, heal themselves, do politics, conduct business and wage war. He sees everything and can rationalise everything. And – I can't quite get this thought out of my head – he knows all about me.But I know I'm getting carried away. It's not that Eric Schmidt does actually know all these things about me.&nbsp;Not me by name. But his company collects and stores an extraordinary amount of data about all of us, albeit in an anonymised form. Which is all well and good, until government agencies come knocking on Schmidt's door – as they didmore than 20,000 times in the second half of last year. The company usually obliges with US officials. (It's more complicated with others.) This will only get worse.The balance between the power for good of this infinite ocean of data – benignly represented by the man in front of me – and the awful potential of its misuse clearly troubles Schmidt. So much so that he has written abookabout it.This is the second time in a week or so that we have hung out. The first time is in Delhi,when I&nbsp;interview him in front of an audience of Indian media and technology types. On stage he's confident, quick-witted and even a bit puckish.We're due to meet again in London but he tells me he's going to cancel as he's damaged his shoulder in a sporting injury. I'm intrigued by his choice of work-out – not your average exercise for a 57-year-old engineer-turned-global-executive chairman. Was it public knowledge that he had this particular (entirely blameless) pastime? "No," he says emphatically, adding without apparent irony, "You have to fight for your privacy or you lose it."So the second time we literally hang out, on aGoogle Hangout– Skype with bells and whistles – of the sort he built for just this kind of encounter. He's in New York; I'm in London, hoping he won't notice the clutter in my office. Eric Schmidt looks like a clear-desk man.His shoulder is better, though he advises me off&nbsp;the meds his doctors had given him in India. "I&nbsp;was totally out of it for about four days."I hadn't noticed. He'd seemed the same Schmidt as now – thoughtful, controlled, precise, sharp. It's just over 12 years since the managerial computer scientist joined Google as the "adult" to babysitLarry Page and Sergey Brin, the kids who'd started it all. He'd begun life writing programmes on old mainframes before discovering he had an entrepreneurial streak – and&nbsp;that he wasn't bad at figures, strategy and running things. He's now executive chairman of one of the most powerful companies in history.Blessed are the geeks etc: Schmidt issaid to be worth $8.2bn(£5.4bn). But, while he has indeed inherited quite a bit of the Earth, he remains a most unusual chairman. Within the past few weeks he has been hanging out in North Korea. Physically, not just down a computer line. (Asked why, he deadpans: "Free food, you know, hang out with the basketball players, that kind of thing. Sorry, wrong guy.")What's more, it was in Iraq that he struck on the idea of writing a book – at a chance encounter with his future co-author, the writer and foreign policy adviserJared Cohen. That was in 2009, a time when there wasn't a long queue of Fortune 500 bosses at Baghdad International Airport. "It&nbsp;was the first of these kinds of trips, of seeing what the world was really like."Among his main discoveries was that people are the same the world over. "I've never met a person who does not want a safer world, better medical care and education for their children, and&nbsp;peace with their neighbours.&nbsp;I just don't meet those people.&nbsp;What I meet, over and over again, as I travel around, is that the essential human condition is optimistic – in every one of these places.&nbsp;They may or may not have reasonable governments, but the people are the same as us."These expeditions – to several parts of Africa, the Middle East, Burma, Malaysia, Iran – developed a triple function. To make money for Google, obviously. To gather material for the book (co-writing it along the way on Google Docs, naturally). And – how to put it? – a kind of global corporate social responsibility for a company that believes in the public realm as well as in keeping its shareholders happy.Schmidt re-orders these. "Google was founded to get information to everybody," he says. "A&nbsp;by-product of that strategy is that we invented an advertising business which has provided great economics that allows us to build the servers, hire&nbsp;the employees, create value. The book was an old-world artefact intended to start a conversation about what's going to happen to the&nbsp;planet when another five billion people become digitally connected. Which, thanks to mobile technologies, is sooner than you think."There's a lot of discussion in the world about&nbsp;the two billion that are connected," he says. "We spend all day talking about the issues of e-commerce and start-ups and globalisation and so forth, and we forget that the majority of people are not online and that they will come online, the majority of them in the next five years."It's going to happen very fast. It's going to happen in countries which don't have the same principles that we in America have from the British legal system – around law and privacy and those sorts of things. All sorts of crazy stuff is going to happen. Human societies can't change that fast without both good and negative implications."Eric Schmidt: 'Human societies can’t change that fast 
 without both good and negative implications.’ Photograph: Christopher Lane for the GuardianSchmidt has generally been thought a technological optimist – and he still overwhelmingly celebrates the way connectivity will rapidly revolutionise medicine, education, agriculture and productivity for the rest of the world. But the book is also very alive to the downsides of what is to come – either through the&nbsp;behaviour of repressive states or the actions of a tiny minority, including terrorists. "The future for us is great. The quality of life of the first world just gets better and better and better. But for these people, they're going to go through a rough patch where all this information shows up and they can't quite figure out what to&nbsp;do."It's a mantra in everything he talks about. He doesn't waste much breath on China – Google's very public falling-out is well-documented. He was shocked to find that North Korea had built its own version of the internet – a kind of national intranet. He chides India and Russia for various restrictive bits of legislation around the liability for content. Burma's new press laws "look like Stalin's Russia".In Mexico, he worries about the government building a dossier on every citizen as part of the narco wars. He ridicules the leaders of Libya, Tunisia and Egypt, past or present, for misunderstanding the open nature of the internet. In South Sudan he becomes excited at the possibilities of how much information can be&nbsp;smuggled via tiny SD micro-cards.He is more circumspect about Europe: a hefty chunk of Google's vast legal team has had its work cut out in recent months and years trying to navigate the political and commercial eddies in both Germany and France."We've been engaged in lengthy conversations, through the [French] president's office, with the chief publishers," he says with a barely masked sigh of frustration. "They have a problem where the digital transition is not happening fast enough from a revenue perspective, something you understand very well in Britain as well. And so what we agreed, after a lot of give and take with the president, was tocreate a digital transition fund of€50m or€60m, I believe, over a five-year period. And that money will be run by a board [that] will then choose the technologies and new ways of monetising digital content for France. I&nbsp;think this is an excellent outcome for France."That sounds great, I say. Can we have one, too?"I'm sure we can talk about it." Nervous laugh.You can just say yes.Schmidt sighs again. The prospect of European governments (and media companies) forming an orderly queue behind the French is obviously one that has occurred to him. He prevaricates: "The reason I like this model is it's… I don't like the idea of randomly writing cheques to publishers in the old model, and I think it's a very good idea for Google to assist in the transformation of their business model from old to new. So it's a very good positioning."Change of subject. He wants to return to the future. The book has sections on how domestic life will change – how your mobile phone will make you dinner in the evening while your fridge does your son's homework and your smart lawn mower performs a hip-replacement operation on your husband… that sort of thing. All this from the man who is about to bring you glasses you can talk to. ("You don't say much to it, by the way.") The future is going to be great for robots, it turns out – but also, he insists, for human beings, so long as they can become more creative. Which they will.But the bigger stuff – on the future of nation states, politics and war, the Balkanisation of the internet – is less familiar. He is particularly exercised about the miniaturisation of war – for example, the prospect of privately owned drones, which have the potential to act as a new type of IED, able to be used in the air or on the ground."Let me do it as a 'How would you feel?'," he&nbsp;says. "You're having a dispute with your neighbour. How would you feel if your neighbour went over and bought a commercial observation drone that they can launch from their back yard. It just flies over your house all day. How would you feel about it?"If you look at the miniaturisation of drones, there will be restrictions on them. I can give you worse examples, but you get the idea. So it's probable that robotics becomes a significant component of nation state warfare. I'm not going to pass judgment on whether armies should exist, but I would prefer to not spread and democratise the ability to fight war to every single human being."It's got to be regulated. You just can't imagine that British people would allow this sort of thing, and I can't imagine American people would allow this sort of thing. It's one thing for governments, who have some legitimacy in what they're doing,&nbsp;but have other people doing it… It's not going to happen."I suggest that the question of what you do about bad things that can't be uninvented applies&nbsp;to Google itself. He bridles at the word "Frankenstein"."Google is not a bunch of engineers who throw stuff over the wall," he says rather stiffly."A classic example is that a team built a facial-recognition tool. It was just really good – state of the art at the time. We stopped that product for two reasons. One is that it turned out to be illegal in Europe and the second was that it was not a good product to offer in the US for the same reasons. So we didn't do it."What stopped it in the US?"Our judgment. I made the decision; I was literally in the room.""Facial recognition, completely unmonitored, can&nbsp;be used for very bad things. It can be used for stalking, for example. You know, it's just we don't want to be part of that as a company. There are cases where facial recognition can be used, but they need to be fairly carefully boxed. If you look at Facebook, for example, they have this Facebook tagging thing which is essentially face recognition, and they went through a huge cycle where they made it too aggressive. People got freaked out, and then they had to pull back on it. So we're super-sensitive on any of these privacy issues.He warns of the dangers of combining London-style traffic cameras with this technology. "You could imagine the sort of aggressive, obnoxious autocrats saying, 'Well, we need this to keep our people under control', and once those things are in place, they're very hard to turn off. They really are."His research led him to a conversation with Wikileaks founder Julian Assange. He was struck by one "important" argument Assange advanced – that systematic evil has to be written down, and therefore can be subverted by leaking. He ponders how events in Hitler's Germany or Rwanda might have been different with the internet. "So I had sympathy for the Assange intellectual argument, but not sympathy for the implementation."Why not the implementation, if whistleblowing is an answer to bad things happening?His instincts as a cautious Fortune 500 executive chairman kick in. "I want to be careful about what I'm saying about leaking. This is a minefield."Pressed further, he picks his words with care: "The problem is… who gets to decide who does&nbsp;the leaking? Well, Assange's answer was himself,&nbsp;and I was never able to determine any providence, god, religion, or so forth, that had appointed Julian Assange to be the person to make that decision, because it's a pretty weighty&nbsp;decision. "Finally, some questions about Schmidt himself. The announcement that he's soonselling off 40% of his Google stockhas provoked people to suggest his time with the company is coming to an end. "Completely false." Not thinking about a job in government? "No, never."Kindle or BlackBerry?"I'm a BlackBerry user. I like the keyboard, although BlackBerry is certainly in trouble."Facebook or Twitter?"Twitter has a more distinct model because of the celebrity and publishing model. Facebook is in a transition and I don't know enough about what they're transitioning to. I will tell you that, if you have a billion users, you can make money."Amazon or Apple?"I have a soft spot for Apple. They're both going&nbsp;to do well. Apple will continue to be a tremendous technology innovator and build beautiful products regardless of the market share of the products, and that's a great strength. Amazon has well passed any expectations of its ability to change distribution and marketing."iPad mini or iPad?"iPad."You don't like the little one?"It's too small."That's the point of it!"Take a look at the Samsung 10in tablet called the Nexus."India or China?"In the short term, China gets all the attention; the maths favours India. And I am a mathematician."The hang-out comes to an end and the mathematician disappears from my screen, leaving&nbsp;quite a few dreams in the air. And not a few&nbsp;nightmares.
Schmidt on the power of connectivityI would argue that Google and the internet enable people to move up the supply chain. So people, instead of doing rote work, can do more creative work. More creative work requires more jobs, more fees, and so forth.  Agriculture is getting mechanised, which has been true for hundreds of years; people are moving to cities. Cities are more productive than rural farming anyway; they are more connected.Creativity will drive innovation, innovation will drive new businesses, new jobs, and so forth. That's how economics works. That is the story of the British industrial revolution. If governments stay out of the way and allow this connectivity to occur, the core human creativity, this passion for making the world a better place, takes over.On privacyI'm concerned that we need to fight for our privacy or we'll lose it and the reason this is a concern of mine is that it's natural for these tools and technologies to aggregate information about citizens.You take notes as a journalist. Where do those notes go? If the Chinese had just hacked into the New York Times and had gone through their internal servers, how would you feel if you were a Chinese dissident? You'd be worried. So these are some of the problems that happen when everyone is connected.On anonymityGoogle will always allow for anonymous search. If you choose to be logged in and let us record more information about you, we can provide better service for you, but you don't have to. Anonymity is very important, especially for people who have reasons to believe that the state, or others, are going to hurt them. The internet, in general, has been pretty good about allowing for anonymity.Onclosing Google ReaderI do love Google Reader. All I can tell you is that there are very good choices on alternative readers and we needed those people to work on other, much more integrated products. It's always about priorities.The thinking that Larry [Page], Sergey [Brin] and I had was that it was time to stop throwing things over the fence and seeing what happened, but have a much more sophisticated understanding of the global impact of our problems and products.The term that we use internally is spring cleaning and Google Reader is an example of spring cleaning.On Julian AssangeAs a matter of historical interest, I wanted to understand what role Wikileaks would play. We met almost two years ago,well before the Embassy, and all this kind of stuff.He said a number of things which I thought were quite interesting. His core  idea is that systematic evil has to be written down and that, if you have a leaking culture in government, the government can't perpetuate mass evil because the stuff gets leaked before they can do it. That point makes sense to me. The problem is, who gets to decide who does the leaking? Well his answer was himself, and I was never able to determine any providence, god, religion, or so forth, that had appointed Julian Assange to be the person to make that decision.On the future of media and mobileMobile ads should ultimately be more valuable because we have more information about the consumer, because we're connected to them. We know, roughly, their location. If they choose to, they can share their history with us. They can also target the areas in which they want advertising.Five years from now, what will your average reader look like? He or she will have an ultra-powerful tablet, and a subscription on that tablet. The knowledge that's in that tablet about the readers and the things they care about will be so much greater than the newspaper of today. And it will be possible, reading a story, to go instantly deep about the origins, the history, the positioning, the debate. The evidence is that newspapers will thrive in this new model. Some will have subscriptions, sponsorships and some will have a free model.On the Arab SpringMany Americans wandered around saying somehow "we caused this" and that's clearly false. Having now visited these countries, they've had opposition movements for years, which were were brutally dealt with. For example, Gaddafi had a series of revolutionary groups in Benghazi which he literally roll-tanked and shot every three or four years. The contribution that the internet made was the enabling subset of communication that allowed courageous people to unify. That was the step that they had been missing previously and then it was their courage and real combat that led to everything else.On the future of nation statesThe nation states, at some basic level, are monopoly providers of services, they provide a unifying principle and ever since theTreaty of Westphaliaeverybody's sort of figured out what nations were and what nations did. That's not going to change. What will happen, is that the countries will have physical policies and virtual policies and they may be different. For example, China and the US may be able to collaborate in physical space on commerce and yet clearly have conflict in cyberspace.China is the source of many of the attacks on American firms, for example.  So that duality - a strategy for cyberspace, a strategy for physical space - is possible.On Google cultureSince starting at Google we developed a simple rule which is that when somebody makes a claim, someone in the room checks it. When we were going public, a finance person got up and made a claim about anIPOwhich didn't sound correct. So I checked it out, typed in the query, figured it out and now I've got the answer right in front of me. I'm the CEO, he's a CFO.Now I've got to make a decision. Do I embarrass him in front of his entire staff, or do I wait and embarrass him privately afterwards? Because it wasn't life critical, I let the meeting finish and then privately I showed him the information and then I said, "You were wrong, go correct it."That's true within Google and should be true everywhere. Hopefully you'll do it in a nice way. I would welcome if I said something to you that was false during this interview if you said, "Oh by the way, I just happened to be checking and what you said is not true." That's OK with me because I want to be truthful and you obviously want to be truthful as well. There are plenty of industries and places where that kind of behaviour is not how they behave.You know, we run Google from the basis of facts. And so usually the first answer out of Google is the correct answer, which is why it's fun to be associated with Google.On open versus closed - who's winning?The technical optimists would say the following: the power of the internet and the power of individual empowerment is so strong that it will be impossible for governments to resist that connectivity. The pessimists would say that intelligent governments, which do exist, that have smart engineers that work for them can figure out ways of breaking the internet.Here's how they do it. The term we use in the book [The New Digital Age, by Schmidt and Jared Cohen] is Balkanisation, meaning instead of having one global internet, having your own country internet. North Korea, I now understand, has its own internet. They have people copying the content that the respected leader thinks is OK and they put it on internal servers and they call that the internet. That's the crudest and least effective strategy, in my view.Let me give you some examples of what governments could do. There is something called the DNS, which is theDomain Name Service, which is how you get to things, soGoogle.com,Microsoft.com,guardian.co.uk. If you go in and you programme that in a certain way, you can actually delete things. You can also, at the protocol level, lock ports, so you can block, for example, access toYouTubein its entirety. So those have the property that it's not a flat open internet but rather it depends on which country you're in.There are things called VPNs. The Chinese Government, for example,plays a game we call whack-a-mole, where every time a VPN shows up, they shut it down and people move. Using modern encryption there are ways of getting even more sophisticated versions of this kind of thing working. The problem is that if you put these restrictions in place, the elites will figure out a way to get around it, but the average person won't, because they don't have time, or knowledge, or education, so there's a real loss of information.On educationWhat's the number one education problem in the developing world? Literacy and childhood education. Can we solve that? Absolutely, at a 100% level. We simply preload phones with all that teaching material. You do it in their local language and, because people are going to be using their phones, they might as well use them to learn how to read. That's easy.What's the next problem? The developing world don't have textbooks. So what's another solution? Preload their tablets. We have the textbooks for maths and science, in their languages.So now let's talk about college. Well in college you've got new online courses,they're called MOOCs, and the anecdotal evidence is that 90% of the viewers are not from the US, and the majority are not from the developed world. That tells me that if you go to Rwanda, Kenya, so forth, you've got an incredibly smart person who does not have textbooks and is hungry for the latest college and graduate school level education, they're going to get it online.So what do you need for that? You need bandwidth. If you're in a city in those countries you're going to get that education. If you're in a rural area, you may not, unless those governments are smart enough to get the 3G/4G networks out to the rural areas.In South Sudan we asked, "How do you get information to the people who are in north Sudan, or the Sudan people the government is busy hurting?" The simplest way to get them information is to smuggleSD cardsin - you know, the tiny little SD cards, because everybody has a phone.They turn out to be incredibly cheap, incredibly standardised, and it's a great way to get information about what's really going on in the world to closed societies. Even if you don't have an internet connection, or your internet connection is too expensive, you could have an SD card which would have the information that I'm describing. And these SD cards are getting more and more powerful.People in the developing world are much more clever than we think because they have to work with what they're given. So they'll find a way to solve their information problem with the tools at hand, and this SD card is an example.
A typist who complained on Twitter about what she claimed was late payment of a bill she was owed has discovered she is facing a libel battle that could cost her £150,000.Lesley Kemp, 55, from Milton Keynes, is being sued by a Qatar-based businessman, Kirby Kearns, for comments she made on the site about her fees in an attempt to persuade his company to pay up.Her case is the latest in a growing number of libel claims associated with the microblogging site but it could become a test case if, as her lawyer fears, Twitter is drawn into the action as the alleged publisher.Robert Dougans, a solicitor specialising in libel who is representing Kemp on a no win, no fee basis, said Kearns was planning to take action against Twitter as well."This case has got rather tortuous," Dougans told the Guardian. "The claim against her is for up to £50,000 damages and a high court trial is likely to cost £100,000 plus."He now wants to add Twitter as a defendant. She's not denying she made the comments. Her defence is justification and fair comment."Disputed comments made on Twitter or elsewhere online are increasingly ending up in full-blown legal actions as the courts apply traditional defamation laws to the internet.Sally Bercow, the wife of the Commons speaker, faces a high court hearing next week as part of the libel battle with Lord McAlpine over an allegedly defamatory Twitter message.Kemptold the Daily Mail: "It was only a small amount of money that we argued over but because I was broke and stressed I took to Twitter and went on a bit of a rant."There were a lot of emails between us before I took to Twitter. He said that I was damaging his reputation and that it was all done maliciously."I am not used to freelance work and didn't understand there is a culture of late payments and it's not uncommon to have to wait months to receive your fee."Neither Twitter nor the Qatar-based company run by Kearns responded to requests for comment.
How, exactly, did Microsoft do it? It's like a magician's trick. The raw numbers for Windows revenue in Microsoft's Windows division were very substantially up – from $4.633bn (£3bn) in the first three months of 2012, to $5.7bn in the same period this year.That's a 24% increase, at a time when we've been hearing thatPC sales have slumped. How has Microsoft done this? Has Steve Ballmer invented antigravity?Sadly, no (though it would make a great new business line).Make no mistake: Windows is still incredibly important to Microsoft. In this quarter it generated 27% of revenues, and 45% of profits. But how is it doing so well when the PC business is so dismal?Here's the first part of what happened. In June, Microsoft offered a scheme where people who bought a Windows 7 PC could update it to Windows 8 for just $15. The scheme ran through to December, and only after that could all the money received in it be cashed in. That gave a $1.1bn boost in "deferred" revenue which was really earned in the preceding six months, but couldn't be recognised then.Take that away from the latest total, and you're left with $4.60bn in this latest quarter, compared to $4.63bn a year ago.However, that still doesn't make sense in the context of a fall in PC shipments. And Peter Klein, Microsoft's outgoing chief financial officer, doesn't disagree that traditional PC sales are plunging: when asked what sort of decline, if any, Microsoft was seeing in shipments, he said: "On the PC market, I would look to some of the third parties, IDC and Gartner. They're sort of in the 12-13-14 [per cent] down range this quarter."And Chris Suh, Microsoft's general manager for investor relations, didn't disagree with the IDC./Gartner figures either. Asked for Microsoft's perspective, Suhsaid:"In the Windows division, revenue was flat this quarter. Within that, OEM revenue performance was in line with the underlying x86 PC market, which continues to be challenged as the PC market evolves beyond the traditional PC to touch and mobile devices.""OEM revenue" is money paid by companies putting Windows onto PCs before they ship them. If that was in line with the underlying market, then it must have fallen, because that's what happened to PC shipments.So how do we get to flat revenue for the division? Because of the other element – "non-OEM" revenue, such as people buying upgrade licences, or companies buying volume licences.And here's what Suh had to say about that: "Non-OEM revenue grew 40% this quarter, driven by sales of Surface and continued double-digit growth in volume licensing. Businesses continue to value the Windows platform, and volume licensing of Windows is on track to deliver almost $4bn in revenue this year, and nearly three-quarters of enterprise agreements that we signed this year include Windows."Note that point about Surface. Although Surface has only sold an estimated 1m-1.5m devices (Microsoft didn't give numbers), its revenues (and profits, if any) are allocated to the Windows division. Depending what price you put on it, you get different numbers; given that the Surface RT sold for around $900, principally through Microsoft's stores, the margins might have been thin but the revenue boost would be solid – perhaps as much as $1bn, perhaps only $500m.Even so, those are the sorts of numbers that can make a significant difference. If Surface goosed Windows figures even by just $500m, then that boosted them from $4.10bn. And compared with the year before, that would have been 12% down.Which, as it happens, is about the amount that PC shipments have gone down. Note that neither Klein nor Suh said that revenues fromWindows OEMswere flat – they said "Windows revenues".But even though it might seem like we've triangulated on how much Surface has contributed to Microsoft – perhaps $500m – that's almost certainly an overestimate. (Independently,Matt Rosoff at CITEWorld puts the figure at $420m.)Why? Suh also said: "Additionally, this quarter we saw continued progress in the transition of Windows XP to Windows 7, and now two-thirds of enterprise desktops are running Windows 7."With only a year's support left for Windows XP, businesses are being encouraged to upgrade as fast as they can – so that also boosted non-OEM revenue, as Suh noted above.The conclusion? Despite the brave top-line numbers, Microsoft's Windows business is actually hurting. Surface isn't contributing much yet, traditional PC sales are sliding, it doesn't have a tablet competitor yet (though Klein said clearly that it will have a "smaller" competitor – aka a rival to the iPad mini – soon enough), and the only thing really keeping everyone smiling is upgrades from businesses facing the wall of XP's end of life.Hence the faintly worrying question from Brad Reback, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus, who asked Klein: "This time next year, do we risk a real fall-off again in the PC business, because the upgrade cycle has aided what's been a difficult PC market the last couple of quarters?"Klein's response: "The upgrade cycle, particularly for businesses, will be interesting over the next year. I think over the longer term, what's more interesting is the long-term evolution we're seeing in the device market, which I think is actually going to be more of a driver than any temporal upgrade cycle …"(By this he means the shift towards tablets, and – Microsoft definitely hopes – "ultramobiles" such as the Surface Pro running Windows.)"I think that's what Windows 8 was designed to take advantage of, and so I think about the opportunity more about the new capabilities and the new services, and the experience that people can get on their devices and different kinds of devices, than it is about an upgrade cycle that's driven by something else."We'll have to come back in a year's time to see how that looks.Oh, and one other point: therewasn't a single mentionwere just two mentions in the earnings call and theearnings press releaseof Windows Phone. It really is the unloved stepchild.
One day, veteran game design Shinji Mikami will tire of survival horror and just bring out a match-three puzzler about unicorns. Today is not that day. After teasing us for several weeks, Bethesda has finally announced that it will be publishing the Resident Evil creator's latest title, The Evil Within – a horror game for PC, PS3, Xbox 360 and next-gen consoles, due out in 2014.Neither Bethesda, nor Mikami's studioTango Gameworksare saying much more, but Gematsu.com hastranslated the game's Japanese website:When Detective Sebastian and his partner rush to the scene of a gruesome mass murder, a mysterious, powerful force is lying in wait for them. Witnessing the killing of fellow police officers one after another, Sebastian is then attacked and loses consciousness. Waking up in a land where monsters are wandering about, Sebastian has to fight his way through a world of death and its close friend madness in order to understand what's going on. Sebastian has to face his fears in order to survive on a journey to discover what lies in the shadows of that mysterious force.The text promises a return to the brutal roots of survival horror with limited resources and an environment filled with puzzles and traps. Oh wait, Resident Evil meets Dark Souls? Apparently the world itself warps and transforms in real-time depending on player actions.IGN has an exclusive 'first impressions' article on Monday, and has released a sort of teaser video thing, with sort of movie footage of what the game might be like. I don't know what the official term is for these things. Concept videos? Live action trailers? Anyway, it seems to be channeling movies such as Ring, The Thing and Hellraiser, which is all good.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases.Looking for Android apps? Checkthis week's 20 best Android apps roundup, which was published earlier in the day. Here's this week's comparable iOS selection:The Thirty-Nine Steps (£4.99)Book publisher Faber and digital studio The Story Mechanics are giving John Buchan's famous novel an interactive twist for iPad. It puts you in the position of central character Richard Hannay, exploring scenes, collecting items and experiencing the story in a form somewhere between a book and a game.iPadCut the Rope: Time Travel (£0.69 / £1.99)Cutesy monster Om Nom has returned with a third Cut the Rope game for Android, with a time-travelling theme as he tries to feed sweets to his ancestors. The action is very similar to the previous games: you're cutting ropes to solve physics-puzzles across six locations, although this time there are two on-screen monsters to feed, not one. The link above is for iPhone, buthere's the iPad version.iPhone / iPadTwitter #music (Free)After lots of speculation this month, Twitter has finally launched its standalone music discovery app. It serves up charts of songs that are currently trending on Twitter – as well as those being tweeted by the people you follow – offering iTunes preview clips for most users, but full songs for paying Spotify and Rdio subscribers.iPhoneLife and Death in Pompeii and Herculaneum HD (£3.99)The British Museum is behind this new iOS app based on the Roman cities that were famously buried by a volcano eruption in AD 79. Based on the Museum's exhibition on the subject, the app groups more than 250 objects by street location, with zoomable images and commentary from experts including Mary Beard; and an interactive timeline of the eruption and its aftermath. A£1.99 non-HD version of the appis also available.iPhone / iPadYahoo! Weather (Free)iPhone owners already have a preloaded weather app using data from Yahoo, but this standalone app is a big step on in its production quality and features. The app provides forecasts, heat and wind maps and sunrise/sunset times among other features, with the twist that this data is accompanied by full-screen photos from that location, pulled from Yahoo's Flickr photo-sharing service.iPhoneHopscotch HD (Free)There are a number of apps aiming to help children learn to code – the recentHakitzu: Code of the Warriorand further-backMove the Turtlebeing two examples. Hopscotch HD is another: an iPad app offering a visual programming language for kids to create games and animations, aimed at 8-12 year-olds.iPadTouchfit: GSP (£4.99)Zolmo made its name with millions of downloads of its Jamie Oliver cooking apps. Now it's striking out into fitness, teaming up with mixed martial-arts fighter Georges St-Pierre. The app offers video workout exercises from Georges himself, and promises to adapt its routines based on your progress.iPhoneGuardianWitness (Free)Obvious disclosure: this is an app from the Apps Blog's parent company Guardian News &amp; Media. Described as "the home of user-generated content on the Guardian", the app helps readers contribute to live news stories, suggest other stories and features, and enter competitions. Submissions can include text, photos and/or videos.iPhoneFish Out of Water! (£0.69)I was up until midnight playing this last night, after having downloaded it for a quick play around 11pm. That's a guide to the addictive qualities of this latest game from Halfbrick Studios – the developer behind Fruit Ninja and Jetpack Joyride. You skim colourful fish across the ocean, get rated by crabs, and unlock gems to build power-ups. Sounds strange, plays marvellously.iPhone / iPadThe Animator's Survival Kit (£24.49)You're most likely to know Richard Williams from his work on Who Framed Roger Rabbit?, but he's also been delivering masterclasses for animators for a couple of decades now, teaching them the tricks of his trade. This iPad app from Faber includes content from his The Animator's Survival Kit book, but also animated examples from its DVD, video explanations from Williams himself, and some of his unreleased work. It may look expensive, but it's well worth the price for anyone serious about their animation.iPadYahoo! Mail (Free)The Yahoo! Mail app isn't new for smartphones, but the company has released a new version that's optimised for tablets. It works with the Yahoo! Mail service, with support for multiple accounts, photo attachments and notifications for new messages.iPadRoger Ebert's Film Festival (£4.99)There was an outpouring of praise and warmth when film critic Roger Ebert died earlier this month. Now, in time for the 15th anniversary of his Ebertfest film festival, there's an app to celebrate its history. Expect more than 100 hours of Q&amp;As and videos, browsable programmes, Ebert's own reviews of films screened during the festivals, and trailers – all with AirPlay support for Apple TV owners.iPadWee You-Things (£1.99)Children's app developer Wee Society has produced this colourful collection of characters to teach children to celebrate their differences rather than feel ashamed of them. It's all about "you-things – those little and big things that, together, make you special", with examples including Little Dot who gets scared a lot, Ruth with a purple tooth and Brad with two dads. The artwork is lovely, and music comes from indie band Rabbit.iPhone / iPadWagner's Ring Cycle (£5.99)This iPad app comes from classical music label Naxos: a companion app for Wagner's Ring Cycle operas, outlining their main "leitmotifs" with 130 audio clips, eight full tracks, and a mixture of biographical info on Wagner and plot summaries of the four operas.iPadTeenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Rooftop Run (£1.49)Cowabunga! Booyakasha! Eat My Shorts, Man! Oh wait, that's the other one. Yes, it's not just The Simpsons that's lasted as a TV brand: the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles have been cavorting on TV screens recently like it's 1989, and now there's an official iOS game. Released by Nickelodeon, it's a "combat runner" game set on the rooftops of New York. In-app purchases of up to £34.99 pay for additional virtual coins – somewhat surprising, given the young fanbase and the initial £1.49 download.iPhone / iPadBookworm Heroes (Free)Here's a fully-freemium game from EA's PopCap division – the home of Bejeweled and Plants Vs. Zombies. This is actually a new version of word-game Bookworm, reconfigured for the free-to-play market. You build words from letter tiles against Facebook friends, while earning or buying virtual coins to boost your prospects.iPhone / iPadOsom Market (Free)Swedish startup Osom is pitching its new app as "Instagram meets Craigslist": an app for buying and selling clothes, shoes and other items, with filtered photos and hashtags helping show off the items and make them findable. Vintage stores are expected to be among its sellers.iPhoneCalendo Event Discovery (Free)Calendo styles itself as a "smart recommendation engine" for events, based on your Facebook friends, location and existing tastes. The app wants users top open it regularly to see what events are coming up, with notifications for notable ones, and sharing features.iPhoneYoWindow (£0.69)One more weather app this week (hopefully) just in time for spring to finally get underway. The schtick here is that the app shows you a "living landscape" representing the weather in your chosen location, which you can swipe through to see how it's forecast to change.iPhoneThe London Coffee Guide (£1.99)Finally, something for caffeine-lovers in the capital, with this appy guide to more than 130 independent "coffee venues" in London – cafes, but also carts, kiosks and roasteries. Each gets its own profile with a review, opening hours and prices, as well as information on key features.iPhoneThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day. For now, read on for this week's Android selection.CSR Racing (Free)Freemium drag-racing game CSR Racing was one of the biggest iOS hits of 2012, but now it's roared onto Android. The game sees you buying, upgrading and racing a range of cars from Audi, BMW and other manufacturers, with an emphasis on customisation – and in-app purchases used to fund the action.Facebook Home (Free)Released on Google Play just after last week's Android roundup, Facebook Home is the social network's launcher for  taking over Android smartphone homescreens, putting friends' updates and photos front and centre. For now, it's officially only available for devices like the Galaxy S III, Galaxy Note II, HTC One X and HTC One X+, with more to follow.Cut the Rope: Time Travel (£0.62)Cutesy monster Om Nom has returned with a third Cut the Rope game for Android, with a time-travelling theme as he tries to feed sweets to his ancestors. The action is very similar to the previous games: you're cutting ropes to solve physics-puzzles across six locations, although this time there are two on-screen monsters to feed, not one.GuardianWitness (Free)Obvious disclosure: this is an app from the Apps Blog's parent company Guardian News &amp; Media. Described as "the home of user-generated content on the Guardian", the app helps readers contribute to live news stories, suggest other stories and features, and enter competitions. Submissions can include text, photos and/or videos.MyGlass (Free)MyGlass has a small niche audience for now: early recipients of the first Google Glass eyewear prototypes. The app enables them to configure and manage the device from their Android phones. More than 1,000 people have already downloaded the app, as the first devices are sent out.Dungeon Hunter 4 (Free)Gameloft's dungeon-crawling adventure is back for its fourth iteration, and like the third instalment, this is freemium. Buying gems in-app beefs up your prospects as you wander through sprawling environments laying waste to enemies.Libon (Free)Libon is the work of Orange, promising "visual voicemail that does it all". That means free Voice-over-IP calls and instant messaging, with a voicemail feature to handle calls when you're not available to answer, with email notifications and text messages.Yahoo! Mail (Free)The Yahoo! Mail app isn't new for Android smartphones, but the company has released a new version that's optimised for tablets. It works with the Yahoo! Mail service, with support for multiple accounts, photo attachments and notifications for new messages.Tripomatic City Guides &amp; Maps (Free)Tripomatic is one of the startups trying to build a business out of personalised travel guide apps. This is its first Android release, providing guides to more than 40k attractions in 300 holiday spots around the world. The idea: you can plan an itinerary – using the app or the Tripomatic website – then access it on the go, and also add your own places if desired.Stick Cricket Premier League (Free)As the Indian Premier League cricket league gets underway in its sixth season, there's a marvellous spin-off game from Stick Sports that lets you build and manage a squad as well as slogging it out on the pitch. It's based on the existing Stick Cricket game, with similarly addictive gameplay.iBomber (Free)Arcade bombing game (as in bomber pilots and planes, obviously) iBomber was great fun on iOS when it came out in 2009. Now it's finally available on Android. The game sees you flying missions over the Pacific Ocean in 1943, with 26 to complete, and social features to compare your skills with friends.OrSaveIt (Free)OrSaveIt is described as an "impulse savings app" – something designed to help you save money for specific goals or treats. "Choose a picture of your saving goal, set your target amount and then use the impulse save icons to make saves, on the go," explains its Google Play listing.Paper Toss 2.0 (Free)It's a mark of the Paper Toss series' popularity that a few days after launch, this sequel is already past the 500k downloads mark on Android. The core gameplay is the same as its predecessor: chucking paper balls into an office wastepaper basket with flicks of your finger. This time round, bananas, grenades and co-workers are flung into the mix.PODFY - Podcast Player (£1.96)PODFY styles itself as a "cloud podcast player" which runs across smartphones, tablets and PC. It keeps tracks of the podcasts you've downloaded, and enables you to sort them into playlists – with automation to lighten the load of compiling them.Crunchd (Free)Crunchd is an app for people who grow, cook and eat their own food, aiming to connect them with one another in local communities. The idea is that they swap advice, keep diaries of what they're growing and eating, upload photos and trade excess produce with one another.Visual Calendar for Tablets (£3.91)Visual Calendar is certainly ambitious: an app that wants to "change the way you plan your life". If you think that means a slick-looking calendar app with neat coloured icons, take a bow. "Think Mind Map for your project turned into actual tasks and dates, or events and appointments from your organizer presented in an intuitive, task-oriented way," explains its Google Play listing. Well worth a look.I Am Vegend – Zombiegeddon (Free)Birds, pigs and zombies... together at last! Android game I Am Vegend has its tongue in its cheek across its 45 missions, for a game that's less a parody and more a "mind-blowing travesty of mobile game hits". It looks good fun though.First Wood War (Free)First Wood War looks like a game with plenty to chew on for more serious gamers: a real-time strategy game with a player-versus-player online mode, impressive graphics and more than 20 battle maps to explore in its solo mode. It's all set in the woods, which brings us neatly on to...Forest HD (£0.99)This sits somewhere between an app and a live wallpaper: an atmospheric virtual forest to explore, peering at birds, deer and plants, with add-on packs offering butterflies, babbling brooks and customisation.Measure Book (£1.95)Finally, Measure Book, a productivity app for people making home improvements. It lets you take photos of rooms, then insert lines and measurements to check fittings, sharing the results by email, Facebook or via cloud services Evernote and Dropbox.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Microsoft is working with manufacturers to produce a line of small Windows-powered touchscreen devices to compete with fast-selling tablets such as the iPad Mini and Amazon Kindle Fire.Peter Klein, Microsoft's chief financial officer, told investors and analysts on a conference call on Thursday that the new devices will be available in coming months at "competitive" prices.Rumours that Microsoft would seek to compete in the fast-growing "mini-tablet" space have been growing over the past weeks.Klein also hinted that an upcoming revision to Windows 8, codenamed "Blue" and due this year, will reinstate the "Start" button that has been familiar to Windows users since 1995. The changes will be partly due to "customer feedback", Klein said.Earlier in April the research companies Gartner and IDC reported a slump in PC sales, with IDC blaming it in part on Windows 8 itself because it said the new interface was puzzling would-be buyers.Yet Microsoft shrugged off a 14% slump in PC sales during the first quarter to report net income of $6.1bn (£3.9m), up 18% from $5.1bn a year ago, beating analysts' forecasts – though those had been trimmed last month in expectations that the poor computer shipments would have a deeper impact.However the company did not release any figures for licence sales of Windows 8 – a figure that some had expected to hear. The last update on that came back in January, when it said it has sold 60m – though the majority of those would be to manufacturers who bundle Windows with new machines.In adjusted figures, allowing for a $733m fine from the European Commission for briefly failing to offer a choice on browsers, and $1.1bn of "deferred" Windows revenue, overall revenues would have risen by 8%.The "deferred revenue" came from a $15 upgrade offer to Windows 8 on Windows 7 PCs that were bought after 2 June: accounting rules meant Mcirosoft couldn't record the full value of those licences until the offers were either redeemed or expired. That meant that in the recent quarter it added that deferred revenue to its figures, for a huge boost.At the company's largest division, Business, revenue rose 8% from a year ago to $6.3bn. The increase was 5% adjusting for upgrade offers for the new Office suite.But the story for the Windows division would be less rosy. Including the deferrals, revenues rose from $4.63bn to $5.70bn, up 23%. But spreading the $1.1bn over the nine-month period since 2 June, and comparing it with the same period from 2011/12, revenues were up just 4% for a period including two quarters of the launch of a new version of Windows – usually a driver of growth.Microsoft is trying to extend its software into smartphones and tablets as consumers turn away from PCs, the foundation of its empire. Over the winter, it launched two larger "convertibles" under the Surface brand, but sales so far have been slow, with analysts estimating the total at about 1.5m.In October, the company took a large stake in Barnes &amp; Noble's digital unit, which sells a line of entertainment-oriented tablets under the Nook brand.Outside the Windows division, Microsoft posted solid results from its Office, software tools and Xbox divisions.Even if the company has a lot of challenges, "there's a lot of good things going on at Microsoft," said Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Partners.The company's shares rose $0.81, or 2.8%, to $29.60 in extended trading, after the release of the report.Microsoft also said Klein is leaving at the end of the fiscal year, in June. He has been in his current role for four years and at the company for 11 years. The company plans to name a new chief financial officer in the next few weeks.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.The Future of Games: F2P Is Not Evil Nor The Only Solution | GamesIndustry InternationalWill Luton:Free-to-play has fractured the industry, creating smug preaching zealots in the column inches (hello, mum) and neo-luddite reactionaries decrying the advance from the conference podiums. Anti-F2P rhetoric from the bleeding hearts is just as much the mind-numbing wibble as "the only way" lectures from the moneymen."Public discussions and formalisation of concepts such as Skinner Box experiments and core loops seemed shallow, cold and greedy"This nonsense of drawing us-and-them divides and speaking in unwavering certainty is making fools of us all. F2P is divisive when it needn't be. This is a call for the inevitable restoration of common sense.A reasoned look at the ever-present F2P debate.The Real Sega Pluto – Assembler Games forumAn amazing post on the Assember rare games forum from someone claiming to be a former Sega employee showing off a prototype Pluto console: essentially a Saturn with a built in Netlink modem:A little more background info -- as most of you know, Sega is a company with a history of turmoil. Employee turnover is a sad theme, and the Sonic Reaper (as we call him) strikes all too frequently. As such, the past gets forgotten quickly -- treasures from the previous generation are quickly cast aside, as a new regime tries to make a name for themselves (or justify their existence). As such, some of said treasures get left on laid-off-peoples' desks. And in a beautiful twist of fate, this beauty ended up finding its way to my desk, and then in a box with the rest of my stuff when I left Sega.I was told that only two of these prototypes were made -- and this is #2.This thing is a beast, and definitely the heaviest console I've ever held in my hands. The front features two controller ports, and on top you have a flip-top drive bay, a cart slot, a Power button, and the venerable Reset button. Note that the logo still says Saturn, so I'm guessing the Pluto codename was simply that, and they were thinking of branding it with the Saturn name. (The logo is printed on production-style though, so I'm guessing they were fairly serious about this one.) The left and right sides feature beautiful-and-exotic vents, while the back is standard Saturn, save for the Netlink ports. The bottom has nothing of note except for the "PLUTO-02" sticker (which is, of course, of note).Wow, Sega really did get through almost all the solar system between Mega Drive and Dreamcast!UnderCurrent aims to bring deep sea exploration to Oculus Rift | JoystiqUnderCurrent is an Unreal-powered deep sea exploration game designed for Oculus Rift from a group of university students over in the UK. The group became fascinated with VR technology and has already put together three different levels, though the collective notes that some of the core mechanics of UnderCurrent are still undetermined.You can read more about this project on the studentworkblog.Microsoft's Zoo unveiled - screens of canned Xbox sim are Viva Pinata with Avatars | The Official MagazineOnce upon a time, Frontier Developments of Kinectimals and "David Braben hates pre-owned" fame was working on a reboot of Zoo Tycoon for Xbox, known as Microsoft Zoo. That's according to former lead artist and UI team leader Anil Glendinning, who has posted a number of screenshots on his personal site."Part zoo creation and part animal interaction, this 3rd person adventure was all charm and lay the groundwork for what would eventually become Kinectimals," Glendinning recalls.Team Bondi staff sacked, Whore of the Orient development on hold | Eurogamer.netStaff have been let go at L.A. Noire developer Team Bondi and development of its upcoming open-world game Whore of the Orient put on hold as the studio faces a new round of financial woes.Warner Bros. pulled out of its unannounced publishing deal "right before last Christmas", Superannuation reported.It's unclear how many staff remain at the developer. MCV Pacific states that the studio itself has not yet shut down.Sad news for the troubled studio – and this was a fascinating next-gen project.Are social games on Facebook really dying out? | GamasutraFirst Electronic Arts said that it is pulling its most popular games from Facebook, raising questions over whether it plans to shut down its Playfish social games subsidiary.Then figures from metrics tracking firm SuperData showed that last month, the social games segment reached a new low of $124 million in total revenue. The social games space is holding back the overall digital space, says the company.But has this week been the final nail in the coffin for the social games space, or has it simply opened up the floor for a host of new developers to try their luck?This sector clearly needs to evolve; there are plenty of companies making a success of it, but the wider possibilities of social gaming are not being explored – possibly not helped by the fact that Facebook is an ever-shifting platform.Ad-blockers, the games press, and why sexy cosplay galleries lead to better reporting | The PA ReportBen Kuchera:People like to say that the games press is just chasing page views with certain stories, but let's be honest: We're chasing page views with every story. This is the reality of the business. It takes so many page views and so many uniques to stay in business, you find yourself going after stories you know will be popular. You may pass up covering games that don't have a large following. You may break one long story into two chunks to stretch it out. You do anything to get people to click.This is an interesting and revealing piece in the financial realities of running a video game site. And it led to...My Proposed- but very likely half baked- Way To Fix Game Journalism/Criticism | davidjaffe.biz... this controversial response from game developer David Jaffe who wants to fix games journalism with crowd funding:Ok so anyway- we get a bunch of names of people doing great work in game journalism and then we- as a game community- vote and whittle it to 5 names.Then we do a yearly Kickstarter to raise 175K.125 K goes to pay 1 of the 5 reporters (pulled randomly from a hat or voted on by the folks who contributed to the Kstart) a yearly salarty. The remaining 50K goes to pay for expenses (games, travel).The reporter posts whatever they want on a blog. There is no editor, no advertising/sales group to worry about, and they can update when they want and write about whatever they want. The only harm for doing a bad job (and I define a bad job as simply filing way too few stories) is looking terrible in the public eye that funded them and wiping out their chances of being included in next year's list.Oh David,everyoneneeds an editor...You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Friday! I am visiting the Video Standards Council today!
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamUS smart sales &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansFirst, Android isn't really growing at all in the USA, at least at the big two operators. ('Other smart' is almost all Android now). All the growth is coming from iPhone.Second, there's near-zero seasonality in Android phone sales. People decide they want a phone and go out and buy whatever's in the shop at the time that looks good. Launches of 'hero' Android phones appear to have no impact at all - they may take share from other Androids, but not from iPhone and they don't increase overall sales.Third, there seems to be a complete disconnect between Android and iPhone purchasing. One can understand iPhone sales per se going up in a launch quarter, but why don't Android sales go down in those quarters? It looks like a new iPhone launch doesn't tempt in Android buyers at all.Click on a few dots and our program will guess your age!"The human motor system changes as we age. Our program will guess your age by analyzing how you click."See how it goes for you. (It was pretty inaccurate when we tried it, but might improve.)Apple's iOS mobile ad metrics dominates Android &gt;&gt; ForbesChuck Jones:MoPub is an ad-serving platform for mobile applications that allows advertisers to bid on ad inventory from thousands of iOS and Android smartphone application providers/suppliers. Over 230 Tier 1 brand advertisers (up from 180 last quarter) and 58 of the top 100 largest advertisers use MoPub. The application providers come from the US, Europe, Asia and Latin America with 45 billion monthly ad impressions (up from 30 billion last quarter) across two dozen verticals.CJ Takeaway #1: As Apple AAPL -1.83% extends its lead in mobile advertising app developers should prioritize new features and applications on iOS over Android. Note that Android tablets account for less than 1% of all mobile ad spend.CJ Takeaway #2: It could become more difficult for other platforms such as Windows and BlackBerry to gain traction with app developers.The iPhone accounts for just over half of all mobile ad spend through MoPub.Samsung Galaxy Note 8.0 review &gt;&gt; AnandtechAnand Lai Shimpi:it's tough to find fault with the Galaxy Note 8.0. It's a good size, has a good display and offers a little more than your standard Android tablet. The inclusion of the S Pen, IR blaster and multi-window features aren't enough to justify the price premium over a Nexus 7 for me personally, but I can see how they would convince others. If you want a one-handed note taking assistant on the go and/or constantly find yourself wishing you could read email and browse the web on your tablet, then the Galaxy Note 8.0 is without equal in the Android or iOS space. The S Pen experience on the Note isn't perfect, it's definitely not as natural as writing on real paper with an actual pen, but at this price point it's surprisingly decent. You can definitely get a better pen experience on Microsoft's Surface Pro, particularly when it comes to drawing, but at more than 2x the cost.Where the Note 8.0 falls short is primarily in its battery life. In general you're looking at anywhere from 10 - 40% less time on a single charge compared to the iPad mini, despite having a slightly larger battery. Power efficiency is just as important as outright performance, and this is something the folks at Samsung's SoC division have yet to master.Nokia faces the feature phone collapse it dodged in 2012 &gt;&gt; BGRTero Kuittinen:In the spring of 2012, Nokia started rolling out a broad new range of Asha feature phones and managed to astonish Wall Street for a couple of quarters. The phones actually sold. Priced at 60-90 euros, they were cheaper than even cheapest Android smartphones and had a sleek, glossy new look. They offered many advanced features like downloadable games and great email support. For a while, Nokia enjoyed an Indian summer — feature phone ASP only declined by -3% during the third quarter in 2012.And now the respite is over.Nokia shipped as many Lumia phones during the first quarter as Wall Street expected but the Asha magic has evaporated and feature phone ASP levels are now tanking hard once again. The average price of Nokia's feature phones tumbled by a drastic -15% year on year, while feature phone shipment volume dove by -21%. This is a truly dangerous combination; even steep price cuts are not helping the moderate sales decline.What this rural school district learned from rolling out 250 Android tablets &gt;&gt; CITEworldOne 7th grade class used their tablets' cameras for a photo scavenger hunt, while a social studies class held a mock parliament and used their tablets to draft legislature and tally votes in real time. A math teacher uses their SMART Board to post whiteboard notes to a Wiki that students can access from their tablets. Another project involved actually building their own apps on the tablet.There are some growing pains to consider when the pilot concludes at school year's end. While younger teachers are entirely on board with the 1:1 project, more established teachers may require some training.Also, since there are so few tablets, students aren't allowed to take them home except by special dispensation and a sign-out sheet. That means that there aren't many problems with students putting inappropriate content on the device or trying to sneak around the web filter, but it also means that students don't have 24/7 access to the next-generation learning tools they use during the school day.The current priority for Guritz and his team is to gather data. The Lenovo tablets were originally chosen because the price was right, and even if they only run Android 3.1 Honeycomb now, they can be upgraded to a more current version of Android down the line.Why LinkedIn dumped HTML5 &amp; went native for its mobile apps &gt;&gt; VentureBeatVentureBeat: So what would it take for mobile web technologies to meet the needs of a company like LinkedIn and with apps as widely used as yours?[Kirin] Prasad [LinkedIn sr director for mobile engineering]: There are a few things that are critically missing. One is tooling support — having a debugger that actually works, performance tools that tell you where the memory is running out.If you look at Android and iOS, there are two very large corporations that are focused on building tools to give a lot of detailed information when things go wrong in production. On the mobile web side, getting those desktop tools to work for mobile devices is really difficult.The second big chunk we are struggling with is operability, runtime diagnostics information. Even now, when we build HTML5, we build it as a client-side app. It's more of a client-server architecture. … The operability of that, giving us information when we're distributed to a large volume of users, there aren't as many great tools to support that, as well.Hard to see how HTML5 will get those tools before native apps, and how native apps won't get improved versions of those tools before HTML5.Apple calls out Google on flawed search methodology, responsibility for Android's infringement &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsGoogle's search results for the purposes of document production in this litigation have been so poor in connection with certain keywords that Apple "wants to work cooperatively with Google to correct these flaws". For the next step Apple proposes that Google be required to provide a "list of search terms and custodians". Apple considers this a "necessary first step [...] to obtain fulsome and meaningful discovery from a key player in the subject matter of this case".Apple believes Google purposely uses suboptimal search terms. For example, Apple claims to know that Google uses a different term internally for what Apple calls "slide to unlock". As a result, searches for "slide to unlock" wouldn't deliver too many documents in which Google employees discussed this patented technology.Google argues that it would be an undue burden to require disclosure of the search terms used, and whether or not a certain burden is acceptable depends on the status of a party. In this context, Google claims that it's merely a third party, and third parties enjoy stronger protection against allegedly-burdensome discovery requests than parties to a dispute.Google is trying to play it both ways: claiming to be a "third party" in the Samsung-Apple litigation but also claiming "common interest privilege" with Samsung to decline to produce documents about Android.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The House of Representatives passed a controversial cybersecurity bill on Thursday in the face of warnings that it undermined privacy and a threat from White House advisers warning they would recommend President Barack Obama veto the legislation.The Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (Cispa) passed by a 288-127 vote, receiving support from 92 Democrats. It will move to the Senate and then to the president's desk.The bill allows private businesses to share customers' personal information with any government entity, including the National Security Agency.Reintroduced in February after failing to pass Congress last year, the bill would afford legal protection to the government and businesses to share data with each other on cyber threats.Its co-author, Mike Rogers, the intelligence committee chairman and a Republican from Michigan, argues that cyberattacks and espionage, particularly from China, where a number of high profile attacks have originated recently, are a number one threat to US economic security."We have a constitutional obligation to defend this nation," said Rogers, on the House floor. "This is the answer to empower cyber information sharing to protect this nation, to allow those companies to protect themselves and move on to economic prosperity. If you want to take a shot across China's bow, this is the answer."Earlier this week, Rogers dismissed opponents of the bill as teenagers in their basements.Dutch Ruppersberger, a Democrat of Maryland, the other co-author of the bill, said on Wednesday during debate on the issue that $400bn worth of American trade secrets are being stolen by US companies every year."If your house is being robbed, you call 911 and the police department comes. That's the same scenario we are looking at here," he said.At one point, Mike McCaul, a Republican from Texas, attempted to draw a comparison between the terror attack in Boston on Monday and cyberterrorism, to draw support for the bill's aim to improve security. "Recent events in Boston demonstrate that we have to come together as Republicans and Democrats," he said, according to Reuters."In the case of Boston, there were real bombs," said McCaul. "In this case, they are digital bombs – and these digital bombs are on their way."Nancy Pelosi, the House Minority leader, expressed the same concerns shared by the White House and civil liberty groups that the bill had failed to strike a "crucial balance between security and liberty"."Im disappointed that we did not address some of the concerns mentioned by the White House about personal information," Pelosi said. "Unfortunately, it offers no policies and did not allow any amendments or real solution that upholds Americans' right to privacy."Last year, global protests by a coalition of internet activists and web companies, including Google and Wikipedia and Twitter, scuppered a similar bill, the Hollywood-backed Stop Online Piracy Act. At the time they warned that future attempts to push through legislation that threatened digital freedoms would be met with a similar response.Holmes Wilson, co-founder of online advocacy group Fight For the Future, said he and other critics would continue to lobby against Cispa. "It would have been so easy to fix this bill and require sites to strip out personal information before passing them to the government." he said.He said amendments had been made in closed sessions and it was "not out of the question" that privacy protections had been left out intentionally at the behest of the intelligence agencies.House intelligence committee leaders addressed some privacy concerns by endorsing an amendment that gave the job of clearing house for the exchange data to the Department of Homeland Security and the Justice Department, rather than a military agency.The bill has attracted support from tech giants including IBM who are keen for liability protection from consumers whose information they have shared, said Wilson. "Right now if the government wants users' information, the company can say no because it opens them up to being sued," he said. "If Cispa passes, there will be no legal restraint."Kurt Opsahl, senior staff attorney for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which had unsuccessfully urged the House to adopt an amendment that would have allowed companies to make a privacy contract with their customers, said it was a "poorly drafted" bill that would present a "gaping exception to bedrock privacy law".The American Civil Liberties Union, one of 34 groups that wrote to lawmakers this week urging them to oppose the bill, said they would work with Congress to ensure the next version of information-sharing legislation resolves the privacy issue and protects personal information online."CISPA is an extreme proposal that allows companies that hold our very sensitive information to share it with any company or government entity they choose, even directly with military agencies like the NSA, without first stripping out personally identifiable information,"said Michelle Richardson, legislative counsel at the ACLU's Washington Legislative Office.A Sunlight Foundation report recently revealedthat interest groups in support of the bill spent $605m from 2011 to the third quarter of 2012 – 140 times as much lobbying Congress as those on the other side of the debate, who spent $4.3m.The bill's opponents, which include digital rights organisations and Internet companies like Reddit and Craiglist, petitioned the White House and submitted more than 300,000 signatures to the House Intelligence Committee. Microsoft and Facebook also oppose the bill, according to Reuters.Several influential industry groups had come out in support of the bill, including the wireless group CTIA, the US Chamber of Commerce and TechNet, which represents large internet and technology companies.
I don't expect you've tried replacing Windows 8 with Windows 7 Pro. Well, it's not that simple! I'm attempting to change the operating system on my wife's new Dell laptop from Windows 8 to 64-bit Windows 7 Pro. I spent three hours last night, found that I had to change the Registry, attempted to do this four times and then gave up! Is there a way to get the laptop to boot up from the CD/DVD drive?BenYou're right: I haven't tried replacing Windows 8 with Windows 7 Pro, so I can only point to the dark areas and say "here be dragons". In fact, I recommend against it, because I don't see the point: you end up with an operating system that does not work as well as Windows 8, or possibly at all. It's simpler to change Windows 8 so the user interface (UI) is more like Windows 7.Either way, I trust you took a full back-up of the original hard drive and created whatever restore media the system recommended before embarking on your adventure. You should never make changes that you can't reverse, and that's your (and every other reader's)responsibility, not mine.Things have changedThere may be problems with downgrading a Windows 8 PC, partly because some have new form factors (tablet/laptop hybrids) that were never designed to run Windows 7. Windows 8 PCs are also different from the previous generation in having a new UEFI (Unified Extensible Firmware Interface) system with Secure Boot and Fast Startup. Further, they use aGPT (GUID Partition Table)to control the disk partitioning, rather than the old MBR (Master Boot Record), which was vulnerable to rootkit malware.A Dell Windows 8 hard drive may have a UEFI System Partition, an OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) Partition, two Recovery Partitions for refreshing and restoring the operating system, and a Primary partition that includes Windows 8 and its applications. The Primary partition is the one you can see.The new system is designed to protect users from malware (Apple and Android tablets and mobile phones are locked down in a similar way), and to enable people to rescue their PCs if something goes wrong.All these things are a great step forward for the 99% of users who buy a PC with an integrated operating system and never want to change it.They make things harder for the 1% who do, but at least Secure Boot can be disabled: you don't have to find a security flaw that can be used to "jailbreak" a PC.But if you can get Windows 7 installed, you may find that you don't have all the drivers required to support the Windows 8 hardware, and it's unlikely that the PC manufacturer will supply them. Some PC manufacturers may also refuse to provide software support if you're not running the original operating system. I would expect them to provide hardware support, though they might insist you re-install the original software first. (If you don't, support personnel can't run through the standard tests and scripts they have for your hardware.)Perhaps you should contact Dell support before going further.Business or consumer version?There are two different cases with downgrades, for consumer and business machines. First, there's the Windows 8 sold to consumers pre-installed as part of a package deal. This does not have downgrade rights, so you will need a full copy of Windows 7 and a product key to install and activate it. Retail copies of Windows 7 are not cheap.You don't have a licence to install a copy of Windows 7 from another PC, even if you have the DVD. If you install it, Microsoft will refuse to activate it.Second, there's the Windows 8 Pro sold to businesses. Microsoft knows that businesses like to keep all their PCs running the same operating system and they are slow to adopt new ones, so the Pro versions of Windows include downgrade rights. This means that Microsoft expects many businesses to replace Windows 8 Pro with 7 Pro.If your wife's Dell is a business machine, it could have Windows 8 Pro installed, so a downgrade to 7 Pro should be relatively simple. Start by disabling Secure Boot in Windows 8's Settings and use the Legacy BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) provided for backwards compatibility.In the BIOS, change the Legacy Boot Order to DVD. I would also disable the Fast Boot system which is hidden away in a System Settings screen under Power Options.You should now be able to reboot and install a full copy of Windows 7 Pro in the usual way, but you will have to enter a valid product key.This key will fail online activation, so you will need to activate it over the phone. To do this, tell Microsoft you are downgrading and tell it the Windows 8 Pro key from your wife's Dell.Home optionsIf it's a consumer version of Windows 8, you may still have a number of options. You can try installing your full copy of Windows 7 alongside Windows 8 in a dual-boot format (seeHow to Dual Boot Windows 8 with Windows 7) or perhaps install it in a "virtual PC". (Windows 8 Pro comes with a powerful virtual PC calledClient Hyper-V, but it's not part of the consumer version, which I have not got.)If you can boot from your Windows 7 DVD, you should be able to install it as a replacement operating system, rather than a downgrade. The 64-bit version of Windows 7 Pro supports GPT partitions, and it should work if you choose Custom (Advanced), select a partition and click Format. (Obviously this will delete the contents of that partition.)If not, you could take the nuclear option, and reformat the whole hard drive.Alternatively, perhaps you could restore your wife's Dell to its Windows 8 factory condition, swap in a new hard drive, and do a clean installation of Windows 7. This avoids the problem of removing Windows 8 without being able to complete the installation or activation of Windows 7. If this results in a non-working PC, you can put the original drive back.Suffice it to say that the downgrade is not a quick option, unless you're an IT department with a volume licensing deal and access to drive images that you can simply copy across. It's a much better idea to buy a business PC that ships with Windows 7 installed and includes a free upgrade to Windows 8.The software optionBut I think there are better options. The best idea is tolearn how to use Windows 8, which doesn't take long. The equivalent of the Windows 7 desktop is still there underneath the Start screen, and it only takes one click to get to it.If your wife doesn't want to do that, you can install software that changes or bypasses the Start screen altogether. Stardock's $4.99Start8looks like a good solution. It lets you boot straight to the Windows 8 desktop and makes it work more like Windows 7.With Start8, you don't lose the speed, security improvements and new features in Windows 8, and you can still run the modern (tablet-style)app included with Windows 8 or downloaded from the Windows Store.Later this year, Microsoft may do something similar to Start8 with its Windows 8.1 update, known as Blue. Indeed, users can expect a stream of improvements as Microsoft sorts out problems and responds to criticisms. Windows 8 is a work in progress, but it's not going away.The future of WindowsWindows 8 represents a huge new undertaking. It provides a compatible interface on everything from mobile phones and touch-based tablets (and perhaps a new Xbox games console) through laptops and desktops to mainframe class servers. It includes new cloud services via a Microsoft identity (so any Windows 8 machine becomes your Windows 8 machine when you log in), powerful search and sharing, a shiny new platform architecture for programmers (Windows Runtime or WinRT), and the new Windows Store, among other things. It's part of a significant advance into a future where Microsoft believes most devices will be mobile, touch-oriented and always connected. Those are all areas where Windows 7 falls short.In addition, Windows 8 brings in amodern design languagethat puts "content before chrome". It's already visible in Windows 8 and Microsoft Office, in the newOutlook.comemail service that has replaced Hotmail, and in the free Microsoft Office programs in SkyDrive. Similar user interfaces are also being adopted by independent websites under the "flat UI" slogan: see, for example,What is flat design?.Microsoft still has a lot of work to do, but it has time. The bulk of its sales and profits come from business versions of Windows and Windows applications on PCs and servers, and Microsoft will support businesses using Windows 7 until at least2020.My main machines are still running Windows 7 as well. But in 2020, perhaps most of us will be on Windows 10, and looking back, we'll wonder what all the fuss was about.
A bit of happy news for once - and from Barnsley, to boot.Facebook, for all its foibles, serves a certain public duty: enabling friends to keep in touch overseas and making it easy for the lovelorn to stalk their exes. But how often can Mark Zuckerberg boast that his social networking site reunites teenage boys with their birds? Of prey, that is (you are reading the Guardian, remember).But that's exactly what happened in Barnsley recently, when 17-year-old James Dickinson lost his beloved lanner falcon during a flying display over South Yorkshire.The young female falcon, named Nekala, was his pride and joy and when she didn't come back for four days he thought she was gone forever. Memories of the Ken Loach classic will have added to his anguish: Kes, you will remember, ends up in a dustbin after getting into the hands of Billy's horrible half-brother.Happily in this case, life did not echo fiction. As luck would have it, the young bird took off towards the Yorkshire Wolds and landed just a few miles from the home of wildlife artist Robert E Fuller.The wildlife artist's extensive knowledge of birds of prey meant that he was able to identify the falcon immediately and advertise its loss on hisFacebook page, where he has a large following of bird lovers."A neighbouring farmer spotted her and noticed that she was ringed, so rang me up," said the artist, whose home and gallery is based in Thixendale, North Yorkshire."I drove out and picked her up, then posted a picture of her with an appeal on Facebook. By the following morning I'd found her owner!""Amazing what social media can do. I'm just so pleased that they are reunited, James was so happy to have her back!"Nakela had travelled a good 70 miles. Alas, she had chewed the aerial off the transmitter that was attached to her leg when she flew off, so James could not track her.James, who works at a falconry centre in Oxenhope, West Yorkshire, had been showing the lanner falcon when she did not return from a display flight.Chris Johnson, of SMJ Falconry, said they had driven for miles and walked the surrounding area calling for the bird, but had almost given up hope of finding her.James' mother Bev Dickinson said: "My son is overjoyed at getting Nekala back. At 17 he tried hard not to shed a tear, but we are so grateful and thankful that she seems OK."
Free kick. Penalty. In the real game these words are likely to be greeted with expectant joy from supporters and players on the right side of the decision. In the Fifa series, though, they often invoke indifference or even dread. That's because, for many, scoring from a set-piece in Fifa is a sort of halcyon moment, as rare, magical and incomprehensible as falling in love at first sight, or viewing a meteor shower. My free kick attempts will tend to go anywhere – row Z, out for a throw in, into another game – rather than the goal. Most of the time, I just opt for a short pass. And penalties? The controls seemed so sensitive I always ended up tapping most of mine limply down the middle, like Gareth Southgate at Euro 96 – over and over again.Last year, however, the Fifa development team at EA Sports finally realised something had to be done, so they introduced Skill Games, a selection of mini-challenges designed to teach you how to use various in-game moves and systems. The shooting and crossing ones were useful, but the set-piece tutorials were a bloody revelation, finally letting average gamers into an arcane world of penalty-taking confidence. Now, at least 68% of my kicks go into one of the corners of the net, rather than into the fuzzy face of a simply animated spectator. And it's great because it doesn't feel like a tutorial mode: in each challenge you can continually improve on your performance so it's like a series of mini-games rather than going to football school and being told you're an idiot.It's little wonder then that this new feature has been a success. According to EA, 2.29bn skill games have been played since the launch of Fifa 13 last autumn. And so for Fifa 14, the mode is to be extended – familiar challenges are going to be tweaked, and new tasks are being added. During a recent demo session, producer Nick Channon showed off a selection of the newcomers. One is a distance shooting exercise with a line of balls just outside the 18-yard area – the player has to run along and belt all of these into the goal.More interesting though are the team mate exercises. In one, your player has to run the length of the pitch making one-two passes with other players en route, before finally shooting. Better still, there's a little group task, where seven players in a small box must one-touch pass the ball between them for as long as possible as defenders run about trying to intercept. This one will be familiar to anyone who's actually played for a team, and brings more of a sense of actual football practise to the mode.Elsewhere, the studio is making some key changes to the Career Mode, which lets you compete as a manager or player over a number of seasons. The user interface is being completely overhauled to make it easier to navigate and more logical – the squad screen, for example, has a nice graphic of your first eleven, with each icon showing a range of stats so you get a visual representation rather than having to drill down into multiple screens. From the brief glimpse I got, there's a slight look of Windows 8 about it all – it has that clean, box-based feel. Apparently, email notifications can also be tailored so you're not constantly interrupted by irrelevant spam as you advance though the season - now, only really important messages will be mandatory reads.Fifa 14: Career Mode global scouting reportFifa 14 is also adding a new global scouting network, which will allow managers to set up searches for fresh talent based on player traits and tendencies rather than stats.  For Channon, this is about creating a much more authentic system. "A manager doesn't go in saying I want a 75 rated player," he says. "Instead, with the new scouting system you say, I want a pacy winger, I want a good holding midfielder, I want a big striker I can play the ball up to. You can then go and scout those players. Clearly if you're after a Messi or an Ibrahimovic, you're not going to have to scout them, but what about a longer term player who's cheaper but has the potential to grow? Instead of searching all the ratings, you can think about the types of players you want and scout based on that."So in Fifa 14, you get a series of putdown menus providing specific wish lists to your scout. You can define that you'd like, say, a tall centre back from South America with good dribbling skills; your scout then packs his sun tan lotion and he's off. Apparently, the longer you leave him out there, the more accurate his report becomes, so there's a long term challenge here, stretching out the transfer system so that it takes in the whole season. "We have a dedicated database team working on all this, which is now quite big thanks to the Match Day feature, says Channon. "They have processes in place for managing player stats and traits. But the game still has to be fun. We have to maintain the entertainment factor."Talking about all the changes, Channon says that part of the challenge is learning from feedback, but not reacting immediately. "We look at what the team thinks, what we've learned, things we couldn't get to - then as soon as the demo hits, we get customer feedback. And then when the game is released we get a massive amount more. But we can't just react to the first couple of days. Look at tactical defending: when we first released the demo, the reaction was 'oh my goodness, this is really different', but actually that quickly went away because everyone got used to it. We know that when we make big changes like first touch control, people initially react negatively, but often they'll say, this makes sense, I can't go back."So. just a few extra snippets from Fifa 14 there, and EA will no doubt be revealing more about multiplayer aspects as we head into summer. And while the release date is likely to be the end of September, the big question is over what formats the game will appear on. At the start of our press demo last week, EA made it clear that they wold only be discussing the PS3, Xbox and PC versions of the game – which of course, pretty much confirmed that next-gen versions will be announced. It's likely we'll get Fifa 14 for current platforms in September, then updated special editions for the new PlayStation and Xbox platforms later.One thing's for sure, we can expect ever closer integration with the real sport and an increasingly pervasive feel to the series. Last year's Match Day feature ripped information and stories from the actual season and put them into the commentary and player form stats. Meanwhile, the EA Sports Football Club smartphone app also allowed Ultimate Team fans to play around with their squads while on the move. EA Sports is keen on expanding these elements – it wants us to be constantly in touch with the game; on phones, tablets and consoles, wherever we are, checking team info, tweaking formations, comparing real-world news to in-game seasons. Of course, some people hate all of this, but it's increasingly where big gaming franchises are going – and it will get much more interesting with the next-gen machines. EA just doesn't want to talk about it. Yet.• You can read our main preview of Fifa 14here.
Twitter has launched what it described as a 21st century version of the mixtape, with a new app that recommends tracks to music fans based on the artists they follow.Fans of artists such as One Direction or Adele will be able to listen to their latest hits from within the social nework using the #Music app.A #NowPlaying screen will show Twitter users all the songs being tweeted by the people they follow, famous or not, and let them listen along.The service, available onthe #Music siteand as an app for the Apple iPhone or iPad, launched on Thursday in the US, Canada, the UK, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand."Twitter and music go great together. People share and discover new songs and albums every day," said Twitter's Stephen Philips in a blog poston the company's official website."Many of the most-followed accounts on Twitter are musicians, and half of all users follow at least one musician. This is why artists turn to Twitter first to connect with their fans — and why we wanted to find a way to surface songs people are tweeting about."Twitter has linked up with three music companies for the launch: the downloads store Apple iTunes and streaming services Spotify and Rdio.The app works by detecting the most popular tracks from the people you follow, while also highlighting emerging artists. Apple iTunes will only play previews of songs as default, but premium subscribers of Spotify and Rdio can listen to full tracks.The move is part of an attempt to reposition Twitter as an entertainment hub online, bringing it closer to the multimedia social network that Facebook has become over the past two years.The app had a lukewarm reception from some music analysts, who questioned whether it was enough to keep users returning to the site instead of Facebook."My question is where is the money for Twitter? For the recorded music industry, the recommendations thing is old hat because that's the function of charts and airplay, so  there's not really any incremental value there," said Alice Enders, the music expert at Enders Analysis."And then, do I care about what Sally Bercow is listening to? If I follow an opinion maker, not an artist, I might really prefer to stick to their opinions than their dodgy musical tastes."•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@guardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
My mother popped up on Facebook a few months ago as a "suggested friend". Her smile came up on the side of my screen, and I couldn't help but let my mouse gravitate to her name and linger over it.With most people, if their mothers are already on Facebook then they're already "friends". But I became estranged from my parents half a decade ago, and hadn't exchanged words with my mother for over four years.At a time when there's so much discussion about a "right to be forgotten" and methods to delete your digital life, I've done a lot to digitally forget my parents, and delete them from my digital life. I'd rejected invitations to connect from their work colleagues and friends so that snippets of their life wouldn't flash incidentally into mine and tempt me to linger.Yet within seconds of my mother's profile flashing up on the screen, I found myself wading through my parents' most recent social occasions. It was exactly as I feared: they appeared absolutely fine. Dad was wallpapering in socks and sandals in a house in Coffs Bay, smiling. Mum had commented underneath: "my hero wallpapering". Next they were sat on a grassy hill, holding up glasses of white wine, beaming in the sun. That particular album was labelled London 2012. Image by image, I saw them posing outside the monuments in our capital and my current home.I know – you're expecting the film script trajectory: the images lead me to end the estrangement, the family is reconciled, and in a faraway office Mark Zuckerberg smiles and rings a bell as another angel gets its wings.Sorry. Not so. Instead, my reaction was to think: how could they just turn up and smile in a city where they knew that their daughter is living, breathing and working? I slammed my computer shut. I knew too much.It was the resolute happiness that was shocking, and my mum's profile picture continued to nag me all week. Then it hit me: if she ever saw my profile then I'd be smiling back. My page is a savvy edit of my best happenings – picnics, festivals, and holidays in Barcelona. There are no posts about the sleepless nights and awkward moments where I struggle to explain to people why I don't "have a family". I didn't post a screenshot of the letters I sent them, trying to discuss our feud rationally and asking the questions that were natural to ask.Perhaps I've been quietly coerced into thinking that positivity is the currency in which our online profiles trade, and so I instinctively stay away from the sombre. This illustrates the dichotomy inherent to social networking: the digital world allows for "togetherness" in which we "share our lives" with people around the world - yet conversely it can distance us from friends' fully dimensional experiences of life.This permanent state of online happiness, as projected by a profile, can be mentally destabilising for those with discordant relationships. Dr Joshua Coleman, a psychologist based in San Francisco who is a specialist in estrangement, and author of When Parents Hurt, observes: "We have never in our history been as accessible to our family and friends. Social media, on the one hand, allows us to connect quickly to those we love. On the other, it allows those that we love - oronceloved – enormous power to reach us and hurt us from almost anywhere in the world."He explains one easy way of doing that: "announcing critical events such as weddings, while not letting the family member know directly, and tormenting the person in isolation by posting photographs of events where they were absent."It seems this issue is amplified by the prolific use of images. For me, the photographs I gazed at alluded to my parents' satisfaction in isolation, yet at the same time allowed me a vicarious experience of that happiness. For a few minutes I was reallywiththem in London, experiencing their wonder and excitement – only to remember soon after that I wasn't really welcome, not with my questions.This could be an issue with privacy, as my mother's photographs were all accessible without our being online friends. The question remains: should social networking sites step up and offer to help those who don't wish to be reminded of their estrangement? Facebook claims to have the advantage of being able to block users, whereas you wouldn't be able to block a person if you encountered them on the street.Yet privacy settings on sites such as Facebook have long been documented as difficult to manoeuvre. You could argue that that's only really an issue for older users who might not be as web-savvy. But there was no way I could have prevented my mum from popping up as a "suggested friend" until it happened. She was linked to me through others. I had her old email stored in an old account. It was, in a sense, inevitable.Then again, my experience is by no means definitive. Such gaps in privacy can allow others the glimpse of a life they may actually yearn to know about. In cases where an adult child becomes estranged, parents may see new grandchildren through profile pictures, keep tabs with their child's musings via Twitter, and celebrate job success through LinkedIn.Yet estranged individuals can find that the primary advantage of social networking sites is that they offer a less intimidating route to reconciliation. Kevin Allan [not his real name] used them to overcome the anxiety of getting back in touch with his estranged family. He told me: "the action of adding someone [on a social network] isn't like calling [on the phone] or turning up on a doorstep. It's less confrontational." As a result of adding his father as a Facebook friend, Kevin was able to see parts of his life and they decided to meet.For some, being a Facebook friend is enough to qualify as being in touch with their family, defying the stigma that surrounds estrangement. For many, the complexities of the relationship are what lead to the estrangement in the first place. Coleman says: "It's useful to remember the positive aspects to a person when thinking about reconciling with a family member. This will give us a better chance of seeing the process through. Social media may give an easy entry into a conversation by providing real-time achievements, events and points of shared interest." If social media can facilitate such positivity, albeit about career or personal life, it could be seen as a useful tool in developing the mindset needed for the reconciliation process itself.Estrangement is a loss, and a unique loss. For the five years before my mother was a suggested friend, I knew my parents were in the world somewhere. But only through social media did I find out exactly where. I asked Coleman if it is ever really possible to be estranged from your family when online culture is so prevalent. His answer seems straightforward: "Yes. But you need to stay off your computer."It's a tall order. I work in a world that demands an online presence, and there are many like me who can't work without those tools. I can't delete my digital life. It seems my only option is to wait anxiously for another reminder of my parents' denial and my difficult childhood to rap loudly at my digital door, wrapped in a smiling suggestion that we hook up. Except the computer that has mediated the meeting has no concept of life or its complications - only tables in a database that have found a match.Becca Bland worked on the BBC Radio 4 series The Digital Human. For more about estrangement in the digital age visit the webpage for 'The Digital Human'
The representation of women in video games has become a hot topic over the last year, fed by controversies over Lara Croft, the Tropes vs Women Kickstarter and many other flashpoints. While current industry statistics show that female players now make up half the audience for games, there are still very few releases with women in lead roles. Furthermore, women are very poorly represented in games development, providing less then 10% of the creative workforce in the US and Europe.At the Game Developers' Conference in San Francisco last month, the whole issue of representation, including gender, LGBT and race, became a key focus. Several sessions and "developer rants" dealt with the limited depiction of characters outside of the white male demographic, leading to a series of major Twitter storms and lots of debate via blogs and game sites.So does the industry have a problem with representation, both in games and in the development workplace? To discuss this, Guardian games correspondent Keith Stuart recently spoke to Jo Twist, chief executive of trade bodyUKIE; game developerMitu Khandaker; and games writer and producer,Cara Ellison. The results can be heard in this podcast.During the debate, we also mentioned lots of interesting games, designers and academics, and wanted to provide links to some of those:Anna Anthropy:game designer, responsible for a series of titles exploring gender and sexuality, including Dys4ia. Here'sa transcription of the poem, Romero's Wives, that she read at GDC.Tom Abernathy:A narrative designer at Microsoft Studios. He gave a talk at GDC about how increasing diversity in games would be good for business. "Women are not a small special market on the fringe of the core," he says at one point. "Women are the new core." More infohere.Terry CavanaghandPorpentine:game designers who spoke at GDC about free indie games. There's coverage of their sessionhere.Daniel Cook:game designer atSpry Fox. He wrote about the macho culture at Microsofthere.Anna Marsh:game designer atLady Shotgun. Spoke at GDC about the damaging culture of 'crunch' in games development. There's a transcription of her sessionhere.Here is the video clip of Toby Gard talking about player reactions to Lara Croft. It's from the Critical Path interview archive.Here is the sequence in the Channel 4 comedy series Spaced, where Simon Pegg's character drowns Lara Croft.The Observer has also recently featured an article on representation in games, which ran after we recorded this discussion. You can find ithere.
Nokia appears to be edging back into the smartphone race, after reporting a 27% rise in sales of the Lumia touch screen handsets on which chief executive Stephen Elop has staked the future of the company.Despite competition from the latest Apple phone, Lumia shipments reached 5.6m in the first quarter of this year, and Nokia is forecasting they will rise as much again in the June quarter, reaching over 7m.This would leave Finnish manufacturer with the beginnings of a sustainable smartphone business, although still some way behind the 37m iPhones analysts estimate Apple has sold this year and Samsung's 62m shipments.But Nokia's forecast was greeted with scepticism by some analysts. "We struggle to understand how this number is possible without either the beginning of consumer traction, or a massive channel inventory stuffing," said Pierre Ferragu, at Bernstein Research.The boost to Lumia devices, which run on Microsoft's Windows Phone software, was not enough to prevent Nokia's overall revenues crashing 27% from the previous quarter after sales of basic phones fell faster than expected. Consumers are opting for fully fledged internet phones, denting demand for the traditionally large volume of basic phones made by Nokia. The company sold 62m handsets in the quarter, well below the 73m units predicted by Wall Street, which had forecast revenues of €6.5bn. Nokia achieved just €5.85bn."We remain focused on moving through our transition, which includes continuing to improve our product competitiveness, accelerate the way we operate and manage our costs effectively," Elop said.Sales of its Asha full touch smartphones, aimed at shoppers in developing economies, fell from 9.3m before Christmas to 5m.The company swung into an operating loss of €150m, down from a profit €439m in the Christmas quarter, and both revenues and profits declined at all three of its main divisions. Compared to the Christmas quarter, revenues at its handset arm were down 25%, its digital mapping division revenues fell 22%, and Nokia Siemens Networks, which employs the majority of the company's staff and is a major cash generator, lost 30% of its income and sale profits fall from €252m to €3m.However the company's cash reserves, severely depleted last year as Nokia funded its turnaround strategy, increased by €120m to €4.5bn, thanks to profits from Nokia Siemens Networks and the regular quarterly payment of $250m from Microsoft to help market the Windows Phone software used in Lumia handsets.
Peter Molyneux didn't make his name in the games industry by shying away from ambitious, risky projects, from god games Populous and Powermonger through Black &amp; White, the Fable games and prototype Kinect title Project Milo.2012 saw him exploring new frontiers through indie studio22cans. First with a freemium massively-multiplayer tile-chipping game for iOS and Android calledCuriosity – What's Inside the Cube, and then byraising £527k on Kickstarterto make Project Godus, a "reinvention of Populous" for Mac, PC and mobile devices.What has Molyneux learned from the last 12 months? In a keynote session at theF2P Summit conferencein London, he explained, starting with the development problem that he thinks free-to-play games are solving."In a way, we've always had this problem when we've made computer games," he said, describing the experience of spending 2-3 years making a Fable game with a team of 100-150 people, releasing it on a Friday, and then hearing players boasting about having completed it by the Saturday."There was the realisation that in certain circumstances it [free-to-play] can stretch that gameplay time out so that people don't obsessively play for six or more hours," he said. "It does pull out that time, and it requires people to wait and see what comes up."Molyneux also said free-to-play solves another specific problem for traditional games developers – "this terrible phrase from marketing: 'Can we have a demo of the game?'" that often came at the crunch point for development."That's another thing that free-to-play did. The game itself is the demo, and the demo is the game," said Molyneux."I've been wanting something like free-to-play as a designer for years and years, and now it's here I'm absolutely fascinated by it."He admitted that there are plenty of design challenges, including keeping the quality level high for a game where new content is being regularly made available for its players."I have to bully myself to think in a very different way. It's less about bombarding the player with feature after feature. It's more about stretching those features out," said Molyneux, who talked enthusiastically about the power of anticipation, and the fact that "if you stretch it perfectly, people will do unbelievable things to achieve a certain goal."Curiosity lessonsCuriosity is the "hyper-example" of that, as millions of players downloaded it to chip away at surfaces of a giant cube with the ultimate aim of revealing what lay at its centre. It was 22cans' first game after the studio was founded in early 2012."I thought that free-to-play – this idea of giving people an experience that is free and which they can play around with was something we needed to play around with," he said."I tried to think of the simplest thing for our team to get its teeth into… And I thought in my naive mind that this would be something the world would take a look at, and that would be the end of it."Curiosity really was an experiment, then. Just an experiment that was downloaded by millions within its first few days on the app stores, which in turn saw 22cans struggling to scale its back-end infrastructure to cope."It was insanely successful, and in that success was our biggest challenge," said Molyneux. "Within a few days, the response times had gone down to minutes rather than fractions of a second. We had to panic and solve that."One feature that never made it into Curiosity was plans to charge $77k for an in-app purchase of a "Diamond Chisel" tool to vastly speed up the chipping process. Why not?"It was a challenge to get the platform-holders like Apple and Android to understand what we were really trying to experiment with," said Molyneux."With the Diamond Chisel, our ambition was to charge an impossibly-high amount – so high that no one in the world would buy it. It was more the psychology of knowing that this hugely valuable thing was there… But when we submitted the app to platform holders like the App Store, they turned around and said 'Oh my goodness, you can't charge that amount!'"22cans did manage to sell lower-priced virtual items in Curiosity: a draw mode for players with artistic intentions, access to more statistics for others, and a fun "Golden Badger" character for younger players.Molyneux didn't give revenue figures – other than saying that the Android version of Curiosity generates a quarter of the revenues of the iOS version – but said the 69p stats purchase was "by far and away the most successful" of the three.Curiosity – What's Inside the Cube?F2P v consoleThe experience has left Molyneux more enthusiastic about free-to-play gaming than ever, it's fair to say. He had some thoughts on how these games differ from traditional console titles too."If you think of console games as the equivalent of films – you go to the cinema, you watch it, consume it, you're done with it – that's what I think console games are like," he said."I think free-to-play games are more like TV series. You watch a TV series for half an hour or 40 minutes, wait for a period of time then watch another one. That's more like what free-to-play is."Molyneux noted that just as TV shows are crafted around that mode of consumption – end-of-episode cliffhangers being one example – the best free-to-play games must be structured around the habits of their players.There's a downside, though. Molyneux criticised (while not naming) "some bad examples of people trying to squeeze more money out of consumers" with free-to-play titles, or by slapping in-app purchases into games not originally designed for that purpose."You can't introduce free-to-play mechanics to a title six months after it's released," he said. "It's got to be part of the design. It can't just be crammed in there later on."Curiosity's players still haven't reached the centre of the cube, although Molyneux said the game is "moving into the final phase" very soon, after which he'll be able to judge its success as a game and as a business model."The race to the centre. And then when that's all finished and we reveal what's in the middle – or hopefully reveal what's in the middle – then we'll truly measure its success," he said.Godus ambitions22cans is already hard at work on its next game, Godus, following that successful Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign.The project was partly born out of Molyneux's fascination with Kickstarter, and his desire to revive the genre – god-games – that made his original studio Bullfrog Productions famous."I feel that the god-game genre embodies everything that free-to-play is," he said. "The god game genre was almost invented for free-to-play 25 years ago. It works so beautifully for what free-to-play represents."Godus will be free-to-play, and while Molyneux admitted this brings challenges on PC and Mac where the model is less popular, in characteristic style he talked up the impact freemium mechanics will have on the game."It is already a fantastic, amazing and incredible game, and free-to-play makes it even more fantastic, amazing and incredible," he said, before sharing some gameplay details about Godus' iOS and Android incarnation.It will be based around a single-player environment called "Homeworld", where players sculpt the landscape with their fingers, and oversee their growing population of virtual inhabitants.The bigger the population, the more godly powers are unlocked. And at any point, some of those people can be taken out of Homeworld to battle in a "very simple multiplayer game", where players can win more people, and thus unlock more powers.Concept artwork for GodusExcavation plansThere's more to the gameplay though. "There's definitely some Dungeon Keeper, it's about excavating," said Molyneux, referring to another well-loved Bullfrog game."What we realised was – and this is all to do with free-to-play – that there is this terrible moment that consumers get to when they say 'Why am I doing this? Why am I planting crops? Why am I building buildings? Why am I sculpting the land?' And that's the point where you have to subtly show people there's a reason why."Hence excavating in Godus, which Molyneux explained in an example that wouldn't look out of place in the feed of (affectionate) parodic Twitter accountPeter Molydeux."You're sculpting, and you spot a bit of terrain that looks a bit different," he said. "You realise there's a nose protruding from the land, so you keep on sculpting and pushing the land around, and there's this face. And it's a huge massive statue of you buried in this hill!"The thinking here: "That gives you a reason to carry on sculpting. It's not just about serving the needs of your little people. It's about discovering things, and excavating."F2P attitudesMolyneux also talked about how free-to-play games studios are seen within the games industry and outside it, including the investors who got excited at the rise of Zynga, then spooked when its share price dropped post-IPO.He said that the more recent success of Finnish developer Supercell – currently making $2.4m a day from its Clash of Clans and Hay Day games on iOS alone – has reawakened investor interest."If you're working in free-to-play, VCs and investors are fascinated by it," said Molyneux. He went on to talk about players, and the perceived snobbery towards free-to-play games from "core" gamers who see console and/or PC gaming as having more depth."The core gamers have yet to see a game in my opinion that really justifies their attention," said Molyneux, referring to his earlier film/TV analogy."At the moment as far as they're concerned, they're watching Skyfall, and we're asking them to go to free-to-play, which is like watching In The Night Garden. There's got to be a middle ground."It's this middle-ground that 22cans is targeting with Godus, which Molyneux hopes will appeal to both kinds of gamers.Regulation worriesMolyneux was also asked about attitudes within the games industry towards free-to-play, and said that developers would "be very foolhardy to turn your nose up" at the model. However, he warned that snobbery exists on both sides of the debate."People like [Zynga CEO] Mark Pincus rubbed a lot of the industry up the wrong way because he said console games are dead," said Molyneux. "We can't have snobbishness on either of those [sides]."Regulators are getting interested in free-to-play games at the moment, with the UK's Office of Fair Trading launching an investigation into how these games and their in-app purchases are marketed to children, and whether some developers are breaking existing laws in the process."If I was a betting man I'd think the platform providers will start trying to answer that question fairly soon," said Molyneux, referring to Apple and Google."You can't have people racking up bills of hundreds or thousands of pounds without them knowing what they're doing," he continued, while warning that among adults "some people love spending money, and we shouldn't stop that".Molyneux also warned of the risks for the games industry of regulations varying around the world, and the danger (for developers) that publicity around irresponsible free-to-play games has a knock-on effect for the responsible ones."We've got to be careful that the OFT doesn't create a regime where us developers don't want to develop for the UK, so you have to be very careful," he said."We also have to be careful that we don't fall into the trap of making our games the equivalent of gambling, where parents will say 'my kid must never play one of these games'."Kickstarter lessonsMolyneux finished off by talking about lessons learned from the Godus Kickstarter campaign, which he described as a "rollercoaster ride" while noting that many crowdfunding campaigns have a similar pace."You start high, you have a lot of enthusiasts coming in – gamers who've maybe played Populous and want to play it again in our case – and then after three days you've got all those people, and it slumps down," he said.The middle of the campaign thus becomes "this terrible doldrum" where the pledge total is crawling rather than shooting upwards, and fears mount that it will never hit its target."Then suddenly for seemingly no reason at all, in the last few days it picks up again," said Molyneux, although he proceeded to give a reason."95% of people pledging at the end of the Kickstarter campaign were serial pledgers. They were people who have pledged on more than 10 projects, and there were a couple of examples of people who have pledged over the last year to over 500 projects!"Hence his advice to developers to always ask for less money than they actually need when crowdfunding: "If you need £100k, ask for £50k," he said."When you reach that £50k, that will trigger all those serial pledgers who think 'this is worth backing', and then you can have all the stretch pledges that will take you to £100k."He also said if he was to run a Kickstarter campaign again, he wouldn't have any pledges over £100 in value."The amount of griefing that goes on for the higher value pledges just isn't worth the amount of money it brings in," he said. "The vast majority of your money from Kickstarter comes from tiers lower than £100."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Nintendo Direct: EarthBound, Pikmin 3, A Link to the Past | VG247Nintendo has announced a range of new 3DS titles including a sequel to the legendary Zelda title, Link to the Past, originally released on the Super Nintendo console.During the NA Nintendo Direct session, a new 3DS game in The Legend of Zelda series was announced. It contains and all new adventure which takes place in the world of A Link to the Past, and allows Link to become a drawing and move along walls. A 3D video of the new game is now available to download in the Nintendo eShop. The game will launch this holiday season.Yoshi's Island, the third installment in franchise is making its way to 3DS, where Yoshi and Baby Mario are back with their typical movements along with new actions. More details about the game, as well as launch timing, will be announced in the future.Mario &amp; Donkey Kong: Minis on the Move, the eShop exclusive, will contain over 180 stages in four different modes. Players can also create their own stages and share them with others to play around the world. It launches on May 9 in both regions.Game &amp; Wario Release Date Announced | IGNAnd while we're on Nintendo, this is the Wii U release news I've been waiting for:During its Nintendo Direct presentation this morning, Nintendo revealed that Game &amp; Wario will hit the Wii U eShop and retail stores on June 23rd.Game &amp; Wario was released in Japan last month and was originally due in the Wii U's launch window. Nintendo revealed in January that the title would be released in the first half of 2013.Played this at E3 and really enjoyed its different take on asymmetrical multiplayer.Valve refunds BioShock Infinite buyer over baptism objection | MCVBen Parfitt:A player who objected to his forced participation in a baptism in an early scene in BioShock Infinite has been refunded by Valve.Players are made to undergo the ceremony to gain access to the game's main setting Colombia. All that is required is the pressing of a button. However, Christian gamer Breen Malmberg was so uncomfortable with the scene that he felt unable to play on.As a result Malmberg contacted Valve directly to request a refund – a request he says was honoured.But as Ben rightly asks – all the killing is fine, yeah?Analyst: US sales trends will remain negative until GTAV | GameSpot.comThe NPD Group will report United States industry sales tomorrow and the results will not be pretty, nor will they turn around anytime soon. That's the opinion of Sterne Agee analyst Arvind Bhatia, who told investors today that March sales are expected to be down 10-15 percent.Negative trends will continue until the release of Grand Theft Auto V in September followed by the launch of Microsoft and Sony next-generation platforms either in October or November, he argued.Help us, Rockstar, you're our only hope!Code Britannia: The Pickford Brothers | EurogamerGreat little biography of the fabulous coding brothers:For John, games have been a lifelong calling, and he was coding before he even owned a computer. "Me and my friends used to go into Stockport town centre and go to the library," he explains. "They had a magazine called Practical Computing, one of those big thick ones, and it had listings. We used to write them down by hand, then we'd go into WHSmith and type them in. We'd never finish, because we didn't know what we were doing and they shut at five."Starseed Pilgrim | TIGSourceDerek Yu:IGF 2013 Excellence in Design nominee Starseed Pilgrim was released on Steam today (Steam releases were offered to all the nominees this year). This unassuming and enigmatic puzzle platformer has become a hit with a number of indie game developers, including Bennett Foddy (QWOP) and Braid creator Jonathan Blow, who called it his game of the year for 2012. Since so much of the enjoyment from Starseed comes from figuring out how the game works, it's hard to describe even the basic goals without spoiling it. If that sounds fun to you in and of itself, you should probably give it a go.Woman Buys Old Nintendo Game For $7.99. Turns Out It's Worth $15,000 | KotakuWoman buys an old SNES game in a charity shop in North Caroline for $7.99. It turns out to be worth around $15,000:Stadium Events, one of the first exergaming titles, was only released in a test market in the northern United States in 1987. The next year, Nintendo bought the North American rights to its "Family Fun Fitness" mat, which then became the more well known Power Pad. Anything under the Family Fun Fitness brand was supposed to have been destroyed.I'd settle for a mint copy of Landstalkers on Mega Drive. Or Radiant Silvergun, of course. How about you? What's the rare game that you desperately want in your collection?You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
It's Thursday. I didn't play any games last night : (
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team"Porn identification officer" in China gets paid to watch porn &gt;&gt; Daily DotWhat is porn? You may believe you hold some expertise in the matter, but are you a professional? Can you separate the phony porn from pure stuff? If so, whip out that résumé. The Chinese need you.Actually, there's are similar jobs in the UK, at the Internet Watch Foundation. Except it's more than porn. It's gruelling, by all accounts.Samsung Galaxy S4 European launch to include Need for Speed giveaway, new Hub apps &gt;&gt; Android CentralSamsung has partnered with multiple companies to bring new content to the Samsung Hub for the upcoming Galaxy S4 launch in Europe, scheduled for April 27. EA is providing a version of Need for Speed Most Wanted that not only has been optimized for this particular phone, but includes "in-game Samsung branding." The first 100,000 European customers will be able to download the game for free through the Samsung Hub - everyone else, including Galaxy Note 2 owners, can still purchase a copy.Michelin will be offering their real-time traffic app 'Traffic' and eatery locator and reviewer 'Restaurant' apps at launch, with with tourist attraction app 'Travel' following this summer. The children's apps 'Nighty Night' and 'Little Fox Music Box' by Goodbeans will be Samsung Hub exclusives. Random House Mondadori is bringing 3,400 Spanish language books, which include international best-selling authors, to the Hub as well.First real-world usage figures suggest Chromebooks are struggling &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott:To put things in perspective, as of April 2013 all Chromebooks combined have managed to achieve 7/10 of 1% of the usage of Windows 8 PCs worldwide.Put another way, that figure suggests that in nearly two years on the market, all of those Chromebooks have achieved a smaller percentage of usage than Windows RT earned as of January 2013, after only three months on the market. Windows RT has been widely considered a disappointment, with OEMs cutting prices for RT-powered devices.In both categories, those tiny results suggest a fair amount of pain for the OEMs that jumped in early. Google's gone all-in for its cloud-based OS, and Microsoft is similarly gung-ho about the future of its Windows RT operating system. But it might be another couple of years before the general buying public is really ready for either one.But one Chromebook was the top seller on Amazon's PC category! Could it be that that isn't a reliable metric for broader sales? (Windows RT has done about 1.5m sales in total, according to estimates.)Pirate Bay founder Gottfrid Svartholm Warg charged with hacking, fraud &gt;&gt; Digital SpyPirate Bay co-founder Gottfrid Svartholm Warg has been formally charged with fraud and hacking offences.The controversial internet figure is accused of carrying out cyber attacks on several Swedish agencies and attempting to illegally withdraw money for an online bank, The Local reports.The fun goes on.Read this from 2009. (Thanks @IvanIvanovich for the link.)Ad-blockers, the games press, and why sexy cosplay galleries lead to better reporting &gt;&gt; Penny ArcadeBen Kuchera lays it on the line:Ready for irony? The better your audience is - the more mature, intelligent, and plugged in - the more likely they are to run an ad-blocking program of some kind. People who read parenting blogs don't often block ads, and are probably barely aware it's a thing they can do. If you're a 25 year old guy who has a job in IT, makes a good living, and reads a ton of blogs, odds are you're blocking ads. I love you folks, and you're my people, but from a business perspective, you're a really crummy market to go after.If you don't block ads, but you visit that site with a 50% rate of ad blockers and a $5 CPM, your visit is worth around one-quarter of a single penny. There is nothing about this system that is good for anyone. It sucks for everyone. I've had game developers tell me happily on Twitter that they block ads, and I feel like that's the same thing as telling them I pirate games. Blocking ads directly hurts the people who write content, and it hinders our ability to make money and stay in business.There are publications that have millions of page views, and they're drowning.Toshiba's high-res Kirabook takes on the MacBook Air and Pro all at once &gt;&gt; The VergeIts spec sheet is where the Kirabook competes most with the MacBook Pro — and Toshiba's reps said as much, over and over. The Kirabook has a Core i5 or i7 processor, 256GB of solid state storage, and 8GB of RAM. You may need that i7 chip, too, because the Kirabook's 13.3-inch display's 2560 x 1440 resolution is going to require some horsepower — that kind of pixel density is rivaled only by the MacBook Pro with Retina Display and the Chromebook Pixel.In person, it's gorgeous. Toshiba reps showed us the same Timescapes trailer that so many companies use to show off their high-res wares, and the color reproduction and sharpness were stunning. Viewing angles are unfortunately pretty bad, but as long as you're sitting in front of your computer the Kirabook's screen is a winner. Its touchscreen was responsive, too, running Windows 8 Pro smoothly. Toshiba's bundling a simple tool for managing all that display real estate, too, making it easy to toggle between larger text and more available screen real estate — though in our time with the machine the default option seemed to be about right, and unfortunately these tools can't make the Windows 8 desktop's tiny buttons any larger.Outgoing Intel CEO knocks Windows 8, predicts $200 touch PCs this year &gt;&gt; ComputerworldPaul Otellini, who will retire from Intel next month, joined a chorus of others, ranging from analysts to longtime Microsoft hardware partners such as Dell, in placing some of the responsibility of the latest PC sales contraction on Microsoft's shoulders."There is an adoption curve," Otellini acknowledged, talking about Windows 8 and its "Modern" user interface (UI), a radical overhaul of the traditional desktop. "We didn't quite have that same kind of adoption curve in Windows 7 versus XP before it. This requires a little bit of training."Otellini, however, did say, "Once you get over that adoption curve, I don't think you go back." He also argued, as have most analysts and many Windows 8 users, that on a touch-enabled device Windows 8 is easier to use than Windows 7.Shortages of touch-ready hardware, particularly notebooks, have plagued the industry since Windows 8's launch. And the higher prices of touch PCs have put off many consumers, who have been trained for years to expect low-priced machines. When they can't find a touch PC in their price range, experts have said, they instead steer toward lower-cost touch tablets.Samsung, please: Stop the madness &gt;&gt; Computerworld BlogsJR Raphael:Let's face it: The "throw everything we can think of against the wall and see what sticks" approach seems to be a key part of Samsung's core philosophy. It's the same mindset that causes the company to load up its devices with a mess of gimmicky features most people will never use instead of focusing on a few really well-developed software elements - or, you know, a carefully constructed user interface that shows eventhe slightest bit of design restraint.Sometimes, morecanbe better - but there's a difference between more for a meaningful reason and more merely for the sake of more. Really, come on: How often are you going toattach audio of your voice onto a still photoor snap an image of yourself with your phone's front camera and insert it into an image you took simultaneously with the rear camera? And how many people are desperately craving a somewhat lower-end 5.8 in. Galaxy device over a 5-in. Galaxy S4 or 5.5-in. Galaxy Note II?Choice - whether in device types or feature options - is beneficial only when it means something. Flooding consumers with every possible thing you can cook up does little more than cause confusion and dilute your brand.Raphael's bio describes him as a "veteran Android journalist" - which means he must have been at it for all of five years.How to reduce image size with WebP automagically &gt;&gt; The NetDNA BlogIt's common to minify CSS and JavaScript files by removing whitespace and comments, renaming variables, and a few other tricks. The main benefit is reducing download times and providing visitors with a faster page load. But on the average webpage, we&amp;#8217;re overlooking the gigantic elephant in the room: images.Images can dwarf text files like CSS and JavaScript:according to httparchive.org, they comprise over 60% of the transfer of average webpage.GigaOM reportsthat webpages grew by 50% between November 2010 and May 2012, and estimates an average size of 2MB by 2015. Combine this growth with the increasing use of mobile devices (i.e., expensive, capped bandwidth), and we're heading in the wrong direction.The solution: optimize images with WebP.Fortunately, Google and other companies are working to reduce bandwidth usage. A major achievement is a new image format,WebP, which handles lossy (JPEG) and lossless (PNG) images, all while reducing file sizes.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Apple shares dipped to a 16-month low during trading on Wednesday as concerns grew that muted phone and tablet sales may cause the company to miss its own revenue targets.In morning trading Apple's stock fell below $400 for the first time since December 2011, before closing at $403. The shares reached more than $705 last September.The selling stampede was sparked by a disappointing trading update at one of Apple's suppliers and warnings from analysts that sales of iPhones and iPads could be lower than expected when the company reports results for its March quarter next week.Texas-based Cirrus Logic, which makes audio chips for Apple's tablets and phones and relies on the technology giant for 90% of its income, reported first-quarter revenue of $170m (£111m), some $27m less than expected. "We blame Apple for losing its mobility mojo," Vernon Essi, an analyst at Needham &amp; Co, concluded in a note. "This was simply an inventory overbuild for the iPhone 5 relative to Apple's forecast."Apple watchers at Citi and Jefferies banks have predicted the company could miss its own guidance for revenues between $41bn  and $43bn in the March quarter, and the company is expected to report its first significant decline in operating income since 2003, with Wall Street forecasting an 18% fall to $9.5bn.Forecasts for iPhone sales in the first three months of 2013 were on Wednesday revised down by 1m to 34.2m by Sanford Bernstein analyst Tony Sacconaghi. He cut his iPad forecast by 1m to 18.5m, and said revenues could be down 3% year on year in the following quarter, which ends in June.The share price could fall further, particularly if Apple does not respond quickly to calls from investors to share more of its cash pile through dividends. "If our estimates for this quarter and guidance are correct, and Apple does not announce that it is returning incremental cash on the call, we suspect Apple's stock could come under further near-term pressure," said Sacconaghi.
Besides Samsung, there's one other company making Android pay: Microsoft. The software giant justsigned a patent licensing agreement– including unspecified payment terms – with Hon Hai, the parent of manufacturing company Foxconn for devices running Google's mobile operating system Android and Google's desktop Chrome OS.Significantly, the agreement says that it covers "smartphones, tablets and televisions", suggesting Microsoft has now broadened the scope of patents that it is using to pursue Android – and now Chrome OS too – to include GoogleTV, which has so far failed to take off significantly.Google does not charge device manufacturers a licence fee for Android or Chrome OS – unlike Microsoft, which charges manufacturers for the use of Windows Phone, Windows and Windows RT licences. But unlike Google, Microsoft provides coverage against patent lawsuits arising from the use of its operating software. Google's purchase in 2012 of Motorola Mobility, with a patent portfolio whose value it estimated at $5bn (£3.3bn), was meant to fend off such attacks – but so far that has failed.Of Android handset makers, only Samsung is making significant profits, despite shipments of smartphones running the software exceeding 144m in the fourth quarter of 2012.HTC was one of the first companies to sign a deal with Microsoft, in April 2010. Acer, Viewsonic, Samsung, LG, Sharp and Nikon have also signed similar deals, which are thought to pay the US company between $5 and $15 per device.That could mean Microsoft is bringing in at least $500m in revenues from Android – this will in effect all be profit once legal costs are defrayed.In the latest deal, Microsoft will get unspecified per-device royalties from Hon Hai for Android or Chrome OS devices it makes under its own name or as a "white label" manufacturer for other companies which haven't struck a deal with Microsoft.The deal with Foxconn is the 19th known to have been made by an Android manufacturer with Microsoft, which has a gigantic patent portfolio covering many technologies that are now routinely used in mobile systems.Apple is one of the biggest users of Hon Hai, which assembles the iPad and iPhone for it, but a mutual patent licensing deal with Microsoft means that it is unaffected.Microsoft and Google, meanwhile, are bitter rivals, and Steve Ballmer's company has been seeking any way it can to undermine Google's success – including the threat of court action against Android manufacturers unless they sign patent deals. So far, only Motorola Mobility has held out against the licence demands, and is fighting a number of long-running court battles with Microsoft in Europe and the US in which it is asserting a number of its standards-essential patents relating to H.264 video decoding and Wi-Fi wireless networking in court cases, alleging Microsoft needs to make substantial payments.But the effect has so far been minimal, with American and European competition authorities instead warning Google about Motorola's misuse of patents that it had pledged to standards bodies would be licensed on an equal basis to all comers.
A juror will be prosecuted for contempt of court after allegedly writing on Facebook that he wanted to "fuck up a paedophile" during the trial of a convicted child sex offender.Kasim Davey was discharged as a juror in the trial in December when he wrote on Facebook: "Woooow I wasn't expecting to be in a jury Deciding a paedophile's fate, I've always wanted to Fuck up a paedophile &amp; now I'm within the law!."He denied posting the message – which is in breach of laws on contempt of court – when initially questioned by the judge at Wood Green crown court in London. Davey was a juror at the trial of Adam Kephalas, a convicted child-sex offender who was given a suspended 12-month prison sentence in January this year.Davey will now be prosecuted by the attorney general for "an act likely to interfere with the due administration of justice".The attorney general, Dominic Grieve, was given permission to pursue the contempt case at a short hearing at the high court in London on Wednesday morning.The two high court judges, Lord Justice Goldring and Mr Justice Ouseley, did not set a date for the next prosecution hearing.Grieve did not attend court as he was at St Paul's cathedral, less than a mile away, for the funeral of Lady Thatcher.The case is the latest in a string of contempt prosecutions involving jurors and members of the public using the internet to discuss ongoing criminal trials.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@guardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
Long-form digital publishing projectMatterhas been bought byMedium, the new publishing platform launched last year byEv Williams, co-founder of Twitter, Blogger and Odeo.Matter founders Bobbie Johnson, a journalist formerly with The Guardian and GigaOm, and Jim Giles, formerly of Nature and New Scientist, will continue to edit Matter, and will joinKate LeeandEvan Hansenon Medium's editorial team.Matter was launched with aKickstarter campaignthat began in February 2012, aiming to raise $50,000 to establish a long-form journalism project focusing on the science and tech of the future. The public responded with $140,000 in funding.In a statement published on Matter and Medium, Johnson and Giles said Williams had initiated talks earlier this year but that there would be no dramatic changes in the short term, though stories would be cross-published between the sites."Our service is an ongoing experiment, but we have no immediate plans to alter the team, the places we publish (our website and the Kindle store), or how much we charge for each article. More importantly, we have no plans - at any time - to stop crafting hard-hitting narratives about big ideas. One of the things that made it easy to join Medium was the knowledge that the company believes in great storytelling as much as we do, and is prepared to support what we do."Johnson and Giles spent two years developing Matter. They would not disclose financial terms or say how long they are tied in to the company.Neither Matter nor Medium, which encourages collaborative, quality blogging, claim to address the challenges of funding quality journalism. Matter charges users 99c per article and avoids advertising, while Williams told theLaunch conferencein March that it was too early to say what kind of system would work for Medium."For a content platform rather than a publication, the economics are very different," said Williams. "If there is a sizeable audience there is money to be made, and that's different to solving the New York Times problem."Williams also described how the economics of web publishing have developed in a way that rewards frequency and volume, de-prioritising long-form content and quality stories. Johnson added today that Matter is just one of a cluster of new companies focused on tackling this issue."Being small allows us to take risks and appeal to people in a way that we're not able to do as part of a big traditional news organisation. We found it easier to run crazy experiments without having to go through lots of layers of management or ask permission," said Johnson."Long-form is not just about words on a page, but about a certain approach, a rigour and a depth that people feel gets put to one side by traditional news organisations. For us it's about paring back and doing one thing as well as we could."
In modern football, it is the playmakers we idolise; the magicians who can orchestrate attacks as well as score. Andrés Iniesta, Xavi Hernández, Andrea Pirlo, Lionel Messi … mostly, they are deep-lying forwards or creative midfielders; they don't get in on the end of long, lofted passes, they sculpt goals. This is where Fifa 14 wants to go.Every year, when the latest Fifa is shipped, the team gets together, sifts through feedback, from within the studio and from customers, and works out where to go next. This time there was a rather weighty conclusion: Fifa is too fast. There is something about the system, the physics, the controls, whatever that leads toward end-to-end gameplay. All the action is happening around the 18-yard area. Everything is compressed."That's not as realistic as we'd like," says series producer Nick Channon as he introduces a roomful of journalists to the latest instalment. "When you look at the modern game, it's much more about building up through the midfield. The best teams move the ball around, switch sides, attack on the wings, they attack from everywhere – that's something we want to bring into Fifa. The exhilaration of scoring great goals isn't just about the shot, it's about how you get there."So for Fifa 14, the big emphasis is on build-up play, on anticipation and on off-the-ball movement; it's about driving through the midfield, rather than lofting balls over it. For a start, the team has completely re-worked how dribbling at speed works. It turns out that in most football simulations, when the gamer hits the sprint button, the onscreen player is limited to a turning circle of just 22.5 degrees – which means you get these long, wide turning arcs. Fifa 14 has done away with that; you'll now be able to turn at any angle while sprinting, leading defenders up the pitch before darting back, or winding through opponents.Players can dart this way and that while dribbling with the ball after EA did away with the long turning circle from previous games. Photograph: EA SportsTo ensure this isn't over-powered, however, the movement physics is getting a new addition: momentum. Now, if your player quickly changes direction, or turns completely, you'll get a brief pause as they transfer weight from one foot to the other. Channon runs through early footage of a sharp about turn on screen, and the effect looks immediately more authentic. Beyond that, we didn't get any hands-on time so I've no idea how losing this historic 22.5-degree turning circle is going to affect things, but it should make for much less predictability in the midfield. Which is the whole point, of course.On that note, Fifa 14 is also set to build on last year's first-touch control system, which varies how effectively a player receives the ball depending on his skill, position and the speed and angle of delivery. This time, EA Sports is introducing variable dribble touches, so sprinting players will push the ball forward at differing distances, again based on their skills; a stylish midfielder will keep the ball close to them, but a hulking defender may well push it out further, giving opposing players the chance to steal possession. Whatever, the days of having the ball stick to the runner's feet are over. "It will transform how you think about sprinting," says Channon.What we're getting so far is a shift in balance toward defenders, and that continues into the demo. The next big change is in marking, which Channon feels tended to be loose enough in Fifa 13 for players to turn defenders reasonably easily. Now it's being tightened up, thanks to a change to the AI. Apparently, in previous iterations of the game, computer-controlled players would make their defensive decisions in a single frame of animation, often breaking away from attackers if another forward player was spotted in a threatening position. Now they assess situations over multiple frames which means they're less likely to act on split-second decisions, instead staying focused to track the player on the ball.EA developers have worked on the ball physics, which makes trajectory and environmental effects more realistic … (dig the pink boots, Becks). Photograph: EA SportsAs a consequence, one cheap route to goal has been closed up. Channon talks about how, in the past, if a ball was cleared from the box, it would almost always fall to an attacking player, allowing the ball to be recycled. Now, however, those players are likely to have tight defensive markers. "It's not about making the game more difficult," insists Channon. "It's about making it more fun." By taking away some of game's repetitive tics, the idea is that the action will feel more authentic, and more representative of the real sport.And to balance things up, there are additions to the attacking intelligence of AI players. They can now make three different types of forward move: spinning out and running in behind defenders; running along the back line to stay onside, and backing in to defenders to create space. Each one is a visual cue to gamers, and as with the variable ball control while sprinting, it adds more personality to individual players – powerful centre forwards will have much more success backing into and tussling with defenders than lighter strikers."The new runs make a huge difference," says Channon later. "The big one is the backing in to defenders, being able to play the ball in to the feet of a striker is important, you see it a lot in the real game. And being able to turn the defender gives you other opportunities. It's all about balance – with the tightening up of marking, it means the game will be less backwards and forwards. We're not changing the actual game speed at all, but it will slow down naturally, you'll be able to look at different options and vary your game. It won't be about getting cheap goals."Defenders’ AI has been improved, with decisions made over multiple frames (although, surely Zaba should be tighter there?). Photograph: EA SportsAdding to the sense of physicality is a new "protect the ball" move, accessible by pressing the left trigger. Hitting this slows the player down, but allows them to shield the ball while dribbling, sticking out an arm or angling their body to see off opposing players. Gameplay producer Aaron McHardy likens the new control system to a racing sim, with sprint on the right trigger acting as accelerate, and "protect the ball" on the left as brake. The idea is that players can now battle through midfield, dictating and varying pace, while probing for decent passes. Players can also use left trigger to jostle for a loose ball, or to counteract a defender using the B button to pull at his opponent.The most intriguing update, though, is to scoring. In the past, player animations didn't tell the full story about a shooting chance. If you hit the shoot button during an animation sequence, the player would be snapped into the correct position – a slightly awkward process. Now, strikers will adjust their stride and angle realistically and this will signal how truly prepared they are. Channon talks about how EA would get feedback from gamers mystified why a certain shot flew well wide or dribbled pathetically into the keeper's arms – now, a new set of animations will provide visual tells: you'll know if the ball is too close to the attacker's feet, if they're going to have to attempt a rushed shot; and by watching closely, there will be a chance to pull out of a strike and instead pass the ball or feint and set up for a better chance.Defenders will get their own version of this. When going in for a tackle in Fifa 13, the defender is essentially committed for the duration of the fixed animation cycle – time it slightly wrong and your man is left floundering. In Fifa 14, however, the more phased approach to animation will allow defenders to break out of the cycle and will get a second chance to tackle. There's only a small window of opportunity, but it's a key addition that's likely to make the outcome of tackles much less predictable. It's all about widening the challenge in those midfield areas.And at last, EA Sports has finally addressed the ball physics – considered by many to be flat and predictable in previous iterations. Channon says the studio has been studying elements such as drag, curve and spin and has totally rethought the physics. Central to this is a much more realistic drag coefficient. The ball will speed up in the air, it will slow, it can almost flatten out or even slightly speed up – simulating the effect of wind, turbulence and the weight of the ball – instead of simply providing a dull curve to the flight. "It just felt like the right time to work on it," he says. "We realised that the linear deceleration of the ball wasn't right – we were getting these really flat, repetitive trajectories. Now you can kick the ball harder, there's more spin, more movement in the air, it just all came together."The hope is that this loosened flight mechanic leads to a far great variety of shots, including the sort of 30-yard low-rising screamers Steven Gerrard tends to fire off, or those shots that dip at the last minute into the top corner. In fact, Channon demonstrated the new effect by showing a video of this famous goal against Olympiakos:Apparently, crosses and long passes will also be affected, allowing a greater range of defence-splitting through-balls.So, that's Fifa 14 right now. Tighter marking, more finesse to attacking play, more control over the tempo – and completely rethought game physics. It's a promising array of improvements – some may read it as overly defensive, but hopefully the added range of forward runs from computer-controlled players, the more expressive movement and the less predictable ball flight will open things up for varied attacking play. And certainly, closer more intelligent marking should rid us of some of those cheap scoring scenarios, like coming in at an angle from the edge of the box and striking across goal, which some Fifa regulars have turned into an unfailing exploit.But these was all shown through demo videos – there is no hands-on code right now. The team is still tweaking the parameters and the animation. Channon did show us a video that one of the QA testers sent him on his mobile phone – it shows the replay of a beautiful goal scored from way outside the box, caught perfectly on the volley, the ball barely rising above ground level, wavering in the air and tucking in beyond a flailing keeper and the near post. Channon can barely disguise his delight.Tomorrow: a look at the new skill games and career mode updates, plus, why we haven't mentioned what consoles the game is coming out on
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.New Criterion IP 'is not a racing game' | CVG UKExpecting another Need For Speed reboot? You might be disappointed:Criterion, the EA-owned Guildford studio with a proud heritage of racing titles, is said to be working on a new IP in a different genre.Studio exec Alex Ward explained on his personal Twitter account that "after over a decade of making racing games it's time to make something new".Initially it was suspected this meant that Criterion would not be developing racing games in the short-term, but in a follow-up message, Alex clarified that he was not speaking for the studio.Not sure how much we should read into this though. Criterion has long spoken about trying different genres; when I met Alex at E3 last year he reminded me about the studio's super-stylish PS2 shooter, Black. But there's always the possibility this is a bluff and that Burnout will screech back into view.UK video games tax breaks in doubt as European Commission launches investigation | MCVUh-oh, tax breaks might be in trouble again:The European Commission (EC) has announced that it plans to investigate the proposals, questioning whether there is an obvious market failure in the UK games industry.Specifically, it is asking the following questions: Is aid is indeed necessary to stimulate UK games development? Would limiting expenditure for the tax relief to goods or services 'used or   consumed' in the UK would be discriminatory Would offering this type of aid would fuel a subsidy race between Member States? Will the proposed cultural test ensures that the aid supports only games with cultural content without lead to undue distortions of competition?UK trade body UKIE remains hopeful that tax breaks won't be derailed, however.The French games industry has been through a similar investigation unscathed, but this will surely be worrying for industry trade bodies Tiga and Ukie, which have been campaigning for video game tax breaks for several years.Remember Me creative director discusses gender equality | Shacknews.comDontnod Entertainment has said that casting Remember Me's Nilin as the lead in its upcoming action-adventure "just felt right," but the creative director Jean-Maxime Moris told Shacknews that the game is more about putting men and women on the same social and professional footing than the developer first envisioned."We didn't think of gender equality being a major theme in the game, but thinking back on the world we designed, it is true that women have key positions in its governance," Moris said. "In 2013, we have a long way to go in terms of gender equality, so take this as a subconscious militant act."Battlefield 4 head dismisses motion control as a 'gimmick' | Edge OnlinePatrich Back of DICE has dissed motion controls:"We are extremely open to innovation, but if it's a gimmick, there's no point unless it adds value to the player. Touch screens used to be a gimmick, because no-one could get it to work until iPhone came out and used it right. It adds to the experience, and now everyone is doing it. To us it's the same with motion control and perceptual gaming in general; if it adds, great. If it's a gimmick, ignore it."AAA troubles can help independent scene, says Klei founder | GamesIndustry InternationalIt's been a difficult stretch for the AAA game industry, with Electronic Arts, Activision, and Disney all making cuts this month alone. As unwelcome as that news might be, Klei Games founder Jamie Cheng told GamesIndustry International that there's an upside to such moves. The head of the studio behind Shank, Mark of the Ninja, and the upcoming Don't Starve attributed the recent boom in the independent development scene in part to years of struggles at big publishers."With all the changes and layoffs, we're seeing so many new studios come up that are doing these games without the crutch of hundreds of millions of dollars of marketing...I think for sure that the layoffs are fuelling way more development in the small, independent space," Cheng said, noting that he prefers "independent" to "indie" as the latter term carries more potentially inaccurate connotations.Bit of Alright Returns. BOAT! | Bit of AlrightThe great indie gaming festival is returning on May 10, alongside the similarly wonderful Wild Rumpus. On a boat:Speakers for BoA this time include Mike Bithell, Holly Gramazio (Hide&amp;Seek), George Buckenham (Die Gute Fabrik), Cara Ellison (Littleloud/RPS), Ben Milsom (Mind Candy), Mitu Khandaker (The Tiniest Shark), Stephen Morris (Greenfly Studios), and Jonathan Whiting, among more to be announced. Subjects will range from game and level design through to Twine games and building custom hardware. Of course, there'll be loads of live games to play as well, and some unconventional design workshops.Get in there quick because the early bird tickets are just £25.You can followPress Start on Pinboard.
It's the middle of the working week. Did you play anything last night? I dabbled in a little Battlefield 3 after an emotional afternoon completing Walking Dead.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid founder: We aimed to make a camera OS &gt;&gt; PCWorldRubin, who became a Google executive after the search giant acquired Android in August 2005, said the plan was to create a camera platform with a cloud portion for storing photos online.He showed slides from his original pitch to investors in April 2004, including one with a camera connected "wired or wireless" to a home computer, which then linked to an "Android Datacenter."But growth in digital cameras was gradually slowing as the technology became mainstream. Rubin's company revamped its business plan: A pitch from five months later declares it to be an "open-source handset solution."Moore's Law and the origin of life &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewHere's an interesting idea. Moore's Law states that the number of transistors on an integrated circuit doubles every two years or so. That has produced an exponential increase in the number of transistors on microchips and continues to do so.But if an observer today was to measure this rate of increase, it would be straightforward to extrapolate backwards and work out when the number of transistors on a chip was zero. In other words, the date when microchips were first developed in the 1960s.A similar process works with scientific publications. Between 1990 and 1960, they doubled in number every 15 years or so. Extrapolating this backwards gives the origin of scientific publication as 1710, about the time of Isaac Newton.Today, Alexei Sharov at the National Institute on Ageing in Baltimore and his mate Richard Gordon at the Gulf Specimen Marine Laboratory in Florida, have taken a similar to complexity and life.This is spooky. Although it doesn't seem to allow for punctuated equilibrium.WhatsApp is bigger than Twitter &gt;&gt; AllThingsDToday, WhatsApp is the single-most-used independent smartphone app in nearly every country in the world. It has hundreds of millions of users, and processes as many as 20bn messages per day. And, as CEO Jan Koum said onstage at D: Dive Into Mobile on Tuesday, WhatsApp is now bigger than Twitter, which officially claims 200m monthly active users. The company daily processes 8bn inbound messages and 12bn outbound.His plan: "build the platform and the revenue will follow". Or a gigantic cheque from either Google or Facebook, surely - both would bid high to prevent the other getting such a global mobile-centric network.***False positive Trojan.Downloader.ED*** &gt;&gt; Malwarebytes ForumAs many of you are aware, we suffered a false positive earlier today which caused many of our users' systems to be rendered inoperable. The offending database was v2013.04.15.12, and was live for only 8 minutes.But still caused problems. Here's the solution. (Thanks @IvanIvanovich for the link.)The Mermaids of Los Angeles: A Dumbphone in Exile | MIT Technology ReviewDavid Zax:As loyal readers already know, a few months ago I embarked upon an experiment: Ijunked my iPhone. Surprising even myself, at the end of the appointed month, I decided not to go back to it. Currently, Imake dowith a very basic Alcatel phone, together with a hand-me-down dataless Verizon iPhone that I use as a de facto iPod Touch.I've been managing fairly well under this arrangement for the past few months. But I live in New York, a walking-and-public-transit city that I know very well. In fact, after years of freelancing in the city, I even know what libraries, parks, and cafes have reliable Wi-Fi. I know how to get from point A to B, and if I'm ever lost, the streets are teeming with (mostly) friendly people to guide me.Los Angeles, though, where I've just spent the past week, is a world apart. I knew as I flew out last week that my dumbphone existence was about to be put severely to the test.One begins to wonder how Americans survived 20 years ago before the internet was pervasive. Judging by this, they must have been getting by on uncooked roadkill.Lines at T-Mobile prove Apple brand still has clout &gt;&gt; View From AboveRon Miller:And if you wanted proof that Apple still has some brand clout, consider that on Friday, T-Mobile began offering iPhone 5s for $99 and saw lines,yes actual lines, outside their retail stores.Apparently even T-Mobile didn't expect this. As Wayne Rash reported in eWeek,the stores were unpreparedfor the popularity of the offer and just a bit overwhelmed. Apparently, they hadn't dealt with the passion of Apple buyers before.What those lines proved was the Apple brand still has plenty of reach and people are still willing to wait in a long line to get the Apple product.Samsung may cleverly make fun of those linesin their ads, but the fact is people have so much brand loyalty when it comes to Apple, they are willing to do that and if the T-Mobile experience is any indication, that still hasn't changed.Samsung started running its ads poking fun at Apple in November 2011. In the US since that time, Apple's installed base has more than doubled. Comparable data isn't available for Samsung, though its smartphone share and installed base has grown strongly. Question: did the ads work?No, Apple's senior VPs are not the S&amp;P 500's best-paid execs &gt;&gt;Fortune TechOn Monday, Bloomberg posted astory(repeated bymore than a dozennewspaper and blogs) claiming that four Apple senior VPs are among the five highest-paid executives in the S&amp;amp;P 500. The executives named were Bob Mansfield, Bruce Sewell, Jeffrey Williams and Peter Oppenheimer. "Their pay jumped," according to Bloomberg, "after receiving 150,000 in restricted stock units shortly after Jobs passed away."No, their "pay" didn't jump. Their total compensation packages may have, but only if they stay with Apple long enough to collect them. That's the point of "retention" incentives: they encourage executives to stick around.Tell me again why we need Office on the iPad? &gt;&gt; ZDNetMatthew Baxter-Reynolds:Technologists have what, I think, is a unique problem compared to other professions - specifically that the delineation between tools used at work and at play is indistinct. If a chemist comes home from work, they're unlikely to have expensive lab equipment in their kitchen. Yet, when a software engineer comes home from work, it's likely they have the same or better kit in their house than they do at the office.Thus whereas a chemist might come home and not go into the kitchen and start running experiments, a software engineer can do exactly that. This bends the technologist's vision because the process of moving from work to play is one that is non-experiential. PC at work, then PC at home. Work tools at work - work tools at home.I don't personally think this needs to be the case - a little light self-reflection and this becomes obvious. Are you a technologist who owns a Kindle? You could read books on your PC when you go to bed, but do you? Do you instead use the Kindle? How about cooking - do you read recipes on your iPad, or do you cart your laptop into the kitchen?Post-PC technology is not about cost-benefit, it's all about experience. Technologists need to reflect on their own unconcious behaviour in order to understand post-PC.Applies more widely than just Office on iPad.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Twitter has blocked Flattr, a "payment" service in which people could get paid for having their tweets favourited by other users, from accessing its systems.The move is the latest part of Twitter's strategy to build a wall around its revenues and prevent rival companies from leaching off any by diverting users - a policy that it has been following with growing intensity since itsacquisition of Tweetdeckin May 2011.Flattrdescribes itselfas a "social microdonation service" which aims to "help creators get paid for their digital content". Users join Flattr, set up a monthly budget, and then click buttons - until now, including "favouriting" tweets on Twitter - to indicate their approval of content creators. At the end of each month, the budget is distributed among the recipients.Flattr's co-founder Linus Olssoncomplained about the move on the company blog, sayingWe think that we've created a beautiful way to support creators by checking what you favorited on Twitter and letting you send a flattr to the writer of a tweet. Twitter did not.So we are extremely sad to announce that from today (16th of April 2013) at noon CET we will remove the possibility to flattr tweets via the use of favorites, as per instructions from Twitter.Twitter, it said, had complained that that broke its API terms about "Advertising Around Twitter Content", which says:"Your advertisements cannot resemble or reasonably be confused by users as a Tweet. For example, ads cannot have Tweet actions like follow, retweet, favorite, and reply. And you cannot sell or receive compensation for Tweet actions or the placement of Tweet actions on your Service."Flattr needs an API key - in essence a password to Twitter's database - in order to provide the functionality around rewards for favourites. Without that, its task would be impossible, and Twitter was threatening to remove that authorisation.Further reading from August 2012Twitter's neutron bombBut Olsson said that while the rule is logical to stop companies selling retweets and followers, he said that Flattr was willing to forgo its 10% commission on the donations. Twitter however turned that down too, telling him that "you cannot sell or receive compensation for Tweet actions or the placement of Tweet actions on your Service."It added that "That includes compensation attached to a Tweet Action [such as a retweet or favoriting] sent to either a [third-party] service or through a service to another user.s"Olsson complained "We feel that Twitter is reading things into their terms that is not there."
You report (Watchdog to investigate 4G sell-off, 15 April) the National Audit Office's decision to conduct a value-for-money study into the 4G spectrum auction. We are pleased that this will happen, as it will provide a good opportunity to examine how we conducted an efficient auction. The auction outcome will support competition, with five different companies able to launch 4G services. It will also lead to investment in new services, greater innovation and enhanced coverage through an obligation to provide services to almost all of the UK population by 2017 at the latest.We designed and conducted the auction to meet our duties under primary legislation. This was established in 2003 under the previous Labour government and has been supported by the Conservative-Lib Dem coalition. This requires Ofcom to maximise benefits to the public by securing the efficient use of the spectrum. It does not require Ofcom to maximise auction receipts. This is understandable, since such a short-term objective could come at considerable cost to longer-term and more important goals, including competition and widespread coverage. The approach we took will ensure that the long-term benefits to the UK will far outweigh revenue raised from the auction.Ed RichardsCEO,Ofcom• It's good to see the National Audit Office investigating the recent 4G auction, which fell spectacularly behind its predicted revenue target. We urged the government to ensure value for money for the taxpayer and were astounded at the £1bn shortfall. £1bn is a serious amount of money to be out of pocket by. Why did the government think it was going to get that much money and why wasn't there a reserve price? Auctions can be risky but should never be allowed to be as damaging as that. Private companies are too often allowed to get their hands on state assets for a bargain price, leaving public finances out of pocket. Public finances need to be carefully managed, now more than ever. We sincerely hope the government learns from this episode and doesn't hastily sell off more family silver in the pursuit of a quick buck.Billy HayesGeneral secretary,CWU
Google chairman Eric Schmidt has denied that there is any tension with Samsung, the world's biggest mobile phone maker and the only Android handset manufacturer making substantial profits.He also said it would be "against our religion" to try to block Facebook Home, the new app from the giant social network for Android phones that effectively takes over the device to display Facebook updates and photos.Speaking at the AllThingsDigital Mobile conference in New York, Schmidt said that reports of tension between the search giant and its smartphone counterpart were incorrect, and that the relationship "has turned out to be the defining one" in Android.The number of Android activations – phones that are connecting to Google's server as they are first used – has now hit 1.5m per day, Schmidt said. That compares to 1.4m per day last month, and 1.3m in autumn 2012. The company is now on track to have a billion devices running Android by the end of the year, he suggested – though it's unclear how many of those will be connecting to Google services. Around a third of all Android phones shipped in the fourth quarter of 2012 were running a version of Android that doesn't use Google systems, according to the research company Gartner.In response to Terry Myerson, Microsoft's head of Windows Phone, who said he would be "very surprised" if Google wasn't looking for some way to block Facebook Home on Android phones, Schmidt responded: "Why are you listening to Microsoft's statements about Google?"Instead, he said it was a "tremendous endorsement" of Android. "I think it's fantastic," Schmidt said. "This is what open source is about. It's experimentation, it's new ideas, it's creativity." Removing it "would be counter to our public statements, our religion," he said. "The answer is 'no, we wouldn't remove Facebook Home [from the Google Play store]."He added: "We're phenomenally happy that people are using Android in these ways. You can't have half-open source. It's open source. Facebook read the manual, they read the rules, and they adhered to them. Good for them. They went to great lengths to remain application-compatible."Some commentators and analysts have suggested that Google would resist Facebook Home, which in effect turns an Android phone into a "Facebook phone" by taking over the home screen and many apps with a Facebook "layer", because it prevents Google from capturing location and other data about the individual using the phone.Myerson also claimed: "Android is kind of a mess… there's clearly mutiny in Starship Android. The only OEM [handset maker] making money off Android is Samsung."But Schmidt responded: "We've spent lots of time with Samsung, and I can confirm to you that the press coverage of tension has not been correct. I've been to South Korea many times to talk to them. They have literally hundreds of millions of phones coming out on the Android platform. The Samsung relationship has turned out to be the defining one, and I appreciated their decision [to help Android from its early days]."For Microsoft, Myerson said that Windows Phone's success was being overlooked. "No one hears about the progress in Poland or Mexico or Italy. For where we're at right now, the focus is to really get to 200 million phones a year through the current model," he said, adding: "We need to be successful somewhere before we can be successful everywhere."One focus was on markets where smartphone usage was relatively low: "Getting to a 20% market share in Mexico or Poland or Italy, that's the opportunity."On apps, he said Windows Phone would have 48 of the top 50 apps in use on iOS and Android "soon".
So Thief is both a reboot and a return to the factors fans have always loved. The emphasis is on thought and stealth, and the city is an open environment filled with possibilities. But what agency will Garrett have in this world? What arsenal of weapons and items can he call upon?While the character's array of gadgets returns, including the signature 'Blackjack' cudgel, most are better suited to distracting guards from afar than for inflicting immense damage. The closest you have to a dangerous offensive weapon is a retractable bow, with specialised arrows providing various benefits. Expect to be firing silent projectiles rather than bolts of mystic energy – if you're not avoiding combat entirely.Whatever you choose, there will be rules and constraints. "This is a resource-based game," says lead level designer, Daniel Windfeld Schmidt. "You can't go around shooting everyone because there just aren't enough arrows! But we also make sure you don't have negative consequences for not understanding complex systems right away. Like in the original Thief games there were consequences to your actions when you understood the mechanics. We have a progression with the weather system, but just like in the real world a little water will not put out a fire. That's why you have special tools which can do that."This is not the sort of game you can dash through thoughtlessly. Enemy AI will lead Watchmen to start searching out hiding points if they suspect your presence, and battles will soon turn against your favour if you attack head on. "In most games, when you come into a situation area it's mostly about how the non-player characters roll between cover," says Schmidt. "Our game is more about how they react when you're not there; that's where our focus is."Thief Photograph: Eidos MontrealWhere there has been evolution is in how the city is navigated. Traditionally, the Thief games were somewhat cumbersome – a way of forcing slower, sneakier play, perhaps, or simply a result of the programming limitations of the time. Now, controlling Garrett is an almost Parkour-like experience, nimbly bouncing off rooftops and deftly avoiding detection. Occasionally, narrative-driven free runs will test your ability to cross the city speedily and unseen. The refined movement undoubtedly works in the game's favour, meaning any challenge is down to the actual difficulty of the game rather than obfuscatory controls."The core game mechanics don't depend on the [hardware] generations. The challenge for the player shouldn't be about learning which button does what, but about how to work that in the game," says Schmidt. "When we design it, we try to make sure it challenges you because it's challenging, not because you haven't played it for two weeks and forgot the buttons. We want it to be more a natural extension of what you want to influence within the game."There's an air of the supernatural to Garrett's adventures. An ability simply called The Eye, gives him a heightened focus spotlighting enemies' weak points and objective locations, and there a few mysterious artefacts with occult applications. Returning fans will likely remember the Undead roaming the streets but, as of yet, there's no indication of anything that macabre here. For the most part, Thief presents a very low-fantasy world. Your skills and thieving prowess are products of intelligence and planning, not arcane powers. "We don't talk about magic anymore," confirms producer, Stéphane Roy. "Maybe there's mysticism but instead of this magical aspect we decided to be a bit more realistic. Less fireballs. It still has a lot of mystical elements. The fictional world still has a lot of things going on that makes you go 'there's something here'. That's part of the story as well."There are, however, undeniable similarities to Arkane Studios' 2012 ode to stealth-action,Dishonored. From Garrett's thief-vision to the proto-industrial, vaguely steampunk aesthetic of the game world, players unfamiliar with Thief's roots may find the two a little close. On closer inspection though, it's more a case of cyclical influence.Much as Tomb Raider inspired Uncharted, which informed the rebooted and far more sophisticated take on Lara Croft, so too can 2014's Thief be traced back through Dishonored to the earliest Thief games.Thief Photograph: Eidos Montreal"Naturally, there are similarities. We played Dishonored and we really enjoyed it [but] it's still a game about revenge and assassination while our game is about stealing," offers Schmidt. "That comes back to how we want to support different play styles. The master thief 'never seen, get all the loot' style, or the more aggressive 'hit-and-run from the shadows'. In other games it's more acceptable to be aggressive, to go out into the open and start fighting. That's not what Thief is about. Thief is about how to use the shadows to your advantage regardless of your agenda. In the old days Thief stuck out and our goal is to live up to the legend of Thief, the game no one else can really compare to. No pressure!"In truth, there will likely be considerable pressure placed on Thief's return. Not only must Eidos Montreal prove that such a long-dormant franchise is worthy of resurrection but also that it can find a wider audience now than it did originally. Thief will enjoy both the blessing and curse of being an early game on new hardware, with greater power at its disposal and less competition on the shelves but also a smaller installed base of users.Despite this, the components appear to be lining up well, with a captivating game world and stunning visuals balanced against a truly interesting protagonist and the freedom to experiment with objectives. If the final game lives up to the promise shown so far, Thief could prove very popular with players old and new alike.
Google has begun shipping its Google Glass "wearable computing" devices to its first users outside the company – and released guides so developers can write software for it.But one thing developers have been told is banned: showing advertising to wearers.Although almost all of Google's revenue – and more than 98% of its profits – comes from advertising, the company is initially shying away from showing adverts on the device, which has an embedded screen in the upper-right-hand corner of the right-hand lens that the company says provides resolution which is "the equivalent of a 25in high definition screen from eight feet away."The voice-controlled Google Glass is able to display information in the screen from the internet via a wireless connection to a smartphone, but also to take pictures and video using a front-facing camera.According to thedetails provided, the camera has a five-megapixel resolution, while videos will be 720p HD resolution. Audio feedback comes from a "bone conduction transducer" which rests on the ear and uses the sound-transmitting properties of the bone around the ear to improve sound.Google is promising that the battery should last for "one full day of typical use" – though it adds that features such as video recording and "Hangouts" (where users join shared video chatrooms) will use up more battery.The devices will cost about $1,500 (£980) each, and are expected to go on general sale later this year. But first Google is seeding them to about 4,000 "Glass Explorers" who won an online competition to try them out and give their outsider's opinion about its usability.Meanwhile, theGoogle Developer termsfor those writing applications – which it calls "Glassware" – for the service says bluntly "No ads. You may not serve or include any advertisements in your [application]." Developers are also banned from using data from people wearing Glass for advertising – including selling or sending that data to third-party networks – or charging for access to their apps and functionality.That could present a problem for some of the companies which have already signed up to provide apps for it. Those include the New York Times and the cloud data store company Evernote.Concerns about the potential for Glass wearers to be distracted while driving have already led to some calls for their use to be banned in the same way as handling mobile phones while driving. Others have expressed concerns about privacy and the question of who owns rights to pictures taken by Glass users in semi-private settings such as restaurants.
