Somerset isnow available in 3DThe 84 comicsbeing made into feature filmsThe magicof make-upIt's timeto email pictures of yourself as a Christmas pixie againThe Dukes Of Hazzardis the 34th best US TV theme tune of all timeWhat really happenedat the 1992 MTV AwardsYou can swapan eye for a tiny cameraMoustaches are to rockwhat Stetsons are to countryHow to makea baby without actually making a baby
The SartorialistHammerpants on the streets of Barcelona, Prada models falling over and smartly turned-out chaps from around the world.Lammo's T-ShirtsSteve Lamacq's 6 Music listeners reclaim their favourite band T-shirts from trendy folk.Last Nights PartyImpossibly fashionable New Yorkers in various relaxed states.Pim Pum PamUgly Betty jumpers and headbands are in mode in the bars of Brussels.Street PeeperAggregating style snaps from two dozen cities.Stockholm Street StyleWearing your nan's shoes and mixing it up with Comme des Gar&ccedil;ons are where it's at in Sweden.
With a whole generation raised on free downloads, the entertainment industry is inching towards the conclusion that most people under 30 are not going to pay for stuff online. This site, the brainchild of Peter Gabriel, offers an alternative. Music here is available as free streams and the odd free download, but in order to listen to it you must suffer a micro-ad. The catalogue is good, with the bulk of the current chart singles and albums included, and it works quite seamlessly. However, the lifeless reviews and dated magazine make it feel a very poor substitute for iTunes and YouTube, not to mention those naughty MP3 blogs.
This is one of those internet experiences that will leave you both bewildered and enchanted - you won't know what it is, but you may well love it. A portfolio for the Dutch web designer Coen Grift, it operates in a highly unique style. Instead of viewing the site by clicking on various pages, you use a hand to drag your way around one enormous, apparently endless, piece of pixelated art. There is much oddness to be enjoyed along the way and plenty of strange sound effects (be prepared for some salty language) as you navigate around. The artwork itself is fantastically wacky, like a 21st-century twisted take on Terry Gilliam.
Gears Of War 2, Xbox 360Inhabiting humanity's final outpost, you reprise your role as the grunting sci-fi bodybuilder armed with great big guns, who, along with his similarly proportioned friends, is our last hope. New additions, such as the ability to crawl towards a team-mate when you're wounded and the enemy's facility to do the same, join a slightly tweaked set of mechanics that make the evil Locust horde die perhaps slightly more easily. It's brilliant fun and retains the need to use cover judiciously during its protracted and hectic gunfights, as well as throwing in even more giant set pieces and large creatures to dispatch than its predecessor. Developers Epic may be stuck in the mindset of an American teen with few interests outside guns and metal but moments of unintentional humour add to some of the finest action sequences you'll see this year.• Microsoft, &pound;44.99Call Of Duty: World At War, Nintendo DS, PC, PS2, PS3 (reviewed), Wii, Xbox 360After the spectacular success of Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, this outing's return to the second world war from its former fury of special forces teams and simulated airstrikes immediately feels like a retrograde step, underlined by muddier objectives called out by your half-heard team-mates. While in higher difficulty levels enemies make slightly more of an effort, the AI is weak, giving battles a shapeless feel as the Germans stack up behind barricades rather than trying to flank you, and your own men wander blandly in front of your machine gun. The overwhelming impression is of too many rough edges and too few inspiring ideas. It's far from a total bust, though, and online multiplayer once again arrives with an addictive experience-earning and ranking system that rewards extended play online.• Activision, &pound;29.99-&pound;49.99Mirror's Edge, PS3, Xbox 360 (reviewed)You're Faith, a rebellious free runner in a near-future dystopian urban sprawl, whose usual rooftop courier work is interrupted by the need to clear her sister's name after she's framed for murder. Of course that's just an excuse for a series of breathless chases, which see you bounding around spectacular aerial structures as you make your way between and through skyscrapers. Set entirely in first person, gunplay is sternly minimised, with evasion and disarmament almost always a better option. Leaping through the levels of Mirror's Edge feels utterly liberating - both from the awkward confines of gravity and the constant need to shoot everyone you meet. Playing like a less violent version of Prince Of Persia: Sands Of Time (easily the best of the series), this is a brave, elegant and almost completely fresh experience, even if those who suffer motion sickness might be advised to play with a sturdy plastic bucket nearby.• Electronic Arts, &pound;49.99
The Bentley Continental GT Speed is a bit expensive. Maybe there are a few bits and bobs we could do without. We can probably safely cross off the list the optional colour-coded boot carpet (&pound;358), the remote heater (&pound;1,969) and the &pound;10,000 carbon brakes. Do we really need cruise control? Is it that arduous occasionally to have to adjust the tilt of your ankle a fraction? I remember when it first became available, hearing stories of German businessmen dozing off at the wheels of their autopiloted Mercedes at 150mph, failing to stop at the end of the autobahn and coming to a halt in a white hot mass of smoking molten rock on the outskirts of Vienna. So, yes, I think we can tick that off the list, too.Then again, the "Speed", as I soon found myself calling it with shameless familiarity, may be a special case. I'd just taken delivery and found myself on the M5 doing my customary 69.9mph when the Archers came on the radio. My Pavlovian instinct - tune to something else, anything else - kicked in, but by the time my attention had returned to the speedo, I was doing close to 100mph. Clearly with that kind of power on hand you'll want cruise control engaged at all times, probably even when reversing.The Speed is the slightly souped-up version of the footballer's favourite super-coupe; Paris Hilton, Gordon Ramsay and Jordan drive them, too (how the brand managers must weep when they open Heat each week). As it ought to be with that name, the Speed is monumentally fast; it is the fastest road Bentley ever, in fact, and also the fastest car ever driven on ice - in Finland last year by the rally champ Juha Kankkunen. It is also monumentally monumental. It makes everything around it look 10% smaller, as if the world was suddenly placed behind a fisheye lens with the Bentley at the centre; although, ludicrously, there is no more room in the back than in any normal, human-sized coupe.So, cruise control engaged, how does it feel to have 600bhp and 2,350kg at your behest? Wrong, of course, all wrong. Morally, that is. The only new cars that pollute more than the Speed are its stablemates the Arnage and Azure, and the latest Lamborghini: the guilt is nigh on unbearable. Beyond the armour-plated ghetto of South Ken, you sense hostility - real or imagined - wherever you go, and I never really unclenched while driving the thing. But is global warming really the fault of a few Bentleys? This at least was my defence when confronted by an environmentalist friend at a party the same week. Same goes for Lamborghinis, Aston Martins and Ferraris while we're at it. Cars such as these are built in relatively small numbers and tend to spend more time parked outside the Dorchester than driven. The truth is, as a nation, our collective Ford Fiestas, or DVD standby lights come to that, have probably done more damage over the years.So, Gore-guilt aside, how to describe driving a Speed? In a word, blissful. In several: cosseting, swoopy, thrusting, frictionless, heavyweight bliss. It can make even Monday morning on Euston Road a pleasant place to be, which I suppose is what you are paying your &pound;137,000 for, and all the more reason to make sure you don't end up as an automotive Hadron Collider.
Xbox-Scenereports that some readers now have Xbox 360 games consoles with long-awaited Jasper motherboards. These should run cooler and should mean the end of the Red Ring of Death, which featured on a recentGuardian Technology cover.The Jasper board has the new 65-nanometer version of the ATI graphics chip, which ran hotter than Xbox motherboards could sustain, over the long term. This should run cooler and it also costs less to produce.It's not easy to tell which machines have the new board. However, they have 150W power supplies with a different plug, whereas Falcon boards have 175W power supplies. Maybe someone will figure out the numbering scheme so it will be possible to tell from the box.Jasper boards also have 256 megabytes of Flash memory to store the new avatar-based (Wii-style) user interface, with space to spare. Earlier models had only 16MB of Flash.AtVentureBeat, Dean Takahashi (who has written two Xbox books, and wrote our cover story) adds:What exactly was wrong with the older 90-nanometer graphics chips and the boards that came with them? I've gotten some new information about that. The main failure cause was "thermal fatigue" of the leaded C4 connections between the graphics chip die and its organic carrier. The underfill had too low a glass-transition temperature for the amount of heat generated. That caused cracking over time, resulting in graphics chips coming loose.In previous versions, Microsoft addressed this with better heat sinks. The temperature sense diode was off in a corner and didn't reflect the true temperature in the core regions. Jasper has shifted to a material with a significantly higher transition temperature. Coming up with this fix took time, since the new material had to be identified and tested. The smaller 65nm chip die also helps since the stresses that cause the thermal fatigue are related to size.For more Jasper coverage, seeDailyTech,SlashGear,Gizmodo,Engadget,Kotakuetc etc.
Got 15 minutes to spare? Great — let's start a car manufacturer. Sure, the numbers for the ones that are around at the moment are pretty dire; it's gotten so bad that the bosses of General Motors, Ford and Chrysler don't know where their next Learjet is coming from. And it'sno better in Europe.The problem though with car companies as presently formulated is that they fare so badly on the Woolworth's test: if it didn't exist, would you invent it in this form?The question isn't whether we'd invent cars. Obviously, they're ideal for their purpose: transporting small groups of people comparatively short distances. But if you were starting a car maker now, would you make a petrol-driven model? Would you price it at £35,000, in the knowledge that it couldlose one-third of that value after just 3,000 miles?Not if you wanted people to buy it you wouldn't. Which leads us to the core of the problem. How do you make cars keep their value? And how do you keep their running costs down?I think that vehicle manufacturers face a fundamental problem. They need to persuade us to spend less on cars, while putting better — as in more fuel-efficient — engines into them.That means hardship. Literal, in some ways. You've grown used to having a CD player, fabulous air conditioning, beautifully comfy seats, side impact protection, 0-60mph in five seconds, and you'd also like to get 70 miles per gallon. Sorry, but some of those have to go.A2002 analysis by Arthur D Little(PDF, 2.3MB) comparing the costs of petrol/diesel-powered vehicles with putative hydrogen fuel-cell and electric-powered vehicles was uncompromising: you can't make alternative fuels cheaper, overall, than petrol or diesel. Fossil fuels are that Holy Grail: incredibly energy-dense, plentiful and comparatively cheap. Pity they wreck the planet.Even though projects such as the Tesla car in the US sound nifty, actually they're (in the words of Dan Lyons) a typical Silicon Valley project:late, over budget and still has bugs: as Lyons writes in Newsweek,five years after its founding, Tesla has shipped about 70 electric roadsters, and the car does in fact turn out to be a classic Silicon Valley product — it's late and over budget, has gone through loads of redesigns, still has bugs and, at $109,000, costs more than originally planned. Tesla's first 40 roadsters went out of the factory with a drivetrain that needs to be replaced. (Tesla will do the rip-and-replace for free.) Its second car, a sedan, has been delayed until 2011. Tesla, based in San Carlos, Calif., has raised $150 million and burned through almost all of it, plus millions more put down by customers in the form of deposits (the company won't give an exact figure). Now, hit by the downturn, Tesla has laid off 20% of its staff, closed its Detroit office and borrowed money to stay afloat.My view of the problem? The Tesla should try to be more like the Model T than KITT.I think that's where the car industry is heading. Look, nobody is buying the damn things — at least not new — because they don't wear out that fast any more. I'veneverbought a new car, and I doubt you have either. The only reason these days for getting another car is because you wrote the last one off in an accident, or it finally succumbed toanno domini.Another reason people won't buy new cars: because so many of them are bought with credit. GMAC — General Motors Acceptance Corporation — used to be GM's finance arm, and basically made it possible for people to buy cars by pushing the price up (you pay more over the life of a loan than the original loan). That cheap credit isn't around any more — witnessGMAC's application to become a bank in the US, so it can be bailed out.But the next thing that will start happening is that oil prices will go up, and up (they will; give it five years) and suddenly everyone's minds will be acutely on fuel efficiency. And that's where the car manufacturers will need to be: offering cheap. AsGM, Ford and Chrylser plummet headlong towards some sort of government-assisted bankruptcy, they need to — as the sports saying goes — "aim for where the ball is going to be".That means cheap cars with wonderful fuel efficiency (think 100+ mpg), so we can replace our old, fuel-thirsty ones. But the price of that efficiency will be cars without mod cons. Air conditioning? Open a window. CD player? Bring a boombox. Side impact protection? You might just have to drive more slowly. Lighter, cheaper, simpler cars look like the way forward. It's not a comfortable future — it's going to be like returning to the cars of the 1950s — but the world is changing. Expect turbulence, as they occasionally warn the bosses of the car companies as they're coming in to land.
With the Festive season approaching, even if you don't have young children of your own, you are likely to be thrust into a situation where you are required to entertain a three-year-old. Whether it's a family get-together, an afternoon office do or just your neighbours mischievously sending their kids around during the Xmas Bond film, an unexpected toddler experience can be traumatic. So can videogames help?Well, games aimed at children under five are few and far between. I suppose it makes sense, considering the complexity of gaming controllers, and the fact that many parents feel guilty enough letting their youngest kids watch In The Night Garden, let alone plonking them right in front of a 42" LCD TV with a frantic videogame assaulting their senses.But assuming you're okay with your teeny ones watching TV, the Nintendo DS and Wii could well prove more viable platforms for infant entertainment, thanks to their employment of intuitive touch and movement interfaces. That's no doubt the thinking behind a burgeoning selection of young children's titles on these two machines. I enlisted my three-year-old son, Zac, to help me test a couple of newcomers...First up, I did It Mum 2, from small UK publisher 505 Games. This company is certainly taking the market seriously. Last year it launched I Did it Mum on the DS, a collection of extremely simple mini-games, with gently educational undertones. This year, there will be a sequel, plus a spin-off, I Did It Mum Picture Book, a collection of eight children's stories each with interactive illustrations. 505 also has a range of spelling, maths and simple pet games for slightly older kids, competing against Ubisoft's highly polished Imagine series."There's a definite gap in the market for titles aimed at a pre-schoolers, particularly on Nintendo DS," said Rowan Tafler, Global Brand Manager, 505 Games when announcing I Did It Mum 2. "The popularity of the original I Did it Mum shows that parents are looking for games to entertain and educate their children."I'm not entirely sure about the educational aspect, but my son Zac has enjoyed playing I Did It Mum2. Like its predecessor, it's a collection of 18 mini-games, all controlled with the stylus. Some are basic interpretations of classics like rock paper scissors, join the dots and spot the difference, others are slightly more complex, like a top-down driving game, and one in which you have to place a series of ladder pieces to guide a character down from the top of the screen - sadly, with the latter, the visuals were so unspecific I couldn't work out what I was meant to do, so my son had no chance.Zac's favourites were the music games. There's a little xylophone to play and some bells to clang about with. I quite like the kawaii visuals, too, though there's some sloppy translation work, with several buttons and options seemingly totally redundant. Also, there's no facility to save all his tunes or his pictures from the colouring in game - a bit of an oversight really.He preferred Peppa Pig from Pinnacle Software, a tie-in with thegenuinely amusing animated series(which he loves, so there's a bit of an unfair advantage here). Released today on DS and Wii, this is another collection of teeny mini-games: you can help Peppa clean the family car, burst bubbles in the bath, play hide and seek or jump in muddy puzzles. I liked the parrot game where you select different pictures to construct silly sentances, which are then recited by Grandma pig's scrawny bird in a daft voice.The visuals capture the style of the series perfectly, and there are plenty of voice samples to please fans. There are also several allusions to stuff that's happened in previous episodes - I won't go into it because it's possible you haven't seen as much Peppa Pig as me.I was disappointed by the lack of interactions with the lead characters though. By far, Zac's favourite part was during the car washing game where you get to squirt George with the hose. There should have been loads more of this supplemental interplay. Also, there's no wherenearenough Daddy Pig - the Homer Simpson of children's TV.Ultimately, apart from portability and an intuitive interface, I'm not sure if either title offered much more than the exhaustiveCbeebiessite which features masses of games. The website for Channel 5's childrens TV section,Milkshake, is also pretty good.So yes, there are options. Either of the DS titles will appease undemanding kids, or just get them to your PC and fire up Cbeebies. If you're lucky, you won't need to go anywhere near Playdoh... or Barbie...If you know of any more games for very young children, let me know - I'll add them to this post - it could come in handy to someone over the Christmas period!
StateStatsis a website that lets you correlate the frequency of Google search results and US statistics, using Spearman's rank correlation. A search for mittens, for example, has a strong correlation with latitude: people who live in Alaska are more likely to search for mittens than people who live in Florida. Search for Microsoft and you'll find the state of Washington comes top, because that's where the company is based. But it's usually much harder to find a connection beyond simple correlation (which does not imply causation), except the most obvious: population density.Silicon Alley Insider has tried a few tech terms, and proclaims that:Internet users in states with high illiteracy rates are more likely to search for MySpace. Searches for Twitter correlate with income, while searching for Yahoo correlates with violent crime and unemployment. Using Google to search for Google doesn't correlate with anything, though it does seem to suggest a degree of stupidity.Most tech terms don't produce any results, presumably because there is no regional data for comparison. However, after trying a few, I found a strong correlation (0.73) betweenPlayStation and obesity. The correlation forNintendois much weaker (0.22).There is data for a wide range of things including age, income and life expectancy. Post a comment if you get lucky….
What's your favourite piece of technology?I would have to say – mostly for practical reasons – myAppleMac G4 laptop I bought five years ago. With that computer I did everything for my film – scanned the negatives, edited it, did the soundtrack ... it was the main tool I used for making the film, apart from the camera.How has it improved your life?It's made it so I can do film from home. I always wanted to break down the myth that film needs to be a big production, and I wanted to find a way to make film the same way writers do their books.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it yesterday, because now I'm working on a new screenplay.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Mine was already obsolete two years ago! It already doesn't do everything I want it to do.What one tip would you give to non-laptop users?To enjoy the fact that they don't have a computer always with them – the problem with a laptop is that you end up addicted to it,. And don't get aBlackBerry– they are just as dangerous.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm definitely a nerd. I tried to be a luddite for many years – I always used to write by hand, or on a typewriter, but then I realised I was wasting a lot of time. I don't think it's possible to be a luddite any more.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?This computer, although by now my washing machine is probably worth more.Mac or PC?I definitely enjoy Mac more because it's more accessible, but what I've heard is that if you are nerdy enough to manage a PC you can do more things. I'm just not that much of a nerd.Will robots rule the world?I hope not, although we already are dependent on them.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played list?I don't have an iPod yet.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I guess I would now like to have an iPod…Jonas Cuaron's new film,Ano Una, opens today across the UK•Film Weekly podcast:Jason Solomons speaks to Jonas Cuaron
Am I the only one a little surprised to see that the Tomb Raider Underworld isselling better on PS3 than 360? Yes, you could argue that 360 owners have simply too many games available at the moment - including exclusives like Gears of War 2 and Fable 2 – and that Lara has to join the queue. Plus 360 owners do – as a stereotype – prefer their shooters to their platform puzzle games. But PS3 owners have got exclusives like LittleBigPlanet and Resistance 2, as well as access to most of samethird party gamesthat 360 owners have.  So why has Lara proved more popular to PS3 owners than 360?Could it be brand loyalty, after all Lara was the gaming star of the PlayStation back in the '90s? Well, her and Spyro, but mainly her.  Or maybe PS3 owners are a more refined bunch who prefer leaping around sunken temples and solving block 'n switch puzzles to chain sawing each other in Gears 2. Heck, who knows? Any Tomb Raiding PS3 owners care to spill the beans?
It's my last day before I return to Blighty and the Friday after Thanksgiving, and I'm still stuffed full of last night's mighty dinner. Rather than give myself indigestion with too much pontification and heavy-duty gaming mumbo jumbo, I thought I'd take the time to point you to some nice social play environments recommended byPC World.These spaces are the more playful, structured cousins to Second Life (although  author Darren Gladstone does give that virtual world a whirl), which centre on gaming, but with a social element.Whirled, for example, the open-source mini-game community, has already taken up several of my digestive hours.Darren's also introduced me to a couple new spaces too, likeMoondo, an avatar-led 3D gaming community, andInstantAction, an indie gaming hub.Go forth and procrastinate. It's almost the weekend and there's so much time-wasting to be had.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Apple is trying to use the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) to stop theiPodHash project, and thereby to restrict the freedom of iPod owners who'd prefer to use alternatives to iTunes, such as Songbird and WinAmp. Since Apple does not make iTunes available for Linux, this is also an attack on open source users who own iPods. It could even result in BluWiki -- which has received a "cease and desist" order from Apple -- being forced offline.The background is that Apple has added a new hashing algorithm to its iTunesDB database file -- which stores user data, such as the details and location of each song on the iPod, as obfuscated by Apple -- to prevent anyone else's software from writing to it. The iPodHash project is an attempt to crack the latest hash.The use of the hash suggests Apple is trying to exploit its monopoly market shares of the portable MP3 player market and iTunes online store to force iPod owners to use iTunes for Windows. Apple uses iTunes to foist its QuickTime media player on Windows users. It has also deceived some users into installing its Safari browser for Windows byoffering it as an "update".Cracking the "iPod hash" would enable rival software to work with iPods. Interoperbility is the aim of the iPodHash project, and interoperability is specifically allowed for by the DCMA.The Electronic Frontier Foundation has offered to get involved, and has publishedApple Confuses Speech with a DMCA Violation, a Legal Analysis by Fred von Lohmann. He says: "Short answer: Apple doesn't have a DMCA leg to stand on." There's also a long answer.One problem is that nobody knows who created the iPodHash pages on BluWiki. The operator, Sam Odio,asked him or her to come forward:Please contact Fred at the EFF. Fred is looking to protect your right to free speech online. But he can't do so if we don't work with him. Because Fred has expressed interest in representing both you and BluWiki, all communication is confidential and protected under the attorney-client privilege. Communication with Fred can not be released in court.If you do not contact Fred, and the EFF does not represent us, we will be forced to comply with all of Apple's demands. If Apple chooses to litigate against us, we will probably exhaust all funds in our defense. Out of money, BluWiki could ultimately be forced offline. This would be one more small step backwards in the fight for the right to free speech.Later, Odio published an email from the authorIn defense of Ipodhash.
It may not have the macho roar of a Harley-Davidson, but the TTX01 will ride easier on your conscience. The world's fastest all-electric motorbike, with a top speed of 125mph, has been unveiled at an international bike show.The TTX01, designed and built by British engineers, was commissioned by the organisers of the world's first emissions-free grand prix for motorbikes, which will be held on the Isle of Man's TT circuit next June. It is the most advanced emission-free bike close to commercial production: it is already road-legal in the UK and its makers claim it can go from 0-60mph in 3.5 seconds. A limited number will go on sale at the end of next year, for &pound;20,000.Azhar Hussain, organiser of the Isle of Man event and a keen motorcyclist, said the TTX01 was a showcase for technology that would feature in the mainstream electric vehicles of the future. "One of the good things about motorcycles is that the technology is good enough today to give you a motor sport performance" with no emissions, he said.The only other electric bikes close to commercial production are the US company Brammo's Enertia, due on the market next year, and the Vectrix scooter. Both are aimed at the commuter market, and have lower top speeds - 50mph and 60mph respectively.But there may be a sticking point before electric bikes become mainstream. "It hardly makes any noise," said Hussain. "Either we start making noise, which is quite an inefficient way of moving forward, or we start training people that these bikes will be silent so you need to start looking both ways before crossing the road."The TTX01 runs on two battery-powered motors - designed by Brighton-based Agni Motors - attached to its rear wheel. It is rated at about 86 brake horsepower, equivalent to the peak power of a standard 600cc racing bike.In the prototype unveiled in Birmingham, the drive has been built into the frame of a standard Suzuki. But the final version, due out in a year's time, will have a frame made from lightweight carbon composite materials. It will also incorporate technologies such as regenerative braking, to increase its range.Bikers have welcomed the development. Jeff Stone, of the British Motorcyclists Federation, said: "Like electric cars, it'll take some time to get used to, but this is a pioneering venture. It's well known that racing improves the breed."After tests, the TTX01 will undertake a European tour before coming back to the Isle of Man in time for the TT race, in which 50 teams will compete, next June. On a full charge and at a moderate speed, the bike's 75kg battery will currently allow it to travel around 50 miles.
Like a debt-ridden retail chain stumbling through the recession, somehow remaining in business despite all sense to the contrary, Best of Gamesblog returns. This week it's last week, not this week, but hey, when last week boasted James Blunt, the BNP and the films of Kevin Smith, why shouldn't it be savoured five days late?Limni is on editing duties. "For the first time, it felt like a chore," he told me, sanguinely. I think it was James Blunt wot did it.Personally, I think there's some good stuff in here...Part one: game chatCall of Duty: World at WarCameroon95 kicked off this hot topic with the understated, "Thinking of getting Call of Duty: World at War, what's the view on this? I played CoD4 to death online".Quick to respond, Timmmy provided his mini-review: "Can't comment on the multiplayer aspect, as I've only played the campaign. A reasonable way through now (after a few setbacks - game kept crashing at a certain point) and it just feels like more of the same. It's a fairly polished experience, big set-pieces, graphics are fairly good etc., however going back to WW2 after COD4 feels like a bit of a step backwards. The pacific campaign adds some new scenery, but you can't shake the 'been there, done that' feeling (or at least, I can't). Not saying it's bad mind you, just a little too familiar...By Thursday Timmmy had had enough. "Took COD:WAW back to Blockbuster last night, couldn't be bothered with it - nowt wrong with it particularly, just too similar to previous ones, felt like I was replaying an old game."Then Bertjansch chipped in. "COD WOW multiplayer is almost identical to COD4. And that is a very, very good thing indeed. New maps, different and very enjoyable weapons, obnoxious 13 year old yanks and woolybacks to shoot - what's not to like? Especially since having caned COD4 I'm actually good at the multiplayer from the start without spending the first few months having my arse handed to me.Only differences really are artillery replacing airstrikes and packs of attack dogs replacing the chopper (this is a particular blast especially watching people from a distance as they frantically try and knife Fido!)Single player is good but obviously not as good as multi, it's also frustratingly hard at times with re-spawning enemies etc. Very good though but will be spending most time on multi."Next, F0ll0wy0urexit arrived, and managing to get on Best Of with his first ever comment. "So I bought COD 5 yesterday and I was specifically looking forward to the co-op mode due to my mates wanting to destroy things with me. Is anyone else really disappointed with the way the screens are split?! I understand that the game uses large landscapes for battle scenes and you could argue that you need the width for these, but it's my personal feeling that they should have forgotten about the aspect ratio and used the typical split screen down the middle... or at least given the option for this to happen. It's really annoying."Limni's view – I've been playing it on PS3 over the weekend and enjoying playing an FPS on a console for the first time in ages. It certainly feels cinematic on the larger screen. Not got into Multiplayer yet – I suspect I'm going to get taken to pieces!Keef's view - I'm with Timmmy on this one, as my blogpost last week made clear. It's well-constructed, but if I have to run through one more bombed-out representation of a small European town, I'm going to take a howitzer to my TV. Also if you stand in the wrong place when your computer-controlled pals move in behind you, you can actually get trapped behind them. This has happened to me on a couple of occassions. Hello?! QA?!Part two: not the sharpest chatter in the boxI can't believe this actually became a topic, but after a particularly poor Monday we were starved of decent subject matter. It all started with a side comment from Smike: "The studio guest was James Blunt and he said he remembered playing Chuckie Egg on the BBC."Dizzyisanegg replied: "Saw that Blunt + WoW thing. The thing about Blunt is that although his music is very obviously objectionable I find, whenever I see him on TV, that I'm completely fascinated by him. He's so posh - he's like some sort of comedy alien pretending to be from Sussex - so polite and interested to find out about our Earth ways and trying not to let on that his Dark Overlord will vaporize the planet once he has the information. I think, for me at least, he ceased to be a hate figure the moment I saw his Sesame Street appearance. Anyone who buys his records or goes to see him is obviously an idiot but that isn't his fault. In my mind slagging off James Blunt is like punching a kitten."The big revelation came from BeardofBees – it turns out the 'box has its very own resident Blunt fan: "Blunty is alright. His music is fine, really. Horrendously overplayed, but I remember getting it before the rest of the world seemed to have it on perma-loop and quite enjoying it. And he's always funny and seems like a nice guy. He's a good sport too as evidenced by that Sesame Street thing and did you see him on Top Gear? Stop hating on the Blunt."TonyHayers had a typically cynical view: "His name rhymes for a reason. His voice is very, very odd, and annoying, his music awful. Though he does seem to be quite a decent bloke, and really everyone is just jealous of him having made a chunk of cash, and going to live in Ibiza while servicing endless models. I know I am."Alfienoakes had a position he wasn't prepared to change: "You're wrong, he has no redeeming features at all – None"Sever brings a literary stance: "He's alright, can't believe a person like him actually was a soldier, he seems way too clean and unaffected. Everybody would probably appreciate him more if his music wasn't rotated so heavily, we wouldn't hate so much. Look at Dido, gone for a few years and people start missing her. Hunter S. Thompson was right about the music industry though..."EnglishRed was more interested in the (military) man than the music: "Wasn't Blunt in the Blues and Royals or some similar regiment though? Aren't the majority of their duties polishing their helmets/breastplates and riding horses after the Queen on state occasions?"LarryLoxley appeared as shocked as me by the whole discussion: "James Blunt? Seriously? I just assumed the millions of people who bought his album were either deaf/senile or children. I guess it is actually the Blog that is keeping him in existence. Stop it now. Please."Part three: never talk about politics or religionThe release of a list of BNP members caused controversy on Wednesday and the 'box chat got political:ImperfectRex mentioned it first: "By the way, anyone find that BNP membership list? Surely no Chatterboxers could be in a cold sweat this morning. It seems like they were holding a lot of information on people. Why on earth would they need to know members' occupations (and why indeed would a copper for instance tell the truth)? Apparently there are also kid's names on there as people have bought 'family memberships'. Thanks mum, thanks dad. Best Christmas ever."AndyJ23: "Wonder how many police officers will be putting in their resignations this morning? Unless it's some wicked plan by the BNP to get people out of their jobs who aren't their members!"Umborous23: "I managed to get on to that last night and forwarded my local activist's details on to the local paper, as he likes to hand out fliers through doors anonymously. If they take the story up then fair enough, if they decide not to I can't blame them as it was front page scandal in the Metro this morning! There were names on the list from households which were clearly children - 'Not a member as not 16 yet' underneath them. Obviously that is bad news, but the whole thing made me chuckle for hours. The poor fascist racist's privacy has been truly invaded. Oh no!!I especially loved the comments from their forum "What the f**k is going on? I could lose my job over this!" And so you should, you nutcase. There's a reason why those in positions of responsibility are not allowed to be members and if they lose their jobs as they have been lying about their membership then good riddance to the lot of them."NickT drew a few responses with his comment: "To be honest I think people should be able to join any party they like, that's what makes this country democratic. The fact the list is in the open should just embarrass a few folks, I don't think they should lose their jobs over it, in fact with their colleagues knowing they might be able to talk a bit of sense into them. Only if the BNP got violent and KKK-like should they be reigned in."Craggy (to NickT): "While I don't see that membership is particularly different from being a member of the Black Police Federation etc I wouldn't want a BNP member to be involved in cases against Asians or Blacks, it would taint every investigation that they were a part of.ImperfectRex (to NickT): "People can be members of whatever political party they want (apart from plod). If they think society in general would find it objectionable then they should maybe reconsider."BeardofBees: "People can join whatever party they want and I'll shout to my last breath for the right of the BNP to have a platform to express their views. Then we can publicly mock and denounce them for their bigoted ways, yes, but at least it's all open and public.CommodoreSchmiddlapp: "Absolutely everyone has the right to join any political party they wish to - they should however be aware of the potential consequences of doing so. Unfortunately, if people do lose their jobs over this, the BNP will probably get more members, or at least unite their base over the perceived injustice. Scary stuff really, parties like the BNP - do you ignore them and thereby add credence to their "outsider" status, or engage them and make them look legitimate?"Sorbicol: "Never fails to amuse me just how thick people can be and just how little they realise how much information on them, their lives and their views are available online. While I've got sympathy that the list was released in an apparently malicious manner and the info should never have got out, I've got no sympathy for any policemen losing their jobs over it - they aren't allowed to be members, it's the law. Anyone stupid enough to tell the BNP they are a policeman probably deserves to be sacked anyway.Part four: the works of Kevin SmithCBPodge enjoyed a highly cultured evening watching Zack &amp; Miri make a Porno. His review started a Kevin Smith (and more specifically Chasing Amy) appreciation group:"'twas OK. Funny and crude, as you'd expect from a Kevin Smith film, and with an absolutely terrible romance plot as you'd expect from a Kevin Smith film not called Chasing Amy. No Jason Lee, no Smith acting. Jason Mewes is genius as usual. Dutch rudder - excellent idea."BeardofBees was first to share the love: "Chasing Amy, to this day I maintain that this is quite a good film. Nobody else seems to agree, especially the missus who has such a very passionate hatred for it. I appreciate it's more of a bloke's film really, but why don't people like it more? It's quite funny, it's quite a good story end to end. It's a good example of Kevin Smith (overrated director by the way. Clerks = great, Chasing Amy and Mallrats = good, everything else = not so good). What's the beef?Alfienoakes agreed: "Chasing Amy is probably my favorite Kevin Smith film - Its a wonderful good hearted romantic comedy - Anyone who says any different is a fool. I agree with you about the rest of his stuff but I do have a soft spot for the God one - the name escapes me at the moment and I can't be arsed Googling it"Loser's view is worrying cerebral for the Chatterbox: "Chasing Amy is a cracking film and the cock jokes are kept to a grown-up minimum".(I believe we have the next Pauline Kael on our hands! Keef)And if you thought that was concise, check out CheddarFrenzy's report: "Chasing Amy - is great"Chubster2010 put a bit more meat on Kevin's bones with his anecdote: "When I was living in the US, I went to 'An Audience with Kevin Smith' - he was very funny. He turned up and said - 'I haven't got any material prepared, but if you wanna ask any questions fire away!'. I was like - 'What the f**k? I paid about £20 for this?!?' Two and half hours later he was still going. Very funny with loads of good little stories from the film industry.Umborous23 is less of a Chasing Amy fan: "I like Clerks and Mallrats best. Chasing Amy was okay, my better half also has a passionate hatred for it though. Clerks 2 was better than expected."Davefalse wraps things up: "One of my favorite films ever, I love it. Although girls in particular seem to hate it, especially Joey-Lauren Adam's voice."Limni's view: Dogma is my favorite, I do like Chasing Amy but it's a very dark film, especially the way his relationship with Amy destroys his friendship.Keef's view: Clerks is his only genuinely great film.Quote of the Week"Barely a week goes by without me having to hide in a tree to escape a polar bear"I know just how you feel, DizzyisaneggOther Quotes"Sod this, the markets are heading south again. I'm off to Somalia to go pirating. Boats full of oil and Russian tanks, hostages, heavy firepower, ex-SAS men delivering suitcases of unmarked bills. Cool. I'm going to make a TV program about it."If this was anyone other than TonyHayers you'd assume they were joking"Am astounded everyone would rather discuss the merits of Bananarama over Big Fun instead ofthe consultation"PhilosopherK1ng will learn our ways, in time"Observe: We no longer have a smoke alarm in the kitchen. One of the housemates broke it by throwing it across the room. The reason? It was too loud in his ears. Reason? While it was going off he held it against his ear to demonstrate that it was going off in his ear. Then he hoofed it across the room."Lamontagne on the perils of Polish housemates. Or at least, his ones."I once consumed 75 cans of beer in one sitting with two friends while playing nothing but pro evolution 6 and eating oatcakes, pickle and cheese. Looking back it was a bit primitive."Sounds like the height of sophistication to me, Mollocate?Link of the WeekFrom Chubster2010 with this news snippet:Eidos allegedly silencing unfavourable Tomb Raider reviews.Games:Fallout 3, LittleBigPlanet, The Orange Box, PES2009, Wrath of the Lich King, Mirrors Edge, Ultimate Ghosts and Goblins, Fable 2, Guitar Hero: World Tour, Gears of War 2, Left4Dead, Call of Duty: World at War, Bioshock, KillZone2, Resident Evil 4, Civilisation Revolution DS, Advance Wars: Dark Conflict, TrackmaniaFilms:Burn After Reading, Predator 1&amp;2, AvP &amp; AvP: Requiem, Blind Fury, The Mist, Dark Angel, The Hitcher, Bladerunner, Prince of OrangeMusic:Dido, A-Ha, TV on the Radio, Funeral for a Friend, Tears for Fears, Atreyu, Cancer Bat, Killswitch Engage, Glasvegas, The Deftones, The Vaselines, Chairlift, Ou est le Swimming Pool, Sigur Ros
Every month, the excellent indie gaming siteGameTunnel, rounds-up the latest releases using a Famitsu-style review model in which all the writers get to have their say. I thought it was worth linking tothis month's edition, because, a) there are some interesting games in there, and b) with a recession-ravaged Christmas coming up, you may need all the free/cheap gaming you can get your hands on.The star on top of the Christmas tree isWorld of Goo, the brilliant physics-based puzzle, which is also available in a WiiWare incarnation. As I've probably mentioned before, the idea was original formulated during theExperimental Gameplay Projectbefore being refined and improved immeasurably. It's now an absolutely unmissable blend of bridge-building gameplay and gorgeous stylised visuals and I demand, yesdemand, that you play it immediately.Also looking good are squad-basedRTS Project AftermathandBaddest of the Bands, the latest installment in the successful Strong Bad's Cool Game For Attractive People series, which is also on WiiWare. I was interested to seeKudos 2on the list. The original was an intriguing life simulation based around the sorry existence of a London twenty-something looking for meaning and social cohesion in the big city. Number 2 gives the whole thing a graphical shake-up and deepens the experience. Definitely worth a look, although don't go in there expecting The Sims...
The effectiveness of the web showed itself once more with the terrorist attacks in Mumbai - with the photo-sharing site Flickr and the microblogging system Twitter both providing a kaleidoscope of what was going on within minutes of the attacks beginning.As India's financial capital, Mumbai is home to a number of the country's most computer-literate users - who have been quick to adopt the microblogging format ofTwitter, which limits messages to a text message-length 140 characters.Flickr was soon host to a set of photos from Vinukumar Ranganathan, who grabbed his camera and headed out into the street; hisset of pictures taken on the night contained 112 photoswith dramatic scenes of the aftermaths theattacks in the district of Colaba.Twitter meanwhile provided a constant stream of information through its search function, allied to the use of tags -#mumbaibeing the favourite as the situation developed. The first notes of the attacks came from Indian users of Twitter (though the site's search facility doesn't go far back enough to show them).In fact the Indian government became so concerned about the amount of information being spread through Twitter that itasked for the site to be temporarily blocked.AGoogle Maps pageandWikipedia pagewere quickly set up - but what they couldn't tell people was whether their loved ones were safe.For that, conventional systems still seem to be the robust ones. But the strength of Twitter for passing on details of what's happening (if not for echoing it, which only added to the noise) may carry important lessons for larger organisations trying to keep track of widely-spaced emergencies. Twitter is, in essence, a text-messaging facility; it's been used to great effect with natural disasters such as fires. The means that wherever there's a phone, there's the same utility.Which only makes it a pity that Twitter is still struggling to find a commercial model that would let it be broadcast to those who want it via text message. Afterwithdrawing its text message broadcast service in the UK(though you can still text updates to it), it has nowdone the same in Canada. As it starts to look like an increasingly useful system (because text messages don't need as much bandwidth as a voice call, and so can better survive the failure of parts of the mobile network; and 'tweets' can be sent via text message. But if you can't receive those messages, the network's usefulness falls.(Related: Jessica Reedrounds up citizen journalism on the Mumbai attacks.)
Nokia, the world's largest mobile phone maker, has decided to stop selling phones in Japan, except for its luxury Vertu brand, reportsReuters."In the current global economic climate, we have concluded that the continuation of our investment in Japan-specific localized products is no longer sustainable," Nokia executive vice president Timo Ihamuotila said in a statement.The story says the problem is that "Most of the mobile phones used in Japan are part of third-generation networks and boast features such as TV broadcasting and electronic payment functions."The need to develop special handsets means non-Japanese suppliers have only a small share of the Japanese market -- about 5%, according to IDC Japan. But it also means Japanese phones don't sell outside Japan.Sales of Vertu phones are probably not going to be large. Reuters says: "Vertu, founded in 1998, sells gem-encrusted, hand-built mobile phones with prices ranging from 3,500 euros to over 100,000 euros."That sounds like a strange business to me. If your €24,000 phone is obsolete after two years, that's €1,000 a month in handset depreciation. (The original Vertu Signature cost €24,000 -- as hand-made in Hampshire and sold in London.) Can you get the diamonds re-used on a different handset, or do Vertu buyers have so much money they just don't care?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
The results of a three-year longitudinal study funded by the MacArthur Foundation have argued that online games and social networking tools help kids' development, rather than hinder it.The Digital Youth Project, led by Mizuko Ito at University of California, Irvine, found that kids whodon'tengage in these spaces are left out of crucial social skills building experience which set them up for future interactions.Called theDigital Youth Project, the study was conducted over three years starting in 2005 during which a team of researchers interviewed more than 800 kids and observed teens online for more than 5,000 hours. The goal was to provide an ethnographical view of how children use social media - an umbrella term for social-networking and video-sharing sites and multiplayer video games - to socialize, relax and learn.Children use technology to maintain "always on" communication with their friends, through social networking, instant messaging and text messaging, the study said. These forms of contact have emerged as the new public hangout for teens, replacing school hallways, shopping malls and the street.Read morehereand download the full documenthere.
Can I have a latte instead?An amazing marriage of technology, physics and chemistry: a cup you can drink from in microgravity. Usually, the fluid would float out - but this uses surface tension to keep it inside and only flow along the narrow outlet.William Gibson, I presumeThe Skyrails project at the University of New South Wales aims to provide visualisations of social networks. Here, it looks more like the "consensual hallucination" of Gibson's 1984 novel Neuromancer.Next, we'll explain it with pastaThis claymation short shows graphically why C programming isn't taught in this form at any level. Except on YouTube.Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us in the comments!
My four-year-old PC recently started making lots of clicking noises and now the drive seems to have completely given up. Is there a way of transferring Windows on to my new drive?Mike SalmonIdeally, you should be able to copy the disk image from your backup. If not, your PC manufacturer should have provided you with a backup copy of Windows on a small partition on the hard disk - which is now lost - and/or a recovery CD specific to your hardware. Your cheapest option is therefore to contact the PC manufacturer and ask for a CD: you may be able to do this by entering the model number at the company's website. However, PC makers vary in efficiency and most don't keep recovery CDs forever.Since you didn't buy Windows from Microsoft, it won't provide you with a recovery CD; it doesn't keep them, or even know what's on them. You can, of course, buy a new copy of Windows XP, but you will also need to reinstall your old programs and data.An alternative would be to install, for example, the Ubuntu version of Linux. That depends on the size of your investment in Windows software, whether you need to run programs that are not available for Linux, and whether you are willing to learn a whole new system.
I am alarmed at the amount of space on my Windows hard drive used by the $hf_mig$ folder. Can I safely delete this, please?Alan SimpsonNo, these are Windows updates and patches. You can, however, delete any folders that start with $NTUninstall. If you do, you will not be able to uninstall any updates that cause problems, but you're unlikely to want to uninstall anything that's more than a month old. You could also run CCleaner (ccleaner.com) to see if you can recover some wasted space. But if you have reached the stage where you're thinking about deleting hidden operating system files, it would be an even better idea to buy a new internal or external hard drive. You should always try to keep at least 1GB free on the C: drive.
Do you know of any free antivirus software for Mac OS X? ClamXav does not have real-time protection.Damian LinesThe only one I know of isiAntiVirus, which is a Mac version of the PC Tools software. This costs £29.95, but there is a free version for non-commercial use. At the moment, of course, there is very little to protect against.
It is disheartening to read how images shown on the internet can be taken and used by others. Is there a way of displaying images so that they cannot be downloaded?Bill PeirceIf the image is on your screen then it has already been downloaded, but you can try to stop users from saving it by, for example,disabling the right mouse-clickor hiding the picture under anoverlay.However, users can often get images from the browser cache, eg Temporary Internet Files, or grab them by using a screen capture program.Some sites discourage theft by overprinting images with their address. Some use digital watermarking (digitalwatermarkingalliance.org). Web crawlers can identify these watermarked photos, so the copyright owner can take action to try to stop unauthorised uses of their images.
I cannot shut down or re-start my Apple iBook. When I try, I get a message - "Your network settings have been changed by another application" - that I cannot get out of.Bob GallagherThe problem is quite widespread and seems to have been caused by an Apple security update, 2008-06.According to adiscussion thread on Apple's forum, you can solve the problem by removing four preference files (com.apple.airport.preferences.plist, NetworkInterfaces.plist, preferences.plist and com.apple.nat.plist) then letting Mac OS X recreate them.
I use Adobe Creative Suite 2 to create storyboards and illustrations on my PC. Is there a cheap or free illustration package for the Mac, as I don't much fancy shelling out again. I'm looking for one that offers layers, but it doesn't need to be monumentally sophisticated.Dan BiddleAdobe offers PhotoShop Elements at a tenth of the price (about £70). Cheaper alternatives includePixelmatorat $59 (£38); the simpler Acorn (flyingmeat.com/acorn) at $49.95; and Gimp, the GNU Image Manipulation Program, which is free, but horrible (gimp.org/macintosh). You could also install Windows on the Mac and keep using CS2.
Everyone would like to get more mileage out of their car. Professor Rongjia Tao, of Temple University in Philadelphia, reckons he can increase diesel fuel economy by up to 20% by applying an electric field to the fine spray of fuel that is injected into an engine's combustion chambers, where it ignites and powers the pistons.Tao says that the electric field makes the droplets smaller, leading to better combustion. There's no doubt that smaller droplets will burn better and produce more energy. The question is, can the electric field really make that happen?Troubled watersWater has a low viscosity while oil's is higher - that's why water flows more easily. In 2006, Tao and a colleague demonstrated that an electric field (electrorheology) and a magnetic field (magnetorheology) temporarily reduced crude oil viscosity.Taking this idea forward, Tao thought about refined automotive fuels such as diesel or petrol. "I realised in physics it was known that, for droplet formation, viscosity plays a very important part."The right atomisation of fuel before its combustion is a vital step. Tao says most harmful emissions come from incomplete burning, so reducing fuel droplet size increases the surface area for burning, which leads to more complete combustion. A finer spray is possible by boosting fuel line pressure, or using electrostatic atomisation, where the fuel droplets are negatively charged.In arecent paper, Tao points out that high-pressure (100 bar) solutions require "substantial changes of the fuel lines in vehicles, because current gasoline vehicles can only sustain a fuel pressure less than three bar". (One bar is standard atmospheric pressure.)But experiments by Tao and his colleagues showed that smaller diesel fuel droplets were formed when a strong electric field was applied to reduce the viscosity just before atomisation. The fuel passes through an electrically charged tube where two internal meshes produce an electric field of 1 kV/mm between them. It then flows to the fuel injector for atomisation. "The average viscosity reduction is about 9%," Tao says.For diesel fuel, the number of smaller droplets increased (some are smaller than five microns) when the fuel device was switched on. There was less of an effect with petrol. A diesel engine trial showed a 5.5% improvement in economy but, following modifications, six months of road testing gave a 20% economy boost for motorway driving and between 12% and 15% in city driving.Will a simple low-powered device (it uses less than 0.1 Watt) really achieve all that? After all, similar claims by fuel magnet manufacturers (which put a household-strength magnet around the fuel line) have been debunked. So the Guardian sought opinion from three academic experts. One didn't believe Tao's research, saying "this does not stand up to its claims".Dr John Shrimpton of the University of Southampton agrees with Tao's conclusion that a fuel-saving technology could be useful, but says the physical explanation of a viscosity decrease is "full of holes"."The viscosity change is I think due to electrical forces present in the fluid biasing the viscosity measurement - poor experimental method. The viscosity will appear to decrease, but it is not decreasing," says Shrimpton. "A much better explanation for the improvements in fuel economy is the improvement in atomisation, spray dispersion and fuel-air mixture preparation in the engine due to the electric charge on the liquid drops."Shrimpton co-authored a paper on the dynamics of electrically charged transient evaporating sprays, which offers a detailed mathematical understanding. This leads him to think that a reduction in surface tension might be a factor with Tao's work.Brunel University Professor Wamadeva Balachandran, who has spent many years working in electrospray atomisation thinks there's a "completely different explanation". He queries the use of mesh rather than fine charged needles normally used for electrospray atomisation.Attractive technology"The other big problem I have is that they have used extremely old techniques to measure the [droplet] size distribution. This is something I used 25 years ago when there were no laser techniques available," says Balachandran.However, he agrees with Tao that high-pressure fuel systems are a difficult way to improve economy."This is why the electrospray technology is attractive," he says. "I've spent 20 years of my career messing around with electrosprays and we haven't got a device we can use in a motor car."Temple University has applied for a patent on Tao's work and has licensed the technology to California-based Save The World Air Inc. There are now plans to test the fuel device on diesel-powered trucks with hopes of making fuel efficiency improvements of between 6% and 12%. But for those who bought a much-hyped fuel magnet to save money, it might seem like d&eacute;j&agrave; vu.
WithGoogle Flu Trends, a project devoted to inferring outbreaks of influenza from search queries, Google has unwittingly hung a big sign on itself advertising services for government surveillance. Of course, the privacy implications of search engine databases are a longstanding issue. But the topic tends to be treated as an academic concern of privacy activists or civil libertarians - until some controversy propels it into public awareness.The investigation itself is laudable. In sum, an increase in people searching for queries related to flu is likely to signal an outbreak of infection. Researchers at Google and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have written apaperon how to data-mine search logs for this purpose.The paper states: "Harnessing the collective intelligence of millions of users, Google web search logs can provide one of the most timely, broad-reaching syndromic surveillance systems available today." It would be more accurate, though more disturbing, if the first part of that sentence read: "Harnessing Google's ability to do extensive real-time monitoring of the search activity of millions of users ..."At its core, this project is demonstrating how Google's infrastructure can be used for tracking the population. The technical problem is independent of social values. In the same way that a system prohibiting reading forbidden material can be applied to sex or to political dissent, amonitoring systemcan be applied to the virus of influenza or the virus of democracy.What's especially significant here is that Google has in effect created and publicised a working prototype. Whenever data-mining is discussed, objections are raised regarding the likelihood of false positives and the possibilities of poisoning by saboteurs. While the researchers acknowledge such potential problems, the overall result is claimed to be useful and worthy of publication in a scientific journal.It could all be for an extremely good cause. But it raises the spectre of less than noble future applications. Two privacy groups, the Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) and Patient Privacy Rights, havewritten to Googledetailing concerns focused on whether the aggregate data could be used to identify individuals. There have been notable incidents where supposedly anonymised datasets have leaked personally identifying information.EPICsays: "Historically, identification through aggregated data has been subject to abuse ... Therefore, automatic, permanent, one-way anonymisation of such information is necessary."However, the main value of this relatively small but easily graspable individual privacy risk may be in raising awareness of the much larger but more abstract societal surveillance risk. While people's health concerns should certainly be treated as confidential, what's being done here is to find methods for automated mass observation.In effect, techniques developed to find interests for advertisers are being repurposed. This is even more worrisome when one considers the implications for electronic health records, an area where Google has been very active - whoever gets to be a standard computerisation technology provider for the health industry will make a fortunes.There is a standard ideological rant that it's a threat to freedom when government have large databases concerning citizens, but simply good business for corporations to have large databases regarding users. The problem is that governments can appropriate corporate databases.Information itself is useless without a means of retrieving and organising it. That's a task at which Google excels. So a deeper problem is not even the database, but the infrastructure to process it. Which is exactly what Google is building.There's no easy solution to this dilemma, as it's the sort of basic technology that can be used for good and evil. But it's another reason to be wary of surveillance engines.sethf.com/infothought/blog
Can I have a latte instead?An amazing marriage of technology, physics and chemistry: a cup you can drink from in microgravity. Usually, the fluid would float out - but this uses surface tension to keep it inside.William Gibson, I presumeThe Skyrails project at the University of New South Wales aims to provide visualisations of social networks. Here, it looks more like the "consensual hallucination" of Gibson's novel Neuromancer.Next, we'll explain it with pastaThis claymation short shows graphically why C programming isn't taught in this form at any level. Except YouTube.• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
There is a lot to love about Mirror's Edge. For a start, there is the refreshing focus on guile over guns. And it looks fantastic, too. The city setting is a bleached minimalist dream, shot through with flashes of colour. Cast as Faith, a parkour-style futuristic runner, your aim is to leap, crawl and speed across rooftops. But unlike traditional third-person platform games, Mirror's Edge uses a first person viewpoint, usually used on shooter games. Most of the time it works fantastically well, though fiddly controls are an issue - and players can expect to regularly plummet to their death. Get your flow right, though - leaping across two skyscrapers, ducking under a pipe before barging open a door and disarming the goon waiting inside - and Mirror's Edge becomes an exhilarating ride.
Microsoft surprised everyone by doing a U-turn when it announced that it would stop selling its OneCare subscription service next summer and start giving away new anti-malware software codenamed Morro, after a beach resort in Brazil.Microsoft reckons that less than half of all Windows users have up-to-date anti-malware protection, and many have no anti-malware software at all. This is particularly true in emerging markets - such as Brazil - where inexperienced users are still somewhat na&iuml;ve about the threats.In effect, Microsoft has decided that it's more important to try to protect these users than to make money in the developed world, though perhaps it wasn't making much money anyway. As McAfee, an anti-malware rival, commented, somewhat acerbically: "With OneCare's market share of less than 2%, we understand Microsoft's decision to shift attention to their core business."Morro is less, not moreOf course, Windows Live OneCare offers much more than anti-malware protection and a firewall. The service also includes computer management facilities such as tune-ups and hard drive backups both for standalone machines and for multiple PCs on home networks.Morro will offer much less: it's just anti-malware software, though how it will work with Microsoft's current - and also free - application Windows Defender is unclear. However, Amy Barzdukas at Microsoft says Morro will not be limited in functionality. It will use the same core technology and infrastructure as Forefront, which Microsoft sells to businesses. The business version of OneCare will also die."It's meant to be comprehensive enough to protect you against spyware, viruses, rootkits and Trojans," says Barzdukas. "We would of course continue to tell consumers to take additional steps, such as to use a firewall."But it won't include spam blocking, identity protection and other features you might find in security suites from Symantec, McAfee and other suppliers. "If people want to have a broader suite solution, that's OK with us," says Barzdukas. "We just want them to be protected, whether it's our solution or somebody else's."Perhaps the simplest way to protect consumers would be to include anti-malware software with the operating system, but that won't happen. Barzdukas stresses that Morro will not be part of Windows.Many users already get anti-malware software with the operating system because Symantec, McAfee and others pay manufacturers to distribute trial versions of their suites with new PCs. Microsoft can't be seen as competing unfairly against these paid-for suites by bundling free protection. It has already been hit with antitrust lawsuits for including Internet Explorer and Windows Media Player as part of the operating system, even though alternatives were readily available as free downloads.But Morro is still a work in progress. Barzdukas had to answer several of my questions by saying "that hasn't been decided yet". Morro looks increasingly like a pre-announcement, which will give rival vendors the chance to pitch their wares ahead of Morro's arrival "in the second half of 2009". But at the moment, they don't seem concerned. Both Symantec and McAfee put out statements to the effect that they've been in the business a long time, know more about security than Microsoft and have better products.Sleepless nightsTom Powledge of Symantec responded to the announcement by saying: "We urge consumers to bear in mind that Microsoft OneCare offered substandard protection and an inferior user experience, as evidenced by third-party reviews. Consumers are encouraged to thoughtfully consider how they'll protect themselves, their identities and their families online."But Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at Sophos in the UK, says: "I would expect McAfee and Symantec to have more than a few sleepless nights. Yes, there are other free antivirus products already out there, but Microsoft has a much stronger brand presence, so it may have more impact than an eastern European company my Auntie Hilda has never heard of."The problem is that relatively few people "thoughtfully consider how they'll protect themselves" online. Symantec and McAfee, "the two security hippopotamuses," have dominated the market for years and yet "still millions of home users were infected by malware, spyware and pop-ups each year," Cluley wrote onhis blog.It must be somewhat galling for Microsoft to have to spend time and money protecting an obsolete product, Windows XP, when it already offers a much more secure operating system in Vista. But as Symantec's chief scientist Guy Bunker points out, even Vista isn't impervious. "It will be a long time before people are educated enough not to install stuff that is going to get them infected."
It looks as though the BBC will be banned from introducing local online video services. An independent report commissioned by Ofcom, its regulator, says the service would have "a significant negative impact" on commercial providers. Well, that's that then. The BBC should not be allowed to do something that might have a "significant negative impact" on its rivals, should it? But what is the scale of this negative impact - 30% or 40% or more? No, the negative impact is reckoned to be 4%. Actually, it is "up to" 4% - so it could be as little as 3% or even 1%. Is the future of the BBC's local services to be decided by an amount so small it almost falls into the margin of statistical error?It is a principle that, if applied to the rest of the BBC, would mean it would never exist at all. Imagine if the BBC were just a website and suddenly announced plans to move into television. An independent assessment would probably find it could harm up to 25% of the commercial activities of incumbents. The same would be true if the BBC had been assessed before introducing its very successful web activities. They would simply not have happened and the synergetic competition between the BBC's website and others - including the Guardian's - would not have happened.For decades the economic model of a commercial sector selling advertisements and a publicly funded one that can't has worked very well and improved performance on all sides. There are times, such as now, when an economic downturn hits advertisements and gives the BBC a relative boost - and other times when the commercial sector is awash with advertising and cash. That is what should apply to local services. Video, through sites such YouTube, is becoming a critical conduit through which younger people learn about what is going on. For the BBC to be deprived of this at a local level is condemning it to compete with its hands tied behind its back and preventing it from doing what it ought to be doing to justify a national licence fee: providing a nationwide service.The argument that local BBC video will depress commercial activity could be turned on its head: the presence of the BBC in many areas covered by local newspaper monopolies may be just what they need to galvanise them out of complacency. I come into contact with local papers in London and Herefordshire. In London my local paper covering Paddington, Marylebone and Pimlico last had a video on its website more than three weeks ago. In the country example, there are two papers in neighbouring country towns owned by the same company. I can't find any videos at all. If I owned them, I would like to keep the BBC out too.We have been here before. Not long ago there were regional TV monopolies. One by one they were merged on the argument that only by doing this could they become a global force. Whatever happened to those ambitions? The only global media force - apart from the Murdoch empire, the Guardian and one or two smaller exceptions - is the BBC. The BBC is the most trusted media brand in the world. But instead of the government coming to the BBC and asking what it can do to help preserve this rare advantage, it chips away at its activities.This reached its barmiest when the usually highly respected Ofcom actually suggested that one way of dealing with criticism of the BBC's success in selling its programmes abroad (coming almost entirely from competitors) would be to hand much of the business over to a rival, Channel 4.At a time when the government is pouring billions of pounds into failed banks, it might be a good time to pay respect to a successful organisation. We don't have that many of them. This doesn't mean giving the BBC more money. It just means standing beside it rather than constantly wielding an axe.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Nominet's prioritiesThe articleUK net body faces split(November 20) included allegations of mismanagement by Nominet. We would like to make it clear that no formal allegations have been made against the board directors concerned and that any such allegations, informally made, are robustly denied.Our goal is to ensure that what is fundamentally a disagreement about Nominet's future does not overshadow or undermine the excellent work that is taking place in support of our members, customers and the wider internet community. We believe that while such disagreements happen, they should be dealt with in a professional, structured manner. We remain committed to ensuring Nominet is governed according to best practice principles and the upcoming governance review will help us to do that.Our priority remains: to ensure the smooth running of .uk and to deliver a secure, stable service to our members, registrars and customers.Lesley Cowley,chief executive, NominetRoad ahead for OSI wonder if the reason for the Ordnance Survey's obsession with preserving its copyright (OS move raises political stakes, November 20) is because a handful of managers dream of doing a QinetiQ: convince the government it would be far more efficient as a private concern; buy as many of the initially undervalued shares as possible and then watch them increase in value. All at the taxpayers' expense.Robin Benson,SouthamptonYou have to admire the consistency of the Ordnance Survey position - it has always been part of the problem rather than part of the solution. Not content with selling us data we used to own, it stands in the way of almost every advance in mapping.The answer is the same now as it has been for 20 years: ignore OS and do your own mapping.[name and address supplied]FT redesign is in the pinkI couldn't disagree more with Andrew Brown (Read me first, November 20). Font size and leading relate to cognition rather than knowledge and education: just because FT readers are clever doesn't mean they are capable of processing more information from a computer screen than your average Sun reader. Reducing the amount of content on a page, simplifying the layout and upping the leading and font sizes aid the comprehensibility of a text for everybody, even for people who went to Oxford. Older readers will be especially appreciative. And the way dyslexia is linked to being some sort of ignorant prole is, well, crass.Leon Paternoster,IpswichWhile nobody would describe the new look as beautiful, it isn't as bad as all that. [Brown] talks about point size and leading, which made me initially think this must be the rantings of a print dinosaur. However he then goes on to mention Wordpress templates and Rememberthemilk, so clearly he is no novice to the internet. The one tweak I would make to the Financial Times design would be the pink background. I understand it is an important element of the print branding, but I'd also like the site to be easy on the eye.currybet.netLocal censorship is OKCan't see anything wrong in principle with Australian plans to filter dodgy content (Fears over Australia's &pound;55m plan to censor the internet, November 20). Knee-jerk opposition to the principle of local censorship is the product of a puerile utopianism.Root Cartwright,RadlettHalf-baked letterIfagamisu.livejournal.com(Letters and blogs, November 20) can't sort wheat from crap, he/she shouldn't try home baking.Charlie Haigh,Milnthorpe• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk• Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
No. Speculation about the future of the national mapping agency - holder of one of the government's most valuable collections of digital data - arose in the run-up to Monday's pre-Budget report. The Sunday Times suggested Ordnance Survey was one of several state-owned businesses that would be privatised to help the chancellor balance the nation's red ink-filled books. But it was wrong.Instead, on Monday a small note in the report said the government "will shortly publish some key principles for the re-use of this [public sector] information... For the Ordnance Survey, this will involve consideration of its underlying business model. Further details will be announced in Budget 2009."That isn't a hint at privatisation; quite the opposite. Privatisation wouldn't change OS's business model, where it makes money from selling licences for its data; it would simply move it into the private sector (a move that the Free Our Data campaign opposes: a national geographic database is a core government responsibility). There is also a "strategic review" pledged which will "look into [OS's] role as a public sector information provider, together with providing value for money for taxpayers".We think the Free Our Data campaign, which argues that OS's data should be made available for free commercial re-use, is winning the argument. On Tuesday, the government published a long-awaited national strategy for geographical information, called Location Matters, which recognises that good geographical information is essential in everything from preventing floods to fighting crime to improving public services.The strategy makes a strong case for sharing geographical data freely across public bodies - an implicit criticism of decades of government encouraging its agencies to operate as independent businesses trading in data. The strategy has been a long time coming. It was originally due for publication "by July 2007" but was overtaken by a rapidly changing climate of opinion about government data policy. First, the European Commission Inspire directive - initially opposed by the UK - required governments to share information necessary for environmental protection. Second, the 2007 Power of Information Review called on the government to make data freely available for the knowledge economy, and set in train an inquiry into the wider cost of running agencies like Ordnance Survey as quasi-commercial "trading funds". Finally, the Free Our Data campaign, launched in spring 2006, may have had some influence.The Location Matters strategy has little to say on charging, or on the use of data by business or non-government organisations. But it is a very different strategy to the one envisaged three years ago; the wind is definitely blowing in our direction. We're looking forward to more details in Budget 2009.
$hf_mi$?I am alarmed at the amount of space on my Windows hard drive used by the $hf_mig$ folder. Can I safely delete this, please?Alan SimpsonJS:No, these are Windows updates and patches. You can, however, delete any folders that start with $NTUninstall. If you do, you will not be able to uninstall any updates that cause problems, but you're unlikely to want to uninstall anything that's more than a month old. You could also run CCleaner (ccleaner.com) to see if you can recover some wasted space. But if you have reached the stage where you're thinking about deleting hidden operating system files, it would be an even better idea to buy a new internal or external hard drive. You should always try to keep at least 1GB free on the C: drive.Replacing WindowsMy four-year-old PC recently started making lots of clicking noises and now the drive seems to have completely given up. Is there a way of transferring Windows on to my new drive?Mike SalmonJS:Ideally, you should be able to copy the disk image from your backup. If not, your PC manufacturer should have provided you with a backup copy of Windows on a small partition on the hard disk - which is now lost - and/or a recovery CD specific to your hardware. Your cheapest option is therefore to contact the PC manufacturer and ask for a CD: you may be able to do this by entering the model number at the company's website. However, PC makers vary in efficiency and most don't keep recovery CDs forever.Since you didn't buy Windows from Microsoft, it won't provide you with a recovery CD; it doesn't keep them, or even know what's on them. You can, of course, buy a new copy of Windows XP, but you will also need to reinstall your old programs and data.An alternative would be to install, for example, the Ubuntu version of Linux. That depends on the size of your investment in Windows software, whether you need to run programs that are not available for Linux, and whether you are willing to learn a whole new system.Free Mac AVDo you know of any free antivirus software for Mac OS X? ClamXav does not have real-time protection.Damian LinesJS:The only one I know of isiAntiVirus, which is a Mac version of the PC Tools software. This costs &pound;29.95, but there is a free version for non-commercial use. At the moment, of course, there is very little to protect against.Image protectionIt is disheartening to read how images shown on the internet can be taken and used by others. Is there a way of displaying images so that they cannot be downloaded?Bill PeirceJS:If the image is on your screen then it has already been downloaded, but you can try to stop users from saving it by, for example, disabling the right mouse-click or hiding it under an overlay.However, users can often get images from the browser cache, eg Temporary Internet Files, or grab them by using a screen capture program. Some sites discourage theft by overprinting images with their address.Some use digital watermarking (digitalwatermarkingalliance.org). Web crawlers can identify these watermarked photos, so the copyright owner can take action to try to stop unauthorised uses of their images.Network settingsI cannot shut down or re-start my Apple iBook. When I try, I get a message - "Your network settings have been changed by another application" - that I cannot get out of.Bob GallagherJS:The problem is quite widespread and seems to have been caused by an Apple security update, 2008-06.According to adiscussion thread on Apple's forum, you can solve the problem by removing four preference files (com.apple.airport.preferences.plist, NetworkInterfaces.plist, preferences.plist and com.apple.nat.plist) then letting Mac OS X recreate them.Photoshop replacement?I use Adobe Creative Suite 2 to create storyboards and illustrations on my PC. Is there a cheap or free illustration package for the Mac, as I don't much fancy shelling out again. I'm looking for one that offers layers, but it doesn't need to be monumentally sophisticated.Dan BiddleJS:Adobe offers PhotoShop Elements at a tenth of the price (about &pound;70). Cheaper alternatives includePixelmatorat $59 (&pound;38); the simpler Acorn (flyingmeat.com/acorn) at $49.95; and Gimp, the GNU Image Manipulation Program, which is free, but horrible (gimp.org/macintosh). You could also install Windows on the Mac and keep using CS2.BackchatIn response to last week's item on PC hibernation, CB Legge suggests using a PowerDown plug. This "automatically switches off your [desktop] computer and peripherals with just one click. It also provides whole surge protection. Plugs cost &pound;15 from E.On, but can be obtained free from some sites. Very green. Highly recommended." (eonshop.co.uk)• Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.ukguardian.co.uk/askjack
Britons are more relaxed about undergoing fingerprint or iris scans to verify their identity than their European neighbours, a survey of public attitudes has claimed. As many as 75% of UK citizens would be willing to submit to biometric checks when dealing with banks or the government, according to the study by Unisys, the technology company. Mounting concern about ID theft is, it appears, smoothing the way for popular acceptance of the technology.The survey suggests that civil liberty concerns about the security of public databases and the way they accumulate information on individuals are not widely shared. According to the survey, 75% of UK residents would be willing to allow banks, government agencies and other organisations to take their fingerprints to verify their identity. In France, 59% were willing to comply with a similar request. For Germany the figure was 62% and in Italy it was 63%.Meanwhile, the security of computers has slipped down the list of national concerns. Only 35% of UK residents said they were extremely or very concerned with the security of online transactions, by viruses or by unsolicited email. What most concerns people, says the twice-yearly Unisys Security Index report, is the potential misuse of debit or credit card information.The survey, based on a poll of 976 adults in the UK and a total of more than 12,000 people in 13 countries, gives an insight into attitudes to a variety of biometric technologies, including fingerprint scans, iris scans, facial recognition checks and systems that record the individual's unique pattern of blood vessels. There has been significant opposition to the introduction of biometric technology - led, in particular, by the civil liberties group NO2ID, which has raised concerns about the reliability of the technology as well as concerns that people could find themselves under pressure to supply biometric data such as fingerprints.Neil Fisher, of Unisys, says: "UK consumers are understandably becomingly increasingly concerned about the security of their personal information. Banks and government organisations need to do all that they can to protect UK consumers, but they need to consider the attitudes of their customers when implementing biometric and other security technologies as a means of protecting them."
The perennial tale about church fundraising is that it's to rebuild the steeple. But one church in Lichfield, Staffordshire, faced a different fundraising problem: to pay a &pound;6,000 bill demanded for photographs used on its website. The case came to the attention of Gavin Drake, the communications director for the diocese's 600 churches. In creating the church's website, a volunteer had included a couple of images sourced from Getty, a large picture agency, without paying for them. A couple of months later, Getty sent the church a demand for &pound;6,000."The issue is not that photographs are free on the net for anyone to use, but that enforcement has to be done properly. Getty was basically bullying," Drake says. A former freelance journalist, he adds: "I know the value of images."Offer declinedDrake told the church they'd been foolish. "I then tried to talk to Getty about it, and their policy was 'they're our pictures, we'll charge what we want to charge'. I worked through the process and pricing system and came up with a couple of hundred pounds. On behalf of the church, I offered Getty that amount if that was what they would commercially charge, and they declined and insisted they wanted the whole lot. I pointed out some recent court cases in which photographers' images had been used wilfully by national publications - over a period of time and many images. They had had to pay much less than this and therefore if they wished to take it to court they could explain why the images were worth it."After some back and forth, in which Getty offered to take half, Drake says: "In the end I said to the church that Getty was not playing ball or following the normal litigation or dispute resolution procedures and to ignore them. We don't deal with bullies; we deal with legal threats appropriately. I told them by letter that's what they were doing, that we were not going to play, and didn't hear any more." Drake now regularly reminds all churches to ensure that all the images they use are fully licensed.Dozens of small businesses and charities tell similar stories. On the online forums run by the Federation of Small Businesses, copyright infringement blows away every other subject. Many of those posting on the federation's forum have tried to do everything right; they aren't arguing about copyright. It's the enforcement tactics they find objectionable. Two years ago Brian Weir of Toucher Web Design received a letter from another picture agency, Corbis, via the law firm Baker &amp; McKenzie, accusing him of stealing a vector graphic and demanding &pound;2,400."It was the image of a shopping cart," he says. When the letter arrived, he removed the graphic and sourced a new one fromistockphoto.com(since bought by Getty) for less than $5 (&pound;3.30)."I really took fright when I saw it at first," he says. Besides the financial threat, there's the reputation damage: "I don't want to be associated with copyright theft, whether they're right or wrong." When negotiating failed, he didn't pay up; he's heard nothing further.Small organisations are the ones at risk. Large companies have in-house staff to design websites and check copyright status. Small ones may commission a volunteer or a cut-price designer, download a template, assume they have rights to images on a purchased CD or included with software, or thoughtlessly copy a small graphic.Letters demanding large sums are scary, and it's not surprising if many recipients settle. Those posting on the federation's forum say that requests for a breakdown of the charges or proof of ownership, or responses that the image came as part of a paid-for template, are all ignored.The virtual law firmLimeonehas dealt with more than 300 of Getty's infringement claims, plus some from Corbis, primarily for clients where the original source of the images is unclear. Says Janine Hughes of Limeone: "Once we get involved generally Getty does back off. I think the main problem Getty has is proving when images came into their possession. It's clear in some of our dealings with them that they have practical problems in establishing that. It's a massive problem for them with respect to evidence."Out of their depthSo far none of LimeOne's clients has been taken to court, not even the limited company that was asked for &pound;50,000 in damages. Hughes directs people to theCourt Service website, which lays out the rules for making intellectual property claims.Instead of issuing court proceedings Getty commonly sends in a debt collector. "They will turn up on the premises, and a lot of small businesses feel out of their depth," says Hughes.Corbis's senior counsel, Claire Keeley, says many infringements are reported by the photographers themselves. Some are found by the sales team. More are found via Digimark's digital watermarking and the spidering service Picscout. Keeley notes that one (unidentified) vendor Corbis works with nets a "small portion" of the recovered money.She says: "I would hope that people wouldn't be intimidated, but we have to walk a fine line - we have to make it clear that it's important and necessary." Ultimately, she adds: "My goal is to make my job obsolete. The ideal scenario is we have businesses properly licensing these images through sales channels." Alison Crombie of Getty says: "The thing we try to do is just have a conversation with the customer. We make them aware that it has happened and that they need to look at addressing it and making sure it's licensed. It goes into writing at the point when there's denial of use or people saying they didn't know."Most of the time, she says, "that gets resolved." As for the valuations, "we only send out our bills according to what average usage would cost". And, she says: "We do negotiate with people, if people genuinely make a mistake."Numbers 'not plausible'Despite Crombie's conviction that "whatever we're doing it definitely will be legal", it's uncertain whether sending in a debt collector, or the company's valuations, would stand up in court. Nicholas Bohm of the Law Society says: "It certainly isn't a debt in any legal analysis. You can't incur a debt unless you have consented to it. It makes them liable for damages, but it's not a debt." The amount, he says, "can only be quantified by agreement or by the judgement of a court".In the UK, he says, court awards "ought to be supposedly reflective of the claimant's loss." A lot depends on what the market rates are. "If they can get $10 a day for a licence for five years and people are actually paying them, then there is a genuine market out there and they have a basis for saying this is what it's worth." But, he says: "The numbers mentioned don't seem plausible to me."They don't seem plausible to photographer Tony Sleep (halftone.co.uk) either. "In the UK they'd struggle to make these amounts stick," he says. "UK law is only concerned with restoring the situation had licensing been correctly obtained. The courts don't like to be used as a means of extortion."Drake says: "I understand the difficulty companies like Getty have and photographers have - they have a product that needs to be protected. But where is the Getty publicity campaign? Why aren't they issuing press releases and education to remind people that these images are not to be used?"Media companies using the image library sites know the rules. "But it's not about media companies any more - it's kids, churches, schools." Getty, he says needs "to run a media campaign".
Last week, amid considerable fanfare, Microsoft released a new design for its Xbox 360 interface, allowing gamers to create their own avatars and browse content via a series of intuitive windows, rather than the drab "blade" menu system of old. It was all very exciting for five minutes - I've managed to create an online visual identity resembling a presenter on a late-night BBC4 arts programme, so I'm happy.But one of the quieter new additions to the Xbox universe could turn out to be much more important: the Community Games channel. Here, Xbox Live users can browse and buy a range of titles created by bedroom coders using Microsoft's XNA Studio - a cheap, but reasonably powerful, development package. Importantly, Microsoft plays little part in the approval of these games - instead, each project is reviewed and certified by community members.When a game is deemed suitable for distribution via Xbox Live, it's given ratings for violence, sex and, rather vaguely, mature content. Then it's up online for a potential audience of almost 25 million Xbox 360 users. A reasonable business model means the developers then get up to 70% of the revenue from each download, though Microsoft charges more when games are promoted on Live orXbox.com.There are already 20 games available, a mix of casual titles like Word Soup and Brain Party and retro-flavoured action romps, including frenzied twin-stick blasters Biology Battle and Weapon of Choice. The best at present is Blow by Vector2Games, a gentle puzzler where you direct bubbles toward the exit by carefully placing and angling a series of fans.There are also some weird experiments like Sin(Surfing), which allows you to surf along an oscilloscope wave, and In The Pit, an audio-only horror game in where you control a blind monster, locating human victims via the sound of their breathing. This, it goes without saying, would probably not make it through the approval system of most mainstream game publishers.All of these games were created using the newest version of XNA, which introduces an intriguing new feature - easy multiplatform development. In theory, users write one piece of source code, which is then automatically configured for Xbox 360, Windows Live PCs and Microsoft's Zune handheld. In this way, a lone coder or small studio can drastically increase the potential audience for a franchise with little addition to the workload.Add in the already well-established Flash game scene, and the growing Google Android platform (Android Market, unlike Apple's App Store, requires no official certification for applications) and you have a vast network of distribution channels, all operating beyond the control of the orthodox videogame business - or, if you, like The Man. The bedroom coder is dead, long live the bedroom publishing empire.
Europeana too big a hitThe EC's Europeana.eu website crashed on its first day under the weight of traffic. A more robust version will appear next month.Keep IT in the FamilyDigital Birmingham is running a project that encourages secondary school children to teach their elders computing.Dance Your PhD winnersThe results have been announced for the science-oriented 2009 Dance Your PhD contest, with videos.Wiggly Wigglers winnersAn English natural gardening mail-order company has won Dell's &pound;25,000 Global Small Business Excellence Award.Rule your own desert islandFaces.com is a social networking site where teens and young adults can colonise virtual islands. New to the UK, it started in Australia in 2004.Computing in cloudsIBM has announced a "Resilient Cloud" programme for companies that want to set up private clouds.Russians to get WiMax phoneHTC has developed a version of its Touch HD GSM mobile phone with built-in WiMax - but it will be exclusive to Scartel's Yota Mobile in Russia.Watts on WattsonA team of Royal College of Art graduates has launched Wattson (&pound;99.95), a wireless energy monitor.
Storm! What a cracking name for a smartphone. Marketing must have hugged themselves when they came up with that moniker. If only it lived up to it. But in truth RIM's BlackBerry Storm is not so much a storm, more of a squall.Here's why. Being a phone these days is pretty straightforward. You do phone calls. You throw in lots of things like clocks, cameras, music-playing capability (though barely anyone uses it) and especially contacts and calendars. That's a phone.For a smartphone, though, you need to go further: email, web browsing, integrated applications such as maps, and dedicated applications for things like Flickr and Facebook and Twitter. All the other stuff - phone calls, cameras, music, video playback - is taken as read.The BlackBerry Storm has all these. Well, sort of - you have to install the applications such as Flickr and Facebook yourself. As it doesn't have Wi-Fi, you'll be doing this on your data allocation. (That's 500MB per month on Vodafone's "unlimited" plan for the Storm, at &pound;35 per month. How does "unlimited" equate to "500MB"?)And this is as good a point as any to discover that it's all about the interface. The Storm has a touchscreen. Actually, no - it has a "prod" screen. When you touch a point, it's highlighted. But to select it, you have to prod the screen - which clicks on a rocker. (You can't put it on a table; the rocking makes it impossible to use.) You can get used to it, but compared to the iPhone's touch-sensitive screen, it's awful. Why should I have to prod a touchscreen? It's senseless.I spent quite some time trying to find any aspect of the Storm that was better than the iPhone. The lack of Wi-Fi is a serious omission. Magnification? It's only one prod to magnify the Storm's screen, against the iPhone's two-finger pull. Maybe better - unless your prod is on a hyperlink, which perplexed it. The virtual keyboard (which rotates with the phone, like the iPhone's) is the BlackBerry Pearl's "two letters per key" style, not the standard Qwerty. Some people swear by it; I swear at it. Camera? It has more pixels than the iPhone, but the shutter lag made it unusable. It does take video; the iPhone doesn't. Huzzah.The interface, though, is just a mess. The "scroll" doesn't move smoothly; it's stiff, as though it needs oiling. The installation procedure for applications is remarkably annoying: you scroll through miles of legalese, download the application (on your data plan - count those megabytes), and then you're left back at the place where you just agreed to the download. Plus you have to hunt for the new application.Some people say "it's corporate! It's not an iPhone!" This seems to me to be the "Survivors" argument: if it were the only smartphone in the world, you'd love it. However, it's not, by a long chalk. There are better products out there - some from RIM itself, such as the BlackBerry Bold. As BoingBoing put it: "iPhone killer? It's not even a BlackBerry killer."Pros:BlackBerry email integration; video capabilityCons:'Prod' screen; bad install experience; bad user interfaceblackberry.com/storm
A woman accused of creating a fictitious persona on MySpace to bully a 13-year-old neighbour who then took her own life, was acquitted yesterday on the most serious charge that she had accessed a computer without authorisation in order to inflict emotional distress.But Lori Drew, 49, was convicted on three lesser misdemeanour crimes of accessing a computer without authorisation. She faces up to one year in prison and a fine of $100,000 (&pound;65,233) for each charge.The trial, thought to be the first one for cyber-bullying in the US, stemmed from the 2006 suicide of Megan Meier, 13, at her home in the St Louis suburb of Dardenne Prairie, Missouri. Megan hanged herself after receiving a message on MySpace from a boy she had befriended named Josh Evans. But Evans was a fake, created by Drew, her daughter Sarah, 13, and Ashley Grills, 18, one of Drew's employees.Calling the outcome "a compromise verdict", Drew's lawyer Dean Steward said: "The US attorney's office never should have brought this case, and I think that was the message from the jury."The message at the root of the case was sent by Megan to Grills. In it, she suggested that Drew's daughter was ugly and a lesbian.Angered that Megan had been "spreading lies" about her daughter, and eager to "expose" her, Lori Drew together with Grills and Drew's daughter concocted a plan to humiliate Megan and to find out what else she was saying online.They came up with 16-year-old "Josh Evans", who had recently moved to the area. They created a MySpace profile for the fictitious boy, and even included a picture of the tousle-haired "Evans" posing bare-chested. Megan, a young, impressionable girl prone to depression, was hooked.The two began to exchange messages. At one point, said Grills, Drew suggested arranging for the boy to meet Megan at a local shopping mall. Grills, Drew and her daughter Sarah would then "pop out" and tease Megan.But what may have started as a prank soon turned sinister. Possibly motivated by a desire to end the deception, Grills sent Megan a final message from Josh on October 16 2006. It told her that "the world would be a better place without you" and urged her to "have a [lousy] rest of your life". Megan's response was poignant in the extreme. "You are the kind of boy a girl would kill herself over," she allegedly wrote. Shortly afterwards, she hanged herself.Prosecutors sought to portray Drew, whose daughter had been a classmate of Megan and who lived nearby, as the mastermind of the plot."The defendant knew that she was dealing with a troubled little girl who was extremely fragile, and yet she did it anyway," prosecutor Mark Krause told the court. "It went beyond a simple prank to get her so hooked on this young man that she would be crushed when she found out he didn't exist."Megan's mother, Tina, testified that her daughter was taking medication for depression and had tried to take her life before.Krause argued that Drew bragged about the scheme, and continued to talk about her involvement after Megan's death. He cited the testimony of hairdresser Dawn Chu, who told the court that Drew had come into her salon on the day of Megan's wake. When Chu asked her why she was going to the wake given the allegations against her, Drew said: "It's not like I pulled the trigger."Thomas O'Brien, the prosecutor in Los Angeles who brought the case after prosecutors in Missouri decided there was no law under which Drew could be charged in her home state, pursued the theme of Drew's disregard for Megan in presenting his closing argument before the jury."Folks, that's Josh Evans right there," O'Brien told the court. "Lori Drew decided to humiliate a child. The only way she could harm this pretty little girl was with a computer." But the defence attempted to bring jurors' minds back to the legal basis for the prosecution."If you hadn't heard the indictment read to you, you'd think this was a homicide case," Steward said. "And it's not a homicide case. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a computer case, and that's what you need to decide."Drew was charged under the computer use and fraud act with one count of conspiracy and three counts of accessing computers without authorisation. The act is typically used to prosecute hacking or trademark theft cases. But prosecutors decided to charge Drew on the basis that she had violated the terms of MySpace's user agreement, which prohibits the use of false names, the harassment of other users and the soliciting of personal information from minors.But some observers are concerned that application of the case to an instance of cyber-bullying could have broad ramifications, leaving whistle-blowers, for example, open to prosecution for violating online terms of service.The concern that the law could be applied too broadly and harm those it is intended to protect was voiced by Steward."Nobody reads these things, nobody," he said. "How can you violate something when you haven't even read it? End of case. The case is over."
In 1990 I went to the headquarters of a cable company in London. You might imagine that it was a gleaming temple to the new age of superfast broadband (a word that in those days was barely used outside laboratories). Instead it was a poky set of rented rooms up the top of some crumbling stairs in a Soho building. Being a cable company in the 1990s was a shortcut to bankruptcy: it cost so much to dig up the roads to install the fibre-optic cable, and then to hire staff to persuade customers to sign up to the services (in those days, just TV and phone; there was no internet), that most companies simply keeled over from debt. Thus the cable business contracted from dozens of operators to a handful, and then to one - NTL - which still struggled with its debts, and was reversed into by Virgin Media.The lesson: cable is very expensive to install. Which is why although I'm entirely convinced of the benefits of installing fibre to the home (usually abbreviated as FTTH), which can offer breathtaking speeds in the order of 100 megabits per second in both directions at once, I'm extremely doubtful that we're going to get it in the UK in a hurry.Let's just discuss the benefits for a moment. Joeri Van Bogaert, president of the FTTH Council, a lobbying group funded by telecoms manufacturers (but explicitly not telecoms companies), notes that if you introduce high-speed links, suddenly all sorts of connections become possible: video from local services streamed directly, high-speed real-time backups (100Mbps is twice as fast as USB 2.0), real-time high-quality interactive multiplayer games and so on.Here's the problem, though: how to pay for it. You may have noticed that there's a bit of a squeeze on credit and debt at the moment. Basically, if you're a company and want to make a big capital investment and up your labour costs, you'll have to pay for it out of your free cashflow - that stuff that your shareholders, who've been seeing all their other investments shrink, would like to have in dividends.Van Bogaert says that studies in Holland have shown it costs between &euro;750 (&pound;636) and &euro;1,100 to build fibre past a home. The low number is for those in urban areas; the higher one, for those in rural areas. That sounds promising, but you have to remember that that cost (involving digging, pulling fibre and connecting the fibre into the wall of the house) has to be done for every house in a street, regardless of whether those homes sign up to your spiffy new FTTH service or not.And the statistics from the past cable boom aren't great: by the end of 1990 almost 15m homes were included in "franchised" areas - where one cable company had been guaranteed a monopoly. But only 828,000 had been passed by cable, and only 149,000 were actually subscribing. In other words, two in every 11 homes passed.Now, FTTH will be an easier sell than cable was. But even if you get half of people to subscribe, then in effect they have to pay for the homes that get passed but don't sign up - between &euro;1,500 and &euro;2,200 over the life of the investment. And for most companies, that will have to be recouped over five years or so, because nowadays you can't get credit - or sell debt, in the form of commercial paper - as easily as you once could. That will push the prices of FTTH connections significantly higher than for ADSL, whose infrastructure is already there and paid for.BT, which already has a big capital spend on its 21CN project to upgrade the core of its network, isn't going to rush to build fibre. And our government can't fund it. We may have to start fibre-laying parties. Got your spade ready?
Hypermiling has been selected as theOxford Word of the Year 2008, or WOTY, according to the New Oxford American Dictionary's blog. It says the word was coined in 2004 by Wayne Gerdes, to mean the "attempting to maximize gas mileage by making fuel-conserving adjustments to one's car and one's driving techniques."Many will be sad to hear thatrickrollingdidn't even make the shortlist, but at least it's better than the Americans managed last year, which waslocavore.The technology industries did manage to get three words on this year's shortlist:tweet,linkbaitand one I've never heard of:CarrotMobor carrot mob:a flashmob type of gathering, in which people are invited via the Net to all support and reward a local small ethical business such as a shop or café by all patronizing it at the same time. Also as noun, carrotmobbing.We could also claim one of the finalists: "moofer-- a mobile out of office worker -- ie someone who works away from a fixed workplace, via Blackberry/laptop/wi-fi etc. (also verbal noun, moofing)"Previous "Words of the Year"include bovvered (2006), biosecurity (2005), chav (2004), karaoke (1979), bikini (1947), T-shirt (1920), camouflage (1917) and muckraking (1906). However, it looks as though these were selected with the benefit of hindsight by Susie Dent for a book, The Language Report.Anyway, was hypermiling the best choice, and if not, what should have won? Your suggestions please….Update: As goweb points out in a comment, The Register is letting youVote now for your top net neologism
Episode three: full of sand and furries — signifying nothing"In a flaming crash / Like a falling star / Heading straight for the dive / Gonna make some cash / With the avatar..."— Duran Duran, Zoom InGosh, what an epic week of news. If rumours of a2.5% VAT cut, or allegations that a TV chef washaving an affair, or a man in Scotland being jailed for three months forsingingthe Spiderpig song at a policeman, weren't enough to make your brain explode, then came the earth-shattering news that Reuters has — hold on to your hats —pulledits reporter out of Second Life.I know what you're thinking, and you're right — as news weeks go, it knocks that one in 1997 when Princess Diana and Mother Theresa died two days apart into a cocked hat.I mean, Jesus,Second Life? The only thing in any way surprising about this news is that a major news organisation kept a full time reporter in there this long. What the hell did "Eric Reuters" do all day?Wandering around Second Life today is like visiting Blackpool in February; all sad empty shops, deserted car parks and the stench of loneliness — and the opportunity to buy a fake cock for two quid. Occasionally — very occasionally — you'll chance upon another depressed lump of sub-humanity, wandering aimlessly and wondering what wrong junction they had taken off the M6 motorway of their life to end up somewhere so desolate. At least Blackpool has Cannon and Ball — Second Life couldn't even book the wife out of the Krankies (I mention that just so you'll imagine the Krankies having sex. And again.)Presumably Reuters had to make the decision to withdraw because they could no longer guarantee their reporter's sanity. Certainly Second Life today is a one way ticket to depression-town. Which is why I feel the need to admit to something: its demise is all my fault.Less than two years ago — the start of 2007 — Second Life was booming. Barely a day passed without some big name unveiling a ludicrously ambitious virtual presence. Starwood built an entire hotel to promote its new "aloft" boutique hotels; American Apparel opened a store selling virtual clothes; Jimmy Carr did a "live" stand-up set; Suzanne Vega, Jay Z, Ben Folds and Duran Duran performed gigs — in fact, Duran Duran wrote an entire song, Zoom In, about the experience. It included the lines... "Na na na na na na / I know you know / I don't want you to go / Na na na na na na / I'm zooming in and out on you", a fact I only mention to underline how ridiculous Duran Duran lyrics look written down. Mainsteam media started to pay attention too, with episodes of The Office and CSI:NY featuring major characters using Second Life. New users were signing up in their millions in the hope of being able to punch Gary Sinise in his virtual face.And then came the call. It was an editor from Boxtree wondering whether I'd be interested in co-authoring a book about Second Life. The Unofficial Tourist's Guide To Second Life, it would be called — a travel book exploring the weird and wonderful sights the metaverse had to offer. "But I hate Second Life," I started to protest. "In fact, I hate all virtual worlds aimed at grown-ups. They're just videogames with terrible usability and anyone who thinks they can do actual business there is delusional. I mean, have you seen the people who use these things? Fat American adulterers to a man. They don't leave the house, let alone stay in boutique hotels..." That's what I started to say — but I knew I was being unfairly hasty. "How much?"  I asked.The book came out in mid-2007 and in the intervening months, like a tsunami of sanity, the the whole world has come to its senses.  Marketing departments have stopped spending money building virtual stores that no one will ever visit; the company's CEO Philip Rosedale has stepped down to concentrate on his career as a professionalZe Franklook-alike (Google Image Search:Ze Frank;Rosedale) and now Eric "Reuters" Krangel has abandoned his post saying that "the buzz is gone".Coincidence? I'd like to say yes, but I can't. You see, and here — for the sake of Rosedale and Krangel and all of the fat American adulterers who, if Second Life continues to wither, will soon have to be winched out of their houses for the first time in years — is what I wish I'd told Boxtree when they called: my keyboard is cursed. The very moment I write about something, its fate is sealed. Consider the evidence: Second Life? A ghost town. Almost all of the sites listed in my series of web guide books, published days before the web 1.0 crash? Dead. The business plans for all of the companies I've started and subsequently been fired from? The list reads like a Little Book Of Trainwrecks.At the start of 2007 Orion commissioned me to write a memoir about my life as a successful dot com entrepreneur; by the end of that year, when I filed the manuscript, I was unemployed, broke and had been dumped in spectacular — and public — style by not one but two girlfriends. Then there's this column.Week one: how much I wish the UK had a Valleywag. The following day? Nick Denton decides to close Valleywag. If I were Jerry Yang, I'd be giving owls a wide berth afterlast week's instalment.But Second Life is the last straw. No more innocent victims of my keyboard curse. From now on, I'm only going to use my powers for good — writing only about people, companies and things that I actually want bad things to happen to. And that's why for next week's column, myself and Jodie Marsh will be flying to Austria to interview Josef Frizel about his hopes of becoming a Scientologist and his upcoming appearance on I'm A Celebrity, Get Me Out Of Here (sponsored by Angus Steak House).I'm available for private commissions, too. Tana Ramsay — you've got my mobile.Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atbringingnothing.com. His Unofficial Tourist Guide To Second Life is available in all good pound shops.
Xbox 360 is three years old. It's also in more homes than its predecessor -according to MCV, the 25 million mark was hit earlier this month, and healthy sales are expected for the remainder of the year thanks to price cuts and the promotional activity surrounding NXE. Exciting stuff.So let's say you were commissioned to film a documentary about the rise of one 'next-gen' console. Which would you choose? I'm not talking about which is the best machine - yawn. I'm thinking of which has had the most news-worthy and intriguing few years. I think Xbox 360 is the obvious option.Sure the Wii Story would have some great early scenes of Nintendo R&amp;D staff crafting the unique controller - I envisage a comedy montage of Wii Remotes flying from the hands of puzzled men in white coats until someone has a eureka moment and adds the wrist strap. There would be fantastic stuff from the console's premier at the 2005 Tokyo Game Show (a collective 'eh?' from the world's assembled press) and again from the pre-E3 2006 name announcement (a collective 'EH?!' from the world's assembled press). But after that, it's all been plain sailing, with the odd hardware shortage.Same story with PS3. The juicy stuff would all be early in the plot: the legal battle with Immersion corp, the incredible disappearing HDMI and ethernet ports, the problems with Cell and Blu-ray production... You'd get some pathos from the lost GTA and Tekken exclusives, and a touching moment when Folding@Home becomes the biggest distributed computing project in history, but after that it's all, "hey, we're not doing so well in Japan!", then a gradual rise to success and possible world domination. Again!Xbox 360 on the other hand is a non-stop rollercoaster ride. It has, of course, possibly the greatest, most complex malfunctioning hardware story since the Apollo space missions.Rigorously documentedby Dean Takahashi ofVentureBeat, the Red Ring of Death scandal is a viper's nest of intrigue, rushed decisions, implausible denials and millions of dollars in repairs and replacements.At the helm you had Peter Moore, a man wholivedthe console wars. Viewers could revel in his face-offs with Phil Harrison and Ken Kutaragi and thrill to his epic marketing experiments. Forget documentaries, this is movie material - I'm thinking Gary Oldman as Moore:Scene 12: Int, Microsoft boardroom:Oldman:The only way to launch this machine is with an MTV Special - and to present it, I want the best, I want a megastar who'll speak to every hardcore gamer in the land. That's right - someone get me Elijah Wood!Actor playing Xbox exec:Elijah who?Oldman:Fxxk you! I'll destroy you like I destroyed Dreamcast!Actor playing Xbox exec:I think I have his agent's number right here.There's also the Fox News/Mass Effect affair. The rise of Halo and Bioshock. The heartbreakingly unsuccessful attempts to attract the family gaming market ("I got it, what about a game with piñatas, except you don't smash them with sticks, you look after them!"). It's all there.What doyouthink?IMPORTANT NOTE: this is about each console's background story - i.e. which would make the most interesting documentary. It's not about the qualities of the machines themselves!
Here are a few of the links we didn't write about this week, but thought were noteworthy nonetheless:• The Ten Most Offensive Videogames - allegedly &gt;&gt;mediafamily.org• My Game Face &gt;&gt;nytimes.com• My Dinner With Halpin &gt;&gt;crispygamer.com• Steam gives away GTA Vice City &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• Some Video Gamers Leery of Obama's Views &gt;&gt;nytimes.com• Obama's game debut in Super Obama World &gt;&gt;casualgaming.bizfromdelicious
I was away yesterday so missed the news thatgames released for the Wii tend to be reduced in price fasterthan those for the 360 or PS3. Surprised? You shouldn't be. The amount of – let's face it – rubbish released for the Wii each week is getting a little embarrassing.  I'm all for expanding the market but will Party Game Horse Quiz vol 4 really appeal to the mass of Wii owners more than happy with Wii Sports, Play and Fit? Yes gems do sneak through – Cooking Mama etc – but they are increasingly submerged by a tidal wave of Wii games that would have barely made it onto PC budget 12 months ago.The study argues that casual games tend to get released haphazardly, unlike the more structured releases for core games, and so see reduced sales:Aside from the often congested holiday release schedule, most publishers typically avoid releasing their big triple-A core targeted titles against other triple-A titles, whereas it is common to see many mainstream/casual titles, targeting similar markets, released in the same week.Makes sense but I'd be interested to see if the price reduction hits casual games for the 360 and PS3 – and yes, there area few– as quickly as the Wii version. Anyway, Wii games fastest to bargain bin – surprised or does it confirm your suspicions?
