'China bashing' has been one of the most popular sports at the Olympic talkathon, otherwise known as the UN's Internet Governance Forum, ongoing in Athens.The communist state stands accused of censoring search engines and persecuting bloggers such as Shi Tao, who was jailed for 10 years after using his Yahoo! account to email a US-based website about the government's attempt to control media coverage of the anniversary of the Tiananmen Square crackdown.I tried to give China the right to reply by approaching Hu Qiheng, chairwoman of the Internet Society of China, for a full and frank interview in this Sunday's Observer.Can we discuss openness? 'I don't want to talk about that,' she said. 'It's outside our remit.'And with that she turned heel and fled into the crowd.Later, I'm told, she said in a workshop discussion that all governments need ethical starting points from which to regulate the net. Asked why the UN's declaration of human rights, including the right to freedom of speech, would not do, she simply smiled and nodded and said she'd prefer to hear everybody else's views.
"How comfortable is the UK ad industry that Google is so all-powerful when it comes to digital advertising?" asks theGuardian Media blog. It's making more than Channel 4....
Some of the comments about the JotSpot takeover seem to float the idea that this is part of Google's plan to build an online Office-style application, which may well be true. But if so, it suggests Google does not have much of a clue, because if that was the plan, it should have bought something likeZimbrainstead.By buying Zimbra, Google could also have skipped buying Writely, and saved itself a bunch of work, because Zimbra is open whereas Writely is proprietary (built on Microsoft.net).Zimbra is a Web based application that, to quote its blurb, does "email, group calendaring, contacts, and web document management and authoring. The Zimbra server is available for Linux, Mac OS X, appliances, and virtualization platforms. The Zimbra Web 2.0 Ajax client runs on Firefox, Safari, and IE, and features easy integration / mash-ups of web portals, business applications, and VoIP using web services.In other words, you get something like Microsoft Outlook plus iCal plus Writely in one hit. You also get "over the air sync to mobile devices".Although JotSpot is a great wiki and looks really nice, it doesn't actually do much. AsZoli Erdos points out(under JotSpot, the "hybrid" wiki), "Just because a page looks like an application, it does not mean it really is:"Try to import an Excel spreadsheet into a Jot Spreadsheet page, you'll get a warning that it does not import formulas. Well, I'm sorry, but what else is there in a spreadsheet but formulas? The previous name, Tracker was fair: it's a table where you track lists, but not a spreadsheet.Look at a Calendar page: it does not have any functionality. You cannot do group schedules, can't even differentiate between personal and group events. It's just a table that looks like a Calendar -- reminding me the "electronic" calendars of corporate executives in the 90's: the Word template that your secretary maintained for you and printed daily...Now I find it impossible to believe that Google doesn't know this. Google has lots of smart guys, and it has a ton of money. On the other hand, there's that very worrying characteristic of the whole Web 2.0/blogosphere thing, which is thatthe appearance is the reality. And it's true, it is -- if you have the attention span of a gnat.If you're building an empire that actually needs stuff to work properly for a couple or three decades, however, then it makes sense to pay attention to the foundations, rather than the paint job. Outside search, there's worryingly little evidence that Google is doing that.
Sega has officially announced its first selection of downloadable retro treats for the Wii Virtual Console. Just in case you've been living in Nintendo denial for several months, the Virtual Console is Wii's answer to the Xbox Live Arcade, a download area where players will be able to buy conversions of classic titles from the likes of Nintendo, Sega and Hudson.Although seven of the nine titles wereleakedsix weeks ago, there are two newcomers...Sonic the Hedgehog is on there of course as are perennial scrolling hack-'em-up favourites Altered Beast and Golden Axe. The Virtual Console answer to Live Arcade's hardcore shooter component (i.e. Mutant Storm and Geometry Wars) is Treasure's beloved Gunstar Heroes. And for puzzle fans, there's the Tetris-clone Columns and Dr. Robotnik's Mean Bean Machine. Space Harrier has crept in there too.Finally my two favourites - Ecco the Dolphin and daft musical adventure title Toe Jam and Earl.On the subject of retro downloads, I finally got round to purchasing Scramble on Live last night. Anyone else got it? I haven't played the game for twenty years and found it much more difficult than I remebered - especially the tiny circular craft that buzz through the cave sections. I blame it on my low-res TV and certainly not on any loss of reaction speed.
As unbelievable as it may sound, the British "libertarian" partyUKIPhas set up an office in the virtual world Second Life.It just goes to show that while David Cameron is abusing the online community with his fake, scripted 'webcameron' posts, UKIP, as you would expect is rolling up its sleeves and engaging directly with the online community.explains the (er, confrontational...) blurb ontheir blog.The move, by a member of the "unofficial support group" UKIPHome, isn't exactly as groundbreaking as it may sound. Their affiliation with the party is like a fan club is to a film franchise. However, it suggests that public action groups are interested inmetaversesand, as thepress releasesays, it recognises "the need for small political parties to innovate in order to compete with the budgets of the big three political parties."In other virtual world political news, three Dutch elected officals are planning a visit to Second Life on Friday to drum up support for the country's elections on 22 November.All of this via the superbNWN.
With the Wii only a few short weeks away Nintendo have announced that 31 Virtual Console games will be available to download to the console in December. The games are available from the Wii's Shop channel - assuming you get your Wii online, of course - and include "classic" Nintendo and Sega games. Yet another chance to fleece loyal fans? Possibly, but if you don't yet own Super Mario 64 then this is a good time to finally get on board. As Keith discusses there is some interesting Sega stuff.Games are bought with Wii points - Live owners will be familiar with this concept - with NES games costing 500 Wii Points (approximately €5), Super NES 800 Wii Points (approximately €8) and N64 games 1000 Wii Points, (approximately €10). The Mega Drive stuff will be available for 800 Wii points while PC Engine games will be available for 600 Wii points. Pretty cheap then, but after getting burnt with Gauntlet on Live I'll be more cautious with my nostalgia purchases this time. Perhaps more importantly there is no news whether the games have been updated or offer anything new. The gamerpoints system on Live at least offers an incentive to replay old titles.The full list of titles available this December is...Virtual Console games available in December 2006NESBaseball, Donkey Kong, Donkey Kong Jr., Ice Hockey, Mario Bros., Pinball, Soccer, Solomon's Key (Tecmo), Tennis, The Legend of Zelda, Urban Champion, Wario's WoodsSNESDonkey Kong Country, F-Zero, SimCityN64Super Mario 64SEGA MEGA DRIVESonic the Hedgehog, Altered Beast, Golden Axe, Columns, Gunstar Heroes, Ecco the Dolphin, Space Harrier II, Toe Jam &amp; Earl, Ristar, Dr. Robotonik's Mean Bean MachineTurbografx (PC Engine)Bonk's Adventure, Super Star Soldier, Victory Run, Bomberman'93, Dungeon Explorer
Microsoft stepped up its crack-down on software pirates yesterday, launching a medley of legal actions against counterfeiters across the world.The Seattle-based computer company has targeted 55 individuals and businesses, including five based in Britain. The company said it was focusing on alleged pirates who had been using eBay and other auction websites to sell their illegal copies of Microsoft's Windows programs."This shows that the dynamics are really changing in the world of counterfeit trade," said Michala Alexander, head of anti-piracy at Microsoft UK. "Just look at the auction sites - all you need is a user name and then you can buy from anywhere in the world."The targets are all alleged to be high-quality counterfeiters who often charge prices that approach those available in shops. Microsoft claims many of them have already faced warnings and sanctions from eBay and software houses, and Ms Alexander said they would all be considered "fairly reasonable-sized operations".The monolithic software firm, which last year posted revenues of $40bn (&pound;21bn), has already taken a string of court actions against pirates in the UK. Last year one company, Zoobon, faced a &pound;12m lawsuit after it was found to have made &pound;3m from selling thousands of high-quality copies of Microsoft programs over the internet.An out-of-court settlement with the Mancunian company resulted in its closure, but one of the latest cases is believed to be against an individual who was among Zoobon's biggest customers.Other actions are being taken in countries including Germany, France and the Netherlands. Fifteen more cases are being taken against alleged counterfeiters in the US. But although Microsoft estimates that it has lost around &pound;250m in sales in the UK alone to criminals, Britain is actually among the world's least-pirated markets.Figures often vary wildly and are disputed by many, but one survey this year suggested that Britain had a 27% piracy rate. This is higher than the US, but lower than mainland Europe - where it can sometimes stretch to 45%.Though the latest set of cases targets western counterfeiters, the problem is considered to be more prevalent in developing economies such as China. Street markets in Shanghai are notorious for harbouring pirates who sell expensive programs for tiny amounts of money.Microsoft has been making a concerted effort to inhibit the actions of known pirates ahead of the arrival next year of its new operating system, Windows Vista. That launch - which has been delayed several times - is likely to be accompanied by a flurry of illegal activity as pirates look to cash in on the change.Officials insist counterfeits are undesirable because they are often laced with malicious software that creates security risks, as well as for the economic damage they inflict on legitimate sales outlets."Customers need to be really careful when buying software online," said Ms Alexander. "Half of the sales that go through auction sites are legitimate, but the other half, according to our research, have problems. It seems crazy that we're opening up our PCs in order to save a couple of quid."
Great news for old C64 veterans who just cannot let go. Someone is working on an indie re-make of classic Marble Madness-alike, Spindizzy. The lone coder, whoposted his planson the forum of Retroremakes.com aims to release his project in open source for Linux, Windows and MacOS X. He promises to finish by February 2007.Originally released in 1986 by Electric Dreams, the game was a totally enthralling mixture of exploration, inertia and perfect, figurative visuals. Yeah, okay, you could download the original ROM or something, but that's naughty and this new version will come with a level editor. Here's theoriginal Zzap64 review!
I wasquite impressed with JotSpottwo years ago, as it brought a new Microsoft Word-style richness to the wiki format. Well, "We're Googlers now," saysJotBlog, the JotSpot team's blog.This takeover might be considered slightly surprising, in that Yahoo had been rumoured as the most likely suitor for the small company, and Microsoft might have been a better fit. However, Google is buying a lot of companies, and from that point of view, it's not a surprise to see JotSpot added to Blogger, Picasa, Keyhole, Writely etc and, most recently, YouTube.The company most likely to be affected is Ross Mayfield's Socialtext, which now sees a small competitor get a huge backer. Mayfield's response has been to offer torescue JotSpot usersby migrating their stuff from proprietary JotSpot to his open Socialtext Professional."Our experience has been that JotSpot customers convert to Socialtext when they realize they need a real business-class wiki," said Socialtext CEO Ross Mayfield. "We have been gaining customers since they discontinued their Appliance offering. We hear a high degree of uncertainty from users faced with a potential lag in innovation and unclear integration strategy with Google. Socialtext is ready to support you and your business during this critical time."The Google groupies will flap around the takeover as usual, like so many Spice Girls fans. But in the short term, JotSpot is just another component in Google's disjointed collection of incompatible online applications. It remains to be seen what it will do with it.It will be particularly interesting if Google attempts to put together something that can compete with Socialtext and Microsoft's Sharepoint Server, because that could be an entry point to a business market where Google has so far failed to make any impact.
Over at theBoing Boing blog:Matthias sez, "This script package takes an Apple-DRM-protected song (.m4p), and converts it *using iMovieHD* into an unprotected .mp3 file. I've tried this with six songs now and it works great, though you have to be careful to not actually, like, do anything else with your computer while it's running as it tends to make the script throw up and die. So you might want to run it overnight if you've got a lot of protected files to free from your Apple shackles. Does this mean Apple will be forced to file a DMCA C&amp;D against the publishers of iMovie?" I've done this with regular iMovie before and it worked pretty well.
Put on the spot, Microsoft has admitted there could come a moment when it has to consider pulling out of China and other repressive regimes.The corp everyone loves to hate has been criticised by groups including Amnesty International for colluding with the Chinese government by removing politically sensitive blogs on the orders of Beijing.But at the Internet Governance Forum (see earlier post) in Athens, Fred Tipson, senior policy counsel at Microsoft, conceded the situation was under constant review.'We have to decide if the persecuting of bloggers reaches a point that it's unacceptable to do business there,' he told a workshop on free expression tonight. 'We try to define those levels and the trends are not good there at the moment. It's a moving target.'He added: 'Every government in the world is now passing regulations that if you want to do business in their country you have to hand over personal information when they want it. We may decide that's a tipping point for us. That's under active discussion with us. What's the point when we can no longer do business in a country?'But for now: 'We believe Chinese customers are better off with our service, Google's service, Yahoo!'s service, than without.'Julien Pain of Reporters Without Borders was having none of it: 'When I hear you saying you go for the beneft of Chinese users... you could be honest and say you go there to do business.'Freedom of speech online, or the lack of it, was the dominant subject at day two of the IGF. Amnesty put it most simply: as a universal, non-negotiable human right.
Microsoft stepped up its campaign to crack down on software pirates today, launching a medley of legal actions against counterfeiters across the world.The Seattle-based computer giant has targeted 55 individuals and businesses around the globe, including five based in Britain, in an attempt to turn back the tide of software piracy. The company said it was focusing on known pirates who had been using eBay and other auction websites to sell their illegal copies of Microsoft's Windows programs."This shows that the dynamics are really changing in the world of counterfeit trade," said Michala Alexander, head of anti-piracy at Microsoft UK. "Just look at the auction sites - all you need is a user name and then you can buy from anywhere in the world."The targets are all believed to be high quality counterfeiters who often charge prices that approached those available in shops. It is believed that many of them have already faced a series of warnings and sanctions from both eBay and software houses, and Ms Alexander said they would all be considered "fairly reasonable-sized operations".The monolithic software firm, which last year posted revenues of $40bn (&#163;21bn), has already taken a string of court actions against pirates in the UK. Last year one company, Zoobon, faced a &#163;12m lawsuit after it was found to have made &#163;3m from selling thousands of high-quality copies of Microsoft programs over the internet.An out-of-court settlement with the Mancunian company resulted in its closure, but one of the latest cases is believed to be against an individual who was among Zoobon's biggest customers.Other actions are being taken in countries including Germany, France and the Netherlands. Fifteen more cases are being taken against alleged counterfeiters in the US. But although Microsoft estimates that it has lost around &#163;250m in sales in the UK alone to criminals, Britain is actually among the world's least-pirated markets.Although figures often vary wildly and are disputed by many, one survey earlier this year suggested that Britain had a 27% piracy rate. This is higher than the US, but lower than mainland Europe - where it can sometimes stretch to as much as 45%.But despite the fact that the latest set of cases targets western counterfeiters, the problem is generally considered to be more prevalent in developing economies such as China. Street markets in Shanghai are notorious for harbouring pirates who often sell expensive programs for tiny amounts of money.The latest set of cases does not involve any Chinese re-sellers, however, but Microsoft claims that the number of actions in any country is not necessarily proportional to the scope of the predicament.The company has been making a concerted effort to inhibit the actions of known pirates ahead of the arrival next year of its new operating system, Windows Vista. That launch - which has been delayed several times - is likely to be accompanied by a flurry of illegal activity as pirates look to cash in on the change.But despite success in the courts, Microsoft has found it difficult to chime with many consumers over copied software. Earlier this year the introduction of a new anti-piracy system was met with alarm after users complained that they were being falsely accused of owning faked versions of Windows.Officials insist that counterfeits are undesirable because they are often laced with malicious software that creates security risks, as well as for the damage they inflict on legitimate sales outlets.
 
"Customers need to be really careful when buying software online," said Ms Alexander. "Half of the sales that go through auction sites are legitimate, but the other half, according to our research, have problems. It seems crazy that we're opening up our PCs in order to save a couple of quid."
MORE than 1,500 delegates, four days of jaw jaw and, come the end on Thursday night, no decisions. You guessed it, we're at a United Nations talking shop.The first Internet Governance Forum (IGF) is under way in Athens. As I type this at the grandly named Divani Apollon Palace hotel, where a KitKat will set you back two euros, delegates bustle about me speaking in countless different tongues. Perhaps predictably, one topic of conversation is this internet conference's failure to provide wireless internet access without regular crashes.Ominous UN phrases such as 'multi-stakeholder policy dialogue' and 'best practice' and 'dynamic coalitions' are thick in the air. But the IGF has no powers to make anyone do anything, so is content to put its ruminations online at www.intgovforum.org and celebrate debate for its own sake.Is it all worth it? Well, this morning's debate on openness made waves, with Amnesty International returning to issues raised by its joint campaign with The Observer, Irrepressible.info, regarding the persecution of bloggers by repressive regimes and the companies which collude with them. Microsoft, Google, Cisco Systems and China itself all tried to defend themselves with varying degrees of success, but Yahoo! failed to show up as billed at a later workshop.This afternoon's main session, on security, was a more turgid affair, full of technical jargon and governmental level discussion which means little to the average PC user worried about their next virus or phishing attack.Looking at the rain and grey skies outside, not to mention the average age of the delegates, I know I'm a long way from Silicon Valley.
"Zombie games are dead"This, apparently, is what one well-known developer was told when they recently pitched a survival horror title at a number of publishers. And while, true enough, the Resident Evil series has seemingly moved away from the undead in favour of diseased Spaniards with pitchforks, surely the excellent Dead Rising suggests there's life in the old dog (or should that be hell hound?) yet.Then again, perhaps not. Currently, a question mark hangs over the whole horror genre...Two years ago on this blog, I lamented the fact that many horror games were moving toward an action feel and away from creepy suspense. Even the twitchy psychological horror of the Silent Hill series was watered down somewhat for the forth incarnation in favour of combat and inventory management.Two years later and little has changed for horror gaming. Like the terrible scary movies Hollywood inflicts on us, which endlessly cannibalise classic shockers (while tearing out any sense of moral ambiguity and peopling the cast with the latest pretty young things), the genre is just going through the motions. Same old transmogrified zombie monsters, same old lank-haired Japanese girl ghosts wavering towards us from the darkness. Has horror run out of shocks?The next-gen consoles with their sheer graphical muscle, crisp surround sound, and incredible physics should be able to serve up a new order of interactive fear. But we're yet to see much evidence - apart from the aforementioned Dead Rising, which is essentially a satire on zombie horror.One interesting recent development is the grafting of strategy shooter elements onto horror frameworks. For example, the well-received PC horror shooter F.E.A.R is coming to Xbox 360 and PS3 soon with new levels, weapons and visual elements. This FPS title is based around a specialist squad of solders tasked with investigating and eliminating supernatural foe - sort of X-Files with assault weapons. It's a nicely designed game that uses advanced AI and very subtle lighting to freak the player out and rack up the tension. Nothing new in terms of sheer arse-quaking horror, though.Next year we'll see Jericho, a fantasy horror yarn from the brain of Clive Barker. It's about a lost Middle Eastern city named Al-Khali terrorised by some form of ancient evil. This really sounds like typical Barker: sort of creepy, but also so removed from real-life it can only really function as a gory Lord of the Rings. The one interesting idea is that, yep, it's a squad-based game, the player controlling a team of soldiers trained in both conventional and magical warfare. Again, grafting traditional strategy shooter elements into a horror universe makes for an interesting shift in gameplay dynamics, but I'd prefer the idea of completely conventional troops being thrust into a weird supernatural horror scenario - an interactive version of movies like Aliens or Dog Soldiers.Whatever the case, both games show a lack of faith in the olde horror recipe. Similarly, thrillers like Alan Wake and BioShock are being marketed as just that - thrillers - rather than horror adventures. It's almost as though there's an industry-wide attempt to move away - or forward - from horror.If it's true it would be a shame as there's a huge amount left to explore. Admittedly, we've probably seen enough zombies bursting through doors to last us for several years and possibly, the shock-based gameplay of the survival horror genrewasbecoming over-familiar (we'll see when Resi 5 arrives..). But there's more to horror than monsters or ghosts. Introversion's strategy title Defcon, for example, presents the once again de rigeur threat of nuclear apocalypse. The Al Gore movie, An Inconvenient Truth is tagged 'The most terrifying film you will ever see' - perhaps climate horror is where videogame developers should be looking.I said it in 2004 and I'll say it again: horror is all around us. Zombies and monsters are mere escapist lackeys, they rescue us from the worry of what we'rereallyfacing. Could we see an age of military horror? Of roadside bombs and charnal house shoot-outs replacing the sterile gadget porn of mainstream stealth shooters? Perhaps it will all be about surburban horror - stalkers and meaningless street violence and the weird boarded up house at the end of the road. Maybe, in rebellion against the sensory opulence of the next-gen era, it will be about unseen horror - madness creeping in from the edge of the screen, heralded by the merest graphical blips, the tiniest sounds tapping away behind us.Or will the horror genre just slip away, its tricks all run out, its undead shocks too familiar to get at us?Can horror grow up? Can we?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Over in the US, the "no-fly" list still holds sway, but the reality is that you can fake a boarding pass and the TSA, which is meant to make it safe to travel on airlines (or at least no less at hazard of terrorism than other forms of transport) is powerless to stop people of bad intent creating a duplicate boarding pass with a fake name. And now a Google intern is in trouble for pointing it out.The point is, as Chris Soghoian explains in "Paging Osama, please meet your party at the Information Desk", the people scanning your boarding passas you arrive at the airportdon't have any access to the flight manifest (of who's travelling on which flight), but they do have access to the no-fly list. It's believed, for example, that Osama bin Laden might, just might, be on that.But at the gate, where they do have access to the manifest, they don't have access to the no-fly list. So they check your ID there. Straight through, Mr bin Laden! Like the construction work your company's done!And Soghoian's reward for pointing out this truck-sized (or even terrorist- or criminal-sized) hole in the system meant to safeguard passengers? A medal? A commendation from his local mayor? Nope, a visit from the FBI (although, as this explanatory - hell, it's newsy, let's be straight -post from Boing Boing explains, they didn't arrest him).(Completely obtusely: is he related, we wonder, toSal Soghoian, of Apple's Applescript fame?)
Happy Halloween everyone!I know I get over-excited about carving pumpkins and eating candy corn at this time of year, but check outthese brilliant stencils of "pixellated players"from Bride of the Zombie Pumpkins. Scare the neighbours with a jack o'lantern with an orc from WoW. Wow!thanks marybones!
IGNreportedyesterday that Sony may now only have 80,000 PS3 units available for the Japanese launch due to component shortages - that's 20,000 down on previous promises. This news comes from Japan's Nikkei Keizai Shimbun agency.A few days earlier, IGN alsomentioneda story from Mainichi Interactive which claims that Sony will be offering Japanese consumers the chance to purchase vouchers guaranteeing them a system early next year. If this is the case, it's a rather desperate measure to stop people purchasing other consoles over the Christmas period.Imagine opening your presents on Christmas morning and finding an IOU from Sony... Ho ho ho? I think not.
Maybe it's the time of year, but you can't move for Game Awards at the moment. But while the BAFTAs and Golden Joysticks hold grand (ish) events, the snappily titledGameshadow Innovation in Games Festival and Awards(or GIGFA from now on) is online only. Judged by the likes of Charles Cecil (Broken Sword) and Lara Croft designer Toby Gard, the awards aim to, "highlight and reward innovative video games, regardless of their size, budget or commercial success." No Nokia award for making Nokia games here then. Simple webgames are lumped in with retail releases like Loco Roco and if you can ignore the odd bit of marketing spiel about the sponsors then GIGFA is worth checking out. Especially as you can play many of the nominated games. I wonder what awards will turn up next week?
Despite the odd hiccup, it seems that the inaugral GameCity festival went incredibly well over the weekend. Highlights included Sega composer Richard Jaques' live church performance, the rag doll kung-fu workshop, the B-Boy dance workshop and Lorne Lanning's controversial keynote. The tea party to celebrate Sonic's 15th birthday was apparently a huge success. A room crammed with hyperactive kids feasting on Sonic cakes dished out by the local WI(!) while having their photos taken with a man dressed as Sonic - you don't getthatat GDC.Oh yes, and Gamesblog's own Grumpy Old Games Industry event seemed to be well-received on Saturday night. Sadly Ian Livingstone had to drop out due to ill-health (get well soon Ian - for heaven's sake don't watch the Manchester City game tonight), but Oddworld co-founder Lorne Lanning manfully stepped in (centre right on the photo) to join myself (centre left) Traveller's Tales producer Jonathan Smith (left), Free Radical Design's David Doak (right) and Richard Jaques (hid from photographer).The curry was great and the industry complaining lasted a vituperative two hours. We covered the uselessness of publishers, the idiocy of the media and the evils of pre-owned games, with all panelists sharing a disdain for major highstreet retailers who trade in pre-owned titles. From a developer's perspective these are worthless sales, so you can understand their frustrations - Lorne Lanning pointing out that the retailer is in a complete win-win situation here. Unlike the developer.There were some fun anecdotes too - like the time Free Radical were dropped by the original publisher of Second Sight (possibly too litigious to relate in detail) or the day Oddworld's publishers managed to lose hundreds of thousands of copies of the developer's latest game 'in a warehouse in New Jersey'. Lanning also managed to compare PlayStation creator Ken Kutaragi with George Bush in one of the evening's least expected juxtapositions.Hopefully, we'll be running something similar at next year's event.Photo by Jon Jordan. Cheers Jon
I imagine it was a strange sight. According to theNYT, the Nintendo stall was set up next to "the American Academy of Audiology, Lighthouse International and the Southwest Lawn Bowls Association". Not a booth babe in sight.The Japanese developer and publisher was the only video game company present at this year'sAARP(American Association of Retired Persons) conference, which of course doesn't come as a surprise. From the article:"Nintendo has never gone after grandparents before," said Amber McCollom, a senior manager of public relations for Nintendo. "We're targeting this audience for themselves, not just their grandchildren."No, they're targeting this audience for their disposable income.The attendees had the opportunity to test drive the forthcoming Nintendo Wii console, andperhaps more predictablyalso got to have a go on theirNintendo DS game Brain Training.The award for most novel marketing attempt goes to....
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Yes, the fourth Elder Scrolls title walked away with the Ultimate Game of the Year, Xbox Game of the Year and PC Game of the Year awards at this year's Golden Joystick event, held last week in London. Predictably, Nintendogs captured both the Bliss Girls Choice and Sun Family Game titles, while Age of Empires III was a surprise winner in the Online Game of the Year category.And it seems as though the worldhasn'tfallen out of love with Sony - PS3 was judged the One to Watch for 2007. Lara Croft has also settled her differences with the gaming public scooping the Favourite Character award. GTA Liberty City Stories took Handheld Game of the Year while the T3 Innovation of the Year, rightfully I feel, went to Xbox Live Arcade.Here's a list of all the winners - chosen, it is important to point out, by readers of Future magazines and visitors to GamesRadar, rather than a panel of judges...PLAY.com Ultimate Game of the Year - Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion Editor's Game of the Year - Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter The Sun Family Game Award - Nintendogs bliss Girls Choice Award - Nintendogs Nuts All-Nighter Award - Pro Evolution Soccer 5 PlayStation 2 Game of the Year - Resident Evil 4 Nintendo Game of the Year - New Super Mario Brothers Xbox Game of the Year - Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion ebuyer.com PC Game of the Year - Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion Handheld Game of the Year - GTA: Liberty City Stories Intel Online Game of the Year - Age of Empires III 1Xtra and Rampage Soundtrack of the Year - Need for Speed: Most Wanted T3 Innovation Award - Xbox Live Marketplace The One to Watch for 2007- Sony PlayStation 3 Favourite Character Award - Lara Croft Sonopress Publisher of the Year - Electronic Arts Sierra Retailer of the Year - Game
"A report to be published today by the Institute for Public Policy Research will warn that millions of British music lovers are breaking the law by copying their CD collections on to their iPods and MP3 players," saysThe Sunday Telegraph."Unknown to many, the provisions of 300-year-old laws that still govern copyright in the UK have the effect of making it illegal to 'burn' tracks from compact discs on to a computer or digital music player."Actually, it's pretty hard to 'burn' tracks to a digital music player as it's hard to get the laser to work via a USB port, and then the Flash memory/hard drive can't figure out what to do with it. Still, while the Telegraph may not know the difference between rip, burn and copy, it does point out that some of our politicans may be breaking a law that goes back to the 1709 Statue* of Anne. The story says:The authors of the report, Public Innovation: Intellectual Property in a Digital Age, claim that the law, which is being examined in a review ordered by Gordon Brown, should be changed to include a "private right to copy" that will protect the owners of digital media players and allow them to copy CDs and DVDs for personal use.Kay Withers, a research fellow with the IPPR who co-authored the report, said: "It makes no sense to the public if they are being offered opportunities to listen and watch media with new technology but are not legally allowed to take advantage of them. The law is out of date and confusing, which creates sympathy for the piracy activities these laws are designed to defeat."* Statute: the typo has been preserved from the Telegraph original
There are no advertisements on Wikipeida, so AOL's Jason Calacanis reckons it is passing up the chance to make $100 million a year -- money it could give to charity or "help fund MediaWiki, the EFF, Firefox, and dozens of other open source projects".Calacanis says:Jimbo: please reconsider!!! I know I can get AOL to sell the inventory at zero cost to you guys and we will donate the bandwidth. Just give us a little 25x25 pixel thank you (i.e. "Hosted donated by AOL." That's it.
It's election time in the US and the dirty tricks and underhanded tactics we've grown to expect in their political landscape have ramped up again, with this year's crop of Republican (conservative) hopefuls getting negative press via Google.According to the NYT, clever folks who know how to game the search engine (also known asGoogle Bombing), are manipulating the its search algorithms to call up unsavoury news items about certain candidates as their top or first page results.If things go as planned for liberal bloggers in the next few weeks, searching Google for "Jon Kyl," the Republican senator from Arizona now running for re-election, will produce high among the returns a link to an April 13 article from The Phoenix New Times, an alternative weekly.Mr. Kyl "has spent his time in Washington kowtowing to the Bush administration and the radical right," the article suggests, "very often to the detriment of Arizonans."Searching Google for "Peter King," the Republican congressman from Long Island, would bring up a link to a Newsday article headlined "King Endorses Ethnic Profiling."Gaming the system has generated some (ahem) hilarious results in the past. For old times' sake, type "miserable failure" into the keyword search just to see what happens. If that floats your boat, you can try "liar" too.
If you always thought MySpace was pointless, guess what, the kids are starting to agree -- at least according toThe Washington Post. And of course, it's not just MySpace: The story says:One key measure of a site's popularity is the amount of time a user stays on the site. Tracked over time, such usage data for older networking sites frequented by young people show how popularity gradually rises then falls, like an inchworm's back.Take Xanga, the hot social networking site before MySpace: In October 2002, the typical Xanga user spent an average of 1 hour and 39 minutes a month on the site, a figure that declined steadily, reaching only 11 minutes last month, according to Nielsen-NetRatings. Friendster, another older site, hit its first usage peak of 1 hour and 51 minutes in October 2003, and then hit another peak of 3 hours and 3 minutes in February 2006. But last month, the average user was on Friendster for a mere 7 minutes.MySpace usage ramped up heavily during its first year and a half, hitting 2 hours and 25 minutes in October last year. Then it dropped to about 2 hours and held relatively steady there for the past year. Facebook, a younger networking site, is still on a gradual incline, reaching 1 hour and 9 minutes last month .Comment: MySpace is still growing as it reaches the mainstream, and it may take off outside the US, as Orkut did in Brazil. But attention is already shifting to other sites, such as Snapvine.com, PLyrics.com, Picgames.com.It's a familiar cycle on the Web. Hard to remember when Alta Vista was the most popular search engine and Yahoo bought home page site GeoCities for an amazing $3.56 billion in stock.
Oddworld co-founder Lorne Lanning has announced that he'll be directing an animated movie entitled Citizen Siege, in association with John Williams' Vanguard Films, producer of the Shrek series. Industry veteran Lanning chose his combative keynote atGameCityto reveal Oddworld's latest project, which will be simultaneously developed as a videogame, using the same database of CG assets - a longtime ambition of Lanning's. The game is likely to be outsourced to another developer. Release is to be confirmed.Lanning said little about the movie's content, but back in 2004, Citizen Siege was being mooted as a politically charged adventure game project. From the content of Lanning's stirring speech, which criticised the videogame industry for not doing enough to explore real-world issues, it's likely there'll be some topical elements. Pointing to movies like Fog of War and Iraq For Sale, Lanning wondered why videogames weren't doing more to challenge their huge global audience. He praised digital distribution as a method of disseminating thoughtful videogame projects - and wouldn't rule out this form of delivery for his forthcoming movie and game release.
Alfa Romeo 159Price:&pound;20,495Top speed:130mphMiles per gallon:47.1Good for:top dogsBad for:hush puppiesIn these anthropomorphic days, when everything from mobile phones to sticks of pepperoni are brought to life by the admen, it's hard to stop bestowing characteristics on all the objects that clutter our lives. The hoover suddenly looks like a nervous armadillo, your lasagne looks like a sleepy Jesus ... In the case of Alfa Romeo's new 159, it looks like nothing more than a grumpy CEO. Front on, two sets of triple headlamps glare malevolently into the middle distance. Separating them is the famous Alfa shield - usually described as a bikini bottom or a bulging poser pouch, depending on sexual orientation - but here the horizontal grid just looks like deep frown lines.It isn't only the car's face which is contorted with executive stress. The 159's muscular shoulders are taut and bunched, its flared wheel arches mean it sits heavily on the road, exuding menace. The driver crunches across the drive towards his ride wondering: 'What's wrong with him this morning?' Not so much la dolce vita for this Italian as another 70-hour week at the corporate coalface.This is the first Alfa produced under the stewardship of new boss Karl-Heinz Kalbfell, who used to work for BMW. Alfa for years has attempted to create cars which would stand up to those Teutonic titans. So it makes sense to give the reins to a German, and with the 159 they have turned out a car which boasts a multitude of Germanic attributes. Sturdy, square and safe (it has a class-leading five-star safety award). Reliable and robust.But whereas most Alfa Romeos quickly become their owner's pride and joy - a Sunday-morning soap buddy to be polished and cherished - this model is curiously cold and forbidding. It's a man's car and its macho expression informs the whole drive. The braking is fearsomely abrupt, the gears need effort and the clutch requires a Blairite resolve. After one particularly clogged journey through London, I began to fear my left leg was about to go into spasm. Treat it mean, of course, and the performance is prodigious, but the novelty of hammering the throttle soon wears thin.Part of the irresistible appeal of an Alfa is its distinctive engine note. In Alfa's bad old days, when every journey was pitched against the twin evils of rust and unreliability, the marque's famous 'rorty' note was often all a driver had to justify their purchase. The diesel I tested, however, sounded like a black cab. I chose the diesel, because if I were in the market for a new car today that's what I'd buy. They offer higher consumption, lower emissions and will go on forever. And Alfa should be applauded for creating such an economical stallion. But I have to say I found the 159's 1.9 JTDM engine rough round the edges compared with the other superb diesels currently on offer from Peugeot and Citroen.It is unquestionably a better car than its predecessor, the 156, but compared with the striking 147 and the stunning GT, this macho Alfa is a little too Oliver Kahn and not enough Francesco Totti.martin.love@observer.co.uk
The growth is exponential, going on totally eye-watering. The search engine roars and the ads pour in: Google made a $733m profit in the last quarter alone: its share price has crested at $426 a throw. Who could ask for anything more? Only, perhaps, the poor suckers who provide the content Googlers search for in the first place.Here, in the simplest terms, is a small take on a massive problem. News is an obvious driver of search engine business (not just for Google, but also Yahoo, Microsoft and the rest). Google News, in its bouncy, truncated way, creates interest. Beyond that, more detailed news agendas can be swiftly tailored - or aggregated - to your own demands. News is a staple diet of net consumption. But where, pray, does that news come from?Of course the search engines, profitable or not, don't have massive reporting staffs fanned out around the globe gathering the hard stuff they depend on. They rely on other people to do that for them: newspaper and magazine staff, agencies, broadcasting stations. They are gannets, feeding on free scraps, and offering an implicit bargain. If your newspaper or TV station website needs to generate page traffic and thus ad potential, they will give it you by sending the searchers your way - as long as you let them use those scraps for their own purposes. They will take your headlines and give you a second bite at any ensuing revenue.There's a rub: the entire news business, partly because of the web growth itself, is in transition. Sales and ad takes are falling or stalling. News teams, inevitably, are being slimmed or shed. So the bargain doesn't look quite as appealing. We give them the tool kit, they nail us to the floor.What's to be done? Belgium's news media went to court recently and won a judgment which (in theory) required Google to pay to use their material, a cyberspace assertion of copyright claim. But there is an answer to that, simply rendered. Wipe Belgium (and all those costly difficulties) off the map. 'Small country making difficulties faces digital extinction.' That is not, coldly considered, a very appealing solution on either side. It doesn't lead anywhere. Let's try an automated content access protocol instead: Acap, coming to a news outlet near you next month for a crucial pilot period. Simply, can it develop the missing industry-standard software link that lets publishers strike more varied contractual deals as the search engine spiders sweep through? It is not everything or nothing, but some things and not others - subject to agreement.Acap has some big battalions behind it: the World Association of Newspapers, 18,000 publications-strong; and many major European and publishing players. It has credible clout in America. The technical challenges involved, though considerable, do not look impossible. A year or more down the road there may be a way of making the search engines pay rather more commodiously and individually for the content they thrive on.But will they? Why should they? Because there are gains as well as losses, as the project co-ordinator, Mark Bide, points out. Naturally this is 'partly' about money. But it is also about swelling the stocks of available content - including databases and books that don't feature in the current game.If a search engine wants to offer customers more and more, this could be the best way to go about doing it. And some on the spider side apparently realise that already. One (unnamed, probably smaller) searcher is a part of the pilot study. Maybe it will strike gold and discover a way to grow quickly. Maybe the grand Googles will see the sense of a co-operation that bestows benefits and cash all round. Maybe Belgium won't happen again.Don't underestimate the difficulties, though. A few will be technical, to be sure, but others - probably the intractable ones - will be pure, impure business. Google, however saintly, has its share price to protect and nurture - and the neeed to foster YouTube any way it can. Publishers have vastly different commitments to the net and vastly different time frames for their companies' futures. The ancestral clash between short-term demands and long-term investment has a whole new arena here. Nothing is sealed, signed or remotely delivered.Yet the basic dilemma will not go away. Vast profits on one side, slithering fortunes, resolve and resources on the other. But both sides, when they think clearly, are interdependent. Search engine news doesn't work if nobody provides it. Something has to give.Victor Zorza: an inspiration rememberedJournalism is a rough trade redeemed from time to time by flashes of inspiration, even genius. Here is one: 'I believe that Communism is merely a brief episode which diverted a section of mankind from the mainstream of history,' the renowned expert wrote.'Ever since the death of Stalin, we have been witnessing the powerful pull of social and political forces within the Communist system which are trying to bring it back into the world community. One who, like myself, has been observing the process so closely day-by-day cannot remain unimpressed by the vast changes in the very fabric of the system ... through these past 18 years.'I believe that the changes which have already taken place are irreversible and that, whatever temporary setbacks might occur, the Communist world will return to the one family of nations with one generation - or within a considerably shorter time, if the West pursues the flexible and imaginative policies that could help bring this about.'That was Victor Zorza, supreme Kremlinologist for the Guardian, in 1969: a prediction wiser, more Olympian even than his famous warning of a Czech invasion just before the Red Army moved in. It is there, with much else about Zorza, in a new biography by Michael Wright, and strangely poignant to read 37 years on.Zorza was a Jewish Pole who fled Hitler's invasion and served with the Polish air force in Britain. He turned himself, with dogged brilliance, into an award-winning journalist and an analyst respected right across the West. When Communism disintegrated, he moved to an Indian village and wrote about its extraordinary life. Then, after the death of his only daughter in a hospice, he set out to help a Russia struggling in the aftermath of chaos and founded its first hospice movement.He was a remarkable, warm, calculating, arrogant, driven, impossible, amazing person. And, 10 years after his death, he is brought back to life again in a way that should make every decent journalist proud. What would Victor have made of last week's headlines - '&pound;1,000 instant fines for migrant workers' and the like? He would have been ashamed, I think - and he would have been right.&#183;'Victor Zorza: A Life Amid Loss',observatory-publications.net
Day oneIn the beginning, there is a blank screen and a sense of expectation. I am free to pursue that most potent of contemporary desires: I can reinvent myself. I can look how I want, make new friends, live by the beach, make a fortune. All for $9.95 a month.For those of you still confined in RL (real life), I should explain. A brave-ish new world has recently been created. You can access it on your PC with a password and your credit card. And as soon as you arrive in it you can easily convince yourself that you are seeing the future - or at least one future - of entertainment and interaction and business.Second Life is a vast shared online simulation that allows you to create a lifelike version of yourself - an avatar - live in a community, buy property with currency that has a dollar exchange rate, travel, shop, work, watch films and music, have sex, fall in love, maybe get rich, without once leaving your desk. Created in 2003 by a company called Linden Lab, the population of Second Life when I arrived a week or so ago was 876,572. Seven days later we numbered more than a million.Like me, all these residents arrive in Second Life naked and hopeful. My first decision is what to call my digitalised self. Linden Lab being a San Francisco-based company, the choice of suggested surnames features a number of alternative heroes: Baudelaire and Kerouac and Zukofsky. I decide, for this trip, to be Ken Kesey. (This partly in homage to perhaps the strangest day I ever spent, when I went to interview Kesey, godfather of psychedelia, and ended up at the ageing Merry Pranksters' 4th of July party, weighing the merits of inhaling various inert gases from unmarked pressurised canisters, before Kesey took me on a magic bus tour of a salmon spawning ground at dusk and I eventually ended up in the early hours driving halfway across Oregon wearing one contact lens to catch a plane.) Unfortunately, however, on Second Life, someone has got to the name first. Ken has gone, so I end up as Kenny, which I fear somehow does not have quite the same countercultural clout. Anyhow, Kenny, now wearing jeans, comes to life and is standing at what looks like the entrance to a national park, or Eden. Using the arrows on my computer, I make him wander inside.Kenny can walk and fly, in theory, though to start with he struggles with both. On the ground he spends a lot of time stumbling through undergrowth. Airborne, he tends to fall suddenly into the ocean. Still, after half an hour or so Kenny emerges from a herbaceous border to see other signs of life.Cathal McCoochnie, in a bikini, appears standing next to him wringing her hands; she is, it turns out, typing, 'Hi'. 'Do you come here often?' Kenny wonders, smoothly. 'Just yesterday,' Cathal says. Before Kenny can reply I hit a wrong key and he leaps three feet in the air and lands squarely on his new friend. Che Rimbaud intervenes: 'Is there a problem?' Kenny, flustered, hurtles off towards the bushes.Later, he's walking backwards through a canyon. Gheorgi Smirnov up ahead is shouting, 'Get me out of this madhouse!' Shug Marseille runs past and Kenny gives futile chase. He stands alone behind a tree. In an effort to cheer him up I edit his appearance. Do I want his eyes 'beady' or 'bugged'? His skin '20 per cent creased' or 25 per cent? Some avatars have the heads of centaurs, or dogs, but most residents seem to have created a slim-hipped, bright-eyed version of their real selves. I give Kenny a rose-tinted photofit, no jowls, no body fat. And he hacks his way through the foliage for the afternoon, in search of company.Day twoIn his forthcoming book From Counter-Culture to Cyberculture, Fred Turner, a communications professor at Stanford, traces the ways that the Californian nonconformism of the Sixties helped to create the revolution of the personal computer. The West Coast digital generation that followed hippy culture borrowed a lot of its mores. It wanted to be 'playful, self-sufficient, psychologically whole - and it would gather into collaborative networks of independent peers'. Even the individual self, trapped in the human body, 'would finally be free to step outside its fleshy confines, explore its authentic interests, and find others with whom it might achieve communion.' In this reading computers - 'decentralised, egalitarian, harmonious, and free' - took over where LSD left off.Second Life threatens to be the apotheosis of that revolution. It is, like the internet, almost entirely the imaginative creation of its users. Its pioneers, mostly hackers and slackers, have organised themselves into special interest groups. But like all Sixties utopias, this one has quickly acquired a powerful twist of designer corporate capitalism (Jeff Bezos, of Amazon, is one of Linden Lab's principal investors). It will succeed on a huge scale, I imagine, because it is aspirational, solipsistic, a perfect fantasy for the virtual middle classes.After a day's practice Kenny can get around his new world like a native. The nomadic existence of undergrowth and ocean-dwelling is not for him: he needs a home. Each new paying resident of Second Life is offered a plot of land. Kenny chooses one on Blacktail Ridge. It is, I have to say, a disappointment: a dark and icy wasteland with a few scattered shacks. I'm reminded of my grandfather who emigrated to Australia in the Twenties on the promise of a parcel of verdant farmland in Victoria, and got there to discover he had been given some acres of waterlogged bog. He stayed for a decade. Kenny returns promptly to the beach.Good land has become so rare in Second Life that people are prepared to pay hundreds of real dollars for it. You can buy a private island for $1,250, plus a monthly charge of $195 in land fees. There are several takers. Anshe Chung, Second Life's richest avatar, owns a property empire on the site worth $250,000 (&pound;137,000) and employs 17 real-life people. Kenny tries to rent a glassy condo near the beach, before I discover it will cost $20 a week for a year - a tricky expense claim. Eventually, after nearly a day of looking, he takes out a short lease on a modest wooden bungalow on the sand for some of the few hundred lindens - the local currency - he had been granted on arrival.He sits down, exhausted, in the free reclining chair he has picked up on his travels, and wonders how to make it stop facing the wall.Day threeSecond Life, or something like it, was first imagined by the science-fiction author Neal Stephenson in his 1992 book Snow Crash. His prophecy was uncanny. 'Hiro's avatar is now on the Street, too,' he wrote, 'and if the couples coming off the monorail look over in his direction, they can see him, just as he's seeing them. They could strike up a conversation: Hiro in the U-Stor-It in LA and the four teenagers probably on a couch in a suburb of Chicago, each with their own laptop. But they probably won't talk to each other, any more than they would in Reality ....'As Stephenson realised, it is profoundly odd how readily you identify with your recently created envoy in the 'metaverse'. Absurdly, the more hours I spend with Kenny, the more I'm concerned about him. I'm interested to discover if his avatar acquaintances can seem like real friends. Korvel Noh, who co-owns the house Kenny rents, comes round to welcome him. He talks with some real enthusiasm about a 'big party we threw on Sunday night' and 'plans for an events centre, a hot tub and honeymoon suites nearby'.In real life Korvel lives in Harrisburg in Pennsylvania. He owns a web-design firm that he is relocating to Second Life. 'It really is the Wild West in here...' he says, excited. 'A huge land rush where anything goes.'Kenny wonders how much Second Life has changed in the year he has been here.'The place hasn't changed much,' Korvel says, 'but I certainly have. You need to be an extrovert to thrive in here. In RL I'm the opposite. I have a wife and family, but I spend a lot of time not really interacting with the outside world.'Here, he has made lots of friends, though he still feels the need to get away on his own sometimes. 'I have a small concrete bunker on my first land,' he says. 'I still go there to write computer code in private.'Kenny goes out into the New World with fresh purpose. Unfortunately, since he has rented his place he has the word 'tenant' prefacing his name, which I can't work out how to delete. A couple snigger as he walks by. He reaches the shore where women lounge on large inflatable chairs cleverly fluttering their eyes and crossing their legs to show their expensively purchased underwear. Kenny tries to strike up conversation.'Can't you see I'm reading?' Scarlett Pixel says.'What's the book?''Dan Brown, tenant ...'Later, at home, Kenny seems pleased to discover that Korvel has installed waves in the sea outside for him.Day fourThe simple genius of Second Life is that it combines elements of Big Brother culture with the spirit of eBay. It plays to the contemporary urge to project ourselves into every story, to write our own emotions larger than anyone else's, to perform rather than to listen, to blog rather than read. And it also offers unlimited opportunities to shop.The more time Kenny spends in his new world, teleporting between the live bands at the Hummingbird Caf&eacute; and Old Salt's Pub, checking out the beaches and the casinos, the more he appears to feel the need to be accepted by his new community. At one point he chances upon a beach where 30 brilliantly customised avatars are dancing in unison on revolving rainbow stages. Kenny walks into the middle and yells Stooppp! No one misses a beat.He seems increasingly isolated. He is wearing a sort of velveteen catsuit, acquired by accident, which he seems unable to take off. He needs a new outfit. Forty per cent of the real money spent on Second Life goes on designer clothes. American Apparel is one of several chain stores that now has an outlet, but Kenny discovers that it is, bizarrely, closed. At another place he gets some jeans, and goes in search of a T-shirt. He ends up, still in his velveteen body stocking, being propositioned by a tall transvestite flogging a line in fishnet. Kenny swiftly teleports home, trying to wrestle a cardboard box containing his new jeans off his arm.Day fivePhone sex lines and chatrooms give users the illusion of intimacy with none of the risk; Second Life provides an exaggerated version of that relationship. Firefly Nerd is standing on the terrace of the bar he runs. He's been coming here for two or three hours almost every night for more than a year. He runs the bar with his wife. The rest of the time he fixes computers in Washington DC. He gives Kenny the facts of Second Life.'People are people,' Nerd, a balding avatar in a Monty Python T-shirt, says. 'Relationships in SL aren't that different from relationships in RL to me ... It's all about honesty. Romances happen very quickly and intensely on SL as in RL and then burn out a little quicker.'Nerd does a lot of flirting, he says. His wife is in a long-term relationship. 'People ask me whether I think that is infidelity, but I'm aware and I give my permission.'They flew to a Second Life convention in San Francisco recently, hooking up with their virtual friends for real. There were lectures, talks about SL commerce, ('and an awful lot of "muah"', Nerd's friend Sweetdoll, go-go dancing nearby, adds.) Do avatars have sex? Kenny wonders.'Boy, do they!' Firefly Nerd says.He suggests Kenny goes to a shop called Bits and Bobs to find out how. Kenny seems to have a slight Action Man sense about his own manhood. There is romance in the air in Second Life, or at least the whiff of lust. All of the most visited places are pole-dancing clubs. Kenny wanders into Studio 54 and stands by the bar, while I try to download his salsa moves.Later he pitches up, as Nerd Firefly suggested, at Bits and Bobs. On the walls are pictures from the Kama Sutra, which, if purchased, can be moves incorporated into your avatar. Approached by a salesgirl in leather, Kenny makes his excuses. Back at home he sits in his free relaxation chair, still facing the wall, and logs off.Day sixI wake Kenny up early. One of the things he has noticed about Second Life is how busy everyone seems. Residents spend a quarter of the time they're on the site - a total of more than 30,000 man hours a day - creating objects that become part of the world, available to everyone else. I give Kenny a vague idea that he will get a job hiring out canoes from the beach, but the mechanics of raising the capital to buy the canoes, and the means of getting them to float, are beyond him. His free lindens are dwindling; he's stuck, desperate. Perhaps, Kenny resolves, he'll become a journalist.He arranges to see Adam Pasick who works at the Reuters agency. Adam is the first full-time real-world hack in Second Life. In the lobby of the high-tech Reuters office Kenny runs into a Canadian TV crew working on a story about the story.Adam comes down to meet Kenny and then invites him up to the roof garden, where it's quieter. He's been here two months now, he says, and he is starting to dream in RL about Second Life, which is alarming him. Since he is on all day he feels he should get his wife an avatar. He's been madly busy, he says, breaking the story of US tax investigation into SL businesses.Kenny wonders if there have been any wars to report on.Adam has heard rumours of a dalek war out in the desert, but mostly it's business stuff, multinational relocations. He doesn't have time to go to the pub, at least not in Second Life.Kenny wonders awkwardly if he has any jobs going for an aspiring feature writer.He promises to keep Kenny posted.I'm struck, not for the first time, by the insane seriousness of this place. It's clearly much more than a game. One of the things that characterises the texture of Western lives is the breakdown of barriers between work and leisure. One increasingly looks like the other. Second Life exploits that fact perfectly. Dave Surface, who owns the land Kenny lives on, and who, as a full-time virtual reality designer has 'had great hopes for this space for many years', suggests, 'I don't think SL is the end game... by next year there will be several firms like this and the masses will move in and out of them looking for opportunities.'He is surprised by the lack of political activity on Second Life. 'There are too many efforts here that simply aim at duplicating RL ...' he says. 'We need more innovation that leverages our own environment...' Kenny instant messages Katt Kongo at the Metaverse Messenger, wondering about the possibility of a job, but she does not respond. I may be projecting, of course, but I swear he seems to be fretting about his finances.Day sevenNext morning, somewhat cruelly, I resolve to put Kenny out of his misery. There are, I've heard, areas of Second Life dedicated to fighting. Dave Surface explained to him how he was attacked recently in a place modelled as a ghetto. 'I walked past a group and a guy with a shotgun told me to keep walking. I turned around and said, "Gee, friendly place" and he shot me and blood went everywhere. It was actually kind of scary.' Dave survived. Kenny may not be so lucky.I let him sleep in his reclining chair, facing the wall, while I try to locate a likely Unsafe Area. I then read the small print. 'If your health meter health reaches zero during combat you are dead,' the information reads. 'Happily, however in Second Life death merely results in you being repawned back to your home location, with no lasting effects whatsoever.'My heart sinks; Kenny is immortal. I am stuck with him, it seems. And he is stuck with me. He reclines in his chair, waiting. On the seventh day, I decide to let him rest.Virtual goldmine: Second Life facts&#183;Second Life has an estimated GDP of $64m. Last month alone, $6.6m was spent in user-user transactions - 40 per cent of it on designer clothes.&#183;More than 3,000 residents earn an average of $20,000 in annual revenues from the game.&#183;Musicians who have played virtual gigs in Second Life include Duran Duran and Suzanne Vega.&#183;Possible 2008 presidential candidate Mark Warner was interviewed by a virtual journalist in a Second Life town hall.&#183;20th Century Fox held a premiere for the third X-Men movie in Second Life and BBC Radio 1 recreated its Big Weekend festival on a virtual island.&#183;$1bn was spent last year on multiplayer games such as Second Life.Other multiplayer games include:&#183;Habbo Hotel - a Finnish game favoured by children and centring around the exchange of furniture.&#183;Entropia Universe - half a million have registered with this online community, in which real money is also used, since it was established in 1995.&#183;World of Warcraft - this fantasy multiplayer has almost seven million active subscribers.
A technology company has launched a security system that allows homeowners to monitor CCTV footage of their houses on their mobile phones.Gadgets firm WatchNET is marketing the technology after the owner of a &pound;2.5 million house in Lancaster foiled a burglary using the system. Images can be viewed on a computer or by using a mobile phone. If an intruder is detected, the system can send an alert by text message or email.John Ellison, 52, was on holiday in Marbella when he received a message on his mobile that his burglar alarm in Lancaster had been set off. He was able to see police arrive at his home and arrest the burglars.Mark Johnson, 46, was jailed for a year for the offence and for an earlier assault. His accomplice, Ian McClements, 20, was given four months in a young offenders' institution. 'I'm glad they are off the streets. It's made my day,' said Ellison after the sentencing.
I wonder if anyone in the Microsoft empire has ever read George Orwell's essay on 'Politics and the English Language', that admirable meditation on the ways in which language can be used to obscure inconvenient truths. Consider his observation that 'modern writing at its worst does not consist in picking out words for the sake of their meaning and inventing images in order to make the meaning clearer. It consists of gumming together long strips of words which have already been set in order by someone else, and making the results presentable by sheer humbug.'The Microsoft humbug division has been working overtime in recent years. Example: Windows 'Plays for Sure' - a standard which, according to the company, 'makes it easy to find digital media stores and devices that work together'. In fact, it's just a euphemism for the particular digital rights management (DRM) system they're using with Windows Media, and is essentially Microsoft's attempt to counter the dominance of Apple's iTunes Music Store (which in turn employs its own distinctive 'plays for sure - but only on iPods' DRM system). It would perhaps be more accurate to say that Microsoft 'Plays for Sure' really means 'plays on Windows-based platforms', but that would involve telling the truth.Another product of the Microsoft humbug division is the Windows Genuine Advantage scheme. This is actually the 'Stamp Out Piracy' programme designed to enable Microsoft to determine whether a particular computer is running a pirated copy of Windows. As such, it's a perfectly legitimate measure that enables Microsoft to create a match between your PC's hardware profile and the 25-character Product Key that Microsoft stores and checks against future activation attempts.As it happens, this column heartily approves of stamping out the pirating of Microsoft software, because then large numbers of people will realise how expensive the stuff is - and may explore alternatives to paying tithes to Redmond. However, with the arrival of Vista, the new version of Windows, the 'Genuine Advantage' scheme will take an interesting twist. If you fail to register your copy of Vista with Microsoft then your computer will effectively stop working after a time, allowing you to run only a browser - until you register the product with the folks in Redmond. And this will happen even if you have paid for the software licence.Which brings us back to Orwell. 'Political language,' he wrote, 'is designed to make lies sound truthful and murder respectable, and to give an appearance of solidity to pure wind.' 'Genuine Advantage' is just such a phrase. It implies an advantage is being conferred upon the consumer whereas, of course, quite the opposite is the case.How buena is Vista?One of the consequences of the delay in the Vista schedule is that the new system will not be in the shops in time for Christmas, and the displeasure of UK and US retailers has finally had some effect back at Microsoft HQ. On Tuesday, the company announced a voucher programme that will give buyers either a free or discounted version of both Vista and Microsoft Office. These are called the 'Express Upgrade to Windows Vista' and 'Microsoft Office Technology Guarantee' programmes, and they will be valid until 15 March 2007. 'You can buy a PC with Windows XP now and upgrade it to Windows Vista once we've launched commercially,' product manager Nick White told the tech blog Good Morning Silicon Valley. 'How's that for making your purchasing decision a little easier?'Well, up to a point. But it still leaves customers with the dubious pleasure of installing Vista on their shiny new machines. Last week, Erika Jonietz of the MIT magazine Technology Review had a go at installing a late beta version of Vista on two PCs: 'Microsoft has a long way to go,' she wrote, 'if it hopes Vista will revive its image the way that Mac OS X revitalised Apple's.'Dyb, dyb, dyb&trade;Here's a touching development: Boy Scouts in LA can now earn a 'respect copyrights' badge, pictured, by taking a course designed by the movie industry to impress on young minds the evils of piracy. The badge shows a film reel, a CD and the copyright symbol. Coursework involves a guide to intellectual property, learning how to identify five types of copyrighted works and listing three ways in which copyright materials may be stolen. How long, one wonders, before our young heroes find themselves lampooned on YouTube?
For the past week's posts, clickhere. Highlights include:10 biggest computer flops of all timeRobot gymnasticsPaul Thurrott vs. Dell, and a note on outsourcingYouTube shared user data with studio lawyersIs the BBC really switching to wma?More misleading statements from McAfeeTalk Time: Mozilla's Mike Schroepfer interviewedSmith &amp; Jones offers rehab to games addicts, says Daily MirrorOracle drops bomb on Red Hat's Linux businessDell, a trip into cartoon hellMicrosoft profits up on Xbox and server software sales
Groove removed from the heartIn an alarmingly surreal turn of events, videogame giant Sega has been awarded $608,000 in damages and legal costs against Lady Miss Kier, lead singer of the poorly spelled 1990s dance act Deee-Lite.Ironically, the court action was initiated by Miss Kier herself three years ago, who alleged that her likeness had been stolen by Sega for use in the now-ageing rhythm action title Space Channel 5, whose character Ulala could, in a certain light, be thought to resemble Miss Kier.Sadly, evidence that "ooh-la-la" was a term uttered in Groove Is In The Heart, Deee-Lite's sole hit record, was dismissed by the judge. It's unclear whether the singer plans to go after any other skinny yet ditzy female games characters, although under the circumstances it seems unlikely.
YakuzaPS2, Sega, &pound;40Playing the "Dragon of the Dojima Family", whose yakuza connections are unceremoniously severed when you take the blame for killing the family's boss, your job (after you get out of prison) soon emerges as one of administering kung fu justice to an endless procession of street gangs, punks, yakuza and crime bosses. Fights are satisfyingly solid, and cut scenes, while frequent, are mercifully short and feature hilarious levels of translated gangster posturing and unnecessary swearing, which leaven a mix that errs on the side of rescuing young girls and retired detectives. Compared to XBox 360, the dear old PS2 is starting to look appallingly creaky and low-rent, but despite this and its plural shortcomings, Yakuza's plot-driven beatings and gradual build-up of experience are extremely hard to put down.Ridge Racer 2PSP, Sony, &pound;30PlayStation, PS2, PS3 and PSP have something in common beyond being made by Sony: Ridge Racer has been a launch title for every single one. Since PSone, Namco's racer has been the cornerstone of Sony's lineup and one that has varied surprisingly little over the years. New tracks, tweaks to the handling and choosing exactly how much to emphasise the series' famously exaggerated power-slides make outings practically indistinguishable to all but the cognoscenti, but its races are fun and the progression always perfectly metered, which makes the brand a safe bet if you enjoy a simulated drive. The PSP's analogue joystick is placed in such a way as to make extended play excruciatingly painful, but apart from that notable design flaw, Ridge Racer 2 is up there with the best of the series.
Welcome to the October edition of Business sense. Leading this month, we thought we would take a look at the use of consultants in smaller businesses. Consultants, of course, are not the universally bad news that caricature paints them to be; they can bring expertise to businesses too small - or too busy - to come up with the knowledge themselves.But our story was prompted by the surprising statement, by a consultant, that some businesses are actually addicted to his colleagues' services. Cynics might argue that, of course, the consultant concerned is just trying to sell more consultancy services - and that that's what they do best. Others might say that, if you don't know when consultants are going to end a project, or if they seem to be running an initiative rather than you, you might have a problem. Use our guide to see if you have a dependency.Where we all, undoubtedly, have a problem, is in air travel. Ros Taylor braves the rulebook and the security to try and decode what - exactly - you're allowed on a fl ight. The news - not particularly helpful, we'll concede - is that the aviation industry remains hopelessly unsure and inconsistent itself.Finally this month, a surprise. As the nights draw in, and the weather gets perceptibly colder, you might daydream that it would be nice to still be on a holiday island somewhere far south of here, away from the rat race. But Nick Clayton, our man with the desk in the sun, shatters the idyllic image you might have painted yourself in his column. Nick warns that even those "downsizing" by moving to Ibiza face money worries at this time of year, as the seasonal businesses shutter up for the winter. Some loose interpretation of employment law, not to mention fi erce competition for jobs, can make for an unhappy combination.Remember, as you trudge through the rain, that maybe, just maybe, the grass isn't always greener ... and cling to the hope that fl ights to somewhere sunny are a little easier to board before too long.
Heard the one about the consultant? Someone who comes in and tells you what you do for a living then charges &#163;1,000 per day for the privilege? Those who cannot do, consult? We could go on.It's easy to be dismissive or cynical about a job whose definition is so fluid - an IT consultant has little in common with a PR consultant, for example, and neither would claim to be qualified as a management consultant.The cynicism tends to go away when you see some of the impressive results they can produce, but things don't always go so well - and some of the consultants themselves have started making noises about the money being wasted.Alastair Clifford-Jones, chief executive of management consultancy Leadent, has identified what he calls "consultancy addiction" - the process by which clients get so hung up on having consultants around that they won't let them go."You just see that people are using consultants and work alongside them - you go to a meeting and next to them is a consultant," he says. "It's like losing the ability to make a decision." It wasn't just one client doing this either. "I think it's about how you treat your client. You create a dependency."It's odd to hear this from someone whose business is pretty obviously in providing just the sort of service he appears to be running down, but he believes acknowledging this sort of addiction is in everybody's best interests. "Clearly we're a business and not a charity. We're in it to make money," he says. "If we tell people we think they can do something by themselves then they acknowledge that we've helped train them to do so, and there will still be other projects in which we can take part."There are cases in which the client offers too much responsibility to the external people, he believes. "We had an instance recently in which we started off by taking all the decisions. It was IT-led and it was all 'this bit of kit doesn't work, what would you do', and then gradually we found out by giving them confidence that they were able to take loads of decisions - so we were able to pull out."One of Leadent's clients, Paul Vallely, a programme manager for Anglian Water, beleives his company avoided becoming dependent on consultants. "I think we had a fairly clear view of what we wanted Leadent to do," says Vallely. "I could certainly see opportunities Leadent didn't exploit when they could have. They didn't try to perpetuate the relationship by suggesting there were reams of work still to be done."The positive experience led Vallely to move into a change management role, which he considers to have moved him forward personally as well as professionally.Anglian Water might not see itself as a consultant-dependent company, but every consultant, once you ask them, recognises that the syndrome exists. Simon Rawling, head of project management consultancy PIPC, puts a lot of the onus on the client's stated requirements. "The consultant should help with the business and not run it," he says. "They can put a new IT platform in, put a required change in, but not run the day to day business." People have to recognise the roles of consultants before commissioning them, he says."Many organisations we know tend to use consultants in lieu of staff when they have headcount freezes, for example." He confirms he's seen consultants outstay their welcome in some organisations. "They charge by the day and I've seen consultants plant themselves and embed themselves until the client feels they can't live without them." His company's answer is to continue to demonstrate value and, above all, agree an objective and exit point in advance so both sides of the partnership know where they're heading.There are a number of strategies consultants can take to avoid getting clients "hooked", believes Clifford-Jones. "We would work with them in very much a coaching way - for example if they were presenting a business case internally we'd make sure it's they who end up presenting, not Leadent." Often people ask consultants in to build their credibility after a decision has already been made - and that's when they ask the consultant to do the presentation, so that it looks independent. "But then they're owning the presentation," says Clifford-Jones. "We also tend to rotate people, putting different people in at different points of a project because people need different skills at different times."There is a valid place for consultants, though. Much of the problem centres around communication and the powerbase that information can offer. Professor Eddie Obeng is learning director at the Pentacle Virtual Business School. "Consultancies leave a culture of dependence because there is no knowledge transfer between themselves and the client in the implementation of a programme," he says. "They solve the problem at hand but they don't leave any theory or tools in the hands of their clients."In order to succeed in the long term, businesses need to be led to implement the tasks for themselves - not for somebody to chase the tasks directly."He adds that often there is a sense of failure because of escalating costs: "Businesses have long been using the adjective "strategic" as a proxy for "loss making", a malady that has been exacerbated by the rise of expensive strategy consultants."Consultancy isn't a bad thing, and it's probably healthy that the practitioners themselves are leading the charge against its more exploitative excesses. The thing to remember is that consultancy for its own sake, like anything in business, is unlikely to deliver a positive result. The smaller organisation can be particularly vulnerable to the brow-beating, "you need us to make this change" approach, but there can be good reasons for appointing a specialist:&#183;It might not be economic to hire a fulltime PR/technical wizard/other non-core specialist to the staff;&#183;The owner or manager might be able to make a change or decision by themselves, but his or her time might be better spent on a core task;&#183;Your need might be short term so you just don't need anyone who's going to hang around your premises any longer than necessary.Whether any of this puts you at risk of dependency is open to conjecture and will depend on the sort of consultant you've hired - and frankly, whether they have any scruples or not. The thing to bear in mind is that although Leadent and others believe themselves to be proactive in weaning clients away from them when they're no longer needed, that's not the view taken by everyone. And inevitably it's the bad ones who won't tell you when you don't need them.Test yourself - are you addicted to consultancy?Ask yourself the following questions to find out whether you're over-using consultants:1.Can you say for certain, or even roughly, when your consultant will be leaving the premises permanently?2.Do you have a good reason for not taking someone on as staff to fulfil the consultant's role?3.Do you have a defined objective for the consultancy you've employed?4.Do you ask your consultant for advice on matters other than the task for which you hired them?5.Do your employees refer to the consultant as the "owner" of an initiative, as distinct from the internal sponsor?Answer "yes" to the first three questions and "no" to the last two and you're likely to be using consultants sensibly. "No" to the first three and "yes" to the last two means you're using consultants as a crutch rather than a defined part of your business. Ask them about it - if they're any good they'll probably be pleased to hear it from you rather than having to raise it themselves.Expert adviceGetting the most from consultancy Phil Smith, consulting services director at Amaze - which offers web and IT consultancy - accepts findings from research organisation Gartner that suggest 80% of consulting spend ends in a failed project. He offers a number of pointers to a successful venture:1.Get the right consultancy. If you need the added clout of a major brand to back a decision then opt for one of the "big four" or a global strategic consultancy. If you want an innovative and different approach then opt for one of the smaller more nimble ones.2.Tackle the problem head on. Spend money up front to clearly identify what the problem is, and if possible don't just bundle it into a development project with poorly defined objectives and scope.3.Opt for smaller projects, where possible. Smaller projects are more focused, more direct, and easier to handle. This enables you to work with your consultant in a more effective manor with a great deal more flexibility.4.Make sure you have internal buy-in. Working with a consultant is never going to work unless you have the proper sponsorship for the business changes that are likely to result from the advice and/or solution.5.Work in partnership. Focus on the outcomes you want rather than the contract. Consultants work better where they are part of the team and able to have an open and honest dialogue with key stakeholders.
Many businesses buy a digital camera under the impression it's going to turn their brochure or whatever else they want to illustrate into gold. Sadly, this isn't usually the case, any more than buying a racing car would turn you into an expert driver.Indeed, professional-standard cameras are a technology in their own right and the people who can operate them well have years of skill and experience behind them. The selection we looked at for this round-up isn't pitched at that level. If you're an estate agent wanting to attach pictures of properties to documents with speed and efficiency, or if you're looking for mugshots or pictures to transmit for purely informational purposes, then the following cameras will have much to offer. If you want to create something more artistic then, at the risk of sounding flippant, you need to spend the money on someone with the talent rather than the hardware that enables them to produce it.There are a few things to remember about digital cameras. Yes, you can take as many shots as you want without cost penalty as long as your memory card is up to it, but this takes time. Anti-shake technology and a simple menu, plus a large preview screen on the back, are likely to be most helpful if you're unsure.The high flierSamsung NV10The new Samsung is the definitive camera for someone who wants to slip something into their pocket, on to their wrist (strap included), or on to their belt (case with belt attachment included and, for once, the included case looks and feels like a quality item). Yet despite being so small, it still packs a generous 10 megapixel resolution.The menus take a bit of getting used to and, after several goes, I was still hesitating as to whether to use the wheel or the touch-sensitive blocks on the back. But this is quibbling. It's hard to imagine anyone not being delighted with this camera, and what looks like unnecessarily high resolution at the moment means you'll be future-proofing yourself into the bargain.Price:&#163;215 (frompurelygadgets.co.uk)Maker's URL:www.samsung.co.ukPros:Value, design, ease of use.Cons:The non-standard interface might cause a bit of a learning curve. For about 10 minutes.Star rating:5 starsThe centre groundPentax Optio A20Even smaller than the Samsung is this low priced item from Pentax, which does most of what the other camera does quite happily. A pleasure to carry around - although it would have been good to have a case included as the other model did (although if you've spent &#163;26 less the makers might well feel you could afford to go and get one). Ten megapixels and 3x optical zoom make for excellent quality output and the menus are simple to navigate. Video was reasonable quality - the only drawback was the position of the on-off switch next to the shutter. On such a small camera I accidentally flicked it off when I tried to take my first couple of pictures.Look also at the Casio Exilim in this class, which benefits from slim and lightweight packaging and, if you shop around, you'll get change from &#163;200.Price:&#163;189.95Maker's URL:www.pentax.co.ukPros:Value and size.Cons:On/off switch is easy to hit when taking a picture.Star rating:4 starsThe premium brandCanon Digital Ixus 900TiThere's no doubt that Canon knows what it's doing when it comes to camera technology - and the images from the Ixus have good resolution. The menus on the generously-proportioned display put the rest to shame in terms of clarity. While it might be an exaggeration to say a child could use this camera, it wouldn't be a particularly big one. It has Pictbridge for printing and you can't get lost finding which cable is which. So far, so excellent - but it's bulkier than the rest of the cameras on test and, frankly, it's not an attractive device to have around.No doubt an expert could say exactly why the price is so high compared to the others. But without so much as a carrying case on offer it's difficult to see any real differentiator here.Price:&#163;277.77 (cheapest onPricerunner.co.uk)Maker's URL:www.canon.co.ukPros:Extremely easy to use.Cons:A photography expert could no doubt say why this costs &#163;100 more than its obvious competition - I couldn't.Star rating:3 starsThe landscape photographerNikon Coolpix S10With a six megapixel resolution this Nikon might seem overpriced compared to the rest, and its bulky body might reinforce that impression. However, this would be to ignore the main reason for buying it: the lens, which swivels round and offers a 10x zoom. This isn't a digital zoom either, it's a physical, zoom lens.Whether this is suitable for your needs is something every individual will have to assess; it's certainly a function that is worth the price in areas where you need it. Once again, a carrying case would have been a useful addition, particularly given the hinged nature of the product - it's bound to be a little fragile. Menus and ease of use were once again superb.Price:&#163;245Maker's URL:www.nikon.co.ukPros:The zoom.Cons:The pricey zoom lens won't suit everybody.Star rating:4 stars
A website selling environmentally-friendly paint sounds like the sort of venture that might steal business from a village-based shop with a range of green home products.In fact, it represents the swift re-invention of Karoly Nunhofer's start-up, Ieko. When he opened a shop in Forest Row in East Sussex in February 2005, having given up a job as a trainee chartered accountant, Nunhofer stocked a wide range of green household products, such as energy-saving lightbulbs. "It became apparent that some things were doing better than others, and paint came out on top," he says. "In November last year, I streamlined the business to just paint."This helped, but Nunhofer felt it would be difficult to grow, given his location in a village and little money to spend on marketing: "In a way it was a crisis," he says. "I knew we should concentrate on paint, but I couldn't carry on with a basic website and selling to the local area."So he spent several thousand pounds replacing his self-designed website with a professional one, which went live in March this year, then several thousands more on making it easy to find through search engines, both by optimising the site's pages and through sponsoring search terms on Google's AdWords service (he combines words about looking after the environment with "paint"). Nunhofer says he may stop using the paid-for AdWords service when his website does well enough in Google's standard search, but adds of sponsored searches: "It's surprising that people don't see or notice that it's paid-for advertising. They say, that's top of the page, I'll click on that."He reckons at least half his business now comes via the internet, either through online sales or people visiting the shop after finding the website. His annualised turnover before spending somewhat less than &pound;10,000 on the website and search engine work has grown from under &pound;20,000 to more than &pound;100,000. "The business has grown more than five times in under a year," Nunhofer says. "I don't think you can do that with any conventional advertising."He is moving to a larger shop in Forest Row, as well as developing things online. "A website backed up with bricks and mortar is a better website," he says.Ieko is an example of a start-up for which reinvention was vital shortly after opening. "When a business is in its early stages, the chances of failure are much higher," says Simon Briault, a spokesman for the Federation of Small Businesses.Briault says that start-ups are risking failure if they rest on their laurels as soon as the business has started making money through attracting a handful of clients."One of the things for a small business to watch out for is to widen and diversify the client base very quickly," he says, by searching for replacements for the first customers rather than becoming dependent on their continued business. "So if you do lose a client, it's not terminal."Briault says that small businesses can also suffer from a lack of planning. "It's often the case that if someone has a great idea and gets some money, they rush into setting up a business," he says. "The best safeguard against failure in the early months is to foresee any obstacles you will come up against." It can be worth taking up to a year planning a start-up, depending on the sector, he adds.Lack of planningJohn Goodhead, a small business adviser and one of the judges of Business Sense's eBay challenge earlier this year, goes further: he reckons that lack of planning is the main reason start-ups fail. "There's an old expression: fail to plan, plan to fail," he says.Lack of planning blight comes in a variety of kinds, says Goodhead, but funding is the main problem. "Many [start-ups] don't appreciate how much finance they need, and they don't know where to go for it either," he says. The former can be exacerbated by unrealistic sales forecasts, as well as failing to realise the gap between sending an invoice and being paid: the standard legal period is 30 days, but some customers insist on much longer, and others will not pay on time.There is also a danger for labour-intensive businesses in over-trading, taking on too much work due to failing to realise capacity. Goodhead says that taking on too much work when a business has very few employees can lead to those staff failing to complete jobs on time, while simultaneously becoming difficult to contact. Both lead to a reputation for being unreliable.As for finding the money, Goodhead says the easiest source is the proprietor and his or her family: this will also help convince other potential lenders, such as banks, that an entrepreneur is worth backing. However, he adds that those who use their home as collateral for a business loan are taking a very big risk.Instead, he adds that it is worth investigating whether the state-sector or a charity will provide soft loans (those on better terms than from banks) or other help. Some local authorities' business units provide seed money for businesses in deprived areas; the business advice service Business Link may be able to help; and the Prince's Trust provides assistance to young entrepreneurs.One place not to look for start-up funding, Goodhead adds, is venture capitalists, who tend to prefer to invest in businesses that have reached their first birthday.Arthur Slight, head of business development for business consultancy Targeting Innovation, agrees that venture capitalists are little use initially. "There's quite a lot of money around for companies, the problem is there is not a lot of money at the very early stage," he says.Slight says there can be specific problems with the "classic" start-up - that based on a new idea or invention. "A lot of technology companies tend to be a bit more fascinated by their technology, not their business," he says, and usually need to recruit good marketing and sales staff to balance the people with the technological nous.Failure to balance bright ideas with sound business sense can stop a firm getting more funding, never mind finding customers, Slight adds.He dealt with one firm that developed technology allowing homeowners to control their heating and ventilation by mobile telephone. The business was told by housebuilders that the units were too expensive, so it focused on cutting the price rather than marketing the benefits. "Because they hadn't got their message over, they couldn't get access to finance at the rate they needed," says Slight, and they stopped trading.WeblinkIeko:www.ieko.co.ukGoing it aloneAzita Qadri has certainly spent time planning her new business: she started thinking about it before taking a job with eBay four years ago. After re-visiting the idea - in which firms retain staff who want to work part-time by finding suitable candidates to share their jobs - last spring and deciding it was worth serious consideration, she spent holiday time researching her idea with potential corporate customers. After deciding it was viable, she resigned from eBay in August and opened Eat Your Cake - named because she says job-sharers have their cakes and eat them - at the start of September.Qadri reckons she has avoided mistakes so far by drawing on the experience of friends, including former colleagues at eBay, such as asking the firm's UK IT manager what equipment to buy - then using the website to buy some of it.Financially, Qadri is relying on her own savings and assuming a slow start. She is saving money by working solo from home, and has bought little beyond computer equipment: "My costs are nothing compared to starting a shop or a restaurant," she says.Her business plan assumes no income until the sixth or seventh month, and she has around &pound;15,000 to see her through that time. "It's one of those things that feels like an adventure," she says, comparable to spending a similar amount of time and money on foreign travel.A friend in recruitment advised using a permanent location for interviewing candidates, so she is on familiar ground, saves time travelling and so the candidate shows some commitment. But with temporary office space costing from &pound;150 for a minimum half-day rental, Qadri instead chose a nearby restaurant: it is easy to find, the managers are happy for her to conduct interviews there and it has the right atmosphere. "It's kind of an extension of my brand, so I can't meet them somewhere horrible," she says.The restaurant also allows private discussion: "The place has enough of a buzz that you can't hear anyone else's conversation. [Candidates] have all felt really comfortable, and talked right away," she says.WeblinkEat Your Cake:www.eatyourcake.co.uk
By now, everyone's heard of podcasting, even if they're not certain what it is. Due in no small part to the Guardian and its programmes with Ricky Gervais, the idea of downloading what is effectively a radio programme on to your PC - and, if you wish, transferring it to some sort of portable media - has gained currency. The last series of Doctor Who had downloadable commentaries for anyone who was interested - and many of the news and broadcast media are now taking advantage of the technology.And so are several businesses. Not just the obvious branding businesses either; ordinary companies performing tasks unassociated with IT or communications are getting into the new medium. Adam Samuel is managing director of real estate companyNubricks.com. "We started blogging, which is essentially the written version of a podcast, last year," he says. "It was successful and got the information we wanted to a new type of audience. Podcasting was an extension to the blog, whereby you're using an audio format - it gives an additional stickiness factor to our website so people come back for the whole series, and it offers a flexible format so the business traveller can listen in at their leisure."It sounds ideal for most companies wanting to attract regular site visitors. But can it actually be that simple? "The way that we did it was to set up interviews with industry professionals and downloaded free software called Audacity," says Samuel. "We then conducted the interviews via Voice over IP: we press the button to start the recording, edit it through Audacity, export as an MP3 file and upload it straight to the web." The company really found it that straightforward. Other benefits were evident before long. The scope for advertisers was considerable. "It's effectively an uncluttered space - you have people's full attention. So if someone puts an advertiser message at the end it gets heard," says Samuel.One size doesn't fit allThe fact that it was right for one company doesn't make it right for another every time, of course. Nick Saalfeld is managing director of Wells Park Communications, which specialises in corporate editorial services, including podcasts. Unusually for a communications company, Saalfeld doesn't like a thorough brief from clients or prospects. "Part of our service is really to ask, what are you trying to achieve? We're supposed to be the experts. If you're a manufacturer of shampoo and come to me and say you want to do a podcast about shampoo, I'd say no, this is daft. I don't think podcasting works well for things where there's not much to discuss." IT works well on podcasts, he says, because there is a lot to explain. Travel, too, is a subject that allows the speaker to paint a picture for the listener. Podcasting as a knee-jerk technology isn't a good idea, he reckons. "Our value is to say OK, I get the concept, here's how we think it would work. FMCG [fast-moving consumer goods] are unlikely to work as a podcast subject - if someone makes staplers and wants to do a podcast, my reaction would be, don't be ridiculous, it's a stapler!"Assuming you've read your market correctly and there's something to say, the mechanics are simple, particularly for the small business. "These things are always a bit of an open book; my personal thought is that if you're in the small business space you can get away with spending &pound;300-&pound;700 on equipment and seeing how it works out," says Saalfeld. "You need a pretty decent microphone that might plug straight into your PC, and then you need some editing software - which can be free - and then you need to think about music. There are plenty of places online where you can get music that won't be subject to royalty payments or copyright protection for a fairly nominal fee, say &pound;20-&pound;30."Content is of course important. "One of the things I ask people is can you repeat this 10 times?" says Saalfeld. One-offs can have their value, but the podcast culture is such that people expect a recurring event. Also to be resisted, unless you're a genius, is the single voice. "The dialectic of an interview is ideal for a podcast, whereas one person blathering away isn't particularly interesting to listen to."Interactive trainingSome older companies are starting to look seriously at podcasting. Martin Addison is managing director of Video Arts, the company set up by John Cleese and Jonathan Lynn to issue training videos that use humour to explain business concepts. He sees podcasting as a natural progression. "Technology has given people the opportunity to be interactive about their training," he says. "They learn for themselves in their own time. The next stage in terms of technology is something that's already being called m-learning, or mobile learning." He sees this not simply as something tied to a digital audio device but as something that could be delivered via any portable device. He doesn't rule out video-learning via a palm-sized unit at some future stage.This will actually open up different areas for the company, he suggests. Instead of having to learn everything in a classroom by rote, people will be able to assimilate a briefing in detail for the short term - maybe for a specific client meeting. "Whether it's a podcast or short video, it's almost like having a kind of coach in your pocket. Say you're conducting an appraisal and have a discipline interview to conduct, you might have been on a course six months ago but it's now that you need that quick refresher on exactly what you need to do."And it's here that the field starts to get really interesting. By all means podcast what's effectively a radio programme: the results might well be excellent and compelling. The real opportunity for podcasting, though, could be in the fact that the listener is in control - in other words, the element that make podcasting unique as a medium. It's a very new and evolving thing and nobody actually knows how it's going to develop. There's a chance to become one of the pioneers of business podcasting. But beware that there's also a chance to become one of the first people to misread the medium completely.Top tips: Podcasting dos and don'ts&#183;Do remember that a podcast is a "brand" in its own right. It's an "audio brand" and should be produced to the same high standards as any other promotional material - or it will have the opposite effect on customers&#183;Do ensure your content is interesting and relevant to your customer. Never forget that the intention of any podcast is to encourage repeat visits to your website and generate more business&#183;Do choose interesting interviewees. Monotonous voices and too many "ummms" makes for painful listening - and fast use of the "off" button&#183;Do make sure you're properly prepared. Think of a podcast like a presentation. Using a prepared script or bullet points are good - "winging it" is not&#183;Do be aware of your environment when you're recording interviews. A big office with a high ceiling will make you echo like you're in a church. Sitting next to noisy equipment or with phones constantly going off is very distracting for the listener&#183;Don't make your podcast too long - 10 minutes maximum. Any longer and it can be a nightmare to download and few of us have that much time or patience&#183;Don't produce a 10-minute piece using just one voice. It's like producing a brochure in just one colour with no punctuation. Vary your interviewees&#183;Don't forget to brush up on basic interviewing techniques before recording your podcast: don't hold the microphone too close and don't talk over your interviewees. Encourage them by nodding - not by saying "yes", "hmm" and "OK" while they're talking. It's very irritating for the listener.&#183;Don't just pick a CD out of your collection to use as background music to make your interview more dynamic. Your business will be breaking music licensing laws. If you want to use music, you need to secure the rights to use it beforehand - or it could be very expensive&#183;Don't forget to include your company name and contact details in your podcast. It's often overlooked and your customers need to know instantly who to contact when they've finished listening&#183;Tips compiled by Jane Danser, managing director of business audio specialist Pure Brand Media
BooksTips from across the pondOn the bookshelf this month is Trump Style Negotiation by George H Ross (Wiley, &pound;16.99). Ross has worked with multimillionaire Donald Trump for over 30 years and has picked up a fair few "powerful strategies and tactics for mastering every deal", as the cover puts it.And there's little doubt that he's done precisely that, but not necessarily in the UK. Without wishing to come over all Little Englander, business experience either side of the Atlantic isn't always the same.For example, his anecdote about keeping dollar bills framed in his office so he can tell people how he won them from different people at different times wouldn't stack up in the UK's more diffident culture. We probably wouldn't show off about how we took an individual for every penny they had. And his suggestion that establishing rapport might not seem a relevant thing to do simply doesn't hold true over here; foreign nationals are often bewildered when Brits enter business meetings and spend the first 10 minutes talking about their journey, the weather and making self-deprecating comments about their business prowess.But it's worth persevering beyond the localised oddities. Ross's experience does shine through and he has as much to say about what a negotiation isn't as what it is. If you turn up late for a meeting without apology, that becomes part of a negotiation. If you haven't done your research into a client or the product you're pushing, that becomes part of the negotiation. Telling the truth isn't always part of a negotiation and that's understood (his example of nobody telling an estate agent that they're happy with the price but are going to haggle for the hell of it is a good one), but there's honesty in sticking to the agreement. There are many practical tips on researching, controlling the pace of the negotiation and telephone and email negotiation.No, every page won't be relevant in every territory, and the sections comparing negotiations to baseball are likely to leave most of us on this side of the pond bewildered. There is nonetheless a lot to be gained from dipping into this book if not reading it from cover to cover.TravelTake the train, says VirginYou're wasting a lot of money travelling by car - so says a report from Virgin Trains. Yes, of course they'd say that, but the new report, published by Napier Universty's Transport Institute, has a lot to say that seems to add up.For example, when looking at the cost of travelling very few people add in the cost of productive time that's spent concentrating on driving in the car. Given the emphasis that has been placed on mobile computing in recent times, that's perhaps a surprise, but the university reckons an employee would squander 66% more time while driving as compared to sitting working on a laptop on the train. Employees, says Virgin, notch up some 27m miles on the road every year, and if a saving of &pound;129 is possible on a journey from London to Manchester, then presumably the figures average out to millions of pounds being wasted.Clearly, looking at who commissioned the report, these are statistics with vested interests spread all over them; for all that, they offer a new way of looking at the full cost of travel and one that many businesses would do well to consider.OnlineBT offers IT check-upBritish Telecom has launched a number of tools for small business including a website offering information and support services (www.businessclub.bt.com) and, perhaps more substantially, an online calculator to see whether you're getting the benefits you need from your technology (www.bt.com/itcalculator). The calculator takes you through a series of questions on what you're using and how, and comes to conclusions about whether you're IT "fit", "undernourished", "obese", or a number of other options.The move was prompted by research that suggested that about a third of UK small businesses rely on advice and information from friends rather than people qualified to offer considered input, and therefore end up with a relatively poor deal. The result, says BT, is that many business managers end up running their IT when they would rather concentrate on their business.ProcurementSMEs 'squeezed out'The Forum for Private Business (FPB) believes that the small business sector is being squeezed out of public procurement bids and has called on the UK's EU commissioner, Peter Mandelson, to do something about it. World Trade Organisation rules forbid any actual favouring of small business in the procurement process, but the FPB points to a number of countries, including Japan, South Korea and the US, that have negotiated exemptions from this rule.The FPB's view is that if some countries have exemptions then UK small businesses are being unfairly disadvantaged when it comes to benefiting from public spending.FinanceShop around, says VonageInternet calling company Vonage has researched the amount small businesses are paying for utilities and concluded that managers could make huge savings. Some of these savings are clearly in telephone calls, and this is what has predicated the report in the first place, but the findings on other utilities are interesting.The company commissioned YouGov to look into the matter and found that the average utility bill for a small business has increased by 9.8% in the last 12 months, considerably ahead of inflation. Gas prices saw the sharpest increase as they rose by 91% from July 2003, with electricity prices moving up 81% in the same period.Kerry Ritz, managing director of Vonage UK, believes business needs to start thinking like smart consumers and shop around for better deals. Clearly he believes telephone costs are a suitable place to start, with 61% of small business spending more than &pound;300 per month on existing landline bills and over half paying &pound;400 per month for mobile bills as well. Twenty-two per cent have never even considered moving to another technology, and 33% of organisations didn't know what VoIP was (it's voice over internet protocol, piggybacking your internet connection to make cheaper phone calls).A surprising 47% of small businesses had actually never changed their telecommunications provider, regardless of the pricing issues.
The last of Ibiza's summer holidaymakers probably envied us as we sat outside the bar in T-shirts and summer clothes. It was a balmy evening and the tourists would be heading back to months of cold and damp. Our slightly noisy conversation made it clear that we live here.What the envious visitors didn't know about was the underlying stress of quitting the rat race. It's not something Ibiza residents talk about with strangers. After all, the envy of holidaymakers is part of the pleasure of living here. Around our table that evening were, among others, a former orthopaedic surgeon who'd spent the day digging a latrine, a woman who was a senior manager of one of Britain's largest charities and was now relaxing after spending 11 hours cleaning other peoples' villas, and a highly-qualified aeronautical engineer currently working as a labourer on a building site.Everybody's in their 40s, nowhere near retirement age, but all found the mental stress of their old occupations too much. Now they look tanned and healthy from the physical work. At the end of their honest days of toil they should have been sleeping well, but they weren't. They might have been liberated from professional responsibility for other people, but the more immediate challenge of paying that month's mortgage was keeping them awake instead. There are disadvantages to freedom from the monthly salary cheque.It's at the beginning of autumn that insecurity really begins to set in. Through the summer there are plenty of jobs for everybody, whether they are Brits in their teens and 20s, South Americans without work permits or locals. My friends do OK because they've brought enough of their former responsibility with them to ensure they turn up for work every day, even if it does mean missing a party. They also have the advantage of nationality. There are more tourists coming to Ibiza from Britain than from any other country.It's funny, Brits here often behave in exactly the way that the media accuses immigrants of acting in Britain. They form closed enclaves employing people from their own nationality, eating their own food in their own restaurants. The people who run those British bars and restaurants would regard themselves as refugees from the rat race, every bit as much as the middle-class building labourers. But they've also discovered that escape also brings stress. It often seems there's no quicker way to make yourself unpopular with the ex-pat community than to become an employer.The problem is the fickle nature of the tourist industry, where budget airlines have only partly replaced the declining numbers of package holidaymakers. Nobody can even be sure when the season begins and ends any more. So casualisation reaches ridiculous extremes. For instance, my friend the former charity worker was told to hang about in a local bar at the beginning of the summer to see if a restaurant was going to be busy enough to employ her that evening as a waitress. She said no, but it wasn't difficult to find somebody to fill her place.Then, at the end of the season, staff are dropped without notice. As soon as a bar or restaurant has one or two quiet evenings, the owners decide to cut their losses. Workers are told not to bother turning up the following evening. There's an uncertainty that changes even the nicest people into ruthless bosses. They'd like to employ people officially on contracts with the resulting social security benefits for staff , but Spain's employment laws are strict and expensive. And their competitors aren't going to stop using the plentiful pool of casual labour.The root of the problem is undoubtedly intense competition from other destinations, particularly at the budget end of the holiday market. But equally, the EU removing the need for work permits has made it far easier to drift into downsizing your life. The line between working legally and illegally for EU nationals is far from clear.The effect is that professionals are now facing the sort of uncertainty that used to be the preserve of much of the working class. The difference is that there's an element of choice involved. And, despite the stress of escape, I don't know anybody who's desperate to rejoin the rat race.&#183;Nick Clayton is a freelance writer and web content consultant. Emailnick@adeskinthesun.com
Small business is increasingly becoming the only potential easy target for fraudsters. Tighter security around consumer purchases and greater attention to fraud risk at larger companies is driving criminals to the only place where security often isn't quite so advanced.KPMG Forensic's Fraud Barometer, published in January of this year, revealed the cost of corporate fraud to have leapt to more than &#163;900m in 2005, nearly three times the amount reported in 2004. Accurate figures for fraud against small businesses are harder to find, but estimates range from &#163;50m to &#163;100m per annum. With an estimated four million small enterprises in the UK, combating fraud has become a commercial imperative. But small business owners continue to have a lax attitude to fraud prevention.Long firm fraud has been around for decades and is often used to defraud SMEs. "It can take some organising, but when done well can be devastating," says Philip King, chief executive of the UK Institute of Credit Management. "The lesson for small businesses is to recognise that it is pretty unusual for you to get a sudden large order. There is often an underlying reason for that order that is a lot more devious and worrying."John Lord, director of Dun & Bradstreet and responsible for overseeing its fraud prevention activities, explains how long firm fraud works: "Criminals will find a company and cut and paste all of its account details into a new, bogus company that they have legally set up. So what you then have is a formal set of audited accounts that are going to Companies House and, on the surface, they look fine. So if this new company comes to your business and asks for a line of credit, you are likely to open that account because the searches at Companies House and with your credit agency would probably not pick up on the fact that this customer is not legitimate."The credit manager of a north England audio and visual retailer who has been the target of fraudsters over the last few years describes the experience: "We had one fraud attempt involving the BBC. They appeared to order some equipment and said they needed it urgently so could they come and collect it. When we spoke to the BBC, they said that this kind of fraud was a major problem for them and that they suspected it was an ex-employee who knew their systems. We tracked down the person that was collecting the items and it turned out to be a courier whose brief was to meet another courier and so on. None of them knew who they were working for."Small business owners generally consider fraud to be low on their list of priorities. But as fraud continues to grow, ensuring you have adequate systems in place will pay dividends in the long term. Fighting fraud should start with a fraud policy statement. This should be communicated to all managers and staff as well as contractors and suppliers. This document should clearly set out how you view fraud and how it will be dealt with if detected. Just as you carry out a risk assessment as part of your business's health and safety systems, you should also perform a fraud assessment as this will highlight any areas of your business that could be vulnerable.Finally, if you do fall victim to fraud, you should have contingency plans in place that will enable your business to recover quickly after the attack. These plans should be one component of your business's wider disaster recovery plan. Many small business owners also fail to use the services of credit agencies as comprehensively as they could.The cost of acquiring credit checking facilities is low when compared to the potential losses that your business could suffer. "With the checks that a business can put in place, there are always levels of sophistication you can go to," says Philip King. "How much detailed checking a business does will depend on how large the order is and how much risk it involves. The reality is that there are some very cheap ways of setting up checks via Companies House or the credit reporting agencies. I've seen examples where the address of the trade references was the same as the address of the business placing the order. Just simply looking at the two addresses simply hadn't occurred to the manager of the business."Intelligent softwareSpecialist agencies have also developed their own systems to help clients fight fraud. Forensic accounting experts at PKF have developed intelligent software that can help businesses detect fraud. Their data mining tool, PKF Finder, enables organisations to search their purchase ledger data to help identify fraud and suspicious activities such as duplicate invoices and VAT irregularities. Dun & Bradstreet uses a similar application: "FastStats compares every single set of accounts filed in the UK with every other set of accounts," says John Lord. "It will then identify two sets that look exactly the same. The odds of that are a couple of billion to one. So you know that one of those sets of accounts is fraudulent."Being able to change director names and duplicate accounts at Companies House is a major worry for all businesses that are registered. Companies House itself has recognised this as an issue and has put anti-hijacking measures in place.Before the Fraud Act 2006, which should become law by the end of this year, there was no precise legal definition of fraud. The new act replaces previous offences that came under the umbrella term of deception and defines fraud in three broad categories: fraud by false representation; fraud by failing to disclose information; and fraud by abusing a position. These new offences have a maximum sentence of 10 years. Whether this new law coupled with the government's fraud review will have an impact on small business fraud in particular remains to be seen.As a business owner you must place fraud prevention at the centre of your business's financial systems. "Fraud is still a major problem for SMEs - both traditional types of fraud and cybercrime," says Ros Wright, chairman of the Fraud Advisory Panel. SMEs generally don't have a focus on fraud because they are so busy trying to run their own business, develop profitability and manage cashflow. It is too late for an SME to take action against &#8804; fraud once they have been hit. Fraud in SMEs can destroy livelihoods, and have a greater potential impact on the individual than in a larger business."David Ripley, business development manager at Business Link, says: "The small business owner has to be vigilant and, besides being detailed in their checking, should maintain an overview of a situation to see if the 'sense' is right. Taking the time to think through their weak points and putting into place simple routines for credit-checking new customers and setting credit limits can minimise the impact of fraud. Being very clear contractually when purchasing services and accepting goods is sound business, as is ensuring that there are double signatories for cheques and credit notes.""Small businesses are not helpless," says John Lord. "They can be more proactive by ensuring they do all of the checks. They should also have some form of monitoring of their business in place. Smaller businesses should also be aware that because larger businesses are now much better at protecting themselves against fraud, the criminal gangs are moving increasingly to smaller business to do long firm fraud. Smaller businesses have always been seen as the soft underbelly. Smaller businesses are usually keen to do business and often short of cash so they often don't make all of the checks they should. So the advice is don't act like a small business."The types of fraud that you must be vigilant about generally fall into three categories: external fraud, which is characterised by corporate identity theft and the long firm fraud; internal fraud perpetrated by management or employees; and, finally, fraud in collusion with other organisations or individuals. All of these types of fraud can be identified and precautions put in place to protect your business. Review your business's fraud policy now and ensure you have adequate protection. By performing simple checks on new accounts, and by monitoring your internal systems and any outsourcing your business uses, you can prevent your business becoming a victim of fraud.WeblinksPKF:www.pkf.co.ukCompanies House anti-hijacking serviceExpert advice: Fraud prevention1.Put in place a corporate fraud awareness programme2.Write and implement an anti-fraud policy and strategy document3.Allocate sufficient resources such as a "fighting fund" to help combat fraud4.Help educate your corporate personnel and any third parties and contractors about the threat of fraud5.Make sure that you have in place robust pre-employment screening and vetting processes that are applied to all new members of staff6.Carry out regular security risk and threat assessments in your business or organisation7.Ensure that the physical security of your business premises is up to an appropriate standard8.Ensure that there is a corporate "clear-desk" policy applying to all staff and that sensitive material is locked away after use9.Implement controls on the removal of intellectual property from the workplace (eg laptop computers and hard-copy files)10.Inform your staff of the severe consequences of engaging in fraud and that action will be taken against offenders&#183;Compiled by Mike Bluestone, Fraud Advisory Panel
MondayOnline console gamingThe videogame BAFTAsSony delays Blu-ray againTuesdayLego Star Wars 2 - the interviewVirtual world travel agency opens digital doorsImporter blames Sony for collapseWednesdayDigg-ing the gameGameCity stuffThursday50 greatest games of all time10 political games everyone should playPlaying with "me"FridayLet's make a digital dealPocket Gamer in the pinkPS3 - first hands-on impressionsThe worst thing about videogames?
This week,as I reported in the Technology section, McAfee issued a press statement patronising Sophos, Britain's leading security software vendor, for speaking up on Microsoft's side of the great PatchGuard kernel protection argument."Single-product vendors, like Sophos, may well not have an issue with Microsoft. However, for an innovative security risk management vendor like McAfee, that offers its customers comprehensive security protection, full and unfettered access to the kernel is vital if we are to protect users as they are currently protected with XP," sneered McAfee.But this mischaracterisation of Sophos merely adds to the string of misleading statements in which McAfee now seems to specialise.Graham Cluley, Sophos's senior technology consultant, is surprised that McAfee "is so out of touch with what our company actually does". He adds:The fact is that we deliver a complete security solution with anti-virus, anti-spyware, anti-adware, HIPS [Host Intrusion Prevention System], firewall, application control, anti-spam, policy, appliances, and have announced innovations in web and mobile security. We have shown innovation in our single client which allows corporations to benefit from new advances in security technology (such as control of VoIP, IM and P2P software and proactive detection of unknown malware), and in our gateway protection against internet threats, without having to roll out any new software or learn a new management console.Sophos has developed an innovative solution that brings the benefits of HIPS to 64-bit Vista users, where other vendors appear to be struggling.It's the behavioural protection that McAfee misleadingly claims that PatchGuard prevents in Vista (although it's misleadingly saying Vista when it only means 64-bit Vista, not 32-bit Vista; and it's misleadingly saying Vista when actually PatchGuard is already in 64-bit Windows XP). Then McAfee misleadingly claims that PatchGuard shows Microsoft isn't co-operating with independent security vendors, which is simply untrue.On the good side, McAfee seems to have stopped misleading people by saying Windows Defender can't be turned off, when it can. But will it now apologise for misleading the press? Will it tell the European Commissioner for Competition? Don't hold your breath....See also:More misleading statements from McAfeeReader says McAfee is misleading him tooMcAfee hit in stock options scandal
OK, jealousy aside, Greg Howson from our Gamesblognow has a pre-production PlayStation 3.
comScore Networks has reported the latestworldwide ranking of top Web properties, ranked by unique visitors aged 15 or over, per month.It says: "Of note were the gains experienced by Wikipedia Sites and Youtube.com during September. Both sites were up 12 percent versus August."Time Warner Network is mainly AOL. I assume Fox Interactive Media includes MySpace. Viacom Digital includes MTV.com, VH1.com, Nick.com etc, Neopets and Xfire.
So I got a PlayStation 3 yesterday. Sure, it's a pre-production debug machine that lacks all the multimedia and network facilities, but it plays games and actually exists which is more than good enough for me. Here are my initial impressions...Well, it's certainly heavy and - whisper it - a little ugly. But while the console itself may not win any beauty contents - a "shiny black pillow" was my wife's most generous description - it has a weighty substantial feel with tactile buttons and, more importantly, runs very quietly. After year with the 360 you certainly appreciate the relative silence.The PS3 has built in power supply - unlike the 360's huge power brick - which makes it feel a much tidier, if heavier, package. The build quality is good too. With no tray - discs are elegantly sucked in - and touch sensitive buttons for power and eject, you certainly get the impression of quality. Though let's face it, at the price Sony are likely to charge, decent build quality is the least you'd expect.Switch on without a game and you enter the front-end - a PSP style cross media bar that lets you choose between Users, Settings, Photo, Music, Video, Game, Network and Friends. It's far too early to tell how this will all fit together - this prototype console "only" plays games - but the minimalist layout and design is in stark contrast to the 360's noisy, but perhaps more friendly blade system. But what about the games?Resistance: Fall of Man is perhaps the biggest launch title. A first person shooter, RFOM essentially mixes Call of Duty with Halo. Oh, and a lot of brown and grey as far as I can make out. Yes, this is yet another moody shooter although the 1950s UK setting - the action starts in York and soon moves on to Nottingham - is pleasingly different. But after what I've seen so far, it looks like the action fails to match the interesting plot - this is bog standard FPS territory. RFOM shares Call of Duty's bombed out European architecture but seems to lack the intensity of that series despite being quite challenging. Similarly, blasting alien enemies is reminiscent of Halo, especially the vocal effects, and is enjoyable enough but there is nothing here that couldn't be seen or done on the 360. Bear in mind that this is initial impressions of unfinished code so things could get more inspiring. But as it stands Gears of War has nothing to fear.Next up was MotorStorm. Ah MotorStorm, the last time I saw you was in video form at the 2005 E3 conference. How pretty you looked then, how deceived we all were. But, in a genuinely shocking surprise, MotorStorm is pretty damn good. The environment in the one level I have access to is mightily impressive - think dusty canyon - while the wide range of vehicles - ranging from bikes to trucks - make for a satisfyingly redneck racing experience. I'm keen to see more.Sadly the same can't be said for Lair. Controlled using the motion-sensor built into the pad, Lair sees you guiding a dragon around some pretty-ish environments while breathing fireballs aplenty. Fans of Panzer Dragoon may enjoy but I was unconvinced. The controls felt quite loose and though it was only a demo I won't be holding my breath for this one.Elsewhere the new joypad - aka SIXAXIS - takes a little getting used to, mainly because it feels so light. In fact it is almost too light and feels slightly cheap, though the triggers have got a satisfying feel. The lack of rumble doesn't seem a major issue at the moment but it is likely to be missed in the longer term.After a tortuous gestation period the PS3 is finally here, which is some kind of achievement in itself. It's very early days but I've been unexpectedly impressed with what I've seen so far and that's without any of the multimedia or network elements that will make up a huge part of the whole PS3 offering. The games may offer little new - has any launch game since Super Mario 64? - but they have a visual polish uncommon in launch titles. More impressions next week...
Ben and Mena Trott of Six Apart fame (Movable Type, Typepad, LiveJournal) have launched another blogging-cum-social networking service, Vox.There's a video here.It's targeted at "friends and family" -- like a replacement for your family newsletter, they say.There's coverage atTechCrunchand a site review atThe Blog Herald.
