&bull; A week afterFacebookannounced new privacy settings, it got more traction by urging its 350m users to actually, you know, set their privacy levels. But it got more than it bargained for in the process, since it turns out that the new default options give users no privacy to speak of. The Electronic Frontier Foundation has saidthe changes are clearly intended to push Facebook users to publicly share even more information that before, while ReadWriteWeb calls the language"Orwellian".&bull; Remember whenAOLand Time Warner got hitched back in 2000? It was a $350bn merger that left everybody agog - but after nearly 10 years locked in a difficult marriage, the twofinally split yesterday.&bull; It's the penultimateTechnology Guardianever, and we've got plenty of goodies for you. Our annual list of the100 most useful websitesis back, a column fromBruce Schneier, as well as an interview with Microsoft researcher Danah Boyd about theabout the fallacy of the "digital native". Much more, as usual, with the Guardian today oronline here.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Does anyone still make laptops with 4:3 screens? I want to replace my five year old IBM ThinkPad X31 as both the processor and battery are showing their age. Lenovo claims to offer 12.1in standard laptops on its website but following the link reveals only widescreen models. I don't watch movies or play games but I do work on documents and spreadsheets in portrait format where I want more depth (or height) on the screen. To get the same screen area as the X31 with 16:10 format would need a 12.6in screen, and to get the same height, a 13.5in screen.Jem MooreI'm also still using an X31 ThinkPad and have the same problem. Unfortunately, 4:3 format screens have gone out of fashion and most ultramobile laptops now have 13.3in widescreens that are not as tall as the X31's 12.1in screen. Worse, the extra width means the widescreen versions take up more room in your bag.If you decide to stick with a 12in widescreen, you will lose screen height, but not screen resolution. The WXGA widescreens on the ThinkPad X200 and Toshiba Portégé range typically have a resolution of 1280 x 800 pixels, which offers slightly more depth than the 1024 x 768 pixel XGA format used by the X31 and similar machines. On-screen text will be smaller, but screen quality has improved in the past five years, particularly with the move from TFT to LED panels. At around £1,100-£1,200, these machines are cheaper than the X31, and have twice the battery life, so is that a problem solved?However, if you are willing to try one of the new ultrathin machines with Intel CULV (Consumer Ultra Low Voltage) chips and 13.3in widescreens, you can get a PC with even better battery life for about half the price. Examples include theAsus UL30,Acer TimelineandMSI X340, all of which I've looked at in Technophile, plus the Dell Inspiron Z and Acer's Travelmate-badged Timelines.Ultrathin laptops usually have 16:9 widescreens with a resolution of 1366 x 768 so you will have the same vertical resolution and almost the same physical screen depth. The main point to watch is not to buy a machine with Core 2 Solo processor, but to go for a Core 2 Duo. TheWikipedia CULV pagetells you which model numbers are which.Backchat: Carl Brancher quibbled, correctly, about me mentioning "the move from TFT to LED panels" (above) because, he says, "I believe almost all displays are TFT-LCD: what's changed is the construction and backlighting methodologies."Technically, many displays have changed from using very thin tubes (CCFL, for Cold Cathode Fluorescent Lamps) to LED backlighting, because light-emitting diodes use less power and don't dim as quickly. Companies, however, are selling LED screens rather than thin film transistor (TFT) liquid crystal display (LCD) screens to avoid having too many three-letter initialisms.
I frequently get searches from Google or Bing where what looks like a straightforward web address gets modified in the browser to one where "doubleclick" has been added. These searches invariably fail: I get a plain white browser screen and a frustrated feeling! I know DoubleClick is a well-known spyware, but I can't seem to get rid of it. I am using Internet Explorer 8 and Kaspersky antivirus protection on a Sony laptop running Windows XP Pro SP3.David HuntThis is usually a spyware and/or adware problem, so run a good spyware remover, such asSuperAntiSpyware. The infection may well have changed your hosts file. You can change it back to the default Hosts file by going toMicrosoft's Fix It 50267 pageand clicking "Fix this problem".Perhaps an even better answer is to go to the Microsoft Most Valuable Professionals site anddownload a Hosts filethat also blocks a lot of advertisements. Where an advert would appear, you'll get a panel saying that your browser cannot find the site. Basically, your new Hosts file is redirecting these sites to 127.0.0.1, which is your own computer. For example, a line in Hosts that says 127.0.0.1 google.com will stop your browser from reaching Google.By the way,DoubleClickis not spyware, it's an advertising service company that Google bought for $3.1bn. The ad-blocking hosts file should stop its ads from appearing.
I hope to replace an ageing Dell Dimension desktop. I have eight USB devices so currently use six rear USB ports plus a hub. The Dell Inspiron only has four rear ports and Dell tells me that it is not possible to add any more. Is it the usual practice nowadays to rely on hubs?Andrew PattersonThere are still machines around with eight USB ports, an example being the HPPavilion Elite HPE-053uk, aimed at gamers. However, you can add an extra four USB 2.0 ports to many desktop PCs by fitting an internal PCI expansion card such as theNewLink. These and similar FireWire expansion cards are aimed at users with older PCs that only have original USB ports.You may be able to reduce your reliance on USB by connecting some external peripherals, particularly hard drives, via FireWire instead. External powered hubs work pretty well for many devices, but you would have to experiment to find which of yours work best when plugged in directly, rather than via a hub.
I have upgraded my PC to Windows 7, but the TV tuner card has stopped working and I have been told that the 64-bit version of Windows 7 doesn't support TV cards.Dave CaseThe 64-bit version of Windows 7 does support TV cards, and Windows 7 should find a driver automatically – as long as it has been supplied to Microsoft. If a company has written a driver but not supplied it to Microsoft, then it should be available on the manufacturer's website. Not every peripheral that worked with Windows XP has a 64-bit driver for Windows 7. However, the Windows 7 compatibility list includes163 items in the list of TV tuners with 64-bit drivers, so there could well be one for your TV tuner.Anyone planning to upgrade a PC to Windows 7 should run Microsoft'sUpgrade Advisor. Running this on a 32-bit system tells you nothing about 64-bit compatibility, so you have to check for all the drivers manually.
Ultraportable PC wantedDoes anyone still make laptops with 4:3 screens? I want to replace my five year old IBM ThinkPad X31 as both the processor and battery are showing their age. Lenovo claims to offer 12.1in standard laptops on its website but following the link reveals only widescreen models. I don't watch movies or play games but I do work on documents and spreadsheets in portrait format where I want more depth (or height) on the screen. To get the same screen area as the X31 with 16:10 format would need a 12.6in screen, and to get the same height, a 13.5in screen.Jem MooreJack Schofield replies:I'm also still using an X31 ThinkPad and have the same problem. Unfortunately, 4:3 format screens have gone out of fashion and most ultramobile laptops now have 13.3in widescreens that are not as tall as the X31's 12.1in screen. Worse, the extra width means the widescreen versions take up more room.If you decide to stick with a 12in widescreen, you will lose screen height, but not screen resolution. The WXGA widescreens on the ThinkPad X200 and Toshiba Protégé range typically have a resolution of 1280 x 800 pixels, which offers slightly more depth than the 1024 x 768 pixel XGA format used by the X31 and similar machines. On-screen text will be smaller, but screen quality has improved in the past five years, particularly with the move from TFT to LED panels. At around £1,100-£1,200, these machines are cheaper than the X31, and have twice the battery life, so is that a problem solved?However, if you are willing to try one of the new ultrathin machines with Intel CULV (Consumer Ultra Low Voltage) chips and 13.3in widescreens, you can get a PC with even better battery life for about half the price. Examples include the Asus UL30, Acer Timeline and MSI X340, all of which I've looked at inTechnophile, plus the Dell Inspiron Z and Acer's Travelmate-badged Timelines. Ultrathin laptops usually have 16:9 widescreens with a resolution of 1366 x 768 so you will have the same vertical resolution and almost the same physical screen depth. The main point to watch is not to buy a machine with Core 2 Solo processor, but to go for a Core 2 Duo. TheWikipedia CULV page tells you which model numbers are which.Bugged by DoubleClickI frequently get searches from Google or Bing where what looks like a straightforward web address gets modified in the browser to one where "doubleclick" has been added. These searches invariably fail: I get a plain white browser screen and a frustrated feeling! I know DoubleClick is a well-known spyware, but I can't seem to get rid of it. I am using Internet Explorer&nbsp;8 and Kaspersky antivirus protection on a Sony laptop running Windows XP Pro&nbsp;SP3.David HuntJS:This is usually a spyware and/or adware problem, so run a good spyware remover, such as SuperAntiSpyware. The infection may well have changed your hosts file. You can change it back to the default Hosts file by going toMicrosoft's Fix It 50267 pageand clicking "Fix this problem".Perhaps an even better answer is to go to theMicrosoft Most Valuable Professionalssite and download a Hosts file that also blocks a lot of advertisements. Where an advert would appear, you'll get a panel saying that your browser cannot find the site. Basically, your new Hosts file is redirecting these sites to 127.0.0.1, which is your own computer. For example, a line in Hosts that says 127.0.0.1 google.com will stop your browser from reaching Google.By the way, DoubleClick is not spyware, it's an advertising service company that Google bought for $3.1bn. The ad-blocking hosts file should stop its ads from appearing.TV Tuner driverI have upgraded my PC to Windows 7, but the TV tuner card has stopped working and I have been told that the 64-bit version of Windows 7 doesn't support TV cards.Dave CaseJS:The 64-bit version of Windows 7 does support TV cards, and Windows 7 should find a driver automatically – as long as it has been supplied to Microsoft. If a company has written a driver but not supplied it to Microsoft, then it should be available on the manufacturer's website. Not every peripheral that worked with Windows XP has a 64-bit driver for Windows 7. However, the Windows 7 compatibility list includes 163 items in the list of TV tuners with 64-bit drivers, so there could well be one for your TV tuner. Anyone planning to upgrade a PC to Windows 7 should runMicrosoft's Upgrade Advisor. Running this on a 32-bit system tells you nothing about 64-bit compatibility, so you have to check for all the drivers manually.USB ports neededI hope to replace an ageing Dell Dimension desktop. I have eight USB devices so currently use six rear USB ports plus a hub. The Dell Inspiron only has four rear ports and Dell tells me that it is not possible to add any more. Is it the usual practice nowadays to rely on hubs?Andrew PattersonJS:There are still machines around with eight USB ports, an example being the HP Pavilion Elite HPE-053uk, aimed at gamers. However, you can add an extra four USB 2.0 ports to many desktop PCs by fitting an internal PCI expansion card such as theNewLink. These and similar FireWire expansion cards are aimed at users with older PCs that only have original USB ports. You may be able to reduce your reliance on USB by connecting some external peripherals, particularly hard drives, via FireWire instead. External powered hubs work pretty well for many devices, but you would have to experiment to find which of yours work best when plugged in directly, rather than via a hub.
CrunchPad becomes the JoojooFusion Labs says it will release the Joojoo computer – which used to be the CrunchPad – at midnight tomorrow.Bing maps the futureMicrosoft has added more viewing features and applications to the maps with its Bing search engine.UK gets KTNingThe Digital Systems Knowledge Transfer Network (KTN) has been set up "to bring together business, academia, and government to drive technology innovation and create wealth for the UK".Jog offWii players can burn "up to 400 calories per hour" by using jOG (£25) to control game characters by jogging on the spot.Expert tunecheckerMartin Lewis of the MoneySavingExpert website has launched a site to compare online MP3 music prices.Science Museum LaunchballThe Science Museum has released Launchball, its physics-flavoured online game, as an app for the Apple iPhone and iPod touch.Mental illness onlineA US company has launched a social networking site where people with mental health conditions can share experiences anonymously.Solar chargerThe Ethical Superstore has the Freeloader Pico (£17), a small solar-powered charger for popular mobile phones.
It's easy to imagine a digital camera with a large touchscreen that offers the ease of use of an Apple iPhone, but that also has a good-quality 5x zoom lens, automatic focusing, image stabilisation, low-light capabilities, electronic flash, and a high megapixel count. It's easy to imagine that the Canon IXUS 200 IS (AKA SD980 IS) is that sort of thing, but it isn't. Instead, it's a somewhat expensive hybrid.The IXUS is, at least, the right sort of place to start. As with other IXUS compacts, the 200 IS looks chic and feels solid. The f/2.8 lens goes from a 24mm wide-angle to 120mm telephoto, there are ISO speed ratings from 80 to 1600, shutter speeds as long as 15 seconds, and a maximum resolution of 4,000 x 3,000 pixels (12MP). But there isn't a T-W rocker for zooming: the 200 IS has a tiny knob in front of the shutter button, and there's no separate viewfinder for old-school photographers like me.The back of the 200 IS looks something like a classic Nokia mobile phone: there's a circular four-way controller with a button at its centre, and wing-like buttons on each side. A lot of functionality has been implemented using these, rather than the touchscreen. Canon claims this gives you the best of both worlds. I reckon you're paying for both the touchscreen and the buttons without getting the value from either.Some touch functions are useful. For example, you can touch the screen to tell the camera where you want it to focus, and it's easier to use icons to set obscure modes (Aquarium, Beach, Foliage, Fireworks, Snow) rather than a jog dial. But using a gesture to move from one picture to another seems a bit pointless when you've got a mini-controller.And although the picture quality is excellent for a point-and-shoot compact, 12MP is pushing it for the tiny 1/2.3 sensor. (With theG11, for example, Canon has gone backwards to 10MP from the G10's 14.7MP, and the 200 IS is trying to extract more pixels per square centimetre than the G10.)Still, the pictures are sharp and rather neutral, without the warm richness that I've noticed (and, to be honest, enjoyed) in some Canon cameras. The shots are slightly warmer than ones from the Nikon CoolPix used for comparison purposes, but they make the Nikon look wrong. If you bought a 200 IS, then I think you would be happy with the results. But it seems to me that the touchscreen doesn't deliver enough benefits to justify the £329 suggested price, and there are better-value compacts even at the discounted price of £250.Pros:well made; good specification; great lens; touchscreen makes some things easier.Cons:mainly button operated; touch screen bumps up the price; LCD looks grainy.canon.co.uk
Last month,researchersfoundasecurityflawin the SSL protocol, which is used to protect sensitive web data. The protocol is used for online commerce, webmail, and social networking sites. Basically, hackers could hijack an SSL session and execute commands without the knowledge of either the client or the server. Thelist of affected products is enormous.If this sounds serious to you, you're right. It is serious. Given that, what should you do now? Should you not use SSL until it's fixed, and only pay for internet purchases over the phone? Should you download some kind of protection? Should you take some other remedial action? What?If you read the IT press regularly, you'll see this sort of question again and again. The answer for this particular vulnerability, as for pretty much any other vulnerability you read about, is the same: do nothing. That's right, nothing. Don't panic. Don't change your behaviour. Ignore the problem, and let the vendors figure it out.There are several reasons for this. One, it's hard to figure out which vulnerabilities are serious and which are not. Vulnerabilities such as this happen multiple times a month. They affect different software, different operating systems, and different web protocols. The press either mentions them or not, somewhat randomly; just because it's in the news doesn't mean it's serious.Two, it's hard to figure out if there's anything you can do. Many vulnerabilities affect operating systems or internet protocols. The only sure fix would be to avoid using your computer. Some  vulnerabilities have surprising consequences. The SSL vulnerability mentioned abovecould be used to hackTwitter. Did you expect that? I sure didn't.Three, the odds of a particular vulnerability affecting you are small. There are a lot of fish in the internet, and you're just one of billions.Four, often you can't do anything. These vulnerabilities affect clients and servers, individuals and corporations. A lot of your data isn't under your direct control – it's on your web-based email servers, in some corporate database, or in a cloud computing application. If a vulnerability affects the computers running Facebook, for example, your data is at risk, whether you log in to Facebook or not.It's much smarter to have a reasonable set of default security practices and continue doing them. This includes:1. Install an antivirus program if you run Windows, and configure it to update daily. It doesn't matter which one you use; they're all about the same. For Windows, I likethe free version of AVG Internet Security. Apple Mac and Linux users can ignore this, as virus writers target the operating system with the largest market share.2. Configure your OS and network router properly. Microsoft's operating systems come with a lot of security enabled by default; this is good. But have someone who knows what they're doing check the configuration of your router, too.3. Turn on automatic software updates. This is the mechanism by which your software patches itself in the background, without you having to do anything. Make sure it's turned on for your computer, OS, security software, and any applications that have the option. Yes, you have to do it for everything, as they often have separate mechanisms.4. Show common sense regarding the internet. This might be the hardest thing, and the most important. Know when an email is real, and when you shouldn't click on the link. Know when a website is suspicious. Know when something is amiss.5. Perform regular backups. This is vital. If you're infected with something, you may have to reinstall your operating system and applications. Good backups ensure you don't lose your data – documents, photographs, music – if that becomes necessary.That's basically it. I could givea longer listof safe computing practices, but this short one is likely to keep you safe. After that, trust the vendors. They spent all last month scrambling to fix the SSL vulnerability, and they'll spend all this month scrambling to fix whatever new vulnerabilities are discovered. Let that be their problem.•Bruce Schneieris BT's chief security technology officer
Pretty well, though really it's too soon to say. The Net Applications website put its market share for November – the operating system's first full month – at 4%, which means it won'tovertake Windows XP (69%)any time soon. However, Windows 7 has overtaken all versions of Mac OS X combined, and on a daily tracking basis,it hit 5.85% on 6 December.It's no coincidence this was a Sunday. NetApps gets its numbers by measuring website hits. It seems there are people who play with Windows 7 over the weekend, after using Windows XP or Vista at work during the week.Last month, Microsoft's boss, Steve Ballmer, told its annual shareholder meeting: "We've already sold twice as many units of Windows 7 than any other operating system we've ever launched in a comparable time." – but he didn't provide any numbers Of course, as PCs are cheaper and the market is larger, each new version should sell better, and Windows Vista also sold well initially.In the longer term, Windows 7 has to satisfy the needs of both consumers and businesses in order to persuade them to upgrade. This isn't as easy as it sounds. First, people tend to like, and stick with, what they know; and second, they will often resist upgrading if the new system doesn't run their existing software.The early indicators suggest that Windows 7 is being reasonably well accepted. The Technologizer website ran a survey onThe State of Windows 7 Satisfaction (http://bit.ly/windows7survey), and based on more than 550 responses, 70% were "extremely satisfied" and 24% were "somewhat satisfied" with the new operating system.As you'd expect, people who had been using Windows Vista were happier than the ones who had been using XP: 79% of Vista users were "extremely satisfied" with Windows 7 against only 61% of XP users. Vista users have a simpler upgrade path to Windows 7, and relatively little re-learning to do. It's still quite a jump for XP users, though it's a much smaller jump than switching to Mac OS X or Linux.
That's the secret everyone wants to know, after the maker of the iPod made a surprise deal to purchase a small music startup last weekend.The move to buylala.com, which lets users store and share their music libraries online, and is used by Google for its OneBox music service, took many by surprise – but has since generated an avalanche of speculation about Apple's motivations, and the value of deal.While the deep secrets of Apple's business are usually only known to a select few, the Lala deal has seen a large volume of information spilling out, even if much of it is contradictory.Conflicting reports have attached various numbers to the deal but they fluctuate wildly, from a low watermark of $3m (£1.8m) all the way up to a high of $80m (£48m) and seemingly everywhere between. Each figure is supposedly authoritative, with various media outlets squabbling with each other over the accuracy of each other's figures.Putting the price to one side, however, the far more important issue is why Apple bought Lala – and what it intends to do as a result. That, too, is a secret … although it is at least a little easier to guess the motivation of Steve Jobs and his generals.Lala's business has been through several incarnations since it was founded in 2006. Originally, it was built as a way for people to trade CDs with each other: subscribers could swap batches of CDs for a small fee – the implicit assumption was always that they would then rip the music onto their hard drives and pass the disc on shortly afterwards.These days, the company instead focuses on an internet-based shop and music-sharing service that is respected for its clever use of cloud computing. Users can choose to buy or upload their own music to Lala's service, and create playlists of songs that other subscribers can listen to. Users can listen once to a song for free, pay 10c for a version to play online, or 79c for a download.Some have suggested this expertise in online storage and streaming could be something Apple wants to use in iTunes. It's certainly a viable theory, given that services such as Spotify and Last.fm have proved hugely successful, but have yet to be mimicked by iTunes, which doesn't allow streaming of full songs.Others have commented on a recent deal to supply Facebook and Google with the music. This is less likely, as it is believed to be the case that the licensing deals Lala brokered are not transferable to any company that may acquire it.Most of those who are familiar with the companies in question suggest it could be much more straightforward: a talent acquisition, in which Apple decided it wanted to hire a group of clever, seasoned and well-respected engineers – as well as Lala's dynamic founder, Bill Nguyen.It's the option least pleasing to conspiracy theorists, but until Apple reveals internet streaming features or a new online music-hosting service, the most prosaic answer could be the best guess here.
For decades, speech recognition has been a breakthrough waiting to happen. The other day I triedGoogle's voice search on my mobileafter someone had recommended it. I spoke three search queries into my phone (by holding down the telephone icon) and it got all three correct. Being able to search on the move without typing in letters is a really useful facility – another indication of the coming of age of the mobile.For years I have been ribbed by colleagues for saying that the next year was going to be"the year of the mobile". But there is no getting away from it. So, here we go: 2010 will be the year of the mobile. No other consumer product comes near it in terms of continuous innovation, cannibalisation of other products coupled with a rapidly expanding user base.Next year promises to be a corker, witha 10% increase in sales predicted by Nokiaafter this year's 7% decline. In this invigorating environment the manufacturers are selling really smart new models – includingNokia's N900,Motorola's Droid, based on Google'sAndroidoperating system, and thePalm Pre. And don't dare write off theBlackBerry, which is now becoming rampant among teenagers (for its free instant messaging). This is an attempt to stall Apple's all-conquering iPhone and iPod touch from expanding still further as the number of operators selling them rises – offset by increasing disillusion among cash-strapped developers.The coming year will see the "phone" part of the mobile become increasingly marginalised as networking applications such as Twitter and Facebook and data-driven traffic take over, following Apple's lead in providing "all-you-can-eat" tariffs. On some models, such as the N900, it's already tricky finding the phone function. Next year, mobiles will take over more of the functions of a PC and other devices, including satnav, even though I have yet to experience speedy satellite signals where you most need them – in the middle of a city. Ilja Laurs, chief exectuive of thegetjar.comapp store, says if this year was all about apps, 2010 will be all about handsets.Apple's most formidable challenger is Google, whose Android OS will appear in an increasing number of phones. It undercuts the iPhone in price while gathering all of Google's services behind one screen, including free "turn by turn" voice navigation (initially only in the US), an innovation that has, in effect, assassinated an entire industry. You used to have to pay hundreds of pounds but it will soon be free: another device gobbled up by the ravenous appetite of the mobile. No one should underestimate Nokia, which still has 35% of the global market, but models such as the N900, while technologically superior to the iPhone (better camera, video etc) have been left behind in the race for applications and – all important – useability. No touchscreen I have tested comes near to the smooth efficiency of the iPhone/iPod touch.Next year will see barcode readers – which can take phones directly to a website – included in more models, along with location-based services and use of sensors. It is also likely to be the year when mobile advertising takes off in the west, not least because of Google's acquisition ofAdMobenabling it to put an ad at the bottom of our mobile screens. It could give Google the dominance in mobile advertising that it already has with contextual ads on the web. Next year will also see proliferating numbers of ebooks competing with Apple's rumoured iTablet for our attention in the books and newspapers sector – with the mobile phone very much there as a contender.Already, well over half of all the people in the world have a mobile of some kind. It won't be very long before practically everyone on the planet will be connected to each other and, through social networks such as Twitter or whatever, will in theory be able to communicate with each other. It is an awesome prospect with unfathomable political and economic consequences.twitter.com/vickeegan
From "technology-baffled grannies" to "pale-skinned gaming addicts", there are so many stereotypes pinging around the internet that sometimes it can feel like an amphetamine-fuelled game of Pong. But there's one cliche in particular that annoysDanah Boyd: the "digital native"."There's nothing native about young people's engagement with technology," she says, adamantly.The Microsoft researcher, who has made a career from studying the way younger people use the web, doesn't think much of the widely held assumption that children are innately better at coping with the web or negotiating the hurdles of digital life. Instead, she suggests, they're pretty much like everyone else."Young people are learning, they're learning about the social world around them," she says. "The social world around them today has mediated technologies, thus in order to learn about the social world they're learning about the mediated technologies. And they're leveraging that to work out the shit that kids have always worked out: peer sociality, status, their first crush."Digging downIt's no surprise she takes exception, really: as one of the first digital anthropologists to dig into the way people use social networking sites, Boyd has a track record of exposing the truths that underpin many of our assumptions about the online world.She joined Microsoft Research's New England lab in 2008, after stints at a variety of institutions including MIT's famed Media Lab, the University of California, Berkeley, and Harvard's Berkman Center for Internet &amp; Society. Along the way she gained influence for her insights into the social web – not just by conducting studies of how many kids use Facebook, but by taking a closer look at what is going on.One of her breakthrough moments was talking aboutthe class and race divides that exist between users of MySpace and Facebook– websites she characterised as "new representations of the class divide in American youth". This idea – that the social network you choose says a lot about your underlying social biases —initially met resistance, but the concepts were quickly assimilated and the observation now seems fairly mundane."The big joke with anthropologists is that we consistently make ourselves irrelevant by what we jokingly call the 'like, duh' factor," she says. "If we're successful, we help you see something that's obvious once you see it. It's this constant move of helping people step back and see."When I look at some of the stuff I do with teenagers, at this point a lot of it has become obvious," she says. "But not when I was making these arguments six years ago."Lately, her work has been about explaining new ways of interpreting the behaviour we see online, and understanding that the context of online activity is often more subtle – and more familiar – than we first imagine.Last week she outlined some examples at theSupernovaconference in San Francisco, including the case of a young man from one of the poorest districts of Los Angeles who was applying to a prestigious American college. The applicant said he wanted to escape the influence of gangs and violence, but the admissions officer was appalled when he discovered that the boy's MySpace page was plastered with precisely the violent language and gang imagery he claimed to abhor. Why was he lying about his motivations, asked the university? He wasn't, says Boyd: in his world, showing the right images online was a key part of surviving daily life.Another example centred on a teenager who killed an abusive parent after signalling her mental state on her MySpace page. While newspapers chased the grim details of her diary, Boyd reached out to the group of friends who were left discussing their anger, confusion and sadness online (she calls it "digital outreach").Understanding what's happening online is especially pertinent while discussions rage about how people's attitude to privacy is changing – particularly the idea that digital natives have a vastly different approach to privacy from their predecessors. Instead, Boyd says, activities that strike adults as radically new are often more easily understood from the perspective of teenagers."Kids have always cared about privacy, it's just that their notions of privacy look very different than adult notions," she says. "Kids don't have the kind of privacy that we assume they do.""As adults, by and large, we think of the home as a very private space – it's private because we have control over it. The thing is, for young people it's not a private space – they have no control. They have no control over who comes in and out of their room, or who comes in and out of their house. As a result the online world feels more private because it feels like it has more control."Debunking mythsThe concept of control – and who has it – is central to Boyd's work, and it applies not only to debunking myths about teenage behaviour, but also similar ideas that have emerged about the rest of the web. Unlike some prognosticators who preach unstoppable revolution – including the likes of Chris Anderson, the editor-in-chief of Wired magazine and author of The Long Tail and Free – Boyd suggests that control remains, by and large, in the same places it always did."As a technologist, we all like 'techno-utopia', this is the great democratiser," she says. "Sure, we've made creation and distribution more available to anyone, but at the same time we've made those things irrelevant. Now the commodity isn't distribution, it's attention – and guess what? Who gets attention is still sitting on a power law curve … we're not actually democratising the whole system – we're just shifting the way in which we discriminate."It's a call to arms that most academic researchers would tend to avoid, but then Boyd admits to treading a fine line between academic and activist. After all, she adds, part of her purpose is to look at the very questions that make us feel uncomfortable."Part of it is that as a researcher, everybody's obsessed with Twitter and Facebook, and we've got amateur research out the wazoo," she says. "Plenty of scholars are jumping in and looking at very specific things. The questions I continue to want to ask are the things that are challenging to me: having to sit down and be forced to think about uncomfortable social stuff, it's really hard to get my head around it – which means it's exactly what I should dive in and deal with."
Andy Warhol talked of a time when everyone would be famous for 15 minutes. With hindsight, however, he might have wanted to revise that down to about five minutes. On today's web, phrases such as "here today, gone tomorrow" seem to involve ridiculously long timescales.People who moaned that blogging represented a move to shorter attention spans – 250-to-350-word posts rather than 1,000-word stories – have now seen blog posts start to look big and, frankly, old-fashioned. Today's trendsetters are using "microblogging" sites such asTumblr,PosterousandSoup.io, which are taking the opportunity for creative "borrowing" to new heights.But the smash hit of 2009 has been (apologies: I know this will cause pain) Twitter, where 1,000-word stories are reduced to 140-character tweets. Short attention spans R us.Twitter's rapid growth and open programming interface have given the site a wide impact. Hundreds, possibly thousands, of ancillary sites and services have been launched to help Twitter users post pictures, track followers, or – more usefully, from a commercial point of view – find out what the "hive mind" is thinking.Twitterfallis just one example. More recently,Listoriousstepped in to make it easier to find and explore lists made using Twitter's new list feature, whileThe Twitter Tim.escleverly turned selected tweets into a personalised newspaper. How many of these sites will survive is, of course, open to question. Some are less like standalone sites than parasites.Major web players such as Facebook, Google, and Microsoft also got involved. Both Google and Microsoft signed deals for Twitter searches, while Facebook paid it the ultimate compliment of more or less copying its service. Or, perhaps, copyingFriendFeed, which many users link to both Twitter and Facebook.Facebook, while far from new, was another big player in 2009, reaching more than 350 million users. And throughFacebook Connect, it has extended its presence across the web. Once you have a Facebook identity – and you must have one, mustn't you? – then you can use it to access a growing number of sites and services. And that's not necessarily a bad thing. The web might be a kinder, more polite place if people said things under their real names, which is what Facebook's about.Those in search of their five minutes of fame or, more likely, five minutes of fun fun fun, headed for YouTube. Although it has been challenged by rivals such asVimeoandMicrosoft's Soapbox (RIP), its dominance has not been seriously threatened. Only the pornographers have been able to build much of a following outside YouTube.Which is not to say that YouTube owns the web video market. The BBC has made a huge impact with its iPlayer catchup service, and in the US,Hulu has enjoyed great success with TV series and movies. Of course, both sites are showing videos that YouTube would love to offer, at a profit, and it will be interesting to see how this plays out.Music has been a significant player in the growth of the web sinceNapster, and its influence continues to grow.Spotifyhas made the biggest impact this year, gaining mindshare lost byLast.fmandPandora. Meanwhile,Pitchforkhas expanded its role as the web's authoritative music magazine, andThe Hype Machinecame to prominence as a source of instant erudition by tracking the music blogs.Almost finally, it may be that we are seeing the return not just of the browser wars but of the search engine wars as well. Google still rules the world, but inBing, it now has a competitor that does some things better and has, in Microsoft, an owner with deep pockets. Alas, Bing also does many things a lot worse.Possibly the most contentious part of this year's list is celebrity gossip. The argument against would be summed up by a Wikipedian in two words: "not notable". The argument for is that sites such asPerez HiltonandAOL's TMZare now helping to drive the news agenda. Even if you aren't interested in Michael Jackson's death, Tiger Woods's affairs or whatever, this stuff has become impossible to avoid. This is one case where many people would prefer the web's short attention span to be even shorter.Blogging/microbloggingNow easier than falling off a log.TumblrMultimedia microblogging plus Twitter-style following.PosterousGoes from instant microblogging into lifestreaming.SoupA "super-easy" tumblelog for scrapbook keeping and lifestreaming.BloggerFast way to start blogging; training wheels for Wordpress.BloglinesFor reading web feeds. Smart and clean.WordpressFree, and most importantly spam-free, blogging.BrowsersDo we all need five browsers nowadays?ChromeNow here for Mac, and anticipating future world domination via Chrome OS.Firefox&nbsp;Everyone's favourite is under attack from all sides.MaxthonBased on IE code. If it stays "hip in China" it could reach a large global audience.CartoonsEveryone needs some relaxation. This is a visual one.Dilbert&nbsp;It wouldn't be so funny if it wasn't so true.XKCD&nbsp;Stick-figure strip poking fun at geek topics and relationships.Celebrity gossipNo one needs this stuff, but it's starting to drive world news and web traffic.TMZRose to fame when it broke news of Michael Jackson's death.Perez HiltonAmong the bitchiest of goss sites and often involved in 'interesting' celeb baiting.GawkerNew York-based media alert and gossip blog network, with fingers in many pies.Create/collaborateWith all of us now living more of our lives online, these sites just scratch the surface.Netvibes&nbsp;Your to-do lists, news, weather and photos on one page.Scribd&nbsp;Shares 35bn words online: they can't all be wrong.Slideshare&nbsp;Like YouTube for PowerPoint decks.Zamzar&nbsp;Useful: converts files from one format to another.FilmSites to see before heading for the latest blockbuster at your local multiplex.IMDbThe most authoritative site about all things film and TV, which is why Amazon bought it.Rotten TomatoesCollects online film reviews, aggregates a score out of 100 and rates the film "fresh" or "rotten"./FilmSaid to be the favourite film blog of directors Jason Reitman and Darren Aronofsky, /Film features news, reviews, interviews and a special UK update each Friday.CinematicalTerrific film blog with a Hollywood focus.GamingA field where handheld, bedroom and Flash games are becoming mainstreamEurogamer&nbsp;Reportage, with breadth, if not always depth.The Independent Gaming Source&nbsp; A great place to pick up on tomorrow's breakthrough Xbox Live Arcade, WiiWare and PSN  hits.Pocket Gamer&nbsp;Still by far the best site on handheld gaming.Gamasutra&nbsp;Where professional games creators hang out, and sometimes get jobsGeek squadHere be programmers …Stack Overflow&nbsp;Where programmers gather to try to solve their problems.The Daily WTF&nbsp;Daily dispatches from the coding warzone.Joel On Software&nbsp;Essays by a former Microsoftie, now head of Fog Creek Software.Government/public services/politicsRecycle Now&nbsp;Winner&nbsp;after a slight false start of the government'sShow Us A Better Way competition. What can you recycle close by?British and Irish Legal Information Institute&nbsp;A database of laws. Only survives hand-to-mouth on voluntary donations; where's yours?What Do They Know?&nbsp;Makes filing a Freedom Of Information request as easy as sending an email. Too easy, some in power think.Upmystreet&nbsp;All the detail on your area you could ever want.They Work For You&nbsp;A site set up by volunteers to keep tabs on our elected members of parliament – and our unelected peers.Link economyWith millions of links on the web, we all need sites for sharing the best ones.Digg&nbsp;Still the reigning champion of where the latest internet memes are though not always polite.Delicious&nbsp;The thinking person's link aggregation site. We use it.Popurls&nbsp;Aggregating the aggregators: the web in a window.Metafilter&nbsp;Living if isolated proof that a site can be successful without pictures or video, and can also host thoughtful conversations.Slashdot&nbsp;Now looking venerable and old, but "News for nerds" site with a jokey name (/.) still attracts a big, and often knowledgable, audience.Techmeme&nbsp;Technology news chosen by computer, though it's now refined by human editors.Location, locationServices like these blossom with a mobile phone that can access the internet.Dopplr&nbsp;"Share your future travel plans with friends and colleagues", then find out if others will&nbsp;be there too.Qype&nbsp;Localised search for pubs, restaurants, etc; also a bit of a social network.Loopt&nbsp;"Transforms your mobile phone into a social compass".Brightkite&nbsp;A "location-based social network".MapsThe flipside of location-based services: seeing where you are.OpenStreetMap&nbsp;A&nbsp;rights-free map created by people like you. Remarkably detailed and precise.Google Maps Street View&nbsp;Virtual tourism with practical applications, too.Money/finance/consumer fightbackWe all need someone on our side.Money Saving Expert&nbsp;Does what it says on the tin.Say No to 0870&nbsp;Direct-dial numbers, not expensive national-rate ones.Consumer Direct&nbsp;Government site for consumers.MusicLast.fm&nbsp;British-made, now CBS-owned, music recommendation station.Amazon&nbsp;Now has its own MP3 store in the UK as well as the US.Hype Machine&nbsp;Picks up the latest news by tracking the music blogs.Pitchfork&nbsp;The magazine of the music web, now with video, and lots of great lists.OffbeatThe Onion&nbsp;Still the satirical newspaper of record. If it's not in the Onion, it's probably happened.B3TA&nbsp;Beyond classification; its forum has spawned many memes … and more than its fair share of trolls.Lolcats&nbsp;respite from stress with daft cCaptioned cats and other animals.News Lite&nbsp;respite from stress with daft cGreat source of news that's much too trivial to print.Oddee&nbsp;Setting an internet standard for sets of curious and mildly amusing pictures, not cats.PostSecret&nbsp;Notes of secrets sent by people who want them posted. So they are.Passive-Aggressive Notes&nbsp;Would it be too much trouble for you to have a look?PhotographyFlickr&nbsp;The granddaddy of photo-sharing sites.Picnik&nbsp;Photo editing in your&nbsp;browser.Picasa&nbsp;Google's photo organisation and editing tool.DPreview&nbsp;The web's best guide to cameras. Now Amazon owned.ReferenceCIA Factbook&nbsp;All the data you need on pretty much anywhere.Wikipedia&nbsp;en.wikipedia.com the gradually growing user-edited encyclopaedia is Still a first port of call on most topics.Internet Archive/Wayback Machine&nbsp;The web in aspic. Useful for research into how the web used to look.Metacritic&nbsp;Aggregates reviews of movies and DVDs, TV programmes, music and gamesWikileaks&nbsp;Anonymous source of a huge range ofleaked documents. If you dig, there's something important thereSearchGoogle dominates but Bing is challenging, and Yahoo and Microsoft are left in the dust.Google&nbsp;So good it's become almost synonymous with search.Bing&nbsp;Microsoft would like you to bing it, but its "decision engine" still has a long way to go.Wolfram Alpha&nbsp;An "answer engine"that delivers when it has the data, but not that easy to use.Social softwareTwo years ago it was nascent; now it's embedded in our culture. Chances are high you're a member of at least one, and perhaps all, of these sites.Facebook&nbsp;Still changing and growing to become not just your home on the web, but your ID provider.LinkedIn&nbsp;Contact sports for business users.Ning&nbsp;One place to start your own social network – just as Madonna did – though it has yet to really take off.TravelExpediaStill the daddy when it comes to travel sites, and particularly good if you can bundle a flight with a hotel and other services.TripAdvisorEssential reading for the user reviews of hotels, but it now covers much more.LateroomsSpecialises in hotel discounts.Twitter, and associatedTwitter has proved itself over and over this year, from the Chinese earthquke to the Mumbai attacks to the Madoff fraud as a vector for news.Twitter&nbsp;The ur-site, where you can create an identity&nbsp;(or several).Twitter Tim.es&nbsp;Creates your personal newspaper based on your friend's tweets.Twitterfeed&nbsp;Posts blog contents to Twitter.TwitterCounter&nbsp;Graphs the growth in your followers.Twitterfall&nbsp;Tracks trending topics; enables custom searches.Listorious&nbsp;Twitter lists make it simple to follow large groups of Twitter users, and Listorious makes it easy to find the best lists.VideoYouTube&nbsp;Dominant provider of video content online.Vimeo&nbsp;Better rights control than YouTube and a cleaner interfaceBBC iPlayer&nbsp;The king of the online catchup services.Hulu&nbsp;The networks fight back with their own video site, which may make the UK in 2010. We hope.Videojug&nbsp;The motherlode of instructional videos, all in one place.Virtual worldsSecond Life&nbsp;Continues to exist and is, apparently, still popular, but not the media darling it was.Entropia Universe&nbsp;Set in a distant future on the untamed planet of Calypso.Club Penguin&nbsp;Minigame-tastic virtual world for youngkids.Moshi Monsters&nbsp;"Educational" virtual world for kids.Visual artsSaatchi Gallery&nbsp;Gallery, listings and artworks for sale.Art Daily&nbsp;The first "art newspaper" on the net.Culture 24&nbsp;Everything about UK galleries and museums.VisualisationInformation is Beautiful&nbsp;Creating effective infographics is one of today's key skills, and on this site, it's also an art.Infosthetics.com&nbsp;An archive of some of the finest examples of "information aesthetics".DabbleDB&nbsp;Create online databases and analyse them.• Which essential sites have we missed? Tell us below• This article was amended on Wednesday 9 December 2009. Picasa is no longer for Windows only; Streetwire.org is no longer operational. These have been corrected.
Together with the New York Times and the Washington Post, Google is introducingan experimental way of presenting news online. Using certain advantages of online publishingLiving Storiesorganises information according to how stories are developing.It suggests Google is entering a phase in which it is actively engaging with news organisations – by developing tools for them, for example. "We're looking to develop openly available tools that could aid news organisations in the creation of these pages or at least in some of the features," write software engineer Neha Singh and senior business project manager Josh Cohenon the Google blog.The Living Story feature – which works in a similar fashion to topic pages – groups content around a keywords such as "climate change" or "the war in Afghanistan".Binding it together using a story summary, the experiment prioritises content according to how important it is and displays it in different ways. Each topic comes with a visual timeline and a list of important events, and the option of filtering topics - in "the war in Afghanistan", for example, the reader can focus on "the troop debate" or "the Afghanistan elections".In addition,Living Stories offers useful waysof getting to information: the reader can filter the content by "events", "opinion", "graphic" or "quotes".But most interesting is that Living Stories remembers what users have read and keeps track of what they clicked on. It then highlights the changes and updates since their last visit to get rid of redundant information."The page is personalised to user reading patterns. When users leave the Living Story and come back to it later, the newest updates and events are presented at the top. If a user read a particular update on a previous visit, it is collapsed the next time the user returns," explains Google's Oliver Rickman.Living Stories andFastflip, an attempt to recreate aspects of print online,show that in addition to search Google is entering the news market from a second angle. The search engine is starting to develop technology to display news – while denying plans to get involved with content."Google is not involved with reporting or editing. That is done entirely by the staffs of the Times and the Post. Google provides the technology platform for Living Stories, the Times and Post's journalists write and edit the stories, and we collaborated to make the user interface fit with these news organisations' editorial vision," says Rickman.This might not save news organisations, but helping with the development of news packaging is definitely an option, and Living Stories an experiment worth keeping an eye on.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Tuesday was the second day in the court case between eBay and Craigslist, and interesting details continue to be thrown up as the two sides fight out their tempestuous relationship.A quick recap: the dispute, which goes back several years,focuses on eBay's minority shareholding in the classified site, which the company says was unfairly and illegally diluted. Craigslist (which has countersued) says that eBay used the confidential information it acquired from its link to Craigslist to launch its own, competing service - and that the structural changes were necessary to prevent the auction site's own illegal attempts to wrestle control away from the company's existing owners.Josh Silverman, the former eBay executivewho is now the boss of Skype, was the latest to take the stand -following appearances by Meg Whitman and Pierre Omidyar yesterday.Silverman, who held a seat on the Craigslist board from 2006 to 2007, told the court that Craigslist was only told aboutKijiji, eBay's competing classified site, 10 days before the site was launched. Why? Because Craigslist didn't seem to care about competitors. Buckmaster told him that serving the community meant that rival websites weren't a problem. "He said anyone who could serve the market was fine," Silverman told the court.However, an email exchange produced by Craigslist's lawyers suggested that eBay was aware that such competition could be a sensitive issue.Reuters has the full details, but the thrust of the exchange - between Silverman and eBay's top lawyer Brian Levey, is that they were acting carefully and deliberately."If we're going to compete, perhaps it's cleanest to have me be the board member since they'd have a much tougher time alleging that I'm using any confidential information to benefit our business," wrote Levey."Right, that could be true. However I'd expect that we would lose our Board seat right away, no?" responded Silverman, according to the email shown in court.Not sure who won that round, but Craigslist founder Craig Newmark and chief executive Jim Buckmaster are due to take the stand on Wednesday.
While Keith is slaving away counting your votes for our top 50 games of the noughties article - posts will be coming up next week - there have been plenty of game of the year lists to keep everyone interested. The latest is the Top 10 games of the year fromTime magazine. Unsurprisingly given the incessant hype Modern Warfare 2 is at number 1.  Batman: Arkham Asylum gets a deserved runners up spot but then it starts going wrong. DJ Hero at number 3?? Borderlands at number 4?? Actually, Borderlands probably deserves its slot given the rather marvellous online action. The real issue for me is the placing for Uncharted 2. The stunning PS3 adventure barely scraps in at 10. This puts is below the massively overhyped New Super Mario Bros on Wii but more controversially Halo: ODST. Yes, I know lists are opinion but how can anyone rate ODST's solid but derivitive action above Uncharted 2's rollercoaster beauty? Was it purely to drive traffic to their site? Or did I miss something in ODST? I doubt it. Uncharted 2 is a classic, ODST a solid interim product. Anyway the full list is:1. Modern Warfare 22. Batman: Arkham Asylum3. DJ Hero4. Borderlands5. New Super Mario Bros. Wii6. Geo-Defense Swarm7. Scribblenauts8. Halo: ODST9. Assassin's Creed 210. Uncharted 2What do you think then?  Agree with the list? Think ODST should be above Assassin's Creed 2 and Uncharted 2?
&bull; Despite hopes in the British games industry that the government could lend ahelping hand to make it more competitive, the pre-budget report revealed thatthere will be no tax break for game developers. Will the Tories move in to try and grab gamer votes?&bull; Nearly a month after the first reports broke thatMySpacewas in talks to buyimeem, a music/social networking service,the two announced a deal yesterday. How much? Suggestions of $1m have certainlymade it sound like it was a fire sale by the smaller company's investors.&bull; The latest episode of ourTech Weekly podcast is live, featuring interviews with Google UK's Matt Brittin - who discusses whether the search engine is stealing Rupert Murdoch's lunch - and MySpace Music's Courtney Holt, to explain thesocial network's new venture(which, incidentally, is what imeem has just become part of). Susi Weaser is joined by Vic Keegan and Mercedes Bunz for what is - would you believe - our 100th show.Listen now!You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Labour's "Twitter tsar" was swamped with hundreds of irreverent messages on the social media site yesterday after comedian Ross Noble launched a campaign which saw her bombarded with questions.Kerry McCarthy, MP for Bristol East, was made the government'snew media campaigns spokeswoman in August, and was named the most influential MP on Twitter earlier this year. McCarthy who has more than 4,000 followers on the site, has declared that next year's election will be the first "new media election".Yesterday she was given a taste of what her colleagues can expect when Noble, who has almost 30,000 followers, cajoled Twitter users into messaging McCarthy, who tweets under@KerryMP.Noble, or@realrossnoble, launched "Twitterbombard Tuesday" last week, encouraging people to target Doritos and Nutri-Grain. He reiterated the rules yesterday. "We bombard daft questions to one tweeter then enjoy the confused replies," he wrote, adding: "Be nice."Questions ranging from the serious: "If the government wants to save money and the planet, why don't they switch off some of the numerous unnecessary streetlights?" to the less serious: "Can you tame a crow?"McCarthy appeared initially confused by the queries, asking: "Am I taking part in an 'ask Kerry silly questions contest', and no-one's told me?" but soon discovered Noble's campaign, and answered more than 100 questions in six hours."I thought a lot of the questions were really funny and I tried to respond to them in the spirit in which they were intended," she said. Asked if she would wear a gorilla suit to parliament, she replied: "I don't think it's expressly forbidden, I could give it a try," and challenged to start a Mexican wave in the Commons chamber, she replied: "We do it on the Labour benches when Nick Clegg is speaking. You just don't see it happening.""I think the people who sent the messages didn't have a clue who I was, and I'm not sure Ross Noble did either," McCarthy said. "I'm sure they expected a humourless response, because that's the perception a lot of people have of politicians."Noble has already set the target for next week's Twitterbombard:David Cameron. However the Conservative party leader does not currently use Twitter, having infamously declared"too many twits might make a twat"in an interview on Absolute radio this July.
It's our 100th programme (that is,if you don't include this one) and there's a definite Rupert Murdoch theme.First we unpick the implications of Google's new 'First Click Free' plan - will it be enough to pacify the press baron, and what will it mean for the average reader's pocket? We'll be talking to Matt Brittin, head of Google UK, to find out.And we hear more from the Murdoch stable when we find out all about the new plans forMySpace Music- we'll be discussing whether it's going to be enough to recapture those heady days when it was the world's leading social network.Bobbie brings us news ofplans to give schoolchildren internet safety lessons,MIT winning a hi-tech challengeset by US military research agency Darpa, the launch ofreal-time entries into search resultspages by Google and Sir Richard Branson finally unveilingthe first vehicle specifically built to take tourists into space.Don't forget - we want your tech highlights of 2009 and your predictions for what's going to be big in 2010 - leave them below please and we'll be reviewing them over this week for our Christmas programmes.Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
The Boxee Box from DLinkForget the browser wars, I'm much more interested in the battle being waged in the living room. Catch-up video services like theBBC's iPlayerandHuluin the US are bringing the internet into the living room, not only on your laptop but also onto the flat screen hanging on the wall. Consumer electronic giants, satellite and cable television providers and computer and networking companies are working on devices and services that mix online video, on-demand movies and broadcast television.In October, I wrote aboutBoxee, a social television start-upbased on the open-source media centre softwareXBMC. In the past, you had to install Boxee on a spare computer or on the Apple TV digital video player. CEO and founder Avner Ronen said that they were working with device and set-top box makers to create aBoxee box, and now, it has been unveiled. The device built by Taiwanese networking gear makerDLinkdoesn't look like any of the company's other network routers or networked storage devices. It's trying to look hip enough to fit in with the rest of the home electronics kit in your living room.It comes with all the connectors and slots you'd expect. It has onboard WiFi and an ethernet port plus two USB ports. To connect to your high-definition television, it's got an HDMI port, and it's got aS/PDIF optical audio portas well asphono audio connectors. It also has a slot for an SD memory card, and a remote control.Redesigned interfaceIn addition to rolling out the box,Boxee also announced the next version of its software, abeta release, so it comes with a little less of a health warning than the alpha versions early adopters have been using. The Boxee beta also boasts a reworked interface. The vertical menu on the right-hand side has moved to the top of the home screen. On the left of the screen, you'll see recommendations from friends on Boxee, Facebook or Twitter. In the middle of the screen, you'll see featured content and recommendations from Boxee "staff and partners". Ka-ching go the cash registers with one of the revenue streams that Boxee is developing to make money off its software. On the right of the screen, you can queue up things to watch and listen to.Apps for the living roomThe iPhone-inspired app craze knows no bounds. Not only do all new smart phones require apps and their own app stores, but we're also seeing previously closed systems - likeyour television and your set-top box- open up to apps. Boxee's creators have also reworked the applications screen, allowing you to sort them by their freshness or their popularity. If you run Windows, they have changed the graphics library from OpenGL to DirectX. The software also will take advantage ofDXDA, which offloads heavy tasks such as deinterlacing to the graphics processor.You can sign up to be an early tester of the software or wait until 7 January when the beta is released to much fanfare at the CES consumer electronics mega-show in the US.The deal with DLink is non-exclusive so we might see more Boxee boxes, but for that to happen, the DLink launch has to be successful. It faces a number of challenges. It will hit the stores early next year and cost about $200, which is a bit pricy compared tocompetitor Roku, which sells similar devices starting at $80. Roku started as a device to stream video rentals from Amazon and Netflix, but it has since begun adding other applications. Even if Boxee's Box is a big hit, there is a question of how big of a market there is for such devices. Roku has only sold a few hundred thousand of the devices, and Apple TV hasn't exactly been an iPod-like hit. Will the Boxee Box find a place in your living room?
Early footage and the first teaser trailer has been released from the next step towards impending Lego World Domination – Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4. Lego is being quite coy about content, but the videos look very promising indeed, showing off a dizzying array of features: more than 100 playable characters and free-roaming and broomstick-flying modes are shown as well as more linear adventuring fare.Lego video games are up there with Germany/Italy 1940 in the Unlikely but Strangely Effective Alliances stakes. You wouldn't expect the mixture to work – a computer game version of a toy based on a stackable interface. It is at first hard to see what Lego brings to the party, but there's certainly something. Perhaps it is because, whatever our age, most of us grew up with the stuff, or perhaps Lego is just intrinsically fun somehow.They're not gaming newcomers, though. Having built their fortune on the famous stacking blocks, Lego were commendably early to the video game party. Lego Island was released in 1997, and has been followed by no less than 36 more titles including the recent – and terrific – Lego Rock Band and Lego Indiana Jones 2, which won four and five stars respectively from the Guardian's game reviewers.From the video it seems the game will stick closely to the original storylines; most of its vignettes are scenes from the books. This is a good thing: the Lego games have succeeded so far by getting the basics right. I'll have no silly new storylines, please: I want to see Harry, Ron, Hermione et al, in Lego form, zooming around on broomsticks and defeating Voldemort, the miniature plastic swine.Lego know they're on to a good thing here. Fans of Potter will likely love it. Fans of previous Lego games will likely love it, and if it's as good as previous offerings have been, we'll likely love it. No pressure, but as long as Lego don't fluff the fundamentals this should be a big hit.•Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4 is due for release some time in 2010
The Saboteur sets up one of those delicious "what if?" scenarios that games are so good at: it's essentially Grand Theft Auto transplanted to occupied Paris in 1940.You take control of Sean Devlin, a hard-bitten, cynical and imaginatively sweary Irishman who was a car mechanic and nascent racing driver, before a nasty encounter with SS bigwig Kurt Dierker on the eve of the war saw his best mate Jules murdered, and Devlin relocate to a dubious Parisian adult club, the Belle de Nuit, and join the Resistance. While adhering to the free-roaming, third-person action-adventure blueprint popularised by GTA, The Saboteur brings plenty of its own to the party. Parts of Paris dominated by the Nazis, for example, are rendered in grimy black-and-white (until you strike blows against the oppressors and they regain their colour), Devlin can climb buildings and hide from Nazis (like in Assassin's Creed) and, Hitman-style, he can steal Nazis' uniforms (as long as he performed a blood-free kill) and employ stealth, although if he gets too close to enemies, they will see through him.An excellent Suspicion system endows the Nazis with an authentically paranoid outlook, and black marketers and garages keep Devlin well supplied. The storyline, in which Devlin performs missions for different wings of the Resistance, plus British Intelligence officers Bishop and the beautiful, flirtatious Skylar – all the while seeking his nemesis Dierker – is excellent, and as the game progresses, the missions become satisfyingly elaborate.  The game's systems, too, are so well set up that you can take different approaches to fulfilling those tasks, something of a Holy Grail with such games. Although at times you suspect that people in 1940 didn't talk in such a 21st-century manner, the game's evocation of Occupied Paris, backed by a period soundtrack, is thoroughly convincing, and several missions centre on the city's enduring landmarks.There's only one major downer, and it doesn't involve anything that happens in the game: after it finished The Saboteur – by far the best game it has ever made – Pandemic was closed down by a credit-crunched Electronic Arts. The Saboteur, though, serves as a perfect epitaph for the unfortunate developer.
At one time the only sports star better known for his PlayStation games than real life, Tony Hawk's eponymous skateboarding series has been losing direction recently, especially since rivals such as EA's Skate appeared.So it's certainly a bold move to bounce back by releasing the biggest (and most expensive) retail pack I've ever seen – a trick that Activision used well with Guitar Hero. Can they pull it off again? Initially, what the motion-sensitive skateboard adds to the experience is impressive, delivering a true sense of immersion in an otherwise by-the-numbers game. Able to sense which way you're leaning or whether you're raising the nose or tail, it's sturdy enough to handle all but the most overfed family members. If only control was as reliable as build quality.On the game's easiest of three settings, it's simple enough to get the hang of. You set off by pushing your foot along the ground past one of the side motion sensors, lean for controlling direction and reach down to perform a grab. Sometimes, simply wiggling back and forth will get you through and you can practice your skills on any park you've already unlocked. And once you get used to the annoyingly long loading times between challenges, it's easy to get sucked into the action.Graphically, if you discount the occasional clipping and camera angle issues, Ride manages to sit somewhere in between Crazy Taxi and the previous Tony Hawk games in terms of realism and moves at a decent frame rate throughout. However, with the main single player mode built around completing city-based challenges, the controller's limitations are quickly exposed. With event types involving racing for time bonuses or completing a set number of tricks within the time limit, the distinctly twitchy skateboard becomes more problematic as you go up the three difficulty levels. If you're not spinning into buildings, it's trying to make the sensors distinguish between tilts and flicks leading to constant restarts until it recognises the right response. Admittedly, this is less of an issue with the other three playing modes, Speed, Trick and Free Skate and when playing against friends shared incompetence makes for some unintentionally hilarious bouts.The key to Ride's value-for-money rating is whether any other games will support the skateboard controller. If so, like the Wii Fit balance board, it could yet be an excellent addition to the Wii's arsenal of intelligent controllers. If not, £100 is a lot to pay for an admittedly cool peripheral and an OK game.
This latest instalment in the much-loved Zelda series ditches the nautical setting of Phantom Hourglass, its immediate predecessor, in favour of a locomotive theme, with much of the game spent piloting a steam train along the tracks of the title.However, aside from this new mode of transport, there's not all that much else in the way of innovation, yet it still manages to be one of the best DS games of the year. Evil doings are once again afoot in the land of Hyrule, and it's up to you to guide heroic young Hylian Link through a cell-shaded world of castles, market towns, forests and dungeons, in order to thwart the baddies, rescue the princess, restore peace to the land, and all the other usual hero business. Built on the same engine as Phantom Hourglass, the gameplay is very similar, involving a combination of exploration, combat and puzzle-solving through which the hero, Link, is controlled with the DS stylus, with various jabs at the touch screen eliciting different sword swipes, steps and somersaults. While all this feels very familiar, there are a few new additions to the mix.This time around Link is accompanied by the spirit of Princess Zelda after her body is "stolen" by a villainous courtier. For much of the game Zelda's role is much like that of Navi in Ocarina of Time on the N64, unobtrusively following Link around in sprite form and offering the occasional word of advice. However, at several points she can be used as a playable character when she possesses one of the armour-clad Phantom Guardians that inhabit the dungeons. In this form she can enter areas that are inaccessible to Link, help fight enemies, or distract other Phantom Guardians while Link sneaks around behind them. While the train travel element initially feels like a step backwards from the free-roaming possibilities of Phantom Hourglass's sea-faring, the restrictions of travelling along rails are put to good use, and travelling around Hyrule soon becomes an engaging challenge.Spirit Tracks gets a lot of use out of the DS's microphone; with a "whirlwind" weapon equipped, gently blowing down the mic can disperse clouds of poison gas, shift items round and help defeat enemies. Early on in the game Link gets hold of Spirit Pipes, colour-coded pan pipes used to perform spells, which are also operated with the mic. Both of these features work very well, but adult gamers might feel a touch self-conscious when called on to repeatedly blow on their DS while out in public. While not a huge leap forward from Phantom Hourglass, Spirit Tracks is still brimming with invention, and has all the wit and charm we've come to expect from Zelda titles. It's certainly as good as Phantom Hourglass, and quite possibly better – there's nothing as tediously repetitive as the earlier game's Temple of the Ocean King, and overall it moves along at a much swifter pace, but not at the expense of depth. It's certainly more than deserving of a place in every discerning DS owner's games collection.
The Saw movie franchise considers whether an intricate mental and physical challenge, with real fear of death behind it, can be a life-affirming experience. The movies' Jigsaw Killer gives his victims the chance to free themselves – not just from his fiendish traps, but also from their own humdrum day-to-day existence. This could have been the premise for an excellent game, with the potential to be intellectually stimulating as well as genuinely frightening.Unfortunately, what Zombie Studios has produced from this promising beginning is a predictable and dull series of irksome Quicktime sequences. These dangle grotesquely from a plot that pornographers would reject as insubstantial, and it's all set in purloined Arkham Asylum corridors rendered entirely in brown.This game's crimes are too manifold to outline in full detail, but I will take you through the most heinous offences. I'll begin with the plot, which is dire. You explore an area until you find a character in a trap, and then you save them. Then, almost invariably, they either vanish, are recaptured or die anyway. Ironically, the grunts you fight are also all Jigsaw's victims, but your character – while obsessing about saving some people who he only vaguely knows – appears to have no qualms about bludgeoning all the others to death. "Why save anyone? What's the point," this game begs you to ask. "Why bother?"The plot could be overlooked if the gameplay was worth two hoots, but it isn't. The combat mechanics are clumsy and slow, and the traps boil down to anal little puzzles that quickly become chores. Instead of becoming increasingly complex and cerebral as the game progresses, they just get bigger. Freeing some of the later characters is like playing 15 minutes of expert-level minesweeper. Which, if you fail to make the time limit, you have to do again. I'm sorry, but genuine tension requires more than just a time-limited mini-game.The game environment is equally dismal. Almost every room in the game contains the same desk, often two or three identical filing cabinets, one of which will contain a key, which will open the next door. The original Castle Wolfenstein had more sophisticated level design than this, and that came out five years before I was born. Then there's the endless Quicktime events. The opening sequence of the game is a particularly confusing example: by the time I took my first steps into the asylum I had already seen Detective Tapp's head get blown off five or six times, by which point I couldn't give less of a fig about his well-being. Press X to not get killed by a shotgun trap, the game demands, over and over again. Press triangle and wiggle the stick to not die in a head trap. I've negotiated more engaging DVD menus.This game turned a genuinely interesting horror premise into a grinding, listless chore of an experience, and is a genuine disappointment. You're far better off with Arkham Asylum. Or Minesweeper. Frankly, you'd have more fun bouncing a rubber ball for six mindless hours.
Satellite navigation programs and the National Rail Enquiries service were among the most popular applications, or apps, downloaded on to iPhones and iPods in the UK this year.Unveiling the year's top downloads, Oliver Schusser, senior director of iTunes Europe, said 2009 had been "the biggest year ever for us in terms of the number of songs downloaded", while apps had a "sensational" year, ahead of Apple's own expectations. He gave little away about plans for 2010, however."Our focus is always on the product: adding new features that will make it easier for people to discover all the content that we have and secondly get more content on the store in the first place," he said.The iTunes UK charts for 2009 reveal the top two apps in revenue terms were both satellite navigation systems: CoPilot Live UK &amp; Ireland at £26.99 and TomTom UK &amp; Ireland at £59.99.The life simulation game The Sims 3 was second; National Rail Enquiries was fourth, while TomTom Western Europe took fifth place. The rest of the top 10 spots were taken by games and one more satnav app. Apple's apps store for the UK now has more than 100,000 apps.The top song of the year for the UK was Black Eyed Peas with I Gotta Feeling.Although more free and cheap music services are set to flood on to the market next year, Apple's dominant iTunes store claims to be unworried by rising competition.Schusser said media companies had made a "lot of progress in the last few years" at offering easy-to-use alternatives to illegal sites. But he insisted the wave of new companies emerging as governments crack down on piracy were not a big threat to iTunes."There were always different business models, different ideas. I think it's great for digital that there are alternatives. Ultimately, the customer will make the choice. We will keep an eye on all the different models, we have some ideas ourselves and we will just see how it goes," he said.On the ongoing challenge from illegal music, film and TV services, he said: "We will continue our focus on getting people to switch from stealing content on the internet to actually paying for it. That will continue to be a struggle and we think that all the efforts across Europe, not only in the UK, that have been undertaken to stop people stealing content are great."Top 10 biggest-grossing iPhone apps1. CoPilot Live UK &amp; Ireland (ALK Technologies), £26.992. TomTom UK &amp; Ireland (TomTom International), £59.993. The Sims 3 (EA Mobile), £3.994. National Rail Enquiries (Agant), £4.995. TomTom Western Europe (TomTom International), £79.996. Scrabble (EA Mobile), £2.997. Worms (Team 17 Software), £2.998. Sonic The Hedgehog (Sega), £3.499. MobileNavigator British Isles (Navigon), £34.9910. Need For Speed Undercover (EA Mobile), £2.99Top 10 best-selling albums on iTunes1. Kings of Leon, Only By The Night2. Lily Allen, It's Not Me, It's You3. Lady Gaga, The Fame4. The Prodigy, Invaders Must Die5. Florence &amp; the Machine, Lungs6. Beyoncé, I Am… Sasha Fierce7. Kasabian, West Ryder Pauper Lunatic Asylum8. Michael Jackson, Number Ones9. Black Eyed Peas, The E.N.D. (The Energy Never Dies)10. The Script, The ScriptTop 10 best-selling songs on iTunes1. Black Eyed Peas, I Gotta Feeling2. Lady Gaga, Poker Face3. Lady Gaga featuring Colby O'Donis, Just Dance4. Black Eyed Peas, Boom Boom Pow5. Cheryl Cole, Fight For This Love6. La Roux, In For The Kill7. Tinchy Stryder, Number 18. Alexandra Burke featuring Flo Rida, Bad Boys9. Lily Allen, The Fear10. Kings of Leon, Use SomebodyTop five best-selling videos on iTunes1. Michael Jackson, Thriller2. Lady Gaga, Poker Face3. Beyoncé, Single Ladies (Put A Ring On It)4. Taylor Swift, Love Story5. Lily Allen, The FearTop 10 best-selling movies on iTunes1. Quantum of Solace2. Yes Man3. Watchmen4. Role Models5. Slumdog Millionaire6. Marley and Me7. Gran Torino8. Star Trek9. RocknRolla10. Angels &amp; DemonsBest-selling TV programmes on iTunes1. Eastbound &amp; Down, season 1 (comedy)2. The Red Riding trilogy (drama)3. Life, series 1 (non-fiction)4. FlashForward, season 1 (sci-fi and fantasy)5. Wallace &amp; Gromit: The Complete Series (animation)6. Ben 10: Alien Force, season 2 (children)7. Skins, series 3 (teenage)8. Monty Python, series 1 (comedy)
We're rarely sent videogame-related books for review, which is shame as I'm always happy to cover them on the blog - especially when they're rather esoteric and intellectual, thereby providing raw material for some of my more, erm, 'conceptual' postings (i.e. pretty much anything through the slow summer months).Anyway,The MIT Presshas sent over two books that I'm currently reading simultaneously, and they're both worth a look if you're interested in reasonably heavyweight game theory.The first isCommunities of Play: Emergent Cultures in Multiplayer Games and Virtual Worlds(£22.95) byCelia Pearce. It's a fascinating and dauntingly thorough examination of the emergent cultures and communities that have grown up around virtual worlds and MMORPGs since the early days of the net. Pearce is particularly interested in the ways that group behaviour is inspired and channeled by game design decisions, and also in what happens to communities when the game breaks down. The closure ofUru: Ages Beyond Myst, and the diaspora of its players to other virtual realms, provides the central component of Pearce's analysis. If you've ever spent time in World of Warcraft, Second Life or any other online kingdom, there is masses of thought-provoking stuff in here for you.Also from MIT isA Casual Revolution: Reinventing Videogames and Their Players(£18.95) byJesper Juul. As the title suggests it's trenchant look at the rise of casual gaming, taking in everything form PC titles like Zuma to the Wii and Guitar Hero. Juul wants to know what defines a casual game, where the genre comes from (considering everything from chess to computer solitaire) and what make an experience instantly accessible to 'non-gamers'. There's interesting analysis of the 'matching tile' game genre and of mimetic interfaces (i.e. the Wii Remote or Rock Band guitar), and the study rounds of with a selectionof interviews with casual game denizens and designers.Juul, through his blogThe Ludologist, has always been a source of inspiration for my writing on Gamesblog, so this is an indispensable volume for me. And if you're interested in this, you should definitely check outRacing the Beamfrom another of my favourite videogame bloggers,Ian Bogost(together with Nick Montfort). It's a thorough investigation of the trials and tribulations faced by coders working on the Atari VCS console. There's plenty of engrossing detail about the technical limitations of the hardware and, vitally, how these limitations shaped some fundamental design decisions concerning today's bedrock genres.On a very different note, Ubisoft has also provided me with the lavish newPrince of Persia Collector's Edition Prima strategy guide(£14.99), which may be of interest to fans of the game. Along with a complete (and accessibly written) walkthrough, there are several pages of luscious concept art along with a rather nice print to stick on the wall, if you're into that sort of thing. The hardback cover screams quality, but inside the paper stock is rather less impressive so the screenshots lack sharpness and virbrancy.I was more interested in the interviews with the game's designers, which provide some interesting background detail on the development process. There is, for example, a nice little chat with AI designer Matthew Clarke about the development of Elika, the prince's intelligent NPC companion. Personally, I'd have taken a whole book of that, and tried to solve the game myself, but that's clearly not the point.Anyway, while we're on the subject of books, do you have any recommendations for Gamesblog readers looking for an interesting new read this Christmas? Let's try and keep it vaguely videogame-related, which I suppose can be genre fiction, as well as videogame tie-ins and academic studies. What have you sped through recently that you think will interest your fellow Gamesbloggers? Let us know in the comments section...
Over the next few days Google search results will be complemented with up-to-the-minute tweets, social network updates and blogposts for certain topical searches as Google revamps its search engine and refreshes its results with real-time data.Google is beating its search engine rivals Microsoft's Bing and Yahoo– proving to the world that it is still on top of technological developmentsdriven by real-time publishing on social networks like Twitter and Facebook. Advertisements on Google may soon be tailored to real-time search.But most of all, our perception of the world will be changed: for the first time there is an archive of the present now - and thereforethe Computer History Museum in San Jose was a perfect placeto announce the new possiblities of search.During the summer's civil protest in Tehran happened, we saw this for the very first time as a host of pictures, films and messages were posted online. Suddenly there was an archive of the present – and the journalists were among the first to make use of it.Until a short time ago our knowledge about the present was limited to personal context combined with a handy summary of the world affairs in the evening news or morning papers.We never knew much about the actual moment, while we could find detailed knowledge about the second world war in every library: how the automobile industry was doing back then; what an important role football played for the identity of a nation; there is detailed knowledge of the nutrition of poor children or who was an important player in the development of communication technology, which diseases haunted Europe or what the political situation in Africa was and so on.Complex data could be requested for the past, but not for the present - except if you were the American president and had a swarm of experts, consultants and thinktanks buzzing around you. That has changed.Slowly and more or less unnoticed, the internet transformed into an archive of the present, and now Google is on top of that development.Slowly indeed. If you didn't know exactly where to look for, it took at least weeks back then to find actual information on the internet. Remember, we joked about the world wide web – saying its www abbreviation stood for world wide waiting - and that included search engines.At that time the importance of your webpage was identified via links to your page, so it took weeks for a new page to crawl up to the first search result page, because at that time you actually couldn't ping Google and say: Hello, here I am. It wasn't until blogs, picture and video platforms like Flickr or YouTube were invented that the present got a hold of the internet. So welcome to the internet, present!This archive of the present is a very powerful thing. It provides the public, with a more direct voice and it will change journalism profoundly because it adds another possibility to research - verifying real-time results will become an important issue.This leaves us, of course, with new problems and questions: What can be found? What is hidden?Who controls the archive of the present? Which economic investments are done and for what reasons? Which technological decisions push it in a certain direction?Before we had to be aware of what can be heard. Now, with real-time search we have to be aware of what may be present.
I spent a good portion of Monday in the company of Google, as itunveiled a series of announcements about search technologies- such as the inclusion of new "real-time" results culled from Twitter, Facebook and the news media and planted, dynamically, into the results page.Given the obsession with the real-time web at the moment, it was obvious that most of the attention would be focused on a sort of OMG TWITTERZ IN MY GOOGLE!!! reaction, but I was struck by a number of things that seemed highly significant. Here they are:-Google's user interface is getting more cluttered all the time.Yes, the famous home pagemay be getting lighter, but that doesn't seem to apply to the layers of pages it takes you to. Finding real-time search results requires a series of clicks, none of which are blindingly obvious or quick for new users to get to. It's time for Google to start applying its reductionist approach more widely.This is a way to move into highly personalised search.Once you've got users looking at social networking results in their feed, it's only a matter of time before they start demanding more access to the results that matter to them. Google's always been slightly offish about giving answers based on your personal connections - it loves the feel of a cold, hard algorithm - but social search is a powerful idea. And it's worth knowing that Bradley Horowitz -who outlined his ideas on social search to me four years agowhile he was working as a senior executive at Yahoo - is now Google's vice president of product management.-Google's mobile search is getting very, very strong.Even with the Android operating system and other developments, I think people underestimate how much mobile phones matter to Google. To me, it's pretty clear that they think mobile will be the area where they will develop their next big cash cow. The company is currently working with two major US retailers, Best Buy and Sear's, to include stock/inventory listings in mobile searches. The idea is that if you search for a product on your mobile phone, it will be able to hook into their systems and tell you if there are any items in stock nearby. That's a big money-making opportunity. Really big.-What is the possibility for Google Goggles?Computer vision has been the holy grail for all number of technologists over the years, and if Google throws its significant resources behind the effort, it could get somewhere. They could give it a better name, though.In fact, in the process of asking a couple of questions, I pushed an idea that crossed my mind - focused on who "owns" the Goggles references (the example, who decides that a picture of the Empire State Building is actually the Empire State Building). Vic Gundotra didn't answer my question, but passed it over to Hartmut Neven (the founder of Neven Vision,a company Google acquired in 2006and the developer of the system).Neven said the canonical database of references was constructed algorithmically - unsupervised learning, he called it (it sounded quite a lot like Google's general search system). If that's the case, then, does that mean that the image of something could begooglebombed?. "Theoretically, yes," he said - but, he added, they thought they had systems in place to prevent that.What an idea. Computer vision is amazing, and if it can be applied to search then just imagine how powerful that could be. But, equally, imagine a situation in which, say, a product is googlebombed by its detractors - or even a competitor. Suddenly the idea of "image rights", something usually associated with celebrities, becomes absolutely huge.I'm interested to see where this all leads.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox...Quote of the moment"I'm so evil people won't even talk to me half the time, and if they don't they get shot, its a simple life but I like it!"Simian discovers that Fallout 3 suits him down to the ground.
Apple has apparently pulled the plug on more than 1,000 iPhone applications, amid allegations that the developer behind them planted positive reviews about its products.The developer,Molinker, is responsible for a vast number of applications - many of them travel guides - which have received rave reviews from users.But questions about the authenticity of those reviews surfaced this weekend, when British blogger Glyn Evans of iphoneographywrote about the factthat a large number were extremely positive, poorly written and by users who seemed only to review Molinker applications. Shortly after that news was posted, the company's applicationsappeared to be pulled from the storepending investigation.If it turns out that Molinker is in the wrong here (and Apple hasn't made a statement on the issue yet) it wouldn't be the first time a company has been caughtastroturfing online. In fact, it'snot even the first time a company has been caught astroturfing on the iPhone app store.But it would mark an interesting turn for the app store. A thousand programs is a huge slab of the applications available to iPhone users - but after so many stories of thebodged approval processor Apple'sseemingly arbitrary approachto deciding which applications make it into the store, this at least should offer the company a chance to make a fairly clear cut decision.Of course, these are some of the things that US regulatorsrecently said they wanted to make illegal: deliberately misleading the public by not disclosing paid adverts or endorsements. Would that stop this sort of infringement?
Executives at eBay had wanted to acquire rival Craigslist outright when they bought a share in the site in 2004, former eBay boss Meg Whitman told a court on Monday.The 53-year-old - who is now running for political office in California - said that eBay paid $32m for a minority stake in the pioneering classified advertising service, but initially wanted to take over the whole company."We were very interested in making an acquisition of Craigslist," Whitman told a court in Delaware. "We would have loved to have bought the whole thing.""We knew there was no path to control unless they sold us the shares," Whitman added.The comments as she gave evidence in along-running legal battlebetween the two companies over complications that emerged after eBay purchased the shares from Phillip Knowlton, a former co-owner of Craigslist.In 2008,eBay sued the San Francisco-based classified siteamid allegations that senior staff had secretly diluted its stake in order to prevent eBay from gaining a seat on the company's board.Craigslist, meanwhile, hascountersued in a California court, claiming that eBay's decision to launch its own classified advertising site,Kijiji.com, illegally used confidential information and data to bolster its own product.Also giving evidence was eBay's billionaire founder, Pierre Omidyar, who at one point held a seat on Craigslist's board. He told the court that eBay's plans with Kijiji had been fully disclosed at the time."I did disclose that eBay was going to do classified aggressively and going to launch Kijiji," he said. "Anyone sitting across the table from someone who says eBay is committed and is going to aggressively pursue these opportunities would understand that."Whitman was in charge of the auction website for 10 years - pushing it from a 30-person company to more than 15,000 employees in the process - before leaving in 2008 to enter politics. With close links to the Republican party, she is now one of a number of contendersvying to succeed Arnold Schwarzeneggeras the governor of California.On theCraigslist blog, the company - which has always been secretive about its finances - said that any special rights that eBay had bought with the investment were "terminated in 2007, when it launched Kijiji in the US".The company also claimed that the court would also be hearing about eBay's alleged transgressions."Also subject to testimony will be eBay's misconduct, and abuses by eBay of its position as a shareholder of Craigslist," it said.The case is expected to last at least a week.
&bull; Remember the Green Cross Code? Well, of course you do: it taught millions of children about road safety. The 21st century equivalent, it turns out, might just be"Zip It, Block It, Flag It", the slogan that youngsters will be taught as a method of keeping themselves safe online undernew plans being unveiled by Gordon Brown.&bull;Google's mission to to all the world's knowledge took another step forward yesterday witha range of new additions to its armory, including real-time results drawn from news organisations, social networks and blogs; anew computer vision systemthat lets your phone understand what objects around you are, and enhanced translation and location services.&bull; The bunfight betweeneBayandCraigslisttook an interesting turn yesterday as former queen of the auction site-turned-politico Meg Whitmantook the standto explain how she had wanted to buy the whole company -not just the minority share that's currently in dispute.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Elzie Crisler Segar might not be a household name, but thePopeyecreator has become the latest person to be honoured with his ownGoogleDoodle.The internet search giant has depicted the rambunctious cartoon seaman in typically feisty pose on what would have been Segar's 115th birthday.Popeye the Sailor –who famously attributed his strength "to the finish" to his consumption "of spinach"– first entered the public consciousness in January 1929, in Segar's newspaper comic stripThimble Theatre.The cartoonist was born in Illinois, US, on 8 December 1894, and showed a talent for drawing at a young age. Segar worked as a film projectionist while studying a correspondence course in cartooning, eventually moving to Chicago to pursue his career.According to cartoon expert Ed Black, Popeye originally appeared as a supporting character in Thimble Theatre, which had already been running for ten years with a certain Olive Oyl as its heroine.Popeye, as Segar had always intended, was written out of the strip once his character's sequence ended, but returned as the main character following complaints from readers. Olive Oyl became the plucky sailor's girlfriend, and has remained so ever since – despite her head occasionally being turned by love rival Bluto.Spinach is the source of Popeye's muscular prowess – upon eating it, his biceps immediately swell to three times their normal size. Segar chose the vegetabledue to an 1870 German studywhich claimed itcontained the same amount of iron as red meat.The strength-giving properties of spinach were later revised however, after it was found a stray decimal point had led researchers to believe the vegetable contained ten times its actual iron content.Segar died aged 43 on 13 October 1938, but Popeye has lived on, appearing in television cartoons, advertisements and, in 1980,a film starring Robin Williams.
Just in case you missed this, EA has announced a sequel to its 2008 sci-fi horror hit,Dead Space. Visceral Games is back in the development hotseat and says the new game will take the fight to the Necromorphs - suggesting a Gears of War 2-esque revenge narrative. Apparently, there will be new tools of dismemberment to accompany Isaac Clarke's iconic plasma cutter, as well as - aha, that old chestnut - some significant plot twists. According to executive producer Steve Papoutsis, we can also look forward to, "a huge cast of twisted, disgusting monsters that are sure to scare the daylights out of you." The game is out next year on PC, Xbox 360 and PS3.Based on this slight amount of information, news sites are making contradictory predictions, some claiming to have heard that Dead Space 2 will be more cerebral than its predecessor, others that it's going to be more of an action game. Considering the original was one of EA's most successful original IPs of the modern era, surely the developer is being told to just, you know, stick to the winning recipe or tense exploration interspersed with moments of extreme turbo-charged terror violence?What do you think? Did you love the first game? What do you want from a sequel?Innovative action adventure Mirror's Edge is coming to iPhone and iPod Touch.Moving on, it seems this is not the only piece of 2008 EA IP set for a comeback...As EA revealed earlier this week, Mirror's Edge is returning - though more modestly, as an iPhone title. Once again the action follows athletic rebel Faith Connors as she battles a tyrannical government, but this time it seems the action will be viewed from a third-person perspective, which sort of dismisses one the original game's key selling point, but will perhaps appease those who got motion sickness from seeing Faith's limbs continually flailing into view. (And of course, follows the precedent set by EA's free Flash version,Mirror's Edge 2D.)There will be 14 levels of chase action, all rendered in rich 3D. It's an interesting move for EA as the console version was not an enormous commercial success (though it certainly had its supporters in the press). I'll certainly be posting a review when it's released in January.
Google has moved to head off some of the threat from young rivals such as Twitter and Facebook by announcing plans to prominently display results from social networking sites in its search pages.The new development, which the Californian technology giant dubs "real-time search", aims to bring users more up-to-date information as they scour the web for information. Over the next few days, anybody searching online using Google will see their traditional search results augmented by a string of constantly updating messages drawn from social networks, news sites and blogs.The move is part of a wider push to make Google's search index even faster and more up to date, as people increasingly use services like Twitter to transmit information about events as they happen.Google executive Amit Singhal said that with more information being put on the web every day, it was vital that the company learned how to give users the most relevant results - and as quickly as possible."Information is being posted at a pace I have never seen before," he said. "In this information environment, seconds matter."As well as watching for developments on news sites, Google is working closely with Twitter, Facebook and MySpace to include updates from their users - and Singhal said he would not rule out any potential source of up-to-the-second information in the future.Though executives were keen to use the launch event - which was held near the company's headquarters in Mountain View, California - as a display of power, it was also intended to quieten growing speculation that an inability to conduct real time searches could become Google's achilles heel.Some critics havepositedthat websites like Facebook and Twitter could eventually rival Google, thanks to their ability to tap into millions of public messages being sent constantly between individuals. That threat comes in addition to more traditional search engines like Microsoft's Bing.com have threatened to forge exclusive deals with some content providers as a way to claw back market share.Instead, Google has acted to bring those services into the fold, though it would neither confirm nor deny whether there was a financial relationship behinds its links with social networking sites. Not everybody thinks the move was make or break for Google, however, even if it gives users more timely information."There's no doubt that it's good to have," said Danny Sullivan, a prominent observer of Google's activities,writing on his SearchEngineLand website. "It's incredibly difficult to be a leading information source and yet when there's an earthquake, people are instead turning to Twitter for confirmation faster than traditional news sources on Google can provide."The company also used the event to unveil a number of other advances it said were significant technological advances.These included an experimental program calledGoogle Gogglesthat allows users to take a photograph of an object or product and ask Google what it is, getting a selection of information back just as if they had conducted a web search on the item in question.Vic Gundotra, the company's vice-president of engineering, said there were already more than a billion items stored in the company's systems and that there were fierce ambitions to make this technology - which has eluded experts for generations - as widely available as possible."Today marks the beginning of this journey," he said. "It's our goal to be able to visually identify any image."Gundotra also showcased a forthcoming translation product which allows users to speak any phrase into a mobile phone and then translate it, almost instantly, into any one of a number of languages. The resulting phrase could then be spoken back by Google through the phone's speaker, potentially allowing travellers to use any high-end handset as a universal translation device. The first elements of the software should be available to the public in the first quarter of 2010.The company said such technologies were possible thanks to improvements in speed and power, but added that there were more plans coming soon - and that the ultimate goal was to make searching for information as fast as physically possible."It takes one 10th of a second for light to travel around the world," said Singhal. "At Google we will only be satisfied until that is the only barrier between you and information."
Wait, what sorcery is this? Last week's Chatterbox, compiled and posted as a Best Of - the following Monday?! Not two weeks late as tradition dictates?! Nought good can come of this...Anyways, here's the ridiculously punctual OfficePest with another ribald selection of recent memories, including Fantomex being stood up (but alsonotstood up), something about Sky on Xbox, something politically incorrect about Nigeria and something Keef 'Politburo' Stuart had to cut out...And for heaven's sake, will someone send in some photographs? We need videogame-related digital snaps in landscape format to head these Best Of entries. We're at gamesblog + googlemail + come. There's nothing in it but fame, I'm afraid - but apparently that's what we all want in this X Factor culture!OfficePest - they're all yours...Best of the week: November 30 - December 4By OfficePestMondayThe weekend was wet, windy and miserable, so the bloggers were happy for once, as it meant they could sit indoors in their underpants all weekend, crouched over controllers, hollow eyes reflecting the ridiculously over-sized TVs that we all have thanks to recommendations from other bloggers. Or was that just me?Lots of MW2 was played and all the banter led to Killerbee posting seven reasons why Killzone 2 is better than MW2.  For details of this exciting topic, see Chatterbox Monday.  It's just too thrilling to include here.Talk moved on to the upcoming awards ceremony. Crispycrumb offered Mrs Crumb's services for the night (oo-er). Limni certainly seemed interested – "Mrs Crispy as my Debbie McGee? It's a tempting offer…"  I'm now looking forward to somebody being sawn in half.Much of the afternoon was taken up with talk of Demon's Souls.  Words such as 'Ring of Herculean Strength', 'maximum equippable weight', 'Scathing Spear' and 'Purple Flame Shield' were bandied around.Despite all this, I am still tempted…TuesdayOn this cold first day of December Crispycrumb stuck to tradition and stated "Pinch, punch first of the month and no returns," indicating that we should probably start thinking about Christmas presents.Newishcomer Derk fired out some criticisms of Sky's new option to watch their TV channels through the Xbox 360.  He pointed out that you need to pay an extra £10 per month, comparing it to Sky Multiroom:"…you are better off paying for the purpose built digital box where the picture quality will be better and you won't have to pay the additional XBOX LIVE GOLD membership costs."Derk was praised for his early morning ranting and many bloggers felt the same way about this. Shortly afterwards, Henrypootle leapt in to counter Crispycrumb's earlier statement: "A pinch and kick for being so quick, baggsy no returns," he offered rakishly.The conversation then moved on (thanks to SirGidggidyMMVIII) to which popcorn was best – sweet or salted?  RustyJames piped up – "There is a 600% mark up on cinema popcorn."  I don't know about you lot, but I'm going into popcorn manufacturing. Sweet won by five votes to four, although Boozy admitted liking "the sweet and salty mix".  The filthy animal.Talk of TonyHayers reproducing scared many of the bloggers early in the afternoon. Its ok people – he's not.  The world is safe for another day.There was some games talk, but it was pretty much just the usual Modern Warfare 2 NaN session banter.  So that was Tuesday!WednesdayThe day inevitably started with talk of the epic Modern Warfare 2 NaN session from the night before. BigWorv's comment summed it up quite nicely – "…one dude duel wielding sawn-off shotguns was a monster. He'll haunt my dreams for a long time."Chubster2010 then tried his monthly attempt to turn people over to Home on the PS3. It didn't work. Again. Later, Smellavision asked the blog for help with his first ever eBay sale (ahhhh, bless) – "The paypal payment has been approved but the buyer wants it shipped to Nigeria. I'm worried about this, even though they've paid extra for postage."RustyJames' helpful response was thus: "Ebay is corrupt and Nigeria is a nation of conmen."  For legal purposes, we would just like to state that the opinions of RustyJames are not necessarily the opinions of The Guardian, the Gamesblog or the 'Best of' team.  Most other people were quite helpful, even if the comments were "seems dodgy to me".Early in the afternoon we saw the first 'Quote of the Moment' appear at the top of the 'box.  SuperSmashIn was the first to freak out – "What is this witchcraft? I feel like we're being watched...."  Thankfully Keef came along to allay everyone's fears about his new 'innovation'. The 'Best of' bunch will be trying to remember to give Keef some choice nuggets for him to post up each day (possibly even games related), until he can replace us with some type of intuitive net bots. They'll probably do a better job anyway.(They'd have certainly done a better job today, you slackers - Keef)Ex-regular Fantomex returned to the blog later that day (or at least returned in a 'posting from work' capacity) and there was much rejoicing. Fantomex himself admitted – "Can't believe I can get on here at work, I may have just done a bit of wee down my leg."  Whether out of excitement or due to some bladder problem, we just don't know.ThursdayOn Thursday morning Fantomex (he of Wednesday afternoon fame) grumbled at being stood up by the bloggers the previous night – "Where the devil were you all last night? I was in there for most of three hours, drinking on my lonesome.  At least I wasn't freebasing crack on my own, I guess."It turns out he was in the George just off D'Arblay Street, not the Royal George just off Denmark Street!  So he wasn't actually stood up by the Chatterboxers, which, in EnglishRed's words woudl have been, "a new low for anyone."  It sounded like a good event however (for the people in the right pub) – they even had a Burger King.There were then conversations about how great Battlestar Galactica was, whether board games really are any good (debatable) and how to actually kill people in MW2.  "Do what EvilMonkey / Goody does" seemed to be the general opinion.The blog later descended into the usual 'zombocolypse' discussions.  Many people actually seemed quite excited for it to happen. It's entirely possible they've been playing Left 4 Dead for too long.FridayTwas three weeks before Christmas and all through the blog, not a creature was stirring, until Simian came in at 08:36.Not content with being first, he then went on to get a Friday morning topic rolling – do you ever cheat in games?  A few people (filthy scum that they are) admitted to cheating in games such as Fallout 3, Oblivion and Tomb Raider.  EvilMonkey2004 admitted sticking cheats on during a 2nd or 3rd run through, but stated – "Cheating in Multiplayer games and exploiting glitches is paramount to the worst crime ever IMO."  Harsh words, but sentiments echoed by many of the bloggers.BeardOfBees tried to instigate Listblog by asking for "good quality films that we pretend didn't have sequels".  Most people saw through his evil plot though and refused to get involved.Later the blog got talking about...(...a certain recent murder trial, which I think we need to be sensitive about for now, so I'll have to edit this. However, we can come back in on...)... I personally liked Mollocate's suggestion – "Couldn't we have a 'breast of' edition that keeps all the smut and misogyny?"  Mollocate is now one of the 'Best of' writers, so watch this space for 'Breast of' in a few weeks time.We wiled away the last few hours idly speculating about CunningStunt and Automatic's relationship – one of our favourite talking points (particularly BeardOfBees'). We also did DaftRacialistBlog, as we often do. You can't say we're not a diverse bunch.Quotes of the week:"Giant starfish vs giant crab was brilliant."Art1eFufkin scoffs at cockfighting and starts a new craze."AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAARGH! F***ING BLOODY B****RD F***ING B****RD BLOODY COMPANIES AND PEOPLE AND THE WORLD."PhilosopherKing practices verbal relaxation techniques."Too many pints of something called Dangleberry last night."Alfienoakes discovers the perils of drinking alcoholic beverages that sound like medical euphemisms.Also discussed:Games:Modern Warfare 2, Demon's Souls, Assassin's Creed 2, Dante's Inferno, Dragon Age: Origins, PESFilms &amp; TV:BSG, Twin Peaks, AvatarBooks:None – we done gone illiterateMusic:Major LazerWelcome to:Wedgemondo, Destroyapathy
Eric Schmidt, the Google CEO, signed up to Twitter this morning – leading to speculation over a tie-up between the two tech firms.With a press conference at Google HQ due for later today, Schmidt's entry into the Twitter fray has raised the prospect of the search engine giant and the micro-blogging site joining forces - and indeed Biz stone, the CEO of Twitter is at the press conference.His first tweets - as@eschmidt0– are not about what he is doing right now, but what he is thinking of, and that is his own performance.So his first Twitter step was a bit of self-promotion, a link tohis Wall Street piece "How Google Can Help Newspapers"and an attempted link to CNN's GPS with Fareed Zakaria – but unfortunately CNN has removed the link (in case you are interested,you find the show here).After it is clear now, that it is his real account let's hope that we get a more direct glimpse of what Schmidt is about in the near future as his activity on Twitter would definitely interesting to watch. Schimdt originally signed up as "eschmidt0", but switched his account to ericschmidt which got officially verified by Twitter by now.The move is a bit of a surprise, because in spring, his opinion about the micro-messaging system wasn't so good: "Speaking as a computer scientist, I view all of these as sort of a poor man's email systems",he said. This exactly leaves room for the speculation, that the reason Eric Schmidt signing up on Twitter is more business related and not because he fancies to micro message with other Tweeters.Meanwhile he already has more than 7,000 followers and is following 73 Twitter accounts – a mixture of showbiz, politics and news organisations. Of course he is following the Google account, too, and Marissa Mayer – the company's vice-president of search product – who hasn't sent a single tweet.Most of the accounts he signed up to are entertainment related: Janet Jackson, the Dixie Chicks, 50 Cent, Heidi Montag and Ivanka are among them.The political Twitter accounts include Barack Obama, Carly Fiorina, Al Gore, the White House, Queen Rania of Jordan. Oh, and Arnold Schwarzenegger.In media and news the account follows The New York Times, Times Magazine, Arianna Huffington,the Onion, the Afghan-Australian media proprietor Saad Mohseni, CNBC talking head Zachary Karabell and, well, Martha Stewart.TechCrunch reported Schmidt's accountaftersome Googlers welcomed him on Twitter.
Google is extending its personalised search. From now on, all users will find their search results customised.Google stores up to 180 days of signed-out search activity in the user's cookie. It stores searches users have done before and results they have clicked so that if they favour a certain news site Google will feature that site higher when it delivers the results."Now when you search using Google, we will be able to better provide you with the most relevant results possible",software engineer Bryan Horling and product manager Matthew Kulick wrote in a blogpost announcing the change.Before only users who were signed in and had enabled their web history on their Google account found their search results customised.Now this service has been expanded to all users; they can opt out by deleting Google's cookies in the browser or click "Web History" in the top right corner of the search result page and then "Disable customisations".So users can turn personalisation off – but since it's switched on by default most users will leave it that way, and privacy advocates will very alarmed by the fact that it is an opt-out and not an opt-in service.Google says the aim of the move is to provide better search results to its customers. Another reason is that by building a better profile of users' web activity it can target ads more precisely.But most of all, it will make the life of those involved in search engine optimisation harder as search results will vary from user to user. From now on, convincing Google algorithms to push a particular site to the top of the search results will be all the more difficult.
Amiga owners should rememberAlien Breed. Developed by Team 17 the top-down shooter was one of those classic Amiga games - think Sensible Soccer etc - that made the early '90s such a golden gaming age. So the remake/reboot of the series is good news indeed. Alien Breed Evolution launches on the 16th Dec on Xbox Live Arcade (800 points, about 7 quid) with the PC version coming soon after. The video shows the differences between the two - is the new version just a little too conservative in art design? Hard to tell without playing but I can't wait for this one, especially for the co-op play.In arecent interviewTeam 17 design manager John Dennis discussed the changes between the original and the remake.The first big difference is the level design. In the levels in the original Alien Breed, you'd have limited keys and you'd have to shoot doors; sometimes you'd find yourself in a position where you couldn't complete the level any more. There's none of that in Alien Breed Evolution. Our levels have all had a lot of time lavished on them. There's a whole bunch of new weapons, and a selection of new and different aliens that act in different ways. They all require different strategies from the player to deal with them. You always have to think. You're always tested.The other thing we've done is we've added a survival horror element, so when your player character gets to low health he starts limping around and he can't run, making his situation even more dangerous. Health and ammunition are always in really short supply, so you've got to be sure to use the weaker weapons on the weaker aliens rather than using your really powerful ones, otherwise you'll really struggle later on. We've also got intelligent audio, which ramps up the music when you've got lots of aliens on screen and adds a heartbeat sound effect when you're character's low on health. We've done lots of things to try and induce an unnerving feeling.What do you think then? Looking forward to a nostalgic blast and what could well be the last good game of the year? Or had enough of retro gaming?
Craigslist and eBay, two of the world's biggest websites, are going head to head in a dispute that could have major implications for the future of the classified advertising giant.Lawyers for the two Californian companies will take to a court Delaware on Monday, amid arguments over the size of eBay's stake in its rival and allegations of deceptive behaviour.The case -which has been in process since last year- centres on eBay's decision in 2004 to buy a significant stake in Craigslist from one of the site's early shareholders. The auction website alleges that Craigslist's executives have since conducted a series of secret deals that reduced its share and blocked its attempt to gain a seat on the company's board.At the time of eBay's purchase, Craigslist chief executive Jim Buckmaster said he was happy to welcome the investment after an agreement that the larger company would not interfere in decision-making."They have no interest in asking us to change that in any way," Buckmastertold the Wall Street Journal. "They're happy with us having our full autonomy; they recognise us as experts at what we do."However, the auction site has since lobbied for a seat on the Craigslist board – a move which it claims led Buckmaster and Craigslist founder Craig Newmark to secretly dilute eBay's shareholding from 28.4% to 25%, pushing it below the threshold for board-level represenation.Those allegations have, in turn, caused Craigslist tofile its own lawsuit against eBay, alleging that the auction site used its position and inside information to launch a competing classified website, Kijiji.Last year the company alleged that eBay had actedin an "unethical" way."If it could not own Craigslist, eBay would exploit its position as an insider and use Craigslist's confidential information, experience, skill and innovations against Craigslist," said the company in its pre-trial briefing."We are very confident we acted properly throughout the relationship," eBay's deputy general counsel Mary Huser told Reuters last week. "We were open and honest regarding what we were doing and our intentions."The stakes for both sides are high. A victory for eBay could increase its share in the San Francisco-based classified website - and possibly give it more say in how the site conducts its business. Craigslist, meanwhile, is hoping that it can fend off the allegations and protect its 90% of the American market from future incursions.And despite Craigslist's nonconformist attitude and approach to advertising – it only charges for a handful of categories - there are large sums of money at stake. The San Francisco-based website, which has just a handful of employees, is expected to achieve revenues of around $100m this year despite the recession.Senior executives from both organisations are expected to testify over the course of the case, including those who were involved in the deal at the time.On Monday, the court is scheduled to hear from eBay founder Pierre Omidyar, as well as the company's former chief executive Meg Whitman, who is currently running to succeed Arnold Schwarzenegger as the governor of California.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
A $40,000 online challenge proposed by the US government has been won by a team of researchers from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology - just hours after it was launched.The Darpa Network Challenge,which took place on Saturday, offered a cash prize for the first group to successfully locate 10 large red weather balloons hidden at a string of secret locations across the US.Competitors were asked to use the internet and social networking sites to discover the whereabouts of the balloons, in what Darpa - the Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency - said was an experiment to discover how the internet could help with rapid problem solving.More than 4,000 groups eventually registered to take part, but although the organisers had given players up to nine days to track the balloons down, the team from MIT scooped victory within nine hours of the launch."Darpa salutes the MIT team for successfully completing this complex task less than nine hours after the balloon launch," said Regina Dugan, the director of the agency.The winning team has not explained precisely how they came to discover the location of all 10 balloons, but the process detailed on theteam websiteexplains that they created a viral campaign to encourage people to put forward information they gleaned about the locations.The team offered the first person to spot a balloon a $2,000 share of the prize money, but smaller awards would also be given to those who referred that player to MIT's website - a scheme of incentives aimed at getting people to urge their friends to take part.Whatever happened in the end, it appeared to work - and quickly."The challenge has captured the imagination of people around the world, is rich with scientific intrigue and, we hope, is part of a growing 'renaissance of wonder' throughout the nation," said Dr Dugan.In the end the eight-foot balloons were hidden in locations across nine states: Arizona, California, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Oregon, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia.
&bull; IsAmazonreallylooking to open up high street shops, as the Sunday Times suggested this weekend? It's an interesting proposition that would mark a major turn-around for online retail's dominant name. Certain things make sense. The idea of a "click and pick" shop, where customers would pick up the goods they bought online, would pit Amazon against Argos, which is ripe for competition. Prime retailing space is also cheap right now, given the collapse of major chains like Borders. Other things don't make so much sense, however: such a significant change would make more sense if it focused on out-of-town delivery centres rather than high street shops, since the latter would appear contrary to the company's strategy over the years. That's ignoring the fact that the company's capability to deliver timely delivery in the UK is so much better than its home market, where its hubs are often spread hundreds and hundreds of miles apart. Why wouldn't Amazon be trying this in the US, where it would have more impact and more to gain? This is one to watch.&bull; Surprise reversal of the weekend goes toGoogle, which caused uproar after it announced that it was buying collaboration startupAppJet, and hooking the team in to join its gang of Google Wave developers. The outrage kicked off when AppJetsaid the deal meant it was closing down its main product, the EtherPad word processor. After much gnashing of teeth by users, the company said it would keep EtherPad online until the service could beopen sourced and handed back to the community. It's a better ending for customers, but - given that it was an explicit talent acquisition - doesn't really mean much for those other products that Google has let languish over the years.&bull; Less surprising, perhaps, was the announcement by ChancellorAlistair Darlingthat the project to digitise the NHS - the biggest civil IT project in the world - would bepartially put on holdas he seeks to squeeze more money out of the system.The program, which was originally slated to cost £2.3bn over three years, has increased massively - to £12bn over 10 years, or £20bn (depending on who you listen to).  According toour report, Darling said that "it's something that I think we don't need to go ahead with just now" - a decision that has taken the government a mere seven years after they first began the process of pushing it.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonalaccounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
It was announced last week that the population of Facebook now exceeds that of America. Since mid-September the social networking service has added 50 million users, which means it now finds itself with 350 million of them. I am sure that Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, takes the same view of his subscribers as PG Wodehouse attributed to the male codfish – "which, suddenly finding itself the parent of three million five hundred thousand little codfish, cheerfully resolves to love them all". But even Zuckerberg must be wondering how he can monetise the little darlings.There they are, cavorting in the corner of cyberspace so thoughtfully (and expensively) provided by him, where they post photographs of themselves in embarrassing situations, write affectionate or silly messages on one another's "walls", become "fans" of obscure comedians, join witty "groups" to support the Tiger Woods driving school and do other cool things too numerous to list. And all without paying a cent!It can't go on like this, can it? The software-engineering and server-farm infrastructure needed to support 350&nbsp;million users burns money, and so does the bandwidth they use. Zuckerberg is not a philanthropist, well, not yet, anyway – though if Facebook does eventually go public, he might be rich enough to give money away. At the moment he runs a private company ostensibly valued by its most recent investors at $10bn (£6bn). And yet, to date, its revenues (which might just stretch to $500m this year) have not quite matched the expectations implicit in that colossal valuation.Facebook is the most glaring example of an unsolved puzzle: how to convert social networking into a sustainable business. Twitter, the micro-blogging service that is now in a runaway growth phase, poses the same puzzle. In September it raised $100m in investment funding at a price that valued it at nearly $1bn. And yet, unlike Facebook, Twitter has not yet earned a cent. In 2008, Time Warner bought Bebo, another social networking site, for $850m, which was 42.5 times its revenues at the time. In 2005, Rupert Murdoch paid $580m for My Space, whose 2009 revenues have been "flat" according to a JP Morgan report, which adds that the site "continues to face challenges monetising its large audience. We see more headwinds ahead as remnant inventory pricing is declining and competition makes it more difficult to reach meaningful profitability."The truth is that investing in social networking represents the triumph of hope over experience. The optimism comes from a feeling that it's impossible to gather, say, 350 million people in one place and not somehow make money. In the real world, one would charge them admission and sell them hot dogs and overpriced T-shirts. But that doesn't work in cyberspace. If Facebook started to charge for membership, its population would dwindle to the number of people who think that its services are worth paying for – probably not that many.The conventional wisdom used to be that the key to online revenues was advertising. That, after all, is how Google got to where it is. But it turns out that Google is a special case because it specialises in search, the only area where online advertising really works. The explanation is obvious: people searching for something are likely to be deeply interested in the results, and are therefore more likely to click through to an advertiser. But in other situations – say when browsing web pages – advertising is peripheral and we have become very good at ignoring it. In 2007, the market research firm ComScore reported that 32% of internet users clicked on banner ads in a given month. By 2009, that number had fallen to 16%. ComScore also concluded that a hard core of 8% of all internet users – christened "Natural Born Clickers" – are responsible for 85% of all banner clicks on the web.Everyone who uses the web has experience of the ineffectiveness of online advertising. If it's obtrusive, it's an irritant that gets between you and the content you're seeking and you hit the "Click here to skip this advertisement" button. If it's unobtrusive, you ignore it. Either way, it's ineffective. You can't build an industry on Natural Born Clickers. The inescapable conclusion is that anyone who thinks advertising is the key to sustainable online businesses in any field other than search should think again.
Vauxhall, south London, at 8.30am on a grey December morning is a dismal place. A place to hurry through, headphones on, mind off, doing the zombie speed-walk between tube station and office. It takes something unusual to divert people  from their course, let alone stop in their tracks."Waterboarding! Waterboarding! Anyone fancy some? We're up for it – we like it hardcore…""Could you hold me in a stress position, sir?""We want to be tortured! We know you're good at it!"On the steps of the MI6 building, in front of the bombproof steel walls, six strikingly clad people are going all out to engage the Vauxhall public. All out. One young man, an open-faced chap in open-backed PVC shorts, has his sturdy white bum exposed to the elements. He waggles it at commuters and asks for a slapping. When no one obliges, his compadre, a tall fellow squeezed into a tight orange all-in-one, steps in to administer some firm-handed discipline. Equally enthusiastic are a bondaged-up catgirl, a long-coated man who resembles Lurch on a bad day, a bloke in black Lycra with complicated leather accessories and an ooh-saucy dominatrix. They're busy whipping, choking, putting each other's heads on a wooden board and pouring water down each other's throats. And trying to get passers-by to join in.A cyclist stops. "Raunchy," he says to me. "Looks like fun."MI6's security guard is less impressed. "You can't film here," he says to the two camerapeople who are recording the fetishists' every position. They say sorry, politely, but continue to film."Could we come into MI6?" asks bottom-out boy, whose name is Ben Taylor. "We don't mind if they ignore us once we're there. That's kinky too."The security guard harrumphs and makes a phone call. Two policemen arrive on motorbikes. They are wearing leather trousers. The gimps get excited."Ooh!" says Ben. "Have you got a truncheon?""Handcuffs?" wonders Howard "Mr Orange" Royale, Tango man with the juice sucked out. He holds his skinny wrists towards the policeman and looks at him expectantly.All good, clean fun, and actually not so unfamiliar to Vauxhall: under the railway arches around the corner from MI6 is the Hoist, an S&amp;M nightclub. Which is partly  the point. The kinkily clad crew are the stars of a mockumentary being made by Don't Panic TV (DPTV): supposedly about bondage, but actually about how MI6 has been complicit in the torture of terror suspects overseas. A serious point made by a silly film which pretends that masochists from the Hoist, after a decent night's abuse, come to MI6 to get some harder stuff."Even when people were just walking past when they were asking for some waterboarding, that was fine," says Heydon Prowse, the film's director. "Because pretending it isn't happening is just what MI6 have been doing.""I'd hate to be nicked abroad," says Joseph Wade, from Don't Panic. "MI6 don't seem to do anything about British citizens being thrown into jail. They're too busy turning a blind eye to 'enhanced interrogation techniques' so they can get intelligence about terrorism."We are in Starbucks, across the road from MI6. The fetishists – all actors, apart from catgirl Caisa Ederyd, who just likes a laugh – are sipping frothy coffee and being carefully ignored by the clientele. The more warmly dressed Prowse, a tall, skinny 28-year-old, sits with Wade, 33, even taller and skinnier. These are the men behind the fake documentary. Prowse, along with William Pine, one of the camera operators (the other is Lindsay Cole), makes films for Don't Panic TV; Wade, along with Nick Agha, who is not here, heads Don't Panic.Don't Panic has been going for almost 10 years. It's a modern media company that makes and distributes packs of flyers (you see them in cool clothes shops), provides guerrilla marketing for brands including PlayStation and has a dynamic, funny website. I rent an office directly above Don't Panic's, and the staff are friendly, creative, internet-savvy: 15 years ago, they would have been employed by theFace. They're the kind of twentysomethings usually dismissed as Nathan Barleys, but they're more interesting than that. Because beneath the on-trend haircuts and sarcastic banter beat radical hearts. Prowse's favourite publication isPrivate Eye. Wade is a member of Compass, a Labour pressure group for electoral reform.And Don't Panic TV is political, with a small p. "A cross between journalism, comedy and activism," according to Prowse, Don't Panic's hilarious on-line films are concerned with exposing hypocrisy in all forms and have become a justified online hit. Their tone is light and mocking, never hectoring. "You might be really angry about the state of the world," says Prowse, "but if you get angry with people, you're not going to get very far."So, there is a film showing Prowse digging up Tory MP Alan Duncan's garden to put in a new flower bed in the shape of a pound sign; one of him cleaning Labour MP Barbara Follett's windows so she won't have to claim for it on expenses; in another, he padlocks  the door to Nobu so the restaurant owners have the time to replenish its stocks of environmentally dodgy blue-fin tuna. One of my favourites is a film of some young black British citizens being turned away from a Dagenham BNP meeting, while a blond, Swedish, benefit-claiming immigrant – Caisa again - is welcomed in.Don't Panic's most notorious video came out last August, after Prowse met  Duncan at the Commons andsecretly filmed himsaying that MPs were treated "like shit" and would soon be "forced to live on rations". The story exploded all over the media and Duncan lost his job as shadow Leader of the House.Prowse was taken aback atthe furore, but has no regrets for showing up Duncan. "He's not a principled person," he says. "He's a gay politician with links to Oman, a country that throws gay people into jail. I don't have any respect for that. And he didn't have any respect for me. Because I'm not an established political journalist, he thought it didn't matter what he said."The films, says Wade, are a step on from Don't Panic'sbeautifully produced posters, which are included in the flyer pack. Half are designed by well-known people (Banksy did an early one, as did Shepard Fairey); and half are designed by people who visitDon't Panic's website. The posters have broad themes such as War, or Death, or Peace: perfect for an angry young person's bedroom wall."There are a lot of young people who are political," says Wade, "but it's hard for them to get involved. We can raise the issues and link our audience to a campaign or to a site for Human Rights Watch or Amnesty. There's only so much you can do on your own, you need to join a group."He thinks that the films are getting better – more Mark Thomas, lessJackass– and cites the recent Nobu tuna one, which has interviews with marine biologists, as well as a spot of secret filming and a stunt. And they're making headway into the mainstream: Don't Panic are already working with charities to help highlight issues and both he and Prowse have had discussions with proper telly people who would like to turn their films into a TV show.Oh no! I moan. Won't real telly kill the films? The joy of them is their bravery, immediacy, daftness. Their internet-ness."The good thing about them is that we can react immediately to a news story," agrees Prowse. "We just think of an idea, put it out there and it has an effect. The internet is a massive leveller. It's taken the power from out of TV companies' hands and put it in people's hands and that's great. Something like this MI6 film cost nothing. We borrowed the gear from Bondage for Freedom, the actors did it for free. It would be nice to have money so we could pay them. But other than that…""Maybe it would be good to go on TV because we want to keep issues like MI6 in the public eye," ponders Wade. "We want the government and the attorney general to continue to investigate. But on TV, I don't think we would be allowed to do what we want. And it wouldn't be so much fun. Taking S&amp;M fanatics to MI6? This is a laugh."
