Are there any Windows utilities that can colour-code or tag folders in Explorer to make them easier to spot? I'm using XP Pro. Rachel CarthyWindows XP uses special icons for special folders such as My Documents, My Music and My Pictures. However, you can use a different icon for any folder. If you are really keen, you can download an icon editor and create your own. To change the icon, open Windows Explorer, right-click the folder and select Properties. Go to the Customize tab and click the button at the bottom that says Change Icon. This offers a choice of more than 200 icons from the shell32.dll file, or you can browse to find any icon you like. (To restore the default, choose the folder icon in the bottom left-hand corner.) Alternatively, the Customize option lets you choose a picture for the folder, but it only shows up in the Thumbnails view.Backchat:Nicholas Mandich and Steve Bullman have both suggested the free LabelsWin (http://www.proggle.com/labels/lite/), which lets you assigning colour labels to folder icons. "This feature first appeared in Mac OS 9 and has thus far remained unavailable in Windows," writes Nicholas. Ian Flett and Ian McRobert have suggested "a little postcardware utility," Rainbow Folders (http://www.english.aionel.net/rf.htm). There are, of course, other options. Many thanks for the feedback!
Can you recommend some good freeware for dealing with FTP sites? At present, I just paste the address into my browser - usually Mozilla Firefox, but sometimes that doesn't work, so I have to resort to Internet Explorer. Kathy ArnoldThere are more than a hundred FTP (File Transfer Protocol) programs for Windows but FileZilla is both very good and open source, so try it first (http://filezilla.sourceforge.net/documentation). It works with Windows 9x and NT/XP. FTP Basics has a quick guide to using FileZilla athttp://support.easystreet.com/hosting/unix/ftpbasics.htm
A friend has asked me to have a look at some problems he's having on his PC. I would like to be able to link his laptop to mine so I can run my virus checkers, etc, on his hard drive. Chris RowburyYou could link them using a crossover cable to connect the two Ethernet ports. However, I recommend copying whatever software you need to a "thumb drive" and plugging this into the USB port of your friend's laptop. I have a memory drive for exactly this purpose. I loaded it withSysInternals' Process Explorer,HiJackThisandSilent Runners), among other things. These run from the USB port without installation. Windows XP also includes a Remote Assistance feature so you can control your friend's PC using Windows Messenger over the internet. SeeWindows help and support.
This week's Technology section is here, on paper. And here, on the web.InToy soldiers, Pat Kane looks at the increasingly explicit links between digital gaming and the military. You might have thought that Ender's Game was just a story back in 1977, but with "games" like America's Army being designed to recruit people, is the tale becoming reality?Why the music industry needs a Canute: Vic Keegan on how it's not the young who have abandoned the business - quite the reverse.Ignore the spin: the best is yet to come. The Xbox 360 is being launched this week (if you can get one) - but should you rush out and (try to) get one, or wait a month or two? Our games experts have the lowdown.Lighten up, developers, and let the kids have fun: Keith Stuart argues that the videogames industry has lost touch with its inner child.This week's letters: the bit of the section that you write. (We like that.)Ask Jack: the bit of the section that you write half of - the questions. Jack Schofield provides the answers. Don't miss theAsk Jack blog, either. Plus Innovations:Skype 2.0,Shure E3C headphones, theOrange SPV C600, andGoogle Space(it's a space run by Google).
Of all the people I've met in 25 years in the computer business, the one I most admire is Andy Grove. Not only was he a brilliant businessman, he had an astonishing grasp of the nuts and bolts of the operation down to the lowest level -- and he also had the academic's ability to look at the whole structure from outside and understand how it worked. Most CEO's of giant corporations can manage one of those, and some two, but all three is rare.That makes Andy Grove "the best model we have for leading a business in the 21st century," according to a long piece in the December 12 issue of Fortune magazine:The Education of Andy Grove.Disappointinlgy, there's little that's new in the article, but if you haven't been following Grove or Intel for 25 years, it's a very readable round-up.
Shacknews.com has beenfollowingan ongoing exchange between well-known US movie critic Roger Ebert and visitors to hiswebsite, concerning a recentreviewof the Doom movie. In it, Ebert mentions his apathy toward discovering more about the source material, and when a gamer takes him to task on this dismissive standpoint (via the website'sletters page), the reviewer replies:"I believe books and films are better mediums, and better uses of my time. But how can I say that when I admit I am unfamiliar with video games? Because I have recently seen classic films by Fassbinder, Ozu, Herzog, Scorsese and Kurosawa, and have recently read novels by Dickens, Cormac McCarthy, Bellow, Nabokov and Hugo, and if there were video games in the same league, someone somewhere who was familiar with the best work in all three mediums would have made a convincing argument in their defense."Predictably, this provoked an onslaught of vitriol, to which Ebert charitably replied again, softening on his original stance..."I am prepared to believe that video games can be elegant, subtle, sophisticated, challenging and visually wonderful. But I believe the nature of the medium prevents it from moving beyond craftsmanship to the stature of art."Craftsmenship or art? The old argument has just taking off in a wild new semantic direction!Read the 247 comments to the Shacknews report and decide for yourself whether:a) Games are art or just well-crafted entertainment b) People should really be gettingthisupset about the whole issue
I can't believe it's hot butter. Photograph: David SillitoeOnce again, technology comes to the aid of everyone trying to solve one of life's age-old problems: how to make sure the butter is easy to spread. Here'sCNet's story (from Reuters):A U.K.-based company has launched a portable, temperature-controlled butter dish, ButterWizard, that keeps butter at what it says is the optimal spreadable temperature of 65 degrees Fahrenheit.It has a built-in fan and a chip that together control the temperature, adjustable for different textures, be it super-soft bread, crusty toast or delicate biscuits. "We were trying to find out what people's frustration with butter was. It's either too hard or too soft," said David Alfille, managing director of East Sussex-based Alfille Innovations Limited.Just the kind of thing to generate headlines and silly stories (the cheeky scamps at The Register say "Marlon Brando would have loved it"). Me? I love the idea: it's helping mydairy technology fixationcontinues apace.
Ever since eBay announced in September it would splash out $4bn on Skype, things have been surprisingly quiet for internet telephony's most visible pioneer.However, today Skype launches a new version of its software. Though there have been changes, the program - which uses your computer to reroute telephone calls across the net - remains fundamentally the same. Phone calls to other Skype users are free, and connecting to numbers outside the system offers lower-than-normal network prices. You can buy a virtual phone number, or hook up an internet telephone handset to replace your landline.The biggest change with Skype 2.0 is the addition of video calling. With the click of a button, users can connect their webcam and make calls. Video is easy to set up, and the quality is better than most competitors. At the moment, the capability is limited to calls between Skype users only."There's a fast-growing, active base of people who have got used to using Skype to make calls," says Saul Klein, vice president of the company. "It's not going to be for everyone, and it's certainly not going to be in every circumstance, but to give people the ability to see one another as well as to talk to one another is going to be a very powerful thing."Quality video calling has always been promised but rarely delivered, and there are questions about how Skype might fare if millions start using it. Users may not forgive echo or timelag if they apply to pictures as well as sound. But if Skype can succeed, it could hand a lifeline to the flaccid 3G videophone market. The ability to make video calls to mobiles from your PC could help rebuild 3G's reputation.Elsewhere, the program's interface has been streamlined and cleaned up. Useful functions - call forwarding and voicemail - are easier to find, and the screen remains uncluttered. What is missing is the expected torrent of eBay links; there is no flashy ad for the auction site and no real advertising of any kind.Another advantage Skype has over its competitors is a huge, global user base that can make the most of its cost-saving benefits. Registrations have rocketed recently by around 15 million. The company now has more than 68m registered users worldwide, and claims it is accepting around 35,000 new signups every day in China alone.So is this simply a case of trying to stay ahead of the curve, or is it a play for something bigger? That's difficult to say. It's certainly an improvement. If you use it for messaging, things are now more compelling. If you want videoconferencing, there's a clever new option on the table. But for its fundamental purpose - voice calls over the internet - nothing really competes.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You may have noticed that a new games console is launching in Europe tomorrow. Today's Technology supplement adds to the hype/unravels the spin bytaking a lookat what the 360 offers - and what it lacks. There is also awider lookat the console market generally, the highlight of which, in the paper version anyway, is a picture of the Dreamcast. Keef would be proud. Talking of which, our very own Gamesblogger wonders, quite rightly,where gaming's inner child has gone. The final games article in this busy weekraises concernsover the increasing links between gaming and the military. In the US especially, this is serious stuff.
If there's one man who's working for his paycheck this week, it's Neil Thompson, the Senior Regional Director, Northern &amp; Eastern Europe, Home and Entertainment Division, Microsoft Corporation. I'm meeting withthe man in charge of our Xbox 360sthis afternoon to grill him about the features of the new console, finally available to the Euro lot after 10 gruelling days ofresponsefrom the North American contingent. The interview will be 'cast on this site later tonight - in audio format, depending upon my mad skills with editing technology - at around 5pm.UPDATE: Podcast fans can subscribe to theGamesblog Podcast Feedto get the interview automatically.
You've just spent &pound;150 on an MP3 player, which came with a free pair of headphones. Now, are you ready to spend about the same amount to get a better pair? That's the poser for those considering the Shure E3C headphones. What you will get, for certain, is a lot more quiet: the Shure's earbuds are intended to block out extraneous sound (97%, the company says) so all you should hear is the blissful sound of Bach or whichever extreme death metal group has caught your fancy this week. Or, of course, a Ricky Gervais podcast downloaded from the website from Monday.The experience of inserting the buds into your ears is initially very discomforting; you feel as though you're disobeying those warnings from your parents not to stick things into your ears. Standard earbuds sit a little outside the ear canal, and let plenty of outside air, and hence noise, in; the E3Cs go right in there, and leave you feeling cut off in a strange silence. Then you turn on the music, and your head should be filled with pure sound. At least in theory.I tried them on a number of train and tube journeys, and found it a mixed experience. The cord is quite thick, so walking can dislodge the earbuds, losing clarity. Getting the earbuds correctly placed and balanced is difficult; often one ear or the other seemed to get more input. And when they shifted, the treble and bass dropped abruptly. While they're terrific at cutting outside sound (I never heard a train announcement), if you try to sing along with a favourite, your voice seems alarmingly close; it's very hard to judge what volume you're speaking at when wearing these.Even so, when they worked correctly, the Shure E3Cs were very good. But are they &pound;149-worth of very good? There can be an advantage in being able to hear some of what goes on around you. But if you really want to hear what you are listening to in detail, these could be just the thing.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft hopes the Xbox 360 will win the sixth round of the games console wars. Previous rounds have been won by Atari, the Nintendo Entertainment System, Sega's MegaDrive, Sony's PlayStation and PlayStation 2. Either way, the battle will follow the same basic pattern.The main feature of the console market is that companies lose money in the early stages and cash in later. The launch costs are huge: creators have to design the system, set up production lines, write games and market them before getting a penny back. Then they sell hardware at a loss to build market share.As the market matures, a console becomes cheaper to make, and games can reach anything from 20m to 100m users. Games are expensive to write but cheap to manufacture, so hits are massively profitable, and more than repay the initial investment.Given this structure, the market leader wants to put off the launch of its next generation as long as possible, because this will tend to replace hugely profitable sales of its current system with unprofitable sales of its next one. It's therefore in Sony's interest to prolong the life of the PS2, not switch to a PS3 that will initially - because of its Cell processor and Blu-Ray drive - be very expensive to manufacture.Things look different to the market challengers. A company not making money from its console - and Microsoft has been losing $1bn a year, on average, since launching the Xbox in 2001 - has an incentive to cut its losses and move on.Sometimes this strategy works. Nintendo dominated the 1980s console market, with the NES thrashing Sega's Master System, so it was slow to launch the Super Nintendo. This allowed Sega to take over with the MegaDrive and Sonic the Hedgehog. But Sega failed to learn from Nintendo's mistake. It tried to prolong the MegaDrive's life with add-ons such as the Mega CD, leaving a fickle market open to the attractions of the PlayStation.In the next round, Sony wanted to keep milking its PlayStation business. Sega cut its losses on the Sega Saturn and moved to the next generation early with the Dreamcast. Sony overpromised on the capabilities of the PS2 and its Emotion Engine, to encourage buyers to wait. The Dreamcast didn't get a big enough user base to survive. And although there was initial disappointment with the PS2, it was good enough to become the market leader. The question now is whether the Xbox will win, like the MegaDrive, or lose, like the Dreamcast.The one thing that Microsoft is doing differently is launching the Xbox 360 at the same time in all the major markets. Usually consoles appear first in Japan, then in north America, and only reach Europe a year to 18 months later. Sony is unlikely to launch simultaneously because it can't ship enough systems to satisfy its loyal fan base. This could give the Xbox 360 the European market to itself until late 2007.But whoever wins, Microsoft sees consoles as a focus for music, movies and online gaming, so it will be back for round seven. The company has $40bn in the bank, and nothing better to spend it on. And remember, Microsoft often takes three goes to get something right.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The videogame industry has lost touch with its inner child. A glance at the key releases over the past few weeks reveals just one major title ostensibly aimed at youngsters - and that is Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, a game developed with more than a nod to the wizard's legion of adult fans.Elsewhere, the festive chart is a nightmarish, gut-splattered collision of zombies, street yobs, robotic assassins and killer cowboys. The Xbox 360 launch lineup is so dark it could have been assembled by Fight Club author Chuck Palahniuk in a serious downer.Even previously kiddie-friendly favourites are being given a dark edge to appease older gamers. The latest Sonic the Hedgehog title is Shadow the Hedgehog, in which the lead character is tormented by his past as he battles a character named Black Doom. There's probably a scene with Sonic and Knuckles drunk and fighting over a kebab. The latest Tony Hawk game is subtitled American Wasteland, the action moving from skateparks to back streets filled with swearing teenagers. Even SingStar, a bastion of family fun, is being advertised as the accompaniment to alcohol-soaked parties.At the same time, the industry is becoming ever more aware of its responsibilities to younger players - but in a really awkward way. Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft recently announced the inclusion of parental lock facilities on their next-generation consoles. Soon, each game's Pegi rating (the industry's self-governed age rating) will be encoded on to the disc, so that titles above a specified rating won't run without a passcode. Xbox 360 allows you to prevent your kids from sharing their identity online.But what about commissioning some games that are suitable for children? I don't mean awful cartoon tie-ins, but intricate fantasy worlds. In these days of powerful graphics processors, where a convincing human can be generated with ease, the stylised characters of yore - Donkey Kong and Pac-Man - are superseded by anonymous tough guys. Only Nintendo now takes the family audience seriously. We're unlikely to see Mario and Luigi busting up crack houses.Modern games sell themselves on "reality", but often they present a stark universe in which authentic physics are valued over wonder and imagination. Hopefully, when developers truly get used to today's awe-inspiring hardware, they'll loosen up a bit.Forthcoming titles such as the bizarre rubbish collection game We Love Katamari, and Capcom's visually astonishing adventure Okami should help the industry rediscover its light side ... before darkness, to misquote Yoda, forever dominates its destiny.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Released in 2002, the first Orange SPV was a true breakthrough. Not only was it the first smartphone to run using Windows and feature versions of Outlook, Windows Media and Word, it was also the first chunky phone with a comfortable web surfing experience. There have been many incarnations of the SPV, the most important of which was last year's C500. Smaller than previous models, the C500 was easier to use and had a superb screen.Earlier this year, Orange revamped the range again with the SPV C550, a handset that it billed as a music phone. Yet the C550, which was slightly chunkier than its predecessor, also included a 1.3 megapixel camera.With the SPV C600, Orange has ditched the music buttons and added Windows Mobile 5.0. It is the first handset in Europe to use this operating system, and it is certainly an improvement. Hitting the Start button now brings up an icon-based interface that is a cut above the previous menu options.The other major upgrade is the C600's joystick control, which is far better than the previous rocker. It's more useful not just for navigating the menu system, but also if you use the phone for gaming. The 1.3 megapixel camera also works well and takes shots with richer colours than many of its rivals, though those images tend to be a little bright.In some ways, the SPV C600 is a missed opportunity. Wi-Fi would have been an obvious upgrade, not just for faster web browsing, but also to use with Skype. A Qwerty keypad would have been welcome, too, even if it added bulk. And it seems strange not to make the phone operate on the 3G network - the SPV C600 is GPRS-only in the UK.So is it worth swapping your previous SPV? There really aren't enough reasons to upgrade from a C550. Even from a SPV C500, the better screen, superior operating system and improved quality might not tempt you. Something better is just round the corner.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Google may be the leading search engine brand, but very few people know about the company's additional products such as Google Earth, Google Local, Google Mobile and Picasa. To remedy this, the company has opened its first internet cafe-cum-live-laboratory at Heathrow.Initially, the trial will run until Christmas, but it could continue into next year. "We have already been offered the space for a second month," explains Andy Ku, Google's product marketing manager. "We might also launch at airports and other venues across the world."For travellers wanting to kill time before boarding their flight, Google Space is perfect. According to the company's research, the average traveller wastes more than nine hours a year waiting for flights at British airports. Rather than paying Heathrow's hotspot providers &pound;5 an hour for web access, at Google Space you can surf the net and read your email for nothing. Ten Samsung M50 laptops have been provided, and members of staff are on hand to help.Google is hoping travellers will try out its new products at the same time as checking their email, and that appeared to be the case during our visit. The area has been developed with the traveller in mind, with images from Google Earth projected on to the walls and icons for Google's travel services on the desktop. One woman from Kansas was delighted when staff showed her how to use Google Local to find a hotel in Prague.But the biggest hit was Google Earth. "It's absolutely amazing," said Taher Hussain, as Google Earth flew him to his home town of Queenstown, New Zealand. Roberto Olivo, an Italian business consultant, was similarly impressed - though he would have preferred 3D images. "It's excellent looking at landscapes but it doesn't show the height of buildings," he said as he zoomed in on his Los Angeles hotel.Still, it didn't seem to spoil his enjoyment: he became so engrossed in Google Earth that he only stopped when his name was read out over the Tannoy. He probably won't be the only one to nearly miss his plane.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Games console, digital hub, white box under the television? The Xbox 360, which launches tomorrow in the UK, is all of these. Microsoft, which lost billions gaining a foothold in the $25bn (&pound;14.5bn) games industry with the original Xbox, is aiming for first-player advantage (see Console wars, below).First impressions are very good: it comes in a marvel of modern packaging - a box as small as it could possibly be, considering the gear it carries. You instantly feel it is a classy piece of kit.Out of the box, the feelgood factor persists. The 360 is more handsome than its predecessor, especially once you have hidden the enormous power supply. The wireless controller is spot-on: nicely sized and weighted, and sporting a new button you must press and hold to synch it with console. Don't buy the cheaper Core package with its wired controller: you will only end up buying one of the clip-on hard disks anyway.It fits nicely under your TV, which is important. Connectivity is a key feature: Microsoft aims to make the box the cornerstone of the connected home.To that end, much of the emphasis at demonstrations has been on the non-gaming functions. The DVD playback is certainly good enough for most, and makes a separate player unnecessary. You can connect a digital camera or, remarkably, an Apple iPod - Microsoft decided not to be territorial - and create a slideshow of pictures. You won't, however, be able to play songs bought from the iTunes Music Store, nor import iPod songs or other MP3s; you will also have to re-rip your CDs if you want to store them on the 360.Gaming filtersAnd then there is Live, the online gaming service. It's a coherent and easily accessible way to play games via the net, and is integral to the 360. Everyone gets access to a basic online service, allowing voice and text messaging (you create your own identity on the Gamer Profile system). But if you want to compete against others, you have to pay &pound;40. There's an eBay-style rating system to filter out timewasters, while the "marketplace" - where you can buy game demos, trailers and themes plus retro arcade titles - should do well.Despite the undoubted appeal of the multimedia functions, the games are the main attraction. The launch lineup is solid, without being spectacular. There isn't a must-have title, although Kameo's spectacular visuals hint at what is to come. This third-person fantasy action game will have you gawping, particularly if you have a high-definition TV set. Sadly, it won't offer you a new gaming experience: it is straightforward action/puzzling, albeit in a luscious environment. Once you have finished admiring the waving blades of grass, you are left with a beautiful yet shallow experience.Many of the other titles available are compelling instalments of existing franchises: Project Gotham Racing 3, Call of Duty 2 and Quake 4. Sega's Condemned is dark but involving and original. Tony Hawk's American Wasteland and Fifa 06 are better than you'd expect, but Perfect Dark Zero is disjointed and confusing unless played against other humans.Developers always take a fair time learning how to harness the power of a new console, and the Xbox 360 is no exception. It will be at least six months before they begin to unleash a decent percentage of the power of the beast that lurks under its bonnet. Rory Armes, vice president and general manager of Electronic Art's UK studio, is confident the 360's potential will be realised: "Consumers will have rich experiences and emotional connection to the fiction like never before," he says.Project Gotham Racing 3 offers the most clues to what Xbox 360 games will be like when the console reaches adolescence. Its gloriously crisp graphics - near photo-realistic renderings of London, New York and Las Vegas are familiar enough to cause a sharp intake of breath - are streets ahead of anything we have seen before. But two other aspects of the game hint at the console's capabilities: the individually modelled spectators, who jump back when you hit the barriers and pop their camera flashes when you pass them at speed; and Gotham TV, which lets you watch the top match-ups taking place on Xbox 360 Live as they unfold.This added graphical oomph has already had an impact for developers. "The role of game artist is moving much closer to their counterparts in the film industry and our team sizes have grown dramatically," says Tom Williams, technical director at Climax's Racing studio.Waiting for the revolutionMuch of the hype surrounding the machine concerns high definition TV. High-def televisions will become more common, with Sky, Telewest and others soon to broadcast HD content. At the moment, though, HD TVs are relatively rare in the UK. A test on a Samsung HD screen gave impressive results, but the 360 graphics still shine on standard TVs.There are problems, though. The two-tier system is likely to cause confusion and may stymie development. There are also issues with the design. The power supply is huge, and could ruin the clean lines in your living room. The noise of the internal fan can become a distraction, while the console can get very warm.So, Microsoft has placed its marker, and is banking on gamers deciding to make the leap now rather than waiting for PlayStation 3 or Nintendo's Revolution. The multimedia functions add to the appeal, and online gaming is now integral to the platform. However, with the launch lineup lacking a real must-buy, and the bigger hitters - Oblivion and Gears of War - not due until spring, there is a solid argument for not rushing in. The Xbox 360 has bags of potential and is a delight to use, but the gaming revolution is some way off yet.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Don't trust your memories to throwaway technologyTom Ang's article on the astonishing explosion of digital photography (Seeing the big picture, November 24) tells only half the story. Yes, the new cameras have given us control over every pixel in our images. Yes, we can take vast numbers of pictures without feeling that we are really "paying" for them. Yes, tiny phone cameras enable us to seize instant images in extraordinary situations.But this throwaway technology comes at a price. Don't forget the pleasures of rediscovering snaps at the bottom of a shoe box. Cherish the delights of old pictures of your children; the prints have hardly faded in the past 30 years. Negatives and slides are almost everlasting, if properly cared for. Remember this when your hard disk crashes and all your "safely" stored digital photos are annihilated.Maurice George, Ormskirk, LancashireThere is no doubt that digital photography has revolutionised the world of imaging. There is also no question that the medium's explosion has led to digital image "pollution". There is no better example than Flickr.com.My chosen medium was film until about a year ago, when Canon released its 20D digital camera. Despite a long attachment to my Canon EOS-3 film camera (a superb machine), I have all but abandoned it for the digital medium. The number of photographs I take on any given outing has increased by a factor of at least three. I have just returned from a two-week trip to Rajasthan with 2,500 images. The great impact of the digital revolution is the opportunity for ordinary photographers to hone their skills. The 2,500 images may yield only a few hundred good photographs, but that's a considerable improvement over the few that I would have harvested in the past.Image pollution comes without any real cost. Images can be scanned or ignored as the viewer sees fit.Bill Holmes, North Bethesda, USTake heart, Tom Ang; photographers haven't all been converted by the digital demon. I look at the subject of my picture when I shoot, not its image on a postage stamp-sized screen; I wait for the right moment before I shoot, rather than blaze away and delete hundreds of duds later; I'm happier coming home with rolls of undeveloped film snug in my bag than fragile memory cards. And what better way to prolong your holiday than the thump of prints hitting the mat?Chris RogersInformation saves livesMichael Cross (The complications of a botched operation, November 24) makes some interesting points. However, his assertion about emergency practice is wrong: "When that information could save a life - that famous penicillin allergy, for example - the data is better conveyed in a piece of medical alert jewellery worn next to a pulse point."Having spent approximately 15 years working in and around A&amp;E departments, I can assure him that the uptake of medical alert bracelets is very low and, even when they are worn, they are often not up to date - and frequently less legible than a doctor's handwriting.The availability of medical history "out of town" is a strong selling point of the NHS National Programme for IT. It has the potential to make a real difference.Rod WardBlogBackWhile it's true that digital means anyone can now take and transmit photographs in a way that wasn't possible using film, Tom Ang doesn't address the issue of the quality of all the extra photographs taken as a result, and I think this is probably one area where Theodore Sturgeon's assertion that "90% of everything is crap" errs on the side of generosity.keithramsey.blogspot.comThursdays are looking good now: most remarkable is that there's a full page on games. And not under a "what to buy for your teenage relative" heading: proper reviews of good games, written in an adult style. Last week was a balanced review (All the fun of the fear, November 24) that gave a fair picture of the game. Just what you want from a national paper with a wide, varied audience.thewiredjester.blogware.com
When King Canute gathered his courtiers to command the incoming waves to stop, he was trying to prove not that he could do it, but that he could not. The music industry, which is still acting as if it could control the waves, badly needs a Canute.No one pretends there isn't a problem. A fascinating report this week by JupiterResearch shows that while downloading tracks free from file-sharing sites has stopped growing, it is still highest (surprise, surprise) among younger users. Its survey of Europe found that 34% of 15- to 24-year-olds were file sharing and, ominously, many had "little concept of music as a paid commodity". It warns that of the 46% of online youngsters who use the net to buy music, 43% prefer to copy than buy CDs, and that unless the recording industry can "transition" them to paid-for formats it could suffer long-term harm.But hang on. Are not these 15- to 24-year-olds the same people shelling out &pound;2.50 a pop for ringtones, thereby creating a new multibillion industry (not included in music sales)? Maybe they haven't lost the buying habit - it's just that ringtones have an easy payment system. They haven't left the music industry: it has left them. How different it could have been if the record industry had embraced a fair online payments system instead of threatening to sue youngsters in order to extract high-profile settlements from their families - hardly an approach to endear customers. Or civil liberty lobbies. It was left to payment schemes from outside the recording industry - mainly Apple - to rescue the industry.It was the runaway success of paid-for downloads, coupled with a revival of CD buying, thanks to the likes of Coldplay, that led to a big revival in overall music sales in the UK this year: hence the sharp rise in underlying profits reported by EMI last week. The music industry, ringtones and all, is booming.Most people are not criminals. Even on Jupiter's figures, around 80% of youngsters are not into illegal file sharing. That is a lot of people to sell to, and of the minority, most got into the habit partly because until recently there were no easy payments systems. Interestingly, the emergence of them coincided with a halt in the growth of file sharing. Young people also have other claims on their pocket money, such as computer games and DVDs, as Jupiter points out.Of course, wholesalers of downloads that encourage illegal freeloading should be clamped down on and, yes, there are lots of people who have downloaded what they would otherwise have paid for. But they are partially offset by people such as me who have suddenly started buying single tracks again because it is so easy to do. Remember, also, that surveys have shown that heavy file sharers often increase rather than reduce their purchases of tracks.Meanwhile, things are happening that the industry ignores at its peril. New chart toppers Arctic Monkeys, an indie group, have inverted the paradigm. They give away their tracks on the net to generate enough buzz for punters to start buying. This removed the burden of expensive advertising, promotion and the middlemen the industry is protecting. Rupert Murdoch was shrewd to buy MySpace.com, one of the sites where new groups can put their records in a digital shop window without losing their rights to a major label.A new US service enables people to download tunes from an internet radio station to their iPods. Wow. This is claimed to be a legal timeshift operation like recording a TV show for later use. Why can't radios on mobiles be enabled to record as well? Welcome to the next exciting stage of the music revolution. Whether the major labels will still be there in 10 years is a moot point. Meanwhile, they would be wise not to rest on their back catalogues.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Speed checkedBroadband internet connections are increasingly priced on speed. What checks are there that you get the speed you paid for? I have a 1Mbps cable connection, and it's more like 100kbps on average.Dick SmithJack Schofield:Broadband connections are priced on the maximum possible speed, but there is no guarantee that your line will ever reach it. The connection also comes with a "contention ratio", which is the number of people competing with you for a fixed amount of bandwidth. With a business service, the contention ratio may be 10:1 or 20:1. With a home service, it is usually 50:1Normally, the contention ratio does not make a lot of difference, because most people are not surfing the net all the time, and when they are, they do a mixture of downloading and reading. However, if you are contending with people who are trying to achieve their maximum download and upload speeds 24 hours a day - keen peer-to-peer file sharers, say - that could have an effect.But even if you had your own dedicated line, the rest of the internet is still contended. All the cables and routers in the system, including the ISP's backbone lines, carry limited amounts of traffic, and bottlenecks are common. If thousands of people hit the same site at the same time, it doesn't really matter what your download speed is: you won't get it.Having said that, I'd expect most users to get something approaching their nominal speed, especially when downloading from a fast server at an off-peak time. The simplest way to find out is to run one of the many broadband speed tests. The best, in my experience, is Dan Elwell's Broadband Speed Test, atwww.broadbandspeedtest.net. This is the recommended speed test for Telewest's Blueyonder cable service, and should give a fair reading for your cable connection. ADSL Guide also has a useful test atwww.adslguide.org.uk/tools/speedtest.asp.Note: a worthwhile test will usually involve downloading a Java applet. Tests that rely on downloading a large web page, probably from the US, will not tell you the speed of your connection. At best they give the speed across a congested internet to what could be an overloaded server.You can also check the speed to a particular site by using the Traceroute command. This will tell you about all the hops between your PC and a remote server, with the time taken in milliseconds, so you can spot any bottlenecks. See Robin Walker's site (http://masl.to/?F36D12C3C) for an explanation, and many good tips for troubleshooting cable modems.Xbox 360 hacksCan the new Xbox 360 be used as a computer to run Windows XP applications?Frederick Omo-OsagieJS:No. The Xbox 360 uses a version of Windows NT Embedded, based on the same code as Windows XP, but it's not designed to run XP software. In any case, the Xbox 360 uses a processor based on IBM's PowerPC, as used in Apple Macs: this is not compatible with standard XP software written for Intel chips. However, Free60 is attempting to hack the Xbox 360 to run GNU/Linux and Darwin, the Unix code on which Mac OS X is based. Seewww.free60.org.Folder showAre there any Windows utilities that can colour-code or tag folders in Explorer to make them easier to spot? I'm using XP Pro.Rachel CarthyJS:Windows XP uses special icons for special folders such as My Documents, My Music and My Pictures. However, you can use a different icon for any folder. If you are really keen, you can download an icon editor and create your own. To change the icon, open Windows Explorer, right-click the folder and select Properties. Go to the Customize tab and click the button at the bottom that says Change Icon. This offers a choice of more than 200 icons from the shell32.dll file, or you can browse to find any icon you like. (To restore the default, choose the folder icon in the bottom left-hand corner.) Alternatively, the Customize option lets you choose a picture for the folder, but it only shows up in the Thumbnails view.Traffic lightsI've lost the icon displayed on the Taskbar as two computer screens communicating. As this was the icon I use to disconnect, I am now forced to close down the PC to go offline.Owen StaleyJS:Go to the Control Panel and select the item for network connections. Right-click the icon for your connection, select Properties and, under the General tab, put a tick in the box where it says: "Show icon in notification area when connected". Searching for this phrase will provide links to Microsoft help files and various illustrated guides. Also, if you have a desktop icon for your network connection, right-clicking that will give you the option to disconnect, while the Windows Task Manager (press Ctrl-Alt-Del) will close any application.File transferCan you recommend some good freeware for dealing with FTP sites? At present, I just paste the address into my browser - usually Mozilla Firefox, but sometimes that doesn't work, so I have to resort to Internet Explorer.Kathy ArnoldJS:There are more than a hundred FTP (File Transfer Protocol) programs for Windows but FileZilla is both very good and open source, so try it first (http://filezilla.sourceforge.net/documentation). It works with Windows 9x and NT/XP. FTP Basics has a quick guide to using FileZilla athttp://masl.to/?L25D15C3C.PC helpA friend has asked me to have a look at some problems he's having on his PC. I would like to be able to link his laptop to mine so I can run my virus checkers, etc, on his hard drive.Chris RowburyJS:You could link them using a crossover cable to connect the two Ethernet ports. However, I recommend copying whatever software you need to a "thumb drive" and plugging this into the USB port of your friend's laptop. I have a memory drive for exactly this purpose. I loaded it with SysInternals' Process Explorer (http://masl.to/?I19D25C3C), HiJackThis (www.spywareinfo.com/~merijn) and Silent Runners (www.silentrunners.org), among other things. These run from the USB port without installation. Windows XP also includes a Remote Assistance feature so you can control your friend's PC using Windows Messenger over the internet. Seehttp://masl.to/?W28712D0A.Backchat&#183;Last week I suggested SpaceMonger (http://masl.to/?I2BD31C3C) as a way of checking where your hard drive space went. Tony Meacock reminds me that I previously recommended SequoiaView (www.win.tue.nl/sequoiaview). This also uses treemaps, but as Tony says, "it has a more elegant display".&#183;I also suggested a couple of sites for digital camera reviews. Alex McMullen reckons Imaging Resource (www.imaging-resource.com) is "a much better source". I like it, too.
John Battelle says he was talking to fellow author John Heilemann when John noted that Google is, like Microsoft in the 1997, "coming close to a 'worm turning' moment -- a moment when the world realizes that the company is *too powerful* and its ambitions are *too great.* When such a genie arrives, it is very, very hard to put back in the bottle. The one all encompassing difference, of course, is that Google has real competition -- Microsoft in 1997 did not -- but regardless, the cultural vibe is striking in its similarity,"he writes on his blog.In seven short years, Google has gone from a geeky startup with one good idea into an agenda-shaping player responsible for navigating complex relationships with world governments, the personal privacy of millions, major trade organizations, and hundreds of thousands of businesses small and large. It's an extraordinary weight to bear, it seems to me. It's the kind of position that requires a balanced mixture of leadership, will, and diplomacy. There's very little room for the go-it-alone mentality which got the company to where it stands today. Can the company shift its culture and avoid the fate which ultimately hobbled Microsoft? That, more than anything else, will define the next chapter in the company's fascinating story.Comment: John Heilemann just wrote a column in New York Magazine (December 5) calledGooglephobia.
"Microsoft is developing a free online service that will let people list items for sale, events and other classifieds-type of information that can be shared either with groups of friends or anyone over the Internet," reportsCNet."The service, code-named Fremont, has been in internal testing at Microsoft for about a week and a half, Garry Wiseman, MSN product unit manager, told CNET News.com in an interview. He said he could not say when it would be available publicly. 'Basically, it will be a free listing service, with a bunch of twists to make it very unique, such as integration with social networks, in particular integration with MSN Messenger,' he said."A little like Google Base?"We started this before anyone knew about Google Base. Having seen what Google Base is doing, I don't think they were aiming for a classifieds service," Wiseman said. "They don't have a taxonomy of listings like we do. They see it as an open database."Users will be able to geo-tag listings so they can be shown on the 3D map formerly called Virtual Earth.A bit of local knowledge can help. As theSeattle Post-Intelligencerstory says: "The company refers to the upcoming Windows Live service by the code name 'Fremont' -- after the Seattle neighborhood with the popular Sunday market where community members buy and sell goods."
When was it that we first heard about "tweenies"? (And I don't mean the CBeebies show, but the preteen segment of the youth market.) Was it three, maybe four years ago? Well, look out: here come the "pre-tweenies".No doubt having read the research that says the average age at which children get their first mobile phone in the UK is eight, a company has now launched the Teddyfone: a mobile for children as young as four. What next - iPods for babies? This is surely the generation to put the nappy into Napster.Phone-wise, we have been here before. But the last time a firm targeted this age group, it withdrew its product after the Health Protection Agency advised that children under eight should not use mobiles because of possible health risks from radiation. The Teddyfone hopes to have got round this by designing a phone with reduced functions (no screen and just four numbers, to be preprogrammed by parents) and a low "specific absorption rate" of microwave energy. So that might just be a healthy glow on little Jemima's cheeks, and not because she's fried her brain downloading the latest ringtones.But should four-year-olds have their own phones anyway? There is the security argument, of course. As Louise Laing of the National Family and Parenting Institute concedes, "We know that parents give children phones because they like to keep track of them."But, you hope, four-year-olds are not so unsupervised that they can roam the park capturing their happy-slapping exploits on a mobe. And shouldn't parents be doing something to stop this relentless creep of capitalism into the nursery?"When they're young, we can control what they consume to a certain extent," says Angela Holland of Parentline Plus. "But then there is pester power. It is up to the individual parent to decide on the ground rules, and manage the potential conflict."Since the latest figures show that 1.5m kids under 10 already have a mobile, I think we can see what parents' preferred method of conflict management is: total capitulation.
And another good thing about cycling: no one I meet is ever stuck for something to say to me. Naturally, I always take the conversational bait - and then find that my ability to notice the glazed expression on the other person's face gets impaired once they've got me started on bikes.But what I hear all the time from people is that they would ride a bike but don't because they feel it's too dangerous; they're scared of cycling in traffic. I completely sympathise, but, of course, I disagree. I usually find myself about to say: "But look at me: I cycle all over town and I haven't had an accident in 15 years." I stop myself because: (a) it sounds unbearably smug; and (b), even I can see that, tempting fate-wise, it would be a very stupid remark.But experience does count for something. You follow certain rules: you try to make eye-contact with drivers; you avoid getting into the blind spot of anything big; you check over your shoulder before pulling out, and so on. It's obvious stuff, but it keeps you alive.In fact, far from feeling frightened, I love cycling in traffic. It's a superbly absorbing challenge of anticipation, judgment and skill. And it has a social dimension: traffic movement is rich in a non-verbal communication that enables constant, subtle accommodations between road-users. If you learn not to treat it as a combat sport, or a zero-sum game where your loss is my gain, then you discover that negotiating the rush hour can become a kind of improv choreography.At least, that is what I was thinking this morning before I got an email from my oldest cycling buddy - with the news that he'd been knocked off by a car pulling out, without looking, at a mini-roundabout. He dislocated a finger and had some stitches in his head, but was otherwise, thank God, all right.So now I'm not sure what the moral is. Statistically, cycling is safer per mile than walking (or driving). But I probably shouldn't be kidding anyone, myself included, that bicycling around town is like ballet on wheels.
The chances are that most people you know under the age of 35 have either got one or know someone who has. Yup, the PlayStation 2 is everywhere. Sonyannouncedtoday that they have shipped a record-breaking 100 million units of the console worldwide since its launch nearly six years ago. Even bearing in mind that "shipped" doesn't mean sold, it is still an impressive figure and highlights the sales chasm between Sony and its competitors, Microsoft (Xbox has sold around 23 million), Nintendo(GC, around 19 million) and Gizmondo(7, or 8 if you count the one given toJamiroquai).Interestingly the sales split shows Europe/PAL (37million) only 3 million sales behind US (40million) while Japan/Asia lags behind (22mill). How this will affect release dates for PS3 remains to be seen but, until Europe finally decides to officially speak English, PAL is likely to remain last. Finally the software - 6200 games have been released for PS2 alone, only half of which have been sports updates. Joking, of course, but it would be interesting to see the percentage of that list which are sequels. But this is churlish really - the PS2 has been a huge success, with a significant amount of leftfield games - Ico,Gitaroo Man- rubbing shoulders with the blockbusters. The media are fond of talking about a console "war" - there is no doubt who the current victors are.
A few observant Sony watchers have noticed that the company has sneakily released a new PSP firmware update for Japanese and US units. Among the new features are support for WMA files as well as limited RSS functionality. As theMemap.orgblog explains:"The new RSS Channel streams media items attached to an RSS feed, thus adding audio and video Podcast subscription support to the PSP and allowing you to subscribe to your favorite podcasts without having to attach your PSP to our computer. However, RSS Channel content only streams across the PSP's wireless connection, without downloading and saving the content to your PSP's memory card."
"Yahoo gathered a small group of bloggers, press and others at Sauce in San Francisco tonight to announce the launch of two new RSS products. They have integrated an RSS reader directly into Yahoo Mail Beta, and are expanding Alerts to include RSS feeds," reportsTechCrunch.Comment:This applies to the closed next-generation Yahoo Mail beta, not your standard webmail box.... You may be able to sign up for the beta:see here.
Over on the Gamesblog, Aleks has postedSex in gamesabout the nicely-namedMMOrgysite, "which features a dazzling array of articles that examine the role and role play of carnal desire in online games".Of course, "cybersex" has been around for a very long time -- I still remember being kissed inLap of the Gods, a MUD-like multiplayer text-based game, in the 1980s, though that was as far as it went. (MUDwas the original Multi User Dungeon, played on a DEC-10 mainframe at Essex University.) However, TinySex and FurrySex were far from unknown onFurryMUCK and other types of MUDwhere socialising was the primary aim of the game.ThisFurry fandompage gives some idea of what the scene was like. It includes a link toCreature Comforts, a Marie Claire article on furries, with some hysterically funny photos.
Gosh you can get a lot of rubbish online. And now, you can even getPostal, the self-proclaimed "most controversial game of all time", distributed where the feds can't get at it:the InterWeb. Postal's been banned in quite a few countries. I question whether this had to do with the content or the quality.Perhaps they simply couldn't get a distribution deal in the real world.ViaNext Generation
"The device, called the Mosquito, emits a high-frequency pulsing sound that can be heard by most people younger than 20 and almost no one older than 30. The sound is designed to so irritate young people that after several minutes, they cannot stand it and go away," reportsThe New York Times."So far, the Mosquito has been road-tested in only one place, at the entrance to the Spar convenience store in this town in South Wales. Like birds perched on telephone wires, surly teenagers used to plant themselves on the railings just outside the door, smoking, drinking, shouting rude words at customers and making regular disruptive forays inside."The results were almost instantaneous. It was as if someone had used anti-teenager spray around the entrance, the way you might spray your sofas to keep pets off. Where disaffected youths used to congregate, now there is no one."Comment: The article says the Mosquito was written up in The Grocer magazine and the inventor, Howard Stapleton, "appeared recently on Richard &amp; Judy, an Oprah-esque afternoon talk show." I just don't move in the right circles....
"The History Channel is turning to videogames to re-create key battle scenes for a new World War II documentary,"saysWired.com today. "'Brothers in Arms: The Untold Stories of the 502nd', a pair of one-hour documentaries debuting Dec. 18, will feature videogame graphics from Gearbox Software's Brothers in Arms videogame franchise."According to the programme's producer, the available stock footage of the D-Day landings - grainy, monochrome and extremely limited - has become over-familiar to viewers, lessening its impact. They wanted something more engaging, while retaining a sense of authenticity and emotional resonance. Hence, Brothers In Arms. The article continues:The documentaries for the first time will also attempt to portray real World War II veterans as they appeared in the war. Gearbox took photos of some of the World War II vets interviewed for the show, and re-created them in the game as they looked when they fought in Normandy as young men of 18 and 20 years of age.This all makes perfect sense - I certainly learned more about World War II through playing Battlefield 1942 than I ever did while studying for A-Level history (although, to be honest, games have yet to tell me as much about the social history of Britain between 1830 and 1850). Taking real-life experiences and illustrating them using a videogame engine seems to me a respectful and effective means of sharing first-hand experiences of war.The best way to educate, surely, is to provide information in a familiar medium. Increasingly, through playing online shooters (especially those where team-based tactics are explicitly encouraged), gamers are becoming aware of the unique camaraderie that exists between soldiers.The question is, if this 'mission' - complete with representations of real-life veterans - was made available in interactive form, would the ethics become more complicated? Would the balance shift too far toward entertainment and exploitation? Certainly, the US developerKuma Games, responsible for real-life battle sim Kuma\War, has attracted plenty of criticism for basing levels around the Iraq conflict.These issues are likely to crop up again and again over the coming years. As videogame graphics improve, and machinima movie-making techniques become more advanced, we're bound to see more documentaries using games in dramatic reconstructions. GTA in Crimewatch? Metal Gear Solid in Panorama? PES in Match of the Day? Could be. It is another symptom of game culture drip-feeding into mainstream media. The History Channel documentaries are also a good example of technologies combining because they justfit togethernot because someone thinks they can make money out of squeezing them into one gadget.
I would like to find my parents a computer that can handle the basics: broadband internet, email, word processing and a printer. They're aged 60+ with next to no computing experience, but are willing learners. I've considered &amp; rejected Macs because of compatibility with the systems used by the rest of the family, plus I'm not familiar with Macs and would find it easier to teach them how to use a PC.What should I look for in a basic PC package to meet my parents' needs? Are there any specifically designed or aimed at their situation, or any specialist retailers or manufacturers? Is there any point looking at second hand kit? And is there any specifically-designed software that could help my parents get going?All advice very much appreciated.Jake GibbonLots of people have had a go at the market for what we used to call "internet appliances," including Microsoft with WebTV and "companions" running Windows CE. The closest thing today is probably thePsion NetBook Pro. Since the operating system is in ROM, it doesn't require much in the way of maintenance or support, and since it's CE, it's not subject to the same kind of malware attacks as Windows XP. However, it makes an iBook look cheap ;-)On the other side of the argument, nothing has the huge range of software and hardware options you get with a standard PC, many of them things your parents might like. These include instant messaging, video conferencing and VoIP (MSN Messenger, Skype etc), photo handling, games (including card, board and word games) and the TV/DVD/PVR and other functions that are part of Windows Media Center.Companies such as Dell can supply a cheap software bundle with Microsoft Works (which includes Word), which covers most basic family software needs. You could download and pre-install other stuff, such as Firefox and Thunderbird, a firewall etc, and sign them up to an email service that does spam and virus filtering. Google's Gmail might be enough.I suggest that you set up Remote Assistance so that you can log in to the PC and maintain it from home. You could keep the Administrator account and give your parents user accounts, which can be adjusted via group policies. (I'm not sure how well this would work in practice.)If your parents are completely new to this sort of thing, I think you will need to spend a few hours training them not to accept IM downloads from strangers, respond to Nigerian diplomats/oil magnates trying to bank their millions, and "Your PC has a virus" messages designed to install adware. No matter how bulletproof the system (and let's face it, XP isn't), it doesn't necessarily defeat all attempts at "social engineering."You could also get help fromHairnet, "began life in 1997 as a computer and Internet training initiative for the over 50s. It was started by two young women, Caroline Lambie and Emma Solomon. They realised that people of their parents' generation usually needed a special approach to learning new technology." Hairnet featured in an Online cover story I wrote on "silver surfers," publishedhereon June 10, 1999.
360 launch spoiler? Nintendo's announcement that they will be unveiling full details of their new console - codenamed Revolution, obviously - on May 9th next year is a nifty way to deflect attention from Microsoft's new toy. It also means the whooping and hollering - seriously, you should hear the quasi-religious fervour that Nintendo often inspires in their US press conferences - is likely to be louder than ever. The Rev is a huge deal for Nintendo, they can't afford another Gamecube. Yes, veteran gamers and the very young will probably love any new console that allows them to play the latest Zelda, Metroid or Pokemon, but getting the mass market interested is key. Of course, the new controller should help by knocking down those barriers to entry. The DS has shown that the creative spark is still there - let's hope the Revolution continues the trend.
It's been an exciting* day in the burgeoning world of 3D mobile gaming. Several publishers have unveiled new titles, taking advantage of the more powerful handsets hitting the market right now. First up,Synergenixis working on a 3D Java version of notorious PC racer, Carmageddon (pictured above left), which people used to think was the zenith of videogame evil until GTA came along. "The new 3D version of the game features the same action, bonuses, and carnage found in the original PC title, totally redesigned for the latest 3D-enabled Symbian handset," says the press release.The screens look a bit rough, but this is Java not Xbox 360, so we can't be too harsh.Next,Glu Mobileofficially announced Alpha Wing 2 (above right) an old skool scrolling shooter and sequel to the multi-million selling original. This one's a bit of a cheat as it's essentially a 2D game with 3D backgrounds, but I'll let them off as it looks great and the press release makes sure to namecheck all the right titles:"In the game, players take on the role of one of three brave intergalactic heroes, with one mission: to battle the advancing enemy and defeat the alien menace. Each of the three characters in the game has unique weapons, which can be upgraded by collecting the power-ups found throughout the nine levels of the game. And in a nod to classic shoot 'em up games like Ikaruga and Radiant Silvergun, Alpha Wing 2 also features a trio of imposing end of level bosses."It will also be possible to upload your highscores to an online table. The game is out next month.And there's more...*actual news story may not match descriptionA company I've never heard of namedDS Effects(sounds like a dodgy interior decoration firm operating out of a lock-up in Peckham) has revealed two new 3D Java projects. Xmas Gifts 3D is a platformer where you help Santa Claus - primarily, it seems, by, "jumping from one platform to the next, avoiding obstacles and collecting gifts." The other game, entitled Cosmic Girl 3D (pictured above left), is a futuristic shooter that looks exactly like Space Harrier. Hasn't I-play already done this with Major Carnage?Finally,THQ Wirelesswill be publishing two new 3D titles created by disturbingly-named Hamburg developer,Fishlabs. Cloud Commander (above right) is a pretty impressive air combat game with intuitive controls and, apparently, a two-player head-to-head mode. Speed Spirit is the tricky-to-say 3D arcade driving game that seems to have borrowed some ideas from Ridge Racer. Again, you'll be able to upload your best lap times to an online server and even download other peoples ghost cars to race against.So, asking Santa for that high-end Java-enabled handset doesn't seem like such a daft idea now, does it?Does it?
In the long-running aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, it seems that the city of New Orleans is looking to Wi-Fi as one way to help rebuild its shattered. According to theWashington Post:Hurricane-ravaged New Orleans will deploy the nation's first municipally owned wireless Internet system that will be free for all users, part of an effort to jump-start recovery by making living and doing business in the city as attractive as possible.The system, which Mayor C. Ray Nagin is scheduled to announce at a news conference today, also will be used by law enforcement and for an array of city government functions, such as speeding approval of building permits.The article goes on to talk about how the equipment - which was mainly donated - will operate under the auspices of the city's administrators. Of course, it's far from being the first municipal Wi-Fi network: the most notable example in America isPhiladelphia, and there are plenty of instances inBritainand elsewhere, too. However, it is entirely free - which I think is a first in the US (though there are plenty of othersin the pipeline).But even though it's a nice story, the real question has to be whether it's worth it. What's the real objective here? Is it, as Mayor Nagin says, to help speed up the rebuilding process? That's a laudable aim, of course, but surely the value of it is somewhat debatable. So is it, then, to provide those already inside New Orleans with free communication? Is it to try and begin creating a new image of New Orleans as a technology centre? Is it to try and offer alternatives to the communications systems which failed during the hurricane and floods?I don't know the answer to that, and I hope the infrastructure is strong enough to cope. I'm sure that municipal Wi-Fi is a great idea, provided it's good enough and resilient enough. Whatever the case, I'm sure there are plenty of citizens who are happy to get their net access for free... I just hope that time and money isn't being taken away from more necessary rebuilding.
Reading all the commentshere, it's clear that a lot of you are playing Mario Kart online. Gamesblog Cup you say? Not yet, but if you fancy playing against fellow readers rather than over-caffeinated kiddies or people who quit out when last, then stick your friend code in the comments - I'll dig mine out tonight. If we get enough people I'll let Nintendo know and they may throw us a trinket or something to give away.
This morning Guardian Unlimited launchedNewsPoint, a branded RSS newsreader with automatic subscriptions to a selection of feeds from across our website.I've scribed the latest in a series of pieces explainingthe concept of RSS readersover at our sister Newsblog.I've not tested it extensively (it's Windows-only and right now I'm on Mac) but if you're testing out different RSS reading options, or haven't dipped into the webfeed waters before, then it could be worth a punt.
Kotakuhas pointed gamesblog to the sex-in/through-virtual-worlds blogMMOrgywhich features a dazzling array of articles that examine the role and role play of carnal desire in online games. As we'vesaidbefore, the sexual content that emerges from human-to-human interaction (albeit aided by virtuality) seems inherently sexier than clunky anamatronics usually (but not exclusively) thrown into a computer game to do very little to assisst the plot.From MMOrgy's welcome note:Why do we have sex in games? Simple, it's part of our nature, and MMOs are all about human nature and creativity. We bring to the world the things we are familiar with, our hopes and dreams, the things we wish were possible but are sadly not because of money, time, or the laws of physics. Combine this with the fact that every month some new feature comes out that makes these worlds a little more immersive, a little more real, and soon youve created a playground where people can lose themselves, experiment, and learn new things all in front of their computer screen. MMOs allow us to act out events without fear of being caught publically or not being able to stop it if we don't like it. The power switch to your PC or console is one of the safest "safe words" you can have.There's all sorts of fascinating reading over there and I'm looking forward to following the many directions this topic can take. Hey, I'm learning already: In MMOrgy's recent post "Better sex through MMOG or MMOVSG", they introduce a new acronym for an already acronym-laden genre, the "Massively Multiplayer Online Virtual Sex Game". I can assume that at the most tame the titles which fall into this genre are multiplayer versions ofSingles, and at their least tame they are whole worlds filled with vice and depravity witnessed in some of the more interesting corners ofSecond Lifeand other existing games. The post superbly weighs up the pros and cons of this new MMO-variation and nods to forthcoming MMOVSGs likeRapture Onlineby Black Love Interactive,Spend The Nightby Republik Games,Heavenly Bodiesby Nest Egg Studios,3Feelby CM-NET. For an existing MMOVSG, interested parties should check out Sociolotron, which gamesblog covered in itsvery first post.
You've seen things: But is Blade Runner one of the greatest geek movies?"We had such a good time delving into thebest geek novels- remember, top of the pile came Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy - that I thought it would also be interesting to find out what Technology Guardian readers thought the best geek movies were," wrote Bobbie.Read on and comment below, not here.
"For years, the term 'beta' referred to a relatively short period of testing by a select group of outsiders. These days, beta editions are not only released to the public, but also stay in that mode for months, or even years. Google News, Google's news aggregator, has been in beta for three years. Microsoft's antispyware application has been in beta for nearly a year," saysThe Wall Street Journalin one of "today's free features".Betas also have become a marketing device in a fiercely competitive industry, allowing software and Internet firms to release new products or services sooner and cultivate early buzz. Betas, which once had been quietly distributed, are trumpeted in press releases and at news conferences."I deplore it as a consumer; I admire it as a marketing professional," said Peter Sealey, a marketing professor at the University of California at Berkeley and former chief marketing officer at Coca-Cola Co. "I can't come up with anything else in the entire marketing world where marketers knowingly introduce a flawed or inadequate product [and] it helps grow your user base."Comment:If they are not about finding and fixing bugs, they should really be called "preview editions" or "marketing betas" or something. That would be honest.
"SOME TIME IN THE 1960s I was walking along Orange Street, which is behind the National Gallery, to visit Pickering &amp; Chatto, the antiquarian booksellers. The proprietor was Dudley Massey, celebrated as one of the best bookmen of his generation," etc etc. Not a typical high-tech opening but this isWilliam Rees-Mogg in The Times. The point: some publishers want to "force Google to charge for viewing a copyright book, and to share the profit".
A couple of Xbox 360 news stories from yesterday... First, German siteSpiegel Online(later followed byThe InquirerandGamesindustry.biz) has claimed that 300,000 Xbox 360 consoles have now been distributed to shops throughout Europe - a figure apparently confirmed by Microsoft exec, Chris Lewis.Lewis also intimated that 360 was expected to sell out on the December 2 launch day. We'll see. Over in the US, where units do seem to be hard to come by, a healthy Ebay market has sprung up, with premium packagesshifting at over $800(double the official retail price).Obviously, none of those paying over the odds for their machines have been put off byreportsof malfunctioning hardware. Don't fret, though - Gamesindustry.biz hasreportedon theories whizzing around the community as to the causes of these crashes (overheating PSUs apparently - although Microsoft denied this) and how to sort them out. It's fun to see how, these days, apparent hardware problems are discovered, discussed and 'resolved' online with almost no official input from the console manufacturer.User forums have long been the most reliable form of Tech Support for Macs and PCs. As games consoles become more powerful and complex, it stands to reason that they will follow suit.
Ricky Gervais, the comedian behind The Office and Extras, is returning to radio with a weekly show that will only be available as a podcast through the Guardian Unlimited website.Gervais and his writing partner, Stephen Merchant, will be reunited with Karl Pilkington, who produced their show on Xfm.Gervais said: "I want to do a radio show where I can say what I want, when I want, for as long as I want and that's free for anybody who can be bothered to listen anywhere in the world." The first of their 12 weekly shows will be available on the GU website next Monday.
"Yes, it's true! Last year the Missus gave Santa a couple of Big Five consultants for Christmas and they have assured me that I can dramatically shrink the cycle times associated with my core business processes through the strategic use of Internet technology. Best of all, they promise, I can actually increase my customer satisfaction rating which suffered last year through my archaic forecasting systems' inability to tell me that the elves should have been working overtime on the Xbox 360 production lines," writesSantaon hisOfficial Web site.Today's press release says: "An anonymous private family in Northern California is proud to share with children of all ages around the world http://www.saintnick.org to promote spreading the spirit of Christmas and community on the Internet. "This non-commercial holiday Web site, http://www.saintnick.org, appeals to children of all ages and their parents seeking online communication with Santa Claus and who are interested in Christmas-themed infotainment. Visitors to the St. Nick Web site can send their Christmas lists to Santa and receive a personalized e-mail back from the "big guy," play holiday trivia games, listen to their favorite Christmas tunes, share their favorite traditions and recipes, learn about the magic of Santa's one-night trip around the world and more."It doesn't actually say it's new, of course. But it does bear a striking resemblance to a press release fromBusiness Wire, Dec 7, 1998:"Fabrik Communications, Inc., an Internet services company based in San Francisco, is proud to share with children of all ages around the world http://www.saintnick.org. This non-commercial holiday Web site, http://www.saintnick.org, appeals to children of all ages and their parents seeking online communication with Santa Claus and who are interested in Christmas-themed infotainment. Visitors to the St. Nick Web site can receive e-mails and newsletters from Santa Claus, play holiday trivia games, vote for their favorite Christmas tunes, share their favorite traditions and recipes, learn about the magic of Santa's one-night trip around the world and more."
"BT is to take on leading mobile phone operators such as Vodafone and O2 by enabling customers to make free calls on their mobiles," reckonsThe Business Online."BT is expected to announce details of the service before Christmas and it will available early next year. The calls will be free, but there will be a flat charge to use the network."The basic idea is that smartphones with built-in Wi-Fi will be able to make voice calls from BT's Openzone hotspots plus, says the article, "a patchwork of new WiMax networks". But BT won't be the first to do this:This week, telecoms company OpenAir launches Avantimobile, a Skype-style service that allows smartphone users to make free calls from Wi-Fi hotspots in pubs, cafes and hotels. Samsung and Motorola are also to launch WiMax mobiles in the new year that will enable users to make free internet mobile calls when walking down the street in the way they now use the mobile operators' high-tariff mobile networks.
With the Xbox 360 basically out of the door, there must be a team inside Microsoft that is already working on the next machines. That will be mainly down to Microsoft chip designers such as Larry Yang, Jeff Andrews and Nick Baker, who used to work for futuristic console company3DO. (I believe Larry Yang also worked at Sun on the Sparc.)There could well be an Xbox 360 II a couple of years down the line. This will be cost-reduced using fewer chips -- all console manufacturers do this. If it gets the volume, Microsoft -- which owns the rights to the CPU and graphics chips -- might also look for lower-cost fabs than its current suppliers, IBM and Chartered Semiconductor. It will also have the option to chuck in an HD-DVD or Blu-ray drive, since this wouldn't change the games. However, since no one has any movies on Blu-ray, and hardly anyone has an HDTV, this isn't exactly urgent.After that there will be the Xbox 370 or 720 or whatever, which will presumably use a compatible processor and have better graphics, but what else do gamers need? The "law of diminishing returns" is already setting in....But you can be sure the Xbox 360 isn't the end of the line. If it tanks,"We'll play again,"Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates told Reuters in a telephone interview just before of the Xbox 360 launch.Remember, Microsoft has $40 billion in the bank, plus $1 billion a month in profits, and nothing to spend it on. In December, Microsoft gave $30 billion back to shareholders in a one-off distribution of wealth, and it's disposing of another $30 billion buying back its own stock. Under the circumstances, it can easily afford to invest (or,if you prefer, lose) the odd billion a year in winning the console market. Over the next 10 to 20 years, the potential pay-off could be huge.If the Xbox was just a games machine, Microsoft might not care. If it's a vehicle for music, movies, online gaming and online shopping -- and a way of extending Microsoft's proprietary media formats into the living room -- then you can bet it does.
Joystiqhas a great run-down of what it considers to be the hidden gems of this generation of computer games consoles. Among those on the list is perennial faveIco, the critically acclaimedBeyond Good and Eviland the surprisingFahrenheit(oddly titled Indigo Prophesy in the North American version). It's also great to see the indie-developedAlien Hominidincluded too. It would be so healthy for the games industry to support its non-blockbuster small studios for innovative challengers to the dominant sequel model.There are many superb titles that languished behind the headlines of other, often better-funded projects that weren't mentioned, and as the post's author Ross Miller explains, their list isn't complete. Anyone have any other suggestions for excellent yet under-celebrated games which lit up our current generation of consoles?
So Mario Kart DS then? How has it been for you? I've spent a few hours this weekend playing online, usually against guys called "Corey", and am thoroughly enjoying it. This is certainly the best version of Mario Kart since the 90s. I'm also still persevering with Pro Evo 5 on the PSP. The load times and sticky controls are frustrating, but it still has enough essence of PES to make it worthwhile.So, golden age of handheld gaming then? I think so, but suggest the marketeers go for a new angle in their next campaign. They should forget cute puppies and arthouse mood pieces and instead focus on the dull, but more useful, fact that playing a handheld system is good for relationships - arguments over who gets the telly are now redundant. Yes, it's all about gaming on the go and the like, but I reckon the majority of handheld gaming is done on the sofa while the other half watches TV. Or is that just me?
"The figures for 'on-demand' media consumption are headline-grabbing," says a rather self-referential introduction to a story in today'sFinancial Times. According to the piece, the success of Apple's video downloads combined with viewing figures for VoD in America show that it's turning the corner.At Time Warner Cable, the average household now watches 30 such programmes a month... "Video on demand is starting to approach the magic number of once per day per household," said Craig Moffett, analyst at Sanford Bernstein.On-demand media is certainly on the up, but are we really hearing the whole story? If high-consumption America can only offer an average of less than one on-demand TV show per day, then are we really talking about a fundemental shift? After all, I think it's probably fair to imagine that those people using PVRs to timeshift their viewing are actually relatively heavy consumers of the technology: this drives the average down among those who aren't dedicated users.Certainly the figures are growing overall, but looking at the numbers a little more closely opens up new thoughts too: if, as the article suggests, Comcast is getting around 120m on-demand views per month, then it doesn't fare too well against its total number of subscribers (around 21m). And now TiVo - always lauded as the pioneer in this arena - is going to include searching for advertising, according to this morning'sWall Street Journal. Maybe it's just me, but that doesn't seem to be the behaviour of a soaraway success story.Make no bones about it: on-demand changes the way we approach media and advertising. It offers new avenues for viewers, producers and promises a sea-change in the way we think about broadcasting. But if its benefits are limited to a small base, then it's quite likely that the revolution will not be televised.
When Microsoft announced that it was going to near-simultaneous launch of Xbox 360 around the world, many gamers were pleased: particularly those in Europe, who have become used to being treated like poor relations in a market that often turns its focus to Japan and America.But just days before the console hits Britain, Germany and the rest of the continent, things suddenly look a little uncomfortable.According to Reuters, there will only be 300,000 consoles available on Friday to European customers.Industry analysts' estimates of 300,000 Xbox 360s available at launch "were not far removed from reality", said Chris Lewis, the Microsoft executive responsible for the Xbox in Europe, in German weekly financial newspaper Euro am Sonntag.Xbox 360s sold out in many U.S. stores after the launch there on Nov. 22 and are still in short supply, with the console selling at a premium to its $400 retail price on Internet auction sites.Lewis said it was possible the console would sell out at its European launch too.At first glance three hundred thousand might not seem too bad, but by my reckoning it could be a problem - especially if there aren't more machines coming quickly along the supply chain. The original Xbox sold 52,000 units in its first weekend in Britain alone, and recent launches such as Nintendo's DS and the PSP have outstripped that by a long way.Were they over-ambitious? Probably. And to a large degree, there's a lot to applaud about the attempt to release a machine globally inside a couple of weeks. But perception is perception, and if theglitches with machinesramp up and there are lots of supply chain problems, then could prove more than a little awkward for Redmond.
The Washington Posthas published an article that says: "Now there are new products that are trying to take the hassle out of backups by delivering high-end business solutions at consumer-friendly prices." It discusses he use of RAID (Redundant Arrays of Inexpensive Disks), which enables data to be recovered if a hard drive fails, and also NTI's Shadow 2 software:Shadow 2 ($30) from NewTech Infosystems Inc or NTI (http://www.ntius.com/) can also copy selected directories of your PC as soon as they are created, functionally mirroring them onto an external device such as a hard drive, USB key or even an MP3 player.It's always worth promoting the idea of taking back-ups, but I should point out that RAID is not a back-up solution. RAID arrays were invented so that cheap PC-style hard drives could be used instead of the monsters that used to be standard with minis and mainframes. If you have lots of PC-style hard drives (tens or hundreds) then you will suffer regular HD failures, so you need a system that writes data across multiple drives with redundancy that allows the data on the failed drive to be reconstructed. This is a great advantage if you want to offer a continuous resilient service. But if you don't have tens or hundreds of PC hard drives then it's not essential.I'm not saying that you cannot use an external RAID array or RAID server as a back-up. Of course you can. But it's the fact that it's an external copy of your data that makes it a back-up, not the fact that it uses RAID. If you are a home user, then a single external drive (eg 250GB) is a cheaper option, but I'd still recommended backing up to optical disc as well (CD-R etc).. If you are a business user, then you need off-site back-up. A RAID array that sits in the office is not a back-up, it's just another bit of kit that can either be stolen or consumed in flames, or whatever.As for Shadow 2, I haven't tried it, but I've often recommendedSecond Copy, which has been doing the same thing for many years. (It runs on Windows 9x as well.) The appeal of Shadow 2 is that it's available on a limited time offer for 99c.
