"A host of new business and technology-related magazines are hitting the market, thumbing their nose at conventional wisdom that the Internet will stifle print publications. The latest to launch is Boston-based Forrester Magazine, arriving in February. It's aimed primarily at high-ranking executives, with a "disproportionate amount" of its 40,000 readers expected to be in Northern California. Forrester joins four other new magazines -- a revived Red Herring, Tech Confidential, AlwaysOn and a refurbished MIT Technology Review," reportsMercury News.The AlwaysOn magazine will be derived from the Web site started by Tony Parkins, who also founded Red Herring magazine.Over the past six months, Perkins says, he realized that even a good online column was read by about 10,000 people -- nowhere close to the 250,000 overall readers AlwaysOn gets each month.That's when he conceived of a print version, as a service for the 240,000 who hadn't read the best postings. It will print quarterly beginning in March; Perkins aims for bimonthly next year.The Silicon Valley media veteran is trying to bring the blog-like character of the Web site to the magazine, which he calls a "blogozine."
A 27-year-old man from Elgin in Morayshire will appear in court on Monday after a computer hacking inquiry by British and US authorities.The man was detained after raids yesterday morning at two addresses in the north-east of Scotland. The investigation involved alleged "denial of service" attacks, which attempt to disrupt a computer network by flooding it with useless traffic.Police said the arrest had come amid an investigation into an alleged attempt to extort a "significant quantity of money" from companies around the world. Computer equipment was removed from the scene of yesterday's raids.Agents from the US secret service are to question the 27-year-old as part of the joint inquiry, known as Operation Caspar, along with their Scottish counterparts.The probe was spearheaded in Scotland by the hi-tech crime unit of the Scottish Drug Enforcement Agency, which deals with serious crime.Detective Chief Superinten dent Stephen Ward, of the SDEA, said: "Operation Casper has involved the SDEA working closely with the US secret service and is an excellent example of how law enforcement agencies, working together, can impact on internet-related crime.The man is expected to appear at Elgin sheriff court on Monday.
Lemony Snicket's A Series Of Unfortunate EventsGamecube, PC, PS2, XBoxFinding entertainment that is both suitable for children and still has some sort of character isn't an easy task, but Lemony Snicket's A Series Of Unfortunate Events retains enough dark humour and erudite references to raise it well above the festering squalor of last year's Cat In The Hat. Clearly aimed at children, the game takes advantage of the Baudelaire orphans' unique skills: Violet is an inventor, Klaus takes care of the athletics and violence, while baby Sunny crawls through small spaces and uses his sharp teeth to chew through obstacles. Violet's inventions hold the key to most tasks, which tend to be straightforward yet mildly compelling.Mortal Kombat DeceptionPS2, XBoxBefore the Grand Theft Auto series appeared, when reactionary press elements wanted to highlight the way makers of videogames destroy families and actually set fire to the elderly, they had to make do with examples like poorly-executed pedestrian-killing racer Carmageddon and dear old Mortal Kombat. For the uninitiated, other than spelling all "C" words with a "K", its other feature was  the ludicrous lashings of gore that accompanied each bout. This outing adds considerable extra sophistication and an unexpected cornucopia of play modes from Chess Kombat to online drubbings. Although not the equal of Soul Calibur II, this is still a good, honest beat-'em-up that sits very comfortably with its undoubtedly silly gimmicks.Prince Of Persia: Warrior WithinGamecube, PC, PS2, XBoxPrincess Of Persia: Sands Of Time was unusual in many ways. Its levels looked like pages from an Arabian Nights story, it had an emphasis on subtle puzzle solving rather than simply killing things, and moving the Prince around was fun all by itself. While its sequel retains the Prince's fluid movement, the rest appears to have been made-over by a focus    group of American teenagers: from the hero's factory-fitted "attitude" to the brooding, blood-splattered scenery, Prince Of Persia is now all steel bikinis and fighting. The difficulty level has also been ratcheted up, and while it's not as harrowing as Ninja Gaiden, Warrior Within is far from the peaceful splendour of its predecessor.
Should he ever be able to pull himself away from the bar, Shameless inebriate Frank Gallagher might find a few sites online he'd enjoy. Tramp Juice (trampjuice.tk), for example, which provides reviews of any lager bearing the key additional word "super", or Top Drunks (beertarot.com/drunks.htm), that is like Top Trumps but for hardened drinkers.We also likemoderndrunkardmagazine.com, especially the Wino Wisdom section and its pearls of nonsense ("Either I've fallen down or you guys have turned into giants "), whilebefuddle.co.ukis awash with pictures of celebrity degradation - always a joy.Occasional London disco happeningclubbeer.co.ukplays music that only sounds good when drunk and includes instructions for constructing a DIY pub.
Andrew Brown misses important advantages to Microsoft of pirating (War on copyright communists, January 11). The availability of pirated Microsoft software in poorer countries, often at near zero cost, undercuts local producers of original software, wiping out potential Microsoft competition. In the famous "Garbushka" software market in Moscow, for example, western software is for sale at &#163;2 a CD. This is the intellectual property version of US and EU food dumping in the third world and is in its own way just as destructive. In many countries the first beneficiary of enforce copyright law will be local innovative companies.Mark SugrueMachine vision research group, Royal Holloway, University of London
Funny piece over at Engadget, dated Wednesday, where Creative's boss says the iPod Shuffle has "our first generation MuVo One product feature, without display, just have a (shuffle feature). We had that — that's a four-year-old product. So I think the whole industry will just laugh at it, because the flash people — it's worse than the cheapest Chinese player. Even the cheap, cheap Chinese brand today has display and has FM."But as Engadget (former Guardian Online contributor Peter Rojas) points out, it will still sell. Gohereto read the whole thing. The original source isCynics.info.
As an addendum to thepostearlier in the week finding issue with press invites for games journalists of the fairer sex, I have received an apologetic email from the company responsible for the mailing. Thank you Faye at Ubisoft.As I said in my response to her email, the post was an observation with the intention of raising a few eyebrows of awareness that not all computer games journalists are male and respond positively to that kind of advertising.To confound the controversy even further (and to definitely place my name on any blacklists), did I mention that many of the games PRs are women?
[Off Topic]"Filming of the new Doctor Who series has been hit by a shortage of midget actors. Bosses wanted them to play tiny blue aliens - but most have been snapped up for the new Charlie and the Chocolate Factory movie and to play Gringotts Bank staff in the new Harry Potter film," reports The Mirror.Dr Who executive producer Russell T Davies said: "It's very difficult to employ persons of restricted growth when, as our producer Phil Collinson says, 'Bloody Gringotts and the Chocolate Factory are filming at the same time'."
QXL is facing a hostile takeover after the Dutch company Florissant today announced that it would press ahead with a bid for the fallen dotcom star.Florissant yesterday offered £13.7m for QXL, the internet auction site that once aspired to be Europe's answer to eBay. However, the site - which had been worth as much as £2.5bn at the height of the dotcom boom - spurned the 800p a share offer as too low. The Dutch firm today responded with plans to take the bid directly to shareholders.Kenn Robson, a Florissant director and one of the company's founders, said: "We firmly believe that our 800p per share cash offer ... represents full and fair value for QXL shareholders. Florissant has therefore decided to put the offer to shareholders, without a recommendation from the independent directors."QXL yesterday withdrew its backing for a 700p a share bid from Tiger Acquisition - a group led by the QXL chief executive, Mark Zaleski, and the company's finance director, Robert Dighero - after advice from broker Evolution Securities.The company said it would focus on recovery in Poland, where it is fighting a legal battle with management accused of diverting revenue. Founded in 1997 by Tim Jackson, then the internet correspondent for the Financial Times, it has never made a profit.QXL was valued at around £220m when it floated at the end of 1999 on the stock market as the internet boom took off. In 2000, it bought Ricardo, a German rival, for more than £600m.It still has operations in France, Italy, the Netherlands and Belgium, although there is a dispute over the ownership of its Polish subsidiary. The only profitable parts of the business are Scandinavia and Switzerland, where the company has a market-leading position. Elsewhere, eBay dominates the field.
"FIFA is to consider the introduction of micro-chipped footballs after a high-profile incident during a Premiership game between Manchester United and Tottenham," reportsThe Register. [The ball crossed the line but the goal was not given.]"German sport goods company Adidas has already developed a micro-chipped ball and is to make a presentation to the International Football Association Board in Cardiff on Feb 26. If accepted, the ball could already be used in the Carling Cup final at Cardiff's Millennium Stadium the following day."Update:In a comment, below, Mavan points out that a much better version of this story was in The Guardian onJanuary 5, and says: "it might be worth experimenting with reading the paper you work for." Ouch.Usually I do, Mavan, but I was at CES in Las Vegas at the time....My other mistake was thinking The Register might be up to date with the news ;-)
"Google Inc. remains the search leader, but its fierce competitors Microsoft Corp. and Yahoo Inc. are narrowing the gap through improvements in customer loyalty and perception in the quality of search results, a research firm said Thursday," reportsTechWeb News."In a study of 2000 web users, Keynote Systems Inc. found significant improvements in consumers' experience with the search engines on Microsoft's and Yahoo's web portals, while the rankings of Google's site remained statistically flat. The San Mateo, Calif., company compared its finding with a similar study it conducted in June of last year."
"Foxconn Electronics (the registered trade name of Hon Hai Precision Industry) is the contract manufacturer for Apple's newly launched Mac mini computers, while Asustek Computer is making the iPod shuffle for the vendor, according to sources close to the deals. The Chinese-language Commercial Times reported yesterday that Asustek had secured the orders for both the items," reportsDigiTimes."Foxconn is expected to ship at least 100,000 Mac mini computers per month to Apple, the sources noted."In addition, Asustek will also start shippingiBook G5 notebooksto Apple in the second quarter of this year. Shipments of the current iBook notebooks totaled about 110,000-120,000 units a month in the fourth quarter last year, the sources noted." [my emphasis]
Andspeakingof companies started byTrip Hawkins, Electronic Arts, behemoth of the games publishing industry and master of pretty much all it oversees, is one of the companies TV bad guy Rupert Murdoch is considering purchasing, according togamesindustry.biz. Yes the TV mogul, on whom Bond baddie Elliot Carver inTomorrow Never Dieswas loosely based, has shown a keen interest in getting on the videogames bandwagon. If this doesn't indicate a real move towards the "mainstream", I don't know what does.What happens when ultra-conservative News Corp. gets in on the interactive act? Perhaps this signals a change in headlines speaking out against digital entertainment.
William Gonda, a ruddy-faced 56-year-old physician from San Francisco, pulled his rucksack off his back and excitedly delved inside to show off his latest purchase. Ripping open the packaging, he pulled out a solar-powered battery for his iPod, a snip at $99 (&#163;53). "This is like Christmas for me," he said, looking around.Like thousands of others, Gonda had made the annual pilgrimage to Macworld, a Mecca for the Apple faithful with hundreds of stands packing a convention centre. Gonda has been a fan since 1984, when the first Macintosh went on sale.Another visitor, Dave Fultz, 67, from Fresno, wore a vintage black T-shirt with the old stripy-coloured Apple logo like a badge of pride. His first Macintosh cost $2,200, he recalled, more than his latest Apple G4, which set him back just $1,700.Apple is the kind of company that has long invited feverish devotion. At this year's Macworld though, there was a different kind of buzz. With the extraordinary success of the iPod digital music player, Apple is attracting a new generation. The cultural impact of the device has been incalculable. The company appears to have regained its creative and financial momentum and has an almost tangible aura of confidence. "There is a real energy here this year," Gonda said.During Tuesday's keynote speech by Steve Jobs, Apple's co-founder and chief executive, Sony's president, Kunitake Ando, was invited on stage to talk about the two companies collaboration in high-definition video. Bounding on to the stage, he told the 4,000-strong crowd: "It's been exciting to see the real Steve Jobs, making a presentation."Jobs, 49, the co-founder of Apple and running the business again since 1997 after a hiatus of more than a decade, has built a rock star-like reputation in Silicon Valley. His resuscitation of Apple in recent years, plus his chairmanship of Pixar, the successful movie studio behind Finding Nemo and The Incredibles, has only cemented his reputation. A long queue of fans waited to hear him speak, as well as several hundred from the media.Fan websites speculated what he might be preparing to unveil at the show. The secretive Apple hit back with lawsuits when the guessing of devotees got too close.With his close-cropped hair, trademark black turtleneck with sleeves pushed halfway up his forearms, faded jeans, grey trainers and round glasses, Jobs works the crowd like the successful salesman he is. To the audience's eye, at least, he appears to carry no trace of the pancreatic cancer that put him in hospital last year.Revivalist meetingThe address takes on the atmosphere of a revivalist meeting, Jobs energetically waving his arms and repeatedly asking: "isn't that great?" or variations including, "isn't that incredible?", "isn't that cool?" and "isn't that awesome?" The crowd responds on cue with whoops, cheers and sharp intakes of breath.They had plenty to gasp about. Emboldened by the iPod's success, Apple announced an apparent U-turn in strategy, entering the mass market with the Mac mini, a stripped-down entry-level computer, and the iPod Shuffle, a $99 version of the best-selling digital music player.The Mac mini, dubbed the "headless Mac", is a miniature hard drive, selling for $499, that comes without monitor, keyboard or mouse. The 5cm-thick unit can be hooked up to any monitor and keyboard and has been launched to answer critics who suggest Apple's hardware has always been priced too high."I wish I had a nickel for every time people have suggested that we do this," Jobs said. "We want to price this Mac so that people who are thinking of switching will have no excuse."The branding of the Mac mini, aping the iPod mini, led Steve Milunovich, a media analyst at Merrill Lynch, to note that at Apple these days, the "iPod is the tail wagging the dog". It seems likely that Apple's experience with the iPod forced it to reconsider its attitude to the mass market. It has previously defended its paltry share of the computer business by comparing itself to BMW in the car industry: appealing to a niche market that is prepared to pay more for superior design.In the latest quarter Apple sold a staggering 4.6m iPods, a 500% increase on the same period a year earlier. The company has now sold 10m and it accounts for 35% of group revenues. The latest device, the iPod Shuffle, is smaller than a pack of bubblegum and can hold 120 songs.Jobs co-founded Apple in 1976 with Steve Wozniak in the garage of his adoptive parents' home in Los Altos, California. According to the book Apple Confidential, by Owen Linzmayer, Wozniak was the engineering smarts and Jobs the ambitious expert in marketing and design. When he was still at school and needed parts for a class project, he found the number of Bill Hewlett, of Hewlett-Packard, and called him at home.The hippyish, bearded pair aimed to produce a commercial personal computer and hit the big time with the Apple II in 1977. The company went public in 1980, creating 40 new millionaires.A year later IBM entered the market with software from Microsoft. By 1983, IBM had 26% of the market, compared to Apple's 21%. Apple, which had drastically underestimated the threat, foundered.Apple staked everything on the launch of the Macintosh in 1984. The Mac made a huge splash but sales failed to really take off despite the widespread industry belief that its operating system was better than Microsoft's. The company's refusal to license its software was seen as a critical error, allowing Microsoft to establish its operating systems as the standard platform on which the industry is built."The computer was never the problem - the company's strategy was," Wozniak said in Apple Confidential. "Apple saw itself as a hardware company; in order to protect our hardware, we didn't license our operating system. We had the most beautiful operating system but to get it you had to buy our hardware at twice the price. That was a mistake."Today more than 90% of the world's PCs are Windows machines. Apple's share is down to less than 3% of computer users.Wozniak drifted away from the company in 1985; Jobs quit the same year after losing a boardroom battle with the then-chief executive, John Sculley.Apple sales did keep growing and revenues peaked at $11bn in 1995, when it sold 4.5m units. But sales plunged in subsequent years, eventually falling below $6bn. The brand lost its cachet and, in desperation, the company began licensing the Mac system to some smaller manufacturers. Apple came close to running out of cash. Losses in 1996 and 1997 reached a combined $1.8bn. "Apple was in a death spiral," Linzmayer wrote.But Gilbert Amelio, who became chief executive in February 1996, made a pivotal decision by acquiring Jobs's spin-off company, NeXT, later that year, bringing the founder back into the fold.Jobs was initially an adviser, becoming the chief executive again in 2000. His impact was immediate. The company was streamlined, licensing was dropped and renewed emphasis put back on the brand, design and marketing."Steve was spectacularly good at getting the company highly focused in the first couple of years," David Yoffie, of Harvard Business School, said in a recent paper.The first iMac was unveiled in 1998. Jobs wanted something as startlingly new as the original Mac; the result was a stunning translucent blue casing. Its British designer, Jonathan Ives, went on to shape subsequent models as well as the iPod.Jobs has pushed for continuous updates to hardware and software to keep the market excited. In his absence the Mac had seen few innovations. The sleek white iBook laptop was introduced in 1999 and the operating system OS X was rolled out. The latest version, Tiger, was on show at Macworld with 200 new features.New eye-catching versions of the iMac were released, most recently the flat-panelled G5 with the hard drive behind the screen. The design looks strikingly similar to the iPod; another sign that Apple is trying to leverage its success in the music market back into its computer business.The iPod has been the big breakthrough. At a stroke, Apple changed consumers' habits and offered hope to a hapless music industry. Some now think Apple's future is not as a computer company. "We continue to think Apple is building a sustainable consumer electronics franchise rather than just &#91;getting&#93; lucky with hot products," Milunovich said.Open licensingThere are fears that Apple is repeating its old mistakes. The company is refusing to license its iTunes online store, forcing people to buy iPods to download songs. It has at least produced a version of iTunes for Windows and claims to have sold 230m songs (70% of all legal downloads).But with the arrival of more flexible competition, Apple could again cede its early lead and end up a niche player. Microsoft is already boasting of its open licensing of digital rights management software.It's not happening yet. In the past 12 months, the iPod's share grew from 31% to 65%, largely due to the introduction of the mini. With the iPod Shuffle the company is going after the rest of the market. At $99, it not only matches most of the low-end players, it undercuts them."It's less that Apple resisted the mass market in the past, more that the mass market resisted them," said Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at Jupiter Media. "They are now offering products at rock-bottom prices. It's not often you hear 'lowest price' and 'Apple' in the same breath."Apple hopes the iPod will create a "halo" effect as happy users try other products. The Apple Stores, 101 worldwide and counting, increase exposure to the computers. Success is vital: despite award-winning designs, the iMac has not made much impression on Apple's market share.The plan could be working. In its first-quarter results, released on Wednesday night, Apple said it had sold 337,000 units of the G5, the fastest rate of sales for a Mac in four years. It sold just over 1m Macs in the first quarter, 26% more than the previous year. Experts are divided about whether the Mac mini will help drive wider acceptance of the Apple computer."It's obviously an attempt to get to a broader market but I would suspect it's too late," said Michael Cusunomo, professor of management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "People who use PCs are tied into their software and data and comfort of usage. It doesn't seem likely to me that many would want to switch. Maybe some will, a fringe group that use iPod, but only a fringe."Apple made a mistake 20 years ago by not going for a broader market and maybe there was an opportunity to reverse that. It has since become impossible and staying in the higher end makes a lot of sense, so it's a little puzzling why they would make that move."Gartenberg disagrees. "The Apple brand has been strongly reinvigorated by the iPod and many consumers are increasingly frustrated by the viruses and spyware and the perceived unreliability of Windows," he says. "Apple has been presented with an opportunity that hasn't existed for 15 years."For now the market is betting with Gartenberg and Jobs. In the first quarter Apple posted revenues of $3.5bn, up from $2bn a year earlier. Profits were $295m, up from $63m. Apple shares, which have trebled in value in the past year, jumped another 13%.
Over at Gamedrool.com there's what the site claims is an email from Trip Hawkins, the ex-head honcho of defunct developer 3DO, complaining about a review of one of his games. Themessagewas, according to the site, sent by email to the offices of US publication GamesPro and relates to the now utterly forgotten title, Portal Runner.Reminds me of the many furious emails I received while working on Edge Magazine. I've lost count of the number of times enraged PR people threatened to withdraw advertising. I dare say we asked for it. Thing is, people lose all their critical faculties when they're involved with a project, like parents refusing to believe their child isn't perfect. I can understand that, being one of the few games journalists who has actually been involved in the development of agame.Trip, incidentally, is now head ofDigital Chocolatea very good mobile games developer. I don't think he's planning a Portal Runner conversion...
NHS patients are to be asked whether they want intimate details of their personal medical history to be included in a new national electronic database that can be accessed by GPs, paramedics and hospital staff throughout England.Those worried the information could be abused will be entitled to have it removed from the system or placed in an electronic "sealed envelope", to be opened only in a dire emergency, John Hutton, the health minister, said yesterday.However, patients restricting access to their records in this way ran the risk of clinical staff making mistakes in an emergency through lack of relevant information about previous medical conditions or allergic reactions.Mr Hutton hoped people would recognise the benefits of moving records from the old paper-based system on to a modern IT network that allowed information to be accessed wherever the patient went - subject to tight data protection rules.Nobody would be able to access an individual's records without security clearance and a medical need to know. NHS records would not be accessible under the planned national ID card register."People will say, 'If we are injured far from home, medical staff may need that information and, if they don't have it, that could kill us,'" said Mr Hutton."I strongly believe in this system. It has advantages for all of us. It removes that terrible uncertainty that someone is going to treat us without accurate information."The Department of Health would launch a public information campaign in the summer. Existing electronic records would be placed on the national database unless the patient opted out.Richard Granger, director general for NHS IT, said the electronic system would be more secure than the old paper one."It will log every person who accesses a patient's information," he said. "Paper is pretty dangerous for patients. It gets lost, can lead to prescription errors and so on."Contracts worth &#163;6.2bn had been awarded to equip the NHS with the necessary IT.However, the British Medical Association said GPs were refusing to pass over patients' records until the government gave stronger assurances about protection of confidentiality. Paul Cundy, chairman of its GPs' IT sub-committee, said it would be hard to protect data in a busy A&amp;E department where staff shared a computer terminal.
TodayTechnoratihas unveiled a new widget: tags.Essentially, it adds an extra level of depth and functionality to Technorati - which is already a great real-time weblog search engine - by including pictures fromFlickrand links fromdel.icio.usas well as picking up posts from weblog categories.Dave Sifry, the firm's head honcho, showed me throughthe softwareand it was mighty impressive.Finally all these interesting bits of social software and weblog-friendly technology are coming together and making sense.
The independent directors of QXL Ricardo, once billed as Europe's answer to eBay, have dropped their recommendation of a 700p-a-share bid from the company's executive management, who teamed up with a US private equity group to make the offer last year.The &#163;12m bid from Tiger Acquisition in November encouraged other potential buyers and before Christmas two venture capitalists emerged with an indicative approach at 800p a share.That bid by Florissant would have valued the company at &#163;13.6m, a rather paltry figure for an organisation that was valued at &#163;2.5bn at the height of the dotcom boom.QXL's directors said yesterday that they did not believe 800p a share correctly values the business, which was founded in 1997 but has never made a profit.They added that Tiger's offer "has proven to be a catalyst for interest from several parties for parts or all of QXL. In addition, the company continues to make progress in respect of the recovery of QXL Poland. Together these factors have led the independent directors to a fundamental reassessment of the value of QXL."In the absence of a satisfactory higher offer, the independent directors believe shareholders' interests are best served by the board pursuing the recovery of QXL Poland and disposals, if appropriate, to maximise shareholder value."
America might be struggling to understand the freak weather that has brought torrential rain and snow to the west coast, but it couldn't stop a whirlwind rolling in as Apple chief Steve Jobs revealed his ambitious plans for the year at the Macworld conference in San Francisco, California.Giving the show's keynote speech to a typically overenthusiastic crowd, Jobs confirmed weeks of rumour by unveiling a tiny, cheap Macintosh computer dubbed the MacMini, aimed at drawing millions more users into the company's brand."This is the most affordable Mac ever," Jobs told the conference. "It's the cheapest computer Apple has ever offered."The MacMini, which will retail in two models - a 40GB hard disk for $499 or 80GB for $599 - is aimed at providing a less expensive way for some of the estimated 6m iPod users to choose an Apple home computer. The high premium for Apple exclusivity had left the Cupertino-based firm struggling to make a strong play in the home computer market against lower cost PC manufacturers such as Dell. "We like to call it BYODKM - Bring Your Own Display,   Keyboard and Mouse," Jobs said, claiming that "people who are thinking of switching have no excuses".Also served up was the Flash-based iPod Shuffle, aimed at the lower end of the music player market.The Shuffle will come in 512MB ($99) and 1GB models ($149). To reduce size, the unit does not have a screen and will be primed to play music on a random setting - and is aimed at people who like the prestige of an Apple product but not the price. Its launch is being accompanied by the slogan "Life is random"."A year ago, iPod's market share was about 31% and Flash players had 62%. We introduced the iPod Mini to go after the high end of the Flash market. By January 2005, the iPod's market share has doubled to 65% and Flash has halved. But we'd like to go after the remaining mainstream Flash market."The iPod Shuffle is really tiny: the headphones plug in the top and it is smaller than most packs of gum. "It weighs less than an ounce," Jobs continued. "You can shuffle your music, listen to your songs in a million different ways, or by flipping a switch in the back, you can listen to a playlist."Despite the smaller capacity, Flash-based players are cheaper to produce   and more reliable than their larger cousins. The combination of no screen and solid-state Flash technology means the Shuffle will be more durable, and Apple is likely to initially target children and sports fans.Jobs will be hoping that Apple's dominance of the digital music market through iPod and the iTunes Online Music Store - which has sold in excess of 230m tracks - will draw more people into the Apple brand.He chose not to broadcast his speech simultaneously on the internet, but was in ebullient mood as he announced a raft of hardware and software releases. "We have a lot of people making accessories for the   iPod, we have an incredible iPod economy out there. This is unmatched in the industry by a mile. We think it's going to bring tons of people into this new era of digital music."Jobs' usually slick keynote routine suffered a few technical errors, but he still squeezed in a few pops at Microsoft - saying that the next OS X update, Tiger, is on target for release in the first half of 2005... "Long before Longhorn".Rumours of the MacMini and Shuffle had been circulating on the internet after the website ThinkSecret (www.thinksecret.com) published a leaked report of a sub-$500 "headless" Macintosh. Apple last week took legal action against the site for what it claims was a breach of commercial confidentiality by an employee.The one surprise was when Jobs wheeled out Sony president Kunitake Ando, to discuss their close relationship in promoting High Definition TV. Putting aside traditional rivalries, the pair put forward plans to turn HDTV into a mainstream home product through a combination of hardware and software.Other releases included upgrades to existing hardware, an iTunes-compatible Motorola phone and an office software suite, iWork.The Motorola phone, which had been trailed at the CES show last week, had not been seen until Jobs whipped one out of his pocket. At first glance it appeared in keeping with Motorola's typical style - a GSM model that can be connected to your computer to upload tunes, while an on-screen iTunes interface allows users to manage the music and even download tracks on to the XGB/MB memory. Not quite the iPhone some were expecting - and 3G capability would have helped - but it is an indication of things to come.On show at ExpoMac OSX Tiger:the upcoming release has more than 200 applications, including: Spotlight, a desktop search tool, desktop widget manager Dashboard (stock tracker, weather reports, dictionary etc), and an updated iChat, including a good-looking, four-way video conferencing facility.iLife 05:updates of Apple's digital media applications including iPhoto, iMovie, iDVD, Garageband and iTunes.iWork:includes Keynote 2 and pages, a word processor with limited desktop publishing abilities.Six of the best Macintosh sitesFree OS X downloadswww.apple.com/downloads/macosx/Think Secrethttp://thinksecret.comThe Unofficial Apple Webloghttp://apple.weblogsinc.comWired's Cult of Machttp://blog.wired.com/cultofmac/MacInTouchwww.macintouch.comThe Apple Museumwww.theapplemuseum.com
Low on thrillsAmerican McGee's ScraplandPC, Xbox, &#163;29.99/&#163;39.99 Mercury Steam/Deep Silver, &#42;&#42;&#42;America McGee commands much respect within the games industry. Originally a member of the id Software team that developed Doom and Quake before striking out on his own. Scrapland bears his stamps of quirkiness and ambitiousness, but is not destined to go down as a game of great significance.However, it will please those who feel that modern games have become identikits of each other. It tries to provide a Grand Theft Auto-style free-form gameplay experience, for the most part mixing action-adventure and airborne shoot-'em-up elements.You play D-Tritus, a robot that lands on the robot-only asteroid known as Scrapland, in which the Great Database allows the resurrection of dead robots.Unable to find any job other than the despised post of journalist, D-Tritus builds himself a hovership and divides his time between working and earning money by racing and engaging in aerial battles for the gratification of the betting-obsessed robot population.Before long, though, D-Tritus stumbles on a series of murders and embarks on a convoluted sleuthing mission. Scrapland has plenty of good points: its environments and graphics are stunning, as are its characterisations and surreal storyline.But it is let down by the action side of the gameplay, which is rather monotonous, although it does test your skills as a pilot, and becomes marginally more enjoyable when you   can afford to kit your ship out with faster engines and more devastating weaponry. Those who prize quirkiness and originality, rather than adrenalin-inducing action, should enjoy Scrapland, though.Steve BoxerAssault on sensesMechAssault 2Xbox, &#163;39.99 Microsoft, &#42;&#42;&#42;Some people go for a drink or head to the gym after a bad day at the office. But for gamers there is another way - commandeer a walking robot and blast each other to bits. The original MechAssault was a short-lived romp, which came alive when played online. In the early days of Xbox Live, this was one of the best but that was before titles such as Halo 2 and Full Spectrum Warrior upped the ante.It is into this more sophisticated market that the sequel to MechAssault arrives. This is a violent and incessant shooter that sees players controlling bi-pedal mech robots around a busy battlefield.If the thought of stomping on tanks and mowing down tiny soldiers appeals, then this is worth a look. But despite some neat touches, such as   the ability to "hack" into other bots and take them over, MechAssault 2 can only be recommended long-term for Xbox Live owners.The relatively simple shooting action takes on a new life when your opponent is from Arkansas rather than programmed artificial intelligence. Get together with friends and play capture the flag or deathmatch and MechAssault 2 makes sense. Stick to the linear and rather dull offline game and your attention will quickly waver.Greg HowsonNot much copCops 2170PC, &#163;19.99 MistLand/Dreamcatcher, &#42;&#42;&#42;January always brings its share of strange releases that wouldn't see the light of day in any other month, and this law increasingly applies to games. At first glance, Cops 2170 promises to fill a gap others have neglected for too long - the cyberpunk role-playing game, so beloved by fans of Fallout or XCom. If only the task had fallen to those developers rather than MistLand.Early minutes are compromised by an attractive but confusing interface and a terrible translation, apparently from the original Russian. With a heroine described as "a naive child believing in good and fairness", the idea that those qualities would make you want to be a cop places this firmly in the realms of fantasy rather than a grittier urban realism that might have served it better.With every level having a main problem to resolve as well as multiple sub-quests, you will soon get into the habit of clicking on everything and talking to anyone.Always interesting to look at, Cops 2170 is certainly keenly priced - but even so, non-fans of this genre might want to stick around until it shows up in the bargain bins for a tenner less.Mike AnderieszTop 5 gamesAll formats1.Need for Speed: Underground 22.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas3.Prince of Persia 2: Warrior Within4.Fifa Football 20055.The Incredibles&#183;Source: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack&#183;Keep up with the latest from the gaming world with our Gamesblog atblogs.guardian.co.uk/games
I'm not normally a huge fan of retro videogames - once you've wiped away the tears of nostalgic joy you're usually left let down by the rudimentary and frustrating action. I don't buy the "pure gameplay" argument either - yes, programmers had to focus on the gameplay then, but it's because they weren't able to add decent plot, visuals or audio. I was 10 in 1983. If I could have played GTA: San Andreas or Fable then I would have ditchedAnt Attackin a flash. Having said that, I do have some time for this - theCommodore 64 Direct to TVgame that plugs straight into the TV.TheC64was in some ways the Xbox of its day - big, ugly and American. But it was also more powerful than its main competitor - the ZX Spectrum - and had a stack of corking games available for it. The Direct to TV version only has a handful of these, includingParadroid, Impossible Mission and Winter Games. Yes please. There's even some lesser titles, half-remembered fromZzap 64reviews, like Ranarama and Firelord.But will something like this appeal to console fans today? Probably not your average 15 year-old PS2 owner, but those who remember Thing on a Spring andEntombed(sadly neither included) will be keen on this. And Paradroid still holds up really well today, unlike the vast majority of elderly games.
Doesn't look too bad, especially by Apple standards. A 1.25GHz Mac mini with the essential 512MB of memory, keyboard and mouse comes out at £427.01 ($804) at Apple Store UK. That is without a screen, of course, but includes free delivery.For comparison, a 2.6GHz Dell Dimension 2400 (D01245) --priced to sell at £330as standard -- currently comes out at £447, including 512MB of memory, a Firewire port (£23.50 extra), a 17in CRT monitor, VAT and shipping.The market may be a bit tougher in the US, where the bare Mini mac costs "from $499" (£265). You can get a 2.66GHzeMachines Desktop PC (T2862)from Circuit City for $449.99 (£239), or an even more attractive $299.99 (159.36) after rebates.Update:Actually, the Mac mini looks to be at least half the price of a similar PC, if you really want something that small, and you are not planning to assemble it yourself. Small form factor PCs don't seem to have a very good survival rate -- even HP's ePC has vanished -- and the Jadetec, for example, costs £740 with a CD-ROM instead of a combo drive. (Tom's Hardware has some good picsherefrom 2002.) Otherwise, the novelNanodewon't be out until Q2 this year.I bet the guys at Via are rubbing their hands at the prospect of selling their 12 x 12cmNano-ITX motherboardsto PC cloners who want to make Mac mini knock-offs.
Virgin Radio will become the first station to offer pictures as well as sound when it launches a new "visual radio" service in the spring, available via Nokia mobile phones.The broadcaster said its new interactive service would make it easier for listeners to interact with Virgin Radio using their mobile phones, on a 24-hour, seven days a week basis.Developed by mobile phone giant Nokia, visual radio works by sending images to mobile phones which are synchronised with the station's play list.Listeners using their mobile phones to tune into Virgin will be able to vote for play lists, rank particular songs, take part in competitions or buy ringtones and tracks by clicking on the various images, rather than sending texts.Virgin will create the visual content using special software created by Nokia and computer giant HP, which is then broadcast to mobiles.Nokia, which is introducing two new visual radio enabled mobile models to kickstart the service, claims there will be 100 million of the sets worldwide by the end of next year.More than 2.5 million people, or just over 5% of the UK adult population, already use their mobile phones to listen to the radio, an increase of over 40% since last year, according to radio advertising body the RAB.The head of new media at Virgin, James Cridland, said the service would help increase the length of time listeners tuned in on their mobiles, as well as providing key demographic information to advertisers."We know from what we've done on the internet that added interactivity boosts our listening hours, with 79% of listeners who use the website tuning in for longer," he added."Secondly there's an advertising benefit. For the first time we now know who is listening from the moment they first interact with us. It's adding the red button to the radio in the same way that BSkyB adds it to the TV."He added that the response from advertisers, who now have the ability to send ads directly to mobiles, had been positive.The product manager at Nokia, Reidar Wasenius, said the success of visual radio was dependent on both other handset manufacturers and stations adopting the service.He said Kiss FM in Finland will be the first station to launch the service, when it goes live next month and that discussions with other handset manufacturers were ongoing.Virgin, whose roster of DJs includes breakfast show hosts Pete and Geoff, was the first commercial station in Europe to broadcast over the internet, where it is currently the most listened to station.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
"Apple Computer Corp. has become the darling of the technology sector for its wildly popular digital music player. But scorching iPod sales have also made it the target of an aggressive environmental coalition, which is trashing Apple as rotten to the core," reportsAP."Environmentalists with the Computer TakeBack Campaign are planning a yearlong campaign to protest Apple's lackluster recycling efforts. Despite drizzle on Tuesday at the annual Macworld Conference &amp; Expo, activists passed out leaflets and erected a giant banner proclaiming, 'from iPod to iWaste'."Comment:The Computer TakeBack Campaign has a Bad Apple site athttp://www.badapple.bizwhere users can tell Steve Jobs to recycle his iWaste.
BetaNews created a bit of a stir by announcing a bug in Google's Gmail that "allows access to other users' personal e-mails. By altering the 'From' address field of an e-mail sent to the service, hackers could potentially find out a user's personal information, including passwords," says its storyhere.The story drew the prompt response from Chris DiBona, Open Source Program Manage, Google Inc, saying:We fixed this some time ago. See our reply to the slashdot article here:http://it.slashdot.org/a...amp;tid=217&amp;tid=218
If you are one of the millions who received a new mobile phone handset for Christmas, you are undoubtedly happy with your new toy. Perhaps you're hoping the new model will give you something to show off down the pub, or in the office. Perhaps the new camera facility, or 3G streaming video, will somehow alter your lifestyle for the good.With mobile phones, you see, change is everything. A raft of research over the past few years has started to point towards mobile phones as things that are changing not only our culture and our language, but our very bodies as well.The culture first. The difference between mobile phones and their landline elders is that a mobile number corresponds to a person, while a landline is a place. If you call my mobile, you get me. If you call my landline, you get who ever is closest to my desk at the time.This has many implications, but the most common one, and perhaps the thing that has changed British culture for ever, is that of approximeeting. People no longer need to make firm plans about when and where to meet. Twenty years ago, a Friday night would need to be arranged in enough time to allow everyone to get from their place of work to the first meeting place. Now, however, a night out can be rearranged on the fly. It is no longer "see you here at eight", but "text me around eight and we'll see where we all are".Some people see it as a weakening of commitment in society, and a continuation of a form of teenage casualness. Of course, this isn't necessarily a bad thing. While such critics return to sucking pensively on their Murray Mints, the same techniques the young use to arrange a quick pint are also being used to bring down governments. The most famous example is the removal from power in 2001 of Filipino president Joseph Estrada by a demonstration organised by text message chain letters.Texting changed everything again. In their paper, Insights into the Social and Psychological Effects of SMS Text Messaging, Donna Reid and Fraser Reid distinguished between two types of mobile phone users: the Talkers and the Texters - those who prefer voice over text messaging and vice versa.They found that the mobile phone's individuality and privacy gives Texters the ability to express a whole new persona: "Texters were also more likely to report that their family would be surprised if they were to read their texts, suggesting that texting allowed Texters to present a self-image that differs from the one familiar to family members and others who know them well," they said."Texters may feel at greater ease being their 'real-self' through a text message reducing the potential repercussions that may otherwise take place in a traditional face-to-face or telephone encounter. Texting may offer Texters more control over their interactions with others by affording them visual anonymity and asynchronous communication. As such the mobile may become more a matter of identity than a simple communication tool."Self-discovery is one thing, but clear communication quite another. The London School of Business's Business Strategy Review claims that quick emails and casual text messaging is ruining our ability to express ourselves clearly.Mobiles aren't always welcome, no matter how important they have become in society. When the US Federal Communications Commission proposed lifting the ban on in-flight phone calls last month, it was inundated with thousands of emails begging it to reconsider. The one haven from other people's conversations, the emails said, must be preserved. In one survey, 45% of British mobile phone users supported a ban on their use in public places.Cameraphones come off worse when it comes to bans. In November, Shaun Nash, a 19 year old from Bristol, was given six months in a young offenders institute after taking pictures from the public gallery of the city's crown court. Cameraphones are banned in all schools in West Lothian, as they are in many offices.In Korea, cameraphones must, by law, make a loud shutter noise whenever a picture is taken to alert others of any nefarious snapping. Men had been caught standing behind short-skirted girls, and casually snapping away with their phone held by their side. Such "up-skirt" shots have caused laws to be passed in many countries to ban that activity, and to restrict the use of cameraphones in changing rooms and other such places.The rare occurrence of an up-skirt cameraphone shot is sufficiently serious to merit such legislation, but what about more common annoyances, like other people? The reason other people's conversations are so irritating to overhear comes down to language, and our second category of change.Andrew Monk and his team of researchers from the University of York have found that people instinctively listen more attentively to conversations where they can only hear one side. This additional attention means you can't ignore the conversation, and the tension created by the need to hear the other side means it rapidly starts to rankle.Another researcher, Lee Humphreys, of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, has found that the irritation can be mitigated by a conscious understanding of its purpose - you are going to be late, where exactly is this pub, and so on - but is made worse when the call is seemingly banal twaddle. Other respondents to Humphreys' surveys said that the thing they disliked the most was the problem of too much information: arguments, break-ups and, forgive me, "intimate gynaecological information". Altogether too much for the 8.10 to Euston.Actually, as a digression, this same one-sided tension occurs when you hear a mobile phone ring and it is not answered. Because a mobile belongs to a person and not a place, you are socially restricted from answering it. But a ringing phone compels you to answer it. This conflict can drive you potty. While language affects the way we see other people's use of mobiles, mobiles themselves are changing language.Contrary to popular imagination, however, the swapping of letters for numbers that sound that same -"gr8" for great, "ru" for are you, "cu l8r" for "see you later", and so on - is not very common. In his paper titled Generation Txt, Crispin Thurlow, of the University of Washington, found that relatively few "letter-number homophones" are used. However, people do use onomatopoeia, comic-book exclamations (such as Yippee!) and emoticons. ;-)This just leaves our bodies. A four-year German study, to be published this month, has shown that the radiation emitted from a normal mobile will mutate the DNA of suspended cells. The researchers are looking for funding to see if the same effect occurs in living tissue.Meanwhile, a 10-year study out of Sweden, which the government this week noted, said that people who had used a mobile phone for more than 10 years were more than twice as likely as those who had used mobiles for less than that time to get a form of benign tumour inside the ear on the side they held their phone. The report from the Institute of Environmental Medicine at the Karolinska Institutet, found the incidence of acoustic neuroma (AN) to be increased by mobile use; and while AN won't kill you, it can make you deaf, imbalanced, suffer from tinnitus and, in very severe cases, paralyse your face. The jury is still out on this, however. Some studies have found the same thing, while others have found no connection at all.A paper in 2002 from Warwick University's Dr Sadie Plant explained that dedicated mobile users had developed thumbs with much greater muscularity and dexterity than would normally be found. The teenagers studied, the paper says, also use their thumbs for actions normally reserved for forefingers, such as ringing doorbells.This transformation, found in mobile phone users all around the world, has spawned a redefining of a Japanese word. Oyayubizoku, or "thumb tribe", once meant people who spent their time playing pachinko. Now it refers to those who prefer texting on their "keitai" to face-to-face communication.Dr Plant, in another paper, also wrote of the change in body language that mobiles bring about. There are two poses that people adopt while on the phone: the "speakeasy", with head held high, self-assuredly chatting away; and the "spacemaker", which is more introverted and closed. "It was observed," she wrote, "that many people sitting down in public spaces - at cafe tables, for example, or on park benches - tend to draw their bodies up, take their feet off the ground, or otherwise create a feeling of safety and withdrawal."And who can blame them? With approximeetings being cancelled and reformed, cameraphones sidling up skirts, and health worries, it would be understandable if your mobile made you nervous. But perhaps you needn't worry so much. After all, it's good to talk.
When I was a fledgling virtual worlds researcher, one of the first studies I came across was Nick Yee'sDaedalus Project, examining the psychology of people who play Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games (MMOGs). His enormous document covers demographics, gender, likes and dislikes, hobbies, habits and playing styles of the people who spend an average of 21 hours per week living in online fantasy worlds. While some of it makes large claims in psychology of personality and uses some simple science, the depth and breadth of the research is enormous.Well, he's updated the results - again - and having determined that almost 50% of EverQuest players "gender bend" in the game and 36% of MMOG gamers are married, he's moving into my area of interest -the importation of stereotypes between the real and the virtual world, the virtualpolice state,online altruismand an examination of why people become onlinegame pests. He's also looked at the real-world impact of gaming on the consumption of other forms ofmedia; according to the study on hours playing MMOGs vs. hours spent watching TV, online gamers spend an average of 20.3 hours less in front of the boob tube than non-MMOG gamers. I argue that this is not a bad thing at all.For more results and a tremendous insight into the people who make virtuality what it is, head to Nick'sHub, and toTerra Novafurther information.
This week, we celebrate the emergence of a new national joke. Anecdotes of bizarre travel itineraries that can be obtained from the government's new web portal Transport Direct (www.transportdirect.info), publicly launched on New Year's Eve, are already circulating at dinner parties. That's great news for stand-up comics, if not for e-government.Most of the time, Transport Direct works well. It has been on my favourites list since last summer, when the Department of Transport slipped a beta version on to the web. The site provides point-to-point directions by car or public transport between individual addresses, bus stops (330,000 of them) railway stations and places of interest. It has saved my   professional reputation a few times.It has also come up with some gloriously wacky suggestions - such as a 14-hour itinerary for the 240 miles from London to Plymouth, involving an overnight bus journey to Cornwall and then doubling back on the train.Despite a year's testing, there are more serious bugs. The journey planner doesn't recognise either "channel tunnel" or "Eurotunnel". A search the other day for directions to the tunnel twice produced directions to Severn Tunnel Junction, a railway station in exactly the opposite direction.Glitches, of course, will be sorted out with time. No one is suggesting that Transport Direct's users abandon common sense when they log on. A more serious question is why Whitehall is running such a service   in the first place. The cost is not trivial - &#163;16.7m so far, according to the Department of Transport. Also, government's presence in this space discourages independent ventures.One argument is that Transport Direct creates a public good by persuading car drivers to consider public transport. Much is made of the claim that the site provides realistic journey times by predicting delays according to the date and time of your journey. Except it doesn't. Transport Direct's estimated driving times are ludicrously optimistic, with the result that nearly every time, the car emerges as a more attractive option than bus or train.The congestion allowances are plain bonkers. Had I really wanted to drive from central London to the Severn tunnel, for example, the   site told me the journey would take 2 hours 36 minutes on a Sunday morning and only 29 minutes longer during Friday rush hour.Even more bizarre, for a three-mile commute up the A1 I know all too well, Transport Direct's estimate was 18 minutes against the morning rush. In practice, it takes at least 25. With the evening rush hour, the estimate was a completely fantastic 19 minutes: reality is nearer an hour.It is possible that the optimism is engineered - it wouldn't be the first time the motoring lobby has nobbled Whitehall. More likely is that the developers underestimated the complexity of computing all the variables involved.For all its technical achievement, Transport Direct will be producing dinner-party anecdotes for months to come.
The consumer electronics market is booming, with US sales now growing by about 11% a year, according to the Consumer Electronics Association's (CEA) director of industry analysis, Sean Wargo. The CEA's market research suggests that, based on wholesale prices, sales of consumer electronics products grew from $102.6bn (&#163;54.2bn) in 2003 to an estimated $113.5bn last year, with a projected $125.7bn this year.The growth in sales is being driven by the shift to digital formats for television and music, with high-definition HDTV, digital video recorders, satellite radio and portable digital music players all taking off in a big way. And the consumers who are buying new TV sets are increasingly being attracted to the big flat screens that dominated CES, the giant Consumer Electronics Show held in Las Vegas last week.The traditional colour telly is still the best seller, says Wargo, but US sales of LCD and plasma TV sets grew from $761m (&#163;405m) in 2002 to $4.5bn (&#163;2.4bn) in 2004, and should reach $6.6bn (&#163;3.5bn) this year. Sales of big-screen rear-projection TV sets are also taking off, with the arrival of   impressively thin models based on Texas Instruments' DLP (Digital Light Processing) micro-mirror chips.The PC market is also going well in the US, with sales of personal computers and monitors growing from $14.2bn (&#163;7.5bn) in 2002 to $19.4bn in 2004, with Wargo projecting $20.7bn this year. Again, sales are being helped by the arrival of larger, cheaper LCD screens on both desktop and notebook models. Consumers with large flat screen TVs are prime targets for further sales pitches, such as "media servers" with large hard drives to store their photos, music, and movies, and "mart home" products such as security and home automation systems.In this and other ways, PC and consumer electronics (CE) technologies are converging, and this is helping PC companies become consumer electronics companies. Hewlett-Packard, for example, has long been supplying consumers with printers and digital cameras, and more recently has added MP3 players, Windows Media Center PCs and flat screen TVs. During her CES speech, HP's chief executive, Carly Fiorina, announced more flat-screen TVs and another media centre.The CE and PC industries are also starting to work together through organisations such as the Digital Living Network Alliance (DLNA), which will certify devices to reassure consumers that their "media servers" and "media rendering devices" will actually work together.Until recently, consumers have moved their physical media around. For example, a standard CD audio disc could be played in different places using a home hi-fi, in a games console, in the car or, using a portable player, on a train or plane. There was never any need to connect all these systems together. But if the music is a digital file, you have to move the bits around, and that may mean wiring the house.Or not. Wargo has logged what he calls The Rise of MRAV - multi-room audio visual systems - but these are generally installed by professionals, and ideally are included as part of the structure of new houses. Companies operating in this high-end market have formed an organisation called Cedia (Custom Electronic Design and Installation Association), but as systems are standardised and prices come down, this sort of thing should become more widely available.Of course, ordinary consumers are much keener on not installing any new wires, if they can avoid it. The obvious alternatives are Wi-Fi and other forms of wireless networking, as used in Philips' Streamium audio and television products, and the house's existing electrical wiring.Mains-borne or powerline networking has been a staple of the   consumer electronics industry since the X-10 home automation system was launched in the 1970s, but its progress has been less than impressive. However, that could change with the adoption of the HomePlug 1.0 standard and, in the UK, Packard Bell has already launched a PC with HomePlug built in.Rouhana G Rouhana, from Intellon Corporation, a leading powerline supporter at CES, says the two approaches are complementary. "We think wireless is a great solution for laptops," he says, "but powerline is easier to install, more robust, and more secure."Although HomePlug has limited capacity, Rouhana says that a next-generation standard, HomePlug AV, "is expected to be standardised in the next couple of months, and that's designed to distribute high-definition television around the house." It should reliably carry around 50 megabytes per second of data - enough for two HDTV streams.There is also another wireless standard on the way, called ZigBee, which has been designed for building automation and monitoring applications, such as controlling light and heating, smoke alarms and curtains or blinds. One early "ZigBee ready" product shown at CES was Eaton Electrical's Home Heartbeat, a portable wireless "key" that "provides consumers with anytime knowledge of the inner workings of their homes while they go about their daily lives," says the blurb.The ZigBee standard (IEEE 802.15.4) is designed to have very low power requirements so that devices can run for years on cheap batteries. Also, a ZigBee network can have more than 65,000 nodes connected to its network coordinator, so it will be possible to have very large networks that include lots of sensors for monitoring purposes.At the moment, it is far from clear how all these systems are going to fit together. However, the interest they aroused at CES suggests that home networking is finally about to leave the realm of science fiction and start to become an everyday reality.Linkswww.cedia.orgwww.cesweb.orgwww.dlp.comwww.dlna.orgwww.homeplug.orgwww.x10pro.comwww.zigbee.org
You rely on clocks to tell you the time, but would you rely on an ornament to tell you how your sales team is doing? In the executive office of 2005, even your desk lamp might have an opinion.Relying on spreadsheets to analyse reams of data can hide important trends. Turning the numbers into images can help you absorb information in seconds rather than hours. The tools for visualising commercial information have historically come from the business intelligence (BI) reporting market. This software uses charts to represent complex data that can be sliced and diced by business staff. It is not the sort of thing you use without technical training and the time to understand the results.Not everyone needs that level of detail, and the tools available to visualise business data are changing. That could be a good thing for time-constrained executives, most of whom don't have the time or the skill for click-and-drill reporting software.The new information appliance could take the form of a glowing desk ornament, due to ship in the UK this summer. The Stock Orb, from US company Ambient Devices, is a coloured globe that changes hue depending on the conditions. Originally developed to monitor the Dow Jones index, it gradually turns green as the index goes up, and red when it slips. The orb gets its information from Ambient, which broadcasts data over surplus bandwidth on pager networks. Although marketed as a stock tracker, Ambient is adding more information channels to the orb every month - consumers can track pollen count and the weather."We're making polite electronics that don't interrupt you when they have information for you," says Ert Dredge, vice-president of software systems, contrasting the orbs with the harsh ringing of mobile phones. The ambient devices are glanceable information sources, he says, much like the clock or the barometer. The company also sells a device with a bank of barometer-like needles, designed to measure three data streams at once.But these devices will tell more than   the time or the weather. Although Ambient is initially targeting the retail market, there are opportunities for corporate users, too, says Dredge. The company's premium account service lets customers rent a slice of bandwidth on the wireless network. Customers can then use a simple software development interface to relay their data across the network. The orb can then change colour and pulse depending on what's happening in your company. If your sales team is on target, the orb could turn green. If it is underperforming, it could glow an angry red.Adam Oliver, head of access to information at BT Global Services, wants to take the idea a stage further, with orbs that provide more information on demand. "A device that tells you about something by changing colour can only tell you so much information, but then you have to go on to your PC to get more detail," he says. "I wanted something that had a lot more colour and sound, and which spoke to you, reading you information."Oliver's devices, which he hopes will ship within 18 months, will be able to alert users to information using coloured patterns displayed on a 5 x 7 coloured grid, and they will read out the details in response to hand gestures. He sees potential applications in healthcare, for example, where a device could display coloured areas on the screen growing gradually brighter to indicate waiting patients. "You could wave your hand and say 'patients' and it would give you more in-depth information."These orb devices are new interfaces looking for data sources that could benefit from their glanceable displays. The traditional business intelligence companies with a background in structuring and storing gigabytes of complex information are looking at the problem from the other way around. They have the data, but are in need of a display mechanism.Sadly, glowing orbs won't solve their problems because the interface needs to be more interactive. "Take something like sales," says Nigel Youell, UK marketing director of BI firm Hyperion. "You need to   know who sold what, what channel it went through, to what region, to which customers, at what price and when it was bought."In September, Hyperion released a product called Visual Explorer along with its Essbase data analysis software. Customers can view the data using objects with different shapes and colours that change as you drag different dimensions of data into the picture.While Hyperion comes from a business intelligence background, other firms are focusing on the reporting side - what Tawfik Hammoud, vice-president of marketing at Canadian data visualisation firm Antarctica, calls the "last mile of business intelligence". Antarctica, which hopes to enter the UK this year, uses principles by Yale professor Edward Tufte, including stripping out everything that doesn't represent data.A US-based competitor, the Hive Group, focuses on tree mapping, a technique developed at the University of Maryland. Tree mapping takes a hierarchical "tree" of information and turns it on its end, displaying the most detailed pieces of data - the roots - as squares inside supersets of data that help to categorise and describe data more easily.The Hive Group has developed applications to visually browse the index of news feeds at news service NewsisFree, along with Amazon's huge product index. But the Amazon browser is a pilot application, built using the web retailer's freely available web services interface. Amazon isn't using Honeycomb commercially to provide a better shopping experience, and neither are many other e-commerce players, says Tony Jewitt, the Hive Group's chief executive. "The old guard at the e-commerce companies says it is too complex for the average online shopper. I don't buy that."Even if e-commerce providers aren't interested, the Department of Defence and intelligence agencies in the US are. They use it to analyse everything from equipment inventory to patterns in non-mainstream news reports.While constantly evolving reporting tools will appeal to tactical decision makers, the new generation of polite electronics that let you know in passing how your sales team is doing will be useful to executives who don't always have time for details.Perhaps these data-rich orbs are also a sign of the times. In the 1970s, executive toys such as the Newton's Cradle just looked pretty, but in the efficiency-mad 21st century, even desk ornaments will have to know what is going on in the office.LinksAmbient Deviceswww.ambientdevices.comAntarcticawww.antarctica.netHive Groupwww.hivegroup.comEdward Tuftewww.edwardtufte.comHyperionwww.hyperion.com
Mobile PhonesIn a clamshellSamsung stole the show with its P207, the first phone to feature technology that translates voice into text, thereby speeding up the creation of text messages and emails. The clamshell-style model should be out in the UK in the spring. Samsung also paraded the SCH-S250, the first phone with a five megapixel camera and hinted that a version of the mobile could be on sale in the US, and maybe even Europe, later this year.LG debuted the F7250, a sliding phone (similar to Siemens' much-copied SL-55) with a large front display and push-to-talk (which turns the phone into a kind of walkie talkie) facilities.Motorola kept the home flag flying by displaying its two Microsoft Windows Mobile-based smartphones, the MPx (which boasts a full Qwerty keyboard) and the MPx220. It also announced a new clamshell, the V635, which will arrive in the UK shortly. A little more elusive was Motorola/Apple's iTunes handset, which made a fleeting appearance in a speech delivered by Ron Garriques, Motorola's executive vice-president .Personal audioApple rests easyAlmost all the major consumer electronics brands paraded new hard disk-based audio and video personals. Yet few of the products shown at CES will   have Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, losing too much sleep.Philips showed a neat, pendant-style three gigabyte music player in the GoGear Hdd084, while Rio unveiled a 2.5GB model - the ce2100. Possibly the best 20 GB player was the ultra-slim Auvi SA1500, which is finished in black and will be on sale in April for a great deal less than the iPod. Both Samsung and LG also promised a range of hard disk audio models for 2005.iPod accessoriesMaking a caseHundreds of companies paraded iPod accessories, with the most high profile being Bluetooth wireless headsets from Ten Technologies, Toshiba and iCombi.Other notables included a range of iPod cases with built-in speakers from Sakar, iPod-friendly hi-fi systems from Altec Lansing (InMotion iM4) and Focal (the icub), and the Movie Player from Nyoko, which enables standard audio iPods to play back video footage.Personal videoFar east is in tuneA large number of companies, mainly from the far east, displayed hard disk-based personal video systems. Our favourite was the Ovideon Aviah, a 5GB player with a striking OLED screen, which also boasts a built-in TV tuner. Almost as impressive was the MBOT 500 from Ezav, a 1GB Flash memory-  based audio player with its own tiny OLED screen that can just about show video clips.TV and videoSharp's screen testSupporters of Blu-ray and HD DVD, the two formats competing to be the long-term replacement for recordable DVD, offered lots of demos but few product announcements. Most of the delegates seemed more interested in the screens than players. Once again, Samsung's range proved popular, with its 102in plasma, the biggest of its kind in the world, one of the big draws. Sharp paraded a superb collection of LCD sets under its Aquos banner, and Sony treated Americans to their first glimpse of the Qualia 005, a $12,000 (&#163;6,400), 46in, high-definition LCD TV.Go digitalFlash camcordersKodak unveiled one of the most innovative cameras for years in the EasyShare One, a four megapixel model with a large, fold-out screen and, via an adaptor, Wi-Fi to enable users to easily transfer images. Pentax showed the OptioWP, a five megapixel compact that is waterproof to around three metres.The show was also awash with Flash memory-based camcorders, most of which were smaller and cheaper than their traditional DV-based counterparts. Expected to be market leaders this year are Samsung, with the MinKet X, and Panasonic, with its D-Snap SV-AV50.RobotsRobosapien speaksFrench manufacturer Wany Robotics delivered two hugely innovative products in a sophisticated robot vacuum cleaner and a home monitoring robot that wanders around a home and texts or emails images to the owner if it discovers anything suspicious.However, likely to be the year's best-selling robot is the latest version of Robosapien (the V2), which, like its predecessor, can kung-fu kick and fart. This time round it can also talk, pick up objects and interact with his new chum, the Robopet.Best of the restEven a kitchen sinkYou could find everything from software to teach the tone deaf to sing, to GPS collars for dogs. Among our fave gadgets were the Home Heartbeat, a monitoring system that lets you know if you leave a tap running or a window open, a DVD system from Jeep that also has a mosquito repellent and a siren, and the Internet Phone Wizard from Actiontec, which enables owners to make internet calls using Skype from their landline phones.Stat of the week: Demographics of the bloggersStatistics seem to show that although most bloggers are experienced internet users, having a degree doesn't appear to be a prerequisite. With most of the blogger households earning less than $50,000 (&#163;26,500) a year, it is clear you don't have to be well off to blog
Safety firstI'm planning to get an ADSL Modem/Wireless Router (a Netgear DG834G), and I'm wondering if with the firewall in the router, any further PC firewall software would be redundant - and undesirable because of software clashes.Penelope ShoreJack Schofield replies:Like many other products, the Netgear DG834G Wireless ADSL Modem Firewall Router includes a firewall, and this should protect you from hacker attacks and other attempted intrusions. However, it will not do anything to stop malware programs that arrive by email, or that you download and install by mistake or because they are included with programs you want, such as file-sharing software. So, unless you are 100% sure your PC is and will remain 100% clean, then you still need to run a software firewall. This will monitor all the programs that are running and warn you if anything tries to access the net. The minimum requirement is the free firewall included in Microsoft Windows XP SP2, but other free firewalls are available. Don't use the firewall in the old XP: it only checks incoming traffic, and you need to keep an eye on outgoing traffic.Free AVGCould you tell me where to download some free anti-virus software?Ken UrwinJS:I usually recommend Grisoft's AVG. Grisoft launched a new version 7 in November, and you can download it fromhttp://free.grisoft.com. Readers   using earlier versions should upgrade to this, because Grisoft ceased to update the database or offer support for earlier versions on December 31, 2004.Windows detailsHaving recently upgraded from Windows 98 to Windows XP Professional, I find it annoying to have to manually switch from Mosaic view to Details every time I open a folder. There must be a way to make the OS remember this most simple of user preferences!TaliaJS:Open a folder in Windows Explorer and select the Details view. Next, go to Tools/Folder Options and click the View tab. Then comes the important bit: go to the option that says "Remember each folder's view setting" and uncheck it. Finally, click the button to Apply to All Folders. This should work. Unfortunately, it seems that in a fit of stupidity, Microsoft set it up so that "by default, Windows Explorer will remember your view settings for 400 views", according to thewww.TweakXP.comwebsite. This presumably accounts for the way Explorer suddenly forgets what you've told it and uses apparently random settings. Tweak XP explains how to change the Registry to make it 1,000 views at:www.tweakxp.com/tweak2087.aspx.Video callingMy 90-year-old mother has never used a computer, but I've been thinking about getting her a laptop, webcam and broadband connection so she can see and talk to her grandchildren more regularly. However, I'm not sure she'd master the technology without a lot of hand-holding we can't provide. Are there alternatives?Simon TepperJS:With a PC, both AIM (AOL Instant Messenger) and MSN Messenger are fairly easy to use for video chats, and recent versions of AIM can talk to Macs running iChat AV. There's also a video version of Skype   on the way. However, operating a personal computer is not always easy for the inexperienced, and a video phone would seem to be a better bet. Sadly, even 40 years after they were first shown, video phones have yet to catch on, and BT has now withdrawn its Motion Media 215 after trials.Google turns up the Vialta Beamer (www.qtsltd.co.uk/26287.html) as a possible solution. I have not seen one, but since it works over a standard phone line, I wouldn't expect the video to be very good. If you can wait a few months, Vonnage, which sells internet phones, is launching a video phone probably based on the Viseon VisiFone II (www.viseonvideo.com). On balance, I think that's your best option.Rather than buying your mother a PC and broadband, it might be better to get two 3G mobile phones from 3. However, as far as I can see, the VideoTalk 1000 tariff is the cheapest monthly option to include video calls as standard, and that's &#163;60 a month for 50 minutes/25 events - or &#163;120 to you. What do readers think?Backchat&#183;Last year, Tom Roberts asked about adding a Wiki to his website. Only one reader responded. Andy Ducker says: "I set up a Wiki remarkably easily using UseMod. It is a single file, includes security, works like a dream, and took me about 15 minutes to set up. You need the ability to run Perl, but most hosted sites will happily allow this. It's atwww.notzen.com/andrew/."&#183;Ray Devaney wanted a DAB radio with a built-in MP3 player, and we chose the unavailable Perstel DR-301 on his behalf. James Neill has received an email from Perstel, which says: "There has been a delay in the launch of the DR-301, and the product is now planned to be launched in the UK in mid-January 2005. We expect the price to be around &#163;150."
When it comes to email, there are no good causes. Bear that in mind the next time anyone forwards you a message that purports to help a lost boy find his family, or prevent a virus from spreading, or save you making a call that is (incorrectly) claimed to cost &#163;50 a minute.As it happens, roughly 99.999% of email circulars are out of date, inaccurate, obvious hoaxes or flat-out lies. Most of these are easy to spot. If in doubt, it only takes a few seconds to check them out on Google, or on the Snopes website - see the links above, including one to the amusing Gullibility virus.However, you may be forwarded one or two emails that could be described as worthy causes. If so, you could be tempted to act. Just    make sure you never forward the email to everyone in your address book, or even to a few friends. This is always a bad idea.As you have probably guessed by now, I have been suffering from a glut of messages about Hannes Bergstrom, a toddler found sitting alone at the Bang Niang Beach after the recent tsunami in Asia.They were forwarded by people who meant well. Sadly, all they did was clog up the internet, clog up people's inboxes, and waste a huge amount of time and resources.Forwarding the email was a waste of time because the lost boy had already been found. (Typing "lost boy" into Snopes will bring up the details.) It was also a waste of time because email is the wrong medium for circulating chain-letters and non-specific, impersonal messages. It can too easily get out of hand.If every person who gets an email forwards it to 50 people, then there are 50 recipients in the first round, 2,500 in the second, 125,000 in the third, and more than 6 million in the fourth.Then it starts to get serious, with 312.5m in the fifth round, and 15.6bn in the sixth. That's why convincing hoaxes and worthy causes are potentially damaging.In real life, of course, people are members of groups of friends and friends of friends, so most of us get half a dozen copies of the same email and some may get dozens.The correct way to circulate this kind of information is to post it to a message board on the web, or some other noticeboard where it can be seen by hundreds or thousands of people. That is how Hannes Bergstrom was reunited with his family. And if you really    feel you must email someone about a worthy cause, don't forward the original email (especially not a big email with images attached), just send a link.Companies can help by blocking email hoaxes and similar circulars along with the usual spam, and by posting warnings about them to their internal noticeboards. They are a huge waste of time and could have an impact on limited email storage space.LinksUrban Legends Reference Pageswww.snopes.comHoaxbusters - US governmenthttp://hoaxbusters.ciac.orgHoax Slayerwww.hoax-slayer.comSymantec hoax listwww.symantec.com/avcenter/hoax.htmlGullibility virushttp://bob.bob.bofh.org/~robm/manual/virus/gullibility.html
Legal loopholesDavid McCandless may be deluding himself and readers that siphoning off someone's Wi-Fi internet service is legal (Neighbourhood Wi-Fi watch, January 6). In the 1990 Computer Misuse Act (CMA), "computer" was deliberately left undefined. Thus, when you use someone's wireless access point (Wap), you could be making an unauthorised access for the purposes of section one of the CMA. An adventurous prosecutor could also look at section one of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 and suggest an unlawful interception (is some of the data you are receiving actually intended for the owner of the Wap?). The hijacker's main protection will probably be the difficulty in obtaining evidence, and the fact that hi-tech police and prosecutors have more noxious adversaries to deal with.Peter SommerLondon School of EconomicsWireless solutionsIt is worth noting that the ease of setting up resource sharing networks with Wi-Fi can be seen as a feature, not a bug. Across the UK, many communities, such aswww.burngreave.netandwww.manchesterwireless.net, are connecting themselves by taking advantage of this simplicity. Also, breaking into WEP protected wireless networks is an almost trivial task that can be completed in minutes using tools such as Aircrack.Rather than using the weak default security protocols provided by most domestic Wi-Fi equipment, the community wireless groups have   been developing ways of allowing people to connect with real security and privacy, using techniques such as virtual private networking, NoCat and 802.1x, while also allowing managed roaming open access.Perhaps McCandless could have done better by contacting his local wireless community group and sharing his resources with his neighbours, rather than attempting to confine them with paper-thin walls.Alan DawsonSheffieldFair deal for MacsI disagree that Macs are more of a cultural phenomenon than a computing platform (Mad for Macs, January 6). I have been using Macs alongside Windows PCs for more than 15 years in a professional office environment and at home.I make my living from helping businesses understand how computing and communications technology can support their businesses better and be maintained more cheaply. If Macs were as widely deployed as Windows machines, I would be out of a job.There is a pervasive perception that Macs are not serious computers, one result of the propagation of articles such as yours. It would be nice if organisations and people had more support from the press at large to try Macs and see. In terms of maintenance and associated costs, the Mac wins hands down.James ClarkKentMeaningless mailI read with interest Dave Birch's take on the amount of email stored by the civil service (Second sight, January 6). I suspect he is grossly underestimating the amount of storage needed. What with the round-robin emails telling you about so-and-so's leaving do and the relentless memos from on high, usually packed with unnecessary graphics. 500K a day? You must be joking. More like 50MB.Leigh GarlandLincolnshireOnline bigotryI sympathise with your correspondent who found his Xbox online experience marred by people calling each other "bitch" etc. My experience in online gaming via the PC is that rap culture has created young people on both sides who are homophobic and try to give the impression they are black "gangstas" when most are probably middle-class white kids. Many will grow out of it, but others will become entrenched in patterns of misogyny and homophobia. It isn't quite what the internet promised us.Nick HarmanStreathamHost of problemsI have been with the same web host for the past five years. Last year, the company - Nicnames - was taken over by Iomart. Although the service is basically OK, there are a few niggles that have never been satisfactorily resolved. I decided to move to Fasthosts because I could take advantage of web hosting and broadband connection when my account expires.However, when I went to transfer my domains I found it would cost me &#163;49 per domain. Customer services said this was standard practice. This is outrageous. Have you heard of this problem before?Mike TurnerEtonWanadoo woesThanks to Danny Webb (Feedback, January 6) for highlighting the shortcomings of Wanadoo broadband. I work at a small company that signed up for Tiscali's Business Broadband and have had nothing but problems. The service first went down after only 24 hours but we are locked in to a minimum one year contract. I am looking to install broadband at home and wonder whether there are any providers who offer a decent service.Richard GregoryLondon
It is a curious fact that the disintegration  of communism as a  state-controlled force has coincided  with the resurgence of  communism - in its primeval  form - on the internet. The  sharing of knowledge without  financial gain was, of course, part  of the manifesto of the internet  pioneers before commercial interests  colonised the territory. But  it has been given a new impetus  in recent years by the growing success  of the open source movement,  in which people from all over the  world collaborate voluntarily to  produce projects that would otherwise  be done only by corporations.In recent months, as readers of  Online will be well aware, open  source has entered a new era with  the arrival of a browser (Firefox)  that is better and more secure than  Microsoft's Internet Explorer andan office suite (OpenOffice.org)  that is an impressive alternative to  Microsoft's Word, not to mention  Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia  written by volunteers that already  has more than a million entries.SourceForge, an Aladdin's cave  of open source material, boasts  almost 94,000 projects, including  communications, education, software  development and translations.  The jewel in the open source  crown is the Linux operating system,  a secure rival to Microsoft's  Windows. It works very well when  up and running though, despite  improvements, it is still not effortless  to install for non-techies.All this may just be the tip of  a rapidly expanding iceberg as  volunteers, often experts in their  own fields, combine to exchange  ideas and cooperate to produce  non-corporate solutions to theworld's problems. Open source -  using the word in its widest sense  - politics may have taken a knock  when Howard Dean failed to get  the Democratic nomination, but it  is thriving on the net and may one  day lead to an open source party  with a global manifesto. Open  source (see websites below),  has also spread to health care,  architecture, journalism, house  building and even poems.It remains to be seen whether  reaction to the tsunami catastrophe  gives a fresh impetus to the  movement, enabling it to solve  some endemic world problems.  The web community could, for instance,  pool its global expertise to  produce a basic, inexpensive living  unit for Africa that combines Western  technology with local needs  and materials that could easily be  assembled, after a short training programme, by local people.  Properly done, this could lead to a  Keynesian-style economic stimulus  to local areas. Why isn't there a nofrills  open source computer or mobile  phone or malaria pill to meet  the needs of developing countries?If open source reaches a critical  mass, we may need new economics  to measure it. When Microsoft  gives Explorer away, it is picked up  in the figures for economic growth  because the pay of the employees  who produce it is measured. But  Firefox, made without wages,  won't easily be picked up by any  of the three measures of GDP-  income, output and spending -  since it generates no income,  expenditure or weight. If the  open source movement takes  off, we could start getting  wealthier while economies are - officially - contracting.WeblinksHealthwww.openhealth.comSourceForgehttp://sourceforge.netPoemshttp://masl.to/?H5152563AOpen source browsergetfirefox.com
Patent openingIBM has pledged 500 of its patents to the open source movement, so they can be used free in any software that meets the Open Source Initiative's definition of open source software. IBM said it intends this pledge "to form the basis of an industry-wide 'patent commons'" to which other firms can contribute. The release coincided with the announcement that IBM had gained 3,248 US patents in the past year, and gained more than any other company for the 12th successive year. While the pledge was widely welcomed, open source advocate Florian Mueller, ofNosoftwarepatents.com, described it as "just diversionary tactics". IBM is thought to have about 40,000 patents, and makes more than $1bn a year from licensing its intellectual property.http://masl.to/?Z3D52163AWindows XP pulledMicrosoft is abandoning its Windows XP operating system for workstations based on Intel's Itanium 2 processors. Microsoft's decision is inevitable because there are no Itanium workstations available since Hewlett-Packard and Dell pulled the plugs on their product lines. The development team will now concentrate on bringing out Windows XP Professional x64 to support Intel and AMD 32-bit processors incorporating 64-bit extensions. Unlike Itanium, these chips offer backwards compatibility with existing x86 applications while offering 64-bit capabilities that can be incorporated in new software. Microsoft will continue to develop Windows for high-end servers based on Itanium.http://masl.to/?B2EC2353ADeep storageA holographic disc system offering up to 1.6 terabytes of storage on a 130mm diameter disc is being field tested by InPhase Technologies. The Tapestry HDS 5000 disc is written to using a split blue laser beam. The two beams are focused on to the disc from different angles, and where they cross, a small holographic image is recorded. This allows data to be stored throughout the medium to give a three dimensional storage field. InPhase hopes to release a write-once-read-many drive next year that will offer 200GB of data, equivalent to 14 hours of high density video.http://masl.to/?K35C2353ANational identityWork has begun on the first government-wide IT strategy, Ian Watmore, head of the Cabinet Office e-Government Unit said this week. The strategy, due to appear in autumn, will include   plans for a system of national identity numbers. In what Watmore described as a "convergent approach to identitification and authentication", the current mixture of different ID numbers will be reduced to either one or a handful, including the new national ID card number. The strategy will also contain plans for "citizen driven" e-government programmes. He also revealed plans to reduce the toll of government IT disasters by recruiting a team of "heavy hitter" project managers to be based centrally in government and to trouble-shoot projects going wrong.Personal protectionThe European Commission is updating its safeguard recommendations for transferring personal data to non-EU countries. By expanding the initial set of contractual clauses, published in June 2001, the commission hopes to offer a framework to detail the adequate protection demanded by the 1995 EU Data Protection Directive. The aim is to make the regulations easier to understand. Particular attention has been paid to the litigation, allocation of responsibilities and auditing requirements demanded by the directive. The work has been undertaken by a coalition of business associations led by the International Chamber of Commerce and the EU data protection authorities over the past three years and will be reviewed in 2008.http://masl.to/?D2CC2553AE-gov's hit paradeCouncil sites recorded 6m visitors, 20% of the UK internet users, in October, according to the Society of Information Technology Management (SocITM). A report based on early findings of the SocITM Insight service shows that job vacancies were the most popular targets. The job pages received more than four times the number of hits recorded for the second- placed -searches for planning application information. The success rate measured by 8,000 completed surveys shows that 73% of visitors found all or part of the information they required. Information gathering is proving more successful than online transactions.http://masl.to/?Z19C2353AWireless power3Com is offering an access point that supports voice, data and wireless networking capabilities using Power Over Ethernet (PoE) to supply the voltage. The OfficeConnect Wireless PoE Access Point offers 108 megabit per second over 802.11g Wi-Fi networks and is aimed at providing small-to-medium businesses a simple way of combining voice and data. PoE supplies power from a 3Com Baseline Switch over the Ethernet cabling rather than through a separate mains unit. This allows access points to be positioned where they are needed. The system also prioritises IP telephone calls to ensure high audio quality.http://masl.to/?A27C5653A
Almost overnight, Apple has transformed its family of iPod digital music players from mere style icons into a business plan to attack Microsoft's monopolistic hold on personal computer operating systems. The story so far is this: Apple's computers, despite attracting a cult following, have regularly lost market share to the extent that they now have under 3% while Microsoft's Windows is used in around 95% of all personal computers. Apple is responding by using the customer base built up as a result of the runaway success of its iPods (strengthened this week by a much cheaper version) to launch an inexpensive &#163;339 computer. The new model, weighing less than 3lbs and only two inches thick, lacks both a keyboard and a monitor.It is clearly aimed in the first instance at users of Windows who have iPods and who might be tempted to keep their existing monitor, mouse and keyboard but buy this cheap Mac when they upgrade to run their iPods better. The idea is that the Mac Mini will become a kind of Trojan horse, or at least a Trojan mouse, inside Microsoft's walled city. This strategy - which seems bound to spawn a new generation of PhD theses in business schools - could just work. The problem is that many users of Windows may still need it for work and those switching to Macs may face fresh software bills if they want to run Word or Office applications (which have captured 95% of the market for word processors and spreadsheets).But it is music downloads, not spreadsheets that are all the rage now and Steve Jobs, who returned to Apple a few years ago after parting company acrimoniously, is now king of the come-back kids. Apple is leading a revolution in which digital music downloaded from the internet is ousting singles and CDs as the medium of choice. In the last week of 2004 more digital downloads were sold through sites such as Apple iTunes music store and Napster than on the high street. If Steve Jobs can use iPods to start to dent Microsoft's monopoly then the computer business could start to become exciting again. And competition is something that Microsoft needs a lot more of.
What are the lessons for our use of IT from the tsunami disaster?Communication was rapid. People with relatives missing could post names and pictures on the internet. Those who were safe could contact families relatively quickly and some people received emails from strangers to say relatives had survived. On the bad side, the technology was abused by people setting up bogus charities. Relatively modest investment could provide an early warning system.How much do you use computer technology in day-to-day work?I email all the time and hardly a weekend   goes by without working on a talk in PowerPoint. I use it for data searching - bio informatics. I have a Dell desktop and a Toshiba laptop.How do you think 21st century technology will affect our lives?It will be pervasive and then invasive. Technology is already pervading people's lives: people on cell phones in the street, children wedded to their screens, cyberdating. Young people are interacting with the cyberworld rather than speaking to each other. Imagine when all inanimate objects interact with you and when your dealings with others are mostly via text or screen? "Invasive" is a bit further into the future when these devices are actually inside the body - when the lavatory and bathroom mirror will talk to you and monitor your state of health via implanted chips. Carbon and silicon begin to merge.What happens to privacy and individuality?If interaction is all via a screen, what need do you have for personal identity? You can choose how you appear to others and how they interact with you. Either the ego may disappear as you become a passive recipient of the cyberworld or be subsumed into a potentially dangerous, communal ego (think suicide bombers).Can technology be good?There is a lot of good and potential for good - technology could provide relief to the developing world and help prevent the disaffection that leads to fundamentalist terrorism. We live longer, with much more leisure. But what are we doing with it? Watching Big Brother With 21st-century computer technology, we could spend all our time watching each other watching each other. There is the potential for the destruction of individuality and human nature.Is it really so bad?Science and technology are neutral. What is bad is that we are sleepwalking into this. We are either rejecting technology or wholeheartedly buying into it, as young people are. We must think about what kind of future we want.How?We need to engage the public in real debate. Universities should open evenings and weekends, making science available to everyone. The private ego is the most precious thing we have and it depends on an appropriate environment. We can no longer take that environment for granted.&#183;Interviewed by Juliet RixVisit:www.rigb.org&#183;Susan Greenfield is author of Tomorrow's People - How 21st century technology is changing the way we think and feelSusan Greenfield's favouritesMedlinewww.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgiPradawww.prada.com
Auction site eBay has launched a private messaging service in a bid to reduce the impact of "phishing" attacks. The service, called My Messages, is available in the US and a similar service will be provided for UK users early this year. It was launched last month in an email to US subscribers that competed for attention with fake eBay emails sent by fraudsters.The move to private email is being considered by a number of organisations affected by "phishers" - fraudsters that fool customers into visiting bogus sites by sending them fake emails in a bid to harvest confidential password information.My Messages is a read-only inbox for subscribers logged into the eBay site. Effectively, it means that any emails that subscribers receive in their own inboxes are fakes and should be ignored. eBay says it will be used to give   new information on buying, selling and events on eBay. A spokesperson said subscribers can use the service secure in the knowledge that all messages come directly from eBay.Such a service could also benefit online banks. Sandra Quinn, a spokeswoman for the Association for Payment Clearing Services, said "such systems are under consideration but we need to ensure a uniform way of doing this. You have to remember that many people have more than one bank and we would not want different systems to cause added complications for customers."In fact, most online banks already have a simple private email system available to customers once they are logged on, but its effectiveness is limited due to the fact that many banks also send emails direct to customers' inboxes where necessary. HSBC, for example, has what it calls Secure E-messaging, which is mainly used   for marketing and some product information, but the bank confirmed that bank staff sometimes communicate with customers by email - to confirm meeting times, for example.While security experts agree that eBay's private email service should help to reduce the impact of phishing, many have concerns regarding its effectiveness.Andrew Lockhart, director of product marketing at US security firm Postini, said: "If I were a hacker and wanted to exploit this, I would immediately send a phishing email purporting to be about eBay's new private email service and lure users into giving up their personal information that way."Another concern is that if the move is followed by others, then the convenience of email will be reduced as subscribers will have to go to a series of bank and commerce sites to get their emails.Others point out that phishing attacks are increasingly making use of Trojans - software that sits on your PC tracking your keystrokes and then sending the details to fraudsters. Such software could be used to gain access to your private inbox on eBay, for example. Others suggest that private services such as My Messages will themselves become targets.Indeed, early signs suggest My Messages is open to spam attacks, and some subscribers are yet to be convinced it is the best approach. On one US forum, a subscriber said: "I've already received spam in my eBay message box. I bid on something and then the next day someone sent me a message saying he had similar items and would I like to bid on his auctions."Another subscriber expressed concern about the idea spreading to other services: "This may be a way to provide secure communications from eBay, but if everyone you do business with on the internet goes this route, then you will have to go from site to site just getting your messages. How time-consuming and inconvenient this method will be instead of checking your one email inbox instead. Maybe they should just find a universal way to use secure   communications and fix the email systems."But despite possible weaknesses, RSA Security believes eBay is setting the agenda. "eBay's move to provide increased security will put further pressure on other e-commerce sites to provide the same level of protection. Private email is certainly one way of protecting customers from phishing. Password protection is now the achilles heel of most systems," says Tim Pickard, area vice-president, international marketing, RSA Security.Phishing remains a significant threat to UK online banking. Last year, Apacs said that as a result of such fraud, &#163;4.5m had been refunded to 2,000 customers. Meanwhile, the Anti-Phishing Working Group (APWG) said that phishing attacks rose by a third last November. It found that 51 brands were attacked that month and that 1,500 phishing websites, mostly hosted in the US, were discovered. Taking down such sites took nearly a week on average, but some remained active for the month. The APWG says it is most concerned that the fraudsters are using Trojan keyloggers, which, it says, are "increasingly difficult to defend against and can snare even the most experienced internet users."
Living it upThe biggest news in the blogosphere this week was the takeover by SixApart, Movable Type's creator, of Danga, the company behind LiveJournal. Once the buyout was announced, SixApart's president, Mena Trott, used her blog to say the deal had been the "elephant in the room". LiveJournal founder Brad Fitzpatrick says he is "psyched" by the deal, and the firms promptly published a list of FAQs to quell speculation about plans.www.livejournal.comwww.sixapart.com/corner/http://masl.to/?H6FA2233ABig-hitting winnersThe start of each year marks the annual Bloggies award ceremony. Now in its fifth year, the competition retains an organic feel - and with prizes low key at best (the winner of best overall blog gets $20.05) there is little at stake but pride. It tends to be dominated by the same big-hitting US blogs, but you can vote for the winners when the shortlist for each category is published next week.http://2005.bloggies.comBill of progressTalking of contests, blog tracking firm Technorati launched a competition in November to see what gizmos developers could come up with using the firm's applications. The grand winner was Josh Tauberer's Govtrack, which lets you follow the progress of bills through the US Congress. It's a bit like a stateside version of.TheyWorkForYou.comand probably not that useful for non-American bloggers, but it shows the ways blog information can be harnessed. Runners-up included a fantastic system put together by UpMyStreet founder Stefan Magdalinski, which lets people comment on BBC Online articles.www.technorati.comwww.govtrack.ushttp://whitelabel.orgEnd of an eraAfter years as Silicon Valley's premier technology reporter, Dan Gillmor has finally caught the entrepreneurial bug. He has quit his highly regarded beat on the San Jose Mercury News to launch his own citizen journalism project. His final column fired a few shots at some of his long-standing bugbears - governments, corporates and the "copyright cartel" - but it didn't take long before he was back blogging - this time over at Typepad.http://masl.to/?W40B2333Ahttp://dangillmor.typepad.comUnder fireDuring the CES show last week, Bill Gates spoke to gadget weblog Gizmodo about subjects including Microsoft's blog project MSN Spaces. Gates said that as hosts, MSN would keep an eye on content because "there's always a tricky issue when you get into stolen material or pornography". It may seem unfair he is being mobbed by those who have latched on to this as illegal censorship when other weblog providers do much the same, but given that Gates told CNet the followers of Creative Commons were "modern-day sort of Communists", perhaps the reaction is understandable.http://masl.to/?G61B2533Ahttp://masl.to/?Q5CB1333Ahttp://masl.to/?B63B3533AHeavy hittersLegal blogs don't always make good reading, but even the dry ones are usually informative. Steve Wood, a lecturer at Liverpool John Moores University, has put together the UK Freedom of Information Act Blog, which tracks the latest news about the FOI legislation that came into force on January 1. Feed Me Legal, meanwhile, follows the interaction developing between weblogs and lawyers. Two of the web's heavy hitters are Blawg.org and Groklaw.http://foia.blogspot.comwww.feedmelegal.comhttp://blawg.orgwww.groklaw.netChip findsRecent publicity from the Yahoo! Finds of the Year has given more attention to the superb cafe tribute blog Egg, Bacon, Chips and Beans. Author Russell Davies has spent much time - and money - documenting the lovable high street caff, and says he is thinking of turning it into a community site to help cover more of the country. Meanwhile, the Classic Cafes website - which focuses on London's Italian-inspired vintage Formica caffs - has been turned into a book, while Peter Marshall's Cafe Ideal features photos of inspiring examples of the genre.www.eggbaconchipsandbeans.comwww.classiccafes.co.ukhttp://masl.to/?J19B2333A
emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say soPress releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
"LeapFrog Enterprises Inc on Wednesday announced the launch of its FLY 'pentop computer', a talking, computerized pen that can translate words into other languages, or help with math and spelling homework. LeapFrog said the product will give users audio feedback as they write and draw on special FLY paper," reportsReuters."For instance, the company said a user can draw a calculator, touch the handwritten digits and functions to perform an operation, and then hear the answers announced."LeapFrog said a group of children aged 8 to 13 helped to develop the product, and it will offer a range of applications for learning, communicating and playing."
"Zoom ahead to 2014, and here's what you might expect: computer devices embedded in your clothes, refrigerator, car and phone that transmit details about your life to vast databases available to government and corporate snoops. Technological advances will be stunning, yet we could experience a devastating cyber-attack and may not feel comfortable enough to vote online," reportsTechNewsWorld."Those are some of the predictions made by nearly 1,300 technology experts surveyed recently by Elon University and thePew Internet &amp; American Life Project."You can download a PDF file of the report from the Pew page above orhere.The Elon/Pew Imagining the Internet Predictions Database ishere, and there will be abookout this year.
Brilliant mobile game publisherGamelofthas just sent me details of its latest java title, New York Nights: Success in the City, due out in February. It's a sort of cut-down version of The Sims, aimed specifically at female gamers - you get 40 days to turn your character into a rich, successful and popular Manhattan socialite, a process that involves going to the gym, clubbing and attending interviews for dream jobs. Sounds like a great life, and I'm not even female! Hmm...*I honestly did try to think of a clever play on Sex in the City for this header, but gave up after five or six minutes...Okay, so developing a Sims wannabe is not particularly innovative, but thisison mobile phones, and as Gameloft is responsible for some of the best Java titles available, it should be a polished and enjoyable romp. Also, they sent me a great screenshot which looks like some kind of stats screen. At the top it says "Level up! Congratulations, you are now... Appreciated!" I've been waiting my whole life to read that.New York Nights: Success in the City is just a small step in the right direction for mobile gaming. I'd like to see something more complex, perhaps with a multiplayer element, or some location-based content, so the game knows where you are and what time it is, altering the content accordingly. It would also be amusing if it could raid your contacts list for character names. At least this way mobile social simulations could differentiate themselves from their PC and console cousins. It's got to the point where mobile titles desperately need to get a few unique selling points of their own.Hang on, haven't I been saying that for months?
A bookseller has become the first blogger in Britain to be sacked from his job because he kept an online diary in which he occasionally mentioned bad days at work and satirised his "sandal-wearing" boss.Joe Gordon, 37, worked for Waterstone's in Edinburgh for 11 years but says he was dismissed without warning for "gross misconduct" and "bringing the company into disrepute" through the comments he posted on his weblog.Published authors and some of the 5 million self-published bloggers around the globe said it was extraordinary that a company advertising itself as a bastion of freedom of speech had acted so swiftly to sack Mr Gordon, who mentions everything from the US elections to his home city of Edinburgh in thesatirical bloghe writes in his spare time.Mr Gordon, a senior bookseller who rarely mentioned work in his blog and did not directly identify his branch of Waterstone's, said he had offered to stop posting anything about his working life online when the company called a disciplinary meeting. According to his union, Waterstone's rejected his plea despite it not having any guidelines on whether its employees are allowed to keep weblogs."This wasn't a sustained attack," Mr Gordon told the Guardian. "I was not deliberately trying to harm the company. I was venting my spleen."This was moaning about not getting your birthday off or not getting on with your boss. I wasn't libelling anyone or giving away trade secrets."Mr Gordon joined Waterstone's while a student in 1993, a year after he began a satirical newsletter which evolved into his blog, called the Woolamaloo Gazette.Named after Monty Python's fictional University of Woolloomooloo, the blog contains the typical musings of online diarists across the world, linking to interesting websites and sounding off about current affairs and favourite films. There is much to please Waterstone's: most of the blog is devoted to extolling the virtues of reading and Mr Gordon's favourite science fiction and graphic novels.In the past two months, the bookseller, who helped set up a branch of Waterstone's, ran bookclubs and appeared on radio and TV for his company, mentioned his work twice.On one occasion, he ranted about his "sandal-wearing" manager he nicknamed "Evil Boss", which he said was a   caricature like the "Pointy Haired Boss" in the Dilbert cartoons. In another posting, Mr Gordon joked about "Bastardstone's".After he was suspended pending an investigation into his blog, he was called before a formal disciplinary meeting and sacked last week."The book trade can only exist with freedom of speech and information," he said last night. "It is a big personal blow to me to lose my job and it also has grave implications beyond that - for anybody who works for any company and blogs, which is thousands of people."The move has also alarmed the global internet community. Mr Gordon has received dozens of emails from other bloggers who have heard about his plight, with some pledging to boycott Waterstone's.While Boris Johnson wrote about his sacking from the Tory frontbench on his blog, it is believed to be the first time in Britain a blogger has been dismissed for what they published on the web.In the US, Ellen Simonetti was sacked from her job as a flight attendant for Delta Air Lines after her bosses saw pictures of her posing in her   uniform on her website, which recounted the adventures of an anonymous flight attendant who worked for "Anonymous Airline".Jessica Cutler, a 24-year-old secretary at a senator's office who wrote about selling sex to officials in Washington under the online name of Washingtonienne, was outed on the internet and sacked from her job.The literary world has also   spoken out against the sacking. Richard Morgan, the science fiction author, has written a letter of protest to Waterstone's."This bears comparison with taking disciplinary action based on private conversations overheard in a pub, and raises some disturbing issues of freedom of speech," he said."Waterstone's is, after all, a bookseller, whose stock in trade is the purveying of opinion, not all of it palatable to those concerned. The action that has been taken so far bears more resemblance to the behaviour of an American fast-food chain than a company who deal in intellectual freedoms and the concerns of a pluralist liberal society."Five years ago, an award-winning advertising campaign for Waterstone's focused on the importance of freedom of speech. One image featured a   burned book with the slogan: "Adolf Hitler, Pol Pot &amp; Mao Tse-Tung were right about one thing. The Power of Books."A spokeswoman for Waterstone's confirmed Mr Gordon had been sacked. "At this stage we can't comment on it," she said. "He has two opportunities to appeal after he receives his letter of dismissal through the post."The Retail Books Association, which represents 6,000 people working in the book trade, said it would help Mr Gordon appeal against his dismissal. If an appeal with a regional area manager is rejected, the blogger could take the matter to an employment tribunal.According to the RBA, Waterstone's should introduce guidelines determining what its employers can say online about their work."We are hopeful we can get him reinstated," said David Pickles, president of the RBA. "We feel it was heavy-handed and they have overreacted. The company has no guidelines to say 'please don't' &#91;write about work on a weblog&#93;. They shouldn't use a hammer to crack a nut."Some of the products they sell that are on open view to the public upset people far more. If MPs can slag each other off in parliament and the press, then surely Joe having a bad day and putting it down on the website should be allowed."As long as there is no one being discriminating or offensive, if it is just fun and opinion, then I can't see it being a problem. It's just how he felt on the day."Adventures with Evil BossMonday, Dec 13 2004On the way home from a dreadful day at work (I should really have phoned in sick but couldn't face the hassle this causes), I walked rather than catching the bus to get the blood flowing a little. Not far from my flat is a new bakery/pastry store, The Old Bakehouse, which also has an art gallery in the basement. Delicious pastries and artwork? Now how cool is that? Groovy.Tuesday, Nov 16Bad things recently. Having to pay Edinburgh bastard moneygrubbing council's tax, may they choke on every penny. Return to shift working as Evil Boss decrees even those now in stockroom must do late and early shifts, which is a waste of time for that post.Xmas working hours brought in early - first shift now starts at 7.30 bloody am, which is fucking ridiculous.Evil Boss fucking me off by refusing my requests for a day's holiday on the 31st of   December for my birthday and the first week of January off as I have taken for the last few years ...Evil Boss then has cheek to ask me to work one of the bloody bank holidays in the week he refused me off. Cheeky smegger. Said no.Noticing he has put me down for one of those days anyway, the sandal-wearing bastard. Words will be exchanged - if he gives me my birthday off I will do his bank holiday day. If not, he can kiss my magnificent Celtic ass, since it is voluntary.Monday Nov 8Yes, my day slaving for Bastardstone's was lightened (never an easy task on a Monday) by one of the avalanche of humour books that appear before Xmas, Far From &#91;Dull&#93; and Other Places by Dominic Greyer ...Amusing myself this week with Rich Hall's excellent biography of his redneck "uncle", Otis Lee Crenshaw: I Blame Society, and probably pissing everyone in our staffroom out by laughing my arse off.
Another day, another bunch of tripe in my inbox. And what's this? An unthinking computer games PR announcement sent to me, a woman, which features female coquettishness, promises of sexual flavours and the - gasp - possibility to be in the same room as Miss Playboy TV UK? Really, I'm thrilled. I can just taste the ogling of my testosterone-laden compatriots.If there's one thing that really gets my goat it's the complete lack of reconstruction in the marketing wheel of interactive entertainment. No thanks, I don't want to go watch scantily clad women mud wrestling to ring in the latest WWF game. No thanks, I don't want to have a meeting in a strip club. No thanks, I don't want to go to E3 and seebooth babesrepresenting games which, under other circumstances, might be promoted for their non-gendered imagination and fun.Whether it's appropriate to the product or not, would you male gamers think positively of a product that was promoted byChippendales?
Few technology companies inspire as much excitement, devotion or speculation as Apple Computer, maker of the bestselling iPod digital music player.The launch of Apple's retail store in London in November brought out thousands of fans and yesterday even more turned out to witness the company unveil its latest gizmo: a smaller iPod aimed at the mass market.The iPod Shuffle, which comes with the slogan "Life is random", was launched at the Macworld conference in San Francisco by Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, marking a shift by the company towards low-cost products."We wanted to make something that's even easier to use than the iPod," Mr Jobs told an enraptured audience at the Moscone conference centre, a short distance from the company's headquarters in Cupertino, California."Something happened in the iPod market - people discovered a new way to listen to   their music that became the most popular way to listen to your music: shuffle."Rather than selecting what tracks to listen to, users can select the shuffle setting on their machines and allow songs to be played from their collection randomly.After years of cultivating an   exclusive image by sticking to high prices, the success of the iPod - 4.5m of which sold over the 2004 holiday season - has driven Apple to reconsider its strategy and enter the lower-priced end of the technology market."We think it's going to bring tons of people into this new era of digital music," Mr Jobs said. "We're going to see some healthy progress in the next year."The screenless, palm-sized white unit - which will initially sell for between $99 (&#163;53) and $149 in the US - will be available in Europe shortly at a likely cost of around &#163;100. Based on inexpensive solid-state technology, the Shuffle has a smaller capacity than its larger cousins - storing between 100 and 250 songs - but could help the iPod explode in the same way the Sony Walkman did in the 80s by bringing down the price into the reach of mainstream consumers.At the conference most of the buzz seemed to be about the new iPod. "If I take my full-size iPod into school I have lots of hassle with wires and stuff," said   Hunter Siegel, 16, from Denver, Colorado."There's none of that with Shuffle. The only problem is that the battery life is only 12 hours - it could be better."Many focused on the fact that users could wear it like a pendant. Stacie Yamaki, from San Mateo, California, said: "It's so small you can even wear it. They're really neat."The company also confirmed speculation by launching a low-cost home computer aimed at converting PC users to the Macintosh platform.The tiny white MacMini, which is set to sell for $499 in the US, comes without a monitor, mouse or keyboard and is aimed at those looking to replace their existing machine but initial consumer enthusiasm yesterday seemed more muted than for the Shuffle.The MacMini will be seen as part of a long-term strategy to increase Apple's share of the home computing market. Apple hopes the iPod Shuffle and MacMini will boost its profits further after a bumper year in which company's revenues were up by 34%.
I've just spent the past hour or so buttonholing people wandering around Macexpo and asking them what they think of the new products.It shouldn't come as a surprise that most of them were overwhelmingly positive (after all, if you're not into Macintosh then why go to a Macintosh show?) but the greatest excitement seemed to surround the iPod Shuffle. Interestingly, a lot of them also focused on the fact that it played music but also doubled as a flash USB data storage drive.Hunter Siegel and his friend Kyle, two teenagers from Colorado, were particularly enthusiastic. "I love the way I can just hook it into my computer," said Kyle. Hunter - who proudly wore a 60GB iPod Photo on his hip - said the Shuffle was "incredible".The MacMini wasn't exciting people quite as much, but there was still a considerable throng trying to get a look at one. Daniel Jalkut, from San Francisco, was "impressed". "It's a redone Cube," he told me. "And it's exciting that you can get it for under $500."He also liked the Shuffle , pointing out that the price difference between a 1GB Shuffle ($149) and a traditional flash key of the same capacity (around $100-$120) was actually very small - but the iPod plays music too."That's how I rationalised buying my first iPod," he said, "By looking at it as hard disk storage that could also play music. And that's how I'm rationalising this one, too."Some took it all with a pinch of salt, however. One European Apple reseller who spoke to me was enthusiastic about the products, but knew that his days were numbered since the growing number of Apple stores would continue their strategy of undercutting his prices and driving his customers away.
Just been watchingChild of our Time, the child development series on the Beeb. Part of the show this week was dedicated to the effect of computer games on kids. And guess what - the outcome was pretty positive. Apparently children who play games are better at strategic thinking, problem solving and focussing, although not quite so good at going to bed on time. While there was something slightly unnerving about a four year old playing Halo, it was good to see a programme about videogames that was balanced. Yes, there was a mention of kiddies playing GTA, but it was combined with a reminder that it is an 18 game. Interesting stuff.
One of the most amusing moments, for me anyway, of the keynote was Steve Jobs talking about the Apple store in London.Not the store so much as the gasps and astonished sounds of astonished wonderment coming from the throng as Jobs showed them the Regent Street store - followed by, of course, spontaneous rapture when Steve said it was thebiggestApple store in the world and that it was already the second-biggest selling store they had. And isn't that just great?A point of interest: he also said Apple was planning to open new stores across the UK over the coming year.
