The high point of the sadly under-crowded UK games event calendar has been announced. Nottingham-based festivalGameCityis taking place between October 30 and November 1. No specific highlights have been revealed for its third year, but the organisers have added a new venue,Gatecrasher, hinting that the festival will be moving in an unexpected handbag house direction. I'm joking, I hope.Those left distinctly unimpressed by Play Live last month should start saving their pennies now. GameCity will be much more up your street, with previous events including keynotes from Keita Takahashi, David Braben and Alexey Pajitnov, as well as other fun get-togethers.You can keep up to date with GameCity at itsTwitterand/orFacebooksites, depending on your social networking facilitator of choice.
Monkey Island, Broken Sword,Longest Journey- all fantastic and still highly playable point and click adventure games. Sadly the genre has retreated over the last decade, with new titles rare, usually awful and generally confined to the unglamorous PC budget market. But things could be about to change.Sam and Max, the venerable adventure brand recently revived via an episodic series of PC downloads, iscoming to Wii. And this makes perfect sense. Brains not brawn are what point and click adventures require and clearly this is in tune with the Brain Training/family Wii audience. As the press release rightly says, "the game's easy-to-use interface is ideal for a broad consumer audience." Get the interface right - item manipulation could be a pain with the Wiimote - and the Wii could become the new home for point and click games. Could we be seeing the rebirth of a much-loved genre?
Get your tinfoil hats ready, people - there's something strange afoot.A reader has got in touch to point out the strangeness of today's UKGoogle Newsseems weirdly devoid of any mention of the Olympic torch protests that took place yesterday.You know, the ones that are on the front page of every newspaper, leading most of the TV and radio bulletins and prominently featured on news websites such asthe BBCandthe Guardian.As our tipster points out "You could be looking at Google's news page for the UK and not have any idea it was going on (though you would know Keith Allen thinks Diana's death wasn't an accident!)."The story actually features on thesports pages, and there is currently a mention of China in the third story on the World news page "China faces long-term risks from tough Tibet stance"from our very own site. So this might indicate an algorithmic cockup - perhaps all stories about the Olympics are deemed sports, not hard news.At best, it's a horrible inadequacy of Goog's news ranking system. At worst? Well, let's see what Google's explanation is first.Update:A Googler has got back to me saying that they're looking at the problem and working out whether there's something to be shifted around in the code. "It was indeed just algorithmic blip," he said in an email. "I'm told by the team that they happen occasionally, but when things go wrong they help us learn how to parse stories better in the future."
PC World's Harry McCracken was one of the people who enthused about Google Gears almost a year ago, but he's having second thoughts: seeThe Frustratingly Unfulfilled Promise of Google Gears. Clearly it hasn't taken off. He writes:If Google Gears is a bandwagon, in other words, it's one that almost nobody -- including the proprietors of most of Google's own services -- has jumped on yet...How come? Well, it's clear that even with the advent of tools and platforms such as Gears and Adobe Air, moving online apps into the offline world is just plain hard. No current Gears-enabled app is anything like its full-blooded self in offline form -- and since most of them are stripped-down compared to traditional desktop software even in their online versions, that means the offline ones are barebones at best.The fact that Google itself hasn't done that much with Gears-enabled applications yet -- at least in any form that it's willing to make public -- is probably the best evidence that doing great stuff with Gears is far from a cakewalk.I haven't enthused about Google gears because the idea of running a cut-down version of a cut-down online program seems more than somewhat pointless. An offline version of Gmail, for example, is a complete waste of time when you can already run Thunderbird. This handles your Gmail offline, is much more powerful, and free.Similarly I have zero interest in a Gears-enabled calendar or contacts book. All I want is for Google's online software to sync seamlessly and painlessly with the calendar and contacts book I already use on my PCs and/or mobile phones.If people were still using dumb terminals then giving them access to their mainframe data offline would be a great boon. That's one reason why personal computer sales started to take off 30 years ago. Gears needs to offer more than a rerun of 1977 to have much appeal today.
Charles Dunstone certainly has an eye for publicity. The head of Carphone Warehouse (and of its "free" broadband service TalkTalk) last weekthrew backthe request from the BPI, which represents the music industry, that TalkTalk begin implementing the "three strikes and you're out" policy. This is the policy mooted to tackle people who download (well, perhaps upload too; or upload only; it's not clear) copyrighted material they don't own.That's not surprising. The request from the BPI warns of "injunctions" if internet service providers (ISPs) don't implement the policy within two weeks, but the concept is still hopelessly unclear. Who will pay if a high-powered barrister finds his or her connection cut off due, say, to something a passing hacker using their open Wi-Fi or a security hole in their machine has allowed? Will it be the ISP or the BPI in the dock?Dunstone wants to avoid that; he'll let the BPI and the file-sharer slug it out, as they have been doing. Threats from the music business cut little ice with him. As a source close to TalkTalk noted to me last week, gazing at the BPI's letter, the ISP business is bigger than the music business in this country.Mad as hellAnd anyway, ISPs have rather more pressing matters on their hands. Their problem isn't people doing illegal stuff. It's the ones doing absolutely legal things — specifically, watching BBC programmes on the broadcaster'siPlayer. This is pouring red ink all over their accounts, and they're mad as hell about it.What's happening is this: people are going directly to the iPlayer page and watching programmes. They're not using the peer-to-peer version; too much hassle, and it uses up too much processing power. Here are thelatest figures, covering the first month of operation.ISPs noticed the difference at once. PlusNet blogged about the fact that by late February, iPlayer traffic wasalready making up 5% of its network traffic. That's one outlet.The reason why this scares ISPs is that most of them get their connectivity via BT's IPStream product, where they pay per gigabyte consumed. Streaming sites consume a lot more data than "normal" sites. Which means iPlayer whacks them hard in the streaming pocket. PlusNet estimated that it pushes up streaming costs from £17,200 per month to £51,700 per month — an increase from 6.1p/user to 18.3p/user.In other words, the cost per user trebled in the first month of the service.Blocked pipeAnd did your broadband bill go up? Nope. Telco 2.0commentedthat the iPlayer "blows up" the standard ISP model. IPStream comes with 155-megabit pipes. Watching iPlayer consumes about 500 kilobits per second. Get just300 peoplewatching iPlayer at once on an ISP and that's its IPStream pipe filled — and forget about anyone else.What to do? Some of the ISPs have suggested that the BBC might like to, you know,contributeto their neighbourhood fat pipe security watch; because it would be an awful thing if something, well,happenedto the data coming over on port 1935 (used for iPlayer data).The BBC's Ashley Highfield, head of future media and technology, last weekripostedthat ISPs should put their own houses in order, suggesting that "unlimited broadband" should mean just that, not "slowed down when you approach a limit" and that the use of "up to" should be banned in ads. He also offered to name and shame ISPs that tried to charge content providers. "If ISPs start charging content providers, the customer will not know which content will work well over their chosen ISP, and what content may have been throttled for non-payment of a levy."Sauce for the gooseWhich is fair enough. (Perhaps the ISPs might respond that if Highfield feels like telling them what to do, they've got some suggestions about fewer repeats and reality shows.)But there's a definite sense of what's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. ISPs are in one breath telling one content provider that they're just the conduit down which the data passes, so they don't want to get involved if the content provider thinks the data passing is bad. But on the other, the ISPs are annoyed by all this data coming from another content provider, and want it to contribute something to their costs.They can't both be right. I wonder which argument ISPs will deploy in the long run: working with the BPI, or paying for new 155-megabit lines from BT? Neither will come cheap.
Microsoft has given Yahoo three weeks to accept its $31 (&pound;15.50) a share takeover bid - or the software company will approach the internet firm's shareholders directly. Microsoft warned it may lower its price if it has to "go hostile" with its offer.The ultimatum, made in an email sent over the weekend by Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer to Yahoo's board of directors, capitalises on recent volatile conditions in the global stock market which have further depressed Yahoo's already poorly performing share price.The impact of the global credit crunch on stockmarkets has reduced the value of Microsoft's cash and shares bid from its original level of $44.6bn to about $42bn.Since Microsoft went public with its offer in February, Yahoo has been desperately trying to find a so-called white knight to merge with, to see off Microsoft's advances. It has held talks with News Corp and AOL but so far without success.The board of Yahoo, which was last night considering its options, is under intense pressure to accept the Microsoft offer, which at the time represented a premium of 62% to Yahoo's share price.Since the bid, Yahoo has continued to lose ground in the online advertising market to its bitter rival Google.
More than half of young people copy the songs on their hard drives to friends and even more swap CD copies, according to research that reveals the huge challenge home copying poses to a music industry already battling internet file-sharing.Three decades after cassette decks first allowed people to make free music tapes for friends, a study by the industry group British Music Rights suggests home copying remains just as ingrained in UK culture.BMR's chief executive, the singer Feargal Sharkey, said the research underlines the urgent need to adapt to consumers' attitudes or face serious repercussions for the next generation of musicians.The industry's anti-piracy efforts have largely focused on illegal online music swapping - with estimates suggesting only one in 20 digital downloads is paid for. But the online problem is potentially dwarfed by "offline copying", argues BMR. Its research, carried out by the University of Hertfordshire, suggests that, for 18-24-year-olds, home copying remains more popular than file sharing. Two-thirds of people it surveyed copy five CDs a month from friends.Overall, 95% of the 1,158 people surveyed had engaged in some form of copying, including taking the music contents of a friend's hard drive - 58% - and the more old-fashioned method of recording from the radio.BMR, which lobbies on behalf of composers, songwriters and music publishers, claims its research is the first academic study of its kind, and fills a hole in the industry's understanding of how people consume music.Former Undertones frontman Sharkey said the aim was not to lambast young music consumers but to create business models that fit their behaviour and tap into the unrelenting demand for music. He hopes the findings will provide impetus for change."For somebody who has spent 30 years in the music industry, you instinctively know this stuff is going on. But when you actually sit looking at your computer and see a number that says 95% of people are copying music at home, you suddenly go, 'Bloody hell'," he said.Many record label executives see the piracy problem getting worse before it gets better. The BMR research echoes other studies signalling that knowing something is illegal is no longer a deterrent. Well over half its respondents who know that copying music from a CD to a recordable disc is illegal do so anyway.But Sharkey believes a combination of education projects and new ways of providing music to consumers - for example, advertising-funded downloads - will change that."Ultimately it has to get better ... At some point musicians and songwriters have to make enough money out of it otherwise they stop doing it," he said."My concern is for the next generation of sexually frustrated, hormone-ridden 17-year-olds that are sitting in a bedroom about to possibly, and I hope, write something like Teenage Kicks," he said, referring to the Undertones song the late DJ John Peel made his anthem.The aspect of home copying that most worries BMR is the speed with which friends can now swap music, whether from one hard drive to another or on to MP3 players. Almost half the music in the average MP3 player collection comprises tracks that have not been paid for, the report says. People aged 18-24 keep around &pound;750-worth of unpaid-for music on their MP3 players.The study was carried out against the backdrop of government deliberations over how to introduce an exception in law so that people can legally copy music they have bought for private use.Currently, UK consumers are technically breaking the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 by copying tracks from CDs to their PC or digital player, or making an extra copy to play in the car.The Intellectual Property Office concludes consultations on changing the law tomorrow and BMR is submitting some of its research.The music industry says it accepts consumers should not be punished for shifting music from one format to another, but some are concerned an exception will increase the perception music can be freely copied with impunity.BMR has "no problem in principle" with the concept of changing the law. But Sharkey is urging the government to look to European law, which dictates that where a private copying-style exception is created there is also some sort of compensation for the creators and performers.Whatever the outcome, the prevalence of offline and online music copying shows the music industry has "a lot of big challenges it needs to face up to very quickly", said Sharkey.
Parents are far more likely to use the internet regularly than adults without children, according to research published today, and what they are doing online varies with the age of their offspring.The research, carried out in a dozen countries by the European Interactive Advertising Association (EIAA), reinforces the view that people with children stay at home more than other adults, but also shows that for parents the internet is a source of information and entertainment.Much of the recent debate about home internet usage has been over children spending increasing time online. Recent research from the Institute for Public Policy Research found that British children are in effect being "raised online".The regulator Ofcom found that millions of children circumvent age restrictions to log on to social networking websites which are intended for older users. Last month Dr Tanya Byron, who was appointed by Gordon Brown to investigate the impact of the digital world on children, called on the government and online industry to make cyberspace safer for young people.The EIAA's Digital Families report looks at how parents use the internet, sometimes on their own and sometimes with their children beside them at the keyboard. It found that almost three-quarters of adults who live with children log on to the internet every week, compared with 52% of childless adults. Digital parents spend an average of 11.6 hours a week online, up 36% since 2004, according to the EIAA.People with babies and infants are increasingly visiting websites dealing with health issues. Adults with children aged between five and nine focus on gaming websites, many seeking entertainment that their children can enjoy, while parents of teenagers are spending more time on price comparison websites.
Earlier this year, Iinterviewed Mitchell Bakerin London foran article in the Technology sectionof the Guardian. We chatted on too long, and because she was so interesting, I thought I'd put a rough transcript of the rest online forMozilla's 10th anniversaryon March 31. Ahem. But Mitchell said the idea was to celebrate the anniversary all year, so it's still timely....There's around 3,000 words on why Mozilla doesn't want to get into a death-spiral with Microsoft, and has more important things to do than chase market share, such as moving the whole web forward. Also, why Mozilla isn't using Firefox to plug Thunderbird more heavily, and why Firefox is finally taking a serious look at the mobile business.A bit of background: Mitchell Baker joined Netscape's legal department in 1994, and has been involved with the browser ever since: at Netscape, at AOL, and at Mozilla, which she helped set up. She became chief executive of Mozilla Corporation in 2005 -- a job she's just passed to her chief operating officer John Lilly -- and she's now chairman of both Mozilla Foundation and Mozilla Corporation.Knowing of her involvement with the legal side, I started by asking her why they'd created a new license for Firefox instead of using the GPL like, for example, Linux.MB: We released it under the Mozilla License, which I wrote between January and March in 1998. That was early. It was the first one I know to take a middle ground between the GPL and a do-whatever-you-want license [like BSD]. We were in the middle, and we were clear that it was an open source project that had to work with commercial organisations and their wholehearted involvement was required and therefore the GPL was a non-starter. That was definitely true then.JS: But you havepeople who take a more stringent view, who are essentially forking Firefox...MB: [Laughs] Yeah. We do. The question of trademark is pretty unsettled in the open source world. The trademark is important in a consumer product, but there are a few groups who feel it's a restriction they can't live with. If you have their assumptions, their conclusions make sense... it's just that their assumptions don't match the real world. We've had these horrendous emails come in with heartbreaking things like "I like Firefox but I don't really want to pay $30 a month for it. Will you stop charging my credit card?" So they've run into some fake site that puts Firefox out and charges for it. When you get a lot of those, trademark makes a lot more sense.JS: So what defence do you have?MB: Essentially trademarks. The name Firefox is not part of the open source licence, and that's why it's important to us. We have some trademark enforcement programs: when we find these sites, we try to shut them down.JS: But if you are a platform, which you are -- clearly people are building on Firefox, with extensions and so on -- then you need to sponsor that kind of outside activity. You can't do everything yourself.MB: Yes, we actually don't want to. We're still building client software, which is increasingly less common in the world today, and we are increasingly at the slower end of the software cycle, especially at scale. People who have only lived in the web world, it's hard for them to understand that we're dinosaurs but we're constrained by the nature of the software. Having add-ons is increasingly important.JS: Localisation is an important part of the software cycle, and Microsoft puts out dozens of languages, which is a commercial cost....MB: We have 40 or 50 groups around the world that not only create local versions, they do it as part of our development cycle. They're volunteers but they are dedicated to shipping professional software, and the deadlines can be brutal, but.... It's a lot of work to have an infrastructure that supports 50 or 60 languages on three platforms all QA'd and checked out on the same day. Most companies don't do it. We do. The majority of the people who use Firefox are not in the United States.JS: Shouldn't you be paying people to do that sort of work?MB: We're not hearing that message back from our community. We've actually been told by a number of open source projects that they feel we shouldn't inject any money back into the community, and that the danger of using money in a community of people who volunteer for other reasons is very high. Some of them won't do this at all because they worry about damaging their community.We spend a lot of time worrying about what they actually want -- do they want to be employees? What would help them keep doing it? A lot of people participate because they want their experience to be a certain way in their local language, and having money appear isn't what they want. We have a community program and a grant program that's very small. Figuring out how to spend money is not so clear.What we've gotten back is [things like] "we want a server to stash stuff", so we do those things. They can be loud, if the systems are inadequate. It's not always nice. So we spend most of our money on employing a core of people full time,JS: It didn't used to be a problem becauseRichard Stallman[founder of the Free Software Foundation] didn't have any money. You've got a very big bank balance! Relatively to open source project standards, not to Microsoft.MB: Yeah. There's a bunch of commercial entities in open source, a development structure. It's very funny in that we sit in the middle of many things. By open source standards we're giant, and we have an unbelievable amount of resources, but compared to the competition, we're a gnat. It's true in a lot of different ways, but finances are clearly one of them.Our expenses will go up, because we've hired people over the past year, but we do keep retained earnings in the bank to ensure our independence. A lot of people ask about the fact that we don't have a diversified revenue stream: it comes from Google, so what do you do about that? One of the things we do is keep a healthy bank account, so that if something should change, we have the resources to respond and figure out our next plan. Our community understands that. Google has been an extraordinary partner and does not try to tie the revenue relationship to what our product is, but I think everyone's pretty reassured that we're not living hand-to-mouth. If something were to go wrong, we have some savings.JS How are you getting on with Microsoft, because you did go to the Vista workshop, didn't you?MB: Yes we did. We did. [Pause.] We have some communications that's far better than in the Netscape era, and that's good. We are particularly eager not to have a repeat of the Netscape-Microsoft interaction of the 90s, which was: introduce a new feature and try to get as many developers as possible to use it, and have these competitive camps that ended up making life really difficult for web developers. It's hard enough just with the bugs that come up when you're all trying to implement the same specs. But we are not interested in having a features war. It's part of the reason that the web moves forward as slowly as it does. People think of us as very successful, but we're still 27% market share in Europe, so [most] people are using something else. So even when we have a good idea about the web, we need to implement it in a way that people using IE don't have a broken experience. It can be an experience that isn't as rich as ours, but it's still got to work.We are still in the position of designing our product and our progress on the web in a way that ... works on the competition. We spend a lot of time on that. We're trying to move the web forward without getting into ... a Netscape-Microsoft spiral of breaking it for each other.We spend a lot of time in standards bodies dedicated to interoperability. It's not glamorous and it's not the part of Firefox that the average consumer will see, but it's where the fundamental capabilities of the web will be decided. We are one of the prime voices for trying to build new features into the web platform, and those are discussions in which Microsoft is clearly involved. I'm not sure we see eye to eye on these things, as you might expect.We don't spend our days thinking about Microsoft, or trying to get revenge on Microsoft, or do whatever to Microsoft. That's a really negative and backward way, and motivates some people, but there are tens of thousands of people who are motivated by a more powerful vision of the internet. I don't personally want to get up every day and say "What can I do to Microsoft?" That's not how I want to live. We try to look forward, but of course, since Microsoft had 90% market share when we started, most of our users come from them, so there's no question that there's competition among products.JS: Didn't Microsoft just copy Netscape? It implemented Netscape's features....MB: Sometimes faster than Netscape could get them out in the final product!JS: They implemented standards and they implemented compatibility with what you were doing. It's just that after they won, they then took five years off ;-)MB: When there was some market pressure, yes. When the market pressure died away, they took five years off. IE7 has some standards stuff, but Firefox's standards compliance is just so much better... Some standards are complex and it takes a long hard slog to get them right, which we do. Firefox is still ahead. They do have difficult business problems to work through.JS; What's your current thinking on the whole suite issue, which was central to Netscape?MB: We think the market has spoken, and that when we separated the browser and made it a browser and not a suite launcher, and when we made it as lightweight a browser as we could, that's when people responded. We see that validated. There's a bunch of people around the world who don't use an email client, they use web mail. Or they don't have a home machine. I feel I need a desktop client but a number of people use webmail so... We remain interested. We've launched a sister company to do the mail and communications for the internet, to continue to develop Thunderbird, and to address the integration with webmail and what-else-besides-email.The web space is huge and takes 150% of the mental energy anyone ever has, so we've split it out to have separate people thinking constantly about it. There are some things I miss about the suite, but the suite project is still alive as SeaMonkey, and it has its own set of community developers who do a phenomenal amount of work. There's still four or five million people using the product, and that's pretty successful as an open source project. But we're trying to do something even more than an open source project, and that's move the internet -- including the commercial industry in it -- towards to a more open place that it's been. That requires being a vibrant open source project but also having industry impact.Identity and security are areas that we're just at the beginning of, and I think it will get worse as the amount of data goes up, and who if anyone could you rely on. Do you care about your privacy? This is an area we spend a lot of time thinking about, and we don't have an answer yet, but we're trying to figure out. Is there a place for the browser in this, and if so, what would it be? This is one of those areas where an answer derived from openness might be different than what a commercial organisation would come up with.JS: The browser is now the main target for malware, and practically every exploit now works through the browser...MB: AnOS exploitthat comes through the browser, yes. But the browser has to be semi-permeable: it's got to be open. If it's not open to everything you want, you aren't going to use it. Since the web is changing quickly, so there are new possibilities for exploits as time goes on. Even if we had the perfect piece of software today -- which of course is impossible -- who knows about tomorrow?JS: But you still have to make trade-offs for security reasons....MB: We've made some of those trade-offs. ActiveX was one of the things Microsoft added into the browser to make it easy to make system calls, which we did not implement, and it's the reason that many many intranets even today don't run Firefox well. Even some public parts of the internet would not work with Firefox. We suffered for many years because we would not implement it, but we knew we couldn't make it safe. We paid the price of incompatibility for a long time. That's hard to do.JS: And now we're entering the Flash age where the browser is just a vehicle for Adobe... Is that a fair comment?MB: I don't think the browser will become just a vehicle for Adobe. I think it's more likely that openness will come than that Flash will take over. Certainly Flash is almost ubiquitous, and there's an array of content that Flash is the answer for. Flash is one of those very useful, very closed, very proprietary non-weblike things that has great tools and serves a need very well. But in the long run, we see video as part of the web, and it should be handled just the way other html elements are. We spent a bunch of time working on video alt tags so that video can be treated as content for the browser. The biggest issue with that is probably patents. We know how to display video on the web but the patents and licensing fees surrounding some of those implementations are high. It's not a technology challenge.JS: You're now at 17 or 18% globally, so to get to 80%.... If you could grow at 1% [one percentage point] a month, that's only five years, isn't it? We could say 10 years, but these things have tipping points!MB: [Laughs] And we've been linear for a while.... First of all, we're not really aiming for that kind of market share. And we're able not to, because we're looking for revenue to sustain ourselves but not that hockey stick that investors typically need. We aim for enough market share to be able to move the industry towards openness, to be able to bring new things into the platform in an open way and have people be able to adopt them, enough market share to be able to speak with authority. We don't exactly know what that number is. In parts of Europe, we're there; worldwide, we're not so sure.I think if you tossed a number like 80% around even inside Mozilla, probably most people don't see that as a goal, and some people would start to worry, because that market share even in the hands of Mozilla might be high enough that if we behaved poorly, it would affect the industry in bad ways.We want to show why having openness is useful, so the market share enables us to move the industry towards a better place. and also to experiment with the new things that are coming on the web.JS: You may not have a choice! If you look at history -- WordStar, WordPerfect, Word, for example, were serial monopolies. Network effects are independent of other things.MB: That is possible. The one thing that's true of us is that we try to figure out what implementation means to users of the competitive product, and I suppose in a tipped market you don't spend much energy doing that; if you have 80% or 85% maybe you don't do that. But as a project, we have values and there's a core for who Mozilla acting as a tyrant is no better or only slightly better than somebody else acting as a tyrant.JS: Everyone has always used power in one market to build market share in allied markets. Clearly that's a driver for Microsoft. Advantage Mozilla, as long as you're not in the suite business!MB: That's a really interesting question, because a lot of people have been angry at us for not using Firefox to promote Thunderbird aggressively. Some of them say: "The money comes through Firefox, you only care about the money, you don't care about Thunderbird because it's not generating money." The answer is much more as you suggested. People come to Firefox because they want a browser, and cross-marketing may be good for your products but it may not be what the users want. Of the 150 million using Firefox and maybe 10m using Thunderbird: how much are you going to market a mail product to a bunch of users who don't want a mail product?So we made a decision: if people come to look for Firefox, that's what we give them. And yet that has caused some angst and anger and conspiracy theories and concern about financial corruption from Google because we don't do that. Certainly we're the same mission with the same goals, but we've specifically not done that.JS: So what's the next big thing?MB: I think data. And mobile: the full power of the web on that device.JS: You haven't been as active in the mobile space as Microsoft and Opera ... and more recently Apple, with the iPhone. You're not the leader on mobile!MB: Not yet! We think we'll be there. We've waited for a couple of reasons, one of which is that Firefox is hard, and the temptation to lose one's focus on the desktop is too easy. The other thing is that devices have reached the point where it makes sense for us now. We can see devices like the tablets that are shipping today are adequate for a real experience. We have an effort under way and the reception has been quite good. We think the next wave of mobile will be the right time and place for us.Opera has done a good job of working with handset manufactures and carriers and providing custom versions, but that's not Mozilla's DNA. We're not an enterprise software provider: our community doesn't work that way. If we had tried to do that we would have failed. But mobile is changing. You can imagine if you had something like the iPhone that was open, and you had more options and innovations, you could start to see the possibilities. We're pretty active now.JS: With Android?MB: I don't know so much with Android: we'll see. There's a bunch of people who want a Firefox experience, something that's looks and feels like Firefox, that's customisable and has extensions, that I can take things from my desktop and have a good combination between the two. That's really our focus.(ends)
Estonia is bracing itself for a repeat of the internet attacks which nearly brought its government to a halt last year, the Guardian has learned.Last April hackers bombarded the Estonia's hi-tech computer systems after a controversial decision to move a Soviet memorial. The cyberstrikes crippled many public services.With the anniversary of the attacks looming, senior officials are preparing for a repeat performance. One official said there had been many smaller attempts to hack into government systems during the last 12 months  but they were not as organised or successful as last year's attacks.A 20-year-old Estonian, Dmitri Galushkevich, has been arrested in relation to those attacks and was fined &pound;880. But Estonian sources say the strikes originated largely from across the country's eastern border.Those attacks prompted speculation that computer hacking was being widely used as a weapon, not just espionage. Such feelings were compounded when it emerged that another group of organised hackers - known by investigators as Titan Rain and believed to operate from inside China - had launched a series of strikes against western governments.The UK, US and Germany were among the countries affected by Titan Rain, leading Nato to make a fresh commitment to prioritise cyberdefence alongside other forms of national protection.The finalisation of the establishment of a centre for cyberdefence in Estonia's capital, Tallinn, was among the hi-tech defence plans discussed at last month's Nato summit in Bucharest."We have seen more of these attacks and we don't think this problem will disappear soon. Unless globally supported measures are taken, it can become a global problem," Suleyman Anil, the head of Nato's computer incident response centre in Brussels, said last month.
Something about stories about Wikipedia makes people feel an urge to write in. And so it proved when Seth Finkelstein analysed the latest.. Click through to read the full text of this week's letters and blogs (which we don't have room for inprint, sadly..)WIKIPEDIA?What has Wikipedia done to make Seth Finkelstein huff and puff so blimpishly? Jimmy Wales broke up with his girlfriend! Jimmy Wales spoke at a conference for money! Jimmy Wales claimed a meal on expenses! Who cares? Like millions of others, I use Wikipedia all the time and contribute when I get a chance. I don't see this as a 'quasi-mystical collective endeavour', just a bit of enlightened self interest. I can't understand why these mild acts of altruism cause pundits like Finkelstein such irritation. He characterises Wikipedia as 'a poorly-run bureaucracy with the group dynamics of a cult' whose processes are 'gamed' through 'romantic relationships'. Really? I'm obviously missing out: last week I edited articles on Balham and The Fun Lovin' Criminals and Adenoidectomy -- and *nothing happened*! The Imminent Demise Of Wikipedia is getting tedious. Sam Dutton, London&gt;&gt; a very important piece by the very smart Seth Finkelstein in the The Guardian about Wikipedia and Jimmy Wales... Jimbo calls Seth a "troll," the rest of us think Seth is brilliant. Go figure.calacanis.com&gt;&gt; Un article particulièrement virulent sur le fonctionnement interne de Wikipedia et de la fondation qui soutient ce projet. [A particularly virulent article about the inner workings of Wikipedia and the foundation which supports this project.]olivierdedoncker.com&gt;&gt; linked here not for Wikipedia-bashing but rather giggle potential when imagining how this might translate to various existing fandom wikis.cryptoxin.livejournal.com&gt;&gt; here's my favorite "quote" from Wikipedia: "Jimmy Wales was born to a Parisian whore named 'Babette' during the French Revolution" (this can be still found on Wikipedia — it's part of the archived edits for the "Jimmy Wales" entry). Good reason not to take Wikipedia too seriously…:adogsbreakfast.wordpress.comLOST ON SAFARI&gt;&gt; One of the charges leveled against John Lilly by the Mac fanbois is that he's afraid of losing money to Apple. The Guardian has it right: turn it back around on Apple and their quest for money.lucky13linux.wordpress.com/SHADOWY SUBNOTEBOOK?You wrote: "Dell is already selling 15-inch Vista notebook PCs at similar prices - the Vostro starts at £179 plus delivery and VAT" Delivery is £60! £270.32 total price! You've fallen for a Dell marketing ploy and are selling it to your readers. Kenneth Buckmaster, NewcastleFEELING BLUEHow is Bluetooth an "underrated technology" for sound when it gives a poorer sound quality than a cable and drains more battery power? I am also struggling to imagine any situation that would require my MP3 player to be in a different room to my speakers. Alastair Wright, LlanrwstIDEA GRABSAm I to take it that the "idea" that "nobody owns ideas" is the only "idea" that listbox has ever had? Otherwise he might not be so dismissive of the "concept" of intellectual property and its regulation. As for the "idea" that "ideas are not the province of government", what do you think they do all day? And what do you think they use to persuade us to vote for them and not the other guy? Root Cartwright, RadlettEXPLORER STANDSin your article "IE aims to embrace the web again" you say "Microsoft's next version of its browser will use web standards by default — but questions remain over other key technologies". Has anyone asked why, if Microsoft now supports web standards, the company hasn't in the past or doesn't now issue patches, in the same way it so regularly does to combat 'malicious code which may harm your computer', to bring previous versions of IE up to compliance? Simon Atyeo, London
The New York Times has a piece headlinedIn Web World of 24/7 Stress, Writers Blog Till They Drop. The basic idea is that blogs are the new sweatshops, which is explicit in the URL. Anyway:A growing work force of home-office laborers and entrepreneurs, armed with computers and smartphones and wired to the hilt, are toiling under great physical and emotional stress created by the around-the-clock Internet economy that demands a constant stream of news and comment.Um, yes, it's really tough: sooo much worse than making cheap rugs or sneakers, subsistence farming, or my previous job in the Uranium mines. I don't know if I could get through a day without the constant supplies of coffee and Bach cantatas.Netscape co-founder Marc Andreesson has the most amusing commentary on the story. He provides an alternative headline --Blogging Causes Death-- and then provides headlines for some follow-up stories, which include:Blogging Causes Herpes Bloggers Shorter than Normal People Hitler Probably Blogged Now Bloggers Aren't Even Wearing PajamasOf course, there are much worse stories about video gaming in papers such as theDaily Mail. But it's not going to get that bad. The New York Times and other papers already have their own blogs....
Dr Richard Clayton (Security Research, Computer Laboratory, University of Cambridge) went to see the Phorm system and haswritten a paper (PDF)about it.On his blog,he comments:Overall, I learnt nothing about the Phorm system that caused me to change my view that the system performs illegal interception as defined by s1 of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000.Phorm argue, with some justification, that their system does not permit them to identify individuals and that they meet and exceed all necessary Data Protection regulations -- producing a system that is superior to other advertising platforms that profile Internet users.Mayhap, but this is to mix up data protection and privacy.According to the BBC: "In response to Dr Clayton's report, a spokesperson for Phorm said: "Our technology complies with all the appropriate UK laws - and we've consulted a range of experts on this.""The Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (RIPA) was drafted in the earliest days of the internet. It is not designed to criminalise legitimate business activities - online targeted advertising is an accepted part of the internet landscape today."The Guardian has beencovering the Phorm storyin depth, withCharles Arthurposting at least eight items on this here blog.
CNet's Ina Fried kicked off a round of stupid Windows 7 stories in the press by running a blog post headlinedGates: Windows 7 may come 'in the next year'. Headlines never tell the whole story, of course, but this looks like an example of what's known as "misleading by omission". What Fried says in the story is:In response to a question about Windows Vista, Gates, speaking before the Inter-American Development Bank here, said: "Sometime in the next year or so we will have a new version."Anybody with a working brain will recognise that "sometime in the next year or so" is indeterminate, and does not mean "in the next year". However, a headline that saidGates: Windows 7 may come 'in the next year or so'perhaps wouldn't have attracted much interest.Fried's story also points out that:Less than 24 hours ago, a Microsoft representative told CNET News.com that the company expects to ship the successor to Vista roughly three years from Vista's January 2007 debut.In other words, Microsoft expects to ship Windows 7 -- roughly -- in 2010, which is absolutely not "in the next year" regardless of any casual comment from an outgoing employee, no matter how senior.Indeed, over the past 15 years or so, a good "rule of thumb" with Microsoft operating system announcements has been to add a year to initial estimates. So if Microsoft says 2010 and you assume 2011, you'll be right more often than wrong. Yes, it is possible that Steve Sinofsky -- the new guy from Office who has taken over Windows -- will actually get his first version out on time. He's good. But still, I'll believe it when it happens.Quite why anybody's bothered about Windows 7 at this stage remains a mystery. Nobody knows what it will be like, except that it's based on Vista, with all the same plumbing, not on XP.In fact, the one thing we can predict with some chance of success is that when it finally appears, there will be lots of people saying "Windows 7 is terrible: Microsoft should be forced to keep Vista going -- it's much better. Why change something that does all anyone needs?" After all, that's what some people said about Windows 95, Windows XP and Vista.....
They are calling it the broadband crunch. Experts have warned that the amount of data travelling across the internet is growing so fast that the network could become overloaded and grind to a virtual standstill.Online video is the biggest drain on the capacity of copper wires that were originally intended to carry only voice calls. But demand for YouTube, the BBC's iPlayer and other data-hungry internet TV services is surging. Last year it was claimed that YouTube consumed as much bandwidth in a year as the entire internet took up in 2000.The prospect of the web's arteries clogging is to be the subject of a debate, 'The End of the Internet?', at a technology conference in Boston this month while the industry trade press has published apocalyptic headlines: 'Is the internet doomed?' and 'Internet might collapse in 2010'. The worst-case scenario is not so much a crash as a global gridlock in which email, social networks and everything else on the internet slows to a crawl, with potentially devastating consequences for both government and business.'Our streets in cities like London or New York were designed for a certain amount of traffic,' said Larry Irving, co-chairman of the Internet Innovation Alliance, an industry group lobbying for universal broadband. 'There are times of the day when you can get around and times when there is congestion because the roads were not made big enough to cope with so much traffic. London does not shut down, it carries on, but everything slows down. The internet is something like that.'Roads are a useful way to imagine the internet, essentially an amalgam of privately built and owned interconnecting networks, all the more robust for not having a physical 'centre'. The quantity of data speeding up and down this network is hard to measure, but everyone agrees it is getting bigger by the day. According to Irving, estimates show US internet traffic increasing at more than 50 per cent a year, with capacity expanding at only about 40 per cent a year. The craze for video clips and full-length movies on the web comes at a price: a one-hour film can eat up one gigabyte, a hundred times more than an MP3 music file of around 10 megabytes. The traffic runs both ways because consumers, especially younger users, are keen to upload their own videos or share files through peer-to-peer networks, all of which adds to the strain.'Four million people are watching a Barack Obama video on the internet,' said Irving, who was Assistant Secretary of Commerce under President Bill Clinton. 'Twenty-six million people watched Desperate Housewives over a six-month period. The American version of The Office got seven million viewers on TV and 2.7m online. We're watching a slow but inexorable increase in the amount of time people are spending on online video. Whatever the number is today, that's the lowest it will ever be.'Bill Thompson, a technology commentator and visiting lecturer at City University, London, said: 'I think we're in trouble. If you've got kids on YouTube and parents on iPlayer and other things going on, it all starts to go very slow.'Some - but not all - analysts say that the problem is not in transmitting data from one city to another, or even from one side of the world to another, because these fibre and underground cable 'motorways' have huge capacity and are continuously gaining efficiency from new technology. Instead the biggest risk of a bottleneck is in the local 'country lanes': in the routers, switches and copper wires running from an exchange into the home over 'the last mile'.Scott Bradner, technology security officer at Harvard University, who is taking part in the 'End of the Internet?' debate, said: 'There are going to be some real crunches, some real hard times coming. It's because of the market and the business models which don't see a way of making a profit.'On both sides of the Atlantic there are complaints that a potential crunch is much less to do with technology than market economics. Internet service providers in Britain have been criticised for striving so hard to undercut each other on price that they are failing to invest in the infrastructure necessary to keep up with demand. Although BT is spending &pound;10bn on one of its biggest upgrades, turning its old networks into a single '21st-century network' launching at the end of this month, it will not address the issue of the 'last mile' copper into the home. Replacing this with high-speed fibre optics would cost an estimated &pound;20bn. Thompson believes that, because such investment is against short-term commercial interests, the government should intervene to provide fibre to the home in the spirit of a public utility.Anthony Walker, chief executive of Britain's Broadband Stakeholder Group, said: 'There are big investment challenges ahead. Replacing copper with fibre optic, taking it closer to the consumer, we're talking about billions of pounds over almost a decade. It's some way off but it's being talked about. It may mean there are new, faster, high-capacity services that consumers are willing to pay for. I don't think there's any cause to panic, but at the same time we shouldn't be complacent.'Mike Bartlett, a spokesman for BT, said: 'There will not be a fibre-to-the-home network in the next 20 years. It would be a massive call to say, "Let's fibre up the nation." It would take many years, cost billions of pounds, involve digging up all the roads and we don't know if people really want it. As a public company we can't go to our shareholders and say we need to spend the equivalent of our market cap value on this. But we are very much committed to providing fibre at the new housing at Ebbsfleet Valley [in Kent] from August, which will be a really useful test bed for the whole industry.'An independent study on Britain's broadband infrastructure led by Francisco Caio, the former chief executive of Cable &amp; Wireless, is due to report to the Chancellor, Alistair Darling, in the autumn. It is unlikely to find a solution which would allow Britain to catch up with Japan, which has the world's fastest connections, delivering more data at a lower price than any other country. The technology has enabled broadcast-quality full-screen TV, high-definition teleconferencing, mass working from home, and 'telemedicine' in which doctors can diagnose conditions from far away. Japan benefits from new wiring installed in the aftermath of the Second World War.Not even pessimists believe the internet will crash and burn. An overload is likely to result in consequences that are sluggish rather than spectacular. Irving observed: 'We're not saying it's going meltdown, but you could have latency. It'll be like trying to get from point A to point B in London on a Wednesday afternoon. Good luck.'Information meltdown&#183;Electricity reached one quarter of Americans 46 years after its introduction. Telephones took 35 years and televisions 26 years. In just six years, broadband reached 25 per cent penetration.Internet Innovation Alliance&#183;In 2007 the digital universe equalled 281bn gigabytes of data, or about 45gb for every person on Earth. It is the first time that the overall size of digital content went beyond the total storage capacity. By 2011 only one half of the digital world will be stored, with the rest in transit.International Data Corporation&#183;Downloading a single half-hour TV show on the web consumes more bandwidth than does receiving 200 emails a day for a full year. A single high-definition movie consumes more bandwidth than does the downloading of 35,000 web pages; it's the equivalent of downloading 2,300 songs over Apple's iTunes web site. Today's networks simply aren't scaled for that.Craig Moffett of Bernstein Research, testimony to Congress&#183;An 'exabyte' is 1.074 billion gigabytes. Two exabytes equal the total volume of information generated in 1999. The internet currently handles one exabyte of data every hour.Internet Innovation Alliance&#183;It took two centuries to fill the shelves of the Library of Congress with more than 57 million manuscripts, 29 million books and periodicals, 12 million photographs, and more. Now, the world generates an equivalent amount of digital information nearly 100 times each day.Internet Innovation Alliance
Microsoft has sentanother letterto Yahoo's board of directors to give them a wake-up call. It begins:It has now been more than two months since we made our proposal to acquire Yahoo! at a 62% premium to its closing price on January 31, 2008, the day prior to our announcement. Our goal in making such a generous offer was to create the basis for a speedy and ultimately friendly transaction. Despite this, the pace of the last two months has been anything but speedy.In case Yahoo's board members don't get off their behinds, Microsoft says:If we have not concluded an agreement within the next three weeks, we will be compelled to take our case directly to your shareholders, including the initiation of a proxy contest to elect an alternative slate of directors for the Yahoo! board. The substantial premium reflected in our initial proposal anticipated a friendly transaction with you. If we are forced to take an offer directly to your shareholders, that action will have an undesirable impact on the value of your company from our perspective which will be reflected in the terms of our proposal.So, what is the chance of a substantial number of Yahoo shareholders saying to themselves: "Yahoo's board is going to turn the company around and the shares will go up much higher than Microsoft's offer. I'm going to hang on and back my board"?On Friday, the market reaction was thatYahoo's shares fellon the prospect that Microsoft might walk away. Rather than being able to increase the share price, Yahoo's directors are probably looking at a substantial fall....Update 1: Reuters now has a substantial story,Microsoft CEO sets deadline for Yahoo deal, which says: "It's part of a highly choreographed dance and parallels the take-it-or-leave-it bidding strategy Oracle Corp has used to win a string of deals to consolidate the software industry."Update 2:Yahoo has repliedwith a prompt letter that says, more or less, either give us more money or take a hike. One part says:Our Board's view of your proposal has not changed. We continue to believe that your proposal is not in the best interests of Yahoo! and our stockholders. Contrary to statements in your letter, stockholders representing a significant portion of our outstanding shares have indicated to us that your proposal substantially undervalues Yahoo!. Furthermore, as a result of the decrease in your own stock price, the value of your proposal today is significantly lower than it was when you made your initial proposal.Yahoo also points out that there could be anti-trust problems; "Any transaction between us would result in a thorough regulatory review in multiple jurisdictions."
Reuters has reported onJapan's tomb with a view. Well, the tomb includes aQRbarcode square acting as a Kuyou no Mado (Memorial Service Window). According to theprint versionof the story:Tombstone makerIshinokoesays the QR codes, which users scan to link with everything in Japan from buses to bookings, are a new way to visit its "memorial service window" grave sites that contain more than the cremated ashes of the deceased."We already have a patent and should get another this month, but we hope this service is not just for our customers, but the entire funeral industry," said Yoshitsugu Fukuzawa, head of Ishinokoe, which launched sales this month.TheC Scout Japantrendspotting site, which has photos, says:Contents can include pictures, video, family information, and other items. While using a QR code for this may actually seem a bit outdated in a country of burgeoning RFID technology, they are simple and will likely be readable by generations of future devices. The sample QR code below is readable if you have a capable phone, but you can also check it out with thislink.
Companies struggle as Safari pops up on networksis the headline of a story from IDG News, which contains the amusing factoid that: "On Friday, patch management vendor Shavlik Technologies announced that it had updated its Shavlik NetChk Protect software to detect and remove Safari."Apple, you mayrecall, tried to deceive users into installing its browser by presenting it as a "default update" when it wasn't already installed. This has given companies problems. Cody Wilson, a network administrator with Soy Capital Bank and Trust in Decatur, Illinois, told IDG: "I went into work the next day and I scanned my network, and my inventory software said I have Safari on 30 PCs," he said."This is not good; this is a security risk," he said. "We're a bank." Wilson said it has taken him the better part of a week to remove Safari from his network and prevent it from being reinstalled.On the other hand, you have to wonder (a) why a bank's computers have iTunes (or the famously insecureQuickTime) installed in the first place; and (b) why these users were enabled to install downloads. Don't banks normally lock down their PCs?
Write a thing about the best videogames of all time, the Guardian commands me. And I obey. But space is short, so I've done it in instalments (part two next week). Bear in mind that these aren't the best videogames of all time, just a personal and possibly perverse selection, listed in order of release, not merit. Anyway: insert coin. Hit start button.Asteroids (1979, Atari)Of all the early monochrome classics, Asteroids was my favourite, because it's truly bleak. Rather than aliens or robots, your enemies are unthinking lumps of rock that are hurtling through space. Twirling somewhere in the middle of this cluttered void is your tiny, heartbreakingly fragile spaceship, armed only with a feeble electric peashooter. If Asteroids has a message, it's this: you are insignificant, the universe doesn't care about you, and you are definitely going to die. Brilliant.Pac-Man (1980, Namco)Pac-Man himself may be an ultimately unknowable yellow disc, but his spectral pursuers had proper googly eyes and everything. And nicknames. And blood types. OK, not blood types. But this was one of the first games with identifiable characters, which goes a long way to explaining its success.3D Deathchase (1983, Micromega)A Spectrum game in which all you had to do was avoid trees and shoot fellow motorcyclists. Simple, speedy pseudo-3D graphics meant suddenly you were starring in the bike section from Return Of The Jedi. Yes. You really bloody were.Stop The Express (1983, Hudson Soft)A rare Japanese Spectrum game, this was an insanely breakneck combat/platformer in which you had to scamper along the top of a runaway train, fighting assassins and dodging obstacles. Best of all, when you beat it, your sole reward was a caption reading "Congraturation! You sucsess!"Elite (1984, Acornsoft)Most home computer games were simplistic, flick-screen affairs in which you played a fat mayor jumping over a nettle or something like that. Then Elite came along and took the piss. A groundbreaking 3D space combat-and-trading simulator that managed to convince me my computer could, when programmed correctly, house an entire alternative universe.Jet Set Willy (1984, Software Projects)Back in the day, you needed only a single programmer to create a game - and since said programmers were often geeked-out stoners, said games were often weird. Jet Set Willy's blend of flying pigs, in-jokes, Python and Freak Brothers references encapsulates the homebrew quirkiness of the cottage industry software scene of the early 80s. We shall not see their like again.The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy (1984, Infocom)Still one of the only games to contain proper, structured jokes, H2G2 was a text adventure co-written by Douglas Adams himself. It was also the first postmodern game, since it knew it was a game, and also knew you knew, so sometimes it would refer to you as Arthur Dent (star of the game) and other times simply as you (the player controlling him) - whichever seemed funniest at the time.The Sentinel (1986, Firebird)You played a nomadic consciousness that had to absorb parts of the 3D landscape, then transfer itself inside a series of motionless avatars in order to travel - your goal being to ascend the highest peak before the ominous Sentinel stared you to death with his huge, cycloptic eye. In other words, it makes sense only when you play it.Kato Chan And Ken Chan (1988, Hudson Soft)An import-only title for the PC Engine (a tiny Japanese console), Chan And Chan was a below-average platform game - but one that revolved, startlingly, around shitting, farting and pissing. The point at which I first grasped the illicit joy of off-kilter Japanese imports. (Also for the PC Engine: Toilet Kids, a shoot-em-up in which you fired turds at flying penises.)Tetris (1989)There can't be a human being on Earth who doesn't love Tetris. Perpetual order from perpetual chaos. The most inherently satisfying video game ever created.To be continued next week ...Stephen Fry is away
The traditional formula for satire is to take all that is sick, stupid and wrong and hold it up to ridicule by making an extreme or ludicrous parody of it. Thankfully, in mocking US news, The Onion News Network (ONN), hasn't had to show anything much more extreme or ludicrous than is already in the real thing. As the video output of the American satirical newspaper's websitetheonion.com, their spoof of US rolling news broadcasting is all the more effective for merely holding up a very slightly warped mirror to it, and never obviously playing for laughs."Our biggest inspiration was not other comedy," says ONN producer Will Graham, "it was the news itself. The sheer ridiculousness of it is tailor-made for humour."ONN certainly paints a pretty vulgar picture: from the fake bonhomie and self-promotion of the presenters, to the over-dramatisation of stories; the wood-for-the-trees missing of the real point; the fatuous debates and trivial celebrity obsession; the flagrant propaganda; pseudo-concern for social "issues"; and the airtime-filling fluff that ends up on our screens, no shade of bullshit is left untouched.ONN has been broadcasting on the web since last year, and if they wanted proof that their output isn't much more wild and wacky than the real thing, they got it in January when many thousands on the internet mistook one of their spoof stories for the real deal.The story concerned, headlined "Child Bankrupts Make-A-Wish Foundation With Wish For Unlimited Wishes", was made all the more plausible by being featured on Today Now, ONN's creepily realistic morning show. Richard Madeley-esque presenter Jim Haggerty broke off from his usual chirpy banter with fragrant co-host Tracy Gill to introduce the story of Chad Carter, an eight-year-old leukemia victim from Boston ("I wish I were kidding you but I am not, no!"), and his demands for an F-14 Tomcat, four tons of candy and his face carved on Mount Rushmore, among other things.The story eventually had to be exposed as fictional on the internet urban myth websiteSnopes.com, but anyone unfamiliar with ONN's parallel universe could have been forgiven for taking a while to cotton on.Parody is hardly an untapped source of comedic potential - it's the only reason French and Saunders are still on TV - but ONN's material is state of that particular art because their productions are almost indistinguishable from the programmes they're imitating. The closest thing in recent years was The Day Today, the 1994 BBC production starring Chris Morris, Steve Coogan et al, a comparison that hasn't eluded ONN's makers. "I've heard it mentioned a few times," admits ONN producer Will Graham, "but I haven't actually seen that show."Yet even Morris and co's hyper-real copy of wildly self-important news formats looked like it was wearing a revolving bow tie and red nose in comparison to ONN's super-straight approach to pisstaking. Of course, the danger with such accurate imitations is that they're clever at the expense of being funny, and raise a knowing smile rather than a laugh. Fortunately ONN doesn't just ape the format but uses it as a vehicle for great gags, benefitting from similarly top-quality material to that which has kept The Onion paper and website churning out nonsense news week in, week out since 1988 (or 1756 if you believe the claims of their "archive" material).The attention to detail goes much further than the CNN-style logo, authentic-looking studio sets and breaking news items scrolling along the bottom of the screen ("iTunes music store unveiled a virtual indignant store clerk today; the animated avatar digitally scoffs, rolls eyes at users' download selections"). A team of 15 writers and producers work on the channels, and each script goes through around 20 revisions before it makes it to the screen. They've also taken an unusual approach to casting."I think the acting is one reason why our comedy is perhaps a little different to some of the other news based programmes or online humour," reckons ONN's head writer Carol Kolb. "We don't use many comedians - we'll use straight actors."And what actors they are. It takes skill to deliver a news story discussing the importance of "bullshit" in the current election campaign as if it were a CBS anchor quizzing a correspondent about the stock market.Indeed, as it turns out, they might not even be acting all that much."Some of our news anchors have actually done the job for real," says Graham. "In fact, we just lost one, because they got stolen by CNN! We took it as a compliment."Not that it's been an easy transition from the page to the screen. Although originally a newspaper founded in 1988 in Madison, Wisconsin by two university students, it really began to get noticed when it went online in 1996, and although there have been plans since 2003 to make The Onion Movie, the project languished in development hell for five years. Several writers walked away from the project, and although it is finally now ready for a DVD-only release, the trailer suggests it is considerably broader and more traditional than what's online at ONN. The rolling nonsense news of ONN dates back to April of last year. What took them so long?"We didn't want to just do something for the sake of it," admits Graham. "We had to do something that excited us. Then we hit on the idea of this massive, sinister 24-hour news network that was more serious than CNN and more bombastic than Fox, and people really wanted to make it happen."It's clearly been worth the wait. They now boast over a million views a week which begs the question: forget movies, couldn't they turn all this into a really quite splendid TV programme, so we didn't all have to watch it on a four-inch screen on our computers?"At the moment the internet is great for us," admits Kolb, "because we get to do exactly what we want and there are so many jokes we could never do on most TV channels. It's certainly a possibility but we'd have to be really selective about where we were broadcast to make sure we could do what we want."As we write, ONN is stepping up its election coverage, War For The White House, with stories like "As Obese Population Rises, More Candidates Courting The Fat Vote", looking at Hilary Clinton's numerous eating-based photo opportunities. There are also plans for a new show which will delve into The Onion's extensive archives, just as the newspaper did with its print collection Our Dumb Century ("World's Largest Metaphor Hits Iceberg" was their memorable headline for the Titanic sinking in 1912).The Chad Carter, Make-A-Wish story is unlikely to be the last to cause ripples beyond ONN's own fictional world. The Onion newspaper has never shied away from controversial topics; in fact its stories about 9/11 (eg "Hijackers Surprised To Find Selves In Hell") were all the funnier for tackling a taboo subject. ONN has touched on domestic violence, paedophilia and race issues ("Black Man Asks Country For Change" was one take on Barack Obama's campaign). So, is there any limit to what topics they'll cover?The best answer to that oft-asked question was given by Onion president Sean Mills in an interview with Wikinews last year."If other fake news sources, like Fox News, are going after it then we have to respond. It's just the responsibility we have."Could he be suggesting that the veracity of stories on "real" news channels is in some way unreliable? Perish the very thought...Five great ONN moments1. Evangeline Lily wins Best Wet T-shirt Fight Scene at Strong Women In TV awardsToday Now's Tracy Gill strikes a blow for the sisterhood as she reports on prestigious gongs including Being Philosophical While Wearing A Revealing Nightgown: "It was a great night for women and the men who write for them."2. Report: American schools trail behind world in aptitude of child soldiersThe kind of scare story in which ONN specialises. A disturbing survey reveals the average Sudanese child can field strip a Type 81 assault rifle by the time he's in sixth grade, whereas an American child couldn't do the same until he enlisted in the military at age 17 and a half.3. China celebrates its status as world's number one air polluterHighlights include footage of a 100 Widow Smog Dance and the Beijing Young People's Vocal Group performing Acid Rain On My Window. "The sky over China is now a rainbow of grace reflecting all the colours of our prosperity," enthuses Chinese ambassador Hsu Lan-Ning.4. Is the government spying on paranoid schizophrenics enough?The regular debate show In The Know tackles another pressing topic. In this case there is widespread consensus: "We need to hide cameras everywhere they go, in their homes, in the street, in the eyes of convenience stores where they shop..."5. Breaking News: A series of concentric circles emanating from glowing red dotOne of ONN's more Day Today-esque moments. Michael Bannon asks a correspondent: "Is there a chance that these various coloured bands could trigger rows of human being shapes like it did back in 2004?"
Google is planning to allow any online advertiser to bid for trademarked names on its British and Irish search sites, in a move that has been attacked by digital media agencies as a cynical attempt to raise revenues that could confuse consumers.Google, which removed trademark protection from its North American sites four years ago, said it wants to give users "greater choices to help them make informed decisions" and believes the decision is legal.But Gavin Sinden, digital strategy director at digital marketing agency Equi Media, whose clients include eSure and FTSE 100 software company Sage, pointed out that the change comes as Google's paid advertising clicks have, for the first time ever, started to show a decline."A more cynical interpretation begins to emerge," he said. "This seems like an attempt by Google to increase bid values and volume of bids on a huge range of terms. By introducing this policy you could type in a search for a particular brand and be confronted with nothing but a sea of competitors."Lewis Lenssen, managing director of search marketing and web development agency Netizen, added that "Google is allowing companies to try to intercept online customers who are hunting for a particular brand".The Google change affects the key words upon which advertisers bid. When a Google user searches for the word it generates adverts, termed sponsored links, which appear alongside the search results. Until May, however, only trademark owners can bid for their trademarks as keywords.
According toReuters: "Microsoft Corp is evaluating its bid for Yahoo Inc because the Internet company may have lost value since Microsoft made its offer, people familiar with the matter said on Friday."The news, first reported by Reuters, sent Yahoo shares down more than 5 percent in extended trade. The sources said Yahoo has lost some key personnel, making the company less valuable, while generous severance packages it handed out to executives and full-time employees in the case of a takeover have made it more expensive.Yahoo and Microsoft executives held a second round of talks, apparently getting nowhere. Yahoo rejected the original bid saying the company was worth more, while Microsoft considers it made a fair offer and that Yahoo is diminishing in value.It's also clear that nobody else -- not News Corp, not AOL, not Google -- is going to come with another offer, let alone a better offer.CNBC comments:Some might argue that Yahoo ought to be motivated by the same kind of desperation [as Bear Stearns] and the foot-dragging the company has shown over the past eight weeks is as stunning as it is disappointing. Some insiders at the company tell me Yahoo's CEO Jerry Yang -- and the board members who support him -- is letting personal animosity and hubris cloud his judgment from seeing the obvious. Microsoft isn't merely a good option, or even the best option, some analysts say. It's the only option. With executives walking out the door, a stock going nowhere, and Google certainly not sitting still, Yang's delay is only delaying the inevitable. And reducing Yahoo's value along the way.Yahoo's shareholders will probably be supportive if they think Yahoo's strategy is going to fetch a higher price. But they could turn against the management if they think it's heading towards a lower one. Microsoft hinting at a lower price therefore looks calculated to increase the pressure on Yahoo, and create a situation where even a slightly higher offer will be enough to seal the deal. If that's the way Ballmer wants to play it.The question is: what's the benefit to Microsoft of saving Yang's face?
What's a good alternative to an iPod? I don't care about video, but I do want at least 30GB of storage and easy file transfer from a Windows PC.There are many options for those who don't want to further line Steve Jobs's pockets - but you're unlikely to strike a bargain (Apple sells so many iPods that it can drive its prices down lower than its rivals). Still, if it's power you're looking for, I'd recommend Archos - the 605 model has 160GB of  space for around &pound;250. A 30GB model is around &pound;170. Or try Creative's Zen series, which has flowered of late, although it's rather pricey (&pound;250 for a 32GB model).My Sony Handycam records on to mini DVDs, but my iMac has a side-loading DVD drive, which means I can't put the discs into the computer. How can I edit my discs?You could damage your machine if you tried to push an irregular-sized DVD into the slot, so your best bet may well be an external DVD drive with a tray-loading mechanism: Maplin stocks a reliable LG number for around &pound;70. Also, remember that it always pays carefully to check camcorders before you buy: many models don't play nicely with Apple computers.Email your problems to:gadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
Buy a Mazda2 and say farewell for ever to in-car magazine storage misery. Never again need your favoured glossy reading matter end up in the footwell where people can tread on it, or between the passenger seat and handbrake, where you can't reach it, except by fishing around with a screwdriver and a Biro.On the contrary, thanks to what is nothing less than a revolution in glove box technology by those ultra-smart people at Mazda, you can drive with an unburdened mind, knowing that your copy of World Of Interiors/Boat &amp; Boatman/Fiesta (delete as applicable) is nice and snug in the unique magazine rack cunningly moulded into the Mazda2's glove box lid, and accessible even when that lid is closed.No more, then, is an uncreased edition of Business Traveller the exclusive province of big-waged executives arriving from Heathrow in the back of expensive town cars that have those elasticated leather pockets attached to the back of the driver's seat. Now it's open to anyone who can afford one of these agile, competitively priced and altogether rather cool-looking Japanese super-minis - one of the year's great, democratic breakthroughs.Something else in favour of the new Mazda2: it's smaller and lighter than the outgoing model. Now, this just doesn't happen. Cars get fatter and heavier. It's what they do. In 10 years, a hatchback will be the size of an SUV and an SUV will be the size of Maidenhead. That's the growth curve that cars are on.Not the Mazda2 - although, in fairness, so little does it share with the old one that it probably ought to count as a completely new car. Without looking too hard, you can see, in the bold angles and the radically raked bodyline from front to back, hints of Mazda's groovy sports number, the RX-8 - and none whatsoever of the ungainly lump that was the Mazda2 of yore.The only thing that was hard to enjoy was the colour. My test model was indisputably, deafeningly green. Now, anyone involved in the gritty, frontline business of testing new cars quickly develops a battle-hardened skin with regard to paint jobs. Having seen action for an entire week behind the wheel of a banana yellow Seat Leon - which might as well have been a giant banana, given the looks it got - I like to think there is no car colour so hostile that I couldn't face it down eventually.But the green on this Mazda2 represented another level of engagement altogether. Anxious that it was keeping awake people in neighbouring houses, I considered flinging a tarpaulin over it at night. I considered flinging a tarpaulin over it during the day, as well. I can also report that the paintwork alone induced, in an eight-year-old boy, a spasm of self-consciousness so acute that he was reluctant to get into the car in case anyone could see him and spent all subsequent journeys hunkered down below the windowline.We had the 1.5 litre petrol version, which was, possibly, more juiced-up and attitudinous than it strictly needed to be for a little urban hop-about. Note, however, that the diesel model drops consumption and emissions down to levels where its only serious rival is a VW Polo BlueMotion, which, in turn, is about as close as car ownership comes to using a bike. Note, also, that there are plenty of other colours.Mazda21.5Price£11,799Top speed117mpgAcceleration0-62 in 10.4 secondsAverage consumption47.9mpgCO2 emissions140g/kmEco rating7/10At the wheelCheryl ColeBound forCobhamIn a wordLoud
MondayCoD4 outshoots Halo 3Original TV on way for XboxVideogames used in Clinton satireWhat in the Whirled?TuesdayEA chief pegs PEGI as best rating systemWiimoting to songAssassin's Creed vs Metal GearWednesdayWarhammer Online impressionsNokia reveals sense of humourVirtua Fighter and Sonic 2 on mobileThursdayUK Xbox boss says sorryDare to be Digital gets Channel 4 backingGive movie based on games a chanceHAWX and the resilience of air combat gamesFridayGame Pitch: Crimeface
Google is planning to allow any online advertiser to bid for trademarked names on its UK and Irish search sites, in a move that has been attacked by digital media agencies as a cynical attempt to raise revenues that could ultimately confuse consumers.Google, which removed trademark protection from its North American sites four years ago, said it wants to give users "greater choices to help them make informed decisions" and believes the decision is legal under UK and Irish trademark law.But Gavin Sinden, digital strategy director at digital marketing agency Equi=Media whose clients include esure and FTSE 100 software company Sage, pointed out that the change comes as Google's paid advertising clicks have, for the first time ever, started to show a decline."A more cynical interpretation begins to emerge," he said. "This seems like an attempt by Google to increase bid values and volume of bids on a huge range of terms. By introducing this policy you could type in a search for a particular brand and be confronted with nothing but a sea of competitors."Lewis Lenssen, managing director of search marketing and web development agency, Netizen added that "Google is allowing companies to try and intercept online customers who are hunting for a particular brand".He said the move was yet further evidence of Google's dominance of the market: "Google is setting the tune for business, and every time it changes the rules, it has a wide-ranging influence."The change affects the keywords upon which advertisers bid. When a Google user searches for the word it generates adverts, known as sponsored links, which appear alongside the search results. Until May, however, only trademark owners can bid for their trademarks as keywords.As an example a Google.co.uk search for just "Acme" will only bring up sponsored links from Acme itself. A search for "Acme credit card" however, will bring up a sponsored link for Acme and a host of other sponsored links for credit card companies who have bid on the term "credit card". There can be up to three in a highlighted strip at the top of the page and up to eight down the right hand side.From May 5, however, anyone can bid on the term "Acme" so a search for the bank's name will bring up adverts from competitors who have also bid for that word.Google stressed, however, that trademark owners can request that it protect their trademark by banning rival companies from using the trademarked name in the text of the sponsored link that appears when someone searches for that trademark.For example, from May 5 Acme cannot stop adverts for rival banks appearing when someone enters the search term "Acme" but they can prevent the adverts that do appear from containing the word "Acme". As a result a rival company would not be allowed to place an advert along the lines of "Don't go to Acme, they're rubbish - come to us".
Vista hasn't been the instant and enormous hit that Microsoft had hoped; estimates suggest that last year 250m PCs were sold, but only 100m copies of Vista (which would usually be installed on everything.. wouldn't it?)The reason? People, or more particularly enterprises and smaller businesses, have been sticking with XP, which is more than six years old (or three-plus years, if you count SP2, which came out in August 2004).But Microsoft doesn't support old OSs forever; and XP's life is meant to run out in June. Which has left a lot of people wondering if it will be extended - or just cut out, meaning you won't be able to get it.Here though is the first crack in the dam. Microsoft hasannounced an extension on the life of XP Home- but only for what it calls "an emerging, new class of mobile personal computers commonly known as ultra-low-cost PCs, or ULCPCs."Yeah, we think we'veheard of them.Windows XP Home for ULCPCs will be available until the later of June 30, 2010, or one year after general availability of the next version of Windows.Next version of Windows? Yup, that's Windows 7, currently in the works (amazingly - I can barely believe that there are people at Microsoft willing to put themselves through all that again already). Best guesses suggest that won't be out until 2010. So Windows XP Home, at least for the ULCPCs, will be sticking around until 2011, at a first approximation.So does this mean XP gets a stay of execution? No, according to the Q+A with Michael Dix, general manager of Windows Client Product Management:No, there is no plan to extend sales of other editions of Windows XP beyond June 30, 2008. We are very proud of the progress that we have made with Windows Vista over the last sixteen months. Since its launch, Windows Vista has become the fastest-selling operating system in Microsoft history, and more than 100 million Windows Vista licenses have been sold worldwide.Just remember that 250m PCs sold number though. XP isn't going to die in a hurry.
Nt mny wb sts hv nvntd nw wys t cnsr stpd cmmnts… Sorry, not many web sites have invented new ways to censor stupid comments, butBoing Boinghas: it's called disemvowelling. It's the kind of humour this company of Happy Mutants likes.Boing Boing has been around a long time. It was started as a zine in 1988, moved to the web in 1995, and turned into a collaborative blog in 2000. More recently it has added separate pages for gadgets and videos, bbTV.Boing Boing styles itself "a directory of wonderful things". These include two-headed teddy bears inspired by Zaphod Beeblebrox, a giant dome made from 1,000 Hula Hoops, and a snake made from keyboard keys. Another recent post was: Giant, hippie-hating, cannibalistic squids attack SF Bay Area. As with Wired magazine, there's often a geek, cyberpunk or science fiction angle.But it's not all fun. Boing Boing also covers issues such as free speech, copyright (Creative Commons, open source) and the copy protection that blights many music files. One of the four co-editors, science fiction author Cory Doctorow, spent four years at the Electronic Frontier Foundation.One of its virtues is that there's a lot of it. Boing Boing usually carries from 15 to 30 items a day. It's a good bet you'll find at least a few wonderful things on the front page. And if you don't visit the site every couple of days, you'll probably miss them.This helps account for Boing Boing's impressive traffic levels. According to Federated Media, which sells adverts on the site, it gets 2 million unique visitors per month, and more than 3.3 million people subscribe to its RSS feed. It's bigger than a lot of newspapers.Finding so many interestingly odd items is no doubt a challenge, but in Boing Boing's case, a lot of them come from readers. The most important link on the home page is the first menu item: Suggest A Link. This takes you to the online form for submitting a link along with your "informative blurb" about it. If you include your name and web site address, you get a credit and a link back. That's more than enough motivation for people to keep trying.Others contribute by commenting on posts, and Boing Boing discussions are generally civilised and sane. And short. This is because the site has by far the best moderation policy on the web, which is to delete all the crap (http://www.boingboing.net/2008/03/27/boing-boings-moderat.html).Boing Boing is, of course, "steadfast in its defence of your freedom of speech." But it adds: "By that same token, freedom of speech also means that the people who write and edit Boing Boing have the right to have (or refuse to have) anything they want on their own website. If one of the things they don't want is a comment that you have posted, they aren't depriving you of your freedom of speech. You're free to put that comment up on your own webpage."It's tough, but it works.
Adobe's John Nack has an interesting post onPhotoshop, Lightroom, and Adobe's 64-bit roadmap. His purpose is to break a bit of news as gently as possible: that the next edition of Photoshop will have a 64-bit-native version for Windows 64-bit operating systems, but not for the Mac.The problem is that Mac OS X has two different programming interfaces, known as Carbon and Cocoa. Nack explains:As we wrapped up Photoshop CS3, our plan was to ship 64-bit versions of the next version of Photoshop for both Mac and Windows. On the Mac Photoshop (like the rest of the Creative Suite, not to mention applications like Apple's Final Cut Pro and iTunes) relies on Apple's Carbon technology. Apple's OS team was busy enabling a 64-bit version of Carbon, a prerequisite for letting Carbon-based apps run 64-bit-native.At the WWDC show last June, however, Adobe &amp; other developers learned that Apple had decided to stop their Carbon 64 efforts. This means that 64-bit Mac apps need to be written to use Cocoa (as Lightroom is) instead of Carbon. This means that we'll need to rewrite large parts of Photoshop and its plug-ins (potentially affecting over a million lines of code) to move it from Carbon to Cocoa.Naturally the news has brought a small number of less charitable Mac users out from under their rickety old bridges, but as John Gruber says onDaring Fireball: "I think it's hard to argue that Adobe should have somehow known the end was near for Carbon when even Apple didn't know."Currently, Windows XP and Vista come in two versions: one runs 16-bit and 32-bit programs, while the other runs 32-bit and 64-bit programs. Today, Photoshop runs happily on both the 16/32-bit and 32/64-bit versions. However, the 64-bit version of Photoshop will only run on the 32/64-bit versions of Windows. Both versions are included when you buy Vista, though Microsoft only ships the code in the box with Vista Ultimate.The Mac users who plan to run Windows versions of Photoshop (as they did before the so-called "universal binary" version of Adobe's Creative Suite came out) will be happy to know that Apple's BootCamp software already supports 64-bit Vista.Update: Adobe has now added an official FAQ (PDF).
We've had an amazing response to thegames-slanted Elevator Pitchidea which we posted last week. Our email account (gamesblog +at+gmail.com) has been inundated with suggestions and ideas. Keep 'em coming!But for the first pitch, we thought we'd give the floor to Krishna Stott fromBellyfeel, whose interactive filmCrimefacepushes the notion of interactivity and play into a different game space.Explain your game to my mum in 140 words.I've explained it to my own Mum in less so here goes... Crimeface is an interactive online film containing drama, music, literature and gaming elements. You can watch it like any other film but if you want more then with a click of the mouse you can go further into the story and characters without leaving the film.How do players control the game?Players click on hotspots and links in the film and are taken to different levels of information, media and narrative. This extra information adds to the drama and can change the perception of what is happening in the film through the subplots and clues provided.What is your background?Raised by wolves, became a filmmaker, ventured into interactive media 10 years ago and never looked back. I really believe that there's exciting ways to engage the viewer in stories using the wealth of technology available today and that the audience is ready to engage.Name your competitors.EverybodyHow many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?We've had over 110,000 players since the launch last June and people keep on coming in a steady stream. In a year from now I hope to have at least 2 new projects online and with the lessons learned making Crimeface, confidently expect to double and triple that figure per project.What's your biggest challenge?Getting financial backing to produce projects to a suitable quality. At Bellyfeel we've been developing media based interactive stories for a few years and in that time it felt like we were in the wilderness financially. Things are improving as these projects are taken more seriously now, but getting enough money to spend time focusing on the production and attending to detail is always problematic.What's the weirdest development experience you've had thus far?Making Crimeface once, realising it wasn't right, then throwing it away and starting again. That was a leap of faith I hope I never have to repeat.What's your distribution/publishing plan?Crimeface exists online and is free to play in keeping with the web philosophy of old. For future projects I have a much more advanced rollout plan across the wide spectrum of delivery platforms including a physical 'boxed' version that will be for sale.Are indie games the latest killer app?No - interactive stories are.Are you the next big thing?Maybe...If you've got a game-related project you'd like to have profiled on the gamesblog, ping us an email to gamesblog+at+gmail.com and we'll put you in the lift of dreams.
What's your favourite piece of technology?It has to be the iPhone. Surrounded (and swamped) by all my other gadgets — such as the BlackBerry, iMacs, MacBook, Nokia N95 and TomTom navigator — this time it felt different. I don't know what it is, it's somehow more "emotional".How has it improved your life?I'm not exactly sure if it actually improves my life. What it does is make me feel more at ease with technology. Maybe because of its touchpad interface it becomes more addictive to use. If only there were more Wi-Fi zones where we live, like in the US in every Starbucks. In those Starbucks in New York, I saw a lot of people keeping in touch with their offices for a whole day long with their device of choice connecting to Wi-Fi or Lan. That improves your life a great deal, I'd say.When was the last time you used it and what for?To see what the weather was like in the three cities I visit most — Amsterdam, New York and London. It is also my alarm clock for tomorrow, my newspaper for after breakfast and my MP3 player for walking the dog (in fact, there no longer is a dog, so it's me and the iPhone only these days). We're the best of friends, as you can see.What additional features would you add if you could?Well, for full connectivity it would really need to not only rely on Wi-Fi but also via GPRS. Next, I would like it to replace my CrackBerry for push email everywhere.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?As is, yes. In concept, no. This is the way we will go: wireless and mobile.All we need is more reliability and universal standards, and we're there.What one tip would you give to non-iPhone users?Wait for the 2.0 version.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?Shall I pull an old Clive James trick here? OK, how about a Luddite nerd?What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I think that must be my car, a Renault Vel Satis, stuffed with technology.It flopped commercially on the car market, but will be a classic car of the future soon — in a Doctor Who kind of way, that is.Mac or PC?Arsenal or Chelsea? Mac of course!What's the most-played track on your iPod?These days — it changes per day, actually — it must be Universal Sound of the World by Syreeta. Here is me already practising as a grumpy old man: all that "Neo Retro Soul" coming from Britain. Take Syreeta, Minny Ripperton, Freda Payne. I could go on.Will robots rule the world?They already do, I'm afraid. Still, better than Tears for Fears's scenario ...What piece of technology would you most like to own?If not politically correct, then a jetplane (John Travolta's) where you are still allowed to use your "device" while flying.Stephen Emmer's new album,Recitement— featuring Lou Reed, Sylvia Krystal, Richard Burton and Tony Visconti — is out on April 7
The answer is to make a YouToob video viewed by millions -- or not, in fact. The $64 question was tackled in the latest episode of South Park (Season 12: Canada on Strike).Gossip blogValleywaghas a couple of South Park clips (oneandtwo) that climax in a fight to the death between Tron Guy, Chocolate Rain Guy, Star Wars Kid, Sneezing Panda and the heroes of other pointless YouToob time-wasters. Valleywag also links to the original videos, for anyone lucky enough to have missed them the first million or so times, thereby helping to perpetuate the "memes" supposedly being destroyed....
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
TalkTalk, the internet service-provider owned by Carphone Warehouse, has flatly rejected demands from the music and film industries that it should "police" the internet and cut off some broadband customers in an attempt to stem the flood of illegal file-sharing.The record industry, in the form of the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), has suggested persistent illegal file-sharers should be warned by their service providers and then be cut off under a "three strikes and you're out" rule.But TalkTalk has written to the BPI to reject the scheme outright, branding it "unreasonable and unworkable" and warning it will take "every practical and legal step to defend its customers"."The music industry has consistently failed to adapt to changes in technology and now seeks to foist their problems on someone else," said Carphone Warehouse's chief executive, Charles Dunstone. "Rather than threatening us, the BPI's time would be better spent facing up to the reality of our times and adapting its business model accordingly."I cannot foresee any circumstances in which we would voluntarily disconnect a customer's account on the basis of a third party alleging a wrongdoing."A spokesman for the BPI responded: "We believe it should be in the interests of any socially responsible ISP to help their customers better understand what behaviour is and isn't legal."It's not true that we are threatening them or asking them to become the internet police. In fact, what we are looking for is a progressive partnership that will ultimately create new services for their customers. But clearly they must begin to address problems of illegal downloading on their networks."In February, lobbying by the music and film industries led the government to say it would look to introduce legislation next year if service providers could not agree a voluntary framework to combat piracy.TalkTalk's letter is the most vigorous rejection of the music and film industries' plans so far. Virgin Media is in talks with the music and film industries about the issue, although it denies reports that it has accepted the "three strikes" scheme. Orange has proposed sending illegal file-sharers a letter warning them that unless they curb their actions it could be forced by the courts to hand their details to bodies such as the BPI.
Air combat games are like pork pies - no-one will admit to enjoying them, but somehow they sell. Now Ubisoft has officially revealed that it's entering the fray with Tom Clancy's HAWX, a gritty flight shooter set in 2012 and due out on Xbox 360, PS3 and PC this autumn. The game promises to provide 'the next evolution of high altitude warfare' introducing a Ghost Recon-style squad management system, allowing you to call in and direct other planes. There's also a four-player online co-op mode and 16-player dogfights.All well and good, but does anyone care enough about the flight shooter to celebrate its re-invention? And what is there to re-invent? What are the legacy titles? There was After Burner, of course, and the mystifyingly successful Air Combat series. Wing Arms on Saturn was sort of okay, as was Konami's Dreamcast flyer, Airforce Delta. And there are lots of very worthy and realistic PC flight combat sims with instruction manuals like phone books, but these are mostly unintelligible to all but a specialist, contained community. More recently Warhawk on PS3 has done enough to interest gamers, though of course, it's possible to play online, without ever getting in a plane. No, as a pure genre, this is something people tend to dip in and out of without becoming passionate disciples.So what have been your favourite air combat games? And what must Ubisoft Bucharest do to create the first genuinely interesting mainstream example for many years?
Gamasutra hasa great articleby Justin Marks, a game and movie scriptwriter who penned the screenplay for the forthcoming Street Fighter movie. He doesn't talk much about that project (apart from assuring us it's a 'gritty, realistic character piece that just happens to use characters taken from a video game'). Instead, he takes on the standard gamer hypothesis that Hollywood just doesn't understand or care about games and that's why so many game-to-movie tie-ins have been utter travesties.Marks doesn't deny the turgid quality of previous works. What he does do, however, is argue that there's a new generation working behind the scenes in the US movie business; he calls it 'nerd Hollywood', a group of directors, writers and actors who've grown up as gamers and respect the medium. "I know this because I work with these people every day and play with them on Xbox Live every night... They're genuinely smart people. And they genuinely want to make good movies," he asserts.Marks places some of the blame for rubbish videogame movies on the games themselves - on their lack of characterisation or interesting, innovative settings.We all need to take a long look in the mirror and realize that there are very few mainstream game franchises that could stand next to the best comics of the 1980's, or the best movies ever. And yes, Shadow of the Colossus and Portal are hands-down better than most anything out there, but no one is playing those games. What is the mainstream audience playing? Halo 3.On the subject of the Halo movie, Marks presents a compelling argument as to why a movie couldn't work as a direct translation of the game experience (apparently what Bungie and Microsoft were fighting for): the finances don't work out. The movie would cost $200m, but Marks estimates that if the opening weekend is only attended by rabid fans of the games you're looking at a gross of $40m - "spend $200 million dollars on that and you're looking at one of the biggest flops since Ishtar. People lose jobs. Game over."We've come at this argument a few times before, but this is an interesting angle from the other side of the creative divide. I don't think Marks is really asking for games to change - Halo wouldn't work as some sort of deep character study, it's a shooter. (Although it's worth pointing out that titles like Haze and Far Cry 2 are pushing into this territory.) What he's saying is, gamers have to be prepared for their favourite titles to be re-imagined by this new breed of directors. Games need to be jumping off points, not cinematic blueprints. That, I suppose, is what was attempted with the Resident Evil movies, although they actually manage to bemoreshallow than their inspirations - which is saying something.I'm always banging on about how JJ Abrams is influences by games - perhaps this is how game culture will finally stamp its mark on Hollywood, not through explicit tie-ins, but through an almost subliminal seeping of ideas and conventions from one medium to the other.
The Scottish student game development competition,Dare to be Digital, has secured significant funding from Channel 4. The partnership will facilitate a new international competition, named 4Dare, involving small groups of students from around the world working on ten-week projects. There'll also be a ProtoPlay exhibition, which will run as part of the Edinburgh Interactive Festival, showing off the work of the competitors. Introducing the 4Dare concept, Channel 4's Chief Executive Andy Duncan said:Channel 4 is driven by innovation, talent and risk-taking and all of these are inherent in the Dare to be Digital competition. Video game design and production requires a fusion of art and science and 4Dare will bring together the top young talent from regional centres vital to the future of digital broadcasting in this area.This is good news, I think, for both grassroots indie development and for the UK games industry. Dare to be Digital finalists produce consistently excellent, interesting work and with more centres opening throughout the UK, there's more chance for burgeoning developers to get involved.More infohere.
After an18-month delay, three of the four music majors have now reached an agreement with MySpace to launch a music download site.The New York Timessays:As part of the deal, MySpace will spin out its popular MySpace Music service as an independent joint venture in partnership with Universal Music, Sony BMG and Warner Music Group. EMI, the fourth major label, is not a part of the deal at this time, but people involved in the negotiations said it would probably join soon. The music companies will own minority stakes in the venture and will make their entire music catalogs available.Chris DeWolfe, chief executive of MySpace, a division of News Corporation, described the new service, which will be introduced later this year, as a one-stop source for all music, in all its various digital incarnations.Streaming music will be ad-supported and therefore free. Downloads will be paid for but at least they will, like Amazon's, be DRM-free. A subscription service "is also being considered, Mr DeWolfe said".Many news sites have much the samestory, but theDow Jones newswirehas a longer one.
BT Broadband has admitted that it carried out secret trials on 18,000 user accounts in autumn 2006 with technology from 121Media, which became the targeted advertising company Phorm. Though BT has not yet said where the trials were done, the systems were used to analyse web traffic and then serve selected adverts on a number of selected websites.The revelation, first detailed onThe Registerwebsite, might lead to legal action by any of the users who can show their data was used. That is because it appears to breach the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (RIPA) 2000, which makes it an offence to intercept internet traffic without consent or a warrant.Phorm is negotiating a deal with BT, Virgin Media and Talk Talk, the UK's three largest ISPs with about 10m users. It would analyse web browsing and offer targeted adverts, as well as warning about phishing sites. Talk Talk has said it will make the service opt-in; BT has implied it will be opt-out. Virgin Media had no comment.BT's 2006 trials certainly involved some sort of interception, because the data streams had extra Javascript inserted into them - which puzzled a number of people at the time. Two examples can be seen at the forums ofraisingkids.co.ukandprogarchives.com. In both, the Javascript and other tags inserted by the 121Media system are clearly visible, with one showing the referring page and possibly "interests" of the member. Both contain links to sysip.net - the 121Media-owned site through which BT sent browser requests during the 2006 trials and later ones in summer 2007.BT declined to comment beyond a prepared statement, saying: "The purpose of the test was to evaluate the functional and technical performance of the platform. It is important for BT to ensure that before any new technologies are deployed, they are robust and fit for purpose. No personally identifiable information was processed, stored or disclosed during this test."But serious questions remain. BT said that the test was only carried out for two weeks - yet the second forum posting above was made in December 2006.Last week Guardian News and Media, which publishes the Guardian, announced that it would not pursue any advertising tie-up with Phorm, after having initially expressed an interest. "We have concluded at this time that we do not want to be part of the network," said Simon Kilby, GNM's advertising manager. "Our decision was in no small part down to the conversations we had internally about how this product sits with the values of our company."Phorm says its technology means adverts can be better targeted to individuals, by creating "profiles" of their browsing behaviour while not retaining any personally identifiable information; users are identified by randomly-numbered browser cookies, whose number matches to a profile on the Phorm system. Adverts could be better targeted, and because it monitors the sites people visit, could also warn users about known phishing sites.&#183;This article was amended on Thursday April 3 2008. In it we misspelled Simon Kilby's name as Philby. This has been corrected.
One of the most astonishing facts I've read in the last few weeks was about Bill Gates's charitable foundation and it was buriedin the middle of one of Gideon Rachman's columnsin the FT.Apparently staff at the foundation not just expect, but actually want 19 out of 20 of their medical research projects to end in failure. They believe that if their failure rate is lower than 95%, they are not trying hard enough to produce brilliant inventions.Rachman cites this as an example of the extraordinary optimism and ambition of the Silicon Valley IT entrepreneurs. ReadingDavid Cameron's speech on innovation, it is clear that he would like to import some of this over here.The speech is much more interesting than you would guess from reading the blurb at the top of the Conservative party website. Cameron argues that innovation often happens outside the public sector, rather than within the public sector, and the speech is about things a government can do to foster and develop creativity.Cameron has spoken before about "the post-bureaucratic age" and, reading this, for the first time I think I know what he's on about. He's talking about the internet, open sourcing, user-generated content and what Charles Leadbeater calls in his new book "We Think(ie, collaborative policy-making).Cameron seems to understand that all this is going to change the world profoundly."We accept the innovation requires a culture of risk-taking, of trial and error, of flexibility in thinking and often of collaborative effort," he says. He wants a Conservative government "to tackle the corrosive sense of risk-aversion which holds back innovation within our society".It's at this point that the speech becomes unconvincing - not because Cameron is insincere, but because the Westminster political system that Cameron inhabits is pathologically (and perhaps fatally) risk-averse.In an ideal world a prime minister, like the Gates Foundation, would be able to tell ministers that if they were not coming up with initiatives that failed, they were not being ambitious enough.Of course, ministers frequently pilot programmes that have to be dropped because they do not work. But have you ever heard a minister actually boasting about this?Another problem is money. As Rachman points out in his column, Gates does not seem to mind if he spends his own money on a project that tanks.But if you're spending the taxpayers' money, a 95% failure rate is rather harder to justify.And, finally, there is the problem that while innovation can be a force for good, it can also have malign consequences.Cameron talks about the possible benefits to be derived from publishing vast amounts of government data and he speculates about social entrepreneurs using it to produce policy.But what happens if Russian gangsters are logging on too?Cameron has not taken many risks in his political career (and, given his standing in the polls, he's unlikely to start now). He may find it easier to explain innovation than to actually make it happen.
Last year Radiohead didn't sign back up with EMI, which has been casting about looking for new revenue streams (even to the extent of hiring a Google executive whosays file-sharing isn't necessarily bad). People wondered how they'd do in this feral internet world. Well, seems they've got some ideas.Having offered In Rainbows for whatever people wanted to pay online, they're now trying anexperiment at the US iTunes Store[link requires iTunes US Store; choose "yes" to go there when asked if not a US user]. There the band offers five "stems" of the track Nude (from In Rainbows) for $0.99; you can remix them. Buy them all by April 8 and you'll get an access code via email for a freeGaragebandproject file. And then you canreallyget mixing. (Note: Garageband only runs on Apple computers. Which Radiohead use, as it happens.)Complete details available atRadiohead Remix, where you can upload remixes, get widgets so people can vote for your mix on your MySpace/Facebook/etc page, and generally join in. (It puts the BBC's "downlaod a track from their exclusive BBC gig" offer slightly into perspective, I suppose.)It's really interesting. There's already a top 10, with thousands of votes cast. User-generated content where the user pays? That's very clever. Though of course as with all things Radiohead, it's predicated on their enormousexistingsuccess - if the band down the pub started offering this, I doubt many would stir.Of course, Nine Inch Nails (which has a huge online following) did offer the Garageband project file for one of their tracks, The Hand That Feeds,three years ago. But that was just playing. In this one, money is changing hands.One other point, since we're on iTunes: it's officially the US's largest music retailer, with 19% of all sales ahead of the behemoth that is Wal-Mart (15%). (Amazon was 6%.)Conslusion: either the US music business is in dire trouble, or Apple is taking over the (music) world. Or both.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
On the BBC Internet Blog, Ashley Highfield has posted"Hidden Costs" of Watching TV Online?with a 19-point Broadband Charter covering the BBC, iPlayer use and the ISPs. He says: "I put all these points down to get the conversation going."I'm not advocating them (except where I explicitly say so), but we are pulling our thoughts together here at the BBC, and liaising with the ISPs both individually and through the Broadband Stakeholders Group, and with the BBC Trust and Ofcom, so your thoughts on these points are, as ever, very welcome.Some are not going to provoke much disagreement, such as: "ISPs should be clearer in their marketing (Ofcom can help them). Unlimited broadband should mean unlimited." Some are novel, like the idea of downloading programmes "off-peak to the user's hard-drive pre-transmission (hidden and encrypted), to be ready to be unlocked immediately after the programme has gone out on traditional linear TV". In some cases, it's not clear what Highfield wants: what sort of "intervention against BT Wholesale," for example, and why?The issue of "unlimited" bandwidth and peer-to-peer file-sharing -- which is how the iPlayer does its downloads -- is a topic I've been blogging about recently (hereandhere).It's mostly not a BBC problem, as far as I can see. However, it has been something that the ISPs have warned or complained about (possibly for publicity reasons), and growing iPlayer use could be what finally tips the system over the edge....
Intel unveiled its second-generationClassmate PCwith a 9-inch screen and webcam at the Intel Developer Forum in Shanghai. It looks a bit more robust than the previous 7-inch version but still has a Celeron M processor, not a newAtom. Intel's Classmate PC site hasside-by-side specifications.AP says:Classmates are based on Intel's design and include its processors, but they are built by other manufacturers and sold under a variety of brand names. The first generation went on sale in March 2007 with the 7-inch screen and fewer functions. Intel said it has sold "tens of thousands" of the machines but declined to provide more specific data.CNet has a review,Intel Classmate PC (9-inch), which says:Compared with the original, this Classmate PC looks less like a toy and more like a traditional laptop computer, even as it keeps a somewhat thick, plastic chassis with slightly rounded corners. The new Classmate also keeps the removable snap on leather cover, which doubles as a convenient carry handle. The rugged design makes it more than a pound heavier than the Eee PC, but it also feels significantly sturdier.The keyboard is about the same size as on the original Classmate and is designed for those with smaller fingers. However, the keys have been rearranged into a more traditional layout, correcting a few niggling problems with the older version, such as a missing right-shift key. The touch pad is now a traditional rectangular surface, instead of the visually interesting, but hard-to-use round version on the older Classmate. Intel added a Webcam, positioned above the screen, in this revision, which is a cool extra for such an inexpensive system.The major disappointment is that the larger screen still has the same old resolution: 800 x 480 pixels. Still, says CNet, it has more ports than a MacBook Air....Forbes magazine compares the $489Classmate 2 with the OLPC XO, saying: "the Classmate hardly feels like a leap forward in educational hardware as much as a gray, shrunken version of any typical Intel-powered laptop". (Harsh? In real life, the XO looks amazingly naff.) Still:In Forbes.com's tests, the XO's Wi-Fi connection was weak and finicky. When it did connect, Flash or Java-based sites like YouTube or Yahoo! Games suffered from crippling sputters and stalls, thanks to the XO's small memory capacity.Intel's Classmate, on the other hand, connected to the same Wi-Fi network and was playing 9-inch videos of Korean break dancing within seconds. Other dynamic Web sites, like games and photo sites, also loaded without a hitch.That means that as the computing world shifts to the Web from the increasingly irrelevant desktop, Intel's Classmate could flourish while the XO is left behind. For all of OLPC's brilliant bells and whistles, the nonprofit has created a closed platform that isn't capable of using Windows programs -- not to mention a constantly evolving ecosystem of Web applications.Forbes's conclusion:But the most important factor by far in the Classmate's favor? Once that rural Indian nine-year-old gets a peak at YouTube, the XO doesn't stand a chance.Intel, of course, also supports the use of Linux on Classmate PCs, not just Windows.Update: Here'sIntel's press release.
Spinal Tap? No, it's Flint HengeNo, he's not enormously tall - he's building a Stonehenge replica in Flint, Michigan. His aim: to show how a small group of neolithic humans could have moved those amazingly heavy blocks.Life in slow motionIf you could see life at 1,000 frames per second (our eyes just see a blur at 40 times slower) this is what balloons bursting would look like. Entrancing, even if it is a soft drinks advert.Do, re, mi, so, fa... doh!From a Japanese kids' magazine, a one-handed piano simulator. Except three of the notes are on the back of your hand.Got a favourite tech or games video? Tell us in the comments!
On April 17 2005, the Millstone nuclear generating plant in Connecticut shut down when a circuit board monitoring a steam pressure line short-circuited. In 2006, a huge batch of Swatch watches, made by the eponymous Swiss company, were recalled at an estimated cost of $1bn (&pound;500m). In both cases, "tin whiskers" - microscopic growths of the metal from soldering points on a circuit board - were blamed for causing the problems.It's not the first time these mysterious growths have been blamed for electronics failures. In 1998 the Galaxy IV communications satellite sputtered out after just five years; engineers diagnosed its failure as due to "whiskers".The US military blamed them for malfunctioning F-15 radar systems and misguided Phoenix and Patriot missiles. In 1986, theUS Food and Drug Administrationrecalled a number of pacemakers because of these same whiskers. In fact, they've been known about since the 1940s, and happen with cadmium and zinc, too: during the second world war, similar whiskers would short the cadmium tuning capacitors in aircraft radios. A decade later, tin-based relays in AT&amp;T telephone switching centres were found to cause shorts.Pushing tinThe solution to "whiskering"? Mix lead into the solder, as was done from the 1950s. Colin Hughes, a physicist who worked on the first British nuclear bomb, told me that the whiskering problem never came up during his career.But now the lead is gone, by legal mandate, and whiskers are back - causing potential problems for us all.Since 2006, lead has been banned from solder in the European Union under the 2003 Reduction of Hazardous Substance (RoHS) directive, which gave manufacturers three years to phase out lead.The logic seemed reasonable. Removing lead from petrol (where it was used to prevent engine mistiming) brought clear environmental and health benefits, taking a harmful chemical that can affect intelligence out of the atmosphere. Removing lead from solder, the 37% lead, 63% tin alloy used to join metal objects in everything from plumbing to circuit boards, was an obvious next step to prevent it leaching into ground water from dumped items in landfills.Meanwhile, the US and Japan have also been moving to lead-free solders. It's a huge shift; the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimates that 80m kilograms of lead solder was used worldwide in 2002. Environmental groups have applauded the move. "In the US we've been surviving without lead solder for many years," says Rick Hind, legislative director of Greenpeace's toxics campaign. "With less exposure to lead we will all benefit by being smarter and making safer and more durable products." (The US has not made lead-free solder obligatory, but does offer tax benefits for doing so.)But without lead to tame it, tin behaves oddly on circuit boards. Left alone, tin plating, like cadmium and zinc, spontaneously generates microscopic shreds of metal - about one to five microns in diameter, or less than one-tenth as wide as a human hair - which push up from the base. If they grow far enough to touch another current-carrying location, they'll cause a short that can wreck the equipment while leaving barely any trace.The cause is becoming clearer. "I believe the mechanism of whisker formation is now understood: it is due to compressive stress - caused by, say, diffusion of copper into the tin - being built up in the tin layer which breaks through the tin oxide barrier layer [to the air]," says Steve Jones of Circatex, in South Shields.  Critics cite reports that solder substitutes - pure tin, tin-zinc, tin-silver-copper - simply cannot match the lead mixture for reliability, coverage ("wetting" terminals), and cost (silver is especially pricey). Therefore, the US military, Nasa and medical and high-level research equipment are exempt from what authorities view as untrustworthy commercial components."I still use lead-tin solder - it works better," says John Ketterson, a solid state physicist at Northwestern University in Illinois. He notes the tradeoffs of "cost, materials, strength of the solder and all that" during this mandated changeover, and that manufacturers "have to get an experience base" with new processes.Double standardsThis means the unwitting consumer bears the cost of the experimental burden. "So Nasa does not want the economic risk of having the Hubble [Space Telescope] go down. But if one personal computer in a thousand goes down because of the whiskers, no one is going to do anything much about it," says Ketterson.One in a thousand may be a generously low estimate. Besides whiskering, lead-free solder is more brittle. Substitute solders also may be applied too thinly or with too little heat - or, for that matter, with too much heat (lead substitutes have higher melting points), stressing the circuit board laminate.The question is, are the products we are using now being affected by tin whiskers? When your computer stops working, could that be the cause? Certainly, some in the computer industry know about it: representatives fromSun Microsystems and IBMwere among those presenting at a tin whisker workshop in 2006 ; a second is duelater this month.Using a matt finish, removing contaminants from the solder and surfaces, and reducing mechanical stress on the components being soldered all mitigate the growth of whiskers. But Bob Willis, an opponent of the EU directive and technical director for the SMART (Surface Mount and Related Technology) Group in the UK, says that so far there is "no definite solution to the problem".More than 80% of all electronic components are made in Asia but specifications are imposed by the brand-name company. I rang eight manufacturers to enquire about encounters with whiskers and related problems. Only one tech support person - and no spokesperson - knew anything about it. Yet Google "tin whiskers" and you get 40,000 hits.Apple was the only manufacturer to respond, stating that the company "has been using lead-free solders since 2004 without issue". Perhaps manufacturers haven't developed an "experience base", or perhaps it isn't registering as a problem. Many customers will probably chalk failed devices off to their own isolated tough luck, when the cause might really have been microscopic whiskers inside their machines.Lessons learnedOverall, was it sensible to go lead-free? "I would say no," says Willis. Earlier obsolescence means more discarded devices. Critics argue that substitutes are more toxic and energy-wasteful than the lead they replace - and that lead doesn't leach from circuit boards, because it doesn't migrate as lead in paint or petrol does.The National Electronics Manufacturing Centre for Excellence, sponsored by the US Navy, did find that modifying the temperatures at which soldered items are bathed and stored diminished whiskering, but nevertheless recommends the "use of lead in conflict with future industrial practice." And Swatch, after its expensive recall, won a permanent exemption from the RoHS directive for its exports to the European Union.Perhaps a reliable lead-free process will be conjured up soon - though experts doubt it. Companies such as IBM and National Instruments say they are now achieving RoHS compliant techniques even for exempt products. But this debate among professionals looks like it needs to come out in the open. So far, the last source to count on for information about this looming problem is the manufacturers.Tin whiskers: coming to a PC near you?&middot;They can grow at ambient temperature and humidity, or in vacuum&middot;They can grow in steady or varying temperatures (though the latter may encourage growth)&middot;Whiskers' tips are atom-sharp. They will push through any coating, given time&middot;They are a prevalent cause, only now being identified, of many past equipment failures&middot;One whisker can carry about 30mA - more than enough to cause havoc in digital circuits&middot;Silver-tin-copper ("SAC") solder slows but doesn't stop whisker growth&middot;SAC solder has more environmental impact than the lead-tin version&middot;Older 37%-63% lead-tin solder mix merely deforms, reducing stress and hence minimising whiskering&middot;Whiskers can grow indefinitelySource:Howard Johnson, Signal Consulting
It's almost a year since I wrotethis article- "Money can't buy you loyalty - about the possibility of an impending exodus of staff away from Google.The speculation was that an increasing number of Googlers were seeing their options in the company vest, and that it was going to be increasingly difficult for to hang on to some high profile staff who were now millionaires on the lookout for a challenge.The news yesterday thatanother senior executiveat the internet's most influential company had jumped ship - this time to record label EMI - has boosted the "brain drain"memesurface again (here'sReuters,Wiredand our ownJemimaon the subject).That comes on the heels of other departures (most notablySheryl Sandberg's switch to Facebook) .Staff turnover is a natural phenomenon, of course, but the key thing here is trying to determine what - if anything - these changes tells us: is Google a victim of its own rapid expansion? Has its ability to retain valued staff diminished? Does it signal the rise of legitimate competitors? Or something else entirely been happening here?
UK Xbox boss Neil Thompson was in an apologetic mood wheninterviewed in the papertoday. Describing the RROD hardware problems as, "disappointing" he goes on to say sorry for the problems with Xbox Live over Christmas."When you look at the scale of what we're running, I think we are actually quite good at it - we've got millions and millions and millions of people playing online across the world every day. It's not an insubstantial task to keep that going. Now that's not an excuse, that just context ... but we are breaking new ground with this - unfortunately, at Christmas, we failed the test."Thompson was more upbeat about casual games, arguing that there are more on the Xbox than any other console. You have to assume he is talking about Xbox Live Arcade but does that really count? Yes, there are plenty of casual titles - Zuma, Bejewelled etc - on the service but most people still use their consoles offline, particularly casual users, and so have limited access to these games.Thompson also dismisses HD-DVD and talks up digital distribution. Sadly he didn't mention when the UK/Europe would start getting the premium TV content - Lost? 24? - that would really start driving use of the service.The reviews are also in, with Sega's prolific recent release schedule hogging all three slots.Sega Superstars Tennis,Condemned 2andHouse of the Dead 2/3. Next week I'm reviewingViking: Battle for Asgardfor the 360. This hack n' slasher seems to have polarized opinion but I'm firmly in the positive camp. Yes it can get repetitive but the style and freedom - Fantasy Crackdown? - are enough to keep me interested.
It's a drizzly Saturday afternoon at Wembley Stadium. Although the stands are eerily deserted, there's an international sporting event in progress. Within the labyrinthine infrastructure of this huge edifice, hidden away in a small suite on the fourth floor, 200 gamers have gathered to play Unreal Tournament 3, a hardcore first-person shooter where players run around huge arenas, picking up weapons and blasting each other to bloody pulp.They are fighting it out for an overall prize pot of &pound;50,000: &pound;20,000 for the winner of the one v one tournament, and &pound;30,000 to the victors of the five v five team event. It's the biggest prize ever offered on the UK pro-gaming scene, and Europe's best gamers are here.Kicking offPro-gaming - or eSports as it's known - is in its infancy in Britain. Competitors mostly play in online tournaments or big LAN events where hundreds of players gather together to take part in exhausting weekend gaming blowouts. There's not a huge amount of money involved and most players will be semi-professional at best. When they join a gaming team, or "clan", they'll often get their travel and accommodation expenses covered, but that's it.This tournament is an important taster of what's to come. It's part of Play.com's ambitious Play Live videogames event, which took place last month - the first big consumer gaming show in the UK for four years. Downstairs, there are 20,000 visitors, playing the latest games and watching bands on the main stage. Some of them filter up to take a look at the bank of 44 interconnected PCs, manned by furiously concentrating pro-gamers. A few spectators clearly know what's happening; others shuffle off confused, back down to Guitar Hero. It symbolises where pro-gaming is in the UK right now.Over in the US, pro-gaming is huge and steadily growing. Here you'll find the Championship Gaming Series, an international gaming league created by Fox Sports with a $500,000 top prize and dozens of the world's best players, most of whom are on exclusive contracts to this competition. The genesis of the CGS is fascinating. Fox Sports head honcho David Hill was annoyed when his satellite TV station DirecTV lost the rights to NFL footage in a bidding war. He had watched the way ESPN turned action sports like BMX and skateboarding into a major media brand and wanted something similar."David said, 'We should go create the next great sports property'," recalls Andy Reif, CEO and commissioner of the CGS. " 'If we help build this sport, we'll own a piece of it - we won't be paying rights fees'. He immediately thought videogames. More and more people play every day, unlike traditional sports, which are struggling for participation. So we said,  let's see if it can work for television."Now Championship Gaming tournaments are shown in primetime slots on DirecTV in the US, on Sky in the UK and on STAR in the Far East, giving the league a potential TV audience of 350 million.Also hugely popular in the US is Major League Gaming, which puts on glitzy pro-gaming events in cities up and down North America - attracting 10,000 spectators a time. Unlike CGS, a corporate entity, MLG began as a grassroots, community-driven tournament and has gradually expanded. It now has 300 professional players, sponsorship from the likes of Dr Pepper, Microsoft and Hewlett Packard, and a cross-platform media deal with ESPN to stream live footage on its website,ESPN360.com.Superstars of the futureBut even this highly developed market is playing catch-up to South Korea, where eSports is major mainstream entertainment. Players of the most popular title, the complex real-time strategy game, Starcraft, are superstars. Teenage girls mob them, they have their own clothing lines, they're millionaires."I'll put it into perspective," says Paul Sulyok, founder of TNWA, which runs its own pro-gaming events throughout Europe. "Baseball is South Korea's national sport. When they had the national baseball final two years ago, there were 25,000 spectators. However, the event ran on the same weekend as the Starcraft final, which had 100,000."So the Wembley event is a quiet tasting session for what's to come. To the uninitiated, a hardcore first-person shooter like Unreal Tournament 3 looks like mindless, hyper-accelerated carnage - but once you begin to understand the tactical depth and  enormous cerebral demands placed on the players, it's engrossing."It's like chess, but much faster," says Hypno, a member of the UK gaming clan 4Kings who's flown over from Portugal to compete. His final against the favourite, German player Killu, symbolises the depth of competitive gaming. Killu is ultra-cautious; once he's got a single kill, he'll go into hiding - the videogame equivalent of putting 11 men behind the ball. Hypno is different. He's an in-your-face-player, always looking for a fight. The fact he goes on to win the &pound;20,000 first prize is satisfying for the devotees watching. It's a victory for accessible, exhilarating gameplay.The team matches again have their own strategic intricacies. Most of the teams have been playing solidly online for a month, fine-tuning tactics. A few days before an event, they all meet up and "boot camp" - essentially train intensively together, getting competition sharp.At this event there are eight leading European clans. They all know each other (they play online all the time) and there are some charged rivalries. Team Dignitas of the UK is infamous for its gamesmanship, shouting out taunts across the computer banks. In the end, though, it's a Swedish clan, the Soul Reapers, who win - they've been together for nine years, an old-school Unreal outfit in a sport now dominated by newer games like Call of Duty 4.Like everyone else here, Soul Reapers are looking for bigger sponsors. And they're coming. 4Kings has just been signed by Packard Bell, and Team Dignitas wear T-shirts emblazoned with company logos. There's an understanding that a huge demographic can be reached here. Things are picking up.The Unreal Tournament competition, a small element of the Play Live show, is a modest statement of intent. Play.com plans on running a similar event next year. By then, the pro-gaming element might be on the main stage in front of thousands of people, with a commentator and big screens showing replays of key moments. This is how it's done in the US; this is what teenagers are watching instead of the NFL or NBA. The next big worldwide sports property? It's closer than you think.
By accepting the terms of a website, I have unwittingly agreed to their contract of business. Is there any way out of this? The firm is Platte International Ltd, and their trap isgetfilmsnow.com. Or should I just pay the £30 and walk away?Name withheldI've looked at the site. It tells you what the deal is up front, and you can cancel during the trial period. You are not billed until day four of your monthly subscription, which seems fair -- always assuming cancellation works properly and the site's invasive software is removed. The terms and conditions are explicit, and they are spelled outhere, so it's up to the buyer to beware.Some readers may already know that Platte Media has taken over our old "friends" at MBS (What MBS did after popups for porn: films ... with popup bills, March 27). MBS took a very unpleasant approach to making sure it got paid, by repeatedly putting intrusive popups on the user's screen. This approach has been reviewed by the Office of Fair Trading, which has not done anything to stop it (OFT accepts undertakings from Micro Bill Systems Ltd).This reader responded: "I have paid Platte their £30 and they have removed their software, but I have to say that I found reading their terms so disquieting and downright sinister that I will not be able to relax for months."There is anMBS Victims Forum, but the best approach is not to become a victim. Remember, clicking a download button can be hazardous to your wealth.
