Yes, it's true. Europeans enjoy videogames and they're playing more of them than ever. What's more, some gamers aren't even children anymore. These are the astonishing findings of theInteractive Software Federation of Europe, which has just published the results of a survey into the European games scene. It seems we now live in the second largest videogaming territory in the world, just behind Asia and in front of the US. From the press release:The average age of an gamer in the UK is now 33 - the highest out of the territories surveyed. In Finland they are, on average 30 while in Spain they are 26. British parents are also regularly grabbing controllers to play games. Some 42 per cent of games players have children compared to 31 per cent in Finland and 23 per cent in Spain. Across Europe 81 per cent of parents say they enjoy playing games with their children. More than half of Europe's gaming parents monitor what their children are playing and 59 per cent keep a close eye on what games their children are playing.Video games lead the way when it comes to other forms of entertainment. Of those polled a staggering 72 per cent see gaming as "a fun way to spend time", compared to cinema's and tv's 68 per cent. Some 57 per cent revealed that gaming "stimulates your imagination" (compared with 48 per cent for movies and 35 per cent for watching television) and 42 per cent of respondents stated that gaming keeps you fit mentally, compared with 25 per cent for movies, and 26 per cent for watching TV.Videogames: officially a fun way to spend time.
Okay, so it's still costing around £140, butRock Bandjust got alittle more affordable. The music game - that comes complete with guitar, mic and, most impressively, drums - has a frankly ludicrous RRP of £180. Hopefully this cut will lead to other retailers following suit although the general lack of stock when I took a totally unscientific walk around the shops earlier suggests the demand is there. Unsurprising really - get three friends in a room, crank up the volume (essential to mask up the annoying tappity-tap of the drums) and you've got the best party game around. Especially if you likethe Pixies. But is it really worth the price? You could buy a Wii or 360 for around the same price. And - I'm making assumptions here - if you can afford to blow nearly 200 quid on a game then chances are job/family commitments will prevent you from playing as much as you'd like. So anyone here taken the plunge?
There's the amusing idea that you can invest millions of dollars in a Web 2.0 start-up with no revenues because if it takes off you'll find some way to make money. In reality, I expect the fact that Google lucked into a way of printing money is more likely to be a once-a-decade event, and the future for most Web 2.0 start-ups is to make money only by getting taken over (Flickr, YouTube etc). Until then, these companies are "living on borrowed money," asValleywagputs it.The topic is being much discussed in the blogosphere now because of an article in the Financial Times:Web 2.0 fails to produce cash, which argues:The shortage of revenue among social networks, blogs and other "social media" sites that put user-generated content and communications at their core has persisted despite more than four years of experimentation aimed at turning such sites into money-makers.Some are still getting money in spite of belt-tightening in the downturn. The FT says:In one sign of the continued hopes for start-ups that have yet to alight on a solid business model, several financiers expressed support for the private fundraising being undertaken by Twitter, one of Silicon Valley's most talked-about companies. The "micro-blogging" service, whose users post messages no more than 140 characters long, has yet to find a way to make money, but its early adoption by a group of enthusiastic users is seen as a sign that it will eventually be successful.Of course, Twitter (formerly Twittr) might get bought by Google or Yahoo, in which case, problem solved.Indeed, probably two problems solved:it might work more of the time.
Actually, it's even worse than that. Dell has been found guilty of "fraud, false advertising, deceptive business practices and abusive debt collection practices in a case brought by the New York attorney general," reportsIDG News.Dell and affiliate Dell Financial Services also advertised special no-interest financing, but denied almost everyone those terms. It often sold customers products without informing them that they didn't qualify for the special financing terms and then charged them interest rates as high as 30 percent, the court said. . Dell and DFS also often incorrectly billed people for cancelled orders and for accounts they didn't authorize. The companies then harassed the people for payment, using illegal billing and collection practices, the court said.The court also found fault with Dell support. For example: "Subscribers to a 'next-day' repair service sometimes waited as long as a year for support, the court found."It's shameful stuff. Dell hasn't commented but clearly needs to respond in a substantial way.It would be interesting to know if these problems are restricted to the US operation. We have four Dells at home -- two desktops, two laptops -- and the service was brilliant on the one that went wrong.The law of large numbers comes into play, of course. Every PC company has a percentage of unhappy customers, and if you're shipping 40 million units a year, a 5% problem rate could lead to two million unhappy customers per year... unless you do a good job of fixing them.
Photo: EngadgetLast year, it wasGates and Jobs, and something of an event. To judge by Ryan Block'slive blogging for Engadget, yesterday's D conference discussion with Gates and the other Steve seemed comparatively boring.If you have time for video, All Things Digital has its own highlight reel (part oneandpart two).For the demo, Microsoft's Julie Larson-Green showedmulti-touchoperations in Windows 7. At last year's event, it was the Microsoft Surface.The New York Times'sBitsblog has a report.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
TheWomen in Games Conference, organised this year by Rare Ltd (yes, the ones who made Goldeneye, Banjo Kazooie, Perfect Dark and Viva Pinata) and the Department of Computer Science at the University of Warwick, are seeking papers from academics and industry professionals to present at the event on 10-12th September. But get in quick; the deadline's on 31st May!More information about what they're looking for is over the fold.They're looking for papers and speakers on the following areas:*Dressing up programming - is this the way to go? *Perception of Games Industry - what is it like to work in games? *Technology in schools - why do girls get turned off? *Development and Play - do women do it differently? *Education for Games, Games for Education *Seriously applying games for fun and profitMore information can be found on theWomen in Games websiteand theWomen in Games blog.
Belgian newspapers are pushing for up to &euro;49m (&pound;39m) in damages from Google for publishing and storing their content without paying or asking permission.Last year the search website lost a lawsuit filed by a number of French-language Belgian newspapers and was forced to remove their content which had been posted on Google News and stored in its search engine cache without the copyright owners' permission.Copiepresse, an organisation that represents the French and German language Belgian press, said yesterday it had summoned Google to appear again in September before a Brussels court that will decide on the claim for up to &euro;49.2m in damages.The newspaper copyright group called on Google to pay a provisional amount of &euro;4m.It said the losses were calculated by a professor at the University Libre de Bruxelles, based on articles stored via Google Search since 2001 and on Google News since it was launched in Belgium in 2006. The group suggested setting up a panel of Belgian experts to assess the figures if Google wanted to contest them.A Google spokesperson said: "We have not yet received anything from Copiepresse. We appealed the ruling of February 2007 and are awaiting the outcome of that case."Google has argued that search engines drive traffic to publishers' websites and that Google News never shows more than the headines, a few snippets of text and thumbnail images.Copiepresse began legal action against Google after links and summaries of articles from Le Soir and La Libre B&eacute;lgique appeared on Google.The Brussels court of first instance ruled in February 2007 that Google could not call on exemptions to copyright law, such as claiming publication of a few lines of text and links to the original page was "fair use".
Online, we can print the full text of your letters and blog pingbacks. So here's what we chose from to make theprint selection....APPLE AND DRM&gt;&gt; Personally, as long as the purchased content is DRM-free, I couldn't care less what other services they might offer with DRM'd content, and I would still caution anyone thinking of using them of the limitations of DRM. If the price for the DRM'd service reflects its much lower value due to the DRM, then maybe it's a nice alternative. I'll reserve judgment until something tangible is shown.p812.com/tire/&gt;&gt; What is interesting to me is the article neglects to look at what Microsoft is doing with Zune in regards to DRM. Just like Apple and Amazon - the Zune Marketplace also offers DRM-free music. Unlike Apple however, DRM-free music purchased in the Zune Marketplace is in MP3 and usable on any MP3 music device and playable in any piece of software really that supports playback of MP3's. Amazon offers DRM-free MP3's off their site as well. I'm not sure whether Amazon does digital watermarking for their MP3's but Zune does not do any digital watermarking for any MP3 music purchased in the Zune Marketplace. When I purchase any songs online - it's via the Zune Marketplace and in DRM-free MP3 format.brandonleblanc.com/blog/&gt;&gt; It's looking more and more like analysts may be worrying too much about DRM, and not enough about whether music services were actually useful to customers. Apple's iTunes store rose to prominence despite selling DRM'd music, and it's grown even more dominant as competitors have started selling non-DRM'd music. If the market demonstrates that there's an interest in subscription music services, Apple's likely to dominate the market with its own DRM'd offering.podcastingnews.com&gt;&gt; Microsoft is one of the largest sellers of DRM technology and has continually screwed it up badly. Microsoft purposely killed off Windows Media Player for the Mac in an attempt to lock out Macs and iPods from Microsoft's DRM as if they were the market leader. Making their own DRM not compatible with the iPod has proved to be a bad move.reelsmart.comGUARD YOUR LAPTOPSI was just wondering if you remove your hard drive from your laptop and store it in say … a camera case … do they have the right to sequester it? Peter Zarglis, Toronto&gt;&gt; This is so sad. The continued erosion of liberty is amazing. I think we need to wonder now how much longer we can expect the right to openly criticize bad government policy. It used to be the USA government looked down on "soviet block" spying on those visiting the country. That the leaders of the USA have so abandoned liberty is very sad.investing.curiouscatblog.net&gt;&gt; Does this worry anyone else as much as it does me?metafilter.com&gt;&gt; You know that things are really bad when a very public mainstream figure like Schneier is advising people on how to avoid and deceive their "protectors".ricardo.strangevistas.net&gt;&gt; Apparently that whole needing a search warrant thing doesn't apply to your laptop in an airport.bitteroldmann.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; For an agent to confiscate my laptop and go digging through it...it's like digging through my mind, my heart, my soul, because everything on my laptop is me and my life. I should start my own country.deviousdomain.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; The problem, here, lies in our own hands. It is us, as the general population, who allow these ridiculous and unacceptable laws to pass because of our cluelessness. We should take our governments for what they are - sly, conniving, manipulative groups of selfish individuals, and watch our backs.jamesburgess.co.uk/blog/&gt;&gt; Personally, I find this to be an intolerable violation. If I'm travelling with my laptop (as I do regularly), having it confiscated for even a few hours can make a serious dent into the value of my trip. Losing t for a few days would likely render much of a trip useless.pocketmojo.net&gt;&gt; The society that will allow something like this to happen won't do anything to circumvent it. If you would, you would have kept it from happening in the first place. It could be worse, I guess. They could be doing random cavity searches at the grocery store.infosprite.com&gt;&gt; Imagine the data they can gather from just combining cellphone adres books. They know who you know. And who knows you! If they ever need to do a background check, they can just visualize your whole social network!!blog.cone.be&gt;&gt; The only problem that I can see with purging everything is that since they don't need probable cause to begin with, the standards are so low that they could argue that you had something to hide because your laptop is pristine clean coming across the border and obviously not new.codemonkeyramblings.com&gt;&gt; How far do they have to go before we are so protected and safe that life becomes not only dull but run by an elite few? If they have my data, they could notionally run my life.digistories.co.uk&gt;&gt; Why should you trust them not to steal your credit card numbers, just because they're wearing a badge?hilbertastronaut.blogspot.comONLY CONNECT FRIENDS&gt;&gt; Controlling user data in the long run IS the KEY to getting to the top of the online world. Whoever puts out the best "must-have" application that integrates all of this open data from multiple sources, and present that information in a contextually meaningful interactive manner, will gain the most from the new openness.biz.penalicio.us&gt;&gt; Most importantly a Web 3.0 will continue to share what your friends are up to, live, as it happens in real time. Ultimately then things become more compact. More real. More about You.web2mediatalk.blogspot.comNO CARRIERIn today's Technology Guardian Andrew Brown extols the virtues of the Huawei broadband modem dongle. My experience is slightly different. I obtained one free a few days ago on an 18 month contract. When I came to use it, the line speed here in Bromley (only a few million miles from the Liverpool Street station blackspot mentioned in the article) was so bad that I couldn't even access the vendor's website. In addition, each time I tried to use the dongle in my new laptop, Windows crashed. I could have persuaded myself to live with the slow speed as the intention was to use it away from home. But the effect it had on my Windows Vista was a side-effect too far. I have returned the dongle and cancelled the contract. John Street, BromleyMUSCLE MUSEUMBack in January I bought my first PC. It has Vista HP and Office H&amp;S and I am 71. Like Charles Authur's friend, I balked at the new layout and short cuts in Word 2007. But the layout aims to offer relevant functions and although I use the mouse more, I am growing to like it. However, I find basic faults and simple compatibility problems in Word and Excel. A fault that Microsoft has twice viewed on my desktop is compressed and justified text that should be left aligned. I found this first when the Iris OCR program in HP's software for the G3010 scanner wrote to Word. But opening with Word 2007 an RT file Iris created has the same effect. Word 2003 does the latter too. And both Words do this with a RT file created by the Textbridge OCR in PaperPort 7.0 running under 2000. And they treat a normal hyphen as non-breaking. Later I found a licence agreement in RT that Word 2007 compressed and justified. The workaround is to Select All and Paste into a new document. But Microsoft has closed the case without a fix! Nor did they explain why small RT and doc files from Word 2007 are so much bigger; some 4 and 2 times their normal size. Yet a suite of large spread sheets and charts from Excel 2000 were only 55% as big in Excel 2007. But I had to open the old files directly from Excel, until I found it buried in the list of programs for Windows Explorer. More seriously, when I printed a graph on a spreadsheet with Excel 2007, a line and texts on the right were shifted 2% to the left. And when I saved in the old format and opened with Excel 2003, the vertical distance on the screen between texts and the font size were 7 and 12 % big. And only the chart printed! What is going on? Never mind the basics, enjoy the fancy features! George Talbot , WatfordI think the article touches on a matter of very great importance. Let's face it, most people have only a superficial knowledge of computers and they are not interested in the technical side, they just want to use them as tools, mainly for word processing. A good example is a friend of mine, a translator who works all day on his computer, who wanted broadband and was told his faithful old computer was not good enough. So he ordered a new computer, and asked for Word to be loaded on it. What he got was Vista and Word 2007 - what you might call a double whammy. (Incidentally I had to warn him to change the default document format or no-one would be able to load his work). When Windows first appeared, Microsoft did a commendable job in establishing a standard which all makers of software could follow. Office followed and each new version stuck to the rules and was evolutionary, so you could pick up the modifications/improvements in half an hour. Office 2007 has broken all the rules and there are serious questions as to whether all the modifications are improvements. Consider a young person setting out to learn business skills - does he/she learn the old Office or the new? If he learns the old, he may be regarded as not up-to-date with the latest software; if he learns the new, the chances are that when he starts work the employer uses only an old version and he will be helpless. I have loaded and unloaded 2007 twice in exasperation, finally I decided I should stick at it for several months so that I could not claim lack of familiarity - to no avail. There are several good things about it which could be incorporated in 2003, but I cannot see the point of it, unless Microsoft has some hidden commercial agenda. I know quite a few friends who have unloaded 2007. There are now various alternative options to Word, probably based on the groundwork carried out by Microsoft. It must surely be time for some authority (the EU?) to establish a standard for the 95% of word processing that is carried out and which is what most people need. By all means have special ones for people handling huge files or other special needs without encroaching on general usage. Many of the other changes to Office 2007 seem to have been done in a hurry and without thought, and more with the intention of creating some flashy new software. The great trouble is that we seem obliged to buy the new versions (particularly of the operating system) as the old no longer are available. However I am not sure I agree with you on muscle memory. The only virtue of 2007 I can think of is that at least you can carry on using hot keys and thus get round the cumbersome "Ribbon". For example, there used to be two Close buttons on the top right-hand-corner of Word, one to close the document and one to close the program. If you press the latter to get rid of your document and you do not realise it is the last one being processed, you unload the program. The easiest way to prevent this is to press Ctrl W (muscle memory). If this is so wonderful, why did they not do it to Excel which retains the two buttons? How long will it take for Microsoft to realise what a bloomer they have made. Louis Calvete, Welwyn Garden City&gt;&gt; I live and breathe keyboard shortcuts, so to have to learn new ones is a depressing thought. I've been on a Mac for nearly half a decade now, and I'm still learning new shortcuts, then having to unlearn them at work… The article is so true when it says you mould your software to your needs.brightmeadow.co.ukKNOCK ON WOODI stumbled acrossthis article from March 2007whilst searching on-line for information about wood pellet boilers. I am about to buy a wood pellet boiler so that I can reduce my reliance on fossil fuels, especially oil, and reduce our CO2 emissions. However, I can't help but think that pellets are not entirely 100% carbon neutral, if you consider the energy used to produce them. For instance, the pellet plant in Nottinghamshire referred to in the article, has to reduce virgin willow to sawdust, and then compress the sawdust to form pellets. Could you tell me how carbon neutral wood pellets really are, if you take these factors into account? 90%? 80%? Or less? Don't get me wrong, I am not knocking pellets, I only want to understand them better. Will Nichols (no post town given)OLD TIME ROCK'N'ROLLOK article, vaguely interesting nostalgic story unfortunately described in unschooled metaphors and ultimately i disagree with the sentiment. where is the economics? that record exec in his day was the big global publishing success story, he shafted more than his latest secretary and his long suffering wife and family, he shafted America for $15 for a paper and plastic CD which cost him 5 cents. artists famously did not make from the record deals but relied upon touring and sponsorship deals. i name Prince and George Michael as two high profile contractual rebellions. the monopoly profits from the global plastic and paper industries were obscene, real economic value stripped from our economies to pave desert palaces with gold. same metaphor as with OPEC, find Mecca replace with California hold that all technology has a road map with a forward vision of 20-40 years which is the time from conception to final market death. within the narrow scope of the business model, that record exec knew his business path from vinyl. he happily jumped to new formats such as tape, cd and dvd, and embraced the digital revolution. Richard Branson the father of the record industry famously does it with cable, telecoms, et al. the digital games industry is competing with the movie industry for turnover and today we are spending 10x our father's budget on digital media and entertainment. the global media monopoly still resides today in the same hands as it did 40 years ago your record exec fully understands his business is selling plastic and paper at marginal cost for abnormal profit. the arrival of digital copying at zero cost and decentralised digital distribution provides no opportunity for selling plastic and paper. he is a paper and plastic dinosaur, an awkward metaphor for the passing of a paper and plastic industry, a whinge from those wringing the last cent of value out of ancient technology. all of a sudden he is not interesting and HMV is looking shabby there is much whining and gnashing of dentures about trivial filesharing destroying industries but even a Harvard study could not link the demise of the traditional record industry with p2p. thankfully all the noise is coming from America where it is understood to be what it is, legalese from the land where the politician is in business and the state attorney is archbishop. the European Parliament has recently voted not to criminalise petty filesharers and the European Union invested €14 million in a research project to discover the potential of p2p with partners including the BBC, Delft University of Technology, the European Broadcasting Union, Lancaster University, and Pioneer. both Universal and Sony have stated they will release their entire back catalogues DRM-free the big dummy question. if we don't pay for our music or movies or games or software then how is it going to be made? recall warez has been around since the 70's and nobody sees a slow down in the software markets. tv did not destroy cinema, cd's did not destroy music, i pay $100 per month for my SkyHD, i own a pc, xbox 360, psp, ds, ps3 and Wii, and i buy ringtones and themes. there is more money today sucked into media consumption than at any previous time in media history, it is suddenly addictive, it is suddenly better value for money. Henry Lacadaemon, London
...Well, storm in a teacup anyway. According tothis piecefrom the New York Times, unknown actor Michael Hollick who voices GTA IV lead character, Niko Bellic, feels a little aggrieved that he won't be getting a share of the $600 million spoils (so far) from sales of the game. Hollick was apparently paid $100,000 over a period of 15 months for voicing obscenities into a microphone. But unlike with TV or the movies, actors don't get any royalties from game sales.It seems the Screen Actors Guild may soon be making a push for residuals (morehere), but do voice actors reallydeservethe same treatment as screen performers? I don't think so. Games aren't actor-centered, voice artists are tools in the process, like human versions of 3D Studio Max. Why is their talent any more valid or important than the artists who create the character models? Sure, there are someexcellent actors working in games, and several add real individualism and personality to their roles, but none of the people who bought GTA IV did it to catch the latest performance of Mr Hollick.
Guardian blogs editorKevin AndersonjoinsAleks Krotoskifor this week'sTech Weekly podcast. First off, the team discusses the newonline ratings system introduced by the British Board of Film Classificationand hear from Pete Johnson, head of policy and business development at the BBFC. Microsoft's UK security chiefEd Gibsonexplains what the firm is doing to fix the glitches in Vista, and we have the usual news and dip into the blogs.Feedback and your suggestions, as always, are very welcome.
After much scrutiny and consideration of the twenty-fourWikigame Puzzle Design Competition entries, our fantastic anonymous reviewers (IF and game design professionals) have decided on the following Top 5 puzzles based on blind review:Escape Podby Perrin (Our Grand Prize Winner!)The Torch, or Safecracking for Beginners by TinRobotThe "Shut that door! It's blowing a bloody gale through here!" Puzzleby cavalcadeThe Airlockalso by Tin RobotFixing the Generator - Saving Janitor Bot Bryanby DennisChowEach of our winners will receive one copy of the puzzle gameBoom Blox, designed by Steven Spielberg and EA. Our top winner - Perrin - will also receive a Nintendo Wii kindly donated by EA's promotions crew!The reviewers offer Honourable Mentions to the following puzzles:Fixing the Engine (or some other machine)from HambargarzThe Officer Suitability Space Personality Questionnairefrom the extremely prolific cavalcadeCongratulations to our winners and a hearty thank you and congratulations to everyone else who took part. All of the puzzles will be integrated intoSpaceship!, and so many thanks for taking part in our game design experiment.All puzzles been annotated with comments and scores on their discussion pages, so headhereto see the truly fantastic puzzles and read what our reviewers had to say about them.If you fancy contributing to our game design experiment, we're always looking for help. At the moment, we'd really like some assistance on content for two of the puzzles: theThe Officer Suitability Space Personality QuestionnaireandThe Distress Signal and the Idiot. Both of these need scifi-themed quiz questions.The OSSPQ needs questions based on well-known science fiction themes to assess the players' sociopathic tendencies. The answers the player chooses will result in a personality score, like this:An alien lifeform with acid for blood, large teeth and a hatred for spacefaring mammals has boarded your vessel. One by one it has murdered your fellow crew members in a variety of horrible ways leaving you alone in the last remaining space lifeboat. As you are about to launch you remember the shipboard spacegerbil is still alive.Do you:A) sacrifice the company owned spacegerbil (which is provided at great expense by the company for your mental wellbeing) and launch your escape raft leaving both it and the ship in the hands of an unstable and violent alien creature?B) sneak back into the ship to rescue the company owned spacegerbil (which is provided at great expense by the company for your mental wellbeing), and escape in the space lifeboat with your mammalian companion subsequently contacting your line manager to report the alien invasion and allowing him or her time to arrange an armed company exobiological liaison officer to enter the ship to negotiate with the violent inhuman acid blooded beast?C) return to the vessel, strip to your vest, and fight the alien singlehandedly with a self-built rifle and flamethrower to ensure the safe protection of your company owned vessel and spacegerbil (which is provided at great expense by the company for your mental wellbeing) ultimately causing minimal monetary impact on the company that has graciously provided the vessel for your safety and security and to encourage you to meet the profit targets of the company over the next financial year?You can contribute to this Quick Help here.If this is too much, we're also looking for quick and easy fact-driven multiple choice questions for Perrin'sThe Distress Signal and the Idiotlike this:Name the computer in 2001Complete this tagline: "In space no one can hear you _____"Complete this quote: "where we're going, you don't need ____ to see"Name the paranoid androidYou can contribute to this Quick Help here.You know there's loads of SciFi nonsense rattling around in that brain of yours - help us to flesh out the Wikigame with your boundless knowledge!
With just three staff all living in different cities, US indie studioPixeljammakes beautiful retro-flavoured browser games like Dino Run and Gamma Bros.I recently got some questions to programmer, Miles Tilmann and artist, Rich Grilloti about the philosophy behind their design style. They have some interesting points to make on the nature of game design in the age of near-photorealistic graphics and about the role of the player's imagination in the gaming experience.Part two tomorrow.Can you give us a background on Pixeljam? Where are you all based and is this your full-time jobRich:Pixeljam.com came about in the late '90s as an abstract pixel animation art experiment/site that I was playing with. In time, I began making little pixel people, and Miles was getting pretty good at Flash programming. We then realized we could probably make an actual game, so we started in 2004. Our friend Mark DeNardo had been making 8bit music for a while and he was also interested in contributing to the games we had begun making.It is a full time job now, and has been for a while, with breaks between game projects, however it's not something that supports us just yet. For most of the four or so years we've been in business, our money has come from our own independent design projects, some contract work through Pixeljam, actual selling of our stuff, odd jobs and other random ways we can support ourselves while we keep making games.Miles:Rich lives in Oregon now and I'm based in Chicago. Mark DeNardo lives in New York. We've been working virtually for some time now and it's worked out so far. Like Rich said, Pixeljam is our full time job but not financially. Sustaining ourselves on a free product is something we are always figuring our better ways to do. Mark and I compose and perform non-game-related music as well, and I do flash programming on the side to pay the rent.Can you give us a rundown of the games you've worked on as PixelJam?Rich:As far as our releases go, we have Ratmaze, Gamma Bros, Ratmaze 2 and Dino Run... and we have just as many half-finished, unreleased games, that may or may not go any further.We started out by designing a very ambitious game that was sort of like an action/adventure screen-to-screen role playing game, with controls similar to Robotron2084. For this game, I created loads of characters. I found a minimal pixel style I was enjoying and just ran with it. Eventually we realised it was too ambitious for us to actually complete, particularly without any funding, so we put it aside and figured out what to make instead. Since this game generated so many character designs, we chose the rat character and made Ratmaze in a short time, and then chose two more characters and made our first space shooter game, Gamma Bros, in about eight months or so.What's the philosophy behind Pixeljam? What have you set out to achieve with this company?Rich:Our philosophy Is to make fun games and have fun doing it. I think it's as simple as that. I want to make games that I would like to play. If I don't think it would be fun and exciting to me, I'm not interested in working on it.Additionally, we hope to have Pixeljam become something that supports us and we can work on full time, and expand as needed. We'd like to keep doing this, find better ways to do it, stop struggling to support ourselves and working so much, and find a balance with other aspects of our lives, like spending time with family and friends, being in nature, and exploring other creative projects.In time, we would like to explore the boundaries of what a game is and can be. We have interest in making some completely non-violent games (like Ratmaze). We have some ideas for a simple game with a couple of our characters about some sort of gardening mission that we may be making at some point. And some other shoot-em-ups are likely to be made as well, since they are enjoyable...However we try to make sure our games have some edge of humor and lightheartedness about them. We like to present our characters as if they have some self-awareness that they are videogame characters, and if their life ends, it's no problem. They know they will be back after next restart.Miles:In the beginning it seemed like it would just be good fun. Although over the past few years I've realised we now have a loud microphone in our hand and an audience of millions. I feel like there's a responsibility to make sure we are adding something positive to the world and not just churning out mindless crap as a vehicle to show people advertisements. Right now most people feel like you can't have a free product without littering it with ads and perhaps that's the case, but I'd like to think this is just the first awkward phase of a new type of business model. Hopefully we can be a small part of a larger movement towards a new economy where an individual decides what a product is worth to them instead of a large faceless consortium doing it for them.What are your key influences, both in terms of games, and game designers?Rich:Well, I was born in 1972 and was exposed to Pong and Vectrex, and then arcade games like Robotron 2084, Mario Bros, Marble Madness, Donkey Kong, Pac Man, Dig Dug and many others. When I was seven or eight my parents bought us the Atari 2600 as it first came out. I was amazed and pretty well hooked on video games ever since. Some newer games that I enjoy are Katamari Damacy, GTA, Super Mario, Legend of Zelda games, Tomb Raider, Shadows of the Colossus, God of War, Portal, SSX, Burnout and Halo.As far as influential game designers, for me Shigeru Miyamoto would rank pretty high. Warren Robinett (who made Adventure for Atari 2600 and who designed the first know "easter egg" in a video game), Hideo Kojima, Eugene Jarvis, Rieko Kodama and many others.Miles:I would say I was most heavily influenced by the Commodore 64 and the homebrew/demo scene that grew around that. At it's peak in the '80s I was too young and inexperienced to actually contribute anything, but I followed it obsessively for a few years. Although I can't remember any particular names besides Rob Hubbard, who in fact was not a game designer but a composer. However any game that had his music in it I was probably going to like, and his style of composition is permanently ingrained into my psyche.Your graphics style really reminds me of the C64 - it's very nostalgic and self-consciously retro is this intentional?Rich:Yes, it's intentional. I'm interested in creating games that are fashioned as if they came from an evolution of styles before 3-D took over. I'd like to make some much simpler Atari 2600-styled games eventually, and also go higher res, to the Sega Genesis and Super Nintendo styles too. All in good time.How do you go about creating this look?Rich:The style is probably saturated into my mental landscape at this point. As for how I actually do it, I create it all in Adobe Photoshop, including the frame-by-frame animations. It's a lot like doing puzzles sometimes, working with squares in these low numbers. I have to accept that things will be clunky and abstract.Once I do that, I'm usually amazed that things look like what I was trying to make in the end. My amazement is with the human brain much of the time, and the ability to make sense and "fill in the blanks" of such simplistic shapes to the point of recognizing what it's supposed to be. The context of where these things appear helps with recognition too. A small six-pixel rectangle on a little pixel table could be recognized as a cup, where it could be just about anything in a different context.Your games toy with traditional genres, but have quirky ideas and touches - again like the 8bit coders of old. Are you making an effort to get back to the individualism that led to games like, say, Attack of the Mutant Camels, Gibbly's Day Out, Thing on a Spring, etc?Miles:Ideally we'd like to help players (particularly younger ones) get in touch with their imaginations. A lot of kids growing up today are presented with entertainment that seems way too literal. All of the visuals are rendered in mind-blowing realism, the concepts are delivered without an ounce of subtlety or poetry and the whole package reeks of "product".The great thing about classic games (and anything that dabbles in the abstract) is the work your mind has to do to fill in gaps, like Rich previously explained. It allows for the individual to have a more personal experience with the medium instead of everyone having the exact same one. It's also good mental exercise, which most people probably need these days.Rich:I agree with Miles, the abstractness of the old-school style really does help the imagination stay active when playing. Particularly in the really old games. I remember when I'd get a new Atari 2600 game and see this fabulous painting on the box cover, and then turn on the game and see squares and basically a thing that looked nothing like the box art. So that's where my imagination was forced to bridge the gap. Retro games are a great imagination muscle-building tool.
Many of theteam who developed Haze- the new first person shooter for PS3 - also worked on Goldeneye for the N64. But while the latter is widely regarded as a classic, it looks likeHaze is anything but. Released last Friday Haze has beenwidely panned, with critics deriding the visuals, story and AI. Big budget titles rarely suffer such hard hitting reviews - especially shooters, that most conservative of genres. I've been on holiday since Weds and have only had time to play for a couple of hours but my initial impressions appear to have been backed up by the review scores. I'm still reserving judgement but things don't look good. And remember, Haze was a PS3 exclusive, a game expected to show off the power of Sony's console. Hmm. So, Haze then? Played it? Loving it? Or is it as disappointing as the reviews suggest?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
If you can spot all the memes in Weezer's pop video then you have clearly spent too much time onYouTube* when you could have been playing darts....* Or on blogs that repost YouTube videosUpdate: As Pobman points out in a comment (thanks!), it's a bit of a rip-off ofthis one, but much better done.
TechCrunch says: "Sometime soon, perhaps this week, Facebook will turn the year-old Facebook Platform into an open source project, multiple sources have told us. The immediate effect will be to allow any social network to become Facebook Platform compatible -- meaning application developers can easily take their Facebook applications and have them run on those social networks, too."Expect to see the four major technical pieces of Facebook Platform -- FMBL (markup language), FQL (query language), FJS (Javascript library) and the Facebook API to be open sourced and made available to anyone.Michael Arrington sees this as a response to Google's Open Social:This is a nearly inevitable response to Open Social, which is backed by Google, MySpace and Yahoo. Open Social is also an open source platform, run the the Open Social Foundation.Exciting news for people writing vampire biting applications, possibly....
Small video devices with big screens can help people who are losing their sight, according to The New York Times. Examples include theSenseView Duoand theQuicklook Focus, above.The story says:Dr Bruce P. Rosenthal, chief of low-vision programs at Lighthouse International in Manhattan, which offers services for people with vision loss, said the portable magnifiers, with their built-in illumination and powerful electronics, have many advantages over traditional optical devices like magnifying glasses. "Optical devices can't increase the contrast like these devices," he said. "Loss in contrast causes as many problems as loss of visual acuity." . Electronics in the new devices can make black print darker, or switch black lettering on white to white lettering on black -- which some people with macular degeneration prefer.One drawback is the price. "They typically cost $700 to $1,300, and Medicare and most private insurance plans usually do not pay for them, said Robert McGillivray, low-vision specialist at the Carroll Center for the Blind in Newton, Mass."
What if women ruled the world? Would Oprah Winfrey's face be on banknotes? Would Sex and The City's Carrie Bradshaw run the Pentagon? Would racing cars be pink? Would the electric chair have cushions? You can imagine the possibilities, or you can go to theWorth 1000site and see them in  glorious colour, thanks to the modern phenomenon known as Photoshopping. With Adobe's digital manipulation program, or something similar, people can make realistic images of almost anything.Worth 1000 - named because a picture is worth a thousand words - holds a continuous stream of Photoshopping competitions. It sets themes and members do their creative best. Visitors comment and vote so the best rise to the top and the worst are culled. The result is usually a gallery of one or two dozen images that are well worth seeing. The site has been public since January 1, 2002, so there are now hundreds of thousands of them."If Women Ruled" is a typical theme, and Worth 1000 has five galleries based on that idea. Of course, "if X ruled" allows for endless variations. What if dogs ruled? We've also enjoyed the rule of babies, Canadians, cowboys, geniuses, goths, hackers, hippies, little girls, mime artists, pimps, pirates, rednecks, the Amish, the dead, and even Trekkies.Celebrities are another great source of material, and galleries of what celebrities would look like if they had a sex change or went bald have been republished in newspapers. Advertisements, classic paintings (or "Ren") and popular movies are also grist to the mill. Worth 1000 is where you can see Ron ("Is your wand not working like it should?") in an advert for Wizagra, while Hermione features on the Official Harry Potter Home Pregnancy Test kit ("Works like magic"). Click on Galleries and look for Harry Potter Everything in the index under H.Lots of entries are based on familiar paintings such as American Gothic, the Mona Lisa, Edvard Munch's The Scream, and Van Gogh's room in Arles. Just add an iPod, a TV set, or a copy of Playboy. Although Photoshopping is the core of Worth 1000, the site also runs competitions for photography, multimedia and text. There are tutorials and competitions for beginners, and "head to heads". There's the option to pay (in site credits) to enter some contests for the chance to win a jackpot. Companies can also offer cash prizes if they want a new logo design, for example.You have to register to get the best out of Worth 1000, otherwise you can't see the images full size. Also, registering lets you add pictures to a favourites list, so you can find them again. Even better, you can see who else favourited the same pictures, and then look at thumbnails of all their favourites. This can be a quick way to find the sort of images you like.Of course, while you can spend a lot of time looking at images on Worth 1000, it can take even longer to produce them. But everyone is welcome to have a go.
On the few occasions I met Tony Blair, I was impressed that he remembered my name and, moreover, a TV column I wrote for the New Statesman many years ago.When I last saw him, he said "We must keep in touch," which, given that he had never invited me to one of his famous soirees, I assumed was a sign that he was moving on to the B list, now he was no longer in office.Tony knew the power of TV. One great moment was his speech about "the people's princess" on the day Diana died; his other was on YouTube's Downing St channel, welcoming the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, to office with a speech in French. Well, I think it was a welcome, but my French is limited. For all I know, it could have been along the lines of: "Congratulations on pulling such a gorgeous bird, though how you did it, given your height and an unpredictable wife hovering in the background (we've all been there, mate) is anybody's guess."It has had almost 200,000 views, and when you want to reminisce about the good old days, the Downing St channel is there as your comfort blanket.Now Gordon has decided he wants a slice of the TV action, and as well as offering "exclusive films from No 10 and the British prime minister", he has launched Ask the PM, where viewers are invited to submit questions to be answered at the end of June. Video questions must be no more than one minute long and, be warned, "no party political content, please". So, here's my first question: why no party political content?Gordon promises to respond to the most "popular" questions and offers some suggestions: "how globalisation's working, what's happening to climate change" - The Simpsons it ain't gonna be. "I think it's time the public had a chance," he continues. "I'll be back to talk to you at some point soon."And it's sooner than you think, for elsewhere on the channel, Gordon "invites you to debate the big issues". Standing before a hideous mantelpiece, laden with even more hideous figurines, he repeats his performance as thePeople's Prime Minister and even takes Frasier Crane's catchphrase from the TV sitcom Frasier ("I'm listening") to push home his point - "We are listening."Gordon is not too bad a TV performer - though he clearly suffers from nerves more than Tony and forgets to straighten his tie before facing the camera, he certainly comes across as more genuine. His commitment to young people and the greater part he wants them to play in society comes through again and again in the short films in a way that it never would at a conference, or even in the Commons; and he is also rather touching when he tries to keep his finger on the pulse of popular culture - not least, in a slightly surreal film when he talks to Simon Cowell and last year's Britain's Got Talent winner, Paul Potts, over tea.Chatting to Cowell by another hideous mantelpiece, Gordon again stresses the importance of young people and his desire to have every institution asking themselves: "What have we got here?" "Totally agree," says Cowell. "Absolutely." Cowell always agrees with everything everyone says (he's the best politician in Britain), but you could still feel Gordon glow in the presence of the money ... I mean, talent-maker.Clearly more technically savvy than David Cameron, Gordon is good news for the Downing St channel, but he must learn to relax on screen. The only time I met him was in the Groucho Club in London and he was intelligent, sexy (yes, sexy), charming, funny and totally engaging. That's the man I want to see more of on TV. In the meantime, here's another question, Gordon: can I come to one of your soirees?
New York Times photo shows Miyamoto on Wii FitThe New York Times has a feature on the modest and charming Shigeru Miyamoto that likens him to Walt Disney. "The father of Donkey Kong, Mario, Zelda and, most recently, the Wii" has a stunning track record in the games business.The story says:Mr Miyamoto's work is evolving from a reliance on invented characters and fanciful, outlandish settings like Mario's Mushroom Kingdom or Zelda's mythical Hyrule. With games like Nintendogs (inspired by his pet Shetland sheepdog), Wii Sports, Wii Fit and coming next, Wii Music, Mr Miyamoto is gravitating toward everyday hobbies: pets, bowling, yoga, Hula-Hoop, music. It is as if an artist who had mastered the abstract had finally moved into realism. . "I would say that over the last five years or so, the types of games I create has changed somewhat," he said. "Whereas before I could kind of use my own imagination to create these worlds or create these games, I would say that over the last five years I've had more of a tendency to take interests or topics in my life and try to draw the entertainment out of that."Miyamoto was in the US promoting Wii Fit. Actually, I preferthe video....
ArtistErik Nordenankarsays he has created theBiggest Drawing In The World. He says he gave DHL a case and travel instructions for a 55-day journey, then traced the route using GPS. The route was more than 100,000km long and went through 62 countries. The result was a self-portrait.There's a big picturehere.It could be a hoax, of course [update:it is], but if so, it's a very good one. Nordenankar has documentation on his web site, including the video below....
Skoda Octavia Scout&pound;17,844Miles per gallon:47.9Seats:5Good for:Field tripsBad for:Guilt tripsWhenever a new Skoda hits the market, motoring journalists across the land receive a baking tin, cake mixture and cooking instructions in the post, along with the press release detailing the new Skoda's strengths - clearly there are never any weaknesses. But thinking about it, isn't cake an odd thing to equate a car with? I can see freedom, practicality, the thrill of speed, driver satisfaction... but cake? Still, people like cake and people certainly like Skodas. In every annual motoring award going, from Auto Express to What Car? and Top Gear, Skoda has made a habit of winning big. But the award that says most about the brand's astonishing renaissance is the JD Power Survey of Customer Satisfaction. In the past 12 years, Skoda has never been out of the top five - and in the most recent survey came second only to the super-luxe marque, Lexus, beating all the other 31 car manufacturers in the league - from Audi through to VW.The cake tin I received this week heralded the arrival of Skoda's latest variation on its award-hoovering Octavia - the Scout. But I couldn't help thinking the press team should have sent out a scout badge instead. A quick look at the 70 awards today's dyb-dyb-dybbers can win had me reaching for my woggle. Nowadays everything from Aeronautics and Circus Skills to Entertainer and something called Pulling is up for grabs.However, given the Octavia's prodigious off-road abilities, Orienteering and Survival Skills will be high on your list. The Scout is a new bulked-up version of the marque's original 4x4 - an alarmingly inconspicuous estate car which just happened to have the ability to drive anywhere. The new Scout takes this can-do attitude to the rigours of modern civilian life and bolts on a handful of superficial cues to make the car look the part.It's marginally longer than the original, but it now features a muscular body and elevated ride height. The side panels are fitted with extra protective body mouldings which make it look like a padded-up American footballer. There is also a revised suspension system and underbody 'bash plates' - so you can take those speed bumps without thinking you've left the exhaust on the road behind you.This is not an off-roader that will go head to head with the overdeveloped ego of a Chelsea tractor. This is a working car. A motor for farmers and vets and country folk who think that dirt is something you find on the ground rather than on an internet gossip site. It's a rugged vehicle for the daily grind of rural life, which just happens to look like a proper car.The Octavia comes with a choice of petrol and diesel engines, though as this car is as practical and straightforward as a ploughman's, it's the latter that'll dominate sales. You can't argue with 50 miles to the gallon.Finally, a confession. When asked to recommend a cheap, stylish car that does the job, my default is to say: 'You won't go wrong with a Skoda.' Well, after another week behind the wheel of another Skoda, I can tell you that advice isn't going to change.martin.love@observer.co.uk
It was the first day of real heat, and after the cows were milked Dad said we'd go to the beach at Ballybunion. Mam made sandwiches; the girls started to hunt for nine sets of swimming togs while the boys retrieved mouldy deckchairs from the garage rafters and tried to find a ball they wouldn't mind losing. The boot in the front of the Beetle was jammed with all of this - along with buckets and spades, a teapot and a radio for the match. Dad driving; Mam in the front with a toddler; four in the back seat; another by the handbrake, facing backwards, and one more in the space behind the back seat - what we called 'the back of the back' - nine of us in all. The maroon plastic seats made sweaty patterns on our legs and the elastic of togs we'd grown too big for left tracks on our shoulders. Our top speed was 40mph, and the wind would eventually whirr through, cooling the little moving dome, at least for a while. And then our first glimpse of the sea, vast and sparkling. For the snaking jam of families in Beetles, Hillmans and Cortinas, an oasis.&#183;Send your trip tojourneys@observer.co.uk
The Babbage Difference EngineMicrosoft's Channel 10 has a report on aBabbage Difference Enginewhich Tim Robinson, from the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, California, built out ofMeccano. The video shows it working. The Computer History Museum is showing the "real thing": in fact, it's showing the second example built by the Science Museum in London, since Babbage didn't attempt to construct one himself.The Difference Engine was designed in 1847-1849, and No 2 was completed in March 2008, packed up and flown out from Heathrow. It's 11ft long, 7ft high, and has 8,000 parts made from bronze, cast iron and steel. It will be on display at the Computer History Museum until May 2009.No 2 was actually financed by and built for Nathan Myhrvold, who used to be chief technology officer at Microsoft. He's planning to put it in his living room, but is lending it to the museum first. I believe he also owns aConnection Machine, the pioneering massively-parallel supercomputer designed by Danny Hillis. Well, he has a little one, with only 16,384 processors.The construction of both Difference Engines was supervised at the Science Museum byDoron Swade, who is now working as Guest Curator at the Computer History Museum. He's curating a huge Timeline exhibition on the history of computing, which is due to open in October 2009.Yes, it's a pity the Science Museum can't do things like that. Still, it has some good stuff stowed in old aircraft hangers....
Is it possible to use a Dell printer with a Mac? I have a Dell 968w which works fine with the PC running Windows XP but I can't find a driver for the MacBook anywhere.The short answer is no. Dell printers are notoriously unfriendly to Apple machines, and even though it may be possible to get some models to shake hands, those occasions are like hen's teeth. And it's not just Dell you need to watch out for: I recently fell foul of this problem myself when I thought I had spotted a bargain HP laser printer, only to discover that it wasn't Apple compatible.Reel-to-reel tapes: readers respondAfter we advised on copying reel-to-reel tapes to computer, several readers got in touch. Tom O'Leary recommends Xitel's INport, which costs around &pound;60 and should give high quality output: the extra cost is 'a good measure of how much you think "archiving" is worth balanced against musical enjoyment'. The &pound;10 DIN to phono cable from Maplin we suggested (icanhaz.com/din) remains a viable budget option: 'It looks very handy,' John Allcock says. 'With back-to-back phono adapters and a phono to jack lead, it should cover any wiring configuration.'&#183;Email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
About four years ago, I shelled out the best part of 300 quid for a piece of kit that transferred vinyl to compact disc. I'd come to the conclusion that some of my albums were too obscure to be re-released on CD (Some Marvels Of Modern Science by the Diagram Brothers, anyone?) and if I wanted to listen to them on my iPod or in the car, such an investment was entirely necessary. So the devices currently being advertised through the lifestyle pages of magazines and Sunday papers hardly represent some kind of technological breakthrough, though they are substantially cheaper these days and a darn sight niftier.The Ion LP Dock (&pound;129.99,Maplin) is one such device. It's basically a turntable with a USB connector which, via a program called MixMeister, imports albums or singles straight into iTunes. From belt drive to hard drive, I might have said, had I been sitting in a brainstorming session in Ion's marketing department. It's a doddle to set up, a little exciting even, taking me straight back to the time when I'd saved up enough pocket money to buy my first Fidelity record player. So I enjoy balancing the tune arm with the counter weight and scale ring, and I enjoy slotting the platter on to the spindle, and I enjoy calibrating the anti-skate adjuster, and I enjoy securing the pre-mounted cartridge and headshell to the tube of the tone arm via the locking nut. And when I'm required to slip my finger through a slot in the platter to hook the rubber belt on to the brass drive shaft, I feel for a moment like a model steam engine enthusiast at a village fete tinkering with his pride and joy - a feeling that is worryingly agreeable.Unlike most contemporary turntables which are black (to match the polo-neck sweaters of their Wire-reading owners) the LP Dock has no such pretensions. The one I'm testing is constructed from unapologetically cheap, silver and grey plastic with tin-coloured trim, and looks like a missing hubcap from the lunar module. So if it's a sleek bit of furniture you're after to complement your Bang &amp; Olufsen separates, forget it. I set it up on my desk between printer and scanner, which seems like its natural home, and realised again how gratifying it is to be working with analogue technology and manual controls - to see the mechanics at work, rather than trust to invisible and incomprehensible quantum wizardry.Thinking I'd throw it in at the deep end, I decide to road test the LP Dock with that most sacred and revered piece of vinyl, the 12-inch single, and not just any 12-inch single but Bob Hope Takes Risks by Rip Rig + Panic (with the razor blade and the eyeball on the back cover). The needle glides through the grooves, not even deflected by 20-year-old sticky fingerprints and the occasional scratch. Then there's a bit of whirring and chirring while Gracenote namechecks the song, the file is converted and deposited in iTunes, and Bob (Hope) is your uncle. There's even a docking station on the actual turntable for mainlining songs straight into your MP3 player, but this works only with fifth-generation iPods, and my own model is aboriginal.There are a few nagging issues, mainly to do with the audio input/output. The LP Dock wants to de-select the computer's sound card as the playback device every time it's used, which leads to a puzzling and worrying silence. The first time this happened I was only moments away from dialling the software support helpline which, as we all know, is but a prelude to suicide. The gain knob is located underneath the turntable at the back, making it impossible to adjust recording levels when the device is in operation and pretty tricky even when it isn't. And even when I did manage to snake my hand around the wires and recesses at the rear, I still couldn't get quite enough volume out of it. It also puzzles me that the LP Dock has no lid or dust cover. So at night, when I'd switched off, I draped a tea towel over it, which is what people did with budgie cages in the 70s before they retired to bed.&#183;Stephen Fry will return in July.
As the hymn begins, "Now let us all with one accord..." But which one? The 2.4 litre i-VTEC petrol Accord, with its smooth power and confidence-enhancing acceleration? Or the more frugal and politically acceptable, but still punchy, 2.2i-DTEC diesel derivative, with its satisfying economical fuel returns and relatively benign emission figures? The hymn doesn't say.Make up your own mind with this new range, the eighth generation of the car Honda first produced in 1976 to promote "harmony between people, society and the automobile". Are you sniggering? As that other hymn asks, "What's so funny about peace, love and competitively priced Japanese saloon cars?"In fact, the Accord began life as a three-door hatchback, only later developing into a series of angular, fairly low-rent four-doors, an extraordinary proportion of which, once had they had 90,000-plus miles on the clock, were destined to know favour as seemingly deathless, unlicensed minicabs.Check out the enviable class and swank of this new one, though, with its wide, low-lying body, its finishing-school angles and swish interior. Here is a car built by people who have clearly spent a lot of time clustered enviously around BMWs in car parks, taking notes. It should finally shrug off any association the model may still have with the pavement outside a taxi base.Your Accord also comes bursting with safety gadgets, starting with the Collision Mitigation Braking System. When sensors detect that you are heading at speed towards something unhelpfully solid, the car brakes on your behalf.This is in addition to the Lane Keeping Assist System - a variation on a gimmick now quite widely in use in which sensors keep a weather-eye out for un-signalled lateral drifting across white lines, signs that the car reasonably interprets as evidence that you've nodded off or started going through the pockets of the jacket hung in the back window, looking for your Tic Tacs. But where other cars stop at letting out an alarmed shriek or offering a quick wake-up shock via the steering wheel, the Accord goes a step further and begins to wrestle the steering back straight.Or what about Adaptive Cruise Control, which "can maintain a set speed like a conventional cruise control but, in addition, can also automatically control vehicle speed and distance relative to the car in front"? Heck, the Accord even has Trailer Stability Assist, which spots your attached caravan/boat/fairground ride beginning to yaw and uses a "combination of torque reduction and individual wheel braking to bring the car and trailer back under control". Magic.And let's not overlook the Motion Adaptive Electric Power Steering, which "automatically initiates steering inputs aimed at prompting the driver to steer in the right direction". It'll be picking the radio station next. Call me paranoid, but isn't this what we used to call "driving"?Well, get over it, because this is the future, clearly - slipping along with our hands behind our heads, loudly yawning as our car moderates between us and the braking lorry ahead. "Now let us all with one accord..." indeed. Lacks a little of the old drama? Well, maybe. But we're safer. And in nicer cars.Honda Accord 2.2 i-DTEPrice£21,060Top speed131mphAcceleration0-62 in 9.6 secondsAverage consumption50.4mpgCO2 emissions148g/kmEco rating7/10
MondayEndwar takes the RSI out of RTSTuesdayWii up for grabs: design a puzzle for the WikigameWednesdayBBFC gets heavy with online ratingsNintendo DS as cooking buddyJack Thompson in misconduct shockerThursdayN-Gage: good news and bad newsFridayNew Media AwardsWii and Boom Blox Wikigame Design Competition update
Jessica Alba is hot, Britney Spears is third in the Top 20, and Amy Winehouse is 10th, according to another unknown feature of Microsoft Live Search:Celebrity xRank(beta). The About says:Celebrity xRank provides a fun and fast way to follow the fickle finger of fame. Drawing from a big list of celebs, you and all other Live Search users determine whether a certain someone rises or falls in the rankings. We compare searches throughout the day for Hollywood heavyweights, radio darlings, trend-setters, athletes, politicians, and other notables. The result is a cultural snapshot of who's hot and who's not.If you click on Videos (see screenshot, above) then you get the roll-over effect mentionedbelow.However, CxR doesn't haveHilary Hahn, orEvgeny Kissinand evenNigeis only in 6,463rd place, so the results clearly need expanding and breaking into subcategories.But the idea could be used for a wider range of celebrities, including footballers etc, if it gets some sort of following among pop fans. Which seems far from likely unless Microsoft does, say, a widget that lets fan sites add it to their own pages.
Microsoft has announced that it'sabandoningBook Search (ie search inside a book) and Academic Search as separate products:Today we informed our partners that we are ending the Live Search Books and Live Search Academic projects and that both sites will be taken down next week. Books and scholarly publications will continue to be integrated into our Search results, but not through separate indexes.This also means that we are winding down our digitization initiatives, including our library scanning and our in-copyright book programs. We recognize that this decision comes as disappointing news to our partners, the publishing and academic communities, and Live Search users.Howcome? Becasuewe believe the next generation of search is about the development of an underlying, sustainable business model for the search engine, consumer, and content partner. For example, this past Wednesday we announced our strategy to focus on verticals with high commercial intent, such as travel, and offer users cash back on their purchases from our advertisers.Oh,thatsustainable business model - the one where you pay people money to use you. Not the one used by some other companies where you get advertisers to pay to appear alongside possibly relevant search results.Google must feel like a more triumphant version of Arthur Dent in The Hitch-Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy, as he lies down in front of the bulldozer threatening his house: "I'm game - let's see who rusts first." (Yes, I know how that turns out, but bear with me.) Microsoft can't hack it competing directly with Google, it seems, so it's trying something - though it begins to feel like anything - that's the same, but different. Except not different enough. The bulldozer rusts.In the words of Danny Sullivan atSearchengineland,Google somehow seems to be able to run a sustainable business model and devote some energy and resources into indexing books and scholarly information, even if those generate little to no revenue. They do it in part because they think it's good business to provide all types of searches, not just those that will earn them money.In other words, getting market share wins because it drives your rivals into smaller and smaller niches.This is something that I thought Microsoft might have figured out.Ultimately though it feels like Microsoft is trying to fight the wrong fight with Google. Google didn't get big by trying to make a better office suite than Microsoft. It got big by doing something Microsoft wasn't doing. Microsoft is behaving as though the way to go is to try to beat Google. Mistake, I think, especially when the forecast is thatGoogle's search revenue will outpace Microsoft's Windows revenue in 2009.Instead, if Steve Ballmer were really thinking ahead in the manner of a visionary CEO, he'd be trying to see what the thing after search is.Which is... what? Tell him here so he can save Microsoft. (Note: we're not certain that Steve Ballmer reads this blogeveryday, so you might have a little time to ponder this.)
Oh, look, people arequeueing already for the next-generation iPhone- the one that hasn't been announced, whose existence can only be inferred by the behaviour of those around it. Truly the second-generation iPhone is theHiggs bosonof today's technology world: huge amounts of effort being put into deducing its existence from the tiniest clue.While this metaphor does put Steve Jobs into the putative position of the creator of the universe – a position that his fans and even he might be comfortable with – it tends to leave aside a question that seems worth examining. With Apple'sWorldwide Developers Conferencestill more than two weeks away (it starts on Monday June 9), and pretty much every fan in the Apple constellation scratching their chin and saying "Wouldn't it be cool if iPhone 2 hadthis?" (where "this" may be GPS, 12-megapixel camera, video, Skype, a battery that goes 20 days between recharges, an FM radio and a coffeemaker with optional taser attachment for when you find yourself in the wrong side of town.And pretty quickly it goes from "wouldn't it be coolif" to searches for evidence that will back up these slightly off-beam theories. It's like science, except less scientific, since it's trying to wish something into existence, rather than accept that some things don't exist. (If you want to see it in action, have a look atthis Macrumors thread, which goes from a little item on Gizmodo and spins off into 20-plus pages of forum-driven supposition, theory, fact-gathering and world-class generating of castles in the air.For future referenceSo let me give you my guide to knowing what Apple's going to release next. These methods, supplied free of charge, can be used when any hubbub builds up over what Apple is going to do next in some field or other.1) What Apple produces never has as many bells and whistles as fans forecast.People constantly overlook the fact that Apple cleaves to the belief that something is finished not when you can't add anything, but when you can't take anything away. The (first) iPhone doesn't do voice dialling, speed dialling, video, doesn't offer camera options, can't forward SMS, and doesn't offer multiple selections. (Seethe full list.) It just does a few things. Quite well, apparently.2) The user interface receives far, far more attention than people ever expect.Most of the world that uses computers is familiar with Microsoft's Windows, which means that people are inured to dialog boxes that could, with a bit of effort, be turned into medium-sized blog posts, and preference boxes that offer more options than a futures market. Apple doesn't do this. It pares down the interface (rather as it does with the hardware) to the bare minimum. "Timeout error", Mac OS X tells me when it can't connect to my home wireless network. This has a lot to recommend it over the Windows message, which goes something like "Windows was unable to connect to the network My Home Network due to an error whose cause could not be ascertained". (Either way I know I have to just power-cycle the router.)3) It will only include surprising new technology if it's been standardised but neglected a while.USB only became popular because the first iMac used it, but it had been around a while. Wi-Fi got its big kick through being built in to the first iBook, but wasn't new; Dell was able to follow almost at once because 802.11b was a ratified standard. Bluetooth got itsfirst big break for computers(it was already all over mobile phones) in Mac OS X in March 2002. None of them new; but Apple was able to see ways to make good use of them.4) It will cost more than you might wish.This is axiomatic of things that come from Apple, because it knows that it caters to a market that is prepared to spend more on good design. This always leads to one corner of the tech market complaining that "it's so EXPENSIVE!" as though nothing expensive could possibly sell. This is a category mistake. Apple isn't in the technology business to rule the world; it's in it to make stonking profits. Neither precludes the other. Ask the PC companies that make tiny margins making commodity hardware.5) The leaks and rumours in the rumour outlets are, by and large, wrong - or at least so plentiful that it's impossible to tell the correct from the daft.The iPhone was going to have a sliding keyboard. It would have a touch screen. It would do 3G. It would only do GSM. It would have GPS. It would run Linux. There's no end to the speculation, and just because someone overheard someone who was using an Apple laptop saying it doesn't make it true.The next generationWith that all in mind, let's get to the meat. What can we therefore expect in iPhone 2.0? My calculations, based on all the noise going on, are:·a three-megapixel camera. Cheap upgrade, people will herald its "50% better" picture quality.·video. Easy, because it can already do this.·possibly, just possibly, WiMax. A few places have this, and it's just the kind of out-there technology that might find a use. But I'd put the chances at about 5%.·3G connectivity. Cheap, obvious, essential for its Far Eastern launch coming later this year.·better Bluetooth profiles. Obvious incremental upgrade.·voice and speed dialling. Easy, incremental upgrades based on phone software. Apple's had more than a year to work on this.What won't be there:·SMS forwarding. Americans don't understand SMS, and aren't about to start now.·GPS. Expensive, sucks power, imprecise, and isn't standard on the vast majority of phones, so Apple isn't losing by not using it.·a cheap one.If you'd like to believe that I've got inside information about Apple's plans, go right ahead. The reality is that I've just spent ages watching the company, and know what it's like. Come back in a couple of weeks and we'll see if I'm right, won't we?
Now there's a new way to manipulate video: you can apparently "grab" on-screen objects and move them backwards and forwards, though actually you are only moving the video backwards and forwards. A "hint path" shows how the object can be moved.The DimP direct manipulation player has been developed by the University of Toronto'sDynamic Graphics Project. It's written in Microsoft's C# lanugage. There's an explanation in the video below.Obviously this has the potential to be a big hit in the porn market.Found viaTechCrunch
Samsung has announced a one terabyte eco-friendly hard drive with low power features, partly because it only uses three platters. Thepress releasesays: "The EcoGreen F1 will launch in the second quarter of 2008 with a MSRP of $199."That's currently a good price for what it offers: you can get a 1TB drive for $200 fromAmazon.combut you can also pay up to $600. (The cheapest is around £120 at Amazon.co.uk.) By next summer, however, prices will be lower.A 1TB drive will store about the same as 1,500 CD-R discs, but you'll still need backups.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
The Wikigame'sPuzzle Design Competitiondeadline istonightat midnight GMT. Add your puzzle entry to the growing list of submissionshere, and enter your chance to win a Wii and Boom Blox, the new game from EA/Steven Spielberg!The entries are simply incredible thus far, and we have a wide spectrum of challenges, from twists on the Turing Test to morality problems to hacking through password protection. I am bowled over by the creativity.Check outthe plot questionsand see how can you contribute to the fabric of the game. More information is in theSynopsis. Winners will be announcedTuesday(NOTE: rather than Monday - a bank holiday) after the puzzles are scrutinised by a team of game development and IF professionals.Get on it!
For the past ten years, theNew Statesmanhas been holding aNew Media Awardsceremony every summer, celebrating the best of the technology-in-action that's arisen over the previous year. I sat on the awards board last year and noticed the dearth of game-like and interactive experiences that were up for gongs (although Futurelab'sCreateAScapedid win in the Education category), and that's where you and your extensive knowledge about games comes in.When digital technologies intersect with civic life, they can impact a small community or an entire nation. The awards aim to recognise those that both realise the potential of new media technology and have the commitment and stamina to effectively execute their ideas.We are looking for technology touching lives.Anyone can nominate a site or software, and the nominations are open until 1st June. So if you can think of an interactive something that you feel has been a benefit to civil life that falls into one ofthese categories, please do submithere.
Your report championing the rise in rural broadband availability (Fears of digital divide groundless as online access soars in rural areas; Countryside is better connected than cities, May 22) unfortunately misleads the reader. While it is true that broadband use within the British countryside has recently soared, with 59% of people connected, this figure fails to take connection speed into account. Most consumer broadband providers offer 2Mbps (megabits) per second or 8Mbps, with those who cannot receive these connections required to pay the same price. Large parts of rural Britain are unable to receive faster connection speeds and as such are stuck paying higher prices for lower service.The digital revolution is readily welcomed in rural communities and is a great step forwards for rural enterprise, but such unfairness in connection speeds must be addressed by broadband providers. Rural people deserve the same service provided in urban areas, and should not have to suffer simply because of their location.Simon HartChief executive, Countryside AllianceAn interesting side-effect of living in the city with the highest proportion of broadband internet connections - I am now finding that nine out of 10 families involved in the funerals I conduct have the facility to send me by email tributes and readings for me to use during the service.The advantages of this are mutual: I get text which is typed and therefore legible; and they get to use my ink and my paper!Fr Chris CollinsSt Aidan's Vicarage, Sunderland
Demand for violent videogames and an increase in households using only mobile phones, helped prevent retail sales falling as much as forecast last month, according to official figures out yesterday.The Office for National Statistics said sales of Grand Theft Auto IV, which involves kidnapping, stealing cars and gunning down police, partly offset weak food and home improvement sales to give a second small monthly fall in overall sales volumes.Retail sales fell 0.2% in April compared to March. Analysts had predicted a 0.5% decline. Food sales decreased by 1% by volume during the month, the largest fall since August 2006. This brought the annual increase down to 4.2% from an upwardly revised 4.7% in March.The launch of Wii Fit, Nintendo's new exercise game, and an increase in the number of people purchasing mobile phones also helped offset poor sales in other sectors. More households than ever - 12% - rely solely on a mobile phone. In Wales, a fifth of homes use mobiles only. "Did videogames save the day?" Matthew Sharratt, an economist at the Bank of America, said. "Spending on the high street is slowing but continues to show a surprising degree of resilience."Gavin George, head of retail at Ernst &amp; Young, said: "April's 0.2% overall volume decline in retail sales is no surprise given the economic climate, and highlights the  pattern of weak trading conditions. What is more surprising is the 1% reversal in food store sales - the largest fall since August 2006. Food sales have held up well despite hefty price increases."But April's performance shows that consumers are now starting to rein in spending on food, in addition to discretionary items and big-ticket goods. It's a sure sign that the consumer is feeling the pinch more than ever before."
What's your favourite piece of technology?Probably email, if anything. I'm not very gadgety. You buy these gizmos and pretty soon realise you don't need them after all – or you have to buy into some punitive plan that benefits the company that made it more than you. And by the time you realise after three weeks that you didn't need this latest gadget after all, there are only two years left to keep paying a monthly fee anyway!How has it improved your life?It hasn't improved it.  It just means I can tell people what I think of them quicker without having to listen to their side of things, which I find I am less and less interested in. I was also able to send photos of my new baby daughter, Amy, around the world in a click.When was the last time you used it, and what for?This morning – to send a questionnaire back to Delanic, the Dangerous Parking distribution company.What additional features would you add if you could?It already has too many features that it doesn't need. A better way of filtering the spam mail maybe, as nothing really stops it. It's like Keith Chegwin. Always there, every morning, whether you want it or not.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?NoWhat one tip would you give to non-email users?Come down from the mountain.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?I had to look up Luddite, so that makes me illiterate for sure. I have nerd phases. I subscribe to Lynda.com, which is a really good online software tutorial program. So I spent months doing the Final Cut, Photoshop, Illustrator tutorials etc, a couple of summers ago. Forgotten it all now, of course.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?All the plasma TVs in my house – which I bought at about the worst possible time, when they were just on the market. They are about a quarter of the price now. Got that one wrong.PC or Mac?Mac. Always and forever. PC is for the bores of the world, who kid themselves they are "management" and running things. Sliding Doors was written on a very antique Mac and Dangerous Parking on a G5, both using Final Draft.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?I haven't got an iPod. It would be something by the Beatles, though – guaranteed.Will robots rule the world?Good question, but I don't really know or care.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I would like something that you can use when you can't find something in your house, like the search option on your computer but for material things. You type in what it is you can't find and it shows up on a display: "In the back bedroom, under the discarded underpants – where you left it, you pillock." That would be good.Peter Howitt's new film,Dangerous Parking, is now showing across the UK
Until now, Microsoft's Live Search engine has not been my first or second choice for anything, but it is now. The newLive Search for videoknocks Yahoo and Google into a cocked hat. Try it. Just run a search, then hover your mouse cursor over any video that takes your fancy....Notice also that you can sort results by relevance or by date, and if you just want videos that are, say, more than 20 minutes long, you can do that too.It would be nice if Live Search Video was a great illustration of the power of Silverlight. It isn't: it's done in Adobe Flash.Anyone seen this before?
I haven't posted about mobile gaming in a while despite being sent a Nokia N81 pre-loaded with several N-Gage launch titles. So here's a quick catch-up on the burgeoning new platform.First up, the nice bit: Konami is set to support N-Gage with a range of familiar 'brands', beginning with Metal Gear Solid. The title will be developed by Ideaworks3D, one of the key N-Gage studios since the first version of the phone, and is due out in June. Apart from 'advanced' 3D visuals, the game boasts a unique (ish) feature, allowing you to change the colour of Snake's clothing by taking a photo with your phone camera and using the predominant image as a texture map. Poor, poor Snake.Now for the bad news, and it's something I suspected would happen all along.According to news site, All About N-Gage, any game purchase you make from the N-Gage Showroom, is locked to the phone you downloaded it to. So upgrade your phone and, oh dear, all your games are gone. Of course, this is usually the case with Java downloads from network operator portals, but as the All About N-Gage feature points out, those guys aren't trying to build a global online community while pushing their platform as a genuine alternative to say, the Nintendo DS. Also, N-Gage games are a lot more expensive.Nokia is apparently saying this is all about digital rights management, but even Apple lets you move your purchased iTunes content from one Mac to another at least a few times (plus Nokia's music service allows tunes to be ported from one handset to your next). Many of us upgrade our handsets several times a year, so adopting an aggressive DRM protection system that may be fine for a console like the Wii, isn't really fair.It's not smart either - by the time you've bought four or five games your incentive to upgrade to a shiny new Nokia phone seriously diminishes. Isn't selling new handsets quite important to a phone manufacturer?
Although the Microsoft Office OOXML format has been ratified by both the ECMA and ISO standards bodies, Microsoft is still expanding its coverage of file formats. With a Service Pack next year, this will extend to ODF 1.1 (which is not an ISO standard, but is a market standard), Adobe's PDF 1.5 and the archivally-oriented PDF/A. (Office support for PDF is currently via a download because, hypocritically,Adobe had a hissy fitwhen Microsoft tried to include it.)Microsoft says:The 2007 Microsoft Office system already provides support for 20 different document formats within Microsoft Office Word, Office Excel and Office PowerPoint. With the release of Microsoft Office 2007 Service Pack 2 (SP2) scheduled for the first half of 2009, the list will grow to include support for XML Paper Specification (XPS), Portable Document Format (PDF) 1.5, PDF/A and Open Document Format (ODF) v1.1. . When using SP2, customers will be able to open, edit and save documents using ODF and save documents into the XPS and PDF fixed formats from directly within the application without having to install any other code. It will also allow customers to set ODF as the default file format for Office 2007. To also provide ODF support for users of earlier versions of Microsoft Office (Office XP and Office 2003), Microsoft will continue to collaborate with the open source community in the ongoing development of the Open XML-ODF translator project on SourceForge.net.Microsoft also says it will support the Chinese national document file format standard, Uniform Office Format (UOF).The moves will involve Microsoft's participation in a number of committees and standards bodies. It says: "Microsoft will join the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards (OASIS) technical committee working on the next version of ODF and will take part in the ISO/IEC working group being formed to work on ODF maintenance." The OASISTechnical Committeeis currently controlled by Sun and IBM.Microsoft will also have to change its implementation of OOXML to reflect changes made during its approval as an ISO standard. Microsoft says it "plans to update that support in the next major version release of the Microsoft Office system, code-named Office 14."
Not that we drive the zeitgeist or anything, but asoil hits a record $135 per barrel, the BBC'sWorld At Oneis devoting its entire half-hour programme to the effects of the record high oil price (though not if you adjust for inflation? Someone update the Wikipedia graph, quick). You can of course listen to it again on, er, Listen Again.What is interesting is that people are gradually realising that oil is on a one-way ride; even if Opec does increase production, and even as new reserves are found which become economic to exploit (because even though it's expensive to get out, oil sells for a high price) its availability as a cheap source of energy is fading.Thus the decision by American Airlines tostop a number of flights, and to start charging for baggage. (How long, one wonders, before they start weighing passengers? It would make more sense - a bag is never going to weigh as much as a person.) One gets the sense this is how the Oil Era ends - not abruptly, but with the gradual shrinkage of things that one previously took for granted.To quote the American Airlines story:speaking at [the company's] annual meeting in Texas, Gerard Arpey, its chief executive, said: "The airline industry as it is constituted today was not built to withstand oil prices at $125 a barrel, and certainly not when record fuel expenses are coupled with a weak US economy."What's not mentioned in all this - or not very often - is how oil prices affect HGVs. Our front-page story in Technology looks at the fuel efficiency of petrol and diesel cars, which can range between 30 and 60-odd mpg.But when you look at HGVs, you're talking about MPG which is in the sub-10 range. At that level, you're sensitive to tiny changes in price - which is why the Road Haulage Association is very, very concerned about fuel price rises (which will of course have a knock-on effect on food and goods prices).I'm wondering quite what price oil has to reach before nuclear (fission) power becomes outright cheaper. Not that that will make it as applicable - it's going to be a very slow process, if it happens at all, before we have electric cars everywhere. More likely we'll be on bicycles. Or horses. Or, of course,Shank's Mare.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
All About N-Gagesays: "This week we had something rather nasty confirmed to us by Nokia: when you upgrade to a new phone, the only way to keep your N-Gage games is to buy them all over again." And as itpoints out:This is in stark contrast to Nokia's Music Store service, which does let you move your music library to a new phone. Why does Nokia treat a 10 euro album differently to a 10 euro game?The site says: "Nokia's customer care department told us that they can only transfer games if a phone is replaced at a repair centre under the terms of its guarantee. Nokia will not transfer games simply because you've bought a new phone."It is, of course, an anti-piracy measure, but it would obviously be better for users if game code was locked to a user account rather than to a specific phone. Most users change their phone every couple of years.Still, it's a useful reminder that DRM (Digital Rights Management) systems basically mean you have no rights.BBC News has covered the story inGamer anger at Nokia's 'lock in'.
Today's front page story in the Technology supplement -Fuel costs 16p per mile. Why?- looks at how the performance of cars really hasn't improved so much in the 100 years since the Ford Model T rolled off the assembly line (the assembly line itself being an innovation).Yes, fuel prices at the pump are high in absolute terms. Yet when you compare them over time andadjust for inflation, some surprising results emerge.Usingdata from the AA, with prices (for four-star fuel) going back to 1903, and mixing in the inflation data (which goes back to 1750, though cars don't), you get the graph below, showing the real price of fuel over the past century. (Update:graph corrected for decimalisation in 1971. Sorry about that.)It turns out that the most expensive time to buy fuel - in real terms - was 1917 (wars do that); there was a dip during the Great Depression and after the war (when probably there weren't that many people able to afford cars, so plentiful supply but not much demand means lower prices). Even the oil shock of 1973 turns out not to be so bad.The all-time historical low seems to have been1978- 1949 because it's hard to believe that prices are going to go down from here. (And compared to 1978, the most recent low, inflation-adjusted prices in 2005 were 45% up on the 1978 low. I don't think it's coming back.) (This hasn't changed despite my initial decimalisation screwup, which overstated pre-1971 prices by a factor of 2.4.)And what about prices now? If we use the same inflation figures and compare prices for unleaded petrol and diesel (source: Department of Transport), we discover that 2007 (the last year for which prices and inflation data are available) wasn't the most expensive year - 2000 was. Hmm, did peopleget upset about fuel pricesthat year?Update:now added in the data for 2008, assuming an inflation multiplier of 1 (which is near enough, at 3% inflation). Data from the AA for the fuel prices this year. Yes, fuel is more expensive than for ages, in real terms.So what do we conclude? Surprisingly, that we aren't - inrelativehistorical terms - as badly off aswe feel we are.Note though that these data don't include the current year, when prices really have been shooting up. We'll see if we can update them in the future.Update:though these graphs are based on *prices*, it might be more useful - if we're data-wrangling - to have a comparison with earning power. If anyone can point me to some data for median earnings for the past century, we could plot fuel prices against that.In the meantime, has the price of fuel made you change your driving habits? And has seeing these graphs reassured you even slightly?
A hunger for online shopping, internet banking, online entertainment and email has given rural Britain the lead in the race to install broadband, with the number of homes with high-speed connections in isolated areas overtaking those in urban areas for the first time.Having lagged behind big cities for years, the countryside is now better connected. Some 59% of households in rural areas have broadband, compared with 57% of urban areas, according to a survey into  television, radio, internet and telecoms habits by media watchdog Ofcom.Sunderland emerges as the UK's digital capital, with the highest percentage of homes with both multichannel TV and broadband access. Although the city council said this was down to local education projects, others said it could be linked to consistently poor weather.Ofcom said the findings were unexpected, and signalled the end of fears of a "digital divide" between the countryside and built-up areas. "Initial broadband take-up was typically by young urban homes, which is similar to the take-up of many new technologies," said Ofcom's strategy and market developments partner, Peter Phillips. "I don't think anyone would have predicted two or three years ago that we would have seen the picture that we can see today."If you look back two or three years, rural areas were well behind where urban areas were in terms of broadband take-up and that was driven by a number of factors: the number of broadband enabled exchanges was much higher in urban areas, the number of exchanges which allowed competition ... was much higher in urban areas than in rural ones."The report suggested much of the demand in rural areas was driven by the need for online shopping, banking and communication.Ofcom said buying goods online was more popular in rural areas without well-stocked high streets than in urban areas "for obvious reasons of convenience"."In total, about three-quarters of rural internet users say they use the internet for transactions as well as for information whereas for the UK as a whole it's lower than that, it's about 69%," said Phillips.Those in rural areas are also more likely to watch films or television online, because other forms of entertainment such as live music, theatre and cinema were not available.Previous Ofcom reports suggest that demand has always existed but that the broadband services to match were not so widely available. In 2005 internet usage in rural areas was already higher than the national average but just 55% of rural households that were online were using a broadband connection, much lower than the national average.Rural areas are better connected across the UK. Scotland shows the most marked divide, with 59% of rural households having broadband and 52% of urban ones.Ofcom said Sunderland emerged as a clear digital leader across the UK. Two-thirds of households - 66% - in the north-eastern city had broadband, compared with joint second-placed Edinburgh and London on 62%. The proportion of homes with digital TV was 96%, again the highest in the UK. Glasgow is next on 95%.Previous surveys have consistently shown that the north-east and Scotland watch more television than the rest of the UK. But experts do not fully understand why broadband use is so high.Sunderland's council put the broadband lead down to investment in technology projects since the early 1990s as part of its drive to shift the economy from dependency on the traditional industries of shipbuilding and coal mining to newer business areas.At Sunderland computer support company Cube Computing, managing director Paul Adamson said demand was soaring and his turnover doubled last year. Part of that business came from students, while households in Sunderland were also increasingly getting online to use email."In the last year or so we have seen an increase in people in the older age brackets wanting broadband to keep in contact with family and people round the world," he said, adding that the weather could also be to blame. "It's pretty poor. Maybe that's why people stay in."At the other end of the scale is Glasgow, where just 32% of homes have broadband - less than half the proportion in Sunderland. Ofcom said Glasgow's position mirrored the fact that the number of homes owning their own PC was significantly lower than the UK average.Technology take-upBroadband57% of UK households have it, up from 45% a year earlier. Rural areas lead the way with connections at 59%, versus 57% in cities.TelevisionThe Scots watch more TV than any other nation at four hours a day, compared with an average of 3.4.Digital TV85% of households have digital TV - up from 75% a year earlier. Sunderland has the highest proportion of digital TV homes and the highest broadband penetration.Mobile-only homesAt 12%, more households than ever rely solely on a mobile phone. In Wales a fifth of homes are mobile-only.RadioPeople in Wales listen to more radio than any other part of the UK. Scotland has had the highest growth in digital radio take-up over the past year but radio listening there is amongst the lowest.
I installed Service Pack 3 for Windows XP as instructed, but it somehow disabled startup, putting me into an on/off loop. Can I safely do without SP3 and, if not, do you know of a "fix" for the installation?Mark SherwoodMicrosoft says: "Windows XP Service Pack 3 (SP3) includes all previously released Windows XP updates, including security updates and hotfixes. It also includes select out-of-band releases, and a small number of new enhancements, which do not significantly change customers' experience with the operating system." In other words, if you use Windows Update, you will already have installed almost everything in SP3, and you won't notice the rest. (Surprisingly, SP3 doesn't seem to include Internet Explorer 7.) You can therefore ignore it while Microsoft continues to work on the installation routines. If you want to try again, Microsoft has published a useful guide:How to troubleshoot an unsuccessful installation of Windows XP Service Pack 3.
I regularly update Windows XP and it tells me the new SP3 is around 67MB, to be downloaded and installed. There must be many people like me who are not on broadband and face a 6-hour download. Would it be possible for my daughter to download SP3 and put it on to a CD for me?Brian ChalkleyMicrosoft does make downloads available for professional users who need to install things like SP3 on large numbers of machines and would prefer to download it only once. Your daughter could therefore download it for you fromhere. However, this download has to include everything that might be needed, so it's much larger than the one your PC needs: it's 316.4MB. But since there is no particular urgency to installing SP3, you could just ignore it. If you use automatic updates, then I assume Microsoft will ship it to you at some point using its Background Intelligent Transfer Service (BITS). If so, you won't notice until XP tells you it has updates ready to install.
