As a veteran of a couple ofUK games-television experiments, I have a few thoughts on how it's best done (and not done).So do others I've worked with. One of the areas I'm eternally skeptical about is bringing gameplay to the tiny screen: I've always thought it was a bad idea to show people what theycouldbe playing, if they weren't spending their time watching the boob tube.However, there are several business models which suggest this tactic makes sense for the particular demographic which gaming programming is aimed at. And now that the UK has Pulse/XLeague.tv,its own dedicated gaming channel(with my old games-on-teevee buddy Emily Booth) which is chokka with gameplay, I thought I'd press the channel's head Ray Mia for why he thinks this is a good approach.Why a games channel?XLEAGUE was set up due to the very fact that there wasn't a dedicated UK gaming channel a year ago. Video games are now very much a mainstream entity - you only have to look at the amount of cash that GTA IV made to be able to understand how important the gaming industry has become. Essentially it was an issue of supply and demand. There have always been gaming websites, magazines and tv shows, but there has never been a tv channel that entirely services the gaming community - and the market was ready. Now that both the technology and market are in place, the next logical step was to create a tv channel specifically dedicated to the game-playing community.In your experience, what's been the best format for games on TV?In my experience the best format for games on tv is definitely the eSports format because, in almost all aspects, it is exactly like watching regular sports on tv. Within the eSports format we have great gameplay, commentary, analysis, celebrity guests and the actual eSports gameplay. We are now approaching a point where we are able to create eSports stars that define the sport, much like Lewis Hamilton did in his first season in F1. Incidentally, a Sun newspaper article on Lewis Hamilton that was printed just before his first season in F1 makes this even more evident. Hamilton stated in the interview that playing Grand Tourismo really helped him to visualize certain race tracks - so much so that he could almost drive the track with his eyes closed. Games have now become so realistic that watching gamers race can be equally as exciting as watching actual F1 drivers race around a track.In developing XLEAGUE and Pulse, which best practices did you adopt from previous attempts, and which have you found the most effective?Prior to XLEAGUE only magazine programmes existed in terms of gaming, so it has been a totally new experience for us.Gamesmasteronly allowed the viewer to watch other people playing games, but now we are able to hardwire the gallery and the actual console. This allows us to quickly cut from an in-game view where the viewer is immersed in the action to shots of the players and the commentators much like traditional sports. EVS technology also allows for slow motion replay and live instant replays. To put this into perspective, we now have the Champions League commentator Trevor Harris commentating during our FIFA 08 matches. All these combined have been instrumental in creating a truly innovative eSports experience.Why has it been so difficult to bring games to network TV?UK broadcasts still haven't woken up to the possibilities of gaming on TV. This could be down to a real fear amongst mainstream broadcasters that everyone is playing games and not watching tv. Some say that gaming channels can only exist in a multichannel setup as Sky's CGS show, Bravo's gaming show and many others have all experienced difficulty. It is interesting to note that the UK is, and always has been at the cutting edge of games publishing, so why shouldn't we be at the forefront of eSports broadcasting?What's your demographic?Our demographic is generally 5-65 year old males, with a spike around 25-year-old male. Online it is generally 16-35 year olds. Previously we had a majority of male viewers, but now there is a 54/46 male/female ratio, which really shows the mainstream appeal that games now have.Why should they want to watch games being played rather than play them themselves?Why should they be limited to that choice? If someone likes tennis or football they want to watch it, play it and generally be fully immersed in the sport. The same is the case with eSports and XLEAGUE gives them that opportunity! If you look at the opening week of Halo 3, gamers posted over 20 million clips (known as scrims) of themselves playing the game online, showing the different ways in which they completed different levels etc... This really does show that gamers are interested in watching other gamers play and XLEAGUE gives you the real opportunity of taking part in a tv show from your own home computer.What room do non-traditional games (serious games, advergames, virtual worlds, ARGs) have on your channel?There is ample room for all these as modern, televised gaming is not solely about eSports! A major MMO RPG gaming show is currently in production at XLEAGUE and it would be foolish and shortsighted of any gaming channel to ignore such an important sector. We are getting to the point where we could almost show a live in-game soap opera on XLEAGUE, possibly using an MMO RPG much like Second Life, although this would have to be heavily monitored of course!What do you expect will be the next major shift in games and game communities?There is definitely going to be a massive expansion of online communities, centralized gameplay and downloadable games. High-tech concept MMO RPG games already embody this with the likes of World of Warcraft and GTA IV allowing players to interact with other gamers online, creating a fully immersive online world in which to play in.What effect do games have in the mainstream?Games wield a vast amount of power. The industry is evolving all the time and if you look at all the broadsheet coverage and editorial comment that GTA IV recently got, the gaming revolution is causing both fear and awe. I can only really liken what gaming is now to what rock music was to many parents in the 1960s. It is a very powerful industry that is revolutionizing the way in which people interact with one-another on a day-to-day level. It won't take long before there are implications for and within education, youth engagement, non-entertainment sectors... what is out there now is the tip of the iceberg.XLEAGUE shows can now be downloaded from iTunes free of charge
I have a Linksys wireless 802.11b network, but this is not able to take advantage of the latest broadband speeds, and suffers from dead spots round the house. Should I go to 802.11g or straight to the draft 802.11n standard?Malcolm Myles-HookWi-Fi networks typically deliver less than half the theoretical peak speed, but the most common 802.11b should be able to provide 4-5Mbps over short distances (a few metres). This could be a limiting factor if your broadband speed is 5-7Mbps or more. The 802.11g version is rated at 54Mbps and you should be able to get about 18-20Mbps over short distances. This is enough to handle most real-world broadband connections. Also, 11g is a standard, and the equipment is widely available and reasonably priced. It's normally the best choice for high-speed users.However, 802.11n equipment can offer twice the bandwidth (40MHz instead of 20MHz) and usually has two or three aerials to provide multiple streams of data. The theoretical speed is 248Mbps so you might get 100Mbps in real life (I've not tried it). Another claimed advantage is much greater range.Against that, equipment designed to the draft 802.11n specification is more expensive, and you will need new laptop cards, not just a new router. There is also a small risk that current equipment may not be fully compatible with the final standard, though I assume you will be able to update your software when 11n is finalised.Remember, you can always connect your PC using an Ethernet cable for large downloads. Cables provide better throughput, more reliability and greater security than Wi-Fi.
Orange says I have downloaded too much and I have breached their "fair usage" policy. How can I keep track of the usage between the four computers we can have in the household?Ron SpencerYou may already have the information available. Some firewalls keep a running total of the bandwidth you have used, and some "ADSL modems" also keep the information: check your router management software, if any.I think all internet service providers who have "fair use" policies or cap bandwidth should also provide this information via an online home page for your account. I'm told that Tiscali provides daily figures, perhaps more, but it does not seem to be common.Otherwise, you can download software that will track usage on each PC. Free examples includeNetMeter, Codebox Software'sBitMeter II, and the open sourceFreeMeter Bandwidth Monitor For Windows. You can find other options athttp://www.nonags.com/nonags/monit.html.You should also check that you don't have any malware using your connection, and that if you have a wireless network, it is secured using WPA2. Someone else may be using your bandwidth, though file sharing and streaming internet radio and/or video are the usual suspects.
People keep sending me .wps files attached to emails, which I cannot open on my Windows XP laptop. They take no notice of my suggestion that they should send .rtf or at worst .doc versions. Some other idiot sends me .pps files. I don't even know what these are.John CannRight-clicking a file and selecting Properties will tell you what kind of file it is, and what will open it. The wps files are in a Microsoft Works format, and you can probably import them into Word by going to the Open File dialogue box and selecting a version of Works (wps). If this facility not already installed, you can download Microsoft's free Works 6-9 Converter. The Microsoft Knowledge Base provides details inarticle 315757. Searching Google for the number will find it.The .pps file is created with Microsoft's PowerPoint. If you have PowerPoint installed, double-clicking the file will load it. If not, Microsoft provides free viewers for Office files. You can download thePowerPoint Viewer 2003, orPowerPoint Viewer 2007(which covers 97-2007).An alternative is to get an online website to convert the files for you.Zamzar.comis probably the best known, and can handle a wide range of document, image and video conversions.
I'd like an application to auto-convert all the emails in Outlook Express into corresponding text files that can be easily read when needed.Graham DaviesTheABC Amber Outlook Express Convertercan convert Outlook Express dbx files or separate .eml files (emails that you have dragged from OE's window and dropped in a separate folder) into plain text, HTML, RTF, PDF and other formats. It costs $19.95 (£10) for a single user, but you can download a 30-day evaluation copy for nothing.
In the past three or four weeks I have had increasing difficulty accessing my Gmail account using Internet Explorer, and now it won't work at all.Deborah FoxGmail is still in beta test and its working tends to be somewhat variable, but last year's Gmail software still works more reliably than Gmail 2.0. You can specify the older version by adding ui=1 to the address (mail.google.com/mail/?ui=1). Although you are supposed to be able to specify Older Version in the Gmail menu, I've found it always reverts to Newer Version without asking.Comment: Although most people read Gmail on the Web, remember you can collect it using a POP3 client such as Thunderbird, Microsoft Outlook or Outlook Express etc. This avoids the problem of the Gmail JavaScript code failing to download, or whatever, and also means you can back up your mail from your hard drive.
One of the Xbox 360's finest games finally arrives on the PC. Mass Effect is a sci-fi adventure that makes the role-playing genre a lot more accessible. This is as much about shooting aliens as statistic analysis. But experienced players needn't fret. This is still a deep game of character creation, exploration and - occasionally - moral dilemmas. Who lives, who dies, who will you sleep with? All up to you. From the off, the script and graphics impress, especially the character's facial expressions. Squint ever so slightly and you could be watching TV. Combat is smoother on the PC than the 360, and unlike the majority of console to PC conversions, Mass Effect actually feels made for the keyboard and mouse. Worth playing if you have the 360 incarnation? Probably not. There is no new content and the side missions are as patchy as before. But for big-budget-game-starved PC owners? Mass Effect is a must.
Rock Band is a logical progression from Guitar Hero, allowing you to strum, bash or yodel along, on plastic facsimiles of drums, a microphone, bass and lead guitar (all supplied with the game), with an impressive repertoire of classic rock tracks. A concept that is every bit as infectious and irresistible as it sounds - once you've played the game, you won't want to stop. You will appreciate the way Rock Band fosters a collective experience. But we have reservations. Rock Band is way, way too expensive - inexcusably, in the UK it's significantly pricier than in the US ($170, or &pound;87). And it won't work with Guitar Hero guitars (EA's deadly rival Activision owns Guitar Hero). But if you're loaded and buy it (and live somewhere big enough to accommodate it), it will guarantee that your house becomes the post-pub hangout of choice.
The next census is still three years away yet it already has MPs abuzz. But the country may not be ready to do it well because of the shortcoming in national address databases, apparently caused by rivalry over the ownership of intellectual property within government.Yet the census that follows it could be very different. The Domesday-era technology of counting the population by sending out officials with forms to every household should be replaced by downloads from government databases, says the all-party Treasury Select Committee of MPs. In their 11th report,Counting the Population, the commitee says that in an era of mobile populations, the practice of conducting a household census every 10 years is obsolete. It recommends that the next census, in March 2011, "be the last census in the UK where the population is counted through the collection of census forms."Beyond 2011, the committee recommends that we might emulate countries such as Finland, and draw statistics from the government's operational computer systems. However ministers are wary of making any such announcement in the current climate of scepticism about the government's competence at handling personal data.Counting the challengesBut first, we have to carry out the 2011 census, expected to cost &pound;500m - which already faces challenges. In the report, the MPs express "concern" at an issue that has surfaced repeatedly in the Free Our Data campaign: the shortcomings in national address databases, caused by rivalry over the ownership of intellectual property. David Martin of the Royal Statistical Society, told the committee that "the current competition between the National Land &amp; Property Gazetteer and Ordnance Survey address products was a major threat to the census operation". It was also a problem in 2001, he noted.Angela Eagle, exchequer secretary to the Treasury, waspressed by Mark Todd, the Labour MP for South Derbyshire who sits on the committee, over the failure to create the register  - particularly because, as he repeatedly pointed out, all the intellectual property lies within the public sector. Eagle responded that: "I would not underestimate the difficulty of the issues surrounding [a single national address register]." Todd suggested that a Gordian knot approach - cutting through the complexity at a stroke of legislation - might work. "We can all hope," Eagle responded. But in the meantime, the government's Office for National Statistics (ONS) will prepare its own register - a needless duplication.The Free Our Data campaign would certainly back a Gordian approach: slice through the 10 years of rows by making the data available for free, without copyright restrictions, where they are gathered by government-owned organisations.While Todd is no fan of the free data model, we can all agree with his frustration at the way that rows about data owned by public-sector organisations are holding back the development of another public-sector resource, an accurate census. The report recommends that the government "remove any outstanding obstacles to the production of an address register".But what are those obstacles? Only they know. Todd said: "I don't know whether it's the trading fund status of Ordnance Survey, legalistic barriers or failure of the will by government."Controversial innovationsThe next Census Day is due to take place on March 27, 2011. The 2011 census will feature several technological innovations, including an option to complete the form online. Another controversial proposal is to deliver forms through the post, rather than by enumerators on foot - increasing the need for an accurate address register.The MPs' report also seeks assurances about another controversial innovation - outsourcing. One shortlisted bidder is the US firm Lockheed Martin. The report raises concern that personal information gathered through the 2011 Census could be obtained by the US government though the United States Patriot Act. It asks the government "to take clear legal advice and advice from the US State Department and to publish it in response to this report".Beyond 2011, the ONS should abandon form-filling entirely, in favour of a regular snapshot of databases such the National Insurance number, the Worker Registration System and NHS patient registration data. The committee recommends that a pilot "population register" count is carried out alongside the 2011 census to compare the effectiveness of such a system with that of the census.The idea is not new. In 1990, Finland became the first country to carry out a census in this way. However, while a fraction of the cost of a conventional household survey, a national data match would be controversial in the current climate of suspicion and scepticism about government IT systems. But the MPs' report notes that trust in official statistics is also rock-bottom. A European Commission survey last year asked, in each of the 27 EU member states, whether the public trust official statistics. "The Netherlands, Finland and Sweden were in the top five. The UK came an uncomfortable 27th."Taking stockAmount the next census, to be held in 2011, will cost the nation:&pound;500mYears government has tried and failed to create national address register:10&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
I have a massive amount of data in Outlook, including 252 contacts and God knows how many emails. If I tap a search term into Outlook's search box, it will throw up most things that I'm looking for, but not in a very helpful way.Xobni (that's inbox spelled backwards and pronounced"zobnee") is the missing link between your Outlook database and your information. It's a free, downloadable plugin that's officially in beta - but, as far as I can see, is already very stable, and very good at what it does.Xobni indexes all your email and contacts, and presents data in a sidebar. The indexing time is minimal and doesn't seem to hit your PC's performance: it hasn't at all slowed down Outlook 2007 on my three-year-old PC running Vista. Quite impressive, when you consider the size of my .pst file: 568MB, with an archive file of 1.68GB.Clicking on an email from a contact displays a graph showing what time of day you receive emails from them, how many you've sent them, and how many they've sent you. In the sidebar, you'll also see threaded conversations, which you can either view by hovering the mouse, or clicking on the email. There's a nod to social networking, as well: if you've had a conversation with that person which has been copied to other people, they show up as part of that person's network. A mouseover displays contact details. If you're looking for a file, there is a list of all the files you've exchanged.It's a bit scary, though, to see how much time you spend (waste?) on email: one of my contacts has sent me 1,549 emails over the indexing period, and, according to the stats Xobni provides, she usually replies to me within an hour and a half and sends most emails during working hours, peaking at lunchtime. This kind of tool could be brilliant in a corporate environment for billing clients and managing productivity; Xobni plans to sell the software to businesses. For the private user, it's just rather amusing to see that kind of detail about your email relationships with people.Most fun - or alarming - is Xobni Analytics, which shows your mail traffic, including your hourly average and how long it takes you to respond to emails. You can filter all that information by individual contacts, by domains, by subject ... it's pretty much endless.The search tool is powerful, though it doesn't seem to do Boolean searching: I was trying to track down who'd said what in a series of emails I'd exchanged with several people and wanted to search by the contents of the subject line, which I couldn't do. But for me so far, that's the only niggle. I think Xobni is brilliant: it's made my absurd inbox very much more manageable and useful.Pros:Graphical display of information; freeCons:No Boolean search; still in Betaxobni.com
Sometimes the future takes its time to arrive. The nirvana of free, or dirt cheap, telephone calls around the world from your mobile phone through the internet has been promised for years, but hasn't happened. The last time I reviewed Wi-Fi phones none worked properly apart from a Skype phone marketed by 3. You needed a tame geek to change the settings as you moved from one hotspot to another. But that was almost two years ago and a lot has changed despite the continued obduracy of operators such as Vodafone, T-Mobile and Orange. They have tried to ensure that customers don't use the Wi-Fi function in many new smartphones (especially Nokia ones) that enables free net calls. They regard it - quite rightly - as a Trojan horse that could ruin their businesses. They didn't pay &pound;22bn for 3G spectrum only to allow upstart companies to give calls away free.What is different now? First, the number of households with wireless links to the web has greatly increased. This is good because you need Wi-Fi phones at both ends to enable free calls. Second, the number of Wi-Fi-enabled smartphones is rising fast. Third, the issue of usability - acknowledged within the industry as its achilles heel - is at last being solved. There are still lots of companies in this space including Fring, Vyke, freshtel.net, nimbuzz, Jajah (which claims 10 million customers) and WiFiMobile, but a UK company, Truphone, looks particularly interesting. I tried it over the weekend on a Nokia E65 and it worked far better than two years ago - once I had got my local O2 shop to change the default settings so I could actually access Truphone's lengthy but (almost) automatic instructions.After sending an SMS and getting a reply with a mobile web address, you click on it and press the Continue or Next buttons as requested. You can then dial in the usual way - using the internet tel option - and the call is routed through the net for a small charge, mainly to cover the cost of connection to the recipient's phone (unless they too are on Wi-Fi, in which case, it is free). Truphone claims you can dial the US or China for a flat rate of 3p a minute for landlines or mobiles, though in Europe mobile connections cost 15p a minuteA problem arises when you walk around town to be met by a plethora of wireless networks usually needing a password and charging &pound;4.50 or more an hour. Truphone is getting around this through deals with companies such as The Cloud, which runs a European-wide network of hotspots (type your postcode into its website to find the nearest ones). Truphone users can utilise The Cloud's connectivity for a small extra charge on their call. Once registered, you don't have to repeat it at other Cloud hotspots. I tried it at Waterloo station and it worked well. If Truphone can do similar deals with the likes of BT Openzone then the dominance of the operators could be threatened.Truphone recently bought SIM4Travel, which claims to save up to 80% on mobile call costs abroad if you use its SIM card. This will be integrated into Truphone's own branded phone and, presumably, marketed through outlets such as Tesco and Carphone Warehouse, where SIM4Travel is sold. You won't have to download settings into your phone, since everything will be pre-configured.Truphone could emerge as a serious global alternative to the telcos, with its own infrastructure free of expensive 3G spectrum. It already has a Facebook button and is also expected to have an application for the new version of the iPhone, as well as being able to make calls to the hitherto incompatible Skype network. This is a crowded field and new entrants such as the interesting-looking Mazingo dual-mode GSM/Wi-Fi-dedicated phone, also London based, could be competitors. People won't buy phones just for cheap calls, but there is a fighting chance that Britain be in the van of the mobile Wi-Fi revolution.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
What is it with photographers these days?  Are they really all terrorists, or does everyone just think they are?Since 9/11, there has been an increasing war on photography.Photographershavebeenharrassed,questioned,detained,arrestedorworse, anddeclaredtobeunwelcome. We've been repeatedly told towatchoutforphotographers, especiallysuspiciousones.  Clearly any terrorist is going to first photograph his target, so vigilance is required.Except that it'snonsense.  The 9/11 terrorists didn't photograph anything.  Nor did the London transport bombers, the Madrid bombers, or the liquid bombers arrested in 2006.  Timothy McVeigh didn't photograph the Oklahoma City Federal Building.  The Unabomber didn't photograph anything; neither did shoe-bomber Richard Reid.  Photographs aren't being found amongst the papers of Palestinian suicide bombers.  The IRA wasn't known for its photography.  Even thosemanufactured terrorist plotsthat the US government likes to talk about -- the Ft. Dix terrorists, the JFK airport bombers, the Miami 7, the Lackawanna 6 -- no photography.Given that real terrorists, and even wannabe terrorists, don't seem to photograph anything, why is it such pervasive conventional wisdom that terrorists photograph their targets?  Why are our fears so great that we have no choice but to be suspicious of any photographer?Because it's amovie-plot threat.A movie-plot threat is a specific threat, vivid in our minds like the plot of a movie.  You remember them from the months after the 9/11 attacks: anthrax spread from crop dusters, a contaminated milk supply, terrorist scuba divers armed with almanacs.  Our imaginations run wild with detailed and specific threats, from the news, and from actual movies and television shows.  These movie plots resonate in our minds and in the minds of others we talk to.  And many of us get scared.Terrorists taking pictures is a quintessential detail in any good movie.  Of course it makes sense that terrorists will take pictures of their targets.  They have to do reconnaissance, don't they?  We need 45 minutes of television action before the actual terrorist attack -- 90 minutes if it's a movie -- and a photography scene is just perfect.  It's our movie-plot terrorists that are photographers, even if the real-world ones are not.The problem with movie-plot security is it only works if we guess the plot correctly.  If we spend a zillion dollars defending Wimbledon and terrorists blow up a different sporting event, that's money wasted.  If we post guards all over the Underground and terrorists bomb a crowded shopping area, that's also a waste.  If we teach everyone to be alert for photographers, and terrorists don't take photographs, we've wasted money and effort, and taught people to fear something they shouldn't.And even if terrorists did photograph their targets, the math doesn't make sense.  Billions of photographs are taken by honest people every year,50 billionby amateurs alone in the US  And the national monuments you imagine terrorists taking photographs of are the same ones tourists like to take pictures of.  If you see someone taking one of those photographs, the odds are infinitesimal that he's a terrorist.Of course, it's far easier to explain the problem than it is to fix it.  Because we're a species of storytellers, we find movie-plot threatsuniquely compelling.  A single vivid scenario will do more to convince people that photographers might be terrorists than all the data I can muster to demonstrate that they're not.Fear aside, there aren't many legal restrictions on what you can photograph from a public place that's already in public view.  If you're harassed, it's almost certainly a law enforcement official, public or private, acting way beyond his authority.  There's nothing in any post-9/11 law that restricts your right to photograph.This is worth fighting.  Search "photographer rights" on Google and download one of the several wallet documents that can help you if you get harassed; I found one for theUK,US, andAustralia.  Don't cede your right to photograph in public.  Don't propagate the terrorist photographer story.  Remind them that prohibiting photography was something we used to ridicule about the USSR.  Eventually sanity will be restored, but it may take a while.&#183;This article was amended on Friday June 6 2008. Bruce Schneier is BT's chief security technology officer - and not its chief technology officer, as we had it. This has been corrected.&#183;This article was amended on Tuesday June 10 2008. The Madrid train bombings in 2004 took place on an overland commuter service, not a subway. This has been corrected.
UK gets Flip VideoTheFlip Video Ultrapocket-sized digital camcorder officially goes on sale in the UK on June 9 at &pound;99.99.Vote Silver SurferNominations for theSilver Surfer of the Year for 2008are now open.Wikia does searchWikia, the company founded by Jimmy Wales of Wikipedia fame, has improved and relaunched itsWikia user-editable search engine.AMD for MIDsChip-makerAMDhas launched the Turion Ultra Notebook platform, code-named Puma, to compete for the mobile internet device (MID) market.Luxuries offlineOnly a third of luxury goods brands (Burberry, Gieves &amp; Hawkes etc) sell online, and half the firms that don't have no plans to do so, according to aForrester survey.Out of this worldAvanquestis releasing Space Station Sim for the PC, where players manage the creation of an international space station.Our ageing gamersThe average age of the UK's videogame players is now 33, the highest in a European survey by theISFE.Configure My PhoneConfiguremyphone.comenables users to set up their new mobile via the web, for &pound;1 plus the SMS charge.
Often we are told that the videogame industry moves really, REALLY fast, but the strange thing is, games can take up to three years to produce, which is positively geological. What's more, for many years, studios producing a game found it almost impossible to react to fads or just their own brilliant new ideas because most subscribed to the waterfall method of development - a rigidly segregated production line, in which every element is implemented according to an unchanging design document.However, several years ago, companies started to experiment with a technique known as agile development, in which the game is continually prototyped and tested, allowing the team to add or remove features at almost any stage. At Midway Newcastle, for example, they're using a "strike team" model on their forthcoming driving game Wheelman - when someone on the development staff has a good idea, they just scribble it on to a piece of paper, then a designer, programmer and artist are pulled out of the schedule to work through the logistics of the concept. If it works, it's in.Videogame culture is now entering an era of hyper-acceleration, for which the Nintendo Wii is partially responsible. Developers are discovering that a game can be knocked out in less than a year and still compete on the same stage as big Triple A titles, because traditional notions of quality no longer apply - achingly mediocre casual game collections like Carnival Games are topping a million sales, because people just want more experiences like Wii Play and Wii Sports and don't really care how they look.The important thing is getting in there quickly with a popular concept. Meanwhile, at the more hardcore end of the gaming scale, electronic distribution platforms - such as Xbox Live Arcade, PlayStation Network and WiiWare - are allowing developers to bash out concept-driven titles in around six months - and then get a worldwide audience for them.Lost Wind, a new WiiWare title from UK studio Frontier Developments, is a platformer that allows you to control the wind using flicks and swipes with the controller. It's a fun, beautifully executed game, but you can bet it took a heck of a lot less time to manufacturer than the studio's other project, The Outsider, an epic thriller for PS3 and Xbox 360.Soon we're likely to find developers testing brave new concepts as Wiiware, XBLA or PlayStation Network titles, just to see what happens, before implementing them into bigger titles. This fits in with the agile development philosophy that's changing the industry from the inside out: prototyping rules. One thing's for sure, as priorities shift and development periods become more elastic, life is about to get a lot faster.
Ecohacked offCan the ecohackers save us(May 29)? Umm - that would be a "no", then?Graeme Kerr,WalthamstowWe're worried that some attempts at ecohacking will be undertaken - either by governments or by well-meaning vigilante billionaires - but that the system dynamics, secondary impacts and possible side-effects may not be fully understood. The Earth's climate is complex, with long, slow functions that ebb and flow. If we try to mess with that, we may be very sorry.crnano.typepad.comIf those ideas [in the article] are unfeasible, then the ones about putting shit into orbit are the product of minds which resemble large bags of mixed fruit and nuts. Dream-uber-techno-solutions simply aren't practical or workable.punkscientist.blogspot.comI'd really prefer we were a bit more certain of the causes of problems before we presumed to meddle with possible cures.junkk.blogspot.comPower strugglesThe impression given is one of great current difficulties for data centre operators, yet considerable new capacity is now coming on line to meet the burgeoning demand for high quality data centre capacity in London (City business races the Games for power,May 29). All these new sites and new capacity offer state of the art facilities, with high power to rack availability. Although sourcing power capacity in London is not easy, it is by no means the impossible situation that your article portrayed.Greg McCulloch,Interxion;John Souter,LINX;Michael Winterson,Equinix;Mike Tobin,TelecityGroupThe way that data centre growth is increasing means that with current solutions we're facing a losing battle. The last estimates I saw (from the US) was that data centre power was doubling every five years and the figures for the City are only marginally slower. Yet the reports of data centre gains tend to talk about one-off 15-30% power reductions. Clearly these solutions won't solve the problem in the long run (or even the medium term) - we need more and better answers (such as using the waste heat to warm buildings).thegreenitreview.comGet lost, in a good bookIf you want a virtually real-time melting pot of ideas, opinions and discussion (regardless of the fact that a substantial proportion spew uncensored from the brains of talentless, sycophantic, self-referential halfwits) then go for "social media" - whatever that means (Why is the book world threatened by gamers, May 29). If you want to immerse yourself in someone else's fully realised and integrated vision of "something" then pick up a book. I have my suspicions as to whether collaborative works could consistently produce unquestionably convincing worlds that people want to revisit time and time again. I'm not against the idea of collaborative work, not by a long chalk; I'm just against the idea that because a medium is new it must be a good thing.Matt Flanagan,Hebden BridgeWoW not so wonderfulIt's not just that World of Warcraft is so good (it has so many failings I can't count them all), but also that other publishers have either had a possible hit and make brain-dead decisions, or brought out fatally flawed games which never had a chance (Why are MMOs having a population crisis, May 29).John and Anjelika,via emailWhile other media either have a sort of "gosh, we'd better explain what an MMO is, and isn't it cute how dwarves run around with giant axes" kind of pie-eyed sensibility (and usually get it all wrong), and others are either deeply cynical or cynically shallow, the Guardian has been a source of good MMO coverage.dusanwriter.com
Looking for faster Wi-FiI have a Linksys wireless 802.11b network, but this is not able to take advantage of the latest broadband speeds, and suffers from dead spots round the house. Should I go to 802.11g or straight to the draft 802.11n standard?Malcolm Myles-HookJS:Wi-Fi networks typically deliver less than half the theoretical peak speed, but the most common 802.11b should be able to provide 4-5Mbps over short distances (a few metres). This could be a limiting factor if your broadband speed is 5-7Mbps or more. The 802.11g version is rated at 54Mbps and you should be able to get about 18-20Mbps over short distances. This is enough to handle most real-world broadband connections. Also, 11g is a standard, and the equipment is widely available and reasonably priced. It's normally the best choice for high-speed users. However, 802.11n equipment can offer twice the bandwidth (40MHz instead of 20MHz) and usually has two or three aerials to provide multiple streams of data. The theoretical speed is 248Mbps so you might get 100Mbps in real life (I've not tried it). Another claimed advantage is much greater range.Against that, equipment designed to the draft 802.11n specification is more expensive, and you will need new laptop cards, not just a new router. There is also a small risk that current equipment may not be fully compatible with the final standard, though I assume you will be able to update your software when 11n is finalised. Remember, you can always connect your PC using an Ethernet cable for large downloads. Cables provide better throughput, more reliability and greater security than Wi-Fi.Over the limitOrange says I have downloaded too much and I have breached their "fair usage" policy. How can I keep track of the usage between the four computers we can have in the household?Ron SpencerJS:You may already have the information available. Some firewalls keep a running total of the bandwidth you have used, and some "ADSL modems" also keep the information: check your router management software, if any. I think all internet service providers who have "fair use" policies or cap bandwidth should also provide this information via an online home page for your account. I'm told that Tiscali provides daily figures, perhaps more, but it does not seem to be common.Otherwise, you can download software that will track usage on each PC. Free examples includeNetMeter,Codebox Software's BitMeter II, and the open sourceFreeMeter Bandwidth Monitor For Windows. You can find other options atnonags.com. You should also check that you don't have any malware using your connection, and that if you have a wireless network, it is secured using WPA2. Someone else may be using your bandwidth, though file sharing and streaming internet radio and/or video are the usual suspects.File conversionsPeople keep sending me .wps files attached to emails, which I cannot open on my Windows XP laptop. They take no notice of my suggestion that they should send .rtf or at worst .doc versions. Some other idiot sends me .pps files. I don't even know what these are.John CannJS:Right-clicking a file and selecting Properties will tell you what kind of file it is, and what will open it. The wps files are in a Microsoft Works format, and you can probably import them into Word by going to the Open File dialogue box and selecting a version of Works (wps). If this facility not already installed, you can download Microsoft's freeWorks 6-9 Converter. The Microsoft Knowledge Base provides details inarticle 315757. Searching Google for the number will find it.The .pps file is created with Microsoft's PowerPoint. If you have PowerPoint installed, double-clicking the file will load it. If not, Microsoft provides free viewers for Office files. You can download thePowerPoint Viewer 2003, orPowerPoint Viewer 2007(which covers 97-2007). An alternative is to get an online website to convert the files for you.Zamzar.comis probably the best known, and can handle a wide range of document, image and video conversions.OE converterI'd like an application to auto-convert all the emails in Outlook Express into corresponding text files that can be easily read when needed.Graham DaviesJS:TheABC Amber Outlook Express Convertercan convert Outlook Express dbx files or separate .eml files (emails that you have dragged from OE's window and dropped in a separate folder) into plain text, HTML, RTF, PDF and other formats. It costs $19.95 (&pound;10) for a single user, but you can download a 30-day evaluation copy for nothing.Gmail accessIn the past three or four weeks I have had increasing difficulty accessing my Gmail account using Internet Explorer, and now it won't work at all.Deborah FoxJS:Gmail is still in beta test and its working tends to be somewhat variable, but last year's Gmail software still works more reliably than Gmail 2.0. You can specify the older version by adding ui=1 to the address (mail.google.com/mail/?ui=1). Although you are supposed to be able to specify Older Version in the Gmail menu, I've found it always reverts to Newer Version without asking.BackchatSteve Rowlands, a laryngectomee, wanted a PC to speak for him, and I suggestedE-triloquist. Martin Saunders says he's been using a free Windows program calledNatural Reader, and reminds me that I'd previously recommended the old Lernout &amp; Hauspie voices, Michelle and Michael. Someone on the Ask Jack blog suggested Call Centre's freeWordTalk, which works with Microsoft Word or Office. "Word's AutoCorrect function already allows you to build a Quick-Key set, so that three or four keystrokes are instantly converted to words, phrases, sentences, paragraphs."&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk.  Read more atblogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack
Losing a major contractor is a serious problem for the largest ever non-military IT project. But the Guardian has established that the &pound;12.7bn NHS computerisation scheme has growing troubles besides the decision last week by Fujitsu to abandon the project. Besides being four years behind schedule after five years' work (according to the government spending watchdog, the National Audit Office), and having seen consultant Accenture jump ship two years ago, the National Programme for IT now has another difficulty.The Lorenzo patient administration system, which is earmarked for hospital trusts across the midlands, east and north of England, is no longer expected to meet its already much-delayed release date of October. Instead, senior NHS directors are talking about Lorenzo "release 1" being ready by autumn. This would be a toe-in-the-water clinical system, software far short of a patient administration system - the core building block on which all clinical systems will eventually sit.Paper trailThe scope of the scheme is vast: to reach every outpost of the NHS. Five years ago work began to migrate the creaking mass of paper-based records for 50 million patients living in England on to a brand new, fully integrated 21st-century IT network. An army of consultants from four leading firms - Accenture, CSC, BT and Fujitsu - were charged with implementing the project's core care records service through five regional contracts. But the NAO last month said the finish is still at least six years away.Last week, the project was dealt another body blow. Fujitsu quit, becoming the second of the original "big four" contractors to depart, after Accenture two years ago. The move is expected to cost the Japanese firm hundreds of millions of pounds and its reputation will be damaged around the world. No matter, said Fujitsu. The &pound;1.1bn contract was no longer worth the candle.All of a sudden, the NAO's estimate for completion of the electronic care records project by 2014-15 begins to look very optimistic. On June 16, NHS chief executive David Nicholson and Gordon Hextall, the health service's most senior IT boss, will appear in front of the MPs' public accounts committee to give a progress update. Given the slew of bad news in recent weeks, they can expect a tough reception.Questions will undoubtedly centre on the loss of Fujitsu and the uncertainty this has created. It remains to be seen which firm, if any, will be chosen as a replacement within the south of England contract being abandoned by the Japanese firm. The NHS is believed to be weighing up whether to take the quick and easy option of transferring the contract to BT or CSC, or to permit trusts to chose from an accredited list of alternative suppliers.Is there an alternative?The latter option would be popular with many disaffected trusts. Grassroots demand for fresh suppliers follows repeated broken promises on delivery dates for Lorenzo in the midlands, east and north, and by a scepticism about the suitability of rival patient administration system Millennium, which is being rolled out in London and the south.Almost from the outset, Fujitsu had found itself struggling to persuade medics and NHS IT workers of the benefits of Millennium, supplied by Kansas City-based Cerner. Designed for US hospitals, it got a dreadful reception. Fujitsu, Cerner and the NHS bosses themselves then squabbled over who should pay to better customise Millennium to match it to the requirements of English hospitals.Millennium has been installed in eight out of 41 acute hospital trusts in the south, where Fujitsu is now preparing to exit. But the feedback has been damning. Medics, IT staff and even local MPs have labelled installations "not fit for purpose". Last summer, even the outgoing director-general of NHS IT, Richard Granger, admitted: "It really isn't usable because they have been building a system ... without listening to what the end users want." Some of the immediate problems have been patched up, but at least one trust has been forced to take on more than 30 extra staff specifically to cope with problems thrown up by Millennium. In many other cases, trusts have been left so dissatisfied they have withheld payment from Fujitsu - something they are only entitled to do if the installed system is not running correctly.Before the Japanese firm's exit last week, NHS bosses had been urging disaffected trusts to be patient with Millennium, because an upgraded version that would iron out all the previous problems was only two months away. But many are now questioning why, if the upgrade is all it is cracked up to be, Fujitsu chose last week to walk away. In Kansas City, Missouri, Cerner's finance director Marc Naughton has already said he believes replacing Fujitsu is unlikely to reduce his firm's involvement in the southern region. "We have almost 30% of that area already automated with Cerner systems," he said. "So switching costs would be fairly significant if you were going to determine to use a different software supplier. So we think that's somewhat unlikely." Many of those closer to the trusts using Millennium in the UK are less confident.A pinch of saltIn the north of England, it is hard to say there is greater optimism. Trusts in the midlands, north and east are used to deadlines for Lorenzo delivery being set and missed. The product - from iSoft - has been delayed so many times that some trusts are close to open rebellion.Two years ago, the Guardian published details from a confidential progress report on Lorenzo, produced jointly by CSC and Accenture. It found "there is no well-defined scope and therefore no believable plan for releases". Many months earlier the IT industry had been dazzled by slick presentations by iSoft bosses in Manchester detailing Lorenzo's capabilities. In 2005, the company was telling investors Lorenzo was already on the market and had been available from early 2004.Trusts have been told Lorenzo is just round the corner for four years, so the next set of promises will be taken with a pinch of salt. In the meantime, several acute trusts have complained that the arrival of Millennium and an iSoft stopgap system have left them with less clinical functionality than their old IT systems provided.Elsewhere, however, it is important to note that the national programme has seen major improvements - among them the Choose &amp; Book referral service, the PACs (picture archiving systems) and the national IT "spine" on which electronic care records sit. But all these have so far been overshadowed by the shambolic local system replacements.More recently the Royal Berkshire foundation trust, which had been working with Fujitsu, said it was on the brink of abandoning the national programme, choosing instead to find and fund its own IT systems.With the future of the southern region unclear, it is the kind of deliberations into which many trusts may be forced.&middot; This article was amended on Friday June 6 2008. The Cerner corporation is not in the state of Kansas as we suggested originally. It is based in Kansas City, Missouri. Cerner's finance director is Marc, not Mark, Naughton. Both have been corrected.
Based on the books rather than the movies and powered by the Unreal graphics engine, Bourne Conspiracy looks the part from the very first frame. It's a pacey 3D action adventure, relying on a mix of close combat and responding to onscreen instructions. Enemies come thick and fast, to be dealt with by a limited array of fighting moves, plus some truly spectacular takedowns that use any available scenery to your advantage. Some ideas work better than others - for instance, a Bourne "instinct" that temporarily gives your hero "spidey-sense" for revealing objectives. Rapid switching between quicktime and real-time combat can confuse. Despite this, the boss battles alone make Bourne Conspiracy one adrenaline rush of a game.
Apple is to rebrand its ".Mac" web, synchronisation and email service next week, focussing instead on "mobile me", according to clues unearthed around the web and inside its software.The update would revamp the ageing service, which has been criticised for lacking any compelling features, and might integrate iPhones and Mac computers more closely, letting people synchronise passwords and contacts over the air rather than from their computer. The renaming would also renew the focus on Apple's iPhone, expected to receive a significant update next week as well as the launch of an online App Store which will allow third-party software to run directly on it, rather than through its onboard browser.The clues to the revamp were discovered in the latest update to its Mac OS X operating system, which uses "placeholder" text in a number of applications that previously specified the string ".Mac", according to theBlogging Robots blog, which found the potential replacement string "mobile.me" deep inside the iPhone software development kit.Further confirmation came with the discovery that MarkMonitor, a company that Apple has used in the past to reserve domains, bought the "mobile.me" domain in 2007, after Apple had reserved the trademark in 2006. The domain "me.com" apparently changed hands - to MarkMonitor - last Thursday, while "mobileme.com" changed hands at the end of March - bought, again, by MarkMonitor.Apple launched .Mac as iTools in January 2000, a free service offering 20MB of online storage, email and web hosting. In July 2002 it became a paid-for service - which led to widescale departures.Yet by September Apple could announce that it had 100,000 users. Since then it has added other services, including address, bookmark, calendar, email and password synchronisation across multiple Macs, which are provided for an annual cost of &pound;69 (in the US, $99.95). However although it has expanded the storage available on the service, there has been little comparison with free services such as Google Mail.
Just a couple of weeks after the appointment of Shuhei Yoshida as head of Sony Worldwide Studios, two in-house PS3 projects have been canned. Sony London's latest Getaway title and driving shooter, Eight Days are no more. Gamesindustry.bizquotesfrom an official statement:This decision was made following an internal review of all games and it was deemed that with the incredibly strong list of exclusive first party titles coming up both this year and in the near future, resource should be reallocated to enhance those projects closer to completion.Well, if there are budgets to be slashed at Sony, and it would seem that there are, these two were always going to be prime candidates for the chop. The company's cockney crime caper has already been through two poor sequels - Black Monday and Gangs of London - while Eight Days looked like yet another guns n' wheels blaster, although the desert setting did make it look a bit like No Country For Old Men.So is anyone sorry that Getaway... gotaway? I did quite enjoy the health meter (I'll just lean up against this wall for a bit until my calamitous shotgun wound heals up), but just about everything else was derivative and achingly Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels rather than Long Good Friday.
Back in January, Steve Jobsintroduced film rentals in the US. Some people swooned. Other people figured out that if you could figure out the software to rent films, you could use that same system to rent music. But no matter on the latter. We were promised films for rent in the UK, but no word on when it would happen.Now, it's happened:movies from major film studios including 20th Century Fox, The Walt Disney Studios, Paramount Pictures, Warner Bros. Entertainment, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc. (MGM), Sony Pictures Television International and Lionsgate UK are now available on the iTunes® Store in the UKWell, that's nice. You'll be able to get films such as I Am Legend (passable; Charlton Heston's version, The Omega Man, was just as good, or bad. The picture link goes to Philip French's review.). Anyway:The iTunes Store in the UK features over 700 films available for rent or purchase, with titles available for purchase on the same day as their DVD release700? That's nearly as many as your average Blockbuster. And how much do they cost?iTunes movies are available at £6.99 for library title purchases and £10.99 for new releases. iTunes Movie Rentals are £2.49 for library title rentals and £3.49 for new releases, and high definition versions are priced at just one pound more.How does that compare to the US? Over there,you'll findiTunes Movie Rentals are priced at $2.99 for library titles and $3.99 for new releases, and high definition versions are just one dollar more with library titles at $3.99 and new releases at $4.99.Is it just me, or is this pricing differential just completely taking the piss? Let's generously assume that Apple is not gouging us on the price here, and that it's doing its pricing based on wholesale pricing by the (generally, US-based) studios. How can they explain the fact that new releases cost the equivalent of$7- where in the US they sell for$4. That's on a product that's already been made, which needs no translation (unlike, say, software), where making new copies costs nothing. For library rental, the comparison is $5 in the UK vs $3.Sorry, but this continuing differential in pricing - which has been pretty much ironed out for hardware (once you allow for 17.5% VAT in the UK) and is falling for Apple's software - still lingers in media (iTunes tracks at 79p - or $1.60 - vs 99c anyone?). It's bad, and if I needed to point to anything that comprises a barrier to a wholehearted acceptance of the Brave New Digital World, this would certainly be a big part of it. (DRM being the other part, but mostly Apple's keeps out of the way. Pricing doesn't.)
Sony has sealed an in-game ad deal withIGA Worldwide- the latter will now sell adverts into games on PS3. The first step is a two-year deal with EA. From the press release:This agreement provides marketers the ability to plan and execute long-term campaigns targeted towards an elusive demographic - males 18 - 34 - through EA's blockbuster roster of titles. The in-game development cycle also benefits gamers in that the advertisements are better integrated within the gaming environment in order to deliver a seamless and more authentic game environment. EA has worked with IGA on various projects to date, and this agreement builds on that successful partnership.Under the agreement, IGA will exclusively manage dynamic in-game advertising within EA's portfolio of PS3 titles including popular EA SPORTS franchises Madden NFL football, NBA LIVE basketball, NASCAR racing and NHL hockey. IGA will also have access to EA's popular racing franchises Need for Speed and Burnout.EA, of course, is the natural choice for this experiment. It's the sleekest, most clinically brand-aware publisher in the industry today, plus its sports titles will provide easy, non-intrusive hoardings on which to position incoming ads. It will be interesting to see who advertises, and what efforts they'll go to to ensure their message doesn't simply become background paraphernalia.Of course, IGA Worldwide is keen to paint this as a virtuous circle: gamers get a more authentic game world; advertisers get to beam out geo-targeted ads straight into the heads of a hard-to-reach demographic (young males), via a 'lean forward' rather than 'sit back' media; and publishers get to make money out of pirated, shared and second-hand games (plus IGA is claiming that game advertising is expected to cover at least 10% of game development costs by 2010).If you find the whole thing rather sinister, remember this - IGA's Radial Network system, which serves the adverts, tracks data on the in-game ads you look at and for how long. If you don't want to support in-game adverting, look away...
As mentionedbelow, Acer is joining HP, Dell and others in launching a subnotebook to compete with the newAsus Eee PC range. The machine was unveiled at Computex in Taiwan.According to Acer:The result is a masterpiece of technological simplicity with an intuitive and specifically optimized software interface to support connectivity needs. At just 24 x 17 cm and weighing less than one kilo, the Aspire one is not only extremely compact (smaller than an average office diary) but offers numerous connectivity possibilities, a full and easy-to-use software application suite and a battery life of up to 6 hours.Well, three hours as normal, with a Flash memory drive, which usually means 2.5 if you're lucky. The six hours requires the optional 6-cell battery.The interface is Linpus Linux Lite with four panels for Connect, Works, Fun and Files, but there's the option of Microsoft Windows XP.The Aspire One has a 1.6GHz Intel Atom N270 processor with 512MB or 1GB of RAM (with a free slot for expansion), either an 8GB Flash driver or an 80GB hard drive, and an 8.9 inch 256K-colour screen with a resolution of 1024 x 600 pixels. Graphics are provided by a Mobile Intel 945GSE Express chipset. It also has three USB ports, an Ehternet port, and an external monitor port, and one nice extra feature is the 5-in-1 card reader.The Acer One's dimensions are 249 x 170 x 29mm (9.8 x 6.7 x 1.14 inches) and the weight is 995g (2.19 lbs) assuming you have the SSD and a 3-cell battery.In sum, it's extremely similar to the Asus Eee PC901, except for throwing in a card reader and offering a hard drive option.But it will be interesting to see what the keyboard is like. Acer says: "The Aspire One features a 95% full-sized keyboard for natural, easy typing just like you're used to." As a touch-typist, I'm looking for something as close as possible to my old IBM ThinkPad 240X ultraportable, and that had a 95% keyboard. (Unfortunately, the 240X has been made obsolete by progress: it has a maximum 192MB of memory and an 800 x 600 screen.)
It's been a week (well, slightly over) and the latest Tech Weekly podcast is piping hot.This week we examine artificial intelligence with two experts, Igor Aleksandr and Ray Tallis, and put questions such as: do you really want a computer that's as "intelligent" as a human, after seeing what a mess human intelligence is?We also pick over Windows 7 (what there is of it) and look at other news, and we discuss the rage directed at the blogger Emily Gould, formerly of Gawker, over a recent New York Times magazine article: Meg Pickard from our comment team comes and explains the dynamics of online debate.Feedback and your suggestions, as always, are very welcome.Listen now, or try one of these:•The podcast feed URL•Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes•Visit our Facebook group
If you haven't heard of timelines, well, they're all the rage at the moment. There's the open sourceMIT Timelineproject, and there's Bee Docs'Timeline for the Mac(anything for Windows?), and there's also a website calledDipitywhich lets you roll your own online.We thought we'd take the Yahoo-Microsoft not-quite-a-takeover epic and piggybacked on the timeline someone built there. (The timeline is below and you cansee it at Dipity.)var dipity_options = {width:"440", height:"450", border:"1px solid black",zoom:"1mon",};</p><p>The original creator (BJ H - hey, do you think it could be <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B.J._Hunnicutt">BJ Hunnicutt</a>? <strong>Update</strong> - oh, no, it's BJ Heiney, one of the <a href="http://www.dipity.com/about">people behind Dipity</a>) - seems to have left it world-writable. So we wrote.</p><p>We'd now like to know when you think Jerry Yang will get his marching orders - an event that seems increasingly likely, given yesterday's revelation that Microsoft offered up to $40 per share for the company (now trading at about $26). You can enter a date and even a time for when you think it'll happen. Use your signin name here; time will be assumed to be GMT. We'll try to think of some sort of appropriate prize.</p><p>And in the meantime, if you want to add some useful times and dates in there which will add to the timeline - or some pictures, since we've failed to so far, or video, as there's only one.. (ahem) - then you're welcome.</p><p>Here's the other question, though: while shareholders might be angry with Yang, does he actually deserve to go? Has he made the right choices, even if they're not the ones which enrich the shareholders immediately?</p>
Engadget Chinese went to the Asus press briefing at the Computex show in Taiwan and emerged with a snap of three Eee PC notebooks side by side. The PC1000 with 10.2 inch screen is obviously the biggest. The PC901 with 8.9 inch screen (middle) and the original PC701, with 7 inch screen, are more or less the same size.They should all be available with 1.6GHz Intel Atom N230 processors, instead of 900MHz Celeron-M chips. Whether the Atom will be faster is open to doubt:Fudzillawas disappointed with the Atom's performance, after testing a desktop board, but it certainly uses less power.Engadget says: "New 6-cell battery offers up to 7.5-hours of battery for Eee PC 1000, 7.8-hours for 901, 7 hours for Eee PC 1000H."The PC 1000H model will have an 80GB or 160GB hard drive -- the bigger one comes with Linux instead of Windows, to keep the retail prices consistent.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Phew - after the hubbub of the Puzzle Design competition, theWikigamersthought they could take a well-deserved break, but after the judges threw in their tuppence and the winners were announced, it seems our hard work has just begun!We ended up with 24 superbpuzzles, and now comes the task of integrating them into the synopsis, placing each onthe mapand deciding which will make it to the final cut given the time we have. As we're aiming to get this baby out in time for September, we've had to cut back on our initial optimism, and are currently working towards integratingnine essential puzzlesinto the final piece, plus some of our truly excellentred herrings. We're working towards finalising the list of primary puzzles, and once those have been hard-wired into the code, we'll add what secondary ones we can.To wit, there'sa lively discussiongoing on about which puzzles to include. At the moment, it's decision time on which one to use tofind the torch, how toenter the bridgeand how tostart the engines. If you'd like to get involved, headhereand discover the hard work and creativity of your fellow gamesbloggers for yourselves. The puzzles will be finalised by the end of this week and then the coding begins!If you don't have the time, there are, as always, a couple of newQuick Helpsthat will take less than 5 minutes to complete. Today we're looking for assistance on the following:Object Watch: There are plenty of objects, but so few have descriptions. What does the Bottle of Rum look like, for example? What does the plunger do? If you have an idea and are a dab hand at effluent description, we need you! Add your wordshere.The Engine:Engines are currently made up of many small parts, and in the future, I expect there to be many many more. We need people to suggest bits and bobs that go into a spaceship's engine (from the duct tape holding the improbability drive to the fuel widget to the candy wrapper carelessly shoved in between the doohicky next to the exhaust pipe). You can do thathere.We also hold regular meetings on Mondays at 6pm GMT. If you'd like to take part, send an email to gamesblog +at+ gmail +dot+ com and we'll add you to the joviality.
Yahoo drew up a plan to reject a Microsoft takeover bid months before the software company went public with its $45bn (&pound;22.9bn) offer, according to newly released court documents that reveal the lengths that the internet company went to in its attempts to avoid being swallowed up.Yahoo had also rejected the idea of a tie-up with its bitter rival Google on competition grounds, according to court documents made public in the US yesterday. Less than three months later, however, the two companies collaborated on a trial of Google's technology on Yahoo's American website.The documents also include a reference to Yahoo board minutes indicating that in January 2007 Microsoft offered to buy the company for about $40 a share, almost 30% higher than the level at which Microsoft actually launched a bid earlier this year.The documents, made public by a Delaware court judge as part of a legal action by Yahoo shareholders angered that the company rebuffed Microsoft's takeover approach, provide more details of Yahoo's resistance to doing a deal.They include minutes from a Yahoo board meeting at which the directors discussed "recent communications about a third party's interest" and the likelihood of a takeover offer. The shareholders say the third party was Microsoft.Jerry Yang, Yahoo chief executive, then received approval to draw up a "standby" press release rejecting any offer that was eventually made.Microsoft made its initial takeover move three months later - and Yahoo did indeed reject the offer.The companies have subsequently held talks about combining their search advertising activities to create a viable competitor to Google through either a joint venture or a partial buyout by Microsoft. Yahoo's board, meanwhile, has come under pressure from the American activist shareholder Carl Icahn, who is planning a shareholder revolt against Yang at the company's forthcoming annual meeting.The court documents also reveal that on January 30, just days before Microsoft publicly announced its $31-a-share initial offer for Yahoo, an internal document prepared executives to reject any question of a search advertising deal with Google at an "all hands" internal meeting."Short-term analysis of the revenue potential of outsourcing monetisation may not take into account the longer-term impact on the competitive market if search becomes an effective monopoly," said an extract from the document.This is at odds with Yahoo's subsequent announcement in April that it was conducting a small-scale test with Google. That deal was widely seen as a Yahoo tactic to see off the threat of Microsoft. Google's bosses have since said they would be willing to work with Yahoo again.The bulk of the lawsuit, which has been brought by two Michigan pension funds, focuses on whether the court should cancel a generous employee severance plan that the shareholders argue is designed to make a Microsoft takeover hugely expensive.Based on Yahoo's internal estimates, the severance plan, adopted on February 12, would have added between $462m and $2.1bn to Microsoft's costs, based on the company's initial offer of $31 a share.If the bid had been raised to $35 a share - a figure that Wall Street analysts reckon would have been a "knock-out blow" - Microsoft's potential costs from the severance scheme changes would have ranged from $514m to $2.4bn.
It's the one-stop-shop for technological treats – Aleks Krotoski is joined by Charles Arthur and Jemima Kiss for another Tech Weekly.This week our guests are artificial intelligence thinkersRay TallisandIgor Aleksander, who send us into philosophical overdrive contemplating our machine-dominated future.Coming back down to earth, we discuss internet celebrity fallout and the issues that lie behind the rage that was directed at blogger Emily Gould following awarts-and-all newspaper article in the New York Times magazine.We also bring you this week's technology news. We look at the announcement of Windows 7 and the government's proposals to close a legal loophole and make computer-generated images of child sex abuse illegal.  What are the implications for things such as art and adult play in Second Life?Plus, the websiteAmazing Tunes, which features music from unsigned artists, will give us a two-minute hard sell in the Elevator Pitch, and we hear your latest comments  on the Guardian's blogs.• Tell us what you think bycalling our Skype voicemailor mail us attech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog about this week's programme•Get our Twitter feed for updates on the programme across the week•Join our Facebook group
Far Cry 2was the highlight ofUbidays, game publisher Ubisoft's recent product event, but Beyond Good and Evil 2, shown inteaser trailer form, may be more important in the long run. The original was the very definition of cult classic but the strong characters and creatorMichel Ancel'smainstream nous suggest the sequel could be one of those rare hardcore/casual crossover titles. BGE2 is definitely one to watch for 2009. Far Cry 2 though is one to watch now. Set in Africa, clearly the game setting of the moment, Far Cry 2 looked gorgeous. Think dusty browns, swaying trees, lots of grass. I played the console versions - both appeared identical - but the PC demo, complete withamBXsupport was sexiest version. A wide open world and an organic environment - trees that get blown up grow back - suggest this could be more than just a straight forward shooter.Elsewhere the Tom Clancy marketing push was in full swing, with Endwar and Hawx both on show. I'vealready bloggedabout the former - it's the voice-controlled RTS that actually works. Seeing it again didn't change my mind even if the visuals won't win any awards. Online persistence - the whole battlefield concept in particular - will be key in making this game succeed. Hawx was less impressive, although that could be me. I've always had a problem with any flight combat game set in the modern day. WW1 classicKnights of the Skyand most of the WW2 games at least felt like you were actually fighting something physical. Modern day sims just seem to be a case of firing missiles at dots. Hawx was no different, with the relatively unimpressive city graphics not helping either. But hey, the sky looked good. Again online could be key here, with the 4-player co-op sounding very impressive.Less exciting was Brothers in Arms: Hells Highway. I'm still keen on WW2 games but this just felt a little flat to me. Militarily accurate I guess but after playing Call of Duty and the like it all felt a bit too clinical. The AI was dubious too. One demo I watched saw a German soldier seemingly oblivious to the gunfire around him as he faced the wall in the corner. Perhaps he had been told off? Like Far Cry 2 the 360 and PS3 looked identical. Hopefully the promise of a darker edge - the trailer showed flashbacks and hand-to-hand combat - will be realised come release.Perhaps the biggest surprise was Shaun White's Snowboarding. Shaun White? No, me neither but the game - a fun mix of Tony Hawks and SSX - deserves some attention. Freedom is key with players able to make their own way down the four sizeable mountains. The view was impressive, with distant specks soon turning into trees. Multiplayer sounds promising, with 16 players able to share the same slopes. And the pose factor comes in. with players gaining better gear as they win events. The Wii version looked weaker than the rest - as you'd expect - but does use the balance board.So what else? Prince of Persia was briefly shown. The short teaser trailer did its job, suggesting co-op combat and tactics - more please. Soul Calibur IV was playable though. The hook is the inclusion of Darth Vader and Yoda. And sure, it looks pretty enough but honestly, does anyone aged over 15 actually play beat-em-ups anymore? Rayman Raving Rabbids was the obligatory party game. Two events were shown, one a skiing game controlled by sitting on board and steering by adjusting your, er, cheeks accordingly. The other was a dancing game that saw lots of Saturday Night Fever style posing.And then there was the casual stuff - aka Games for Everyone - with a stack of titles aiming straight for the Nintendo mainstream. In amongst the secret diaries, weight management titles, pets simulators and games that assume all pre-teen girls want to be teachers wasAllen Carr's Easyway To Stop Smoking- yup, come back generic space marines, all is forgiven. This "game" sees you setting up your profile and gaining quit advice and tips. More entertaining are the mini games based around the book. The demo I watched saw the player trying prevent nicotine from dragging their character from the social haven of the bar - cue lots of DS stylus action. Niche then, but this could find a cult following.Looking at it overall Far Cry 2 was by far the most impressive thing on show, though Shaun White's snowboarding looked a promising dark horse. But no Splinter Cell Conviction - shown at last year's event but now seemingly in development limbo - and a disappointing looking Brothers in Arms game took some of the shine off. Assassins Creed and Haze - two of Ubisoft's biggest recent releases - failed to live up to the hype, but initial impressions suggest Far Cry 2 at least may buck this trend.
Don't own a DS? Fed up of watching your mates grow ever smarter on Brain Training, while your IQ stagnates? It's okay, help is at hand. The amusingly titledFitbrains, is a casual gaming site, which works exactly like a brain training title - you can play a selection of games designed to test your grey matter in five key areas: memory, concentration, language, logic and spatial skills. If you sign up (it's free) the site provides regular workouts and also tracks your progress and improvements. From the press release:Fit Brains is designed by award-winning Neuroscientist Dr. Paul Nussbaum from University of Pittsburgh and supported by a board of scientific advisors. The team behind Fit Brains has identified the tools necessary to engage and motivate users of all ages, providing individual workouts that can be played alone or against friends and family with leader boards for players in need of a competitive edge. Fit Brains is also home to Dr. Nussbaum's blog where he discusses the most up-to-date trends, research and news about brain health and awareness.At first I wasn't sure how developer Vivity Labs was going to make money out of the site but it,according to Venture Beat, the Premium service, which includes all the performance tracking stats will soon be monitised.The games are a decent, polished selection of familiar brain training and casual game site stalwarts, and the site is well-designed and less cluttered and frenzied than other big games portals. The Fit Brains motto, "guilt-free fun" is a bit off-putting though - first, it sounds like an advert for a diet chocolate bar and secondly, who exactly has ascribed guilt to gaming? This kind of language is bad enough when employed in the marketing of food to women, but it's depressing to see it appropriated into digital culture.Still, a well-conceived, cleverly-targeted little site.
nVidia has announced theTegrafamily of chips that basically combine an ARM processor with an nVidia graphics processor and systems support to provide a "system on a chip" approach to building small internet devices. The claim made in the video is that it delivers more capability in (roughly) a tenth of the space while using a tenth of the power.The ARM chip was first used in the Acorn Archimedes, the world's first Risc-based mass market computer, but is now the standard in smart phones and PDAs. So instead of being an Intel-style "shrunken laptop", you could think of an nVidia system as a sort of enlarged phone.The obvious drawback with the Tegra approach is that it runs Windows CE (or Windows Mobile) not Windows XP, which was written for x86-compatible chips. And if you want to run real Windows software, Tegra doesn't do the job.More than a decade ago, Microsoft wrote Windows CE as a whole new operating system precisely because it thought x86 chips cost too much for casual buyers, and consumed too much power to offer long battery life. It thought there was a market forMobile Companions, webpads and other devices among people who didn't actually need the laptop/desktop version of Windows, or its vast library of programs.Microsoft turned out to be wrong, at the time. It will be interesting to see if times have changed enough to make it right.Intel's Atom takes the opposite approach of trying to reduce the overhead of the x86 code from the past (smaller, cheaper, lower power consumption). And from Computex, it looks as though the Intel Atom is the one that has pulled in the PC manufacturers.
Asus does Atom and WiMax at Computex (Photo: Intel)Intel'sSean Maloneykicked off the Computex exhibition in Taipei, Taiwan, by announcing "the availability of new versions of Intel Atom processors for an emerging class of compact, easy-to-use devices called netbooks and nettops that will bring the Internet to new users,"says Intel.Maloney showed approximately 100 Intel processor and chipset-based motherboards, netbooks and nettops that computer makers are showcasing at Computex this week. Netbooks are compact mobile devices that children, first-time Internet users and people who desire an extra PC can use for basic computing applications, listening to music, e-mailing and surfing the Internet. They can also be used for playing basic online games, social networking and making voice over IP phone calls.TheAcer Inspire One, is a typical example of an Atom-based subnotebook, and Asus has Atom versions of its products. Dell is also expected to enter the market (below). I'm hoping somebody doing Computex will compile a handy list.Intel is also -- and always has been -- Big OnWiMax. The catchy slogan is:Intel inside; WiMAX outside.. As I'vementioned, Intel is combining Wi-Fi and WiMax in its Echo Peak technology.
No wonder Yahoo chief executive Jerry Yang seemed a touch churlish in his response to Microsoft's highest offer of $33 per share for Yahoo. According to documents helpfully released by a Delaware judge in response to a shareholder complaint, "Microsoft had offered to buy the Internet pioneer for about $40 per share in January 2007, only to be rebuffed," reportsAP.But as Jerry must know, shares (like the price of your house) can go down as well as up. Yahoo's shares fell from about $30 to about $20 between the two Microsoft offers, having peaked at $34 in October.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
There's not much more I can say that MFA animation student Daniel Floyd hasn't in this great video about the history of and the problems with sex in games:I've not seen much in this space since theSex in Games conference in 2006. I'm out of the loop.Regina- do tell. Or check out Brenda Brathwaite'sSex in Video Games.Floyd's got some other videogame-related vids too, including one on videogaming and storytelling. Check 'em outhere.
In April, Microsoft made Windows XP available to manufacturers of what it calls ULCPCs (ultra low cost PCs) such as the Asus Eee subnotebook PC rather than see this market go to free Linux. Now it isextending the offerto ultra low cost desktop PCs, which it is calling "nettops" -- an Intel designation for simplified PCs that cost $100 to $299 and are based on the Diamondville version of its Atom processor. Microsoft says:"Customers and partners have made it clear to us that they want Windows on their netbooks and nettops," said Steven Guggenheimer, corporate vice president of the Original Equipment Manufacturer Division at Microsoft. "We are committed to providing Windows solutions for these devices, helping to ensure a high-quality experience for both our partners and customers."There's a supporting quote from Asus:"We have seen much demand for Windows on the Eee PC," said Jerry Sheen, CEO of ASUSTek Computer. "It is great that Microsoft is addressing this customer demand and providing a Windows solution on these devices, which will provide a familiar computing experience."The idea that these machines are only for students or third world buyers also seems to have gone, with the big three -- Dell, HP and Acer -- in the list of hardware backers. It says:Microsoft is working with more than 20 original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) including Acer Inc., ASUSTek Computer Inc., BenQ Corp., Dell Inc., First International Computer Inc., Gigabyte Technology Co. Ltd., HP, Inventec Corp., Lenovo, Medion AG, Micro-Star International Co., Positivo Informatica, Pegatron Corp., Quanta Computer Inc. and Wistron Corp. to deliver Windows-based offerings for consumers.The Microsoft press release amusingly fails to mention Windows XP, but Microsoft doesn't have a low-end version of Vista, so we know it's not offering that.It was a no-brainer to extend the life of XP for low cost netbooks, because most of these are incremental sales: the buyers either couldn't afford a full-spec machine or else they're picking up an Asus as a second or third machine. XP on nettops could be a different issue, because they could well be substitutes for more profitable Vista sales.Still, the Intel Atom bandwagon is finally about to roll, and it's the only one to promise a dramatically increasing PC sales market. Intel's slideware is projecting sales of more than 100 million netbooks and nettops per year by 2011. None of the majors can afford to miss out on that sort of boom, if it happens. Except, possibly, Apple.
The social networking tool Facebook is often used to organise drunken parties and while away boredom, but organisers of a multifaith initiative hope it will combat extremism and improve relations between religious communities.Faithbook, which goes live today on the popular site, uses images, videos, prayers, content from sacred texts and commentary from prominent figures to promote constructive dialogue in the UK and the rest of the world.Rabbi Shoshana Boyd Gelfand, from the Reform Judaism movement, which created the project, said: "We wanted to use the potential of social networking sites as a catalyst for conversations about inclusivity and equality, issues that are facing all religions. We hope people will engage with it."Faithbook's administrators said the site would operate in the same way as a group, with members able to post images, start discussions and write notes.
The Sci-Fi channel has announced plans for a combined MMO/TV show project, in which viewers will decide the course of the latter, through their combined actions in the former.According to the LA Times, the intriguing endeavour is set to begin in 2010 -Trion World Networkhas been signed up to develop the game element. Interestingly, excerpts from the week's interactive action will be used during the show, which is set to feature a 'hyper real', CGI-infused look, similar to the movie, 300.This isn't anentirelyunique project - there have, of course, been dozens of experiments with interactive TV from Channel 4's formativeDubplate Dramato Bebo's Kate Modern. But this is perhaps the first time in which gamers have been given a virtual world in which to quite literally role-play the content of a TV series. The action apparently takes place 100 years into the future on a 'very different' planet Earth to the one we know. That's presumably because it's, like, 100 years into the future.But can an MMO really be used as the stimulus for a coherent narrative drama? It seems from the LA Times story that the game's larger battles will provide the key crossover moments, but what of the smaller individual encounters between characters? And will players change the way they interact with the game in the hope of 'starring' in one of the clips selected to play out on TV? Then, there's the possibility thatgrieferswill just sabotage the whole thing.So, the obvious questions:1. Which current MMO do you think would make a good TV show? 2. Which TV show do you think would be 'enriched' by an accompanying MMO?
TorrentFreak says that the Cleveland Police have confirmed that six people were arrested in connection with the uploading of pre-release music to OiNK, a BitTorrent siteclosed downlast year.The site says:Three of the arrests were made on Friday 23rd May and three more on Wednesday 28th May. The arrested individuals are five men aged between 19 and 33, and a 28-year-old woman. . Suspects were taken to their local police station for questioning and required to provide DNA samples and fingerprints. According to our sources, they were arrested on suspicion of "Conspiracy to Defraud the Music Industry" although this hasn't yet been confirmed by the police. . We can confirm that at least two of the arrests are for the alleged uploading of a single album. All have been bailed pending further enquiries.TorrentFreak reportedPolice Start Making Arrestson Friday, with a follow-up story onSunday.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
The Intel Atom is very much "the chip of the future" for what suppliers hope will bea new generationof hot-selling subnotebook PCs or mobile internet devices (MIDs), so suppliers are now lining up future machines (egDell) and Atom versions of current machines. Asus comes in the latter category, having already scored a big hit with the Eee PC700. IDG News Service reports:The Eee PC 901 was on display at the WiMax Expo, which is being held alongside Taipei's annual Computex exhibition. The laptop is expected to be launched on Tuesday, when Intel announces the availability of the Diamondville version of its Atom processor.Atom chips are relatively power efficient, and apparently the PC901 will have a "battery life of four to six hours".
Acrobat.com icons from TechCrunchAdobe has launched a beta version of what could eventually become an online office service atAcrobat.com. At the moment, it includes Buzzword, a Web-based word processor, ConnectNow conferencing for up to three people, a PDF creator, and file sharing with 5GB of storage. ConnectNow was formerly called Brio.Ireviewed Buzzwordlast October in the Netbytes series.There is coverage atRead Write Web,TechCrunch, and other sites. However, at the moment, it seems to be not working. At least, all I can see is a completely back screen.....
If you fancy being a journalist, there has never been a better time – provided you don't mind giving your services for free.Dozens of websites now want you to report for them, especially if you have been involved in an earthquake or flood, or been on site during a campus massacre. Train and helicopter crashes, forest fires, robberies and countless other events can at least make local news.Among these websites is CNN'siReport. All you have to do is upload your story, photo or video. Last month, CNN featured 915 user reports drawn from more than 10,000 submissions. Both numbers are expected to grow.What's often called "user-generated news" is mainly the result of the mobile phone revolution. People have always been around newsworthy events, but only now do they have the means to report them to hand – literally.With a mobile, you can take a photo, write a caption or story, and send it to a news source in minutes. You can certainly do it faster than CNN can get a reporter to the spot.And you don't have to be brilliant. Shaky footage of a plane crash is better than no footage, and perhaps even makes it look more authentic.Citizen journalismOne of the pioneers of "citizen journalism" was South Korea's OhMyNews, launched in February 2000. It's a professional-looking alternative to paid-for newspapers. A similar but more global example is Topix, which provides news from almost everywhere.iReport is much more like YouTube. It's not just CNN's way of sucking in user-generated content, but a community site where people upload, rate and comment on whatever takes their fancy.What visitors get is "Unedited. Unfiltered. News". That means nobody is vetting or censoring stuff before it goes online, though "inappropriate content" is removed as soon as possible.However, iReport does let you click for Fresh iReports (uploaded minutes earlier) or Highest Rated, Most Viewed, Most Commented, Most Shared, On CNN (the stories that were picked up and broadcast), or the Newsiest stories. The new home page, introduced last Thursday, always shows the 12 newsiest iReports.Of course, not everyone can be at a newsworthy scene, but anyone can tackle a topic from iReport's Assignment Desk. These include: Show us your commute, Polaroid memories, and Father's Day hits and misses.Superstar iReportersPeople who get into the top 20% for their activities, comments and ratings are labelled Superstar iReporters.CNN says: "We know that even here, at CNN, we can't be everywhere, all the time following all the stories you care about. So, we give you iReport.com. You will program it, you will police it; you will decide what's important, what's interesting, what's news."By developing iReport as a separate platform with its own branding, CNN is making sure readers do not confuse its professional news service with an unfiltered platform run by users.I think that's right. Every news organisation should value its integrity higher than it values the web hits from user-generated content.
This is the sort ofnewswe want on a miserable Monday morning. LucasArts are apparently thinking about reviving their classic point and click adventure games for new formats such as the obviously-perfect-for-the-genre Nintendo DS. PR Manager Chris Norris admitted they had looked at it."It is something we are continually looking at - new venues to put out our library of games on. We're not announcing anything about that because honestly I don't know anything about it."Yes, early days and all that but surely the DS is the perfect platform for the likes ofMonkey IslandandIndiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis? Anyway, let's assume for one glorious second LucasArts are going to run with this. Which game should they port over to the DS first?
Facebook is standing at a critical juncture. If it turns one way, it could reach its grandest ambition - to be the Google of people. If it turns the other way, it risks becoming the next AOL or Yahoo - the next has-been. And in a delicious bit of theatre, it is Google that has presented Facebook with this choice. Google has announced a new feature - Friend Connect - that will enable people visiting any participating site to see who among their friends also visits that site. Friend Connect will know who our friends are because we will tell it, allowing the program to pull our connections from social networks such as LinkedIn, Bebo or Facebook.Not so fast, said Facebook, which shut the door on Google, arguing that this violated its terms of service. Google carefully explained in a blog post how it was using the data within Facebook's rules. Then Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg said he needed to talk with Google. Google is calling Facebook's bluff about its role in the social internet: does it want to be an open platform for friendship or a closed clubhouse?The opportunity here is huge - and Facebook has a headstart because it holds the true identities of 70 million people. I would like to augment my identity around the internet, pulling it together with my blog, Flickr photos, YouTube videos, Twitter feed - and connecting with friends to find our common interests. I can do some of that now inside Facebook: I can see the books my friends are reading. But what if I wanted to meet my friends - from Facebook and Twitter, too - around the iPlayer so we could watch shows together? I'd like Facebook to help enable that. But Facebook is concerned about its control - including its ability to ensure my privacy and the quality of my experience there.That is the essential choice Facebook faces: openness v control. That quandary is not unique; every media company is now facing the same choice in the Google age. Google values openness so it can search you and send audience to you.Whoever succeeds in mapping the social graph will better understand how society operates: who is friends with whom; who is influential; what we like; what we do. The winner in the social war will understand how we behave and interact and it can bring that knowledge to commerce, advertising, media, even government. That is the real prize.When Facebook shut Google out, the economist Umair Haque called the move evil. That's going a bit far. But what he's really saying is that Google's right: in the internet, openness is a virtue. "The endgame of competitive dynamics in this space is straightforward: the least evil, most open platform - by necessity - wins," Haque blogged. "Walled gardens lose - hard, fast, and decisively."That is the nature of the Google economy. I call it the law of open networks: the more open a network is, the more control there is at the edges, the more the edges value the network, the more the network is worth. Bottom line: if you want to exploit the network that is the internet, you can't try to control it. That is the network paradox.The bloggers predicted that users would revolt against Facebook's efforts to control their friendship data, siding with Google. Haque expressed that as a law: "As interaction explodes, the costs of evil are starting to outweigh the benefits." That is, when people can talk with, about and around you, stopping them from doing what they want to do is no longer a winning business strategy.In old business, control won. In the Google age, openness wins. That is the fork in the road that Zuckerberg faces. He's not alone. It is the same choice that every business trying to understand the future faces.
Yesterday there was a tribute toDr Jim Gray, the Microsoft researcher lost at sea, at the University of California at Berkeley. According toJohn Markoff of The New York Times:Roughly 600 friends and colleagues attended two separate events on campus intended to capture his technical and personal contributions. The audience was a cross-section of the computer industry's best and brightest, and speaker after speaker repeated the point that virtually everyone thought that Dr Gray was one of their closest friends, only to discover after he disappeared that that had been true for literally thousands of people.Markoff ends his account as follows:While working at IBM's Thomas J. Watson Jr. Research Laboratory in New York, Mr. Gray asked his boss if he could relocate to an IBM laboratory in San Jose. When he was told that he couldn't, he said, "All right, then, I quit." . He then got in his Volkswagen, drove across the country and was rehired by an IBM laboratory in California. . "We had a research group in San Francisco because Jim lived in San Francisco, and if he'd wanted to move to Monaco, we'd have a research center in Monaco," said Rick Rashid, senior vice president for research at Microsoft.
FIAT 500 1.4 SPORT&pound;10,710MILES PER GALLON: 44.8SEATS: 4GOOD FOR: BAMBINOSBAD FOR: GODFATHERSFiat's irresistibly elfin Nuova 500 is a diminutive superhero with the special power to turn any street corner, any grimy urban alleyway, into the backdrop for a Fellini film. It is so loaded with retro Roman glamour it's a surprise not to find Sophia Loren in permanent residence in your passenger seat. Sit in it and your mind wonders to espressos, sunglasses, polo necks and illicit escapades. How many other cars gain you an immediate  round of applause when you park outside a caf&eacute;? (I thought it was an ironic hand clap for the hash I'd made of reversing into a tight space, until a smiling waiter kissed his fingertips and said, 'Bella' - I'm not joking.)The 500 is the 2008 International Car of the Year and has already garnered enough gongs to fill its surprisingly roomy boot. It's had buyers swooning across Europe since its launch last year - and now that it is finally available in this country, the feisty Fiat is setting hearts aflutter quicker than doing star jumps in a sauna.It's exactly 50 years since Fiat first unveiled its original Cinquecento and the Italian maker has gone back to its archives to give that much-adored 500 the Lazarus treatment. Its new 500 manages to walk the very thin line between retro clich&eacute; and modern chic. It is so covetable, so perfectly dinky, that it makes BMW's Mini look bloated and overwheening in comparison. The 500's design touches are a delight. From the flattened exhaust, to the circular headrests and the '500' logos spinning at the centre of the wire wheels, the designers haven't put a foot wrong. But be sure to set aside plenty of time if you are thinking of adding one to your driveway. It comes in a choice of eight pastel and three metallic colours, including the 'Funk white with pearlescent effect' you see here. Then there's a choice of seven alloy wheels and two hubcap designs. Once you've settled on a colour scheme there are eight sticker kits giving 19 further possible customisations. And that's the easy stuff... Which of the 10 badges will you go for? Which of the nine different key fobs take your fancy? And how about some chrome inserts or bumper kits? To be honest, the 500 is so freighted with 'want-one' pedigree that if Fiat offered it only in beige with a biscuit interior it would still be an instant classic.So far so good, we now know Fiat can design a cool car. What we didn't know was whether the hubcaps would fall off at 50mph or the electrics fizzle out at the first sniff of rain. And this is where the real surprise is - the 500 exudes quality. The doors close with a meaty thump, the interior finish is plush and feels well-appointed. There is no sense of corners being cut. To drive it is as cute as it looks. A trip down the A2 in heavy rain could have been unsettling in a car so dinky, but the 500 manfully held its own.Don't be tempted by the 1.4 Sport. It claims 45 miles to the gallon, but achieved barely 30 the week I had it. The diesel will get you close to 70 - which is the sort of espresso-cup-sized consumption a city car should have.martin.love@observer.co.uk
It was 1962, and the end of my first term at London University. A fellow student who, like me, came from Birmingham offered me a lift back home in her father's car. I readily accepted, delighted not to have to spend some of my grant on a train ticket, and eager to experience a journey on the M1 for the first time.The car we travelled in was large and plush, all richly upholstered in leather. It felt like the cutting edge of motoring as we drove along the vast three-lane motorway. Back then there was no speed limit and not many other cars around, and before long we were screaming with the excitement of 'doing a ton'.We stopped at the Watford Gap service area and had a waitress-served meal at the Blue Boar, a diner-style restaurant that could have come straight out of an American film.For the rest of my time at university I travelled back and forth by train, exchanging the luxurious smell of leather for the more familiar smell of steam. It was many years before I travelled on a motorway again, but the exhilaration of that first journey could never be recaptured.&#183;Do you have a memorable journey? Send it tojourneys@observer.co.uk
