So how did you spend your weekend? In front of a screen with a controller in your hand, we hope!
Samsung has stepped up its tit-for-tat court battle against Apple, its newest archrival and biggest client, saying on Monday that it has filed for sales bans on the American company's new iPhone 4S in Australia and Japan.The move came after Samsung filed preliminary injunction motions against the latest iPhone in France and Italy less than a day after the device was unveiled, claiming the product infringed its patents on certain mobile communications (in Australia) and interface (in Japan) technologies.Florian Müller, an independent analyst of patent disputes within the electronics business,forecaston Monday morning that Samsung's attempt to get an injunction in Australia, though he said the situation is "less clear" in Japan. "I believe Samsung's attack on the iPhone 4S in Australia is doomed to fail because it relates to three patents declared essential to the 3G telecommunications standard. On Friday, a Dutch judge already made it clear that Samsung can't seek an injunction based on such patents, and I'd be extremely surprised if an Australian judge took a different perspective on FRAND (fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory) licensing commitments," he wrote.The patents in Australia relate to basic mobile functionality which Samsung would be obliged to license under FRAND terms, Müller says. Those in Japan relate to user interface function which Samsung would not be obliged to license, but it would have to prove in court that they are valid "since Apple will be sure to contest their validity", said Müller.He thinks that Samsung is "under massive pressure" in Australia, and that court wins for Apple there mean that the US maker of the iPad and iPhone could potentially seek bans on any Android device – both phones and tablets - including those from vendors such as Motorola, now owned by Google, and HTC.Since April, Apple and Samsung have been locked in an increasingly acrimonious legal battle in 10 countries involving smartphones and tablet computers as they jostle for the top spot in the fast-growing markets. Apple has won a number of injunctions preventing Samsung from selling its Galaxy Tab 10.1in tablet in Germany, Holland and Australia, and a new court battle is taking shape in the US.Yet Apple is also Samsung's biggest customer, buying mainly chips and displays from the giant Korean electronics business.Samsung has had a number of setbacks in its efforts. Its request for a sales ban against some Apple products was rejected by a Dutch court on Friday. Samsung said on Monday that it had appealed the Australian court's decision to grant a preliminary injunction on the Galaxy Tab 10.1."We do respect Apple as our biggest client but we won't stand idly by, letting them infringe on our interest," Samsung Electronics CEO Choi Gee-sung was quoted as saying by a spokesperson last week.The president and chief operating officer of Samsung Electronics, Lee Jae-yong, left for the United States on Sunday to attend Apple's private memorial service for Steve Jobs, a spokeswoman for Samsung Group said.Local media speculated that Lee may have a separate meeting with Apple CEO Tim Cook and discuss ways to resolve the intensifying legal row, but the spokeswoman denied the reports.
Some of Silicon Valley's top executives were set to gather at Stanford university on Sunday evening to celebrate the life and genius of the Apple founder Steve Jobs.Fittingly perhaps for a memorial of a man who was notoriously secretive, the precise location of the event and its guest list is under wraps. It is being billed as strictly private, with no public or media coverage welcome.Last week Jobs had a small private funeral following his death on 5 October, aged 56, from pancreatic cancer. On Wednesday morning, another private event will be held at Apple's Cupertino headquarters for the company's employees to pay their respects to their deceased leader.Despite the primarily private nature of the commemorations, Jobs's many admirers and fans have been able to express their sentiments through an outpouring of messages and cards to Apple stores and the company'swebsite.In California, the governor Jerry Brown declared Saturday "Steve Jobs Day". In a proclamation, he said: "It is fitting that we mark this day to honour his life and achievements as a uniquely Californian visionary. He epitomised the spirit of a state that an eager world watches to see what will come next."Security around the Stanford commemoration has been so tight that scarcely any details have yet emerged. Reutersreportedthat the president of one of Apple's bitterest rivals, Samsung Electronics, Lee Jae-yong, would be among the attendants.Samsung and Apple are fighting for supremacy in the smartphone and tablet markets.
Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, has praised Steve Jobs for helping devise the machine that he used to write the software.Berners-Lee wrote the code for the web while working at the physics research institute Cern in 1991, using a NeXT Computer - the company set up by Jobs after he was ejected from Apple in 1985.In a post on his personal blog entitled "Steve Jobs and the actually usable computer", Berners-Lee - whom  nobody would be likely to call naive or inexperienced with computers - says that "A big thing Steve Jobs did for the world was to insist that computers could be usable rather than totally infuriating".He says of the NeXT, whose software became the basis for the desktop Mac OS X operating system, and then the iOS software powering the iPhone and iPad, that "The NeXT was brilliant. The NeXT had (arguably too) many things introduced at once -- removable optical storage, Objective C, DSP for sound and movies, Mach kernel, unix for a PC, display Postscript, InterfaceBuilder and so on. Yes, they never got the price down and the optical disks proved unreliable. But Steve and NeXTStep ended up saving Apple, and there must be a lesson that it is worth hanging on to cool things: you never know when they will in fact become mainstream."He recalls that when he unboxed the NeXT computer in Sept 1990), "it had automatically set up for me as a naive user a unix mail account, which staggered the local unix gurus who normally had to help users of new unix [machines] struggle with sendmail configuration files."The default mailbox contained an audio file with a welcome from Jobs about his vision, including, says Berners-Lee, "It's not about Personal Computer .. it's about *Interpersonal* Computing". Exactly."He says that programming the world wide web "was remarkably easy" using the software modules already on board: he created a subclass of the existing software module, added the internet code, added the menus using the NeXT Interface Builder (which still exists today on Mac OS X); after that the code framework for the application was generated by the system. "That is a platform," comments Berners-Lee. "Something which allows you to build things which without it would have been possible, but a lot of work."He also recalls the fact that the two almost met once, at a meeting of NeXT developers in France. Jobs, however, was running late for his plane back to the US - and had to leave before Berners-Lee and Robert Cailliau, who worked on the WorldWideWeb.app on NeXT with him, could show it to him."Steve was a champion of usable technology - even sexy technology," concludes Berners-Lee, who still uses Apple computers now. "Intuitive on the outside and extensible and cool engineering on the inside. The geeks among us need to be at the same time deeply insistent technically on beautiful, clean, extensible design inside, and utterly impatient as naive end users about the outside."
Back in the spring of 2007, the iPhone had yet to go on sale in the UK, and a BlackBerry was still a status symbol for those at the top of the corporate ladder. Asked then whether Steve Jobs's vision of turning phones into computers could dent the BlackBerry's popularity, its creator, Mike Lazaridis, was unimpressed. "How much presence does Apple have in [the] business [market]?" he said. "It's vanishingly small."For a while the market proved him right. By the following year, Research In Motion (RIM), the company Lazaridis founded while a student, was worth $80bn (£50bn). He and co-chief executive Jim Balsillie held 10% of the stock, a paper fortune worth $4bn&nbsp;apiece.Today, RIM's reputation is in tatters. Hammered by falling profits, the company is now valued at just under $13bn. The BlackBerry's popularity with British teenagers led it to be dubbed the "riot phone" after this summer's rampages. Its pioneering mobile email service has just emerged from its worst-ever system failure – almost four days of outage spread across the world and into the company's North American heartland. Public figures from Sir Alan Sugar to Alastair Campbell have vented their fury.BlackBerry's biggest fans, particularly at the big US banks, are casting about for alternatives. While BlackBerrys are still considered the most secure smartphone, the brand is swiftly moving from "must have" to "must I have?""This outage couldn't have come at a worse time," says Francisco Jeronimo, research manager at analyst IDC. "It harms BlackBerry's brand. Corporations, users and mobile operators are now asking themselves: how reliable is RIM?"Activist shareholders, egged on by financial analysts, are hammering on the boardroom door, calling for Lazaridis and Balsillie to leave. Chief among them is Vic Alboini, who runs Jaguar Financial, a merchant bank which claims to have support from 12 of RIM's top 20 stockholders for a change at the top."Even Amazon is coming out with a mobile platform," he says. "There's a lot of competition out there, and there are only going to be three to five players in the next few years. Where is RIM going to be in that environment?"Alboini believes RIM can be saved with a "transformational" chief executive and more technology expertise on its board. He has a point: of the seven independent directors, only two have technology or telecoms experience. One is a former Telefónica executive, the other a former IBM executive – respected brands, but hardly cutting-edge Silicon Valley technology companies.Balsillie and Lazaridis are the only managers with a position on the board, and they jointly hold the chairmanship. The situation has drawn protests from other shareholders, such as Northwest &amp; Ethical Investments, which agreed to drop its campaign for separation of the chair and chief executive roles subject to a corporate governance review by RIM's independent directors, which will issue its findings in January 2012.Between 2006 and 2009, the company had no chair at all. It was a period during which critics say Balsillie took his eye off the ball. An avid ice hockey fan, he made a number of unsuccessful attempts to buy professional US teams and relocate them to Canada. The adventure brought him in to conflict with the National Hockey League, which declared his $240m bid for the bankrupt Phoenix Coyotes of Arizona inadmissible because, it claimed, he lacked the "good character and integrity" needed to own a franchise.Meanwhile, RIM's competitive advantage was slipping away. In 2007, Nokia and RIM held the market between them. Now the field is more evenly spread, with innovation led by Apple and Google's Android operating system, in partnership with Motorola and east Asian manufacturers like HTC and Samsung. Nokia has imploded, abandoning its own Symbian operating system in favour of Microsoft's Windows Phone, in a move that has left it unable to compete for most of this year while it works through the transition.Worldwide, RIM's market share peaked at 20% in 2009, according to IDC. At the time, no one except Nokia sold more smartphones. Apple had 15% of the market, but it has continued to grow. By the summer, RIM's share was down to 12%, Apple was at 19% and growing, and Samsung had sprung to 16%. "Market leaders who have strong and comfortable positions don't see that, from one day to the other, things can change," says Jeronimo. "I haven't seen another company in the tech sector lose market share and stock value as quickly as Nokia and RIM have done in the last year."Only in the UK has BlackBerry continued to capture hearts and thumbs. RIM hit 30% share in the first quarter of this year among British customers, and despite a drop to 23% over the summer it is still the most popular handset maker.Apple has had its upheavals in recent months, including the death of Jobs. But pre-orders of its latest handset, the iPhone 4S, have broken records. As they arrived in the shops on Friday, technophiles queued in their thousands to be the first to show off the latest edition.The RIM website describes Lazaridis, who famously built a record player from Lego aged four, as a "visionary, innovator and engineer of extraordinary talent". But while technology's other famous Lego fans, Sergey Brin and Larry Page at Google, have fallen over themselves to develop new products ranging from driverless cars to television software, Lazaridis has not.His view until last year was that touchscreen handsets would never catch on with corporate users, who still mainly needed their phones for calls and to type  business messages.And he may have a point: on Friday a hedge fund manager who spent her morning queueing for a new iPhone said it would only be for personal use. "Even with the disruptions, I prefer a BlackBerry for work because it's easier to type emails".A senior banker at Morgan Stanley, who was on the road during every day of last week's outage, said: "My first reaction was to be cross with my IT directors. I'm not going to change my view because of BlackBerry's outage, but I need my bank to have a contingency plan." He is pleased his employer is trialling iPads, but only wants them as a fallback.RIM has nonetheless decided to compete directly with Apple. Last spring, it bit the bullet and decided to scrap its operating system in favour of something more web friendly, and bought a small company called QNX Software Systems. The QNX handsets will not be ready for some months, and RIM shareholders may want to await their arrival before deciding on a management change.But the omens are not good. In April, RIM launched a tablet computer, the BlackBerry Playbook, based on QNX. It failed to take off, selling 500,000 units in its first quarter and 200,000 in the following three months. Apple has sold more than 30m iPads since April 2010.Apple showed that tech companies can come back from the brink. But finding a visionary leader is easier said than done. Finding a cash-rich buyer may be easier. Oracle is thought to be keen to get into hardware, and has $32bn in cash on its balance sheet. Google had $36bn when it announced a $12.5bn bid for Motorola.Apologising for the system failure on video last week, Lazaridis told his customers: "I'd like to give you an estimated time of full recovery around the world but I cannot do this."Those hoping for a return to normal service at what was once a pioneering company may have to wait some time.
It's funny how fickle fame can be. One week Steve Jobs dies and his death tops the news agendas in dozens of countries. Just over a week later,Dennis Ritchiedies and nobody – except for a few geeks – notices. And yet his work touched the lives of far more people than anything Steve Jobs ever did. In fact if you're reading this online then the chances are that the router which connects you to the internet is running a descendant of the software that Ritchie and his colleague Ken Thompson created in 1969.The software in question is an operating system calledUnixand the record of how it achieved its current unacknowledged dominance is one of the great untold stories of our time. It emerged from Bell Labs – the R&amp;D facility of AT&amp;T, the lightly regulated monopoly that ran the US telehone network for generations. Dennis Ritchie and Ken Thompson were two ferociously bright Bell programmers who had been assigned to work with MIT on the design of an impossibly complex multi-user operating system called Multics. In the end, the plug was pulled on the project, with the result that Bell Labs found itself with two pissed-off hackers on its books. Ritchie and Thompson badly needed a new operating system to provide an environment for their own programming, had hoped that Multics would provide it and had greatly enjoyed working on the project. Back in the lab they decided that they would just have to build the operating system themselves. So in a fantastic burst of creativity (and without asking anyone's permission) they wrote Unics (as a counterpart to Multics). Inevitably the 'cs' became 'x' and Unix was born.Thus did AT&amp;T find itself the astonished proprietor of a uniquely powerful and innovative operating system. The problem was that it couldn't sell it, because under theConsent Decree that gave it the telephone monopolyAT&amp;T was not allowed to be in the computer business. So the researchers in Bell Labs did what geeks do – they gave it away to their peers in university research labs, under a licence that permitted the recipients to modify and improve it. In doing this Ritchie and Thompson unwittingly launched the academic discipline of computer science, because university departments were suddenly able to give their students software that was not only powerful (and malleable) but also free. The result was that virtually every computer science student in the world became a Unix geek in the course of his or her education. Unix was to computer science what the Bible is to divinity students. The difference was that geeks were free to modify and improvetheirbible – which is what Bill Joy and his fellow students at Berkeley did when they created their own version of Unix, codenamed BSD (for Berkeley Software Distribution) – of which more in a moment.In due course, AT&amp;T escaped the shackles of the Consent Decree and started to assert proprietary rights over Unix. This spurred an MIT programmer named Richard Stallman to embark on a project to change the world. He founded the free software movement, invented a clever way of using copyright law to preserve the freedom of programmers to modify software, and embarked on the GNU project to create a functional clone of Unix that would be free of proprietary constraints. (GNU stands for "Gnu's not Unix" which is the kind of recursive joke only programmers enjoy.) Stallman, who is one of the great figures of our time, built most of the software tools needed for his great project, but before he could write the kernel of the operating system a Finnish hacker namedLinus Torvaldsdid it – and released it in 1991 asLinux.The rest, as they say, is history. Linux became one of the greatest collaborative ventures the world has seen (second only to Wikipedia), in which geographically dispersed programmers collaborate over the internet to debug, improve, extend and enhance a complex operating system that is not only remarkably stable and reliable but is also free. Because it's free and malleable, every manufacturer in the world who needs a stable and flexible operating system to run an electronic device tends to use Linux – which is how your TV's set-top box and your broadband router and maybe also your smartphone comes to be a Linux box. The same goes for the millions of PCs that make up Google's server farms. In that sense, we are all now Linux (and, by inference, Unix) users.The neatest twist of all, however, involves Apple. OS X – the operating system that now powers every Apple product – is actually built on the Berkeley distribution of Unix, so if you hack into your iPhone what you'll find is BSD 4.2. You could say, therefore, that what Apple really did was to give Unix a pretty face. I've often wondered what Dennis Ritchie would have made of that. Now that he's gone, we'll never know. What we do know, though, is that we owe him more than we realised.
To have and, if possible, to hold is to be and to do, said Jean-Paul Sartre in his essayBeing and Nothingness. "The totality of my possessions reflects the totality of my being," he wrote in 1949. "I am what I have… what is mine is myself." Researchers have spent hundreds of years trying to define when and how this integrated idea of possession as something that makes us who we are developed, what it means, its function and whether it's exclusively human. The short answers to these questions are typically evasive which is probably why the introduction of a new technology that puts this debate to the fore has left us floundering in a social, philosophical and moral morass.The web erodes our sense of what can be owned – whether it's ours or someone else's creation – because a virtual thing can be "owned" by a vast number of people at the same time. It becomes hard to pinpoint who can claim original rights to the thing and who has access to it. I can have a copy of a photo, a song, a document or a site on my computer, and a million other people can have the same on theirs. I can exercise ownership rights by giving these assets to whomsoever I like, and the person who originally created them can't do a thing about it.Thus, with no obvious owner, and with a sense that, by virtue of its market abundance, a piece of content's value is cheap, it can be inferred that it's psychologically and morally justifiable to take ownership of things online by simply claiming them. But is what we're witnessing in the marketplace of "the economy of the mind" described by John Perry Barlow, cyberlibertarian, Grateful Dead lyricist and author of "A Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspace", a shift in our psychological concept of ownership? Not really: it's just context.There is no indication that theft of physical property is on the rise unless, as observed in theUK riotsin August 2011, isolated incidents transform localised social norms to say it's OK. Contrary to the headlines, downloading stuff online hasn't made us more likely to pinch a DVD from a shop. No, as Brian Sheehan and his colleagues at Syracuse University reported in their paper "Motivations for Gratifications of Digital Music Piracy Among College Students", we'll take control of things that appear – because of our social environment – to be there for the taking. Just like offline. It doesn't matter that the things that once were physical are now abstractions in the cloud that we tap into when we want them. What's changed is how much stuff we have access to that is – because of the social contracts we operate within online – seemingly free.The proliferation of digital ephemera has not changed the psychological experience of ownership. Psychological ownership implies an identity transference, often due to some kind of investment. This still happens with digital-only creations and, frankly, is encouraged. Web developers offer extensive libraries of personalisation options to appeal to our desire to own.Take an example from the game industry: massively multiplayer online games specifically design their products to encourage long-term interactions by giving players "ownership" of their avatars and virtual property.The demise of the gameAsheron's Call 2at the end of 2005 caused widespread virtual protests and led some traumatised players to real-world therapy sessions because they felt they had lost pieces of themselves at the flip of a switch.Psychological bruises also appear when a thing is taken from one context without an owner's permission and put into a new one that doesn't mesh with the identity of the original owner. Uploading personal photos to social networks immediately divests them from an owner's portfolio; not only are they now the property of the social network developers, but they are assumed – because of how we've socially constructed the online space – to be public property. They can be accessed and appropriated by anyone; Facebook photos are liberally snatched from open accounts and splashed across newspapers, asnurse Rebecca Leightondiscovered after her arrest and subsequent release without charge over patient deaths last summer. The question of psychological ownership in the virtual world extends beyond the artefacts you create: even your identity is everyone's property.The system of social transaction we operate within online is not new, but the web has exploded it to a massive scale. The creative and legal outcomes are other people's concern: I'm only interested in how the web affects the individual, and digital or not, the research demonstrates that the sense of psychological ownership over binary digits is extremely real. The conflicts are apparent: the perceived personal value remains the same, yet the norms of the space assert a free for all. Is the answer a psychological or social shift in the web-world towards a collaborative model of ownership? Given the research that says that psychological ownership has evolved because of our physical needs for security, food and reproduction, and for our social need to control, I'd be surprised if such a shift occurred just because of a technology.Psychologically, we lay claim to things because they represent who we are and we derive pleasure from this form of self-expression. The web has created a rich transaction space with unknown boundaries. It's what we cannot control that's causing the problem.
It would be grossly unfair to criticise the medium of video games as creatively narrow-minded, based purely on the blockbusters that dominate the charts.To do so would be to turn a blind eye to the variation and spirit of experimentalism that thrive at the fringes of gaming culture beyond the realm of the cliche-riddled military shooter. Out there, indie studios push the boundaries of what a game can be and solo developers reimagine seasoned genre conventions.It's also where many games are most accessible, as you can play for free in a normal web browser without the need to download anything, on almost any computer that can connect to the internet.Take, for example, the enchanting, newly released piece of interactive fictionThe Playby Deirdra Kiai. As the director of a play beset by misfortune, you must use a series of links to make sure a dress rehearsal over-run marred by disaster and personality clashes reaches its conclusion.In a similar vein, narrative adventureThe Binaryby BloomEngine explores ideas of minimalism in storytelling and takes you on a journey through history as you strive to keep the passage of time on track. It is slick, cool and aloof in equal measure.Finally,Rebuild 2by Sarah Northway takes on more familiar gaming conventions and creates something original and vividly fun from the component parts. In mixing a city management strategy template with a zombie outbreak/survival theme,Rebuild 2shows there's plenty of potential left in the eternally popular "god game" genre.
Price £18,750MPG 65.7Top speed 134mphThis summer, a decade after production started, the 2,000,000th new Mini was driven off the futuristic assembly line at Plant Oxford by David Cameron.  Of these 2m, 75% have been exported to 89 countries around the world from Australia to Venezuela (Mini lovers don't seem to live in countries starting with X, Y or Z). The most insatiable consumer by far is the US – the autophillic Americans just can't get enough of our little cars.The particular Mini chosen for the special honour of being driven by the PM (and of being the 2,000,000th  off the line) was a white convertible (the most popular colour, just ahead of black and red) with a&nbsp;bespoke denim folding roof. Before clambering in and releasing the handbrake,  Mr Cameron addressed the nation: "It's a real privilege to drive this true British icon… " And with that, the latest addition to one of the world's great motoring sagas trundled down the ramp – a&nbsp;true British icon that is now owned by Germans and was inspired by  the original designs  of the Turkish-born  Sir Alec Issigonis.We certainly love the new Mini now. Plant Oxford can't make them fast enough. It employs 3,700 men and women – and 500 robots – and a new one is born every 68 seconds; no wonder it feels as if they're taking over our cities. But it wasn't always this way. For 42 years before the new Mini shouldered its way on to our roads, the dinky old Mini had been playing a&nbsp;host of roles in all of our lives. It was quirky and sexy, cool and silly – a true British eccentric. There can't be many of us who don't have a Mini memory from those years. I remember being glued to the window of my mother's car in 1973, eyes on stalks as our cat gave birth to her litter on the leather back seat. "Eargh, the kittens are in plastic bags," screamed my fanciful younger brother.In comparison we thought the new&nbsp;Mini was too big, too bold, too brash. It was charmless and ugly. Yes, it actually started and it didn't leak. But who cared about that? The new Mini certainly didn't care. It ploughed on and one by one it won us all over – estate agents first. Now I just need to witness another David Attenborough moment and I'll have come full circle…In the meantime Mini has popped out the Cooper SD – a car blessed with the biggest engine in the company's entire 52-year history. The unit, which will be available in all of Mini's body types – hatch, Clubman, Countryman and Coupe – is the same 2-litre single-turbo which stars in BMW's award-winning 118d. It&nbsp;churns out a blistering 141bhp yet coughs up a mere 114g/km of CO2(it will cost you just £30 in road tax) and it will blast you to 62mph in 8.1 seconds. So much power coupled with the car's much-loved, sure-footed, go-kart handling is startling – and furiously addictive. Addictive enough to help Mini towards its next million-car milestone.
In this age of instant gratification, disappointment is all too easily experienced; why should something only be a little bit better than its predecessor when much, much better is what the punter craves? A cursory glance atForza 4gives the impression that developer Turn 10 has given us just enough to let us know we are hungry, so that we keep coming back to the table for helpings ofForza 5,6...23. It feels that it has tried to do just enough improving onForza&nbsp;3, released in 2009, to tempt us back into the market. It could all be a bit disappointing. But is it?There's no denying that the newForzalooks lovely. Everything is shiny and you're encouraged to do more than simply drive the game's stunning cars. Using the Xbox's Kinect system in the Autovista section, the player can examine a car as though in a showroom, without leaving the sofa. Climb in a Ferrari, fire the engine, honk the horn. All very clever and, to be honest, all a bit pointless. As is the introduction by Jeremy Clarkson; people were in love with cars long before his sturdy trousers squeezed into a bucket seat and don't need to be told why now.Beyond that, there isn't much new, bar a few additional cars, tracks and an interface that talks you through where to go and what to drive. Annoyingly, that "adman" voiceover pronounces coupe as if it were a house for a chicken, which must enrage Clarkson. But this game is about driving and that's where it finally hits the spot.At first, the feel is a little flimsy, like an arcade game from the tail end of the previous century, and one yearns for the more purposeful experience of PS3'sGran Turismo 5– but patience and the need to fiddle is required.Tinkering with the difficulty settings while journeying through the career mode can eventually lead to a sensation&nbsp;thatTop Gearpresenters feel is theirs by right. It takes a while but the rewards are worth it; controlled drifts, understeer into a corner and a "dab of oppo" on the way out, buying time by minimising steering. It provides a sensation that in reality only top-earning BBC presenters, footballers and bankers can afford. That will no doubt keep Jeremy shrouded in happiness. You will be too.
Off the Recordis a garish zombie adventure that takes the plot of last year'sDead Rising 2– an outbreak of the undead in the Vegas-like Fortune City – and rewrites it with Frank West, the photographer star of the originalDead Rising, in place of motorcycle lug Chuck Greene.This isn't all bad. Chuck was stiff and boring, and had awful peroxide highlights. Plus the game itself is improved by Frank's camera mechanic, with points awarded for snapping particularly dramatic, horrific or (a sign of the game's grim humour) erotic scenes.Tellingly, though, the highlight of the game remains the improvisational weapons system, which makes everything from cranium-powdering cinder blocks to giant foam fingers part of your anti-zombie arsenal, offering sadistically inventive ways to combine them (the bucket-plus-drill murder helmet remains a favourite). Even with new mission threads, areas and the ability to explore the city free from time constraints,Off the Recordnever feels entirely new.
Prefixing the words Jonah Lomu to a rugby game is fraught with risk – back&nbsp;in 1997 the originalJonah Lomu Rugbyset a benchmark in terms of gameplay that is still yet to be matched. Whether or not this 2011 incarnation can replace its predecessor at the rugby-sim pinnacle is open to debate but it's certainly an impressive effort, and far superior to the recentRWC&nbsp;2011.Visually it's good, with realistic player likenesses and well modelled stadiums. The weather effects in particular stand out: when it rains the ball becomes slippery and harder to handle, while swirling winds make kicking tricky.It plays well, but there are a few odd&nbsp;aspects – scrums appear to float above the pitch and a well-timed push allows packs to gain an unrealistic amount of ground. Offloading in a tackle is also too easy, while getting a lineout throw straight is harder than you'd expect.There's a large selection of sides, clubs and nations, with a good number of competitions, providing plenty of replayability. The main complaint is that withRWC 2011snatching official licences, quite a few national teams have fictional kits and players – although an extensive editor allows this to be corrected with enough time and effort.
A hacker has been occupying my email account for the past week. And he or she may still be there. A disembodied intruder, this person has been stalking my inbox, replying to messages, signing off with my nickname and refusing to let me in. They have been going through my personal history and making judgments about my character. In the weirdest twist, the hacker even started writing to me. If it wasn't so unsettling, it could be the plot of a black postmodern comedy.It started when my phone went crazy in the middle of a crucial meeting. Some 5,000 contacts received an email from my account saying that I'd been held up at gunpoint in Madrid. My internet-savvy friends sent texts to say I'd been hacked, while my elderly, migrant and more vulnerable friends wanted to know where to send the cash. According to the story, my mobile phone and credit cards had been taken and I was badly in need of money. There was a number to call to reach me at my hotel – presumably chargeable – and a Western Union account had been set up in my name to wire a transfer.Suddenly you're hit with an organisational bombshell – drop what you're doing; freeze your bank account; answer anxious calls; lose crucial, last-minute messages; miss work deadlines; irritate bosses; reset all email-based passwords; forget to pay e-bills; irritate friends who think you're ignoring them. The realisation dawns that the email account is the nexus of the modern world. It's connected to just about every part of our daily life, and if something goes wrong, it spreads. But the biggest effect is psychological. On some level, your identity is being held hostage.Out of sheer frustration, I fired off an email to my occupied address labelled "to those who hacked my account", laying out how I felt and asking for my contacts. Shockingly, I got an almost instantaneous reply. The hacker said they would return my address book for £500. It was unreal. There I was, sitting at my laptop, alone in my flat, receiving emails from someone claiming to be me. Whoever it was must have been sitting watching my account and responding in real time. Who else was this person replying to in the same way?I wrote back straight away, saying that I didn't have those kind of finances and pointing out that I had no reason to believe the deal would be kept even if I did send the money. I couldn't help but end with a rhetorical: "Do you ever feel even slightly bad about what you are doing?"Just for a minute, the hacker seemed anxious to prove that he or she had some sense of morality. According to this individual, it "didn't feel great" to be a hacker. They said they didn't have a choice. I immediately asked why. They said their life "wasn't as nice and sweet" as mine. In what I guess was supposed to be a gesture of magnanimity, this individual said that they would release my contacts for just £300, and even offered to send me 20 contacts upfront as a sign of "goodwill". You could tell this person thought they were being reasonable – they insisted that their actions weren't as bad as robbing people on the streets.What I wanted to reply, but found difficult to articulate at the time, was that hacking can be worse than that. When someone holds you up in the street, you lose a set of isolated possessions and then get to walk away. But if someone colonises one of your chief platforms of interaction with the world, there's always a feeling of "what next?" They can read your most intimate emails and potentially pass them on. A simple search would allow them to find out not just my address, but also those of my friends and family – something that crossed my mind when I registered my case with the police.Apparently some 3,000 people reported such scams last year, but too few of these are brought to justice. The police haven't even returned my call for a full report. When I did eventually get access to my account back through Gmail a week later, I found that the hacker had personally written to more than 30 people who had asked about my problems in Madrid. The intruder said I'd had a "terrible experience" and signed off with my nickname, "Row". The fact that someone could be so callous to people who cared about me – all in my name – left me furious.I was lucky. The only reason I was able to regain access to my account was through chance – a friend of a friend works at Google. Until then, my hacker had given me better feedback than Gmail and Google, following my attempts to get in touch with them. The company that presents itself as the friendly face of the web doesn't have a single human being to talk to in these circumstances. The UK office just cut me off and, after a friend waited 20 minutes to ask the head US team if there was anything that could be done to help, they received a simple "nope".When someone did bother to look into my problem, it only took five minutes to fix. The hacker had doubled the verification process on my password so I couldn't get in. Once Google disabled it from the inside, I was able to reset all my security checks without a problem.Even now, I'm not sure it's over. In one last message, addressed from myself just two days ago, the hacker wrote: "I see you got the account back. Sorry for the trouble." I never replied, so I guess I'll never know what this individual's circumstances were. But I feel the need to understand them. Perhaps we believe that if we find reasons for things, we'll feel safer. Perhaps it's about restoring a bit more faith in human nature. Either way, my hacker seems to have disappeared back into the 21st-century ether. Although, of course, they could be reading this now.Rowenna Davis is a freelance journalist
HP's announcement that it might spin off or sell its PC business in August didn't hurt its sales in the third quarter, according to data from research companies Gartner and IDC, which said that it retained its spot as top seller. Yet Dell, expected to benefit, subsided to third place behind China's Lenovo. Meanwhile Apple continued its remarkable record of growing its share faster than the PC market, which has now gone on for 22 quarters: in the US it moved to third place behind HP and Dell with 12.9% of sales.Data from the two companies indicates that PC sales worldwide grew sluggishly in the third quarter, with Gartnersayingthat they grew by just 3.2% to 91.8m - below its forecast of 5.1% - while rival IDCputthe figure at 91.9m, which it says was up 3.6% - but below its forecast in August of 4.5%.Total sales for North America and the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) fell from 44.9m to 44.5m, according to Gartner's figures. The two companies use slightly different measurements. The numbers are aggregated from many places, typically including shipments to distributors, making them imprecise measurements but valuable for gauging the overall direction of the markets.Worldwide PC sales by region, 2009 Q2- 2011 Q3. Source: Gartner.A surprising beneficiary of the third quarter was Hewlett-Packard, which kept its spot at the top of the tree and increased its PC shipments faster than the rest of the industry, growing 5.3% year-on-year despite the uncertainty that attached to its announcement under its now-departed chief executive Leo Apotheker in August that itmight spin off or sell its PC division. HP led world PC sales with more than 16m sales, while Dell, which had been expected to benefit from HP's announcement, instead shrank by 1.6% and fell to third place with between 10.6m (Gartner) and 11m (IDC) sales.Dell was overtaken by China's Lenovo, which leapt to second place with more than 12m sales from less than 10m a year ago, growing by more than 25%. It is the first time that the company has had second spot. It has recently merged with NEC and taken over Medion of Germany.Apple continued its long track record of growing sales more quickly than the rest of the PC market, which has now gone on for 22 quarters, and which has been larger than the PC market for 26 of the past 27 quarters.Gartner says that its shipments grew by 21.5% in the third quarter, helped particularly by sales of its extra-thin MacBook Air laptop. In the US it was the third largest computer vendor, according to Gartner, with 2.3m shipments - a 12.9% share - behind Dell (3.9m, 21.9%) and HP (5.1m, 28.9%)Analysts are divided over whether "media tablets", notably Apple's iPad which dominates tablet sales in North America and Europe, are having an effect on the market. Mikako Kitagawa, principal analyst at Gartner, said: "As expected, back-to-school PC sales were disappointing in mature markets, confirming that the consumer PC market continues to be weak. The popularity of non-PC devices, including media tablets, such as the iPad and smartphones, took consumers' spending away from PCs."She added: "The main contributor to the weak consumer PC market in the U.S. was intensified competition for consumers' money – media tablets and smartphones took centre stage in the US retail sector, and the expectation is for continuing demand for these devices throughout the [Christmas] holiday season."But Loren Loverde, IDC vice president of Worldwide Consumer Device Trackers, was less certain: "Although we don't see media tablets and other devices replacing PCs, questions on how products will evolve, and consumer interest in these and other categories are providing a distraction. And while price remains critical, many users are delaying PC purchases for the moment. Still, there are opportunities, as demonstrated by Lenovo's gains, and we expect PCs to find stronger demand in the coming years."IDC's Jay Chou, senior research analyst with IDC's Worldwide Quarterly PC Tracker, forecast faster growth in 2012, suggesting PC vendors will address "the evolving usage models by integrating more of the features in ultra-mobile devices."
RAGE, PC, PS3 &amp; XboxWaking up from cryogenic stasis, you're ejected into what's left of the Earth: a Mad Max-style, mutant-infested wasteland.Saved from death at the hands of horribly agile, scythe-wielding monstrosities, you repay the kindness by undertaking a succession of jobs. While these never go much beyond fetching things and eradicating baddies, the action is fierce enough and the dusty wild west aesthetic never less than gorgeous. The game all ends rather abruptly, but the journey to that point is a raucous and wildly engaging ride.Bethesda, £34.99-£49.99Forza Motorsport 4, XboxForza Motorsport 4Along with 500 upgradeable cars, a globe-spanning collection of tracks and entirely superfluous Kinect integration, Forza's fourth iteration arrives infused with Top Gear, from its Clarkson-intoned introduction to regular visits to the series' test track. Looking absolutely staggering and supplying a palpable sense of the weight, momentum and handling characteristics of each car, its AI racers are no longer infallible and can often be seen slipping from the track in a doomed bid to stop you overtaking. Conceived as Xbox's answer to Gran Turismo, this surpasses its inspiration. Best racing game ever.Microsoft, £49.99Dark Souls, PS3 &amp; XboxDark SoulsWhere modern games are easy, Dark Souls' predecessor – Demon's Souls – was difficult to the point of abject brutality, teaching you repeated lessons in survival, all of which ended with a view of your character's broken corpse and the loss of appallingly hard-won equipment and experience. Dark Souls manages to be even harder, but somewhere in the endless dance of death amid the dank, vast network of subterranean corridors and tunnels, there's an experience of stunning, almost cathartic beauty for those masochistic enough to discover it.Namco Bandai, £49.99Games newsFarming Simulator 2011Other games out now includeAce Combat: Assault Horizon, which adds helicopters and AC-130 gunships to its wafer-thin fighter plane thrills …Kinectimals Now With Bearsbrings lots of cute fluffy pandas and koalas to one of the highlights of Xbox's Kinect lineup …Just Dance 3lets up to four players get their simultaneous grooves on with a wedding-style soundtrack of songs and a flashmob mode for up to eight Wii remotes …Dead Rising 2: Off The Recordplaces you back among the undead for more zombie massacres using amusing improvised weapons …Might &amp; Magic: Heroes VIrefreshes its strategic, turn-based combat for a a new outing …Cursed Crusadeis a hilariously poor, holy crusaders hack and slash 'em-up that you should do your best to avoid …FinallyFarming Simulator 2011: Platinum Editionnow features animal husbandry and an extended range of tractors along with the "Bergmann Shuttle 900K large silage wagon".
Remember when there were basically two kinds of car? No? Well, you had a few sports cars and coupes, and the odd Land Rover, but most cars were either estates or saloons. It was the same with coffee – it was either black or white. But then they started&nbsp;to bring in fancy new ones – espressos and cappuccinos, then lattes and macchibloodyatos. It was the same with cars. The hatchback was the equivalent of the&nbsp;espresso, the people carrier either&nbsp;a cappuccino or a grande cappuccino, depending on how big it was (so a&nbsp;Suzuki Cappuccino, a dwarf sports car, wasn't a cappuccino at all in my useful car-coffee genre comparison, confusingly). The supermini is probably a macchiato. And the SUV? A latte, clearly, duh!And now this: neither one thing nor the other, a little bit latte and a&nbsp;little bit macchiato and a little bit whatever you want it be. Ladies and gents, I give you the flat white of the automotive industry: the crossover.Based on Citroën's competent but dull C4 family hatchback, the DS4 has been sent to the gym, pumped up and possibly given a course of some kind of steroids. And while it may not have the striking looks of the Citroën's smaller DS3 hot hatch, it's still a lot tidier than its plainer, older sister. There are some nice little design touches, such as the hidden rear door handles, which make it look like a coupe. But one really annoying thing – that the rear&nbsp;windows don't go down. If a&nbsp;car has rear doors, you want the windows to go down, end of story. What were they thinking?To drive, it's fun – though again not as fun as the DS3. I've got the most powerful 200 HP petrol, which has oodles of oomph for a car of this one's ride and handling. You're probably better off with one of the more frugal diesel engines.Which brings me to the crucial question: what's the point of one of these crossovers? They might be higher off the ground, but the extra height doesn't mean they can go anywhere different, like off-road. They don't have more space inside. But you pay considerably more for them. The DS4 costs, on average, about £3,000 more than a regular C4. What's that all about, then?Well, it's about style and fashion, presence and poise. It's about looking out at the drive and feeling a little bit pleased with yourself. Hmmm, nice wheels. And this one is nice, about as handsome as crossovers get. Look at it . I like this car. I like a flat white, too.Citroën DS4 DSport 1.6 THP 200Price£23,650Top speed146mphAcceleration0-62 in 8.5 secondsAverage consumption44.1mpgCO2emissions149g/kmEco rating5Bound forStarbucks
The problems for BlackBerry's 70 million users around the world began mid-morning on Monday at Research In Motion's network operations centre, or NOC, off Bath Road in Slough.In the hours after the initial failure RIM experienced its worst-ever outage – lasting three days – which eventually affected almost every one of its users and forced its founderMike Lazaridis into an embarrassing public apology.Something broke down in the internal systems. It is still unclear quite what, though it has been blamed on a router (a piece of equipment which directs internet data in or across a network). RIM later called it a "core switch failure".Even a momentary lapse in the flow of RIM's data could be calamitous: the Guardian understands the Slough NOC servers normally deal with 8 gigabytes of data every second – equivalent to 16 hours of BBC iPlayer TV viewing. In a typical month, the unassuming two-storey building in Slough sees up to 20 petabytes, or 20m gigabytes, pass through it.Industry insiders and former RIM staff who have spoken to the Guardian say the company has been storing up problems for years through its approach to its system – and the outage was only to be expected."RIM grew in popularity too quickly, and got complacent over the iPhone," one former staffer with close knowledge of its network setup told the Guardian.He said that rather than rewrite its core networking software so that it could deal with the rapid boom in the smartphone market after 2005, RIM tried simply to increase the number of servers running the software, and spread demand among them: "The thinking was 'it would take too long to write this to work more efficiently, but if we put in 50 of them that should be fine.'"The former staffer added: "If RIM's claim that this was a 'core switch failure' is true, then this is exactly the same type of outage they had in 2005 when they had about 10 million users. Now they're got seven times that many."That outage in 2005 also affected all of the users; it was also blamed on a component of RIM's systems which "experienced a service interruption".The reason why the amount of data passing through Slough is so colossal is that it is one of just four NOCs maintained by RIM to route data between all its global users – and it serves almost everyone in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India. It also handles all of the GPRS "packets" – data sent worldwide via low-speed phone networks – to BlackBerry devices.There is another centre in Ontario, where RIM was founded, that serves the US, Canada and South America, and two more elsewhere that serve Asia and the Pacific regions.Normally, any issue at the Slough NOC would cause backup systems to kick in automatically, shifting the data transfer to a "failover" location in Egham, Surrey. But the Guardian understands that work on making Egham a full backup centre had not been completed – although it was meant to have been finished two months ago.When the data was switched over to the Egham centre, faults began to corrupt the giant database that stores details about messages, emails, and web data – and the devices they are being sent from and delivered to.However, it was not until late on Monday that RIM realised that was happening. As the problem mounted, more and more data piled up waiting to be delivered – but it was impossible to send it on because the database could not be trusted. The engineers were forced to start restoring the system from a previous version – a knife-edge process where every delay has possible knock-on effects.The repair teams also knew that the biggest danger to RIM would come if their storage systems failed and any data was lost – shifting its reputation from "unreliable" to "untrustable" and permanently damaging the brand, which has made itself indispensable to bankers and governments for its highly secure email.RIM is a victim of its own success, say former staff and industry insiders. It maintains its own private network, which in effect runs alongside the "public" internet and carries all its data. That means it is so secure that the BlackBerry is the only device approved for sensitive government work, because messages are encrypted between the sender's device, the RIM servers, and the destination device.In chasing the consumer market in recent years, RIM has gained millions of users who watch videos, each of which uses thousands of times more bandwidth than an email and is needlessly encrypted. RIM is understood to have been preparing to consult national internet carriers about running video content via the public internet. But then the outage happened.The real point of failure appears to be a fundamental piece of RIM's own software called the "Relay" which directs traffic within each of the four NOCs."I actually think the Relay has reached melting point and, err, melted," the former RIM staffer said.The company itself is remaining tight-lipped about the precise issue: asked whether the Relay failed, it said: "On Monday, RIM's infrastructure in Europe, Middle East, India and Africa experienced a core switch failure."All of our network switches have multiple redundancies and the system is designed to automatically failover to a redundant switch with no impact to users. In this case however, the failover did not function as expected, despite the fact that we regularly test our failover systems and processes in order to minimize this type of service impact on our customers."As a result, a large backlog of data was generated and it took an extended period of time to process that backlog even after systems were restored."Messages are still being delivered, but RIM users may need to wait until Monday for the gigantic backlog to clear.The revelation for firms which rely on BlackBerrys for their essential communications that all their data goes through one location – "a single point of failure" – will have some worried, suggested one industry source outside RIM. "If you're planning your disaster recovery, you want multiple backups," the source said. "This isn't that."For RIM, which is struggling to stay relevant in the smartphone market against the incursions of Apple's iPhone and Google's Android mobile software, as well as Finland's Nokia – which is ramping up a global advertising campaign costing hundreds of millions of pounds with the aid of its new software partner Microsoft – the problems will have to be addressed.One industry analyst recalls being called by a broadcast reporter desperately looking for someone who would say something positive about the Canadian company to "balance" their output about the problems ."I told them no," said the analyst. "I won't. I can't. There's nothing positive about it right now."
Thousands of people queued outside Apple stores around the world on Friday as the new iPhone – described as disappointing by the pundits, but apparently not by the public – went on sale. Outside the store in Covent Garden, London, some people had queued for days, with hundreds showing up and packing the square. The phone, unveiled last week, a day before the Apple boss Steve Jobs died, looks the same as the iPhone 4 but interest has centred on the inclusion of a "voice assistant" called Siri, which can interpret spoken commands.  Michael Jarrett, an early buyer, told the Guardian: "It's brilliant - it even understands Scottish. Even my gran doesn't understand Scottish."Apple says it had 1m orders for the device, more than the 600,000 for the iPhone 4. Industry figures show that Apple, which only entered the phone market in 2007, shipped more smartphones than any other company in the second quarter of the year, and is the biggest mobile phone company by revenue and profit worldwide.
Glitchhas been pitched as a "social MMO" – a massively multiplayer online game that's distinct from the social games played on Facebook and the more hardcore massively multiplayer online games like World of Warcraft. It's the work of Tiny Speck, a developer co-founded by Stewart Butterfield, who co-founded Flickr and then ran the photo-sharing site after it was acquired by Yahoo in 2005.Glitch launched out of beta in late September, promising gameplay focused more on creativity and collaboration than violence. Players can build houses, grow produce, play mini-games with one another, and acquire a range of skills, with messaging and other social networking features wrapped around that."We wanted to make something very specific that hadn't been made before," says Butterfield. "Because it's played in the browser, people superficially think of social games and expect a particular dynamic both in terms of how it makes money, and the experience of playing it. But people are playing live and synchronously with each other, and the monetisation mechanics aren't based around speeding up the gameplay in exchange for real-world currency."Glitch is no FarmVille, then, just as much as it is no World of Warcraft. Butterfield admits that while confounding people's expectations is a sign of the game's originality, it's also "a harder place to start from… it's something that's possible for people to love, but for other people to not like it at all".Another challenge: the people who would most enjoy an MMO based around creativity and collaboration aren't necessarily the people who are actively seeking out new MMOs to play. For that reason, Glitch's growth is likely to be more organic, driven by word of mouth as people are brought in by friends."Some people will come in and say 'This is shit! There's nothing to kill!', but for other people, those thematic tropes of men in tights fighting dragons don't appeal to them."Glitch is an interesting game because of its open-ended nature. Players are encouraged to explore the game world and bend its structure, although Butterfield says Tiny Speck was keen to ensure it's not just a giant sandbox – he thinks the structure of a game creates more possibility for social interactions."There are some things in the game that are quite rigid, like the economic system, but over time we'll remove the scaffolding we've provided to have those be player-run," he says. "People do genuinely unexpected things all the time, so we're designing systems resilient enough to not slip out of control."Another intriguing aspect of Glitch – and the reason it's being written about here on the Apps Blog – is the fact that from the start it has APIs for external developers to make use of, creating their own widgets and apps to interact with Glitch in new ways.Butterfield says his experience at Flickr was an important factor in having this from the start, adopting a much more web-like philosophy than most MMOs when it comes to exposing Glitch's innards for other developers to play with."What we don't want is for people to use the API to get unfair advantages for controlling their characters," he says. "But what we're seeing is people building alternative auction clients for items in the game, and also alternative clients for our Facebook-like news feed that shows players everything that's going on in the game."Mobile apps are also a part of the Glitch vision. Tiny Speck has already released an iPhone app calledGlitch HQ, which lets people see their profile and newsfeed activity, while teaching their character new skills away from the main game."We want people to take their characters outside the context of the game, like the Mii characters from the Wii were portable across games," says Butterfield. "We'd like to see people playing their character even in different games designed by different developers."He cites a proof-of-concept app that puts a Glitch character into a continuous running game, which sounds a lot like Canabalt. Butterfield admits that it's early days, but is hoping for some creative ideas from mobile developers working with the Glitch API.What about taking the mobile aspect further and producing a fully-fledged Glitch client for smartphones and/or tablets, though? That doesn't seem to be on the agenda for now. "When you're in the game you spend a lot of time talking to other people, and when you pop up a virtual keyboard [on a mobile device] you're left with a relatively small amount of screen real estate," he says. "There's so much going on, it's not feasible to design an interface that's going to work in that context."Even so, it's clear that if Glitch attracts a healthy community of developers using its API in interesting ways, the game will evolve beyond even Tiny Speck's expectations before its initial release."The game will be very different a year from now," says Butterfield. "We have a big list of things we want to do, but while we're doing that, players will be inventing and exploring, and developers too. This whole thing is one big improvisation!"
British developer Rocksteady scored something of a coup in 2009 withBatman: Arkham Asylum. Its brilliant realisation of the Dark Knight in the gaming medium came at critics and gamers from completely out of left field. Not only was it one of the year's best video games, it was easily the best Batman video game of all time.But, back in 2009, that latter compliment was seen as damning with faint praise.This is because, up until Batman: Arkham Asylum swooped in, nearly every single video game starring the caped crusader was utterly awful. What made Rocksteady's game sublime was that the developers exploited the core of Bob Kane's finest creation; the different facets of Batman's character informed the gameplay mechanics, which moved seamlessly from puzzle-solving, to agile platforming to brutal combat. All of it was packaged together with a fantastic story and presented with delightfully Gothic trimmings. Batman: Arkham Asylum was clearly the work of Batman fans who knew the terrain, and whose love for the character was evident.It's worth bearing all this in mind, because Batman: Arkham City, Rocksteady's follow-up has a higher standard to live up to. Given how perfectly formed the mechanics in Arkham Asylum were on its release – and remain to this day – Rocksteady could have easily got away with setting its game in a new environment, adding a new story and a few new characters – and then leaving everything else untouched. It's a testament to the studio's creativity, then, that instead it used the gameplay and structure of Arkham Asylum as a starting point and then built on these foundations.Arkham City's story begins several months after the events that took place in Arkham Asylum. It seems the power-that-be took offence to the Joker's shenanigans in the last game, and so, with a nod to John Carpenter's Escape From New York, they've turned several neighbourhoods in Gotham into a maximum-security prison to house Arkham's former inmates. Arkham City is run by an enigmatic figure called Hugo Strange who is brutal in his treatment of any criminals who try to escape, but seems wholly unconcerned with what goes on inside the prison walls. His hands-off approach in the actual running of Arkham City has led to a vicious turf war for control of its the streets, with most of the prisoners joining gangs that are run by Batman's most nefarious foes. Suspecting that Strange might not be playing with a full deck, Batman decides to head into the prison to check things out.Rocksteady have outdone themselves in the creation of Arkham City. The huge, sprawling super-prison of Gotham looks like something out of a dystopian nightmare. Gothic spires point accusingly at the night sky, gargoyles leer down on the alleys below and the city's landmarks and streets look dilapidated and broken.Furthermore, the whole environment is huge when compared to the area housed in Arkham Asylum, and players will want to explore every inch of it in their quest to end Strange's reign of terror.Players who picked up a copy of Arkham Asylum will find a lot of elements in Arkham City familiar. The lion's share of their activities will involve fistfights, following clue trails, solving puzzles, collecting trinkets and using Batman's agility to navigate the huge environment in the game. Detective Vision, which allows players to note the position of antagonists through walls, as well as switches, vents and trophy positions, makes a welcome return. Players also have access to the Dark Knight's collection of wonderful toys to aid them in their adventure – most of which are unlocked at the beginning of the game, setting Arkham City head-and-shoulders above every other superhero game sequel in existence right from the start. Players earn XP from fights, trinket collecting and puzzle solving, which allow them level up Batman's gadgets, his suit capabilities and his combat combos. Rocksteady have also added a fair few new abilities and gizmos to Batman's already impressive repertoire, which enrich the overall gaming experience.First of all, there have been a couple of tweaks made to the way in which Batman navigates his environment, which is handy given the size of it. Players can still use a grappling hook to zip up to rooftops and ledges and Batman's cape still allows them to glide gracefully over big distances. However, by pulling the right trigger in mid-glide and then pulling back on the right stick, players can extend Batman's gliding time, giving him the ability to stay airborne for longer. Also, once it's unlocked, players can use a grappling hook boost to allow Batman to overshoot the ledge he's rappelled onto, shooting him skyward.Alongside the boost, Batman has a host of new gadgets, including (among others) remote-controlled Batarangs, smoke pellets (to obscure his position during fights) and an item called the Remote Electrical Charge (REC). This last item allows Batman to activate generators in his environment, with which he can open doors or activate industrial magnets to strip foes of their weapons. Batman's combat has also received a polish; battering multiple opponents is a lot more fluid and fun than before, and finishing moves and takedowns look a lot more brutal.Of course, half of Batman's appeal is his rogue's gallery, and Rocksteady have tapped up quite a few of the caped crusader's villains to populate their game's plot. Two-Face and The Penguin are a couple of the antagonists who turn up in Arkham City, rubbing shoulders with The Joker and Harley Quinn, who make a return from Arkham Asylum. As the main story progresses, more of Batman's best-known nemeses begin to appear, although to reveal who they are and how they fit into the plot would be doing anyone reading this review a disservice. The game's story is one of its strongest assets, and the less players know going in, the more they will enjoy it.Alongside the rather lengthy main campaign, Arkham City is teaming with side missions, which players can dip in and out of at their leisure. It's also worth noting that once the main story's over, players are free to explore the city further, clearing up any side-missions they haven't finished yet. Once again, offering details about most of these side-missions will ruin the experience somewhat, as they involve their own little subplots and protagonists.However, at this point we feel we're on safe ground to reveal the villain involved in one of them, who also looms large over the landscape of Arkham City as a whole: the Riddler. It seems Edward Nigma took umbridge at the fact he was outsmarted by Batman in Arkham Asylum and so has gone to great lengths to defeat him here. To that end he's placed tons of trophies and riddles throughout Arkham City, marking them up with his question mark calling cards all over the city's skyline. If Batman collects enough of them, missions open up on the map, and Batman will have to head to these locations to save hostages that the Riddler has taken captiveCollecting a lot of these trophies doesn't just involve snaring them with the Bat Claw or pulling down sections of walls, as was the case in Arkham Asylum. A lot of them are protected by puzzles, which range from laughably easy to fiendishly cunning. Make no mistake, the Riddler sub-quest is far more challenging this time round, and as a result, infinitely more satisfying to play through. Once the main game's content has been completed, players can head into the game's challenge rooms – an expanded take on the same mode which featured in Arkham Asylum.Catwoman is also thrown into the mix as a playable character, provided the player unlocks her content. Batman's erstwhile feline love-interest has a series of quests to accomplish which run in tandem to the game's main campaign and she too, has a series of Riddler trophies to collect. She handles differently to Batman in combat; her attacks pack a little less punch, but her movement feels lighter and more fluid. Catwoman doesn't have Batman's array of gadgets, but she does carry a whip, a set of bolos and caltrops to hamper her attackers. She also has "Thief-Vision", her version of Detective Vision, which allows her to see hidden heat signatures. She's able to navigate the rooftops and spires of Gotham just as easily as Batman and is also available for the challenge rooms outside the main game.Rocksteady have done themselves proud with Batman: Arkham City. Rather than simply revisiting old ground, the British developer has upped the ante on its impressive last outing and delivered a game, which stands head and shoulders over its previous efforts. Despite facing stiffer competition than its predecessor, Batman: Arkham City is easily the best Batman video game of all time and while it may be too soon to call it the best game released all year, it's going to take something pretty special to top it.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
In the annals of bad weeks, considerwhat's happened in the past few days to mobile device maker Research in Motion, or RIM– a systemwide outage just as Apple started selling its latest iPhone. Insert the letter "r" in "outage", and you sum up the mood of its customers: outrage.For the better part of four days, RIM's BlackBerry customers were unable to use the service's top feature: email. Also shelved were text messaging and web browsing, and RIM's already faltering reputation absorbed a major blow.Many observers have pointed out that thetiming of the RIM outage was extremely unfortunatein a macro-marketing sense, too: this was the same week thatApple's latest iPhone hit the streets, with huge sales. And that led to an obvious question: have we witnessed a tipping point?It is entirely fair to wonder, given RIM's hapless handling of the outage, whether the already troubled company is sinking into irrelevance. My instinct tells me it is, with this latest issue only one more piece of evidence. Yet, even if so, Apple is hardly the only potential beneficiary – and Apple itself demonstrated this week,with online woes of its own, that it can't be viewed as a remotely reliable digital services company, either.Certainly, RIM's response was not the kind one expects from a company that provides what many companies call an essential service, or at least one that promises security and reliability. For days, and long after it became clear that the situation was ripening into a nightmare for RIM itself, not just its customers, the dual-headed creature running the company – co-CEOs Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie – were invisible.Not until Thursday did they emergefrom what looked like hiding to belatedly but abjectly apologise.CEOs can't fix the technical problems. They can, however, stand up immediately when things go wrong and visibly care – show they grasp the gravity of the situation and are taking charge to ensure that the team solves the problem. Yes, this is largely PR, but customers want to see it. And in RIM's case, this should have been even easier, since there are two of them. In reality, the company's unusual leadership structure is looking more and more inappropriate. A crisis demands crisp decisions, and RIM – facing a series of crises, some occurring in relative slow motion – has seemed to be moving more aimlessly than strategically in recent years.For its part, Apple enjoyed huge sales of the iPhone 4s. But its software rollouts – an updated mobile operating system and the new iCloud online storage and web applications service – were, to put it charitably, a mess. Apple's servers were swamped with users trying to download and install the iOS 5 update. This could not have been more predictable, but Apple, with more than $70bn in cash, apparently couldn't be bothered to provide the bandwidth it needed.Amore than trivial number of customers then had trouble installing the iOS update. I can only point to users' tales of woe, but there were more than I can remember for any equivalent kind of update. Even more problematic, Apple gave some customers absolute fits with their email as they tried to use the iCloud service. One of those customers,Dave Farber, a friend and highly influential figure in internet technical and policy circles, warned readers of his widely read mail list to be careful in moving to iCloud.In his own case, Farber said, his attempts to get it working "failed in a very nasty way". Sometimes, email vanished, then reappeared and then vanished again. He got messages saying his username and/or password was incorrect, plus other, more obscure error messages. Farber asked his mail list readers if he was alone in this. He was not, he said. If this kind of frustration can hit technical users like himself, he wondered, what about "the grandmother who believed Apple would get it right?" When, he asked, would Apple "learn to stress-test their products"?Damning stuff – and Apple, as usual, had little or nothing to tell its users other than to be patient.Apple acolytes will point out that RIM has had years to get things right, and that Apple's current problem is a launch-mode situation. But this wasn't the first time Apple had botched a rollout of this kind; its MobileMe service was, by almost all accounts, an even worse mess.It likely won't lose many fans in its consumer base; they are too loyal to be deterred by what they assume – most likely correctly – to be temporary problems. Corporate customers are, for sensible reasons, less forgiving of sloppy work by key vendors. If they now see RIM as a less-than-reliable supplier, as they should, Apple's week can't give them much alternative comfort.This leaves an opening for Microsoft, I suspect, because the one thing Microsoft does best is serve the enterprise market. RIM's BlackBerry rose to prominence, after all, because it worked so seamlessly – and securely – with Microsoft's Exchange email, contacts, calendar and scheduling features. Microsoft's latest Windows Phone operating system can leverage the company's deeply embedded presence in large corporations.No question, RIM ended the week with some bleeding wounds, severe ones, while Apple demonstrated again that it has a long way to go in online services beyond selling music, video and apps. They can take some comfort in the fact that the swiftly expanding smart-device mobile market is not a zero-sum game.Perhaps the wisest commentary this week was in a "hashtag", a label that users of social networks (especially Twitter) attach to posts to convey some larger meaning. It was "#FirstWorldProblems" – apt context, indeed.
We sent our henchmen around the world to track down the elusive iPhone 4S, and they found it. With the help of an iFixit user hailing from Germany, Markus Weiher, the iFixit team successfully dismantled Apple's latest creation. Not even Siri's incessant urgings and warnings were enough to deter our team from dissecting it!If you're one of the billions who's pre-ordered this phone and you want to peek inside, follow our teardown guide and see for yourself. All you need is a spudger, a Phillips #00 screwdriver, a Pentalobe screwdriver, and the will to explore. Leave your warranty at the door – you won't need it where you're going.Opening the 4S was no more (nor less) challenging than the iPhone 4. We're always pleased to find a limited amount of adhesive in our patients, and easily removable rear panels are always a plus. However, the same pesky proprietary screws are present, and it's never a joy to encounter fused (read: expensive to replace) displays. All things considered, the new iPhone isn't any easier or harder to repair than last year's model, so it gets the same 6 out of 10 repair score as the previous-gen iPhone 4.Teardown highlights:Pentalobe screws, again? We were hoping there would be something new to keep us out this year, but it seems that our familiar five-sided friends have not moved far from their home at the bottom of the iPhone 4S. A couple quick turns with our 5-Point Pentalobe screwdriver and out they come!Look closely and there it is: an extra .05 watt-hours in the battery over the iPhone 4! According to Apple, you get an extra hour of talk time than on 3G, but 100 hours less standby time. Go figure.In true iFixit fashion, we removed the EMI shields for your viewing pleasure. The logic board now bares its electronic soul:Apple A5 dual-core processor with 512 MB RAMToshiba THGVX1G7D2GLA08 16 GB NAND flash memoryQualcomm MDM6610 baseband chipsetQualcomm PM8028 power management ICQualcomm RTR8605 Multi-band/mode RF transceiverMurata SW SS1830010. We suspect that this package contains the Broadcom chip that reportedly provides Wi-Fi/Bluetooth connectivity, just like in some of the past teardowns.Skyworks 77464-20 load-insensitive power amplifier (LIPA) module developed for WCDMA applicationsAvago ACPM-7181 power amplifierTriQuint TQM9M9030 multi-mode quad-band power amplifier moduleTriQuint TQM66052 (possibly a PA-duplexer module)Mysterious Apple chip with markings 338S0987 B0FL1129 SGPOh hey, what's this? According to Chipworks, our German iPhone 4S has Samsung DDR2 RAM (K3P markings on the A5 processor), while our Australian iPhone 4S contains Elpida DDR2 RAM (B40 markings on the A5 processor)!We noted that the Verizon and AT&amp;T iPhone 4's display assemblies had different mounting tab locations. While most of the 4S has resembled the CDMA iPhone 4, the display assembly appears to be the same as the one found in the GSM version.It appears that Apple elected to go with the linear oscillating vibrator that we found in the Verizon iPhone 4, as opposed to the rotational electric motor with counterweight in the AT&amp;T version. This vibrator motor is quieter, softer, and all-around less annoying than its counter-weighted predecessor.We noticed several white and red liquid indicator strips placed throughout the phone. So don't let your friends pee on it! (No, seriously:http://bit.ly/iPhone_3GS_pee)Good news: not a single trace of any Cyberdyne Systems components were found… it seems for the time being our judgment day is not upon us.
Newspaper clippings of local success stories line the entrance toSilicon Valley's luckiest building. 165 University Avenue: the unremarkable Palo Alto office where Larry Page and Sergey Brin built Google – now the world's most important internet company – in 1999.It took only six months for Page and Brin to move on to bigger and better things; their team of 50 people quickly outgrew the corporate-looking office. But a litany of technology companies followed in their footsteps, includingPaypaland Milo.com.Today, it is UK music-recognition company Shazam that occupies the hallowed ground. About a dozen people sit at computers in the plainly decorated second-floor office when David Jones, a marketing executive at Shazam, shows me around. To fit another dozen in would be a struggle, he says."When we started looking [for a US office] we were pleased to discover that this suite was available," says Jones, who moved Shazam into the space last summer. "The landlord says it has good karma and he's probably right."The landlord, Saeed Amidi, is almost as famous as Google and Paypal in Palo Alto. A former carpet salesman turned opportunist investor, Amidi now insists on taking a small stake in the startups he leases to in the city, just in case they "do a Google".Amidi split the two-floor office into six suites after Google left, and now leases to three startups – Shazam, Eye IO and Yummly – and two private equity firms, Edward Jones Investments and Lanza Tech Ventures."It's the centre of Silicon Valley," says Jones. "It's in the middle of the peninsula so you can recruit engineering talent from as far south as San Jose all the way up to San Francisco. It's also the centre of the venture capital community, and close to Facebook, Apple and Google."Facebook is a 15-minute drive from the famous office, up through the leafy hills and on to Page Mill Road. At least, that's the corporate headquarters. Mark Zuckerberg and his herd of engineers run the operation from a graffiti-daubed office two miles away.Famously, Facebook has roughly one engineer for every 1 million users. And with the social network nearing 1bn users, it is time to move home. Zuckerberg will move Facebook on to a giant Menlo Park campus by the end of the year, less than 12 months after it pitched up in Page Mill.In the Valley, if you're not moving office, you're standing still. Twitter, too, is on the move. It has shared an uninspiring corporate block with AT&amp;T in the heart of downtown San Francisco for almost two years, when it had about 60 employees. Twitter now employs 650 people, with 200 added in the past six months. It will do the "Silicon Valley shuffle" next year, moving a brisk walk from Zynga."I remember when we were buying furniture from Craigslist," said Marcus Segal, the chief operating officer of game studio operations at Zynga. The fast-growing games publisher set up in a converted shopping mall only five weeks ago."We were so surprised by our own growth that we were just focused on keeping the lights on. Now we have community managers for different languages … I feel like we're just scratching the surface."Back at University Avenue, the good karma is palpable. Jones predicts that Shazam, already bursting at the seams of the famous office, will have outgrown the site within nine months. The hunt for the next Google has begun.
Google revenues rose by a recession-defying 7% in the UK in the last three months with online and mobile advertising generating $1.05bn.But growth in the UK was much slower than in the rest of the world where the online giant saw its revenue shoot up 33% to an eye-watering $10bn.The UK's slice of the action accounts for 11% of revenues compared with 12% in the third quarter of 2010.Google's results for the three months to 30 September saw its share price jump more than 6% to $594.53 in after-hours trading after a conference call with US analysts, impressed by the 26% rise in profits in thelast quarter results."When I look back at the last quarter, the word that springs to mind is, Gangbusters," said CEO Larry Page during a conference call with analysts."People are flocking to Google+ at an incredible rate and we are just getting started," he said, adding that billions of digital photos had already been shared at Google+.Social features highlighted at Google+ will be "baked in" to the other online offerings, he added.Page said Google's bid to take on Facebook was working and was now being used by more than 40m people, since it was launched to the public on 20 September. Although a good start, it is a long way from challenging Facebook which boasts 800 million users.Use of Chrome, Google's rival to Firefox and Internet Explorer is "through the roof", with more than 200 million people using the browser, said Page."Last quarter we shipped 'plus' and now we are going to ship the Google part," Page said."We are still at the very early stages of what technology can deliver. These tools we use online will look very different in five years' time and we are building these tools into Google-plus."Revenue was up 33% compared with the same quarter last year to $10bn with online advertising accounting for about a third of this.Mobile advertising on its Android deviceshas now hit £1.5bn with 190m Android handsets worldwide.Net income rose to $2.73bn on the wings of online advertising revenue that soared to $9.72bn in the third quarter, which ended on 30 September.
Here's some cause for celebration at the headquarters of BlackBerry maker Research In Motion, which suffered its worst-ever outage this week: if there had never been an iPhone, a third of the people who today bought Apple's new iPhone 4S at its Regent Street store in London say they would have bought a BlackBerry instead.But RIM can't rest easy: 52% of those queried said they would have bought an HTC, Samsung or Sony Ericsson phone – all of which run Google's Android operating system. Nokia, which is in a battle with Samsung for the title of the world's biggest seller of handsets, only won the approval of 11%.However the iPhone 4S definitely does exist – and data collected by ProtectYourBubble.com, an insurance company, shows that it is drawing in both new users (35% of those buying were new to Apple's platform) and people upgrading from the iPhone 4 (44%). It surveyed 100 people in the queue for the new phone on Friday morning.The most popular feature cited by people exiting the store with their new devices, and highlighted by Apple in its presentation of the 4S last week, is the 8MP camera, which makes it comparable with some of the best mobile phone cameras (although some such as the Nokia N8 boast a 12MP setting).The next most cited was the Siri voice assistant – although early users have discovered that much of its functionality, including maps and restaurants, is not yet working outside the US. Apple has not given any timetable to implement that.Half of those queueing said they were there because they had missed out on pre-orders through their mobile networks.And 45% think that the iPhone will go down as the late Steve Jobs's greatest invention – well ahead of the Macintosh (20%), iPod (18%) or iPad (11%).There's also clear worries about the safety of the phone: while 65% don't have their present phone insured, just over half (56%) say they will for their new one.Questions and answers from iPhone 4S buyers at Regent St, LondonBuying iPhone 4S for myself / someone elseMeAnother86%14%What are you upgrading from?Non-iPhoneiPhone originaliPhone 3GiPhone 3GSiPhone 435%0%8%13%44%How long has it been since upgrading?> 2 years> 18 mths> 1 year> 6 mths< 6 mthsAverage months19%7%43%14%17%15Which network are you on?O2VodafoneOrangeT-MobileThreeOther24%16%7%7%28%18%How good is your 3G reception?GoodTemperamentalBad46%29%25%What version are you going to buy?Black 16GBBlack 32GBBlack 64GBWhite 16GBWhite 32GBWhite 64GB20%5%16%29%10%20%What's the standout feature?Better battery life8 Mega pixel cameraVideo callingDual processorSiri voice assistantiCloud syncing7%37%3%15%34%4%Were you disappointed there wasn't a iPhone 5?YesNo57%43%Have you been tempted to buy an Android?YesNo44%56%Do you think Siri is a gimmick?YesNo33%67%If the iPhone didn't exist what would you buy?HTCSamsungNokiaBlackBerryWindowsSony Ericsson27%24%11%34%3%1%Why did you queue at Regent Street?to be theredie hard apple fanthought only available heremissed pre-ordersother18%11%7%53%11%Do you own a PC / MAC?Only PCOnly MacBothNone45%39%12%4%Age (average: 25)<1112-1718-2526-3940-5455+0%5%70%22%3%0%How much will you spend on gadgets in next year? (up to)£500£1000£1500£2000£2500+Average spend24%28%17%10%21%1347.5Do you have your phone(s) insured?YesNoNot sure35%65%0%Will you get your iPhone 4S insured?YesNoNot sure56%43%1%What do you think that Steve Jobs greatest invention will go down as?Mac computersiPodiTunesiPhoneiPad20%18%6%45%11%SexMaleFemale89%11%AppearanceMen with beards33%Here's the data:From Protectyourbubble
US tax authorities are investigating the strategies used by Google to cut its tax bill by about $1bn (£635m) a year by funnelling profits from the US and Europe to subsidiaries with low tax rates.The Internal Revenue Service has requested information from Google about its offshore deals following three acquisitionsincluding its purchase of YouTube in 2006,according to Bloomberg.Sources said it was "bringing more than typical scrutiny" to techniques known as the "Double Irish" and "Dutch Sandwich", which move revenues through units in Ireland, the Netherlands, and Bermuda.The complex revenue shuffle is legal and is used by countless US multi-nationals. However, the tactic cost the US treasury an estimated $90bn in tax revenues in 2008, according to Kimberly Clausing, an economics professor at Reed College.Over three years Google is estimated to have saved $3.1bn in tax revenues using a subsidiary located in Bermuda where the corporate tax rate is zero.A Google spokesperson said there was nothing unusual about the audit.  "We are considered a large case company, which means we are under a continuous audit by the IRS so of course they would be reviewing our treatment of all acquisitions."In 2009, the most recent year for which records are available, the Bermuda subsidiary collected €4.34bn (£3.9bn) in royalties from a Google unit in the Netherlands, according to a Dutch corporate filing.The search engine giant isusing Ireland as a conduit for European revenuesbut in turn the Irish subsidiary is being charged royalties for its intellectual property – use of the brand and technology such as Google's algorithms.The 2009 Google Ireland Ltd accountsshow the company turned over €7.9bn in Europe for the year ending 2009 and a profit of just €45m after "administrative expenses" of €5.467bn were stripped out.Administrative expenses largely refer to royalties (or a licence fee) Google pays its Bermuda HQ for the right to operate.Notes to the accounts show "administrative expenses" rose significantly between 2008 and 2009 – by €794m – because of increases in headcount, sales and marketing and the "royalties paid as a result of increases in recorded turnover".The IRS has already approved a major part of Google's strategy. In 2006, the agency signed off on a 2003 intracompany transaction that moved foreign rights to its search technology to an Irish subsidiary managed in Bermuda called Google Ireland Holdings.That deal – known as a "buy in" in tax parlance – meant subsequent profit overseas based on those copyrights has been attributed to foreign subsidiaries rather than to Google in the US where the technology was developed.A Google spokesperson told the Guardian: "We have an obligation to our shareholders to set up a tax-efficient structure, and our present structure is compliant with the tax rules in all the countries where we operate. We make a very substantial contribution to local and national taxation and provide employment for over a thousand people in the UK. We also generate significant revenues for other companies, and last year gave more than $6bn to our AdSense publisher partners, including newspapers and broadcasters across the world."
Microsoft loves developers, afact espoused by Steve Ballmer, CEO of Microsoft andalleged world chair-throwing champion. (He's always said he never entered the contest, and so has declined the trophy. Pity.) Traditionally that love has been felt most keenly in the various programmes on offer to developers to get software for free or far more cheaply than buying of the shelf. (For background, I've often found that I've worked with people who could save some serious money by being on the correct programme.)Here's a rundown to their current offerings.This list isn't intended to be complete - it's not a catalogue, it's designed to give you a feel of how the various programmes work and how much they cost. Please bear in mind that you need to do your own research before embarking on any of these programmes.DreamSparkThree of the programmes that we're going to look at in this article end with the name "Spark". This appears to be Microsoft's preferred name for programmes designed to "spark" interest in the developer community. Cute.DreamSparkis the programme offered to students, and I won't spend too much time on it as most of you will be more interested in the commercial stuff. But it's a good programme - for free you can get Visual Studio 2010 Professional, Visual Studio 2008 Professional, Expression Studio 4, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2003 and SQL Server 2008 Developer. The inclusion of older versions of VS and Windows Server is a nice touch - it implies an enterprising young student can earn some extra beer money and experience doing maintenance on existing apps.I'm really glad to see the VS versions being the full-on professional versions here too. This means that students have access to, particularly, the unit testing tools in the pro versions. This to me is a critically important good habit for software engineering autodidacts, so kudos to Microsoft for this.The programme is open to "accredited schools" or "accredited educational institutions" around the world, so anyone in full-time education should be good to go.Microsoft Partner NetworkThe Microsoft Partner Network is the main way to form a commercial relationship with Microsoft, and your payback for forming said commercial relationship is reduced cost on licenses.Microsoft tinker with this programme a lot, and the current breakdown of the structure and benefits can be found fromhere-  although frankly the entire programme is pretty opaque. There are three ways that you can participate• join a community (which we won't cover - this gets you access to sales support materials and not licenses)• purchase a subscription (which we'll cover in a moment)• obtain "silver competencies" or "gold competencies".It's worth stressing that the Partner Network programmes are not just about getting software for free - there are other resources included that are designed to help the member shift more Microsoft licenses. Also, this guide is not intended to be a definitive view to how you navigate the Partner Network - it is really,reallycomplicated - but we should be able to help you grok most of it.The competencies are essentially your way of demonstrating to Microsoft that you have the chops to do one or more activities off of a prescribed list. The way you demonstrate capability is a combination of having qualified people on staff, getting customer references, passing tests and so on. From thelist of available competencies, there are those related to deployment of Microsoft products (e.g. "Server", "Hosting" and "Application Integration") and those slanted towards development (e.g. "ISV" and "Software Development"). However analysis of the whole list is out of scope of for this article.A silver competency earns you 25 internal use licenses, whereas a gold competency earns you 100 internal use licenses. (This simplifies the issue, but think 25 licenses to Windows 7, 25 Exchange CALs, etc. You don't get 25 Exchange Server licenses) Most Microsoft products are covered (you can find the listhere, and a more helpful calculatorhere), but "internal use" is a key operator. Loosely it means that you cannot resell them, nor can you use them for direct revenue-generating activities, commercial purposes, personal purposes or customer training.An important wrinkle is that you can only use the latest version, so you cannot run Windows XP on this programme - you'd have to upgrade to Windows 7. This makes sense: Microsoft wants you to be out there flogging the latest and greatest.These licenses also allow you to gain access to MSDN ("Microsoft Developer Network"), which we'll come on to, but MSDN is where all of the developer tools live. You get five MSDN subscriptions on the silver level, and ten on the gold. However, weirdly, with silver and gold competencies you get MSDN subscriptions that you cannot use for direct revenue generating activities (examples they give include developing bespoke software for a fee, or customisation as part of deployment), but you can use them to develop a commercial application which partnerssell- emphasis on "sell" is mine, it's unclear how this works if you're giving stuff away free.(You should note that you can "top up" the amount of licenses you get by getting more competencies. Refer to the calculator linked above for more information on this.)To obtain all this, you'll need to fund getting your staff trained up and qualified (which depending on how you do it will either be cheap or expensive - cheap if self-taught, expensive if you punt them out on courses) and then find around £1,200+VAT for the silver and £2,400+VAT for the gold.All in all, the silver and gold competencies in the Partner Network give you most of the software needed to run a decent sized IT solutions business, and all of the software needed depending on how you actually make money from the software that you write. You also get advisory hours (i.e. time with a consultant), and support tickets, both of which can be incredibly helpful.Microsoft Action Pack and Microsoft Action Pack Development and DesignAllied to the Partner Network silver and gold competency levels are the Microsoft Action Pack Subscription ("MAPS") and Microsoft Action Pack Subscription Development and Design ("MAPSD+D"). Back in the day when I first entered into a Microsoft partner arrangement, the partner programme was structured far more like the MAPS and MAPSD+D programmes. What these do is get you licenses for cash without the heavy involvement of the Partner Network via the demonstration of competency through obtaining "competencies". It should be said that with both of these offer elements of the support and sales and marketing help as the full programme - again, Microsoft's payback in this is that you will shift more licenses.Both subscriptions have the same rules about to internal use - i.e. no reselling, only for training employees not customers and developing and testing applications. (Although, weirdly, they also include the rule about not allowing custom software development.) With MAPS, you get licenses to cover ten users of Windows, Office, Exchange, SQL Server and others (seehere). With MAPSD+D you also get three licenses of Visual Studio 2010 Professional and Expression Studio 4 Web Professional via a special MSDN level (again, we'll come onto MSDN shortly). An important wrinkle is, like the silver and gold competency benefits, you have to be running the latest and greatest.The cost of the programmes is £259+VAT for MAPS and £299+VAT for MAPSD+D. You can pay a little extra to get physical media. Unless you do something that falls under the banner of "custom solution development" (in which case you can't use the MSDN license), MAPSD+D seems like a good deal for the small software development shop, providing you're not doing bespoke development.MSDNWe've spoken about MSDN, so what is it?MSDN is the granddaddy of Microsoft developer programmes. It's basically "everything". Would you like Windows 3.1? That is fine. Access 2.0? Dyanamics AX? MS-DOS? MapPoint 2004? BizTalk 2010? There's 766 line items on the a spreadsheet that you can downloadhere- although, remember, I said "spreadsheet".There are eight current MSDN levels. All of them have that lovely, labourious naming that we have come to love from Microsoft. You haveVisual Studio Ultimate with MSDN,Visual Studio Premium with MSDN,Visual Studio Professional with MSDN,Visual Studio Test Professional with MSDN,Visual Studio Professional with MSDN Embedded,MSDN Operating Systems,MSDN Action PackandMSDN Essentials.MSDN Essentialsis the level that you get when you buy Visual Studio at retail (see the blog entryhere), and so we'll ignore that.MSDN Action Packis the version you get with the Partner Network MAPSD+D subscription that we covered earlier. Importantly with the full silver and gold competency levels on the full Partner Network, you get the Visual Studio Premium with MSDN licenses (five on silver, ten on gold).The Ultimate and Premium levels do have some important differences in the server licenses in that on the Professional level you only get the OSes and SQL Server. On the other two you get the more esoteric (read "pricey") products, e.g. BizTalk, all of the Dynamics range, Exchange, SharePoint, etc. Remember though, if you're complicated enough to have the upper MSDN levels, you probably already have a Partner Network subscription or silver/gold competency and have the internal use licenses from those.The three top MSDN levels vary based on whether they areUltimate,PremiumorProfessionalversions of Visual Studio. (There are some differences in the software that you get as part of the core subscription, although the core OS and server stuff you are likely to need is there.) I'll leave the "Test Professional" edition for a moment.The version of Visual Studio that I use on a daily basis is Professional, and I must admit I've never hankered after anything in the other versions. The key differences are that in Premium and Ultimate have more debugging and profiling tools. Professional has standard unit testing, whereas Premium includes a few more tools and Ultimate has a whole raft of testing and profiling tools. Next, Premium and Ultimate both have a collection of (frankly irrelevant) database tools. On the modelling side, with Ultimate you get all of that but not in Professional and Premium (and if you're into modelling, why would you not use a stand-alone tool?). Ultimate also gives you something called "Lab Management". In summary, it's not obvious what you get with Ultimate or Premium that's so amazing, or that certainly can't be filled with, as alluded to, third-party tools.This gives us three remaining MSDN variants to look at.Visual Studio Test Professionalis designed for testers who are "embedded" into the test cycle. Essentially it gives you access to the testing tools that are part of the application lifecycle management ("ALM") bits of Team Foundation Server ("TFS"). We haven't spoken much about TFS here but there's a shared toolset for managing the quality aspect of development. The idea is that developers use Visual Studio Ultimate and testers use Visual Studio Test Professional, both feed data into a central TFS box and, voila, quality ensues. (Look out for future Guardian Tech articles on TFS and ALM.)Visual Studio Professional with MSDN Embeddedvaries the software as part of the MSDN licensing for those specialising in embedded systems. Like Test Professional, if you're in this area you're pretty specialised. The final MSDN offering - MSDN Operating Systems is designed to give you roughly the same licenses as Professional but without Visual Studio.Confused yet? You probably are. This arrangement frankly is not pretty.Here is some rough street pricing:• Visual Studio 2010 Ultimate with MSDN - around £8,500+VAT• Visual Studio 2010 Premium with MSDN - around £3,300+VAT• Visual Studio 2010 Professional with MSDN - around £1,000+VAT• Visual Studio 2010 Test Professional with MSDN - around £1,650+VAT• Visual Studio 2010 Professional with MSDN Embedded - around £900+VAT• MSDN Operating Systems - around £390+VATThose are the first year prices. Renewals are roughly 50% of those prices per annum.For comparison, Visual Studio 2010 Professional without MSDN is around £500+VAT and this doesn't have a yearly renewal as there is no MSDN component.Another thing on the MSDN side is that you also get some Azure usage, details of which can be foundherealthough, as we're about to see, the benefits are paltry.BizSparkBizSparkis a programme to encourage startup businesses to build their solutions on the Microsoft stack. I say "encourage" - BizSpark is firmly from the "your first hit is free" school of marketing. It would be non-trivial to switch away from the Microsoft stack once your startup was up and running.The eligibility requirements it that you have to be developing software (obviously), that you're privately held, less than three years old and making less than US$1m in annual revenue.To short circuit the discussion, BizSpark helpfully says that you get access tomostof the licences available in Visual Studio Ultimate with MSDN, although confusingly they they go on to explicitly state that itisVisual Studio Ultimate that you get. Seethis page.There is no (clearly) given limit to the number of users on you can have on the programme, presumably because the eligibility requirements act as a natural ceiling. (Although in the dotcom days, I can think of many companies with a lot of developers and way less than US$1m in revenue.) Once your membership is up, you "graduate" from the programme and buy your licenses at a discount. A caveat laden discount - follow the single asterisk onthis page.Where BizSpark gets more interesting is on the production server licensing. Remember, with the other programmes thus far you cannot use the licenses in production environments - they are internal use only. You can use the licenses providing you are not just exposing out core functionality (e.g. reselling SQL Server) and that you're not just repackaging someone else's application.BizSpark's preference is that your stack comprises Window Server, SQL Server at a basic level. If you're feeling fruity, they'd like you to roll in BizTalk and/or SharePoint and/or Dynamics CRM.You can either hosting yourself or using a BizSpark partner, but I'm unsure why you would want to use a partner. A strong suggestion from the site is that you use the Azure benefit that comes with the MSDN subscriptions. This gives you two virtual servers a month that have ~1.6GHz CPUs, 1.75GB of RAM and 15GB of storage. This is actually pretty lame - that's not much horsepower for running a decent sized app on the Microsoft stack. (In fact, on the graduation page above the caveat implies that they expect people to be running three front-end boxes and one SQL boxes. At the very least, you're looking at five or six times the free Azure limit.)For comparison of cost, were you to use the Rackspace Cloud, according to theircost calculator, you'd be looking at around £200 for the same Azure service offering, albeit with SQL Server 2008 R2 Web edition rather than Stadnard. (Although other virtual private server ["VPS"] providers come in cheaper, Azure and Rackspace Cloud are roughly the same in terms of build. It's also worth noting that Rackspace do their ownstartup program.)So, if you're a startup with three developers running over the full three year period, the headline saving by using BizSpark is £125,000 - although I would say that price is inflated. If you were doing this yourself, it's more likely you would use Professional as opposed to Ultimate and go with MAPSD+D, therefore the real cost/saving of BizSpark is around £8,000. Still, none too shabby for a free programme.WebsiteSparkWebsiteSparkis the final programme that we'll look at and it's designed to "professional Web developers and designers". Like BizSpark, it's a three year program and also like BizSpark, there's no entry cost.The eligibility requirements are that you must have less than ten employees and be a professional services firm specialising in providing Web development and design. You can also be a "one man band". Interestingly, the requirements are missing any requirement in terms of length of time trading, being of private ownership or having a ceiling on revenue unlike BizSpark.As part of the programme you get three licences of Visual Studio 2010 Professional, one license of Expression Studio and two of Expression Web. In development, you can have up to three Window Web Server 2008 instances and three SQL Server 2008 Web instances. Production wise, you can run up to four processors running Windows Web Server 2008 and SQL Server 2008 Web Edition. Virtual or physical boxes are supported.Competing platformsIt's been a while since I sat down and really thought about the cost of developing solutions on Microsoft - throughout my career it's been mainly what I've done - but it's clear that the open source route is not only cheaper, but far less complicated and way less risky. (Get one subtle rule of these programmes wrong and you can be into a big cash flow problem.) How much does it cost to run a box with Ubuntu, Apache, MySQL and PHP? The cost per developer is not going to run you nearly £9k a seat for the first year, £4.5k per seat thereafter and, much as I love Microsoft, there's a huge price differential there. This is definitely going to be an interesting decade or so for Microsoft.ConclusionIn summary, the easiest way to get developer tools from Microsoft is tobe a student. Anyone in a startup would be mad not to look at BizSpark - ignoring that is just leaving money on the table. If you're a one-man-band or a small web design shop, WebsiteSpark looks pretty good. Assuming you're not any of those things, it comes down to how big a shop you are. If you're pretty big already, or have aspirations, playing nicely with the Microsoft Partner Network competency track would make sense. If you're not, MAPSD+D is looking good, but watch the rule about "direct revenue generation".OK - now enjoy...Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
A selection of apps for you today:The Walking DeadThe most shocking thing about TV show The Walking Dead remains for us the fact that it's Egg from This Life doing the zombie-slaying. Anyway, the comic that spawned the TV series has a new iPad app, offering back issues and a subscription model to get new editions as they come out.iPadKORG iKaossilatorElectronic music instrument company KORG has a new iPhone app, based on its handheld Kaossilator synthesizer. "Play sounds by simply stroking, tapping, or rubbing the screen with your finger," promises the App Store listing.iPhoneThe Thing: FlamethrowerAugmented reality startup Metaio has worked with Universal Pictures on an AR app to promote the new The Thing film. It sees you spinning around flaming virtual aliens that appear in the real world around you. There's also a clever Infect Yourself feature to turn yourself into an alien, using Metaio's facial recognition tech.iPhone / AndroidCasper Scare SchoolKid-apps developer Mindshapes' latest iOS app is also its first branded title, based on friendly ghost Casper. Designed to help children develop their short-term memory, it offers a selection of suitably spooky outfits to dress Casper in, while memorising the different items.iPhone / iPadZombie LifeMobile social game Zombie Farm has been a huge hit on the App Store, but now developer The Playforge has a sequel. If its predecessor was the undead FarmVille, this is much more of an undead Sims, with your zombie interacting with citizens, trying on outfits and even getting a job.iPhoneParenting's Birthday Party PlaytimeAnother app from a creative kid-apps developer here: Swedish outfit Toca Boca. Its latest is a follow-up to Toca's Tea Party, with a birthday theme. Your child chooses a birthday party theme, then serves virtual cake and drinks, while blowing out candles.iPhone / iPadRebtelVoice-over-IP company Rebtel has relaunched its iPhone app with a new feature allowing users to switch between local minutes or Wi-Fi/3G when connecting their calls. That means the ability to switch to an operator-powered voice call if the data network isn't up to scratch.iPhoneSleevefacerRemember the 'Sleevefacing' trend? It involved holding up a vinyl album cover with a face on in front of your own face, then getting someone to take a photo. Online hilarity duly ensued. Now there's an app for that, digging into album covers from your iPhone's music library and beyond, taking the snaps and then sharing them on social networks.iPhoneAdvenaKorean mobile games publisher Gamevil is angling for the hearts of traditional RPG fans with its latest iPhone title. It puts you in charge of a party of characters, exploring a sprawling game world, while also getting online for player-v-player battles.iPhoneIMDb Buzz - Entertainment NewsThe Internet Movies Database (IMDb) has launched its second iPhone app, offering news about celebrities, films, TV shows and other topics. The app aggregates stories from a range of sources based on its user's interests, while offering social sharing features too.iPhoneDebenhamsUK retailer Debenhams has launched a BlackBerry app, linking people to its mobile website to browse products, watch videos and check store opening hours.BlackBerryCoca-Cola Santa's HelperYes, it's that time of year again, when stores and brands compete to be the most crazily-early with their build-up to Christmas. Coca-Cola has made a strong showing in that competition this year with a casual iOS game involving flinging presents down chimneys.iPhone / iPadLanyrdAnother day, another buzzy mobile app with a vowel missing. Lanyrd is aiming at a business audience, helping people see which conferences and events their Twitter contacts are attending, while also offering speaker and session directories. We get the idea of location-enabled business social networking apps. We just wonder whether anyone other than LinkedIn has a real shot at popularising it.iPhoneTalkapellaTalkapella is the latest title from music app developer Khush, which previously released Songify and LaDiDa. This time round, the aim is to turn your spoken words into four-part harmonies, stretching out vowels to "make you croon".iPhone
A burst of78links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDell World: Dell gearing up to launch Windows 8 devices as Android disappoints"Dell is throwing its weight firmly behind the Windows 8 tablet platform in a bid to challenge the dominance of the Apple iPad 2.Michael Dell, founder and chief executive of Dell, appeared to play down Android in favour of Windows and hinted there would be a number of Microsoft-based products announced soon."'We are very aligned with Microsoft around Windows 8. You'll hear more about Windows 8 from us and see a wide range of products released,' Dell told journalists during a Q&A; at Dell World 2011 in Texas."That's the Dell which is pulling back from Windows Phone and focussing on Android smartphones.Pegatron lands higher-than-expected iPhone 4S orders &gt;&gt; Digitimes"Pegatron Technology has landed orders for 15m units of the iPhone 4S from Apple with shipments reaching 2-2.5m units in the fourth quarter of 2011, the Chinese-language Commercial Times has cited sources as saying. Earlier reports indicated that the volume of Pegatron's iPhone 4S orders would be only 10m units."Pegatron has also strengthened its deployment for metal chassis, aiming to also land orders for the iPad 3 from Apple as well as ultrabook orders from branded notebook vendors, said the paper, adding that Pegatron has already secured ultrabook orders from Asustek Computer and Lenovo."So basically Apple seems to be upping its iPhone 4S orders by 50%. That's some disappointment.The Science Code Manifesto"Software is a cornerstone of science. Without software, twenty-first century science would be impossible. Without better software, science cannot progress."But the culture and institutions of science have not yet adjusted to this reality. We need to reform them to address this challenge, by adopting these five principles:...."They're good ones.Windows 7 overtakes XP to become the most widely used OS &gt;&gt; WinRumors"Windows 7 now accounts for 40.21% of all global desktop operating system usage across the world. Windows XP usage slipped to 38.64% in the month of October according to StatCounter. The drop in XP usage has been consistent since Windows 7′s launch but October marks the first time that Windows 7 has passed Windows XP usage, an important milestone for Microsoft after two years of Windows 7 sales."Breathes sigh of relief. Windows 7 is simply far more secure in so many ways; everyone benefits from there being fewer XP installations. Now what will it take to get IE6 replaced, especailly in western governments?iOS 5… Oh what a night! &gt;&gt; PlusNet blogA huge blast of traffic as people stopped using iPlayer and started downloading iOS5 and - it seems - downloaded some music. PlusNet added about 2Gbps of capacity to its network; it just about managed to stay inside capacity.iOS5 reviewed: Notifications, iMessages, and iCloud, oh my! &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaVery impressive (and long; make some coffee) review. Notifications looks like it has leapfrogged Android by some distance.The last time I saw Steve Jobs &gt;&gt; pluckytree"Steve was heading towards a car parked next to the curb with its door open, waiting for him. The car was idling. A family was standing near the Apple sign outside the building, a common site for people to take photos on their pilgrimages to Apple."The father turned to Steve as he passed close by and asked, 'Excuse me, sir, would you mind taking our photo?'"Now read on.Microsoft confirms Zune HD is dead &gt;&gt; This is my next..."After a flurry of back and forth reports concerning the life of the Zune HD, WMPoweruser is now reporting that Microsoft has indeed pulled the plug on its Zune hardware, and will instead focus its efforts moving forward on the software and services side of the equation."J Allard always imagined the Zune as a cloud device. Now more cloud than device, however.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Google's chief executive Larry Page says that there are now than 190m Android devices in use, and that mobile advertising through it is on course to generate $2.5bn (£1.5bn) annually.Speaking at the company's earnings results, Page said: "The growth of Android is mind-boggling too. Over 190m devices have now been activated globally. I'm super-excited about the soon-to-be released new version of Android called Ice Cream Sandwich, that's right, Ice Cream Sandwich. You won't believe what we manage to get done in this release."He added: "We're also seeing a huge positive revenue impact from mobile, we just grown 2.5 times in the last 12 months, to a run rate of over $2.5bn. Generally, I found that high-usage products will make a lot of money over time for well-managed technology companies, and that's why it's so important to run these businesses for the long term."However, Page did not reveal exactly which mobile platforms contribute to Google's mobile revenue. While Android is significant in sheer numbers, a Google executive revealed in congressional testimony in September that two-thirds of mobile search comes from mobile devices running Apple's iOS software.The revenue from mobile is, so far, small compared with Google's overall revenues, which over the past four quarters have totalled $35.7bn. That would make mobile equivalent to about 7% of Google's annual revenues if its revenue were spread over the entire year – though Page was apparently implying that the past quarter's performance would make the income equivalent to that amount if reflected back over the year, rather than that it has so far taken in that amount.Nikesh Arora, Google's chief business officer, said that in mobile advertising, "Our revenue growth continues to accelerate even in mobile, driven primarily by mobile search. This growth obviously is driven both by the underlying expansion of Android devices and of tablets, as well as stellar performance of our sales teams who are working closely with our customers to help them craft compelling mobile advertising solutions."He added: "Many advertisers have greatly increased the size and frequency of their mobile campaigns. Mobile is becoming a must-have. This includes clients like InterContinental Hotels Group, which spans pretty much across our entire portfolio of properties including Mobile search, Mobile GDN and AdMob."
Yes, Friday at last!
Google defied the global economic slowdown last night by posting a 26% rise in net profits for the last quarter.The internet search engine company also claimed to be making strides in its battle with Facebook, announcing that more than 40 million users have joined Google+, its social network.Google beat Wall Street expectations by reporting net income of $2.73bn (£1.73bn) for the three months to 30 September, from $2.17bn a year ago. Net revenue, excluding payments to partner websites, surged by 37% to $7.51bn.Shares in the company jumped by 6% in after-hours trading, with Needham analyst Kerry Rice calling the results "nothing short of phenomenal".Google continued to expand, hiring 2,585 employees in the quarter. That takes its total headcount to 31,353.Analysts had feared Google's results would be marred by a sharp rise in costs, as it strives to maintain its strong position in search and develop new services. Instead, expenses came in below forecast."A lot of people were expecting spending to be out of control, but they had good control," Herman Leung, an analyst with Susquehanna Financial Group, told Reuters.Larry Page, Google's chief executive, declared that "we had a great quarter", and highlighted the progress made with Google+."People are flocking into Google+ at an incredible rate and we are just getting started," Page said.The company only opened Google+ to the general public at the end of September. Three months ago, 10 million users were using it while it wasstill being trialled. It still has some way to go to catch Facebook's 800 million users.Google said that the number of "paid clicks" – when users click on adverts served by Google – rose by 28%. The "cost per click" was 5% higher than a year ago.Colin Gillis, analyst at BGC Partners, said the figures showed that the digital economy was still strong: "Google is capturing all the economics from this and we are moving into the sweet spot when investors want to own Google," he added. Its shares had fallen by 13% since February, before its latest results were released.Mike Hickey, analyst at National Alliance Capital Markets, said that "Overall, the tone of the release was positive and we're not seeing any indication of weakness in advertising in the next quarter."
The American computer scientist Dennis Ritchie, who has died aged 70 after suffering from cancer and heart disease, was one of the co-inventors of the Unix operating system and the C programming language. Unix and C provided the infrastructure software and tools that created much of&nbsp;today's computing environment – from the internet to smartphones – and so have played a central part in shaping the modern world.The origins of Unix go back to the 1960s, long before the microchip and personal computers had been invented. The nearest thing to personal computing was the computer utility, a large mainframe machine that was used simultaneously, and at great expense, by a couple of dozen users sitting at typewriter terminals.By the middle of the decade, the utility appeared to provide the way ahead, and a consortium of&nbsp;General Electric,Bell Labsand theMassachusetts Institute of Technology(MIT) embarked on a project called Multics (Multiplexed Information and Computing Service). Multics would be the world's largest computer utility, supporting several hundred simultaneous users. Bell Labs was responsible for the operating software.Ritchie joined the programming division of Bell Labs in 1967. His father, Alistair, had spent a long career there and had co-authored an influential technical book, The Design of Switching Circuits (1951). Dennis was born to Alistair and and his wife, Jean, in the New York suburb of Bronxville and grew up in New Jersey, where Bell Labs had its Murray Hill site. He studied physics and applied maths for a bachelor's degree (1963) and computer science for a PhD (1968) at Harvard University.Multics was in crisis when he arrived at the research organisation. Indeed, many big software projects were in&nbsp;crisis – people were just beginning to&nbsp;learn that writing large programs was&nbsp;horrendously difficult and costly. In&nbsp;1969, after four years of development, Bell Labs pulled out of the project.Ritchie and another lead programmer on Multics, Ken Thompson, were left somewhat bereft by the project's demise. Multics had promise, but the operating system was too complex to&nbsp;build. This led them to a rethink. They would build a simpler, smaller system that they would call Unix – the name was "a kind of treacherous pun on&nbsp;Multics", Ritchie once explained.The idea was not immediately appreciated by their managers, and they had to cast around for an obsolete computer on which to develop Unix. The machine had just 16 kilobytes of memory, and this alone was an encouragement to keep things simple. If Multics was the victim of baroque software architecture, then Unix would be pure Bauhaus.Unix was designed over a few months in 1969, and a prototype was running early in 1970. Their colleagues remained unconvinced. However, by offering to write some text-processing software, Ritchie and Thompson managed to persuade the Bell Labs patent department to acquire a full-size computer and run Unix on it.They decided to rewrite the operating system entirely for the new machine. The first version of Unix had been written in the computers' native machine code, which was difficult and slow. For the next version, Ritchie invented a language called C, which bridged the gap between machine code and programming languages such as Fortran and Cobol.C also had an interesting ancestry. The progenitor was jointly designed at Cambridge and London universities in 1964 and known as CPL (Combined Programming Language). CPL never survived, but one of the development team, Martin Richards, became a visitor at MIT. There he designed a simpler version of the language for systems implementation, BCPL (Basic CPL).Thompson and Ritchie decided to use BCPL to write Unix. To do so they squeezed it into 8 kilobytes and renamed it B. Finally, a new and improved version was developed and named C, which, Ritchie mused, "left open the question whether the name represented a progression through the alphabet or through the letters BCPL". This made writing software immeasurably easier and it also made software portable – so&nbsp;that a program written in C could run on any machine. The new version of&nbsp;Unix was completed in 1973, and since it was written in C, it, too, was portable.Because Bell Labs's parent, AT&amp;T, was a regulated telephone monopoly, it&nbsp;was prohibited from competing in&nbsp;the&nbsp;computer industry, and so had no pecuniary interest in Unix. This allowed Ritchie and Thompson to distribute Unix free of charge to universities and&nbsp;research institutions, which loved its clean, economical design.Universities began to train their students in Unix and C, and when they graduated they took the culture into industry, where it blossomed. In&nbsp;1978 Ritchie and a colleague, Brian Kernighan, wrote a textbook, The C Programming Language, which became a bestselling primer for the next 15 years. Despite the title, it was equally a book about programming style, and it shaped programming practices worldwide.Ritchie and Thompson got early recognition for their work when they received the 1983 Turing award of the Association of Computing Machinery, often dubbed the Nobel prize of computing. But the Unix story was just beginning. The Advanced Projects Research Agency of the US department of defence adopted Unix for the network research that eventually created the internet, and it remains the software glue that binds everything together.Steve Jobswas a Unix devotee. When he was ousted from Apple Computer in 1985, he used Unix as the basis for his NeXT workstation. After his return to&nbsp;Apple 10 years later, he brought Unix with him and it became the foundation for all of Apple's current products.Unix is also at the heart of today's open-source software movement. In the 1980s, following deregulation, AT&amp;T began to assert its intellectual property rights in Unix.Richard Stallman, a&nbsp;hacker at MIT, decided that the world needed a free version of Unix. In 1983he announced that he would write onecalled GNU (Gnu's Not Unix). He&nbsp;wrote a free C compiler, and founded theFree Software Foundationto help. The system was eventually completed by hundreds of programmers, mostly steeped in the Unix and C culture, collaborating over the internet. In 1991 a Finnish computer science student, Linus Torvalds, contributed the operating system kernel, and today what we now call Linux powers billions of electronic devices, from smartphones to supercomputers.Ritchie and Thompson – usually together – received many honours and awards, culminating with the National Medal of Science awarded by President Bill Clinton in 1998. The&nbsp;citation described their inventions as having "led to enormous advances in hardware, software, and networking systems and stimulated the growth of an entire industry". Earlier this year, the pair won a Japan prize. Ritchie spent all his career at Bell Labs, retiring as head of&nbsp;systems software research in 2007. He is survived by two brothers and a sister.•Dennis MacAlistair Ritchie, computer scientist, born 9 September 1941; died 12 October 2011•Dennis Ritchie's Bell Labs homepage• This article was amended online on 14 October, before it appeared in print. Richard Stallman's development of GNU as a free form of Unix had not been mentioned. This has been corrected.
Google has expanded its ambitious language translation tool on Android smartphones to 14 dialects – including Russian and Mandarin – as the internet giant says it will soon "totally bridge the language barrier" using new technology.The updated Google Translate app for Android smartphones includes a dozen new languages, after the English and Spanish version launched in January.By speaking into their handset, users can hear their words translated in near real time. The app's conversation mode lets users talk in their native tongue, and translates back into one of the 14 languages spoken by billions of people around the world. Mandarin alone has more than 1 billion native speakers worldwide; English has about 1.5 billion people who speak it natively or as a foreign language."We want to make sure that the language barrier is not what keeps people from communicating, or from participating in a market space. We want to make language something that culturally defines you, but doesn't hold you back in any way," said Ashish Venugopal, a research scientist working on Google Translate."I think we're at a point where using mobile technology to totally bridge the language barrier is near."Unlike Google Translate on the web, the conversation mode of the Android app supported only English and Spanish until Thursday. The feature now lets people have conversations in Brazilian Portuguese, Czech, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Mandarin Chinese, Polish, Russian and Turkish.The largest gaps are those of Hindu-Urdu (about 490 million speakers worldwide) and Arabic (280 million speakers worldwide).Venugopal said the 14 languages were chosen based on demand from users. Google aims ultimately to be able to translate the 300 languages spoken by at least 1 million people worldwide. The web version of Google Translate, including the mobile app outside of conversation mode, supports 63 languages."We definitely see a future when people take Google Translate for granted - and that will be in the foreseeable future," Venugopal told the Guardian."It's about how do you do exactly what you do every day - go to web pages, read email, have phone conversations, talk to people in person - without having to think about what language it's happening in. That's the long term vision for Google Translate."Google released a rapid version of its Japanese translation tool in March this year, as it moved to help people communicate after a devastating earthquake hit the region.
BlackBerry services may continue being disrupted for an unknown length of time, the joint chief executive Mike Lazaridis said in a 20-minute press conference on Thursday afternoon. But the company's global network has now been restored to normal service, and that delays in delivering emails and instant messages will be due to the backlog that has built up during the near four-day outage of the service.Lazaridis said he wanted to "personally apologise to all BlackBerry customers we have let down". But he declined to say whether the company might be obliged to pay compensation to customers – which one analyst calculated could cost Research In Motion (RIM), the Ontario-based company which Lazaridis founded to develop the BlackBerry concept, up to $100m (£63m). RIM though says no such demands have been made.The backlog of emails is gradually being cleared, and RIM has pledged that none of the messages sent during the disruption will be deleted. The problem had been caused when a systems crash in RIM's Slough network centre had caused a "ripple effect" to the worldwide system, Lazaridis said.He said: "A dual redundant high-capacity course switch designed to protect the infrastructure failed."It caused outages and delays for some customers in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, India, Brazil, Chile and Argentina. This caused a cascade failure in our system. There was a back-up switch but the back-up didn't function as intended and this led to backlog of data in the system."RIM is now inspecting its infrastructure in a "root cause analysis" to uncover why the system took longer to restore than expected.Lazaridis added that he had been "very much involved" in the procedures to try to restore the system after its catastrophic failure. Another RIM executive said that nobody involved in trying to fix the problem had left the office during that period.The outages began at about 11am BST on Monday when engineers at RIM's network operations centre in Slough, Berkshire, attempted a hardware and software upgrade for the system serving customers in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India. But the update failed – and when the company tried to revert to a backup system, that failed too. The result was that millions of users did not receive emails or messages, and saw limited web surfing capability.The problems continued for three days, at one point spreading to both North and South America – including the US and Canada, RIM's key markets, but ones where it has been gradually losing users to rivals such as Apple's iPhone and phones running Google's Android software.In a video apology on YouTuberecorded late on Wednesday, Lazaridis said "I'd like to give you an estimated time of full recovery around the world – but I cannot do this with certainty at this time."At the press conference, Lazaridis said that the outage was the first for 18 months, and the largest in the company's history.But RIM has not apparently discussed the matter of compensation with global carriers whose customers have been affected by the disruption. Consumers are apparently excluded from any guarantee of service by a clause in RIM's terms and conditions, which they have to accept before getting the service. But a number of UK carriers have held meetings to decide whether RIM's terms and conditions exclude their corporate customers – many of whom have substantial contracts with the carriers and RIM – from any compensation.Malik Saadi,an analyst at Informa, calculatedthat RIM may have to pay its 70 million users worldwide up to $100m in compensation, based on a $5 per month fee for the services. "The total amount RIM should pay to refund its customers would be about US$12m per day," Saadi suggested. "This amount does not take into account liability fees for loss of data or any related legal issues. This could mean RIM paying over US$100m, and this amount could escalate for every subsequent day the service is out of action."Co-chief executive Jim Balsillie, speaking at the press conference, denied that mobile phone companies who work with BlackBerry would be seeking compensation for the disruption.He said: "The one thing you have to understand about these carriers is that people understand the complexity of these systems and when something like this happens everybody pulls together because it's all about serving the customers."
This is the transcript of thevideo apology by Mike Lazaridis, founder and co-chief executive of Research In MotionI'm Mike Lazaridis, founder of Research in Motion. Since launching BlackBerry in 1999 it's been my goal to provide reliable real-time communications around the world.  We did not deliver on that goal this week. Not even close.I apologise for the service outages this week. We've let many of you down. But let me assure you that we're working round the clock to fix this. You expect better from us, and I expect better from us.It's too soon to say this issue is fully resolved.But let me give you more detail about what's happening. We're now approaching normal BlackBerry service levels in Europe, the Middle East, india and Africa. We continue to monitor the system very closely. We 're working very hard to continue to stabilise the system, and we're seeing steady improvements. We expect to see continued progress, and possibly some instability, as the system comes back to normal service levels everywhere.We know that you want to hear more from us, and we're working to update you more frequently through our websites and social media channels as we gather more information.I'd like to give you an estimated time of full recovery around the world - but I cannot do this with certainty at this time.For those of you affected, I know this is very frustrating. We're doing everything in our power to restore regular service levels, and we're working tirelessly to restore your trust in us.We'll update you again soon. Thank you.
I have just bought my first smartphone, an HTC Wildfire, on a plan that provides for 500MB data usage per month. After the first evening of playing around, I was shocked to learn that I'd already used up over 100MB. Is it normal to use so much data through just having a look at a couple of normal sites and downloading a few apps? If so, how on earth do people make 500MB last a whole month? Most importantly, is Wi-Fi always free, and how would I know whether I'm being charged?Giulia KYou are not the only one to have this experience. I was using an HTC Sensation on pay-as-you-go and it was eating money. Charles Arthur also found that "HTC has various of its own apps which include News and Weather and which pound their servers for updates".You can reduce data usage by setting all the HTC apps so that they only refresh manually. Also, go to Settings, choose Accounts &amp; sync, and uncheck both Background data and Auto sync. (Unchecking Background data warns that "Some applications may still use the background data connection." Go figure.) In my case, I disabled all HTC's apps, especially the email client. I also turned off the location tracking (partly in the vain hope of retaining some privacy, and partly because I found HTC's weather updates became incredibly tiresome after about two days), reducing unintended data usage to zero. Wi-Fi is free as long as you select an open network (when away from your home network).Leeds University has a QuickStart guide (PDF) that might help. You could also install3G Watchdog, which costs £1.95 from the Android market.Charles says: "For almost anyone, 500MB is plenty enough. For guidance, I check emails and use Twitter every day, and use about 150MB per month max." While this is true, I think it's really bad service for network operators to supply a phone that is set up to use far more data than is provided by their contract terms. It's even worse when the phone doesn't make it easy to control how much data it's using.Saving passwords in OneNoteThe OneNote software that comes with Windows 7 allows files to be password protected. Putting all one's passwords into such a file seems a neat solution to the problem of keeping them safe. So the question is, how safe is this form of password protection?John KingMicrosoft OneNote makes it very easy to add password protection to pages, and remove it if required. I can't see any problem with using it to store a page containing all your passwords. OneNote uses very strong industry-standard encryption systems: 3DES in OneNote 2007, and AES (Advanced Encryption Standard, 128-bit key length) in OneNote 2010. Any system can be attacked using the brute-force approach of trying millions of passwords. However, if you use a strong password with a mixture of upper and lower case letters and numbers then it's very secure. If you use a password such as 1234, secret, password etc then no system is secure.Incidentally, OneNote isn't part of Windows 7: it was launched in 2002 and became part of Microsoft Office 2003. It's particularly useful for students and journalists because it can record audio synched with text -- including handwritten text on Windows-based tablets -- and it supports annotations. (Tip: use an external microphone!) You can use Windows Live Mesh and SkyDrive for cloud-based storage and synchronisation, and it's built into Windows Phone 7. Microsoft also offers a standalone app for iOS. However, the more recent Evernote has gained traction by appearing on more devices and by making a limited version available free (ad supported).Touch-screen e-readersWhich touch screen ebook reader do you recommend, and are some of the US models like Kobo &amp; Nook coming to the UK?David FletcherI answered this question in July, but things have moved on. At the time, I said "I believe Amazon will enter the market this year with a touchscreen version of the Kindle" and that "Amazon is also reportedly planning to enter the tablet market". Amazon made these announcements on September 28. I also said I didn't know if or when the Kobo and Nook would appear in the UK. Today, however, WH Smith announced that it would be selling the Kobo Touch eReader both in its shops and online from Monday 17 October. The price is £109.99.
A selection of apps for you today:Guardian iPad EditionDid we mention The Guardian's iPad app is now available? Launching as part of Apple's iOS 5 Newsstand feature, it delivers a daily digital edition of the paper to your iPad.More information here.iPadApple's iOS 5 appsHaving released its new iOS 5 software yesterday, Apple has also made some new apps of its own available. Find My Friends is a social location app to show your friends' and family's whereabouts on a map. iTunes Movie Trailers shows previews of new films as well as their showing times in cinemas. Cards turns iPhone photos into printed postcards, competing with third-party apps like Touchnote. Meanwhile, AirPort Utility is for managing Wi-Fi networks and AirPort base stations.iPhone / iPadFuture magazine appsUK magazine publisher Future has unleashed a blizzard of magazine apps for iOS 5's Newsstand – too many to cover individually, but you can browse them from the link above. They include Classic Rock, Edge, MacFormat, SFX, Total Film and – our favourite – Official Windows Magazine.iPhone / iPadTripAdvisor Mobile City GuidesNot one app here, but 20. Travel site TripAdvisor has launched 20 city guide apps on Android, offering reviews, tips and walking tours for tourists. Amsterdam, Barcelona, Beijing, Berlin, Boston, Chicago, Florence, Hong Kong, Hawaii, Las Vegas, London, Los Angeles, New York City, Orlando, Paris, Rome, San Francisco, Sydney, Tokyo, and Washington DC are the cities.AndroidTwonky Beam BrowserPacketVideo's new tablet app for iOS and Android involves browsing web videos on the device, and then "beaming" them to the TV – as long as it's internet-connected, of course. Its homepage recommends websites with videos to watch, too.iPad / AndroidEngadget DistroTechnology blog Engadget has a new iPad app that offers a more reflective take on the gadget universe: updated once a week with the important stories and reviews.iPadMixrThere are already several iPad DJing apps, including the excellent djay. DS Media Labs' Mixr is the latest contender, with a focus on DJs who know what they're doing with (virtual) wheels of steel. It taps into the iPad's music library, and offers a range of professional features.iPadGalaxy on Fire 2 HDYou'll need an iPhone 4S or iPad 2 to play this HD edition of Fishlabs' engrossing space epic. Adventure through the galaxy shooting, trading and meeting an array of non-playing characters. The graphics have been rebuilt from the existing non-HD version to take advantage of Apple's A5 processor. It follows the release of asimilarly rezzed-up versionfor Tegra-toting Android tablets.iPhone / iPadGood Housekeeping UKAnother Newsstand magazine hoping for success is Good Housekeeping UK, which is using Apple's new publications app and subscription billing to appeal to its iPad-owning readers.iPhone / iPadBeyond Planet Earth Augmented RealityThe American Museum of Natural History has launched an iPhone app using augmented reality to show animated planets, moon bases and lunar vehicles superimposed on the real world. It ties in with its new Beyond Planet Earth exhibition.iPhoneSpottdSpottd is the latest social location app, from UK company Floxx Media Group. It encourages its users to spot "something cool" while out and about, take a photo and share it with the world. The app also includes social deals to get cheap meals.iPhoneThe Smurfs Classic SeriesDeveloper zuuka has turned a range of "classic" Smurfs stories into a book-app for iPad. Yes, that's right: no computer-generated 2011 Smurfs here: just the original characters.iPadFlick Kick Aston VillaPikPok's Flick Kick Football remains one of the best free-kick games on smartphones, and has already spawned a branded version for Chelsea. Now Aston Villa get the same treatment, with a virtual Villa Park to play in.iPhone / iPadTommy Hilfiger Presents: Get PreppedFashion brand Tommy Hilfiger's first self-published iPhone app is subtitled Eau de Prep Fragrances, and asks people to "Pick a preppy look, test your Preppy IQ, and discover the key features of every prep wardrobe".iPhoneZombie Golf RiotDeveloper Blockdot has brought sports and gore together (at last!) on Android with Zombie Golf Riot. Playing golf using a chainsaw as a club and a zombie's head as a ball? There's now an app for that.Android
You canlisten to the programme herewhilst following the tweeted highlights below.  The subject of discussion was the teaching of computing skills. How are we to develop the UK's next wave of tech talent?
Demand for Apple's update to its iPhone and Mac software to enable its "iCloud" services caused a gigantic surge in internet traffic in Europe.Throughput in the UK jumped by 200 gigabits per second – equivalent to more than a fifth of normal traffic – a spike that lasted for roughly four hours.The colossal demand, which was mirrored around the world as the update became available from the company's servers at 1800 BST on Wednesday, will have been the severest strain on the cloud systems that Steve Jobs showed off in his last major speech in June.The normal daily ebb and flow of internet traffic through the London internet Access Point suddenly changed when the iOS5 update was released at 6pm BST on WednesdayThe demand led to slowdowns for many trying to download the software, and then to errors as their systems tried to connect back to Apple's servers, which had to verify the update on each device.Many feared that the update had "bricked" their phone and rendered it useless – but then found that it worked once Apple's servers came back online.Data from the London Internet Exchange doesn't seem like a dramatic growth - but the uptick equates to 200 gigabits per secondJay Freeman, an iPhone expert,tweetedan explanation: "To anyone getting 'An internal error occurred' (3200) while installing iOS 5.0, Apple's servers are swamped, and failing half the requests."The download was the sternest test that Apple's servers will have endured so far as millions of owners of iPhones and iPads able to run the new software tried to access it.However, the shift to iOS5 and iCloud should mean that Apple will in future avoid such gigantic rushes in demand. Future versions of the software can be downloaded "over the air", so that it will be able to pace the rollout of new versions of the software to iPhones, iPads and iPod Touches on a country-by-country or other basis, in order to ease the load.Germany's Berlin Internet Exchange also saw a huge spike in trafficThe iOS5 update brings a number of changes to the software, many of which make it more directly competitive with Google's Android: it introduces a system-wide "notifications" system as well as the over-the-air updating, both of which already feature in Android.However, iOS5 does not bring – as some upgraders seem to have expected – the "Siri" voice recognition assistant: though it was previously available as a free app for the iPhone 3GS upwards, it is now only available on the iPhone 4S, which goes on sale on Friday.The monthly view of the traffic through the Berlin internet exchange.The 30-day rolling view of traffic throughput at the London internet Access Point (LONAP): the iOS5 update is at the end
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamVlingo Virtual Assistant &gt;&gt; Android Market"Looking for Siri-like functionality on your Android device? Look no further."Vlingo is your very own Virtual Assistant. Simply speak to Vlingo and it will help you get more done, faster and easier than before. Try saying "Text John; What's up?" or "find italian restaurants" or even "update Facebook; Vlingo rocks!" Download to learn everything Vlingo can do for you."Try it today.Bing U.S. market share flat at 14.7% during September &gt;&gt; WinRumors"Microsoft's Bing search market share maintained its 14.7% in the United States during the month of September."The software giant's "decision engine" held onto 14.7% U.S. market share compared to Google's 65.3% according to data from comScore. Yahoo's market share dropped to 15.5% following a 16.3% figure in August."That's going to put a dent in Mashable's straight-line extrapolation where Bing + Yahoo take over from Google some time next year, then.Bing U.S. market share flat at 14.7% during September | WinRumorsOctober 12, 2011: The Day SMS Began To Die &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"October 12th, 2011. Mark it down, and come back and yell at me in a few years if I'm wrong. Today is the day SMS begins to die."It begins with today's launch of iOS 5. Or, really, it begins with iMessage."Actually, this is wrong; SMS is already peaking in a number of western countries, but not because of iMessage, but because of the availability of cheap data plans allied to services such as instant messaging and Twitter and Facebook. Tomi Ahonen has pointed to a peak in SMS in Holland last year. That's before iMessage.AOL CEO pitches investors on Yahoo deal: sources &gt;&gt; Reuters"A deal with Yahoo could serve as a way for Armstrong to bow out gracefully. The idea is not new -- it was floated when Microsoft Corp made a bid for Yahoo in 2008, and resurfaced again last year when AOL hired Bank of America and Allen &amp; Co to review alternatives."'As far as Armstrong's desire for an exit, he doesn't want to be doing what he is doing 18 months from now. He wants to be out,' said a source familiar with Armstrong's thinking. 'He's an ambitious sort of guy and AOL is such an afterthought. But he would definitely put his hat in the ring to run a combined Yahoo/AOL.'"Your exercise for today: would Yahoo's future be more or less safe with AOL or Microsoft?iOS update woes prompt gnashing of teeth for Apple fans &gt;&gt; The Register"Apple released the much-anticipated iOS 5 update for iPhones, iPads and iPod Touches on Wednesday, an update that was almost immediately met with error messages by throngs of users trying to download it from the company's servers."The errors, according to accounts on Apple support pages and this Cult of Mac report, carried messages indicating Apple servers couldn't keep up with demand. A separate report from Business Insider said users were receiving warnings their devices couldn't be restored."Panic on the streets of Hoxton. However, some of the error codes mean problems at Apple's end, not the user's.Coding For Kids wiki &gt;&gt; codingforkidsA resource only created on Wednesday night but which is going to improve and improve - bookmark it, take part, improve it. Really, it matters that our kids can code: if you wait until they're past 10, it can be too late to create the best.Steve Jobs single-handedly restructured the mobile industry &gt;&gt; Chris Dixon"Ask anyone who ran or invested in a mobile app startup pre-iPhone (I invested in one myself). Since the carriers had all the power, getting any distribution (which usually meant getting on the handset "deck") meant doing a business development deal with the carriers. Business development in this case meant finding the right people at those companies, sending them iPods, taking them to baseball games, and basically figuring out ways to convince them to work with you instead of the 5,000 other people sending them iPods and baseball tickets.  The basis of competition was salesmanship and capital, not innovation or quality."The carriers had so much power because consumers made their purchasing decisions by choosing a carrier first and a handset second. Post-iPhone, tens of millions of people started choosing handsets over carriers. People like me suffer through AT&amp;T;'s poor service and aggressive pricing because I love the iPhone so much."Microsoft reveals more Windows 8 beta changes &gt;&gt; WinRumorsChanges look promising; app screen looks like Apple Lion's. Windows 8 is shaping up to be the most visually pleasing version of Windows ever.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The launch of Fifa 12 has been a sales success heard around the world. Here, EA Sports' Andrew Wilson talks about the creation of the game, as well as the new online and consumer control developments within it.A belated congratulations on your not-too-recent appointment …Thank you.And a not-so belated congratulation onthe success of Fifa 12.We're amazed and proud of that. The team has done a fantastic job on that game.Have the Fifa 12 team allowed themselves to enjoy the moment?I'm hoping they give themselves at least the weekend to enjoy it and then they'll get back to criticising themselves next Monday. It's a little bit different this year with the EA Sports Football Club. There's a whole group now within the Fifa team that's focussed on delivering this 365-day service to people who bought the game. There's a whole new live service group now that has to make sure that service is in place week in and week out.Are there plans to expand the EA Sports Football Club to other sporting titles within the EA Sports range?That's the vision. We want to take that live service component to all of our big sports.It's almost like you've rolled an RPG (role-playing game) aspect into Fifa this year. Is this a way to make better use of the sports licenses that EA spends millions on every year?I think it's pretty perceptive to look at it as an RPG, and while we don't use that terminology for the game externally, we certainly look at it that way internally. An RPG is made up of a number of things: you have to have a unique ID – or unique character – you need persistence and progression for that character, ever-changing content which keeps the world rich and it's a good idea to wrap it up in a rich economy. Those are the four pillars of any great MMO (massively multiplayer online) or RPG.When we started to think about sports titles of the future with EA Sports Football Club – while not focussing on the MMO or RPG type of content – it is really about delivering the same satisfaction from those sort of experiences. There was a time where gamers either played sports games or they played RPGs. Now there's a lot more crossover in the industry; there are plenty of Fifa players who are playing games such as Dragon Age as well. We've been listening to the feedback from our audience and they say they want more compelling experiences in their sports games. That's what the EA Sports Football Club is all about.So is it your position, then – that just as Cliff Bleszinski (design director on Gears Of War 3) said: "The future of the shooter is the RPG," – that you think the RPG is also the future of the sports simulation?I think it's a part of it, certainly. I think the future of the sports sim is the fact that you can choose how you want to play it. That we allow you to play on any platform, at any time, at any price, anyway you want. Some players are all about the manager mode. Some players want the online head-to-head. The future for us lies in not compartmentalising any of the experiences, but to build a world where players can add value to their gaming experiences however they like.You watch TV on-demand and you select the music you want on iTunes based exactly on what sort of entertainment you're after and not what a TV company said you had to watch, or a record company forced you to listen to on a disc. I think that's the future for us.Fifa is EA's biggest title worldwide … it's also the biggest launch and the fastest-selling sports game ever. How does it do in markets where that isn't the case – such as North America and Australia?We aren't releasing territory specific data just yet, but we had 3.2m sell-through in week one. What's interesting about North America is that it's one of our fastest-growing territories for Fifa and it has been for a few years since the 2006 World Cup. It's actually, right now, challenging as the biggest territory for Fifa sales.The UK is still the strongest, but the USA is up there. Now, in Australia, we've seen tremendous growth since 2006, mainly because Australia was in that World Cup. We didn't have shining performances… (laughs), but hey, we didn't lose every game! It's growing, and even as the Rugby World Cup is going on in that part of the world right now, Fifa's numbers have been very strong. I'm actually quite happy to see my homeland doing it for Fifa.Speaking of the Rugby World Cup, there are two rugby game released this year – Rugby World Cup 2011 and Jonah Lomu's Rugby Challenge – and EA Sports didn't publish either of them. Why is that?We've had a focus as a company for the last few years to do fewer things and do them better. We only do games where we know we can deliver high-quality Triple-A experiences. That's a strategy that's paying off; we have games such as Fifa 12,NCAAwhich was an absolutely fantastic game and NHL which continues to be high-80s rated (onmetacritic.com) game. When it came to rugby we just felt like we couldn't deliver that high standard of experience – at least right now.How are the USA-centric sports titles doing in the UK and Europe?Well, NHL continues to grow. I think this is because hockey as a sport is getting more popular all the time, but also because the NHL title is a very good game. People who aren't even interested in following the hockey leagues in North America will pick up a copy because it plays very well. NBA and basketball have a broader appeal than you'd think andMaddenhas brand appeal on top of being a great game due to its longevity. I played Madden when I lived in Australia, and at the time I knew nothing about American Football, because it was a great sports game.What's happening with NBA Elite?We have given the team more time to focus on delivering the absolute best game that they possibly can. We're invested heavily there and we'll come back to the market when we believe we've got a great game. Again, our focus is to do fewer things better and to only do things that we can do well. Every decision we've made around NBA until that point has been to ensure that when we release it, it's the best basketball experience available.You also mentioned NCAA which is, according to some gamers, better even than Madden. Any plans to bring that to the UK/Europe?It's about finding the right distribution channel for that one. The biggest way we distribute is via retail and I think it'll remain that way for a while. But I think in the future, as things move more towards digital, there may be an opportunity for us. Things will still be territory specific but we will be looking at ways to help people who are fans of teams and sports outside their core territory.You're relaunching Fifa Street and SSX early next year. Are there any plans to bring back other franchises from the EA Sports Big label, such as Def Jam Wrestling or NBA Street?Not right now. We're always looking at when the right opportunity may happen. We launched NBA Jam at the end of last year and we've launched NBA Jam: On Fire Edition on PSN and Xbox Live this month. Fifa Street is coming back for the first time in three years and SSX is back for the first time in four.We never say never, but it has to be at a time where we have a team that's passionate about the property. What we've found is that passionate teams build great game. If we have that sort of team and we think the time's right to make that sort of product, we'd jump right back in there.EA Sports is really able to blur the line between being a gaming and a sporting brand because you're catchment area is the sports fan, who is into sports across different mediums …Yes, and their level of engagement isn't what you'd call passive. For example, one of the challenges we had on the EA Sports Football Club was the Tottenham/Arsenal challenge. There were 35,000 people who watched Tottenham v Arsenal live and then 10 times that many people took part in the challenge. Beyond that, we had 8m games played that day.The feedback we gather, based on who you are, who you support, who you play and how you play – all of that helps us enhance the way people play.The way you describe it makes it sound like something out of 24 …Well, that's pretty much it. We have large-scale live service team who, through the years, have built a bunch of tools that they can use – such as scenario editors – to push out these challenges on a week-by-week basis. As we get better at it, little by little we'll be able to put out more and more challenges, and hopefully we'll get to a point where consumers can drive their own challenges.Coming back to what you said earlier about Cliff Bleszinski saying the future of shooters is the RPG – I don't disagree with him. I think RPG forms a big part of a lot of things we're going to make, but consumer control – the ability to be instantly engaged with things that are important to you inside and outside the virtual space – is a big focus.
Thursday: we're almost at the weekend... you must be thinking about your video game plans!
An Australian court has temporarily banned Samsung from selling its new Galaxy tablet computer in the country, another setback for the South Korean electronics giant in a global patent battle with Apple, which accuses it of slavishly copying the iPad and iPhone.Federal Court Justice Annabelle Bennett on Thursday granted a temporary injunction against sales of Samsung's Galaxy Tab 10.1 in Australia. The decision prevents Samsung Electronics Co. from selling the device in Australia in its current form until a further court order, or until a pending patent lawsuit between the warring technology giants is resolved.The ruling is a blow for Samsung, which had hoped to launch the new product in time for Christmas sales. It comes after courts in other countries includingGermanyand theNetherlandsmade judgments that upheld Apple's claims that its intellectual property had been appropriated by Samsung.Samsung has hit back withthreats to ban sales of the new iPhone 4S in France and Germanyon the basis that it infringes patents that it holds on certain mobile technologies.The patent battle spanning 10 countries has created a perception of Samsung as an efficient imitator among technology companies rather than a pacesetter. Over the years, the company has grown to become the global No. 1 in TVs and No. 2 in smartphones by sales. But unlike arch-rival Apple, it has not mesmerised most consumers with its originality and innovation.It emerged recently that during 2010, Steve Jobs, then Apple's chief executive, tried to broker a deal between the two companies. Samsung is a major supplier of components to Apple, and Apple is one of Samsung's biggest customers, besides their rivalry in devices.The attempt failed and in April 2011, Apple, based in Cupertino, California, sued Samsung in the United States, alleging the product design, user interface and packaging of Samsung's Galaxy devices "slavishly copy" the iPhone and iPad.Samsung, from Suwon in South Korea, fought back with lawsuits of its own, accusing Apple of patent infringement of its wireless telecommunications technology.Apple filed the Australian lawsuit in July, accusing Samsung of copying its touch screen technology. In her ruling Thursday, Bennett said she was granting the temporary injunction in part because she felt Apple had a sufficient likelihood of winning the trial against Samsung.The judge's full orders will not be published until Friday. It was not immediately clear whether Samsung could or would attempt to sell a variation of the device that removed the features Apple objected to in the Australian lawsuit."We are disappointed with this ruling and Samsung will be seeking legal advice on its options," Samsung said in a statement. "Samsung will continue its legal proceeding against Apple's claim in order to ensure our innovative products remain available to consumers."Samsung, which filed its Australian countersuit in September, said it remained confident it could prove Apple violated its wireless technology patents."We will continue to legally assert our intellectual property rights against those who violate Samsung's patents and free ride on our technology," the company said in a statement.An attorney for Apple declined to comment after the hearing.
Lisa Simpson took her BlackBerry with her when she went to help out at the Brownies in her home town in Devon on Tuesday evening; she was hoping to get confirmation of a client for her freelance translation services. No message came – but when she got home there was an email on her computer saying: "As you didn't reply, we had to give the work to someone else."Simpson missed out on £300 of work ("particularly disappointing, because they would have been a new client") but is only is one of tens of millions around the world feeling the effects of a dramatic computer crash at the UK headquarters of Research In Motion (RIM) in Slough, Berkshire, this week.The crash means that, at times, emails and messages cannot be sent or received. Web browsing is also intermittent.Consumers such as Simpson have not been the only ones affected: for thousand of bankers around Europe awaiting the latest news about the euro, silence has not been golden. Their BlackBerrys have at times not been relaying messages.Engineers at Slough have been working since 11am on Monday to try to restore the service after the equivalent of a "Chernobyl moment" – where an experiment with a crucial system goes horribly wrong.For the Russian nuclear reactor it was an after-hours test which blew the roof off the building and exposed its radioactive core; for RIM, the Guardian understands, it was a botched attempt to upgrade the software and hardware that encrypts messages, emails and web traffic for users across Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India, and which has now exposed RIM to furious demands that it get its act together – or see customers desert it in the only regions where it had growth.But the attempts to fix the problem only seem to make it worse. By midday on Wednesday the disruption had spread to North America – including Canada, where Jim Balsillie and Mike Lazaridis founded RIM in 1984.  They are now the co-chief executives and co-chairmen of a business that once challenged Nokia as the leader in the smartphone business. But it has recently seen its shares, revenues and profits all fall as Apple and phones using Google's Android software have taken over, and the twin bosses are under threat from shareholders.As for the outage, "the really worrying thing is that we don't know how long it's going to take," said one business that deals with RIM.  "They're saying tomorrow morning – but they were saying that yesterday."  The timing is more embarrassing for RIM because it comes in the week Apple releases a major update to its mobile phone software, which brings a capability called "iMessage" to compete directly with RIM's BlackBerry Messenger.The danger is that RIM's reputation – among both young connected consumers and corporations that each make up about half of its 70 million users worldwide – may also be permanently damaged."For big companies this can be crippling if they have people relying on their BlackBerry to get email," said Carolina Milanesi, smartphone analyst at the research company Gartner – who says she is relieved that she is not travelling on Thursday: "company policy is that we have to use a BlackBerry for email. I would be scrambling to get to a wireless connection so I could use my iPhone."Milanesi thinks big companies might be considering their options, as Apple's iPhone has notably begun to make inroads into businesses that were previously RIM's stronghold. The revelation that tens of millions of users are relying on a single system in Slough could have businesses reconsidering their reliance on it.The encryption of messages, and RIM's private system, which avoids international roaming costs, had made BlackBerry highly attractive both to businesses and consumers. But on Wednesday users such as Alastair Campbell and the cricketer Kevin Pietersen expressed anger at the delay. Campbell criticised RIM's silence, and inadvertently coined a new word. "Day 3 of blackberry black-out,"he tweeted. "Some free advice. Explain while you fix. Apologise when you have. Recompense after. handling so far woefuk." (Later, he added: "Woefuk was indeed a typing error. If it catches on, I will claim it.")Pietersen threatened to change phone – a move many said they were considering.RIM however has said barely anything to explain the problem, issuing brief statements until Stephen Bates, its UK &amp; Ireland chief executive, told a group of developers on Wednesday morning: "We thought we had found the problem [that caused the outage] but had not. We are working around the clock to get to the bottom of the problem."He added: "We are working night and day to solve the outage. Our apologies to all our customers." The delays, he said, were "not acceptable", and the "server issues are regarded with high focus". RIM, he said, "is not going to stop until they get to the end of the problem".David Yach, CTO for Software, promised RIM will not resort to deleting the huge backlog of messages that has built up. "All the email will be delivered," he said.Sources with knowledge of RIM's systems suggest the problem has been brewing for years. In mid-2007, when the introduction of Apple's iPhone helped drive the explosion in smartphone sales, RIM had 5.5 million subscribers. At the end of this August it had 70 million, a 12-fold growth. But former staff say the company only began thinking about how to rewrite its core systems to deal with its massive growth in the past few years – and that the outage this week is the result.Simpson said she would be prepared to stick with RIM – for now. "I'm really anti-iPhone. I think the BlackBerry's fantastic. I'm giving them one week. If it carries on then I might have to get an Android phone."Tweets of rageLord Sugar, who as he pointed out created one of the first really big British PC businesses, wasinfuriatedby the outage. "In all my years in IT biz, I have never seen such a outage as experienced by Blackberry. I can't understand why it's taking so long to fix."Headded: "All my companies use BB's, every one so reliant on getting email on the move, people don't know if they are coming or going,"notingtoo that "I'll tell you what even without knowing the ins and outs of what's wrong. If it was my company it would have been fixed by now." To the suggestion that this is an "eggs in one basket" problem, hereplied: "Yes but this is kids' stuff with backup servers, I just don't get it – servers are always conking out, you have contingency plans." It would cause, hesuggested, "Massive damage to their image. Corporate users must be going bananas."Kevin Pietersen, England cricketer, moved from frustration to a threat to leave. On Monday hetweeted: "Can someone at Blackberry PLEASE sort out this BBM problem!!! PLEASE!!!"By Wednesday, the tone wasmore threatening: "Android, iPhone &amp; Vertu are being investigated this afternoon … Blackberry has made me SO grumpy."A tweet byJemima Khanon Tuesday wasmore plaintive: "Blackberry down again … anyone else?"But it was the former Labour spin doctorAlastair Campbellwho tore into the company for its lack of communication. On Monday hebegan: "'my blackberry' trending ought to be good news for blackberry in these techie days. But it's not. My blackberry in blackout mode. Sort pls." Soon his annoyance wasshowing: "Have Blackberry said what if anything is going on to fix the problem?" The lack of response led torising frustration. "Amazed that Blackberry can be so good at Blackberry stuff, but so bad at crisis comms to customers #getmybloodyblackberrybackon"Soon it was awhipping boy, in a way former Labour ministers might find familiar. "Am going to Macedonia tomorrow. speaking about crisis comms. Many thanks Blackberry for providing topical example of how not to do it." He then accidentally invented a new word – "woefuk" – to describe RIM's handling of thesituation. "day 3 of blackberry blackout. Some free advice. Explain while you fix. Apologise when you have. Recompense after. handling so far woefuk."Hedidn't relent: "On a serious note, can someone at @blackberryuk explain WTF is going on, and what you are doing to fix, explain and recompense?"Hisfinal question- before he flew: "@blackberrryUK WTF is going on and when will it end and why has your handling plan been so woefuk?"Charles Arthur
Stephen Fry waxes lyrical about the magical delights of the latest mobile "phone" from Apple Corp (Smarter, faster … and it answers back. Apple's latest is a fine tribute to Jobs, 12 October). Could we not exercise a little more sociological imagination? Please! The mass adoption of such devices and their associated data centres in advanced industrial economies such as ours is possibly of similar significance to the adoption of money systems.Furthermore, we might ask the same questions that we should ask about the money system: who benefits, who loses, what social form results, what are the ecological outcomes, etc? Indeed, what of personal outcomes, too, and how do we feel about it?The feeling of being trapped in modern society is the starting point of the sociologist C Wright Mills in his 1959 book The Sociological Imagination. We might care to revisit his work today, given the enormity of the changes&nbsp;that&nbsp;seem to be happening. The capital investors in these data industries can see the "opportunity" – what about the rest of us?Andrew WoodOxford
The board of Research In Motion (RIM), the Canadian company behind BlackBerry, was under renewed pressure this evening to oust the company's co-chief executives and prepare the group for a sale, merger or breakup.Activist investor Jaguar Financial Corporation, which claims to speak for 12 of the group's 20 largest shareholders and 8% of its stock holders, says private equity could afford to pay up to $16bn (£10bn), about $3bn more than RIM's current market capitalisation, to take the company private.As RIM battled to contain a three-day outage of its email service, which has spread from Europe to Africa and now North and South America, affecting many of its 70 million users, Jaguar called for Jim Balsillie and Mike Lazaridis, who are co-chief executives and co-chairmen, to step down."Their time as builders is over," said Vic Alboini, Jaguar's chairman and chief executive. "Management has failed to appreciate RIM's competitive environment, which largely explains RIM's declining market presence and dramatically reduced share price. RIM has become a reactionary company trying to compete in an innovative industry."Jaguar, which describes itself as a merchant bank, says its support among investors has passed the 5% threshold needed to call a shareholders' meeting, at which it could force board change.Before then, Alboini plans to speak to directors to negotiate a new strategy. He is proposing the separation of the chief executive and chairman's roles, the appointment of a transformational chief executive, and recruiting new directors with substantial technology experience.If the board rejects his proposals, Alboini told the Guardian he would, with the backing of major investors, begin marketing the company to potential acquirers."If the board aren't flexible, we will go back to the shareholders with a plan to requisition a meeting. At some stage we may decide as a group to engage in discussions with potential acquirers."He believes RIM could be broken up into a network company, a handset maker and a patent company. He said the group could also attract private equity buyers, and larger technology and hardware firms in the mobile business, such as Apple, Microsoft, and software company Oracle.RIM shares were trading at nearly $70 in February, but are now worth just under $25, meaning the company has lost nearly two thirds of its value in eight months.BlackBerry has become the standard for business users, its rise seemingly unstoppable until earlier this year, since when the reversal in its fortunes has been swift and dramatic.RIM's revenues nearly doubled over three years, peaking at $5.6bn in February 2011, but have been in rapid decline for three quarters now.The company saw profits collapse over the summer as a lack of new models, low demand for its tablet computer and the unstoppable rise of the iPhone and Android mobiles took their toll.Income before tax fell 54% to $414m (£262m) in the quarter to 27 August, from $904m in the previous quarter. Revenues fell to $4.2bn, at the bottom end of the company's own forecasts.RIM declined to comment on shareholder unrest.
For three days now, hundreds of thousands of desperados have been camped on Twitter demanding to know why their BlackBerry hasn't been working. For some of the millions of BlackBerry users worldwide it has been a time of intense grief, with relationships abruptly ended in retaliation for a failure to reply to abillet-doux; others, presumably, will only find out they have been dumped when normal service is resumed.Then there are those for whom the BlackBerry failure has been nothing but a liberation: a rare excuse to skip work and a time to temporarily forget their sexual inadequacy in the absence of email invitations to cure their erectile dysfunction. And then there are the people like me who get so few emails and texts that I hadn't really noticed anything was wrong.But every new situation calls&nbsp;for a neologism, and so far the best Twitter has come up with is "BlackBerry outage". A&nbsp;phrase spawned in techno&nbsp;hell. Surely&nbsp;there must&nbsp;be something better than that? BlackBerry crumble? BlackBerry jam? If you&nbsp;have a suggestion, please let us know. Via&nbsp;iPhone.
Up to 93,000 accounts have been compromised in a fresh attack on Sony's online servers, following an attack earlier this year that saw the company's PlayStation Network taken offline.According to theofficial PlayStation blog, attempts were made to access data held on the Sony Entertainment Network, PlayStation Network and Sony Online Entertainment services using a "massive" set of sign-in IDs and passwords.The company's chief information security officer, Philip Reitinger, said in a statement on the blog that a majority of the passwords did not work and that customer credit card information was not at risk. The company has temporarily suspended 93,000 accounts.Reitinger was quick to shift responsibility for the break-in to third-party sites or servers. "These attempts appear to include a large amount of data obtained from one or more compromised lists from other companies, sites or other sources," he said."In this case, given that the data tested against our network consisted of sign-in ID-password pairs, and that the overwhelming majority of the pairs resulted in failed matching attempts, it is likely the data came from another source and not from our networks. We have taken steps to mitigate the activity."In April, Sony was forced to take its PlayStation Network service offline for several weeksafter a hacking attackaccessed the account details of up to 70 million PS3 owners.The chief executive, Howard Stringer, offered a personal apology to gamers after the scandal, but many were angry that Sony's security was compromised so extensively and that it took the company several days to acknowledge and report that a hack had taken place. A month later, the hacking groupLulzsec claimed to have obtained the personal informationof more than 1 million users from Sony Pictures websites.On this occasion, Sony appears to have notified customers almost immediately, and this is a much smaller, less sophisticated intrusion. Reitinger claimed that accounts compromised in the latest attack would be monitored for unauthorised access and that affected customers would be emailed and asked to change their log-in details. The accounts have currently been disabled.Reitinger, a former US homeland security official who was installed as Sony's information security chief in the wake of the April hacking controversy, ended his statement by reminding customers to choose unique, hard-to-guess passwords and "always look for unusual activity in your account".
