Monday's New Year Bank Holiday Edition of Chatterbox
'Extravaganza - Prediction = True'. Photo byPilottageon Flickr.Some rights reservedSo how did I do in mytechnology predictions for 2010, made back in January?It's been quite a year: the rise of Android, the growth of the iPad, the would-be Android tablet rivals, Google's privacy travails over Street View and over Wi-Fi data collection, Microsoft's return to the smartphone market, Microsoft'ssuccess with Windows 7, and everything else. But let's go back to those predictions.ApplePrediction 1:"Apple will launch a tablet computer... a multitouch interface that uses a 3D paradigm (as per the patent revealed recently). And in some models has mobile connectivity, like a big iPhone."Yes - tablet, multitouch, mobile in some models. No - 3D. (Though this meme is coming around again.)3/4.Prediction 2:"Apple will sell 5m tablets in the first nine months or so. (It sold 4m iPhones in its first six months in 2007.)"In its first 28 days from launch,1m were sold,2m in 60 days,3m in 80 days(by mid-June). Itsold 9m in the July-September quarter. The 5m was an underestimate. Then again, it certainly did manage that. So, the full mark rather than a half?4/5Prediction 3:"No viruses or self-replicating worms will be discovered that affect Mac OS X. Still a banker of a prediction, year after year."Banker it is. But probably time to retire it now.5/6.Prediction 4:"Steve Jobs will remain as chief executive of Apple through to 2011."This seems easy in retrospect, but recall that he had come back from cancer and then problems requiring aliver transplant. Some in the medical profession weren't confident. But, there he is.6/7.Prediction 5:"Apple will not release a netbook. It doesn't need to – the tablet will do the job."Turned out correct again. You could argue that the11in MacBook Air released in Octoberis a netbook in all but name, but two things argue against that: its price (well above that for a netbook, and level with that for its cheapest MacBook) and screen size (generally, 10 inches rather than 11 is where netbooks are reckoned to stop).If anything, theiPad sucked the life out of the netbook market, at least in analysts' eyes. Possibly netbooks were just heading for a collapse because mobile networks had pushed them like mad in 2009, and people didn't want to buy a second computer that did much less than their original.Anyway,7/8. Going well so far.MicrosoftPrediction 6:"Windows Mobile's share of the smartphone market, as measured by Canalys, will continue to fall, while Apple, RIM and Palm grow theirs."Back in January, nobody outside Microsoft knew about Windows Phone 7, or that Windows Mobile would be effectively slung into an open grave. According toCanalys's research for Q3 2010, "Devices running Microsoft's OS accounted for just 3% of worldwide smart phone shipments in Q3 2010, though with the launch of Windows Phone 7 devices, the outlook for the fourth quarter and beyond is significantly improved." Apple grew its share of the US smartphone market, but it's not clear that it grew it worldwide - that honour went to Android, which leapt into second place (behind Nokia, which hung on to first place with a 33% share, according to Canalys.) RIM just about managed to keep its share level. Palm's fell off a cliff when it was sold to HP; basically, HP didn't support the Palm Pre at all. No growth there.So out of four predictions there (WM shrinks, iPhone grows, RIM grows, Palm grows) you could give +1 on the WM forecast, half marks on the iPhone and RIM forecasts, and 0 on Palm.Which gives us9/13.Prediction 7:"Steve Ballmer will continue as chief executive of Microsoft through to 2011, but shareholder pressure will grow as the company's revenue growth fails to match that of rivals."Ballmer is indeed still there (after 10 years). Shareholder pressure? Certainly thedirectors cut Ballmer's bonus, but there's little sign of real angst amid the big shareholders who might make a difference. 0 and 1 which gives us10/14.Prediction 8:"Internet Explorer, having been revealed as the avenue for far too many hacker attacks, will continue to lose market share to Firefox and especially Google's much-advertised Chrome browser."The trends on theWikipedia page about browser share(which draws together various sources and analyses their merits and demerits) is clear: IE has lost market share to Firefox and Chrome. Apple's Safari isn't doing much; it has about half of Chrome's share.) Which gives us11/15.GooglePrediction 9:"The Chrome operating system for netbooks will be advertised on the basis that, among other things, "you don't need virus protection" (because the OS and apps can't be changed, except by Google itself)."Nope, not really. Quite apart from the fact that ChromeOS was delayed, and barely squeaked out to selected reviewers' hands by the end of December, thetagline that Google really pushedwas that "Chrome notebooks are built and optimized for the web, where you already spend most of your computing time. So you get a faster, simpler and more secure experience without all the headaches of ordinary computers." OK, there's a little bit of "secure" in there, but it's not a virus thing. What Google pushed in its YouTube video was that it doesn't matter what machine you're using it on - your data store is in the cloud.Watch:Which goes some way to suggest that viruses aren't the thing it thinks it needs to persuade people about; it's that it thinks it needs to get people comfortable with the cloud. So, no:11/16.Prediction 10:"Google's market share will continue growing in the US and Europe, prompting privacy investigations."Did its share continue to grow? Certainly it didn't fall. And the privacy investigations - well, Google StreetView brought all sorts of investigations, and the addition of Wi-Fi data snarfing made it worse. And at the tail end of the year came the warning of a possible antitrust investigation.Yes, that's12/17.Prediction 11:"More devices will be sold that run the Android operating system than Windows Mobile. (This will be tricky to measure because Microsoft has recently become all shy about announcing sales figures for Windows Mobile, at just the time that Apple leapfrogged it with the iPhone.)"This turned out to be easy, because Windows Mobile was quietly taken around the back and shot. Windows Phone 7, introduced in November, so far hasn't set the world alight. But remember that it wasn't so obvious at the start of 2010, until manufacturers were encouraged by the progress of the iPhone to start offering something a bit similar but cheaper. Up to13/18.Prediction 12:"Eric Schmidt will not remain as chief executive of Google through to 2011, though he will probably stay as chairman."Wrong. Schmidt is still there. I thought that tensions over China, Android and the growth of the company would put strains on his relationship with Larry Page and Sergey Brin. But success tends to breed contentment. No split:13/19.ComputingAt the time I wrote:We now have hard drives that can hold more data than we can ever create, and computers that can process faster than we can generally find use for. What we don't have is really long battery life and really light machines, except at a premium. So there's a market to go for …Prediction 13:"Three of the big computer makers (for example HP, Dell and Apple) will begin to offer solid state (Flash) hard drives for a growing number of their laptops, with SSDs becoming the primary option for some by the end of the year. (I'm not including the MacBook Air, which has an SSD as standard.) SSD prices are dropping fast: you sacrifice some storage capacity, but gain battery life and a lighter machine."Not really. Apple did push SSDs again with the MacBook Air introduced at the end of the year, but constraints on SSD manufacturing have kept the price up and volumes relatively small, compared to rotating drives. Who knows about 2011 though... still, that's a miss.13/20.Prediction 14:"OLED screens will become a build-to-order option on laptops from major manufacturers (probably starting with Sony, Acer or Asus): they're brighter than LED-based ones."Didn't happen, despite lots oftalk from Samsungabout having an OLED laptop in "Q3 2010".13/21.Prediction 15:"On Apple's lead, more companies will tout their tablet (more precisely, keyboardless "slate") computers – but won't see anything like its sales, despite Windows 7's multitouch abilities."The number of Android tablets being offered (which contrasts intriguingly with the absence of Windows 7 tablets) bears this out, don't you think? However there's no sign that sales have been anywhere near the iPad's multi-millions. As for Windows 7 on a tablet, just be grateful these haven't sold.14/22.EbooksPrediction 16:"Despite all the excitement at CES about ebooks and ereaders, and the subsequent excitement about Apple's iTablet, they won't show much growth in revenues compared to 2009. Free ebooks are fine, but they're just a sop to people who have ereaders and consequently no cash left."Given that Amazon now says the Kindle (with its price cut) is its best-selling product ever, and Barnes &amp; Noble says the same about the Nook, and that Amazon says ebooks outsold hardbacks at one stage in 2010, this looks like a miss. I could quibble about the fact that Amazon and Barnes &amp; Noble haven't released any actualnumbers, but it wouldn't get past the fact that ebooks are showing signs of really having taken off in 2010. Miss.14/23.Prediction 17:"Copyright, and particularly file compatibility arguments, will continue to dog ereaders and ebooks, while the popularity of physical books will grow: more physical books will be sold in the UK in 2010 than 2009."While you can't buy a book on your iPad and read it on your Kindle, you can do the opposite via Amazon's Kindle for iPad; an the iPad's adoption of the ePub standard has meant that the problems aren't so great. In fact the bigger complaint from readers is that ebooks often contain mistakes such as "5" instead of "S" - the result of high-speed scanning which hasn't been proofread to generate the ebook from a printed version.And physical books? "Book sales have been treading water since 2003" in the US (it sayshere) and in the UK The Bookseller sayssales were down (by value) 5.5%.So both wrong.14/25.GovernmentPrediction 18:"The Digital Britain bill will fall as the election (in May?) intervenes and kills off legislation in progress."Wrong. It gotsqueezed through in the wash-up, causing much outrage.14/26.Prediction 19:"The freeing of Ordnance Survey map data (in April) will see rival companies vying to produce paper maps specialised for various niches such as ramblers and climbers, and an explosion in websites that mash all sorts of government content against maps."Wrong about the paper maps - the government decided to keep the Landranger and Explorer scales proprietary to OS, stymieing would-be paper map makers. But there's certainly been a healthy growth in the number of sites using it, from OpenlyLocal to others showing where tube trains are to where Boris Bikes are. Hit and miss:15/28.Prediction 20:"If elected, the Tories will also back the freeing of Ordnance Survey data (rather than privatising it) and of other government data."Remember, this was back in January, before the Tories had laid out theirtechnology manifesto, which didn't come out till March. I'll take this as a point up, please.16/29.Hackers and hackingPrediction 21:"The use of Microsoft Windows in security-critical organisations will be seriously questioned. Although the developers of many of the high-profile companies such as Google, Facebook and Twitter use Linux or Mac OS X, there is still a notable security hole in the people in those organisations who use Windows – for example, in lower-profile areas such as accounting and finance. What's the cost of switching from Windows? And what's the cost of losing your source code through a hole in Windows? For a growing number of companies, the first number will become smaller than the latter. And what did those adverts for Google Chrome OS say?"Most organisations consider security critical, but the cost of changing from Windows to anything else remains too high to be considered. It's now an embedded part of the landscape. Miss:16/30.Prediction 22:"Suddenly, encrypted email will start to look like a good idea. It might be time to investigate GPG, the freeware encryption system."Although encrypted email is always a good idea (ask Julian Assange), it's still too cumbersome for the average person. Plus it's too complicated to figure out how to do it on email. Instead, webmail via secure sites is much more effective. In both these two forecasts, you'll note, I was too expectant that people would move away from ineffective systems just because they were ineffective. In fact, people will stick with ineffective systems if getting out of them is too much hassle. Mathematicians and evolutionary scientists call this the "local minima" effect: without something special to push you out of a comfortable place, you'll never leave it.Anyhow, miss:16/31.Prediction 23:"Hackers will resort to DNS poisoning (already used in some situations) as a corollary to phishing, because you're directed to sites that look like they have the correct URL (such as paypal.com) but are in fact fakes."DNS poisoning did happen, but not very widely. It's too hard to make it effective across a large part of the net. Miss.16/32.Broadband and videoPrediction 24:"The demand for data through the BBC's iPlayer will make ISPs complain again about the strain on their networks. (Isn't it odd how that complaint went away, though demand went up?) Even so, iPlayer use will show a rising (if not exponential) growth. As a consequence, ISPs still won't offer truly unlimited broadband packages."ISPs did complain, though this time it was the mobile ISPs, who grumbled about how much data people were using when they were given unlimited packages, and summarily turned off the tap in mid-year (although 3 came back in at the end of the year and re-offered it). And iPlayer use kept going up. Add one:17/33.Prediction 25:"3D TV and 3D Blu-ray will arrive and will be wildly popular among early adopters. Other people, who can't afford to upgrade their TV every two years, will sniff that they 'still like their old DVD, thanks very much' while secretly coveting the new stuff."Hard to know whether people are really coveting 3D TV. Do you know anyone who has one who has actually paid for it? I don't. I'm not even sure that the early adopters are finding it that great an experience - you need such a vast screen (about 40") to get anything out of 3D TV that very few homes have large enough living rooms. Hit:18/34.Prediction 26:"The government consultation on how to encourage the building of next-generation broadband will generally get the response that government ought to encourage "outside-in" construction – putting fast broadband in the far-flung places where it would never arrive if the market ruled. That's because those are the people who generally suffer the most from high transport costs when travelling to work."This was a consultation that ran very early in the year under the Labour government. The incoming coalition under Jeremy Hunt and Ed Vaizey threw it away and promised to encourage a brave new world where some time Real Soon Now we'd all have superfast connections. And they decided to promote it from the "inside out", starting at the edge of the place where communications companies make money and pushing them outwards. Miss:18/35.Being socialPrediction 27:"Facebook's growth will level off in the western world. There's only so many people you can encourage to poke and friend you."Facebook has kept growing through the year,passing the 500m mark. But the ever-valuableNick Burcher's numbers (from September)show that in the US and UK and European countries, Facebook's 12-month growth is a lot slower than its 24-month growth. The more interesting question is, where will it stop?19/36.Prediction 28:"Twitter will start making money – not just through searches (it charges Google and Bing), but also through charging companies for various sorts of access to its network and data."Yup - Twitter figured out a way to turn its huge audience into money, by sellingsponsored tweetsand its"Earlybird" schemeto push sponsored products. Do those cover its costs? Not quite, but with a huge cushion of venture capital funding, it can afford to let its audience grow and target them better - just as Facebook has done. Hit:20/37.Prediction 29:"AOL will sell Bebo and/or News Corporation will sell MySpace; in either or both cases, at a substantial loss."AOL sold Bebo in Junefor about $10m rather than the $850m (yes!) it bought it for, and MySpace sale rumours swirled, even as News Corporation denied it. Solid:21/38.And finally ...Prediction 30:"Mobile phones with geolocation/GPS will comprise 5% of those sold in the UK. Ambitious, but we can hope."According to ComScore, in the three months ending in February 2010,5.7m people in the UK used mobile maps from their phones- which of course requires GPS. Given that there are roughly 60m mobile phones being used in the UK, that's already 10%; even if you assume that ComScore had some people double-counted, you still have to allow that millions more smartphones have been sold since then, which means many more GPS-enabled phones. Let's face it, they're all over the place.Bringing us to the end, and a total of22/39, or 56.4%.Compared tolast year(63%) or theyear before(68%), this was clearly below par. (Or maybe my par is just slipping).Later this week I'll have my predictions for the year ahead. Let's see if I can't bring the average back up. If you'd like to suggest categories or points you think should be included, please do.
Mapa amigos Facebook. Photo byluis perezon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoldman Invests in Facebook at $50 Billion Valuation &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comGoldman Sachs and "a Russian investor" (the same one that's already in?) invests $500m to get 10% of the company, "valuing" it as $50bn. Or as someone observed, "Goldman Sachs just bought the deal to float Facebook".We know that it's a crocodile &gt;&gt; virtualeconomics"We keep using a service that we know is run by people who don't believe in privacy. We'll complain about this latest intrusion, but we won't stop using Facebook and we won't take the "like" buttons off our sites. They know it, we know it. Unless we're actually going to stop using it, we've signed up for a social network that will, deliberately and with plenty of warning, take away our privacy as quickly as it can get away with. We know it's a crocodile. We should stop acting surprised when it bites us."New Android Market Stats Out, Over 200k Apps Available - Softpedia"Apple's App Store for the iPhone, iPod and iPad might still be on the first position, with over 300k application available for download for its users, but the Android Market is still going up, and it even seems to be accelerating."Android Market tracker AndroLib.com is currently showing a total number of over 200,000 application and games available for download via the software portal.Even more interesting would be the fact that the number of downloads in the storefront is growing pretty fast too, with over 103 downloads per second on average at the moment.At the same time, the tracker shows that the app store managed to pass the 2.5 billion downloaded applications mark, a number pretty impressive too, especially when taking into consideration the fact that the Android Market was launched only two years ago.Sluggish growth in UK smartphone market - 12/20/2010 - Computer Weekly"The UK smartphone market is lagging behind that of Germany and France, according to research from telecoms provider Ciena."Only 4% of UK online respondents without a mobile internet connection say they will subscribe to one in the next 12 months, compared with 12% in Germany and 17% in France, it found."Of the 35% of UK respondents who do not have a mobile data connection, 72% said that they saw no need for it."Smartphone refuseniks? Except the phones will get smart anyhow.Nokia and Microsoft, not sitting in a tree &gt;&gt; Coyote TracksA (now former, since the layoffs) Nokia employee explains that there isn't the tiniest chance that Nokia will take up Windows Phone 7: "Nokia really does have their OS strategy figured out, and it's a good one. What they don't have figured out is user experience design, a way to compete with the "$85 smartphone" Horace Dediu envisions, and, oh yes, the whole damn North American market. The good news for them is that over the last year they've started to take all those problem seriously. The bad news is that they needed to have been taking them seriously in 2007."Lyon cyclists pedal faster on Wednesdays, smart bike data shows&gt;&gt; Technology Review"During the rush hour, however, the average speed rises to almost 15 km/h, a speed which outstrips the average car speed. And that's not including the time it takes to find a place to park which is much easier for a Velo'v bike than a car."Other results reveal the habits of the urban cyclist for the first time. For example, there is a clear peak in average speed at 7.45 am and 8.45 am on working days, when presumably there is rush to get to work. The average speed drops to a more leisurely 10 km/h at weekends."Curiously, the Wednesday morning speeds are systematically higher than on other days, even though there is no change in other factors such as the number of cars. This, say Jensen and co, is probably because women tend to stay at home and look after their children on a Wednesday in France. So the higher proportion of men pushes up the average speed."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
There was further alarm for Apple over the weekend as iPhone and iPod users complained they had missed wake-up calls because of a software programming error.The new year malfunction followed problems with late alarms for users in Europe andAustralia and New Zealandas the clocks changed last year and an embarrassing hiatus over howtheir grip might affect signal receptionfor the then new iPhone4 in the summer.Apple promised everything would be back to normal today: "We're aware of an issue related to non-repeating alarms set for January 1 or 2," spokeswoman Natalie Harrison told Reuters. "Customers can set recurring alarms for those dates and all alarms will work properly beginning January 3."Owners complained on Facebook and Twitter: "2011 broke the iPhone alarm," as one put it. Others said they had missed meetings, church, airline flights and trains as a result of the bug.No reason has been given for the glitch, which Apple said affected iPhones using its latest iOS 4.0 operating system, including updated earlier versions of the smart phone.Holly Wheeler, from Edinburgh, commented ona BBC thread: "Four adults, four iPhones, six alarms, one baby and all of us overslept by an hour and a half! It was manic trying to get our friends and their baby out of the house to make their train from Edinburgh to Bournemouth. They made it ok, but it could have been a very expensive problem. Do we blame it on Apple or our over-reliance and belief in their products? I'm just off out to get myself a rooster."Nick Pound from Staffordshire, wrote: "I had two alarms set for 0400 to get my family up and to Birmingham airport for 0500. Alarms failed! We missed the 0700 flight to Turin and had to pay over £1,000 for flights to Chambery. I'm typing this from a private taxi trying to get to Sestriere for our ski holiday! Far, far, far from happy! Dear Apple."Kerys Bessell, from Basildon, Essex, said: "Myself and my boyfriend were late for work this morning due to this fault. We both work for the ambulance service and because of the fault a front line ambulance was unmanned until we got there."More than 50m iPhones have been sold since 2007.
I was delighted to discover (Letters, 30 December) that I'm not the only person with a collection ofMonopolysets. I don't want to turn this into some sort of competition, but I have 42, not including travel, junior and computer versions. However, my collection is limited by my rule of only buying sets for places I have been to. I too like playing in different languages, but I also like the way the concept is differently interpreted: the German version is based not on a real city, but on a fictional one with typical street names; I have two Japanese sets, one a simple translation/transliteration of the US version, the other where each property is a whole city (very few streets have names in Japan). I have Soviet era Russian and Georgian sets so flimsy that they barely made the journey home. The Swiss one is bilingual.Some sets revise the money to make the prices more realistic, usually by a factor of 10 or 100, but in one case multiplying everything by 40, giving some very weird denominations. However, I stopped collecting when the sponsored special editions started to come out. I once saw a version based on a Chicago shopping mall, and the Mayfair square in my Manchester version is the Grosvenor Hotel, Chester. The last version I bought was from my childhood home town, Liverpool – I had to see how it differed fromthe version my mate David and I devisedwhen we played it non-stop in the 1960s.Harold SomersManchester• I can't help Val Harrison with storage for her Monopoly sets, but I can offer some 35mm film canisters to safely store the little dogs, top hats, irons etc.Alan GavurinLondon
Star Wars: The Old RepublicPC, LucasArtsThe great New Hope? Certainly if pre-release lightsaber-rattling is anything to go by. An MMO that looks as exciting as it is immersive. Factions based on Republic and Sith, space combat and scores of different planets are promised, with the focus on a "cinematic" feel, while maintaining a colossal range of options, storylines and interactions – love interests included.Gemma ClarkeBatman: Arkham CityXbox 360, PS3, PC, Warner BrosNo room in the madhouse? Why not relocate the criminally insane downtown? This is the ominous backdrop to Arkham City, the bigger, badder and even darker follow-up toBatman: Arkham Asylum, last year's Bafta Game of the Year. Still not convinced? It will have lashings of extra Catwoman.Serge PenningsLittle Big Planet 2PS3, SonyTo deliver more tools, more tricks, and more levels designed by more absurdly talented … Well, everybody. Sackboy returns in the New Year to taunt non-PS3 owners with his exclusive sociability. It is unusual for something so cute to be so cool, or so praiseworthy to be so playable. Perfect.SPPortal 2Xbox 360, PS3, PC, EASequel to the most inventive, disarmingly involving title of recent times sees both player and artificial intelligence GLaDOS reawakened in an Aperture Science facility that has fallen into disrepair. Including two-player co-op, this mixture of puzzles and plot cannot come soon enough. Developers claim there will be no cake. Which may be a lie.Giles RichardsDeus Ex: Human RevolutionXbox 360, PS3, PC, Square EnixThe third outing for RPG-shooterDeus Exis set 25 years before the original, where biomechanical augmentations precede the nanotech central to the original. Branching plot lines based on player choice mix with cyberpunk and renaissance themes underscored by a sense of ambiguity and conspiracy that will be maintained until the final moments, insists game director Jean-Francois Dugas.GRThe Legend of Zelda:  Skyward SwordWii, NintendoHugely anticipated prequel toOcarina of Time, which sees Link living among the clouds of Skyloft before the titularSkyward Swordleads him to adventure on the land below. Utilising the MotionPlus controller for precise attacks, and complex object-and-character interactions in puzzles, we're also promised a new Beetle gizmo for scouting areas by air and collecting items.Felix AtkinDuke Nukem ForeverXbox 360, PS3, PC, 2KFingers crossed, after 13 years in development hell, 2011 should finally see the return of the dook – ready to rip off alien heads and "shit down their necks". A standard but terrific fun shooter of its day, thesebons motsand the mix of cartoonish ultra-violence and dark humour are long overdue a comeback.Toby MosesTotal War: Shogun 2PC, SegaTotal Warhas rightly become a dominant force in the strategy genre, with jaw-dropping visuals backed by absorbingly in-depth gameplay, andShogun 2offers a return to the series' roots in feudal 16th-century Japan. Promising up to 56,000 troops in a single battle, and a choice of nine factions, armchair warlords should flex their mouse fingers now.TMJourneyPS3, thatgamecompanySanta Monica'sthatgamecompanyapproaches games very differently  from other developers, and its latest venture is no exception, promising a new kind of online experience. The focus is on gesture-based communication rather than conflict between players as they explore a vast and ethereally beautiful desert landscape.Chris SchillingLA NoireXbox 360, PS3, RockstarFrom the publishing house responsible for the mightyGrand Theft Auto,LA Noireis a crime thriller set in the underworld of 1940s Los Angeles. Unsurprisingly drawing on postwar film noir for inspiration in both content and style, this murder-mystery adventure promises much. If Rockstar delivers it will be an absolute standout.Will FreemanDeathsmilesXbox 360, Rising StarA port of an obscure Japanese arcade release,Deathsmilesis the first full boxed game from cult developer Cave to make it to the UK, delivering a frenzied dose of 2D shoot 'em up action that fell out of favour in the west too long ago. Its eerie setting will delight fans of Tim Burton films.WF
With a press conference expected this month on the 3D version of Nintendo's handheld DS series, it seems we'll soon find out  when the company plans to launch its portable console here (end of February in Japan). But regardless of when it arrives, it is likely to be 2011's must-have gadget.The 3DS has vastly superior graphics to its predecessor, even before you take into consideration the glasses-free 3D effect which can be adjusted at any time via a slider next to the top screen. An analogue nub – similar to that of the PSP, though markedly superior – and the inbuilt accelerometer and gyroscope for tilt-based play offer a range of control options no other handheld can match.Apart from its qualities as a gaming device, it's the first truly mass-market piece of 3D technology, and so it should be no surprise that film companies are lining up to make their movies available on 3DS. The console will be backwards compatible, meaning that all existing DS titles are supported, while Nintendo's Virtual Console service will offer the best retro games from the Game Boy era.Plenty of publishers have confirmed their support for the 3DS, and Nintendo has reiterated its desire to appeal to the core gamer as well as more casual players, with franchises like Resident Evil and Metal Gear Solid joining Mario and Nintendogs to offer a wider variety of software. Early pre-ordering would be prudent: even with a rumoured price tag of £250, the 3DS won't stay on the shelves for long.
The StreetsMike Skinner is counting down the days, hours, minutes and seconds to the last album he's going to put out under The Streets band name is released, but he's already moved on. Caught in an artistic stupor, he wrote on his site that he was just going to watch James Bond DVDs and try not to think about "the throbbing sensation engorging my inner soul". In the same blog entry Skinner launched a competition: the first piece of artwork someone tweeted him would be the front cover of his next album and the first piece of audio he was sent would form the background to a new song. He's all for experiments like this and is currently using Twitter like no other artist. He doesn't post on the service himself, but instead uses people's messages and questions to kick off songs and ideas which he posts as short "youstube" videos. It's brilliant, unpretentious, immediate and amusing.Things MagazineThings Magazine.Things began as an offline print publication put together by a group of writers and historians from the Victoria &amp; Albert Museum and Royal College Of Art. Since the magazine went from bi-annual to "just occasional", their blog has become their main outlet, with their links on architecture, art, fashion, music and travel making it one of the best link blogs out there. A particular area of expertise is their rooting out of great Flickr collections – from sets of baseball cards to "interesting roadscapes" – and the championing of specialist sites (like The Happy Pontist, which is dedicated to British bridge design).Blog roll: TravelThe Titanic Awards.The Titanic AwardsCelebrating dubious achievements in tourism from the world's worst toilet to the most embarrassing travel insurance claim.TroylandHome to an impressive collection of airline bags, Thai culinary curiosities and popular Eastern European signage.World HumPortal curating travel stories, videos, slide shows, audio, tips and book recommendations.JetSettaQuirky travel delights including prisons converted into hotels, a Hello Kitty theme park and the best airports to get stuck in.Roadside PeekOld motels, bowling alleys, drive-in theatres, neon signs, tiki villages and other faded treasures of roadside America.What we learned on the web this weekArgos 1985.How muchstuff cost in 1985Where tocombine town planning and musicThe chancesof sex on Mars seem slimThe besteaster eggs hidden in famous albumsTron Guyapproves of Tron: LegacyFacebook's secretis outRefresh yourvirtual image with catsThe 15most expensive toys ever bought on eBayHow notto apologise
With the last cigarette ash of 2010 still cooling on the carpet, it's time to look towards the incipient glories of this year's triple-A games, which are as riddled as ever with familiar franchises, albeit ones it would be churlish not to be excited about …LittleBigPlanet 2, PlayStation 3A cute platform game with extremely realistic physics and also, more importantly, the world's most consumer-friendly game-creation engine. Play meets social engineering in what promises to be a beautifully realised piece of partly-DIY entertainment.SCEE, due JanDuke Nukem Forever, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360After an almost impossibly tortured 13-year development process, Duke Nukem, a throwback to a simpler age of first-person shooters, is coming back this year. Expect a very large helping of cheesy one-liners, porcine enemies and puerile humour.2K Games, release TBAGears of War 3, Xbox 360More gun-wielding muscle men, this time in pursuit of similarly hefty insectoid enemies, the Locust. Like Halo, Gears Of War is a franchise that inspires suitably obsessed fans to queue outside videogame shops at midnight. So, quite good then.Microsoft, due NovPortal 2, PC &amp; Xbox 360Waking from stasis in the ruins of the Aperture Laboratory, you inadvertently awaken the GLaDOS artificial intelligence, which merrily begins performing all new physics-based "tests" on you. Featuring wry humour and the world's most ingenious puzzles.Valve, due 22 AprBrink, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360A dystopian future in which the Earth is entirely flooded and mankind's bedraggled remnants live on an overcrowded ark, teetering on the edge of civil war. Promising deep multi-player options with its free-running and shooting-based gameplay.Bethesda, due AprBatman: Arkham City, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Taking place after the events of the deservedly Bafta-winning Arkham Asylum, Batman is due to return for some new gadget-enabled non-lethal baddie-punching, this time against Two-Face, Harley Quinn, Calendar Man, the  Riddler and the Joker.Warner Bros, due AutumnCrysis 2, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360It's 2033 and New York has been evacuated following an alien invasion, leaving you (and your stolen "nanosuit") to shoot your way out. Like its predecessors, there will be plenty of opportunities to set traps and ambushes, this time in a decaying urban sprawl.Electronic Arts, due MarTest Drive Unlimited 2, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360The original Test Drive Unlimited successfully blended driving with mechanics previously reserved for massively multiplayer online games. It's reasonably similar-looking sequel returns to the Hawaiian island of Oahu for further mildly sociable racing antics.Atari, due 11 FebDeus Ex: Human Revolution, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Acting as prequel to the first two Deus Ex games provides Human Revolution with a world of mechanical body augmentation and cyberpunkmise en scène. Its devotion to Byzantine plotting and global conspiracies naturally remains unchanged.Square Enix, due SpringThe Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword, WiiHero Link this time finds himself in the cloud-surfing world of Skyloft, which in combination with the dark lands below provides the setting for a game that looks like a living painting and promises interesting use of the Wii remote in fights and spell casting.Nintendo, release TBA
My girlfriend is not interested in cars. It's not that she doesn't like them, she's simply oblivious to them. I've only ever known two to make any impression on her. The first was&nbsp;the cute new Fiat 500. "I&nbsp;want one, get me one," was her response on first seeing it, knowing that it would never happen. The other is&nbsp;this one: "Hmmm, quite nice," she says.It may sound like faint praise, but if the people at Peugeot knew my girlfriend, they'd be whooping and haut-cinqing and cracking open the&nbsp;Bollinger. "Zut alors, we did it, with our new car we 'ave really made an impression on 'er!" Because&nbsp;that's how the people at Peugeot speak.The only disappointment is the front, which looks like any other Peugeot, but otherwise the RCZ is very striking. It looks like a concept car, which is pretty much what it is. Normally a car will go through a&nbsp;big dulling-down process between appearing as an idea at a motor show and turning up on the road, but this one has remained remarkably true to the original sparkle in the designers' eyes.Yes, it does look a little bit like an Audi TT. But look again; it's actually a much more interesting design. I'm thinking about those aluminium roof arches; and the riplet along the side, like a little tidal bore; and, best of all, its double-bubble roof that looks like the back of someone you might admire at the gym – not in a pervy way, in an appreciative way. And obviously TTs are driven by tossers, whereas I think it might be acceptable to have one of these. Cheaper as well.It's nice inside, too – cool, clean, we like the clock. Even the engine note is pleasant. Brrrrmm.To drive it won't set your world on fire, but the 200 HP petrol engine model I've got is quick enough, and it's assured on the corners, certainly the most fun a Peugeot's been for a&nbsp;long time.I like, and am more interested in, cars than my girlfriend is (that "is" is so important, to my relationship, I hope the subeditors don't remove it). But I rarely become emotionally attached to them (cars). I kind of have fallen for this one, though; it is, quite simply, very likable.So we do something nice in it; we drive – quite fast, but not very – to the seaside to buy fresh fish (plaice, if you're interested). We could have bought tons; the back seat may be a joke, but the boot is surprisingly cavernous. And it has a netty thing to keep things in place, which is handy; there's nothing worse than having flatfish slapping around in the back of the car when you're going round corners.Peugeot RCZ GT THP200Price£25,050Top speed146mphAcceleration0-62mph in 7.3 secondsAverage consumption40.9mpgCO2 emissions159g/kmEco rating5/10Bound forRenzo's Piano's officeIn a word(or three) "Hmmm, quite nice"
Don't bother with a lengthy ring-round of your friends to wish them a happy new year. Just leave one of them a message on their mobile and wait for everyone else to hack into it.A little premature, you might think. And you'd be right. But a pair of security researchers have told a Berlin conference how they were able to eavesdrop on mobile phone calls and texts made on any GSM network – used by around 80% of the world's phones – using four cheap phones, a laptop and some open source software.Karsten Nohl and Sylvain Munaut spent a year perfecting their eavesdropping technology, which begins by sending a "ghost" text message to a target phone that does not show up on the handset but enables the hacker to seize its unique identification number.The pair, who gave a live demonstration to the Chaos Computer Club Congress in Berlin this week, said the whole process takes about 20 seconds, enabling phone conversations and SMS messages to be recorded and decrypted."Any GSM call is fair game," Nohl told the BBC. ""Now there's a path from your telephone number to me finding you and listening to your calls. The whole way."Nohl said commercially available equipment capable of eavesdropping on other people's phone calls and text messages would previously have cost more than £35,000. He said the four Motorola phones used in their demonstration cost £9 each.He told the conference that while computing power had continued to evolve, GSM phone software had become out of date."This is all a 20-year-old infrastructure, with lots of private data and not a lot of security," Nohl said. "We want you to help phones go through the same kind of evolutionary steps that computers did in the 1990s."Nohl said there were no plans to make the eavesdropping kit available for others to use, but suggested it would not be difficult for a keen amateur to follow their lead. "I expect people to do it for the fun of doing it," he added.
Zimbabwe's president, Robert Mugabe,  has become the latest victim of online attacks by supporters of WikiLeaks, it was claimed today.Cyber activists said they had brought down government websites after Mugabe's wifesued a newspaper for publishing a WikiLeaks cablethat linked her with the alleged trade in illicit diamonds .TheZimbabwean government websitewas unavailable today, while thefinance ministry websitedisplayed a message saying it was under maintenance.Anonymous, a loose-knit group that has vowed to paralyse sites that act against WikiLeaks, said on its website: "We are targeting Mugabe and his regime in the Zanu-PF who have outlawed the free press and threaten to sue anyone publishing WikiLeaks."Grace Mugabe has launched a defamation suit against Zimbabwe's Standard newspaper for $15m (£9.5m) for publishing details released by WikiLeaks suggesting that she had gained "tremendous profits" from the trade in illicit diamonds.The offending article quotes from a US embassy cable that alleged she was among a group of elite Zimbabweans making "several hundred thousand dollars a month" from the sale of illegal stones mined in the politically sensitive Marange district. Grace Mugabe denies the allegations.Zimbabwe's attorney general has formed a commission to investigate the WikiLeaks cableswith a view to bring charges of treasonagainst anyone found to be colluding with "aggressive" foreign governments. This has been seen as a thinly veiled attempt to target the country's prime minister, Morgan Tsvangirai.Anonymous, a 1,000-strong group of activists, rallied on behalf of WikiLeaks after Amazon and other companies terminated business services with the website. It launchedOperation Paybackto give firms deemed hostile to WikiLeaks a "black eye".The websites of Visa, MasterCard, PayPal and the company that hosted WikiLeakswere all brought down after severing tieswith the whistleblowing site.TheSwedish prosecution office's websitewas also attacked after it pressed for the extradition of the WikiLeaks founder, Julian Assange, from the UK to face trial over alleged sexual offences.Anonymous's so-called "distributed denial of service" (DDoS) attacks, which bring down sites by overpowering them with repeated requests to load, are illegal in the UK.
The New Year's Eve edition of Chatterbox
Colour Nook ereader. Photo bysam_churchillon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNOOK eReading Devices Becomes Barnes &amp; Noble's Biggest Bestseller in Its History &gt;&gt; Barnes &amp; Noble"Millions of Nook ereading devices sold". Two million? "The line has become the company's biggest bestseller ever in its nearly 40-year history." Like Amazon, then.Uh-oh. Format war looming.Microsoft warns of Word attacks &gt;&gt; Computerworld"The bug in Microsoft Word 2002, 2003, 2007 and 2010 was patched Nov. 9 as part of Microsoft's monthly security update."Word 2008 and 2011 for the Mac have also been patched, but Microsoft has not yet issued a fix for the same flaw in the older Word 2004. The circulating attacks affect only Windows versions of the suite, however."Microsoft's muddled licensing for Office Web Apps « Tim Anderson's ITWriting"This approach to licensing makes no sense. In fact, I'm not sure it is even internally consistent. Part of the web app concept is that you could, if need be, walk up to a PC in an internet cafe, log in to SharePoint, and make a quick edit to a Word document. You are not going to ask the management 'is this machine correctly licensed for Office Web Apps?'"What if you are using Linux, or an Apple iPad (it almost works), or a RIM PlayBook, or some other device on which Office cannot be installed? These are scenarios where Office Web Apps is particularly useful; Microsoft cannot expect users to buy a license for desktop Office for machines which cannot run it."Chart of the day: iPad Magazine Sales Tank &gt;&gt; Business InsiderSelf-explanatory, but the raw numbers really are surprising.Fired by (Google's) algorithm &gt;&gt; DuckworksFilm maker Dylan Winter found one day that Google had decided to stop payments relating to his blog/newsletter/film streaming site. "I told my subscribers that I got some money if they visited the websites of those advertisers – all of whom were interested in selling stuff to sailors." Some of them clocked - too eagerly. Off to Google Jail for you.Peremptory? Reasonable? Google thought "your AdSense account poses a risk of generating invalid activity."Fired by a google algorithm. : WTF &gt;&gt; Reddit..and here's the discussion about what he did wrong: basically, telling people that their ad-clicking would make them money. Why is it meant to be a secret?Aaron's Twitter Viewer &gt;&gt; Aasron SwartzGive it a Twitter status ID, and it will give you the whole conversation around it. Simple, marvellous.BT UK Race to Infinity Superfast 40Mbps Broadband Campaign Coming to an End &gt;&gt; ISPreview UKPeople in Whitchurch and Innerleithen advised to head to their browsers in the vote-off.No electricity was imported during the Big Freeze &gt;&gt; The Scotland CourierIntriguing: Scotland is a net exporter of energy (possibly because it's got more power stations per person than England), and generates 27.4% of its energy from renewable sources. But wind energy didn't perform well during the cold snap...You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Gawker was made aware two years ago of flaws in its password encryption system, and promised users it would "improve" it - but did not, which made it easier for its system to be hacked earlier this year.The flaw meant that only the first eight characters of any password were used and encrypted; any more were ignored. That put a limit on the security that the encryption could offer.In December, theGawker Media database of 1.3m usernames and passwords was released onlineby the hacking group Gnosis, who had attacked the site in revenge for its taunting of the 4Chan message board.The hackers were able to decode at least 188,000 of the passwords, including that of the sites' chief executive and founder Nick Denton, because of the weakness.Some of the passwords were subsequently used for a spam attack on Twitter, and users were advised to change their passwords on other sites as protection.Bryan Campbell, a Gawker user,alerted the companyto the weakness on its GetSatisfaction feedback site in November 2008."I have discovered a serious flaw in your logon process," Campbell wrote. "When logging in, I have a alpha numeric password, EVEN when I drop the numerical part of it, it still authenticates me, with just the alpha part. Big worry."Another user pointed out the problem too.Gawker's technical team responded: "Thanks for letting us know about this. We realized we have an 8-character limit on passwords. We will be improving this in the future."But the "improvement" did not transpire: the recent hack into Gawker's system demonstrated that it only used 8-character passwords, and that anything more than that was simply dropped - precisely as Campbell had warned. Campbell says was unaffected by the hack because he had stopped using the site after discovering the flaw.The Guardian has been told by sources close to Gnosis thatthe hackers first broke into Gawker's content management system (CMS) six months ago, and that they soon had free rein of the system and used the passwords they gleaned to break into other external systems used by Denton and the Gawker staff.
What's the best way to record streamed content including, for example, video services such as iPlayer and YouTube?AnonymousYouTube and BBC iPlayer videos are actually digital video files, so generally it's better to download them rather than capture them. With YouTube videos, the whole file is usually held in the browser's cache folder – Temporary Internet Files, in the case of Microsoft's Internet Explorer. You can copy the file out of there and rename it, but the folder is hidden and you would have to ignore Windows' security warnings. However, it's probably better to use a download site such asKeepvid.com. This allows you to download a higher-resolution MP4 movie rather than the Adobe Flash video (flv) usually used for streaming. There are lots ofYouTube downloaders, and most online options require you to run a Java applet.These websites are not restricted to YouTube videos. For example, Keepvid can also download videos from Facebook, Google Video, Vimeo, Metacafe, Dailymotion, TED and other sites.The iPlayer is a trickier proposition because the BBC usually protects its content. Until recently, there was a get-out due to the intentionally-crippled video capabilities of the Apple iPhone, which is unable to play videos in very widely used formats such as Adobe Flash and Windows Media Video. People with different operating systems could therefore use a program such as iPlayer Downloader (ipdl) and pretend to be an iPhone to download an MP4 video file. However, earlier this month, the BBC changed its servers and it now requires the device to providean Apple-signed digital certificatebefore it will connect.At the moment, it's not clear how many of the iPlayer download programs will continue to work or will find workarounds: you can tell us about working systems in the comments section. However, it's still very easy to record the broadcast versions of TV programmes and upload the resulting files to file-sharing sites. People did this before the iPlayer arrived, and they'll still be doing it after its demise.With a "live stream" such as a webcast, there is no file to download, just a continuous stream of bits. When they arrive, these bits are written to a (hidden) buffer area on the PC's hard drive, to smooth out variations in the internet's speed. The trick is to save the streamed data as a file, using a program such as StreamTransport or Streambox VCR. Videohelp hasa list of stream recordersthat you can try.Stream recorders need to capture the actual stream, which will often be from an RTSP (Real-Time Streaming Protocol) or MMS (Microsoft Media Services) or similar address, which is not the same as the web page's address. If you can't find the stream's source address,URL Snooper, a free (donationware) program for Windows, will usually do the job.Some companies are now using DRM (digital rights management) encryption and making it harder to capture streams. With Microsoft Silverlight, for example, you can stream the video separately from the audio, and use bitstreams that vary dynamically in response to internet conditions. Silverlight also closes and re-opens streams to really mess up your stream recorder.On the other hand, Microsoft's Windows Media Encoder 9 and similar programs can be used to record anything that happens on a PC's screen, and most are very easy to use: seeGetting Started with Screen Capture Using Windows Media Encoder. Ultimately, anything that can be displayed on a PC screen can be captured in one way or another, even if it's by taking a "TV out" signal to an external video recorder. You might not get the full original quality, but most people only care about the content.
BlackBerry-maker Research In Motion has hit back at reports that it is ready to allow Indian authorities access to customers' highly-secure corporate emails.The Canadian manufacturer slammed as "false and technologically infeasible"an Economic Times of India reportwhich said that it will allow the Indian government access to all messages and emails sent by its 400,000 BlackBerry customers in the country. An internal home ministry memo, apparently seen by the paper, suggested that RIM would automatically make readable all BlackBerry communications, including encrypted enterprise emails.RIM quickly refuted the charges, saying that only an account holder has the necessary key to decrypt the messages. But it confirmed that security authorities and mobile operators will be granted "lawful access" to the popular BlackBerry Messenger chats.The high-end mobile maker isbattling to resolve a three-year dispute in the region, with countries including Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates (UAE) and India demanding access to BlackBerry communications, citing threats to national security. RIM has until 31 January to placate India's fears or risk being kicked out of the country. The region's mobile security fears were heightened by reports that the Mumbai terrorists used secure BlackBerrys to plot their attacks.India is an important market for RIM. Informa Telecoms &amp; Media forecast that more than 600,000 BlackBerrys will have been sold there this year, and that India's smartphone market will grow rapidly from 12m now to 40m by the end of 2015.A note sent internally in Delhi's home ministry, seen by the Economic Times, said: "In the final solution proposed by RIM, the decoding will be automatic. Intercepted and decoded data will not travel out of India. RIM has proposed to install [network data analysis systems] in India. In the final solution, intercepted and decoded data will travel between service providers and RIM India."RIM reiterated that it cannot aid access to the highly-secure enterprise emails – largely used by businesses and high-ranking civil servants – because only the account holder has the necessary key to decrypt the messages. "This [media report] is both false and technologically infeasible," a RIM spokesman said. "There will be no change to the security model of BlackBerry Enterprise Service."The company added that any "lawful access" negotiations would abide byfour principles: that it was legal, that there would be "no greater access" to BlackBerry services than other services, that there would be no changes in the security for Enterprise customers, and it would not make "specific deals for specific customers".If governments gain access to the content of BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) chats, popular among younger BlackBerry owners, it could have far-reaching consequences in neighbouring countries. In the UAE, which is also likely to push for similar levels of access to India, BBM chats are used as an effective broadcasting tool – adept at covertly spreading messages and "gossip".A university professor in the UAE, who wished to remain anonymous,told the Guardian in September: "Since virtually every Emirati aged 17 to 40 owns a BlackBerry and uses the messenger feature constantly, [reports of UAE access to BBM messages] has been of great concern to them."I'd guess that around 30% accept this is for security reasons, while the rest believe it to be, at the least, intrusive. The latter believe it to be a response to a number of fairly high-profile Emiratis being attacked, derided, vilified via the messenger broadcast service. Emiratis send many broadcasts daily, and gossip runs through the community like wildfire."
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Skype today stole a significant march on its competitors, including Apple FaceTime, by releasing its long-awaited video calling app for the iPhone and iPod Touch for both Wi-Fi and 3G connections.Owners of Apple's iPhone 4, 3GS and the iPod Touch (4thGen) can now make free Skype-to-Skype video calls – just six months after Apple announced its own play into the internet telephony market.Skype video calling app for the iPhone becomes a reality – but what do the operators make of it?Although mobile video calling has been around since about 2003, its uptake hasremained relatively nicheand limited tech-savvy families rather than teenagers (texting) or video conferences. But Skype has long made clear its intention to bring mobile video calling to the masses – and the smartphone boom of recent years has made that prospect look increasingly likely."With video calling representing approximately 40% of all Skype-to-Skype minutes for the first six months of 2010, our users have been eager to get Skype video calling on their mobile phones," Neil Stevens, general manager of Skype's consumer business, said today.Skype's new app will dampen the appeal of Apple's own FaceTime video calling function, which was launched alongside the iPhone 4 in June. Apple devoted its customary "One more thing…" announcement to FaceTime and has since spent a pretty penny marketing it as the iPhone 4's unique selling point. However, its use is restricted to iPhone 4 owners who are both on Wi-Fi connections at the time of the call.Steve Jobs admitted at the time that Apple would "need to work a little bit with carriers" before callers could use FaceTime on mobile data connections increasingly under strain from smartphone uptake.But for its latest release, Skype appears to have placated mobile operators, many of which – including Vodafone and Orange – arecalling for data-intensive sites to help pay for network upgradesas demand for mobile connectivity increases. The demands, which would breach the broad principle of net neutrality, would likely be sternly resisted by Skype, which earlier this month called the UK "one of the most restrictive countries in the world" when it came to accessing the mobile internet."UK citizens face restrictions for over-charging - depending on operators - on uses of the internet such as voice over IP, audio, video, streaming, peer-to-peer. And this has nothing to do with the need to manage traffic for technical reasons in times of congestion to improve consumer experience," Jean-Jacques Sahel, Skype's lead government relations head, told the Guardian this month.The average minute-long Skype mobile video call uses approximately 600kbps of data, which will count against each callers' monthly tariff, the company said today. For comparison,a brief test of FaceTime's 3G data usageon a jailbroken iPhone 4 in August showed it using around 3MB of data in a minute – equating to around three hours of calling time a month on the average 500MB tariff.Skype recommends using video calling on a "strong Wi-Fi connection" for "best quality" and, presumably, so callers don't get any nasty surprises when the monthly bill comes through. "The quality of the video you send and receive from your iPhone will depend upon the quality and bandwidth available on the WiFi or 3G network you are connected to. For best results, make sure you have nothing else running that might use up your bandwidth," says the FAQ accidentally published – and quickly deleted –on the official Skype site over Christmas.The cameraless iPad and iPod Touch (3rdGen) will be able to receive video calls from launch. The second-generation iPad – rumoured for a release in the first half of 2011 – isexpected to include front-and-rear-facing cameras, which would enable two-way video calls.Calls can also be made between the Skype for iPhone app and desktops including Skype for Windows 4.2 and above, Skype for Mac 2.8 and above, Skype for Linux and ASUS Videophone
The robots are coming. The second decade of the 21st century will see the rise of a mechanised army that will revolutionise private and public life just as radically as the internet and social media have shaken up the past 10 years. Or so says Marina Gorbis, futurologist and head of Californian thinktank The Institute for the Future.The IFTF is one of the world's most venerable thinktanks and has been plotting the course of the future for corporate and government clients since it was spun off from the RAND Corporation in 1968.Gorbis says robots will increasingly dominate everything from the way we fight wars to our work lives and even how we organise our kitchens.Robots are likely to prompt a political storm to equal the row over immigration as they increasingly replace workers, says Gorbis. But it's not all bad news. "When IBM's Deep Blue became the first computer to beat chess grand master Gary Kasparov people said that's it, computers are smarter than people," she says. "But it didn't mean that at all. It means they are processing things faster not that they are thinking better." Working together she believes robots and humans will be able to create a world of new possibilities impossible before our new industrial revolution.Gorbis says the robots are already here. The US military is backing the development of a four legged mechanical pack-carrying robot, called the BigDogs. Guided by its own sensors BigDog can navigate treacherous terrain carrying 150kg on its back. In the air robot drones are stalking targets in Afghanistan, remote controlled helicopters are ferrying supplies.Military technology from the Roman road to the internet has a habit of hitting the mainstream, and robots are already spreading their influence. Robots may soon do building work. The University of Southern California has developed a system called Contour Crafting that allows machines to construct buildings in layers guided by computers. The system can reduce construction times and costs by 75%, according to USC.In South Korea robots assist teachers in language classes, repeating words and phrases over and over and assessing how well they are parroted back. Google is working on cars that drive themselves. "What is that other than a robot," says Gorbis. Amazon and shoe retailer Zappos' huge warehouses are organised by an army of squat orange robots designed by Kiva Systems.Inevitably the rise of the robots will put people out of work. Gorbis believes that this and other trends will mean unemployment will remain around 10% in many parts of the developed world over the coming years."We are in transition. It is similar to when we mechanised agriculture. After that we went through a period of high unemployment as people transitioned to new kinds of jobs. People learned to do other things," she says.There is potential for a huge backlash. "But once a technology is invented, it is very rare that it disappears. You can delay the introduction but it is going to be used. If someone can produce something cheaper and faster, you are competing in that environment."Robots get a bad press. With a few cute exceptions the robot has been an evil character in movies going back to Fritz Lang's Metropolis in 1927. In Japan and Korea, where many of the great robot innovators are likely to come from, attitudes are more positive.Gorbis says there had been some speculation that the Japanese were more attuned to robots because they would rather mechanise than import foreign labour. "I'm not sure that's true. Whatever the case, there is a fascination with technology. And more political support. In a small aging population perhaps of necessity you think of machines as your labour force," she says.We too are likely to become more robotic, she believes. "We have been modifying ourselves with technology forever, with eyeglasses, cochlear implants. We are going to see more of that. Sensors are going to be on our bodies, in our bodies letting us and others know what we are doing, what is going on with our health. All kinds of applications we haven't even thought of yet."Gorbis says she is often asked if the future is arriving faster than ever. "I'm not sure that it is," she says. "We know more, we have access to more information but if you lived during the period of electrification or the building of railroads, I'm sure you really felt the pace of change too. It's all relative."With all this information being bombarded at us it so no wonder that people worry, she said. "I feel schizophrenic myself. Half the time I feel really depressed when I look at say climate change or the potential to misuse technology. But then I get really excited about how we are reinventing ourselves through technology."• This article was amended on 11 January 2011. The original said that the University of South Carolina has developed a system called Contour Crafting. This has been corrected.
London bus. Photo byE01.Some rights reserved.A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDon't get too excited about speed camera data just yet &gt;&gt; David Higgerson"One of the most frustrating and bizarre Freedom of Information request standoffs could be about to come to an end after the Government said more data about speed cameras must be released."The publication date isn't until April though. Set the alarm clocks...Apple's smart move: Buy Netflix, says analyst &gt;&gt; Computerworld"Apple's TV and movie rental business is already a tenth that of Netflix's, according to estimates by an industry analyst. "But rather than duke it out with Netflix, Apple's smart move would be to pay $12 billion to acquire its partner and rival, said Brian Marshall of Gleacher &amp; Co."Remind us how many times Apple has done something that an analyst said it should do?Three stories of change from the International Open Data Hackathon &gt;&gt; eaves.caAnd they're good ones.Facebook Overthrows Yahoo To Become World's Third Largest Website &gt;&gt; TechcrunchAs measured by ComScore; over the past year it shows Yahoo's visitor numbers as flat (around 630m per month) and Facebook's growing (to 648m). Third in line behind Microsoft (869m) and Google (970m). How long before it takes over from Microsoft?London buses flowprint &gt;&gt; UrbagramNeat visualisation using TfL bus movement data to show how traffic flows in London (at least if you're a bus). Flash, but includes a link to a .mov version (57MB).Peter Vesterbacka, Maker of Angry Birds Talks about the Birds, Apple, Android, Nokia, and Palm/HP  &gt;&gt; Technmarketing"Apple will be the number one platform for a long time from a developer perspective, they have gotten so many things right. And they know what they are doing and they call the shots. Android is growing, but it's also growing complexity at the same time. Device fragmentation not the issue, but rather the fragmentation of the ecosystem. So many different shops, so many different models. The carriers messing with the experience again. Open but not really open, a very Google centric ecosystem. And paid content just doesn't work on Android."Besides Apple and Google, it will be interesting to see how long it will take for Nokia to get their act together. MeeGo is clearly the future there, remains to be seen how big and how soon. HP-Palm webOS is a really cool OS and has been a pleasure developing for that one, but the volume is irrelevant for the time being. Everything else is more or less "interesting" right now, ie no real business to be had, at least not yet."5 Interesting Facts About Android &gt;&gt; Androided Me!Indeed, they are interesting. You might know them already, but it's good to have knowledge reinforced.The Unbearable Inevitability of Being Android, 1995 &gt;&gt; counternotionsVery insightful: "Apple sells emotional experiences. The price is what users pay to be delighted by Apple's stream of innovations and to be free of the lowest common denominator burdens and the pervasive harvesting of their personal info. "Google sells eyeballs. To be more precise, the clickstream attached to those eyeballs. Thus scale, indeed dominance, is absolutely crucial to Google's model."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Nicolas Sarkozy's war on illegal downloading has begun in earnest, with the state internet surveillance body dubbed "Big Brother" warning more than 100,000 French internet-users that they have been caught accessing pirate material.Thecontroversial anti-piracy law is one of Sarkozy's pet projects, backed by his singer wife, Carla Bruni-Sarkozy. The couple argue that artists must be protected from the nation's massive illegal download culture – France is thought to be the world number one in illegally accessing film and music online.The internet policing system, known under its acronym Hadopi, investigates specific incidents of illegal downloading reported by music and film companies. It obtains web-users' details from internet service providers and issues a series of warnings by email and letter. Repeat offenders risk one month's suspension from all internet access. Those accused of counterfeiting can be fined and cut off from the internet for one year. At least 100,000 warning emails have been sent since early October.The French left has attacked the law as draconian and against civil liberties. But it is also criticised as ineffective and out of date. The law targets peer-to-peer sites, but not streaming and direct download sites. A study by the University of Rennes earlier this year reported an increase in illegal downloading as web-users turned to new ways of accessing material not covered by the law.US TV series, such as Grey's Anatomy and House which are increasingly popular in France, are thought to be a key target of illegal downloads.One magistrate working for the internet surveillance body this week revealed to Le Figaro the pleading letters from illegal downloaders who had received warnings. "It's true, I downloaded an episode of this [unnamed] series. I had no choice, I'd followed the whole season, I was hooked … I won't do it again, but please just let me download the last episode of the series," wrote one man, who had in fact been spotted downloading music.One woman – told she had illegally downloaded music by the former tennis-star turned singer Yannick Noah – wrote: "I hate that singer. When he played tennis I quite liked him, but his music gets on my nerves." She said an advert flickering across her screen had made her download a track without realising.One young man said he set his alarm for 6am to download music believing the surveillance system wouldn't be up and running before dawn.
Apple and five other companies have been accused of allowing applications on the iPhone and iPad to transmit users' personal information to advertising networks without consent, in a legal complaint filed in the US.The firm filing the complaint on behalf of two groups of Apple users says it could also be levelled against Google over its Android mobile operating system for the same reasons.The complaint is seeking "class action" status. It was filed on 23 December in the US federal court in San Jose, California,according to Bloomberg.The lawsuit notes that iPhones and iPads contain unique identifying elements – known as the Unique Device Identifier, or "UDID" – which let advertising networks to track what applications users download, how frequently they're used and for how long. Users cannot block the transmission of the UDID, a 40-character string that uniquely identifies each device."Some apps are also selling additional information to ad networks, including users' location, age, gender, income, ethnicity, sexual orientation and political views," the lawsuit, filed on behalf of Jonathan Lalo of Los Angeles County, alleges.The issue of how much data about individual users is leaked to the creators of apps has become a hot topic in recent months following investigations which suggested that some gather more data than they strictly require to operate without notifying the user or providing any way to monitor what is sent.Apple has come under the spotlight, but a number of applications for Google's Android have also been identified as potentially infringing on privacy.Apple's iOS – for the iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad – and Google's Android are used in millions of mobile devices around the world. Iin the third quarter of 2010, Apple had about 17% of the global smartphone market, and Android roughly 25%, according to the research group Gartner.Lalo's suit identifies applications such as Pandora, Paper Toss, the Weather Channel and Dictionary.com, and names them as defendants along with Apple. Lalo is represented by Scott Kamber and Avi Kreitenberg of KamberLaw LLC in New York.A similar suit filed by four people on the same day calls Apple's actions "an intrusive tracking scheme" and calls Apple's failure to keep the apps out of the store and realise that they breach privacy as "aiding and abetting" their privacy invasion.Apple claims it reviews all applications on its App Store and doesn't allow them to transmit user data without customer permission, according to Lalo's complaint. Apple's rules for applications says: "Apps cannot transmit data about a user without obtaining the user's prior permission and providing the user with access to information about how and where the data will be used."The lawsuit claims that the transmission of personal information is a violation of federal computer fraud and privacy laws, and seeks class-action status for Apple customers who downloaded an application on their iPhone or iPad between 1 December 2008, and last week.However, analysts were unfazed. Global Equities Research analyst Trip Chowdhrytold Reutersthe lawsuits would have little impact on investors."If this were a major issue, all web browsers would have to shut down and there would not be any advertising on the internet," Chowdhry said.Apple had not responded to requests for comment at press time.
Amazon says that itsKindle 3 ebook reader has become the site's best-selling productever, and that on Christmas Day more people activated new Kindles, downloaded Kindle apps and bought ebooks than on any previous day.The company announced that sales of the Kindle 3 had overtaken the previous record holder, the book of Harry Potter and The Deathly Hallows, released in July 2007. That had seen 1m pre-orders online before it was published, and has sold more than 40m copies worldwide – though it is unknown what proportion would have been sold through Amazon.The company has not released sales figures for the Kindle, though sources within the company told Bloomberg this month that it will have sold about 8m Kindles by the end of this year. Bloomberg said the figures come from "two people who are aware of the company's sales projections".Jeff Bezos, Amazon founder and chief executive, said: "We're seeing that many of the people who are buying Kindles also own an LCD tablet [referring to devices such as Apple's iPad], released in April … Customers report using their LCD tablets for games, movies and web browsing, and their Kindles for reading sessions ... Kindle's $139 price point is a key factor – it's low enough that people don't have to choose."The online retailer has always been reluctant to give a figure for how many Kindles have been sold, possibly because it does not want it to be compared with those from consumer electronics companies such as Apple and Sony. But the numbers provided are about 60% higher than analysts' forecasts of about 5m Kindles this year.By contrast, Apple is expected to about 12m of its iPad tablets this year, having begun selling them in April.
A bug in the Windows version of the Skype internet telephony software used by half of all users caused the entire service to crash for roughly 24 hours on 22 and 23 December, its chief information officer says.In a blogpost, Lars Rabbe says that the problem began on the Wednesday at about 1600 GMT when some servers used for offline instant messaging overloaded, and began delaying their response to Skype users.That delay had a domino effect on a particular Windows version of Skype used by half of its global userbase, causing them to crash. That in turn meant that the entire network, which relies on "peer-to-peer" connections between users' PCs to route its internet voice and data traffic, began to fall apart.Older and newer versions of Skype were unaffected by the delay – but most people had not updated to the newest version, Rabbe said.Among the 50% of computers affected were between 25% and 30% of the "supernodes" that provide directory services and route a majority of the traffic for Skype, and which are essential to its overall functioning.Their failure then overloaded the rest of the network and the supernodes – resulting in the collapse of the service. "The initial crashes happened just before our usual daily peak-hour (1000 PST/1800 GMT), and very shortly after the initial crash, which resulted in traffic to the supernodes that was about 100 times what would normally be expected at that time of day," Rabbe wrote.That led to a disastrous feedback loop, as protective mechanisms on the supernodes meant that they shut down to protect themselves from excess traffic.The Skype team had to introduce thousands of "mega-supernodes" by hand in order to heal the network, which only recovered gradually as the new supernodes came back online.Barre said that Skype will look at better ways to provide automatic updates to users so they can be kept on the latest version, which should minimise the risk of such catastrophic bugs."We believe these measures will reduce the possibility of this type of failure occurring again," he wrote. "We are truly grateful to all of our users and humbled by your continued support."We know how much you rely on Skype, and we know that we fell short in both fulfilling your expectations and communicating with you during this incident. Lessons will be learned and we will use this as an opportunity to identify and introduce areas of improvement to our software."Facebookhad a similar problem in September, when the entire site went offline for about two-and-a-half hours due to technical problems with servers that sit in a "ring" around the central site. In the end the only way to restore connectivity was literally to switch off the systems and restart them.
Alan Wake(Remedy Entertainment, Xbox 360)This noir-esque "psychological action thriller" from Max Paynedeveloper Remedy emerged blinking into the sunlight after no lessthan five years of development and vast hype. But despite its inclusion in the Guardian's Top 20 Games of 2010, I felt that a mediocre game hid beneath its pretentious literary epidermis. Sure, it was atmospheric, scary and cinematic, but it didn't half rub your face in it with a smug sense of self-satisfaction. The fight scenes were repetitive, the hyper-addictive gameplay that made Max Payne so special was nowhere in evidence, and between action sections you were force-fed vast chunks of sludgy and cliché-ridden story in video or sometimes even text format. In trying too hard to be an interactive literary experience, it totally forgot that it was supposed to be a game. Or even fun.Alpha Protocol(Obsidian Entertainment, PC, Xbox 360, PS3)Ugly and generic to look at, and annoying to play, this RPG from the makers of Knights of the Old Republic II, Neverwinter Nights and Fallout: New Vegas completely failed to live up to its pedigree. The concept was unusual and interesting, and there were a few genuinely neat touches sprinkled around. Unfortunately, pretty much everything else about it let it down, especially the clunky combat and the ludicrous AI.APB: All Points Bulletin(Realtime Worlds, PC)Basically Grand Theft Auto, except online and massively multiplayer. How could any developer possibly screw that up? Well, APB, in planning since as early as 2005, and a long-time pipedream of GTA lead developer David Jones, comprehensively answered that question. The driving dynamics were appalling: buggy, unsatisfying and constantly irritating. Gunfights weren't much better, and while occasionally completing missions with big groups of friends could be satisfying, the gameplay mechanics hamstrung the experience. After a very poor public and critical response, APB was shut down in September, about three months after it was launched. It may reappear in 2011 as a free-to-play, but it is more likely that it has been flushed for good.Clash of the Titans(Game Republic, Xbox 360, PS3)Developer Game Republic pretty much went at the God of War franchise with tracing paper to make this. It is therefore a mystery to me how they managed to miss God of War's fun factor by a matter of miles. Combat was fiddly and complicated and repetitive and frankly terrible, the story felt like a child's My First Greek Myths And Legends book translated from the original Greek by someone who didn't speak Greek with no interest in Greek myths or legends, or writing of any kind, and the characters were blander than homeopathic soup.Dark Void(Airtight Games, PC, Xbox 360, PS3)This game had a very promising idea: a 1930s-era fighter pilot gets sucked into an alternative reality through the Bermuda Triangle and finds a jet pack. Unfortunately, everything about the execution of this sub-par shooter just lacked spark. It purloined bits from much better games – the jungle from Uncharted 2, the cover mechanism from Gears of War – but then clumsily ruined them all, amalgamating them into a single messy lump.Fighters Uncaged(AMA Studios, Xbox 360 Kinect)Remember all that fuss about Kinect changing the way we interact with games forever? Well, this lame beat-'em-up showed that we shouldn't always believe the marketing. Buggy, agonisingly slow to respond and unsatisfying when your movements finally translated to the screen, it was a total let-down. To add insult to considerable injury, it was also cursed with one of the worst soundtracks any game has ever had, and its lack of any multiplayer – a beat-'em-up without a multiplayer! – was the icing on the cowpat.Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 1(EA Bright Light Studio, PC, Xbox 360, PS3, Wii)A change of direction from the previous games led EA's Bright Light Studio to stray from its comfort zone, and it showed. Buggy, difficult to control and packed with side-missions that were poorly-disguised filler, its attempt to become more of a darker, combat-oriented game floundered helplessly on poor combat, worse duck-and-cover mechanics, and level design that it would be charitable to call uninspired. It doesn't help that there's also a Lego Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows coming out, which is probably going to blow this completely out of the water with all the usual Lego-y brilliance.Iron Man 2(Sega Studios San Fransisco, Xbox 360, PS3, Wii)This execrable game wins extra disappointment points for having two battle-suits on the box and then failing to provide a multiplayer: just an alternate suit to play the one-player mode with. Not that a two-player option would have rescued Iron Man 2. This charmless – in fact, spectacularly dreadful – movie tie-in actually managed to screw up in every category: controls, combat, movement, camera, graphics and story (despite a stellar cast of voice actors drafted in from the movie). A repulsor blast to the face would be preferable to ever encountering Iron Man 2 again.Saw II: Flesh and Blood(Zombie Studios, Xbox 360, PS3)After the first game, which was a sort of greyed-out and watered-down version of Arkham Asylum peppered with arbitrary quick-time sequences, the second did not have much to live up to. Somehow it still managed to disappoint. Elements that were even the slightest bit promising in the first game – the puzzles and the tense atmosphere – were washed away in a putrid flood of lazy design and cheap shock'n'gore. Saw II manages to make its predecessor appear almost competent in comparison.Sonic Free Riders(Sonic Team, Xbox 360 Kinect)Another launch title for the Kinect that let everyone down. This time it featured our favourite blue spiky flea-bitten ringworm-riddled woodland bug-eater and his friends riding hover-boards. This game doesn't really belong on the "disappointments" list because the last few titles in the series have been critically savaged and expectations were sub-zero. However, though we don't know why Microsoft decided despite universal disapproval that Free Riders was to be a launch game on the Kinect, we might at least have expected them to make it work properly. They didn't. Control was achieved more by luck and flailing than by positive activity on the part of the player, and the game was hilariously limited in scope.•Which have been your biggest gaming disappointments of the year? Let us know in the comments section and save other readers your plight!
Telltale was one of the first developers to crack a profitable model for episodic gaming, thanks to an inspired reboot of the Sam &amp; Max franchise. Now the same trick is applied to the far bigger property of Robert Zemeckis's movie trilogy, with five downloadable episodes to be released throughout 2011.Once again the genre is old-school point-&amp;-click, with every key location in Hill Valley needing to be explored and scoured for clues. Navigation is a matter of cursor keys or mouse, with places you can visit or objects you can retrieve marked as hotspots and NPCs to engage in multiple choice conversations. Sometimes you will not be able to leave a location until a puzzle is solved, but at other times you can wander round the pseudo 3D town working out how to make progress or which of the items in your limited inventory can be used. Luckily, you can also receive a maximum of three hints per puzzle.Thanks to working with Bob Gale, one of the movie's writers, the game provides a reasonably credible extension to Marty McFly's story, filled with in-jokes and cross references. The action kicks off a few months after the end of the third movie before whisking Marty back to the Prohibition Era to rescue Doc Brown and put history back in order ... again.Although the puzzles are plentiful, adventure fans will find them relatively easy to solve – not least by trial and error. It exposes fairly early on that the formula that worked so well before simply feels less effective here. Without Sam &amp; Max's surreal humour we're  left with a well plotted but an otherwise bland adventure that relies too much on lengthy cut-scenes to compensate for the strictly linear gameplay.Admittedly the dialogue is aided by a cast that includes Christopher Lloyd revisiting Doc Brown, while Marty and the rest are voiced by reasonable sound-alikes. However, the stylised likenesses and animations  are easily forgettable – especially for a younger audience now used to bigger and brasher animated heroes.Occasionally, Alan Silvestri's original score evokes some of the old excitement but it also emphasises that by sticking to the point &amp; click genre Telltale are looking like one trick ponies – especially when pacy arcade action is needed to evoke the adrenalin rush Zemeckis brought to the movies. It's nice to see such a rich franchise reinvented, but lets hope for more ambition and invention in the episodes that follow.• Game reviewed on a PC
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 25 DecemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (39)Wii (6)PC (2)72 (2)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (37)Wii (7)DS (6)133 (3)Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit(PG)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (42)Wii (4)PC (1)64 (4)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)115 (5)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)66 (6)Gran Turismo 5(3+)PS3 (100)57 (13)The Sims 3(12+)Xbox 360 (27)DS (23)PS3 (19)PC (15)228 (15)Kinect Sports(12+)Xbox 360 (100)79 (12)Michael Jackson: The Experience(12+)Wii (98)DS (1)PSP (0)410 (8)Medal Of Honor(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (44)10UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
Gawker was hacked early in December. Photo byDBreg2007on Flickr.Some rights reservedHackers had access to the gossip site Gawker's content management system (CMS) and password files for around six months, rather than the few days suggested by the company, the Guardian has learnt from sources connected to the break-in.That contradicts the indications given by Gawker in public statements, such as an email sent out on 17 December by Thomas Plunkett, Gawker's chief technology officer, in which he suggested that the hackers only had access "briefly" to the site: "Gawker Media servers and some company email accounts were compromised by hackers at some time during the last few weeks; the compromise was made public to us (and everyone else) this past weekend," Plunkett wrote in aninternal memo which was reposted on the Poynter.org website.Thehacking of Gawker and its associated sitesled to the usernames, email addresses and passwords of 1.3 million registered users of the sites being made available – among them, those for Gawker staff including its chief Nick Denton. The hackers discovered Denton had used the same password for Gawker and for other sites such as Campfire, used by his company to coordinate its work. That allowed them to access those sites and find sensitive details including chats between members of the company.Sources close to the hacking group Gnosis, which carried out the attack, have told the Guardian that they obtained access to Gawker's server by using a "local file inclusion" (LFI) weakness. Gawker has not previously said whether the access was via a weakness in the Gawker site, via a staff member's password, or some other means."The Gawker site LFI [flaw] was found about six months ago," a source close to, but not a member of, Gnosis told the Guardian. "The Campfire access came after the administrator database for the CMS was cracked."The Guardian asked Plunkett to respond to the claims. He declined to comment and said that the company would offer further clarification later.Gawker Media was targeted because Denton and the staff decided earlier this year to annoy denizens of 4Chan, the anarchic web forum. The members of Gnosis have their origins in 4Chan and the separate but related Anonymous group, but are not affiliated with them, and do not work on the same projects.The Guardian's sources insist that the Gnosis attack was not a short-term thing. "They didn't just crack it in a day, they spent a fair bit of time working on it and they had full access for at least a month. Mind you, when the database leak rumour was going around, Gawker publicly announced that they weren't compromised. Either they were lying to the public and trying to fix the hole, or they didn't even notice Gnosis in there – given the proper tools it's very easy to hide yourself on a Linux system."Once the Gnosis group gained access to the computer server's file system via the LFI weakness, they progressed through the site and examined the files that they found there, including the "Ganja" programs that run the content management system. They also sought out the "passwd" – password – file which they knew would contain information that would let them crack other sites in the Gawker network."The configuration file for their webserver (which is often in a predictable location) gave out clues as to the location of password files and the Ganja source code," the Guardian's source explained. "From here [Gnosis] audited Ganja and used the LFI exploit to retrieve more sensitive data. After auditing and finding exploits in Ganja they were able to achieve remote SSH access [secure shell login] to Gawker's servers, which were promptly backdoored [so that the hackers could enter them at any time without it being visible to the server's owners]. From this point they mostly had free rein of the network."The hackers were able to crack about 250,000 of the passwords, which had been encrypted using a system calledMD5DES, which usually poses a serious computational challenge to reverse. The task was made simpler because many people had used simple passwords such as "password" or "123456", which are especially vulnerable to a "dictionary attack" in which the encrypted password is compared to a standard set of words encrypted by the same method.Updated:corrected MD5 to DES. Confused with Mozilla, whichused MD5. Corrected "pwd" to "passwd" as targeted file.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Photo byJemima Gon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCan Martha teach the government not to think it's Google? &gt;&gt; Labour UncutFascinating insight from Tom Watson about life inside the Cabinet Office under the previous Labour administration. Such as: "During my time at the cabinet office, not a day went by where there wasn't a Jim Hacker moment. "The problem with Google, minister" said the very high up IT man "is that it doesn't find the pages we want people to read." His solution was for the government to develop it's own search algorithm in order to give citizens the information the government wanted them to find."I tried to put a stop to it of course, though I was never confident they actually did."And lots more, and thoughtful. Must-read.One million users and counting &gt;&gt; instagr.amHaving started on 8 October, the mobile photo sharing site already has 1m users, and shows no sign of slowing down. The question now: what next?RIM thought iPhone was impossible in 2007 &gt;&gt; Electronista"RIM in particular assumed from the start that smartphones would be outgrowths of its pagers and that there would never be enough battery life or wireless technology for more functions. It started growing beyond this view before the iPhone shipped, but the OS foundation until recently was based on the early assumption."Read more: http://www.electronista.com/articles/10/12/27/rim.thought.apple.was.lying.on.iphone.in.2007/#ixzz19RADHvJFMozilla accidentally publishes user IDs and passwords hashes &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityAbout 44,000 users' IDs and passwords leaked, but Mozilla's logs say only one person - the one who reported the fault - accessed the data."If you are a web site administrator/developer, are you still storing passwords using methods like Gawker (DES) or Mozilla (MD5)? We know they are broken and it is important to migrate away from these algorithms in case you have a database accidentally make its way outside of your organization."Mozilla made the right decision in 2009 to begin using a much more secure system (SHA-512 with per-user salts) moving forward, but in hindsight might have prompted all of their users to migrate to the more secure hash before this incident."A call for quality HTML5 demo markup &gt;&gt; Mozilla Hacks"Right now there are two things to get really excited about in HTML5: the richer, more meaningful semantics of new elements and the APIs that give us deep access into the workings of the browser and the operating system. The former allows us to build much richer interfaces and the latter allows us to build much more complex applications."All of this comes with the awesome of view source (or check in development tools) for debugging. You can advocate HTML5 by writing clean and useful markup. You can kill it by treating the markup as a second class citizen which is only there to serve the script."With examples. Read.US govt a big user of Amazon web services &gt;&gt; Scripting NewsInteresting point by Dave Winer: Amazon Web Services in its annual newsletter touts how the US government is putting more of its services onto Amazon. Was the dropping of Wikileaks so coincidental?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
You've all come to read about the Apple what? Photo byNational Library NZ on The Commonson Flickr.Some rights reservedRather than give you a potted version of how the year progressed, here's the articles and galleries that you chose to read in your thousands this year (according to our analytics system).Note that we've ignored "generic" pages (such as the Technology front page itself, which is the "most-read" for the entire year, because so many people start on it). That means that well-read pages such as theAsk Jack blog(officially, 13th for the year among articles and galleries) get left out.You might wonder too at the lack of games content in these lists. The reason for that: most people come to the Guardian's games coverage directly to theGames blog(officially, 4th most-read page) orGames page(7th most-read); if you combined those together then the "games" category would be the third most-read page (after the Technology page and the topmost article here).So without more ado let's look at the top 20articles.1:Apple tablet launch: live coverageSteve Jobs's January introduction of the "magical" product. Part of the interest no doubt sparked by the fact that so many people had contributed their own ideas about what it would be called and what size it would be - which, notably, were mostly correct, indicating the wisdom of the crowd in action.2:Apple WWDC liveblog: new iPhones and software - and the restRemind us again about how nobody's interested in Apple stories?3:Pac-Man 30th anniversary Google doodle turns homepage into gameRetro delights. If you want to play Google's Pac-Man it'sstill there.4:Apple iPhone 4: countdown to the press conferenceAka "antennagate", in which, as Charlie Brooker put it, we discovered that the iPhone is too advanced for the human hand. Free bumpers for all!5:iPad 'newspaper' created by Steve Jobs and Rupert MurdochThough not yet released.6:The Apple tablet: the experts' viewAhead of the iPad's launch (the name not yet being known), we rounded up the opinions of those who can be relied on to have reliable opinions. Interesting to read in retrospect.7:Can Apple's tablet do it again?A week ahead of the iPad's launch, I examined the key question: what the hell would a tablet from Apple look like, and what would you do with it? Again, interesting to read in retrospect (especially given that the guessed-at pricing is double what it turned out to be).8:LimeWire shut down by federal courtThe long-running saga involving the file-sharing software finally ended.9:Everything you need to know about the internetIt's surprising this wasn't more well-read, to be honest. Look!Everythingyou need to know!10:Online voyeurs flock to the random thrills of ChatrouletteOh, you shameful lot, flocking to the random thrills of articles about people flocking to the random thrills of online voyeurism.11:Call of Duty: Black Ops - reviewThe year's biggest game? Certainly in terms of readership.12:The 100 essential websites for 2010From the tail-end of 2009.13:Hello Kitty notebook PC gets bling from Swarovski crystalsActually from June 2007. If this notebook had sold as well as the article has been viewed, it would be a latter-day iPhone.14:How I became a Foursquare cyberstalkerThe darker side of location-based services.15:Does a Mac need anti-virus protection?The answer might seem obvious, but it led to an enormous debate.16:Apple iPhone 4: an object of rare beauty that leapfrogs the competitionStephen Fry in June gets just a teeny bit excited about the iPhone. Obviously, this was before anyone had thought to make phone calls while holding it in their left hand.17:Ricky Gervais quits 'pointless' TwitterFrom January. Twitter somehow stumbled on without him: by June it was up to 190m users andgrowing all over the world.18:How we learned to love PhotoshopTwenty years old, and now used as a verb (though never in a complimentary sense), to the dismay of Adobe, its owners.19:'Had it crashed? Or was it being sarcastic?' Charlie Brooker on the iPadTry comparing his reviewing style with Fry's.20:Microsoft sues Motorola over Android - and all the other mobile lawsuitsIncludes one of the ugliest graphics of all time (our famed "explosion in a spear factory"). Busy lawyers have long since made it out of date.And then we have theGalleries- picture-based entertainment, which often tell stories in ways that mere words cannot.1:Google Street View awards 2010Britain's best-loved streets, as voted by the public.2:iPad deconstructedWhat's inside that thing. A lot of it is batteries.3:When Photoshop can get you in troubleDisastrous Photoshop editing. Has to be seen to be disbelieved.4:Apple launches iPad tablet computerHow Steve Jobs showed off his new moneymaker, from the Yerba Buena Arts Center in San Francisco.5:CES 2010 in Las Vegas - in picturesThe year's biggest consumer electronics show has the year's biggest gallery, of 46 pictures. How many of the forecasts - or products - came to your home?6:In pictures: tablet computersAhead of the iPad launch, we looked at how the competition stacked up.7:From bricks to the iPhone: 25 years of the mobile phonesCan you believe that we've only been able to tell people we're on the train for a couple of decades? Here's what we used to do it with.8:Norman Rockwell, Saturday Evening Post stalwart, celebrated with GoogleQuite how Rockwell would have illustrated the Google generation must, sadly, be left to the imagination.9:The best technology moments in filmChosen by you, dear readers, and thus more accurate than any other galleries about the best technology moments in film found elsewhere.10:E3 2010: Gamesblog*s 15 most-anticipated gamesHow many of them did you buy?
All list features are flawed; the act of curation inevitably means that there will be glaring omissions. And as ourGuardian Top 20 games of the yearwere voted on by eight writers, there was also compromise to contend with.Many of you felt that Bayonetta and Bad Company 2 were the most heinous non-appearances, but they weren't the only titles to be left off the final list because not enough of us could agree on them. Our in-house music game fanatics were left completely unsatisfied. Jack Arnott stepped up for Def Jam Rapstar, while Sarah Ditum wanted SingStar on there. "I know this didn't have a big release or update this year," she says, "but I have played it LOADS so if we can accept it as a DLC thing, I think it deserves a slot on my list". I too would have liked to have seen more DLC in the list, most notably, the cruchingly tough platformer,Super Meat Boy, andTwister Pixel's amusing 2D platformer, Comic Jumper, which captured some of the irreverent wit of the Monkey island titles. Jack also hadLara Croft and the Guardian of Lighton his list, while Greg Howson namechecked the frenziedDeathspank. In the end, only LIMBO made it.Elsewhere, Mike Anderiesz showed rather catholic tastes, putting in a good word for both Starcraft 2 (another title many readers were amazed to see ignored) and Your Shape, Ubisoft's holistic health game. Greg Howson attempted a passionate argument forDivinity 2: Dragon Knight Saga. "It lacked the marketing budget of Fallout Vegas and Fable 3 but Divinity 2: Dragon Knight Saga was my RPG of 2010 and easily one of the games of the year," he insists. "Old fashioned exploration – no quest markers here – mixed with a surprisingly engrossing story made for a very enjoyable ride. It was pretty too despite the generally familiar fantasy styling. The combat was a little lifeless at times but veering off the beaten track to find a dungeon full of goodies never got tiring. Dragon Age 2 will have to go a long way to beat this one."Neil Davey wanted to see PES 11 included in the Top 20 rather than FIFA: "I'm really enjoying this version," he complains, "particularly the tactical set-up and tweaking. It's so obvious it makes you wonder what too them so long." Greg wasn't interested in football at all, instead putting in a vote for International Cricket 2010, possibly inspired by a certain series taking place in Australia at the moment. And while we're on the subject of contentious genre inclusions, I would have put Criterion's exuberant Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit in there, rather than the haughty Gran Turismo 5. Neil, though, wanted Sony's Modnation Racers up there, explaining, "the solo game is pretty standard but the multiplayer is multiplayering at its accessible best." Multiplayering? He also put in a good word for RUSE and Lego Harry Potter. We nodded politely.Handheld titles weren't amazingly well represented on the list – no Pokemon HeartGold/SoulSilver, no Wario DIY (for shame – what an amazing concept), no Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker. Neil put in a realistic case for Super Scribblenauts ("Flawed but so much fun and variety"), while Greg proclaimed Might &amp; Magic: Clash of Heroes, 'The game that spent the most time in my DS this year'. "It was the first game since Puzzle Quest to really nail the puzzle/RPG genre," he explains. "It managed to successfully mix accessibility and depth, even if the end battles were a chore. Puzzle Quest 2 had its moments but Might &amp; Magic: Clash of Heroes won this particular battle in 2010."Then there was smartphone gaming. Angry Birds was catapulted onto our list, but I also wanted to seeCut The Ropein there.ZeptoLab's cunning puzzler brilliantly requires both forward-planning and pixel-perfect timing, setting it apart from other great mobile physics-'em-ups. Nicky Woolf referred to Flight Control HD on the iPad as 'gaming crack'. Is that a recommendation or a warning? Possibly both.Greg, meanwhile, opted for Plants vs Zombies HD. "It had been out for a while but the iPad version was where Plants vs Zombies really came alive in 2010," he says. "The controls worked perfectly on the large touchscreen allowing players to easily set out their garden defence. As with most Popcap games, the learning curve was pitched just right with rewards coming at a nice pace. The friendly art style and humorous touches made this one of the best family games this year too." Zombies arefriendly?Finally, indie games were under-represented in my view. I'd like to have seen Terry Kavanagh'sVVVVVVin among the big names, and maybe the phenomenalMinecraftshould have been recognised, despite still being in alpha for most of the year. Also, havingwritten about the disappointing state of horror games, several readers suggested I should playAmnesia: The Dark DescentfromFrictional Games. I did. And yes, it's an astounding survival horror adventure with a genuine sense of darkness.As for everything else, well, it was always a subjective enterprise. Here's to the colourful arguments that 2011 will doubtless bring...
Of my favourite Simpsons quotes, it's probably this one, from Homer at the Bat (1992), that resonates with me most: "No matter how good you are at something, there's always about a million people better than you."Homer's lament, after being dropped from the company softball team, has become more prescient than ever in the online gaming age. When competing with millions, most of us can barely pass for average.I've always been curious about those who manage to rise to the top of these huge pools of gamers – partly because, whenever I get completely rinsed by someone at Fifa or Black Ops, I like to think they have an unfair advantage somehow. Do they have advantageously malformed hands? Are they playboy billionaires whose sole focus in life is to own people on Xbox Live?As such, I took the opportunity to grill (well, lightly grill) Alex Ingram, the man who won the Gran Turismo 5 Bravia 3D tournament last week – a gamer who can make a putative claim to be the best at GT5 in the UK. Could his superhuman powers be conveyed to a mild-mannered games blogger?How old are you and where are you from?I'm 23, originally from Harrogate in North Yorkshire.  I've been living in Edinburgh for the last four years.How much practice has it taken you to get to such a high level?The first round of the tournament was open for 10 days, so during that time I was practicing for a couple of hours per day. I would normally stop when I was pleased with the progress I'd made. I then turned up at the Edinburgh HMV store on deadline day to set a time, which was quite close to the best that I'd achieved at home. In the build-up to the final, I didn't manage to get much practice in as I was quite busy at work.How long have you been playing racing games?I have been into motorsport, and cars in general, from a very young age. I remember playing an old Grand Prix motorcycle game on DOS, so I was probably only about five or six then. I played the first Gran Turismo, and have owned every sequel since.Do you think you have a natural talent for racing games?I believe that natural ability does play a part – but lots of practice is important, too. A good knowledge of motorsport helps, as understanding how and why a car behaves when driven quickly is definitely a benefit. I would also say that I have a strong belief in my own ability, which is important when trying to fend off such stiff competition.At what point did you realise that you were able to compete at such a high level?I always knew that I was reasonably competitive in terms of outright speed, but it wasn't until I got to the GT Academy – the first major tournament I entered – that I realised how competitive I could be. I have known for a long time that I cope well under pressure, and dealing with pressure has been as important to my success as my GT5-playing ability.Did you find it discouraging the first time you played online and found so many people at such a high level out there?I have never been discouraged by things like that. Seeing people who are better than me at something gives me a target to aim at. I always am aware that I can improve, whether at GT5 or at anything else in life, really.Are you determined to carry on getting better and better at GT5?I have such an itch to play GT5 at the moment, and a side effect of playing it all the time is that I'll get better. Whenever a competition is on the horizon, my motivation always increases further too.On average, since you started playing games, how many hours a day have you spent playing?Now that GT5 is out, I would put it around an hour or two per day.  Over my gaming life, it very much depends on what games have been recently released, so sometimes it could be less – maybe not playing anything for days. During competitions, it will be far more – maybe nearer five or six hours.Are you as proud of your GT5 win as you are of more conventional achievements? Do you bring it up conversation when you meet new people?I am hugely proud of what I have achieved, and I definitely rate it very close to the top of the proudest moments of my life. I tend not to manouvre a conversation in the direction of my win, though 'I'm in a good mood at the moment, because I just won a Sony Bravia 3DTV and a holiday to Madrid,' works quite well as a conversation starter ...Do you enjoy driving in real life? Are you a good driver?I really enjoy driving in real life, and I like to think that I am good. After the last Gran Turismo competition I was involved in (the GT Academy) the other competitors and I received five days of intensive training in Nissan GTRs, 370zs and karts, so I believe that the experience I gained there has raised my driving standards in real cars to quite a good level.Are you similarly talented at other videogames?Not really. I enjoy playing shooters like Call of Duty online, but I'm not really at the same level.What other games do you play?I only play Gran Turismo on a regular basis, though I like the Call of Duty games and FIFA is a laugh when I have a few mates over.What you do in the rest of your life?I am a barman in an Edinburgh nightclub/gig venue. When I'm not working (and I can drag myself away from GT5), I like to draw, play the bass, and cook (and eat).How does it feel to be the best in the country?It was an amazing feeling to be the winner of the tournament, which I found hard to describe at the time. Now I've had some time to reflect, I find it incredibly satisfying to know that I am the best in the country at something, particularly at a game that is so popular. I can only imagine how many times that feeling is multiplied when you are the best racing driver in the world, or the best footballer.What sort of incentives there are to invest time into becoming a competitive gamer, entering tournaments?In this contest, I won a Sony BRAVIA 3DTV, and a holiday to Madrid, so that was a great incentive. The previous competition I entered gave competitors the chance to win a contract to Race for Nissan in the European GT4 championship for a season, so there are pretty amazing prizes at each competition.How did you feel about playing in 3D?I really enjoyed playing Gran Turismo in 3D. I feel that they have the effects spot on – conspicuous but not at all intrusive.  I had only seen two examples of 3D before (Avatar and Jackass, both in the cinema), so I was really interested to see how the technology translated onto a smaller screen. As well as Gran Turismo, Sony had a couple of 3D TVs set up to show off the tech to the full, and I was really impressed.And finally, do you have any tips for our GT5-playing readers?The advice I would give to anyone wanting to be a success is buy a gaming wheel and practice lots. Race against other people online; by doing this, you will sharpen your skills, while at the same time learning how other quick guys manage to achieve what they do. Believe in your ability and enjoy it, too – it's much easier to get better at something when you're having fun.
So the turkey is almost finished and the booze supply massively depleted, but which video games have also played a major part in your festive celebrations this year? Did you get the titles you asked for, or did Santa have a little accident, confusing Gran Turismo 5 with Barbie Dream Pony? And have you spotted any gaming bargains in the post-Christmas sales?Regale us with your seasonal tales...
Christmas may be over but Chatterbox is back!
It's not that different for girls. Photo bymariahagglofon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle's Marissa Mayer: Girls Can Be Geeks, Too &gt;&gt; Newsweek"..one of the things I care a lot about is helping to remove that stigma, to show girls that you can be feminine, you can like the things that girls like, but you can also be really good at technology. You can be really good at building things."PC Repair Rip-Offs: Don't Get Gouged by Fix-It Services &gt;&gt; PCWorld magazine"These aren't scams, to be sure--as far as we know, these are all legitimate services from legitimate businesses. But the actual value of these services - relative to the work involved and the likely benefit to the consumer - can be highly questionable in many cases."Facebook Track and Cookies &gt;&gt; termid"Numerous websites have implemented the Facebook Like button to let Facebook members share their interests, therewith promoting websites or news items. It is, thus, an important business tool for content providers. However, this article shows that the tool is also used to place cookies on the user's computer, regardless whether a user actually uses the button when visiting a website. As an alternative business model this allows Facebook to track and trace users and to process their data. It appears that non-Facebook members can also be traced via the Like button."Oh, Facebook, just when you're starting to be nice, we find you not being so nice.Apple to ship 5-6M Verizon iPhones in Q1 2011 &gt;&gt; Vator.tv"Apple is gearing up to ship 20-21m iPhones next quarter, an increase of 1-2m from the company's previous goal of 19m units, according to unnamed sources with Taiwan-based component suppliers who spoke to DigiTimes. Among those shipments will be the CDMA iPhones for Verizon, set at 5-6m units."One Time Only: Scientist-on-Scientist TSA Smackdown &gt;&gt; The AtlanticGot your Taylor series expansion of exponentials ready? Then it's time to read two scientists disagreeing about whether the US TSA's X-ray backscatter poses a risk or not.2011 will be the year Android explodes &gt;&gt; Fortune Tech"In 2011, we might see half a billion phones sold worldwide.  Smartphones will likely blow by traditional computers next year as the way most of the world gains access to the Internet."Putin Orders Russian Move to GNU/Linux &gt;&gt; opendotdotdotTranslated from the original Russian report: "Prime Minister Vladimir Putin signed a plan for transition of power structures and the federal budget [to] free software. According to the document, the introduction of Linux in government should begin in II quarter 2012."Is it to annoy Microsoft, or to protect the Russian government against hacking, or to protect the Russian government from Microsoft investigations over licensing, or to cut costs?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The technology trends to watch out for in 2011 with Jemima Kiss, Keith Stuart and PaidContent's Robert Andrews.We preview internet connected television such asGoogle TV, TiVo and YouView as they are introduced to the UK, plus a new PlayStation phone and Nintendo 3DS – as well as this year's games to look out for.Plus, we ponder an update to the iPad and iPhone as well as the rise of Android – which we predict will see a clutch of new tablet devices – and the release of BlackBerry's PlayBook and HP's tablets containing Palm OS.Keith predicts the rise of cloud gaming and tablet gaming, while Robert expects the digital copyright and piracy debate will reopen BlackBerry's PlayBook which could mean the Digital Economy Act flounders in 2011. And we all hope the roll outof faster, fibre broadband will be happening too.
The following correction was made on Tuesday 28 December 2010The original web headline for this article – More than 3m UK children have no internet access at home, warns charity – conflated two figures: 1m children are without computers and 2m are without internet access. This has been corrected.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------More than one million children in Britain live in homes without computers and a further two million have no internet connection at home, a charity said yesterday).The e-Learning Foundation said it feared the gap between rich and poor pupils' performance at school would widen unless more was done to ensure that every child can use a computer at home.The charity works with teachers and parents to enable children without home computers to borrow them, or their families to buy them.It found that the poorest families in the country were two-and-a-half times less likely to have an internet connection at home than the richest ones.The charity analysed a survey of family spending in Britain, published by the Office for National Statistics last year. The study found that 75% of households had a home computer and 71% had an internet connection, a rise of three and five percentage points respectively on 2008.In the richest 10% of homes, 98% had a home computer and 97% had internet access, but in the poorest 10% of homes only 38% had a home computer and 30% an internet connection.Connection to the internet was lowest in Northern Ireland, where 57% of homes could log on, and highest in the south-east and London, where 72% of homes could access the internet.Valerie Thompson, chief executive of the foundation, said children without computers and with no internet access at home were at a "tangible disadvantage" when it came to completing homework, pursuing their interests and researching topics for school. "Without the use of a computer and the ability to go online at home, the attainment gap that characterises children from low-income families is simply going to get worse," she said.One of the first acts of the education secretary, Michael Gove, was to announce that Becta, a quango that helped schools choose the most suitable technology, was to close.The government said schools were best placed to make decisions about the resources they needed on their own.Gove has cut £100m from a "harnessing technologyfund" that paid  for new computers and broadband connections in schools. T The extent of the gap between rich and poor pupils was highlighted this month when government statistics showed 58.5% of pupils not eligible for free school meals achieved five A* to C grades this summer, including in English and maths, compared with 30.9% of pupils known to be eligible for free school meals. The gap – 27.6 percentage points – has only slightly closed over five years. In 2005, it stood at 28.1 percentage points.Pupils in the most wealthy parts of the country were almost twice as likely to achieve five A* to C grades, including English and maths, as their peers in the poorest parts of the country.Some 74.6% of pupils in the richest 10% of areas achieved five A* to C grades, including English and maths, compared with 35.8% of pupils in the poorest 10% of areas. The gap has narrowed by 3.1 percentage points on last year. A report commissioned by Becta last year found having a computer at home could enable children to improve their GCSE results by as much as two grades.
If Christmas is a time for giving, now is the season for returning. It was nice of Aunt Mildred to think of you, but that sweater/candle holder/bar of soap has to go.As thousands flocked to Britain's shops, many surely to return unwanted presents, it was revealed Amazon has drawn up plans that could end bad gift-getting forever. It threatens to end a lot of friendships, too.The retailer has patented a system that would allow people to identify bad gift givers and return their gifts before they are even sent.The patent documents even mention poor Aunt Mildred by name. According to documents seen by the Washington Post, Amazon's innovation includes an option to "convert all gifts from Aunt Mildred"."For example, the user may specify such a rule if the user believes that this potential sender has different tastes than the user." In other words, givers will have their presents vetted before anything is posted.Unwanted gifts are a multimillion-pound headache for online retailers, with a third of purchases returned. But for those concerned about hurting the feelings of the world's Aunt Mildreds, Amazon's patent submission does contain a get-out clause. Unhappy receivers can thank the sender for the gift they thought they had sent, while secretly enjoying the gift they "converted".Amazon uses algorithms to help people create rules intended to head off bad gifts at the pass. A "gift conversion rules wizard" would allow users to select the parameters of what constitutes an acceptable present. "No clothes with wool," is one option, but a user could just as easily add a ban on Justin Bieber or Susan Boyle.The patent tries to guess the psychology behind bad present buying, speculating that "the person sending the gift may be less likely to take a chance on a gift that is unexpected but that the recipient might truly enjoy", and opt instead for a gift that is more predictable – and unwanted.Don Davis, editor of Internet Retailer magazine, said: "Given how many people use Amazon, all the Aunt Mildreds of the world would soon know about 'conversion'. As for whether this would work, my opinion is no, other than to get Amazon on to a David Letterman list of top 10 signs that western civilisation is dead." Neither Amazon nor Aunt Mildred were available for comment.
Photo byBerto Garciaon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamA Merry Christmas to all Bankers &gt;&gt; LightBlueTouchpaperRoss Anderson had a 'robust' response to bankers who wanted to censor his student's MPhil thesis which showed up faults in Chip-and-PIN.Sinclair ZX Spectrum advert &gt;&gt; ShardcoreYes! Up to 48K RAM! Moving keyboard! Only £125! Take that netbooks! 1982 is calling and it wants its prices back!Apple Gearing Up To Sell 6 Million iPad 2s A Month, Versus 4 Million iPad 1s Per Quarter &gt;&gt; Business Insider"Apple is also NOT gearing up to produce a widely rumored 7-inch version of the iPad, DigiTimes' sources say."Odd, the no-7-inch-iPad "prediction" is one we've been making for a while.How much of Twitter do the founders still own? &gt;&gt; Show me numbersInteresting estimate of who owns how much of it after all those funding rounds.MacBook Air flash storage torture tests | Flash Memory &gt;&gt; MacworldBasically shows that an SSD (solid state disk using Flash) gives data access at twice the speed for a laptop - making it comparable with a desktop. But Mac OSX lacks a utility to keep the SSD in good shape (called TRIM), so only SSDs that have a built-in controller that does it are useful. Note and beware.Broadband, NGA, FTTC and the laws of unforeseen consequences &gt;&gt; Broadband Cumbria blogIntriguing analysis of how expensive it is (or isn't) to lay fibre optic cable (which is cheaper than copper) to wire up a rural area. This turns out to be one of the best possible targets for a "Big Society" approach - which means corporations won't countenance it.Internet Explorer zero-day exploit against all versions: explanation and mitigation &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityInternet Explorer considered harmful. Again. "Unfortunately, Microsoft allows each DLL to decide whether it supports ASLR or not. And IE is implemented as a whole raft of DLLs - some of which are loaded at run-time, as needed, to render content which IE downloads. So, by sending otherwise-innocent files to IE, you can trick it into loading known DLLs. If any of those DLLs do not support ASLR, then they are loaded at a known place in memory."Heigh, ho, Microsoft. There's not much point in putting security guards on every door but leaving the windows open! And those unsafe DLLs mean exactly that - unsafe Windows."Blog Archive » MSE 2.0: watch out for false positives! &gt;&gt; Malware DiariesSo many false positives it looks like fake malware: "All in all, MSE 2.0 needs to tune down the aggressive Java scanner as such behaviour only reinforces the sense of confusion a lot of people have about AV software."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
After the gluttony of the holiday season, it's only appropriate that the first Untangling the web of 2011 is all about health: how has the web changed how we view our bodies, our medical practitioners and our health institutions?Topics that will be tackled are likely to be: the relationship between patient and doctor, health online (the plusses &amp; the minuses), medical cons and medical communities.If you see any glaring omissions, or would like to contribute your own thoughts about health (how are you using the web to get and stay healthy?), get in touch via Twitter (tagging your questions#uttwand#healthor directing them at@aleksk), by sending an old-fashioned email (aleks.krotoski.freelance@guardian.co.uk), or by commenting below.
The web has undergone something of a makeover in the past couple of years. Apps, specialised miniature versions of internet-based services, now allow us to neatly populate our phones and tablet computers with our favourite bits of the web, from train times and painting tools to shopping services and karaoke. Simply packaged and easy to buy, apps have made niche corners of the web more accessible and&nbsp;mainstream.Software developers and publishers have enthusiastically embraced the app revolution, rising to the challenge of customising their services for smaller screens but also taking advantage of new opportunities. On mobile phones, that includes using GPS technology to provide useful results – whether it's astronomy, restaurant reviews or live traffic updates that interest you. There is a thriving ecosystem of developers, some in large companies, many operating alone out of their bedrooms.The alluring 9in touchscreen of Apple's iPad has inspired several customisable magazine formats (such as Flipboard), and has proved great for gaming, allowing groups of friends to cluster around multi-player Scrabble or the addictive Touch Hockey. Long journeys just don't seem as long any more. There are also countless anecdotes about how children as young as 18 months have intuitively learned how to use the iPad, and, in moderation, games such as Animals HD and the excellently crafted Spot Goes to School (yes,thatSpot) are powerful learning tools.Since the App Store launched in July 2008, Apple has popularised apps for mobile phones and for tablets and offers the most diverse range of products, with 300,000 apps in its store. (Significantly, Steve Jobs also plans on bringing a Mac App Store to the latest versions of his desktop Macs early next year.) But there are now plenty of rivals, with Google, BlackBerry, Nokia and Microsoft Windows all introducing their own app stores, as well as independent sites such as GetJar that offer apps for multiple devices. Often, apps are free to download; others cost a one‑off&nbsp;fee or require a form of subscription.Google's sleek phones, which use software called Android, are cheaper than Apple's devices, and the Android Marketplace already has 130,000 apps on offer. Google is aggressively targeting Apple and aims to win this particular arms race.BlackBerry's App World, meanwhile has a little over 15,000 apps, while Microsoft's new Windows Phone Marketplace has 5,000-plus. There is already a slew of Android-powered tablets to rival the iPad, including Samsung's Galaxy Tab and the Advent&nbsp;Vega, and 2011 will see many similar devices launched by other&nbsp;companies.If you've been lucky enough to lay your hands on a new tablet computer or smartphone in the past 48 hours, don't be daunted by the amount of apps available. Just search for what you like, ask your friends what they've discovered... and use our handpicked guide to find the most dazzling, useful and novel apps out there.Fotopedia HeritageiPad, iPhone, freeThe world's largest coffee-table book featuring more than 25,000 sumptuous photographs and articles about 890 Unesco world heritage sites. It's continually&nbsp;expanding as well and it's free.Google GogglesAndroid, iPad, iPhone,  free&nbsp;This visual search tool has a dedicated following among alpha geeks but deserves wider attention. It lets you use pictures, taken on your mobile phone, to search the&nbsp;web.Word LensiPad, iPhone, £2.99Not without some flaws, this augmented-reality translator is still stunning. Point the camera at a foreign language (on a menu, say) and it turns into English on the screen. Spanish-only at the moment; more languages promised.HipstamaticiPhone, £1.19This clever camera accessory gives various retro effects and the option to buy lenses, flashes and films to bring back the control of analogue picture taking. Being able to order prints from inside the app is super-smart.VignetteAndroid, £2.99Supercharge your Android's camera with a dizzying array of film effects, from murky Polaroids to eye-popping cross-processing. Integrates seamlessly with your favourite social networking sites too.LayarAndroid, iPhone, freeAmbitious, augmented-reality app overlays services on to the view through your phone's camera. Dozens of free and paid-for "layars" include a property finder and singles looking for dates. This is what the future feels like.NasaiPad, iPhone, freeLovely educational app for budding astronauts with lots of news from Nasa. Find out when you'll be able to see the International Space Station passing. Also videos, images and lots of info on planets and asteroids and comets.EvernoteAndroid, BlackBerry, iPad, iPhone, Palm, Windows Phone, freeCreate a searchable, taggable database of all the web-clippings, photos and notes you need to hand wherever you are. Syncs to every device imaginable.FlipboardiPad, freeDubbed the next generation of&nbsp;magazine publishing, Flipboard takes news feeds from various sites, including Twitter and Facebook, and brings them together beautifully. Wonderful lean-back experience.BrushesiPad, £4.99David Hockney began experimenting with touchscreen digital painting on the iPhone, so was happy as Larry when the iPad extended his canvas to 9.56 x 7.47in. "Van Gogh would've loved it," he once said.SpotifyAndroid, iPhone, Palm, freeOnly for premium subscribers to the Spotify music download service, but this app will quickly replace your iPod. Offers painless syncing with the desktop app and a recent update eradicates slow loading problems.Tunein RadioAndroid, iPad, iPhone, 59pFrustrated by the lack of FM radios in Apple products? This app gives easy access to more than 40,000 stations. You can save favourites and record. Works brilliantly over Wi-Fi, but can stumble if 3G reception is patchy.SkypeAndroid, BlackBerry, iPad, iPhone, Symbian, freeWi-Fi calls to millions of Skype users are free on this simple app – though you may need to pay for use on 3G. Sadly, you'll have to use a computer or Apple's facetime for video&nbsp;calling.TweetdeckAndroid, iPad, iPhone, freeIt has the official Twitter app beat hands down, and is one of the best clients available. It organises salient information&nbsp;into separate columns and can sync settings across phones and&nbsp;desktops.Angry Birds SeasonsAndroid free, iPad £2.99, iPhone 59pSpecial edition of the game that everyone's been talking about. Don't ask why the birds are angry, they just are, and they want revenge by destroying forts built by the evil green pigs. Brilliant.Cut the RopeiPad, iPhone, 59pMeet Om Nom, the ever-hungry, green, gobbling monster. Your quest is to feed him candy as quickly as possible by catapulting, swinging or floating it into his mouth. A simple, value-for-money game.Doodle JumpAndroid, BlackBerry, iPad, iPhone, Nokia, 59pAn addictive classic. Simply tilt your phone from side to side to direct the Doodler as it bounces higher and higher on a series of disappearing platforms while avoiding killer aliens and other pitfalls.Pocket EmpiresAndroid, freeEpic gaming on a miniature scale: this is an MMO-strategy number along the lines of Civilization, allowing you to build an empire, conquer others, capture creatures and expand your domain. Nice graphics, seriously addictive.The Secret of Monkey Island: Special EditioniPad, iPhone, 59pAn all-time classic with a new lick of paint The point-and-click genre is perfect for the touchscreen, updated graphics shine in hi-def and the tricky yet witty puzzles retain their allure.Plants vs ZombiesiPhone, £1.79Zombies dominate the mobile game market, but this undead spin on the tower defence genre is no mere cash-in. It's one of the best of its type – constructing floral defences from the brain-eating foe is endlessly entertaining.Doctor Who: The Mazes of TimeiPad £2.99, iPhone £2.39Engaging puzzler that's hard enough to keep you playing but not so difficult you'll give up. Graphics are a bit clunky and there's no voice acting from either Matt Smith (the Doctor) or Karen Gillan (Amy).eBayAndroid, BlackBerry, iPad, iPhone, Windows Phone, freePain-free mobile shopping app that allows you to buy as well as list items super-fast using a barcode scanner and your device's camera. Making and spending money has never been easier.iA WriteriPad, £2.99A beautiful and simple design lets you concentrate on writing with no clutter, no fussy font options and no distractions. It's word-processing stripped back and fans swear their productivity has improved as a result.VinspirediPad, iPhone, freeOne of an emerging number of apps that encourage charity work; aimed at 16-25 year-olds in the UK, this lets you search and apply for thousands of volunterering opportunities and record the&nbsp;experience.VouchercloudAndroid, BlackBerry (from 2011), iPad, iPhone, Windows Phone, all phones via SMS, freeDiscount vouchers for shops, restaurants, cinemas, leisure outlets and garden centres. Geo-location allows you to search for offers near you – but few work at weekends.Which? Your RightsiPad, iPhone, freeNot the sexiest of apps, but this mobile guide to consumer rights will arm you with all you need to know in your fight against nasty high street conglomerates, from dealing with faulty goods to returning unwanted Christmas gifts.Real ToolsiPhone, £1.19Leave the weighty toolbox behind, with 18 tools crammed into one little app – everything from a ruler to a spirit level, and  all surprisingly accurate. The measuring scale is a particularly impressive use for a phone.H&amp;MiPad, iPhone, freeMost high street chains have their own apps but Hennes deserves a mention for the app-only discounts that appear when you shake the phone. It also offers a style guide, online shopping and lots of pretty fashion pictures.Malcolm TuckeriPhone, £3.99At £3.99, there's a premium on this app from The Thick of It writing team – but it's worth every penny. The incoming mail and missed call notifications make owning Tucker's missing phone a near-reality.LaDiDaiPad, iPhone, £1.79This reverse karaoke app will turn anything you sing or grunt into a song. Especially popular after a few brandies, LaDiDa will tune your voice, add reverb and a tempo and set your effort to music.myFryiPad, iPhone, £7.99Stephen Fry owned what was possibly the first Apple Mac in Britain, so it's fitting that this app isn't simply his latest book, The Fry Chronicles, in digital form but a beautifully designed interactive version. Pricey but groundbreaking.Infinity BladeiPad, iPhone, £3.49Fairly pricey, but stunning visuals and moreish sword and sorcery gameplay. The combat is impressively layered, with blocks, parries and dodges needed before embarking on a finger-swiping sword attack.Marvel ComicsiPad, iPhone, freeComics and graphic novels work great on the iPad, and Marvel's offering leads the way. The app is free, with a whole universe of comics available for £1.19. Zoom in and out as you please, or tap to be guided from panel to panel.The ElementsiPad, £7.99The periodic table, but not as you might still visualise it from distant schooldays, as a daunting wallchart. Rather, 3D images that you can rotate by touch make – yes – learning fun. Is bismuth the prettiest element?Spot Goes to SchooliPad, £2.99Outstanding interactive book redesigned for the iPad, with interactive flaps, animal noises and a game. Perfect for toddlers and for some parent-child bonding, though clean those sticky fingers&nbsp;first.Jamie's RecipesiPad, iPhone, freeJamie Oliver's apps are even easier to follow than his books&nbsp;and more fun – although not that "recipe packs" such as "comfort food", "10-minute meals" and a timely "festive feasts" cost £1.19 each for 10&nbsp;recipes.NHS Drinks TrackeriPhone, freeEssentially a calculator, this app has the alcohol content of all manner of drinks, letting you measure your consumption. It even provides a slightly worrying graph of your drinking over time and a personalised lecture.Nike + GPSiPhone, £1.19Plot out a run to the exact metre on the maps, then head out using GPS and your phone's accelerometer to track speed and distance travelled. The app even provides a vocal kick up the backside when you start to flag.Carbon TrackeriPad, iPhone, freeFor the green-thinking.  Using GPS, plug in the distance of travel, then the method of transport, and it will spit out an exact carbon footprint for all your festive journeys, providing a surplus of guilt with which to begin the year.QIiPad, iPhone, £4.99The navigation is confusing and it's a touch overpriced but here's your chance to recreate the BBC's oddball quiz show by browsing a plethora of little-known facts and famous sayings and adding&nbsp;your own.VogueiPad, monthly updates £3.99The slickest fashion app yet? Vogue went the extra mile to reimagine the magazine with exclusive video and an imaginative interactive design. iPad owners who liked this also bought Vanity Fair and PopSci's apps.KindleAndroid, BlackBerry, iPad, iPhone, freeBuy and read ebooks from Amazon on this great app. The great Whispersync feature automatically keeps your page across different devices, such as the Kindle e-reader, iPad or mobile.InstapaperiPad, iPhone, free (pro £2.99)The ultimate save-now, read-later app for news junkies. Instapaper strips out ads and design clutter for more leisurely reading. Save stories throughout the day by emailing them to your Instapaper account.The EconomistiPad, iPhone, freeFree, with a few free articles, but chiefly of interest to existingEconomistsubscribers, who see the magazine drop magically on&nbsp;to their device once a week. Leaving the print version&nbsp;unread...EyewitnessiPad, freeA showcase for the best photography featured in theObserverand theGuardian, it downloads the latest 100 images. The pro tip, a note on how the photographer achieved the shot, is a nice&nbsp;touch.TediPad, iPhone, freeA brilliant accompaniment on journeys when you're not in the mood for reading. A bevy of inspirational talks, all around 15 minutes long and available to download for offline viewing (iPad only). Great clean interface.Weather HDiPad, iPhone, 59pGorgeous app that provides&nbsp;hourly or three-day forecasts, illustrated by soothing videos. That's it, really, but it looks beautiful and is surprisingly useful. A&nbsp;Christmas edition is also&nbsp;available.Own Voice for Ovi MapsNokia, freeOvi Maps provides free satnav, an enticing proposition given that a TomTom will come in at over £100, and there's the bonus of uploading any voice as your guide around town for a less annoying driving&nbsp;experience.FoursquareAndroid, BlackBerry, iPhone, Nokia, freeUsing the GPS on the phone, this app lets you check into your location – acting not simply as a stalker's charter, but a chance to earn loyalty bonuses in various shops, bars and restaurants.GrindrBlackBerry, iPad, iPhone, freeA social networking app with a difference. First, it's wholly mobile, using GPS or Wi-Fi technology to determine your location and connect you with others looking for love. Second, as of now, it's really just for gay men.Apps chosen by Dugald Baird, Kate Bevan, Adam Boult, Josh Halliday, Mark King, Jemima Kiss, Tom Lamont, Toby Moses and Michael Whitaker
Readers with long memories will recall the celebrated Schleswig-Holstein question. This referred to a bundle of thorny diplomatic and other issues arising from the relations of two duchies, Schleswig and Holstein, to the Danish crown and to the German Confederation. It was the bane of diplomats' lives in the late 19th century, but we remember it nowadays mainly because of Lord Palmerston's famous wisecrack about it. "The Schleswig-Holstein question is so complicated," he said, "that only three men in Europe have ever understood it. One was Prince Albert, who is dead. The second was a German professor who became mad. I am the third and I have forgotten all about it."The issue of "net neutrality" is the Schleswig-Holstein questionde nos jours. The problem is not that it is so complicated that only three people understand it;au contraire, thousands claim to comprehend it and therein lies the difficulty: their "understandings" differ so markedly, one from another. Some see neutrality as a sacred principle that defines the spirit of the open internet and explains its astonishing ability to stimulate disruptive innovation. At the other extreme, multimedia corporations – and some distinguished computer scientists – see it as a sacred cow that may hamper future rounds of innovation in online services.To appreciate the issue, we need to remember that the internet was designed to perform a single task – it takes in data packets at one end and does its best to deliver them to their destinations. Net neutrality means that the network should be agnostic about the content of the packets. It shouldn't care whether they contain fragments of emails, web pages, instant messages, music tracks, porn videos – whatever. As far as the network is concerned, they're just data packets and should receive equal treatment. According to this doctrine, any departure from this digital egalitarianism should be regarded with great suspicion. So, for example, if your ISP gave preferential treatment to data packets from the BBC iPlayer as against those from 4oD, it would be violating the doctrine, as it would if it took payments from Microsoft to prioritise Bing search results over those from Google.Every time a government agency dips a toe in the neutrality pond, there's a cacophony of contradictory reactions. And so it proved last week. On Tuesday, the US Federal Communications Commission, which has the power to set the rules for internet use in the US, issued a ruling which administered the latest kick to the hornets' nest.In an admirably succinct summary, myGuardiancolleague Charles Arthur puts it thus: the FCC "seems to have done the right thing – defending neutrality – for fixed-line broadband, but fumbled it on mobile". This is because the proposed rules "seem to allow mobile carriers to decide that they can introduce pay-per-service charges, so that Skype or YouTube or Facebook might be charged to get their content on to the networks; alternatively (or perhaps additionally), users who wanted those services might find themselves being charged extra. That, obviously, means that those services are not being treated in a 'neutral' way. Which means that you don't have net neutrality."Or, to put in another way, the FCC seems to have endorsed net neutrality for the past (fixed-line internet connections) while abandoning it for the future.Does this matter? Yes, because while most people still get their internet connections via fixed-line broadband, the likelihood is that in 10 years' time a majority will access the net via wireless connections. And if the FCC ruling stands, the wireless sphere will be anything but neutral. It will be dominated by the carriers – the telcos – who see no merit in neutrality. Which is why some people feel that the FCC's decision effectively means kissing goodbye to the open internet.  "The neutering of the internet is now the unofficial policy of the Federal Communications Commission,"writes Dan Gillmor, for example. "Contrary to the happy talk from FCC chairman Julius Genachowski... the move is well underway to turn the internet into a regulated playground for corporate giants."Sceptics about net neutrality will doubtless portray this as an over-reaction. Until I read Tim Wu's new book –The Master Switch: the Rise and Fall of Information Empires(Knopf, 2010) – I might have agreed with them. But Professor Wu places all this in a more sombre context – of what he calls the Cycle. "History shows," he writes, "a typical progression of information technologies: from somebody's hobby to somebody's industry; from jury-rigged contraption to slick production marvel; from a freely accessible channel to one strictly controlled by a single corporation or cartel — from open to closed system."Will the internet prove to be immune to Tim Wu's Cycle? I wouldn't bet on it.
We, my friends, are doomed. As you sit belching your way through holiday gluttony, updating your Facebook status while watching in horror as Grandma attempts another personal best on Kinect and little Jane shoves her new iPad in your face, society is crumbling around us. At the centre of our demise is the decline in the most sacred of social units, the family. And you – yes you – are responsible.Why? Because by communicating with your friends and loved ones via the world wide web you are actively colluding with the terrible culprit that's systematically upsetting the precarious social balance that separates us from the other primates. "The Internet Causes Death!" one unhinged headline reads. "The web is turning our children into code junkies!" says another. And there you sit, tweeting away, unaware that the pied piper is coming to shove your family off a cliff.Oh, give over. The decline of the traditionally understood family has been on the cards since the sociopathic Cain knocked off his brother, Abel, for Daddy's fortune and that proto-emo Hamlet staged a passive-aggressive dig at his mum for poisoning his dad. Within the last 60 years, the piper role has been played by eternal teenager James Dean, a mop-topped Beatle, the oversexed Jimmy Page, the squat plumber Mario and the demon Marilyn Manson. Now that we've hit the 21st century, he looks like inauspicious Harvard drop-out Mark Zuckerberg. Tell me how this is a bad thing; frankly, I think we're on the up.Researchers who've been studying the family from the days before the web had already described how family life was weakening because of the rise of individualism. Divorce was already on the increase before email, instant messaging and Facebook. Families were even then eating fewer meals together. It's an insidious trait of the adults of one modern era to point the finger at a technology they don't understand and blame it for the next generation's behaviour that they can't control."But but but," I hear you protest, "whataboutthe children? They're learning bad things online!" Yes and they used to hang out on street corners and learn bad things there too. Now that we're so scared of one another in real-life that we won't pop next door for a cup of sugar in case the lollipop man has a gun or is a paedophile, the web is our way out of our gilded cages. And as escape crafts go, it's a pretty good one.The web isn't killing family; if anything, it's saving it. We live in an increasingly transient world, where the need to make a living has given rise to mass migration to urban centres in every country. Children are separated from parents, siblings from one another and the web has provided us with the devices that make it easy to stay in touch. I live in the UK and communicate with my mum in India and my dad in Louisiana for virtually nothing. Mum follows my Twitter feed and my Flickr account and probably knows me better now than she has at any other point in my adult life.John is a reader of this columnwhose job separates him from his kids, aged from five to nine, but he uses games and Skype to read to, play with and hang out with them for at least an hour a day before bedtime. "I read about someone's dad, many years ago, playing chess with his son using a Velcro board and the postal service," says John. "It's about inventiveness. My partner and I share aClub Penguinaccount; we do up our igloo as a place that is ours for the kids to visit whenever they like."This is nothing novel;a 2008 report from the Pew Internet &amp; American Life groupconcluded: "Technology is enabling new forms of family connectedness that revolve around remote mobile phone interactions and communal internet experiences."The closeness facilitated by the web that John describes doesn't replace face-to-face contact – you can't, for example, "have a hug", as his nine-year-old son Josh says – but it's better than nothing. In many ways, like the way in which it has created a global network, it's much better. There have been a few headline-grabbing reports of people finding long-lost family through social networks, which actually happened to another friend of mine. After years of thwarted attempts to find a sibling through traditional means, she and her sister followed the traces they'd left about themselves on Facebook. After making a few educated guesses and poking around a bit, they were reunited for the first time in their lives.Everything I've been talking about is based on a very traditional account of the "family": siblings, kids, parents. But the 21st-century family is cut from a very different cloth than previous generations'.Nick Henry, managing director of the recently created celebration National Family Week, describes the modern family as being "a lot more flexible than it has been: it covers those who are closest to you who support you through difficult times and decisions".This broader family church, unrecognised by governments and most policy wonks, is undoubtedly supported in online interactions.Another Pew report, of 2009, reviews all the literature that describes the depth and breadth of online connections that fall outside kinship groups and it describes how new technologies actually provide family-like social integration rather than encourage isolation.Web technology itself hasn't undermined the foundations of the institution of the family. We've been doing that to families without it for centuries. What seems to be happening is that our online activity is actually reversing a worrying trend. So go on, post that video of Grandma on the Xbox to YouTube. She may not thank you for it now, but Uncle Bob, trapped in Basingstoke because of the snow, will appreciate it for ever.
This morning the Google Nexus S phone I'm trying had a Christmas present: an update to the 2.3 Android OS, to 2.3.1. Install? Of course.And when the install had finished, the phone was ready. And all the settings - mail, camera, locations of icons, downloaded apps,everythingexcept the SIM (thankfully) wiped.So be aware: it's not a good install if you're using a Google Nexus S, at least, If you've had problems too with this Christmas update, do tell us. The problem may be because the Nexus S doesn't have separate storage.Update:Google has got in touch to say that the problem was due to this being a Google-flashed version that had been loaned to me, rather than a consumer version. On that basis, it seems safe to accept the update if you've got a shop-purchased version.The simple option: don't accept the update. We hope it was a huge mistake that will be withdrawn. But for those who have spent money on apps, that won\'t be much recompense.Update: some are reporting it's OK for them (that's good); on TwitterJonathan Morris asksif the problem was that I'm using a review model (I am) which might "be rebooting in bootloader mode, where you can reset all data if not careful". (Bootloader mode?Read up.) However I didn't knowingly set that up - I've just been using it as a phone.Others are recommending usingAppBrainto make sure that your apps are re-downloaded in the event that your phone is wiped/wipes itself.Oh, and happy Christmas, everyone.
Even the Beatles couldn't work it out. Viacom last night sold out of its ailing video game franchise Rock Band –home to last year's be-your-own-Beatle title– ending an ill-fated foray into gaming.Viacom – which also owns MTV, Comedy Central and Paramount Pictures – sold the Harmonix game developer to investment firm Columbus Nova, gaining an estimated $200m (£129m) from the deal. The exact sale price was not disclosed.Viacom bought Harmonix in September 2006 for $175m (£113m) as it looked to extend its reach into the lucrative gaming industry, but failed to develop the business in the way it had hoped.Harmonix had developed the original – and more successful – Guitar Hero games, but switched to Rock Band after the Guitar Hero franchise was taken over by larger rival Activision.Although the Beatles version of Rock Band sold in similar volumes to Guitar Hero 5 last year, the general decline in video game sales meant that the franchise was hit hard last year, and the company lacked the product depth to compensate.A year on, Viacom concluded that it didn't have the necessary nous to make the Rock Band franchise work. "Harmonix has and will continue to create terrific video games, but for us, it is about focus. The console games business requires an expertise and scale that we don't have," chief executive Philippe Dauman said.Viacom, and its controlling shareholder Sumner Redstone, has repeatedly tried to reproduce the success of MTV and develop investments outside television. Redstone invested in another games company, Midway, home to Mortal Kombat, but that too ended in failure and a sale for just $100,000 in 2008.Wall Street analysts have always had doubts about the media giant's ability to ingratiate itself into gaming. "The decision to sell Rock Band is welcome news," said Christopher Marangi, an analyst at Gabelli. "The franchise has been a disappointment and a drag on earnings."Despite a strong early return, sales of the three Rock Band games have fallen steadily since then, in line with wider music-based games. Towards the end of 2009, and despitethe much-hyped release of The Beatles Rock Band, Viacom warned that the franchise would just about break even and that the economics of the series were "improving, though not as quickly as we'd like". It was soon apparent that even the Beatles edition wasn't going to do the business Viacom had hoped for.Sales of recently-released Rock Band 3 have been similarly stagnant, despite allowing games to use real musical instruments. But with newfound independence, Harmonix now insists the music game industry is alive and well and that it was "hard at work on some unannounced projects that we think you're going to be pumped about"."We are excited to be returning to our roots as an independent and privately-owned studio," it said.
It's Christmas Eve and here's the final part of our Top 20! These are the five games the Guardian reviews team played and enjoyed the most this year. Have a look and if you think we're mad, add your own favourites to ourreader's list.Okay, here we go...5. Fallout: New Vegas(Obsidian, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Yes, there were bugs. When originally released, New Vegas was so littered with technical issues, a subsequent patch containedover 200fixes. But the latest title in the post-apocalyptic adventure series was a victim of its own ambition – the best way to fail. And of course, this is no failure. Switching the action to America's West Coast, it's another freeroaming quest in which various tribes, the remnance of humanity, carve out violent lives amid the wreckage of civilisation. The game's appeal is similar to Red Dead's – as Jake Arnott put it in his review, "Perhaps its greatest strength is the fact that everybody can play it differently. Rigidly follow the main storyline – or wander off and ignore it entirely. Try and be as moral as possible – or kill and rob the first merchant you come across. It's a tailor-made gaming experience where everything can be done at your own pace and in your own way." I also love that within the chaos, writer Josh Swayer has used the New Vegas setting as a satire on contemporary financial markets (see our interview with himhere) – it is a city of sisyphean madmen risking everything and doomed to lose, never understanding the absurdity and inhumanity of it all. New Vegas is Wall Street: the casino on the edge of Armageddon.4. Gran Turismo 5(Polyphony Digital, PS3)Once upon a time, Gran Turismo was cutting edge – now it is a belligerent iconoclast clinging to its late-nineties vision of how a complex driving simulation should look and feel. Hence, rudimentary collision detection and sketchy AI, but a massive roster of cars and circuits; an atavistic celebration of storage capacity. "But it has a sheer appreciation, and love, for cars and driving that is difficult to resist," wrote Nicky Woolf in his review of the title. "At times it feels less like playing a game and more like indulging in a hobby." And that is Gran Turismo 5 all over. Away from the complex interplay of A-spec, B-spec and License tasks, it's game about obsessing over cars, tweaking them, learning how to get the absolute most out of them, and then driving them around dozens of beautiful courses. Swapping them, as regular inhabitants of the Gamesblog's Chatterbox forum have discovered, is also an engrossing pleasure. In the first part of this list, I joked that Final Fantasy XIII was the Gran Turismo of RPGs, because both games adhere to their own game design rulebooks, quite apart from advances elsewhere. But the GT series has always been RPG-like in its obsessions with stats and inventories – GT5 is the culmination of that. Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit has the thrills, GT5 has the crazed depth. It should have its own Haynes manual – it probably will.3. Heavy Rain(Quantic Dream, PS3)The only game of the year to involve changing a nappy, making an omelette AND cutting your finger off, Heavy Rain is a phenomenal work. Like Alan Wake, it is a psychological thriller with a disintegrating hero at its core. But the tale of Ethan Mars, who must perform a series of grotesque tasks to save the life of his kidnapped son, is somehow so much more grim and immersive than Remedy's supernatural romp. It is amazing really that this weird and ambitious game ever got made – created by cult French studio Quantic Dream and published by Sony, it's like an indie title that's somehow been greenlit for international distribution and handed a multimillion dollar budget. While not everyone enjoyed the stilted control mechanism, the staged structure or the reliance on 'quick time events' for the major action set-pieces, it was a game you just had to experience. And as plot twists go, Heavy Rain's is a nasty ontological trick that could only work in an interactive medium. Groundbreaking – not in terms of gameplay systems, of course, but in terms of what can be achieved with story and character in games.2. Mass Effect 2(BioWare, PC, Xbox 360)No one else in the world makes games like BioWare. In many ways, the talky, rambling, complex Mass Effect was a throwback to the era of the original computer RPGs and text-based adventures – difficult, intellectually challenging, conceived by and for adults. This mammoth sequel, another quest to save human colonists from various intergalactic foes, does make concessions to modern gamers, with its simplified structure, cover mechanic and streamlined narrative. But this remains an actionRPGand the emphasis is on having to communicate with and understand other characters. Even with an improved combat system, this is far from the realms of Halo or Gears of War. And the fact that you can load up your character and situation from the first game gives the whole Mass Effect universe a sense of epic continuity, like those bulky sci-fi novels that range over several books. And now Mass Effect 3 has been announced and the quest will continue – if you haven't already met Commander Shepard and his crew, now would be a very good time to get acquainted.1. Red Dead Redemption(Rockstar San Diego, PS3, Xbox 360)For me, this was never in question; it was always Red Dead. The first time I played, I saw an outlaw murder a prostitute on the steps of a saloon; I chased him and gunned him down. It was atinypiece of emergent narrative, but it spoke volumes about what this game was – a universe equally created by the designers and every individual player. Rockstar vainly fought comparisons with Grand Theft Auto; the similarities are obviously there. Yet, by moving the action to the dying years of the Old West, the publisher's San Diego team lent this open-world epic a sense of profundity, of grandiose meaning that GTA never attained, even when GTA IV tried to talk about the tragedy of immigration and belonging. The story of John Marston, the ex-outlaw forced to track down his old gang, is the classic stuff of Leone – it is about the inescapability of the fate we draw for ourselves. Red Dead Redemption is a game that understands, as the best Western movies do, that the West is about mythology, it is filled with ghosts. You need never face it, though – you can just ride out into the scrubland and never come back. You can ride and shoot and enjoy the evocative soundtrack and feast on the DLC, and turn away from what Marston has in store. It is always your story.
