Google has celebrated the 129th birthday of Swiss psychiatrist Hermann Rorschach with a doodle showing his famous inkblot test.The black and white doodle features a cartoon of the psychoanalyst taking notes as disembodied hands hover holding a card displaying an inkblot.Different inkblots can be seen by clicking on the card. They include some spoofs – including a pair of gnomes, a pair of T-Rex-like dinosaurs and a butterfly hovering above a cat's face.Users are prompted to share their interpretation of the inkblots on social media, including Facebook and Twitter.Rorschach was born on 8 November 1884 in Zurich, Switzerland and developed his famous test in 1921.It comprises 10 inkblot images, which patients must look at and describe what they see.In some cases, focusing on tiny details around the edges of the images is seen as evidence of obsessive behaviour.After years of conducting the inkblot test on hospital patients, Rorschach wrote a book called Psychodiagnostik that describes how it could be an effective tool in psychoanalysis.He died less than a year later, aged just 37, after a ruptured appendix led to peritonitis.Advocates of the Rorschach test say it can reveal underlying mental issues that patients themselves may not be aware of, but critics dismiss it as out-of-date and it is rarely used in the UK.
The first time I tried to fly a helicopter, a few good men died on the landing pad. On attempt two, I got airborne before landing in the ocean. On lucky number three, I flew that bird as god intended, making long sweeps around hotspots and waiting for Wagner to kick in. This is the life, I thought, lazily hovering towards an enemy squad. Too low; the blades hit a tree, I lost control, grunts scattered below, and the ground span wildly – dead. Multi-kill! Taking out enemies this way is one of the many reasons Battlefield 4 is amazing.Housekeeping first though, because the singleplayer campaign isn't one of them. The best you can say is it's a well-executed take on this generation's familiar FPS cliches, until an abrupt and disappointing multiple-choice ending. Firing the guns feels great, but the entire exercise has an air of redundancy – enemy behaviour you've seen before, scene ideas you've played before, and even the seemingly-obligatory torture scene. The template for this stuff is 2007's Modern Warfare, and despite BF4's near-constant spectacle, the years have not been kind.Still: who cares? Battlefield has a singleplayer campaign because it has to have one, but this series is so loved because of multiplayer. The key feature is destructibility; any structure can be chipped away by gunfire or blown apart by explosions. It's one of those things that sounds like an incidental feature until you pop off a few shots at a tank then hide in a building – at which point the tank's driver, quite sensibly, fires at the wall and takes you and the house with it.The destructibility gives this world an atmosphere, makes it feel more solid. Bullets chew up masonry as you fire down corridors, explosions puff out obscuring clouds of dust, and shelter becomes open ground. This theatre of war crumbles during the show, and it's an environment done full justice by surround sound that picks out skittering footsteps, the crack of a sniper's bullet, or the overwhelming impact of a tank shot.The polish extends far beyond BF4's more obvious charms to systems like squad spawning or the AI mic chatter that flags enemy targets. These tie together large groups of players and large objective-based maps, forging fast links between random players and giving reinforcement waves an underlying rhythm. So many small features are a delight; I love 'spotting' enemies by pulling the R2 trigger, which means you forego opening fire for a second to flag their position for the team. It's a slightly risky choice but a heavily rewarded one, so players like me keep on doing it, and the whole squad benefits.Guiding behaviour like this is the mark of a great developer, but what makes Battlefield brilliant is in how this setup leads to endless one-off situations and emergent battles. Multiplayer's main mode is Conquest, where three to five objectives have to be fought over and held – some of these are flags in mini-arenas, and some of them are flags on things like a skyscraper.With friends like these …I remember the first time I fought on top of the skyscraper, because it was going well. We had an awesome group of six or seven locking it down, I'd got a few kills, and everything was peachy until an alarm started going off. The four guys near me got up, turned around and jumped off the building. I looked down to see their parachutes blossoming up one-by-one, and was thinking 'how beautiful' as the skyscraper collapsed and killed me.You don't get that in Call of Duty. And these marquee moments are matched to a more extended beat, the way that Battlefield produces great strings of stories during multiplayer. I played on Zavod 311, a sweeping map punctuated by empty tank factories, and fell in with a soldier called Poopagore (a pretty tame handle by FPS standards). Initially we just happened to be in the same fight. Then we started following each other around, watching each other's back, and using the squad spawn system to stay together.Soon enough we'd both tweaked our loadouts so we were carrying defibrillators to revive the other when things went wrong. Poopagore found a tank, and in a mad five-minute spell we took every Conquest marker. We hid out in factory gantries and spotted targets for each other, flew choppers on wild sorties in the enemy's general direction, and took out a three-man squad in an instant with synchronised grenades. Over a 42-minute match, this random person and I didn't exchange a word but played together in an awesome one-off buddy movie.It has to be said that, for anyone familiar with Battlefield 3, this is more of the same with welcome tweaks – new features include things like leaning out of cover to fire, which slots into your move-set neatly but hardly revolutionises things. It would be easy to be sniffy about the similarities between the two games, but fundamentally Dice has done the right thing – BF4 plays superbly, a mighty game in its own right, and is simply glorious in action.On the levelIt's outside the matches themselves that things get uglier. The first problem is that encrusted around progression is a gradual and grinding unlock/upgrade system, so most of the guns and kit are locked until you've spent hours and hours and hours levelling up. And then levelling up individual weapons for upgrades like handles and sights, and upgrading your vehicle boosts, and perk packages. This type of thing clearly has a place, but BF4's formulaic take feels pointlessly expansive, something that may serve its hardcore fanbase but rather restricts things for those who only want to play every so often.Still: grinding out reflex sights isn't ideal, but I can live with it. Far harder to take is the heavy hand of the bean-counting overlords at EA, who do not like the idea of customers only paying them once. BF4 costs £40, or if you want to wait for the next-gen versions closer to £50. For this not-inconsiderable ticket price you might expect to have bought the greater part of Battlefield 4 – but then the menus spend most of their time suggesting otherwise.A slow clap please for Battlefield Premium, a year-round calendar of DLC content and extras for another £40, and something BF4 is constantly forcing into your sight. It certainly has a premium position on the game's starting menu, and even modes like the 'My Soldier' customisation also funnels you towards – what? Premium knives, premium paint, 12 golden premium 'Battlepacks', premium customisation and premium events. The slogan for Battlefield Premium is, I kid you not: 'Own more, be more.' I mean, tell us what you really think.It's as well to remember at times like these that Battlefield is a toy and not a lifestyle choice. The really unfortunate thing with this Premium nonsense is that the greater body of players are made to feel like they're travelling in economy class, so that the core fans can be milked. I'm not anti-DLC, but the way Battlefield Premium constantly thrusts at you just feels grubby. It's not a nice way to treat paying customers, and it's a pity to see it besmirch such a great game.• Battlefield 4 reviewed on PlayStation 3
Google is selling itsNexus 5Android smartphone at around a £50 less than other retailers can buy it, according to one retailer.The much-anticipated new flagship smartphone costs£300 directly from Google’s own Play store.While it is unknown how much Google pays for each unit of Nexus 5 from its manufacturing partner LG in South Korea, other resellers are &quot;able to buy the phone from LG for around £350&quot; according to a retail source talking to the Guardian – £50 more than Google is currently selling the phone for on the Play Store.Familiar ground“We saw the same thing with theNexus 4,” explained Ben Wood, mobile analyst with research firm CCS Insight. “With the Nexus line, Google always goes for very aggressive pricing with its manufacturing partner.”The advantage of being part of Google’s Nexus programme is early access to new versions of Google’s Android operating system, which gives device manufacturers a leg up on the competition and Google leverage over their partner.HTC enjoyed success as one of the first Nexus partners, and Samsung’s participation within the programme with theGalaxy Nexuswas arguably part of the reason why theSamsung Galaxy S IIIsold so well.Nexus programme put LG smartphones back on the mapFor LG, Google’s current manufacturing partner, the Nexus programme put its smartphone back on the map, although it still has some way to go to match its South Korean neighbour, Samsung.“Although it is unlikely Google would sell the Nexus 5 at a straight loss, it is highly likely that it would sell it at around cost or with very little margin,” said Wood.“Google will only sell around 1-2m Nexus 5s, but they will be bought by key people – Android evangelists, developers and influencers – spreading the Android brand,” Wood concluded.Despite apparent high demand due to stock shortage, the Google Nexus 4 sold under 400,000 units in three months in January, according toanalysis of phone serial numbers.• In October, Google launched its next iteration ofAndroid 4.4 “Kitkat”along with the Nexus 5 complete with an always-listening voice search, full-screen immersion and support for low-power sensors
Last month’s Tech Monthly project drew a fantastic response, with nearly 300 entries on the theme of “clusters”. Our favourite image, a huddle ofnewly hatched spiders, was taken by clenchpen2 using a Canon 60D, 60mm macro lens, f8 1/125, ISO 400. See a selection of the best images inour online galleryand browse the entire range of submissions online onGuardianWitness.Fancy seeing your picture in print? Join our next science and tech GuardianWitness project! We want you to submit your photographs on the theme of ‘networks’. So whether it’s a web of neurons, the building of a new train line, an interesting take on social media or simply a raft of sea otters holding paws, we want you to send us your pictures and tell us which kit you used to take the perfect shot.Glasgow's underground railway network. Photograph: AlamySea otters in kelp, Enhydra lutris, Monterey Bay, California, USA. Photograph: Frans Lanting/Getty ImagesShare your images by clicking on one of the blue &apos;Contribute&apos; buttons, or if you&apos;re out and about, you can download theGuardianWitness smartphone app. We will print our favourite in the next issue of Tech Monthly and compile an online gallery.Closing date: 20 November 2013.GuardianWitnessis the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.
After a month at the top of the YouTube charts, Miley Cyrus was knocked off her wrecking ball by Swedish gamerPewDiePiein October.PewDiePie – the alter ego of 24 year-old Felix Kjellberg – notched up 192.6m views of his YouTube videos last monthaccording to online-video industry site TubeFilter, returning him to the top of its YouTube channels chart.Cyrus fell to third place in the rankings with 172.8m views, havingtopped the chart in Septemberwith 270.1m views as her Wrecking Ball music video went viral. In October, the two stars were separated by Turkish music industry channel MÜ-YAP with its 179m views.PewDiePie continues to fly under the radar of much of the traditional media industry, despite his YouTube success. Kjellberg now has more than 15m people subscribing to his channel, having added more than 1m in October alone.As a guide, PewDiePie&apos;s channel generated more views that month than the official channels for the BBC, NBA, National Geographic and X Factor UK combined. That said, October&apos;s 192.6m views wasn&apos;t one of Kjellberg&apos;s best months, given that he comfortably exceeded 200m views in June, July, August and September.TubeFilter&apos;s chart also reveals that the 100 top YouTube channels generated 5.77bn total views in October, up 7.8% from September&apos;s 5.36bn. Music videos network Vevo accounted for 22 of the 100 most popular channels, with major label Warner Music having another three.Six of the top 100 channels came from British brands or entertainers: One Direction (73.5m views), X Factor UK (53.4m), Yogscast (45.3m), Kids TV 123 (42.9m), the BBC (40.6m) and Britain&apos;s Got Talent (34.9m)
In the pre-digital age, we expressed adulation for our idols by excitedly sending off a postal order to join their fan club. In return, you'd get a signed photo, a badge and perhaps a biannual newsletter if you were lucky. These days, fans show their allegiance in much less analogue ways: by following their favourite famouses on Twitter and Instagram, joining Facebook groups and downloading their apps. Meanwhile, celebrities are increasingly seeing apps as part of their "personal brand portfolio", a "revenue stream" to rank alongside calendars and fragrances. They're also a way to tap into the social media boom and engage with fans, while convincing the world at large that they're media savvy and willing to embrace new technology. Many are merely clunky soundboards, low-rent gossip feeds or ugly lyric hubs. Here's some of the smarter ones.VIRTUALLY TOM DALEYiOS, ANDROID £1.49The toothy teen heart-throb and presenter of ITV'sSplash!– oh, and apparently he's also an Olympic medal-winning diver or something – hasa virtual self who sends out "headcasts". These are "visual Tweets", sent directly to his followers and spoken by a talking, animated Tom. Futuristic. Also slightly sinister.KISS JUSTIN BIEBERiOS, ANDROID FREE BUT PAY FOR 'RELATIONSHIP TOKENSJustin is all grown up now at 19. This game enables you tomeet the Canadian pop chipmunk at a virtual holiday resort and, well, kiss him. You can speed up or slow down your snogs, but must keep him interested and not get caught to achieve hallowed "Mrs Bieber" status. Swoon.ARTPOPiOS, ANDROID FREELady Gaga reckons the app to accompany her highly anticipated third studio album is "in essence, an interactive jewel case". ARTPOP will be released through the app on 11 November andfans (her famed Little Monsters) will be able to socialise via the software. There are whispers it will also unlock bonus tracks. Gaga, ooh la la.SNOOPIFYiOS,ANDROIDFREESnoop Lion (né Dogg) enables you to "Snoopify" your pics with graphics and stickers, ranging from the rapper's G-funk era to his Rasta reggae reinvention. Feeling flush? Fo' shizzle? Then pay an extra $99 (£65) for the "Golden Jay", a sparkly spliff which emits a puff of multi-coloured smoke. Ya dig, nephew?WAKE UP WITH PAMiOS 69pDuring her 90s heyday (not to mention her, ahem, "home movie" era), millions of men dreamt of waking up next to Pamela Anderson. Well, now they finally can thanks to this app. Hervideo alarm clock boasts not one, but five saucy clipsof the lovely Pammy urging you to get yourself out of bed. And fortunately none of them features Tommy "T-Bone" Lee.ASK THE HOFFiOS69p,ANDROID99pNot to be outdone by Pammy, David Hasselhoff also has his own app. As the man says: "In our darkest hour, we all ask ourselves: What would the Hoff do?" Turn up the volume, ask a question, shake your handset and he'll answer. "With the Hoff in your pocket, you're the best you'll ever be. And that's a scientific fact." NB: not actually scientific fact.SHATOETRYiOS,ANDROID69pYour idle musings and half-arsed attempts at poetry will never sound so good, or preposterously over-acted, as with this William Shatner app. Choose your words and the phenomenon formerly known as Captain Kirk will recite them. You can even choose which words get extra hammy emphasis. It's poetry, Jim, but not as we know it.BE LIKE LIL' WAYNEiOS £1.49"Pimp" your photos with the aid of the cough-syrup-guzzling southern rap star. This amusingly pointless app willWayne-ise your pics with threads, bling, hats, tatts and teeth grills. You can even be photobombed by Lil' Wayne himself, then turn your creation into a sliding puzzle game. Which is nice, albeit not terribly ghetto.BRIAN COX'S WONDERS OF THE UNIVERSEiOS £3.99The cherubic boffin's award-winning app takes you ona brain-bending 3D tour of the universe, from the smallest particles to the stars and beyond. Brian Cox imparts his wisdom along the way with 200 interactive articles. With whizzy infographics and handsome animation, physics has never looked so fit.TAYLOR SWIFT GREETING CARDSiOS,ANDROIDFREEGot something special to say? Don't say it with tedious flowers or a boring old normal card. Say it with a sickly sweet, glitter-sprinkled, cutesy customised notelet from the planet's favourite country-tinged popstrel. And you can pay an extra 69p to add some of Taylor's music to your card. Wildly popular, for some strange reason.
The hotly anticipated stock-market debut of Twitter exceeded expectations on Thursday when a stampede for shares sent the company's value to more than $24bn – an extraordinary debut for a company that has never made a profit, and whose launch had already been the subject of considerable hype.The company set a share price of $26 on Tuesday but fierce bidding for the limited number of shares available drove that price up to over $45 as the stock market opened, a rise of 73%. In early trading the price at one point topped $50. It closed the day at $44.90.Twitter's float price was considered restrained, and analysts had been forecasting a surge on the first day of trading, but the scale of the demand was unexpected. Thirteen years since the dotcom crash, there were warnings of a new technology bubble."I anticipated a very strong open, but when you start to approach these levels, this is absolute froth," said Jeffrey Sica, president of Sica Wealth Management in New Jersey. "There is nothing supporting this range. I think this is just way, way above what realistically we should be considering."The float instantly made billionaires of co-founders Ev Williams and Jack Dorsey. Williams owns 59.6m shares, valued at more than $2.69bn. Dorsey holds another 23.4m shares, valued at over $1bn. But the biggest winner was Twitter's largest shareholder, Rizvi Traverse. The private equity group run by reclusive New Yorker Suhail Rizvi holds nearly $4bn worth of the stock, and its Saudi client Prince Alwaleed bin Talal will also share in the bonanza, having taken an early bet on Twitter.Now seven years old, Twitter claims more than 200m users worldwide and has 53m active users in the US, where it makes most of its advertising revenues. But it is far from ubiquitous. Facebook, the last big tech IPO, has about four times as many active users in the US. Neither has it made a profit: in the first nine months of this year, Twitter posted a loss of $134m. Facebook's profits grew to more than $1bn before it went public.Twitter CEO Dick Costolo. Photograph: Andrew Burton/Getty ImagesTwitter's market valuation by the close on Thursday was 24 times its projected earnings of $1bn next year. That same multiple applied to Apple would represent the entire annual economic output of Germany, said Tomas Freyman, director of valuations at BDO. "This is a company with $600m of revenues and no profits," Freyman said, adding that the company would have to "put up some serious numbers soon" to justify the price.Some analysts questioned whether Twitter's advertising targets were achievable. "Twitter's entire business model is based on advertising – not on the ads it has, but on the ads it hopes one day it might get," said Larry Chiagouris, professor of marketing at Pace University in New York.Nevertheless, Twitter is big on mobile, the fastest growing area for advertisers and one where others, including Facebook until recently, have struggled. In September, the company bought MoPub, which manages online ad sales, for a reported $350m. The company will allow Twitter to sell its expertise in mobile advertising to other parties and its purchase was seen by analysts as a critical move in growing revenues.Sam Hamadeh, founder of analyst Privco, said the rise in Twitter's stock was "rich, no doubt". But he projected that it would hold "as the company's revenue grows into that valuation". Hamadeh said Twitter was likely to target private companies with its new funds."Twitter will use its rich stock to buy companies straightaway, adding to its revenues and further justifying its high valuation," he said.The contrast with Facebook's troubled launch last year, when shares plunged to half their opening value, was marked. Twitter's debut was smooth and crowd-pleasing, with Star Trek actor Patrick Stewart and nine-year-old anti-slavery fundraiser Vivienne Harr ringing the opening bell at the New York stock exchange.Whereas Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg stayed holed up in his California headquarters, declining to comment as technical glitches delayed trading on the Nasdaq exchange, Twitter's chief executive Dick Costolo conducted live interviews from the floor of the NYSE.Costolo, whose slice of Twitter is now worth more than $370m, vowed to "reach every person on the planet" and described his service as an "indispensable companion to life in the moment". He said much of the $1.82bn that Twitter raised on Thursday will be spent hiring teams outside the US to create more international content.Speaking on Wednesday, Mary Jo White, the chairwoman of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, questioned the wisdom of investing purely on the grounds of huge numbers of users."It can be hard not to think that these big numbers will inevitably translate into big profits for the company. But the connection may not necessarily be there," she said in a speech.Patrick Stewart rings the opening bell. Photograph: Handout/ReutersTwitter's share price was increased three times before the Thursday's launch. The company had originally estimated that it would open in a range between $17 and $20 a share, but on Monday that was increased to between $23 and $25. The price was further increased to $26 on Wednesday. But huge demand for the 70m shares put on sale by the company sent the price soaring.While most trading is now digital, the procedure for setting the opening price is low-tech. The hour-long process, which began after the opening bell at 9.30am, was managed by Twitter's British adviser, Barclays. As traders haggled on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, Barclays called out the buy-and-sell offers.With Twitter shares reportedly 30 times oversubscribed, by the time the haggling was over, they had been marked up to $45.10.Pundits are now forecasting a climbdown from the dizzying heights of the first day's trading.Pivotal Research Group analyst Brian Wieser downgraded Twitter to a sell rating with a $30 price target. "With a price that pushes into the high 30s and beyond, Twitter is simply too expensive," he wrote.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Activision says console transition behind lower Call of Duty sales | MCVSpeaking to investors this week, Activision CFO Dennis Durkin has admitted that Call of Duty: Ghosts sales are down compared to Black Ops II – which he says it's because of the console transition:"As we have said for more than a year now, console transition years are volatile and hard to predict, and this year is proving no different," Durkin said in an investor call, as reported by Seeking Alpha."Today, we announced that we had shipped into retail more than $1bn of Call of Duty: Ghosts globally on day one based on an average wholesale price. As expected, due to the console transition and digital distribution, this number is down versus last year."But it's not just a handy excuse according to MCV. The news site has discovered that Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag has sold 60 per cent fewer units than ACIII and Battlefield 4 is 69 per cent down on sales from the previous title. It'll be interesting to see how far those are made up by the release of next-gen versions.New video promotes PlayStation Plus on PS4 | CVG UKSony has revealed a new video to show off its subscription service PlayStation Plus, which will be mandatory to play online on PS4:From the article:Sony has confirmed that PS4 early adopters who subscribe to PlayStation Plus will have access to two Instant Game Collection titles at launch; shooter Resogun and platform puzzler Contrast.The latter replaces DriveClub, which was previously planned to be a launch-day Instant Game Collection title before being delayed to March.PlayStation Plus subscriptions cost $49.99/£39.99 a year or $9.99/£5.49 per month. A single subscription is applied to all three platforms; PS4, PS3 and Vita.Resogun looks amazing.Xbox One will last "conservatively 10 years" says Microsoft | GamesIndustry InternationalMicrosoft Canada's Xbox director of marketing Craig Flannagan has been speaking to Gamesindustry.biz about the forthcoming machine. He's adamant it's in a good position for the console war and that it represents a long-term investment for gamers:"Xbox One is going to start ahead, in terms of the experience we can deliver," Flannagan said. "And because we're built for the future, we're going to stay ahead. I think there is not a better experience you can buy this holiday, and there will not be a time this generation where there's a better experience you can buy than Xbox One...And it's probably going to be a pretty long generation. We're probably here for a while because we're built for the future. This is a console that will last you, conservatively a decade, if I had to put a bet down today."Double Fine Explains What Makes a Good Adventure Game | IGNHere is Double Fine's Tim Schafer talking about hat makes a good adventure game. He's so right here in his criticism of the otherwise loveable Uncharted series:"It's okay to get stuck. It's acceptable to not know what to do for a short period of time." He recounted a story of playing Uncharted 2, saying, "there's this one temple you walk into, and I knew I had to get to the ceiling of it, and I was thinking, 'oh, I think I can see a ledge there, and there's a little crack there.' And I started to get that pleasant puzzle solving feeling. And right when I was about to figure it out, this text like 'push A against post to climb wall' came up, and I was like, 'I was just about to figure that out! That's so annoying.' Why couldn't I just think about that for a little while? Have some faith. I know I was just standing there not touching the controller, but I was really going to figure it out."Some things Battlefield 4 has taught me about war | PCGamesNSteve Hogarty is just one of the funniest game writers around and here is his short essay on lessons learned about war from Battlefield 4. The stuff about opening doors is spot on. But I like this about female characters the best:There are three decent female characters who appear in Battlefield 4's campaign, and at no point in the game do they have their uniforms blasted off by a grenade. There isn't a scene in the base where you walk in on one of them showering and they sassily snap, "what's the problem sargeant, never seen a pair of military-grade jugalugs before?" You don't ever follow one of these women up a ladder and have your character sarcastically comment on her arse. The bad guy never pins one of these women against a wall and kisses her on the neck or sniffs her hair before she knees him in the penis and balls. These are things that do not happen in Battlefield 4, which is a totally praiseworthy leap forwards for videogames writing and culture. Like, actually well done.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
"We call them smartphones, but the phone is the least important part. I would love to be the one who comes up with a new name for these," saysDan Rubin, arranging the four sleek somethings delicately on the table, weighing each in his palm. "I take smartphone cameras very seriously, and I have done ever since the iPhone 4 came out, which was the first phone camera that was good enough for practical use."That was in June 2010, and Rubin traces the worldwide surge in mobile photography to that release, combined with the launch, four months later, of Instagram. "That was serendipity on a massive scale. That combination is what got me shooting every day – it's what made me a professional photographer."Rubin is a renaissance man for the digital age, working in software and product design, and pioneering a serious, professional approach to smartphone photography, which he considers no less rewarding than taking pictures on his Canon 5D Mk II. "These are the most used cameras in the world now, and because those photos are all being shared, we are seeing more of the world than ever before, which I think is fantastic. You can do a whole lot with a camera phone; under the right conditions with the right light, the right framing, the right focus, you wouldn't necessarily be able to tell a photo wasn't shot on a big camera."Smartphones have already rendered point-and-shoot cameras almost obsolete, and Rubin thinks they are now even threatening the DSLR. "Software intelligence is where they can potentially be ahead of Canon and Nikon, and already are in some respects. People look down on mobile photography, or say it's lazy, but camera phones encourage us to take more photographs, and I think the more we take photographs, the better photographers we'll be." The theory certainly works for Rubin, whosehalf-million-odd Instagram followersare constantly shocked that his photos are taken on phones. "It doesn't matter what hardware you have," he says, "the important thing is learning how to see."iPhone 5S8 megapixels, dual warm/cool flashes, iOS 7.0.3, from £549"I've owned every single model of iPhone except the 3GS, so I'm very familiar with the software and the device history. That said, I don't buy Apple products simply because I pray at the church of Steve Jobs, I'm happy to use alternative products if they're good."The best way to discuss this model is to compare it to previous iPhones, and the 5S's faster processor improves both the camera and the post-processing. The 5S uses a much-improved flash that measures the white-balance of the image in a fraction of a second before taking the picture. The flash then varies the intensity and combination of the two flashbulbs, which are different-coloured, to balance the colour of the image. It's a very effective idea, which I've never seen on any other camera."The burst mode, which takes 10 frames per second, is amazing, When I was taking street photography in India, it allowed me to capture things I could never have got any other way. It blew me away, and it reminded me of Arthur C Clarke's quotation: 'Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.'"Sony Xperia Z120.7 megapixels, 5" display, Android 4.2, £599"The Sony is the biggest physically and in terms of screen-size it's almost overwhelming, and the benefit for that size isn't apparent. It's borderline uncomfortable, and even after a week I'm not used to it, while with the Nokia I never felt that way. It also feels very clean and clinical — cold even. I was terrified whenever I held it that it was going to slip out of my hand."Having more screen real estate is good for looking at photos, but for taking photos there is a threshold, and I think the Sony has crossed it. At one point you have to say, 'I don't need a TV in my pocket.' The size of the screen and the number of megapixels are the phone's USPs, but the size ends up being more of a hindrance and the megapixel is a red herring – more megapixels don't necessarily mean a sharper image. Of all of them, the Sony is the only one that feels like it doesn't have any one standout feature which makes it take better pictures."Nokia Lumia 102041 megapixels, optical image stabilisation, Windows Phone 8, from £549.99"In terms of usability, it's a tie between the Nokia and the iPhone, but of all the phones the Nokia is the only one I don't want to give back – I have an emotional attachment to it. Nokia has always been known for making good hardware and that hasn't changed – it feels exceptionally well-made and the reason I loved it is that it feels like it's been lovingly built."It's the only phone of the four that has a slightly more colour-saturated default setting: a barely perceptible difference but a bonus for people who just want to take good snapshots. More interestingly, there is a hardware gyroscope inside the phone to perform image stabilisation, which is very impressive. It means you don't need a steady hand or a faster shutter speed because it's doing physical adjustments. As a software designer I'd say that the camera app on the Nokia is very elegantly designed – the others are garish, while this is very clean. Windows phone as a platform falls down a bit, however, because there aren't many apps available yet: you can't have either Snapseed or Instagram, and I hope that changes because I like this device. It wouldn't stop me from owning one though. As an iPhone owner I would still buy a Nokia, and that says a huge amount to me."Samsung Galaxy S4 zoom16 megapixels, external lens, Android 4.2, £449.95"The size of the lens contributes slightly better quality in certain situations. It's still a very small lens, but if you do want a camera more than a phone, then the Samsung has an edge — the physics are a just bit better. The standout feature of the big lens is the device's hardware zoom, which goes up to 10x."The zoom is brilliantly sharp and clear, and the software zooms on the other phones don't come close. The downside of it is that it's uncomfortable to hold. The exterior lens feels like it's in the way, and every time I pick it up I feel worried that I'm smudging or scratching the lens."Size is the trade-off. If you want a serious difference in quality, the hardware has to be much bigger, and that's the problem: they're trying to make it two things at once and, exactly as you might assume, it feels a bit like Frankenstein's monster."Interview by Kit Buchan
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid KitKat security: Some nice additions, and one mind-boggling blunder &gt;&gt; CITEworldJust a heads-up on the "blunder":Google, it has come to my attention viaAndroid Policethat your recent Google Play Services 4.0 update has turned off Android Device Manager's ability to act as a device administrator in some Androids.If you may recall, Google, I wrote about Android Device Manager in late September when you added remote lock and device wipe functionality. I said the new features "should make enterprises far less nervous about the search giant's mobile OS."Now, though, to quote Kris Carlon at AndroidPIT, "WTF Google?!" Why would you remove such a useful security feature that you added only weeks ago, and all without telling anyone?Google to ban external sources for Windows Chrome extensions &gt;&gt; CNET NewsFor Google, it's not enough to warn you when an extension attempts to install from outside the Chrome Web Store. Starting in January, Windows users will be able to install extensions only from the official store, as Google blocks all other extension sources.Erik Kay, Chrome's engineering director,wrote in a blog postthat the current security mechanism isn't enough. It asks users if they want to install the extension when it comes from outside the Chrome Web Store, but "bad actors" have figured out how to bypass it.This looks entirely sensible - some of the experiences of people who have had rogue extensions installed (linked in the piece) sound like Internet Explorer exploits of yore, with search engines forced on them and no way to remove them.OS X: About Mail Update for Mavericks &gt;&gt; AppleMail Update for Mavericks includes improvements to general stability and compatibility with Gmail, including the following:o Fixes an issue that prevents deleting, moving, and archiving messages for users with custom Gmail settingso Addresses an issue that may cause unread counts to be inaccurateo Includes additional fixes that improve the compatibility and stability of MailShould have been in there from the start, but at least now it might be safe for Gmail users to upgrade to Mavericks.Blockbuster to end domestic retail, DVD-by-mail services &gt;&gt; About DISHDISH Network Corporation today announced that its subsidiary, Blockbuster L.L.C., will end its retail and by mail DVD distribution operations by early-January 2014. The company will close its approximately 300 remaining US-based retail stores, as well as its distribution centers."This is not an easy decision, yet consumer demand is clearly moving to digital distribution of video entertainment," said Joseph P. Clayton, DISH president and chief executive officer. "Despite our closing of the physical distribution elements of the business, we continue to see value in the Blockbuster brand, and we expect to leverage that brand as we continue to expand our digital offerings."What about the rural locations which have lousy internet services? They seem to be too uneconomic to serve. This is the new digital divide: by location. A map of existing Blockbuster stores would be helpful.Micromax aims to be top smartphone player by Q3 of 2013 &gt;&gt; The HinduAccording to IDC figures for Q2 of 2013, Micromax stayed at No 2 spot and crossed the 2m units mark in shipments. "The vendor is banking on the wave of phablet-driven smartphone adoption and is pushing the Canvas range of devices with bigger screens and compelling imaging capabilities," IDC said.Mr Sharma said IDC data substantiates its success, considering the fact that the maximum growth in Indian smartphone category has happened 5in-6.99in category which has grown 17 times year on year and the phablet share has steadily risen to 30 per cent of the smartphone market in Q2.Micromax has increased its share from 18.8% in the last quarter to 22%.Meet ART, Part 1: the new super-fast Android runtime Google has been working on in secret for over two years debuts in KitKat &gt;&gt; Android PoliceFor now, the potential gains in efficiency are difficult to gauge based on the version of ART currently shipping with KitKat, so it isn't representative of what will be possible once it has been extensively optimized. Thus far, estimates and some benchmarks suggest that the new runtime is already capable of cutting execution time in half for most applications. This means that long-running, processor-intensive tasks will be able to finish faster, allowing the system to idle more often and for longer. Regular applications will also benefit from smoother animations and more instantaneous responses to touch and other sensor data. Additionally, now that the typical device contains a quad-core (or greater) processor, many situations will call for activating fewer cores, and it may be possible to make even better use of the lower-powered cores in ARM's big.LITTLE architecture. How much this improves battery life and performance will vary quite a bit based on usage scenarios and hardware, but the results could be substantial.It's a man's, man's, man's phone &gt;&gt; MediumZeynep Tufekci:Since officials often claimed that tear gas was used only on vandals and violent protesters, I wanted to document these particularly egregious circumstances. Almost by reflex, I pulled out my phone, a Google Nexus 4, which I had been using on this trip as my main device, sometimes under quite challenging circumstances.And as my lungs, eyes and nose burned with the pain of the lachrymatory agent released from multiple capsules that had fallen around me, I started cursing.I cursed the gendered nature of tech design that has written out women from the group of legitimate users of phones as portable devices to be used on-the-go.I cursed that what was taken for granted by the male designers and male users of modern phones was simply not available to me.As she says, she doesn't want a pink phone, or one with kittens; "I merely want a design that acknowledges that women exist, and women often have smaller hands than men."Bitcoin is a joke &gt;&gt; Business InsiderJoe Wiesenthal (aka The Stalwart):Yes, there are PR stunts about bars and other shops accepting bitcoins. And there is a Bitcoin ATM for some reason. But mostly Bitcoin is a speculative vehicle. And really, you'd be insane to actually conduct a sizable amount of commerce in bitcoins. That's because the price swings so wildly, that the next day, there's a good chance that one of the parties will have gotten royally screwed. Either the purchaser of the good will have ended up totally blowing a huge opportunity (by not holding longer) or the seller will be totally screwed (if Bitcoin instantly plunges).Samsung Galaxy S4 Review: six months later &gt;&gt; WhistleOutJoseph Hanlon has been using it as his main phone for the past six months:The Galaxy S4 is packed to the gills with tricks, tweaks and features; what some more unkind reviews might call gimmicks. So, after six-months of use, which features do I use?The pedometer is a great addition and something I check almost everyday. I'm not sure how accurate it is, and I don't need it to be super accurate. It gives me a decent guide to how many steps I take each day, so much that I have a fair idea of how many steps are in each part of my daily routine.Apart from that, I don't use any of the unique Samsung 'features' at all. I turned off the Smart Stay and Smart Scroll eye tracking settings shortly after I finished the review, because they just don't work that well. Smart Scroll means you basically have to nod each time you want to scroll down a webpage, and Smart Stay has the screen turning off when it can't detect your eyes properly.Similarly, the Air Gesture control is a neat party trick (I didn't say gimmick) but it fails the everyday use test as well.Hans Rosling: Do you know more about the world than a chimpanzee? &gt;&gt; BBC NewsWith the population of the world at seven billion and rising, many fear a shortage of resources as well as a shortage of space. Swedish professor Hans Rosling, however, says it's time for a reality check.When pollsters got 1,000 British people to take Rosling's "ignorance survey" in May this year, the results suggested they knew "less about the world than chimpanzees", he says.Take a version of the test in this quiz, compare your results with the British respondents', then read Hans Rosling'sfive reasons the world is in better shape than we think.You're very well informed if you score six or more.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
The photo sharing service Instagram has taken steps to block certain hashtags in a bid to stamp out the sale of illegal drugs via its users.The social networking site – where people post and comment on photographs and videos – announced the move after a BBC investigation, which found users were showing narcotics and advertising their sale.Most of the drug sales appear to have taken place in the US, according to the#BBCtrendingstrand on the broadcaster's website.Among the illegal drugs advertised on Instagram were MDMA and other amphetamine-related substances.One ad posted below an image of bags of marijuana said: "Just getting a few packs ready for tomorrow morning … Place your order today, it gets shipped out at 8am tomorrow."Another photo displayed a selection of pills with the caption: "$2 a pop for xans, $10 a pop for roxys " – a reference to Xanax, a psychoactive anxiety treatment, and Roxicodone, an opiate used to treat pain.Both drugs are available on prescription in the US and the UK, but are also traded on the black market.The BBC reported that many deals were finalised via instant messaging apps such asWhatsApporKik, allowing messages to be kept private.Instagram, which is owned by Facebook, has a policy of acting on reported inappropriate activity.But it told the BBC it would be impractical and invasive to actively search for such material.Its terms of service state: "You may not use the service for any illegal or unauthorised purpose."A spokeswoman told the BBC: "Instagram has a clear set of rules about what is and isn't allowed on the site."We encourage people who come across illegal or inappropriate content to report it to us using the built-in reporting tools next to every photo, video or comment, so we can take action."People can't buy things on Instagram, we are simply a place where people share photos and videos."
5.06pmETSummaryTwitter&apos;s stock-market debut &quot;exceeded expectations&quot; on Thursday,write my colleagues Dominic Rushe and Juliette Garside.The company set a share price of $26 on Tuesday but fierce bidding for the limited number of shares available drove that price up to over $45 as the stock market opened, a rise of 73%. In early trading the price at one point topped $50. It closed the day at $44.90.Twitter&apos;s float price was considered restrained, and analysts had been forecasting a surge on the first day of trading, but the scale of the demand was unexpected. Thirteen years since the dotcom crash, there were warnings of a new technology bubble.&quot;I anticipated a very strong open, but when you start to approach these levels, this is absolute froth,&quot; said Jeffrey Sica, president of Sica Wealth Management in New Jersey. &quot;There is nothing supporting this range. I think this is just way, way above what realistically we should be considering.&quot;The float instantly made billionaires of co-founders Ev Williams and Jack Dorsey. Williams owns 59.6m shares, valued at more than $2.69bn. Dorsey holds another 23.4m shares, valued at over $1bn. But the biggest winner was Twitter&apos;s largest shareholder, Rizvi Traverse. The private equity group run by reclusive New Yorker Suhail Rizvi holds nearly $4bn worth of the stock, and its Saudi client Prince Alwaleed bin Talal will also share in the bonanza, having taken an early bet on Twitter.That&apos;s it for our live coverage today. Thanks for reading.Updatedat 5.08pm ET4.43pmETShares of Twitter went on sale to the public for the first time Thursday, instantly leaping more than 70 percent above their offering price in a dazzling debut that exceeded even Wall Street&apos;s lofty hopes,according to AP:By the closing bell, the social network that reinvented global communication in 140-character bursts was valued at $31 billion nearly as much as Yahoo Inc., an Internet icon from another era, and just below Kraft Foods, the grocery conglomerate founded more than a century ago.Twitter, which has never turned a profit in the seven years since it was founded, worked hard to temper expectations ahead of the IPO, but all that was swiftly forgotten with the stock&apos;s opening surge.The most anticipated initial public offering of the year was carefully orchestrated to avoid the glitches and eventual letdown that surrounded Facebook&apos;s first appearance on the Nasdaq 18 months ago.Trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol &quot;TWTR,&quot; shares opened at $45.10, 73 percent above their initial offering price.In the first few hours, the stock jumped as high as $50.09. Most of those gains held throughout the day, with Twitterclosing at 44.90, despite a broader market decline.Updatedat 5.07pm ET4.04pmETTwitter closes at $44.90 per shareSo that&apos;s it.Twitter closes at $44.90on its first day of trading. That is up 73% on the $26 price per share the company set, but down from the $45.10 that it started trading at this morning. Twitter&apos;s share price was as high as $50.09 today, while more than 100m of its shares were traded.Updatedat 4.07pm ET3.58pmETAs we wait to seewhat price Twitter closes at, here&apos;s some perspective:Updatedat 3.59pm ET3.34pmETMore suggestions that Twitter could have got more $$$&quot;In my mind they certainly could&apos;ve raised the price on this thing and gone into the low 30s,&quot; saysKen Polcari, director of the NYSE floor division at O&apos;Neil Securities.From an outsider looking in I would say they were overly cautious because they didn&apos;t want a disaster on their hands [...] I&apos;m sure the company didn&apos;t want a Facebook debacle, I get that, but I think they were overly cautious and it cost them some money.2.57pmETHere&apos;s theTwitter teamon the floor of the New York Stock Exchange this morning. The photo was taken moments after they all got loads more money from the launch. TWTR is currently trading up at $48.15. We&apos;ll see where it is when the stock exchange closes at 4pm.Twitter CEO Dick Costolo (R) celebrates the Twitter IPO with Twitter founders Jack Dorsey (L), Biz Stone (2nd L) and Evan Williams on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Photograph: Brendan McDermid/Reuters2.40pmETThe Guardian&apos;s US finance and economics editor,Heidi Moore, wants to know your predictions for how Twitter&apos;s stock will perform over the coming weeks.&quot;Readers, here&apos;s your chance to try to predict a stock&apos;s level like a professional. Here&apos;s our question to you: Where do you think Twitter&apos;s stock will trade in 15, 30, and 45 days after its IPO?&quot;You can stick your guesses in here:Loading...2.25pmETDid Twitter undervalue itself?&quot;In hindsight when you look at this you almost think they left a little too much money on the table,&quot;Roger Entnerfrom Recon Analytics has told the Associated Press.What Entner means, AP says, is that Twitter raised $1.8 billion Wednesday night when it sold 70 million shares at $26 each. Had it priced the stock at $30, for instance, the company would have taken away $2.1 billion. At $35, it would have reaped nearly $2.5 billion.1.32pmET“Twitter’s IPO shows the sublime and ridiculous nature of our capital markets,&quot; saysPeter Garnry, head of equity strategy at Saxo Bank.Sublime because the IPO went smoothly in terms of trading, but also because it shows how the capitalist system allocates capital to growth companies. But the IPO is also ridiculous because these tech IPOs have become like a video game cheered by ordinary people and the media.The valuation at these price levels is disconnected from any logical calculation and reflects a huge downside risk for investors if Twitter does not meet expectations at every quarterly earnings release from now on. For Twitter it is the end of a long journey towards the public market. For investors this is the beginning of nerve-racking journey of whether Twitter can deliver on the huge expectations.1.10pmETHere&apos;s a graph ofTwitter&apos;s performance over the first couple of hours. The bottom bar chart shows the volume of trading has dropped since the massive interest at launch:Twitter's performance thus far. Photograph: GoogleGemma Godfrey, who is apparently the&quot;most popular businesswoman on Twitter&quot;, sends this summary:A Quick Buck In 140 Characters:#TwitterIPOprice up&gt;70% -evidence of investor scramble to chase mkt return (cc@adamgabbatt)&mdash; Gemma Godfrey (@GCGodfrey)November 7, 2013Updatedat 1.10pm ET12.38pmETReutershas this snappy report on the Twitter IPO:Twitter Inc soared as much as 92 percent in its first day of trading on Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange as investors snapped up shares in the popular microblogging site in a frenzy that recalled the days of the dot-com bubble.The shares opened at $45.10 a share, up from the initial public offering price of $26 set on Wednesday, then added to those gains, hitting a high of $50. They were up 73.7 percent to $45.15 at midday.Sources said the flotation drew strong demand, with investors asking for 30 times the number of shares on offer as they bet on potential growth at the money-losing social media company.The opening price valued the shares at about 22 times forecast 2014 sales, nearly double that multiple at social media rivals Facebook Inc and LinkedIn Corp.The shares opened 73 percent above the $26 initial public offering price set on Wednesday, making it the biggest in a series of huge opening day &quot;pops&quot; for IPOs. Including restricted share units and other securities that could be exercised in the coming months, the company&apos;s market value was over $28 billion.Updatedat 12.38pm ET12.27pmETSo now you know:Here&#39;s why Patrick Stewart rang the opening bell to celebrate#TwitterIPO:http://t.co/0mSEPoMZk2pic.twitter.com/7mrw4SEvjg&mdash; Mother Jones (@MotherJones)November 7, 201312.08pmETThe Guardian&apos;s Dominic Rushe has been speaking toLarry Chiagouris, professor of marketing at Pace University, who has poured morecold wateron the Twitter fire.Twitter’s entire business model is based on advertising but not on the ads it has but on the ads it hopes one day it might get. As yet we have no evidence that it will ever get those ads and at this valuation, that’s a problem.12.03pmETThose savvy internet-types over at the Associated Press have put together a &quot;glossary&quot; of Twitter terms, because they reckon that &quot;Twitter-specific lingo that could look likealphabet soupto the uninitiated&quot;.I like &quot;Egg&quot; best:Tweet: That 140-character message sent out on Twitter. Also, the sound a small bird makes.Follow: Find an account you like? Click &quot;follow&quot; to have their tweets show up in your feed.RT: Stands for retweet, or resubmitting someone else&apos;s tweet to your followers.HT: Hat Tip, means you are sharing a link or idea someone else shared first, so you&apos;re giving them credit. Not quite a retweet.DM: Direct Message, a private message sent to another user. You can send it only to people who follow you.@: Add before someone&apos;s name to reply to them publicly. It&apos;s only shown in the feeds of those who follow both of you.Egg: Unless you upload a profile photo, an egg will show up in its place. Often a sign of a spam account, or someone new to Twitter.This is what Twitter looks like to your grandad. Apparently. Photograph: /Soup11.42amETEarlier, in a fit of whimsy, I asked readers to send in their first tweets. The response has been overwhelming.Fourpeople have replied! Each of them win a Guardianrubbereraser:@GuardianUS&quot;What&#39;s the frequency Kennith?&quot;#tbt#tlot&mdash; Lou Write (@one4ethanol)November 7, 2013@GuardianUSMy first tweet? A retweet: Fuck me it&#39;s Mr Burns and Smithers#selectcommittee&mdash; shaun jeffries (@jeffriesxu)November 7, 2013“@GuardianUS: What was the first tweet you ever sent?http://t.co/WTJQPqP9Iq” Mine: &quot;Finally joined Twitter. We&#39;ll see how this goes.&quot;&mdash; Nate R (@NatesLAlife)November 7, 2013AndMyles Winstonetakes first prize for sheer longevity:@AdamGabbattYou asked for first tweets: Mine was &#39;joining twitter?&#39; and I found an @ reply to you from way back in November 2009&mdash; Myles Winstone (@bruthamyles)November 7, 2013Updatedat 11.46am ET11.30amETSome timely realism fromWired, which observes that &quot;outside of Wall Street and Silicon Valley,it’s hard to get excited about the Twitter IPO. And few people do.&quot; The tech magazine then twists the knife by noting that &quot;the truth is that few people here in the States actually use the thing&quot;.Despite all the froth around Twitter’s IPO, the company isn’t all that big, with a valuation, at the moment, of around $31.5 billion. Rival Facebook clocks in at around $120 billion, while an icon of the last tech boom, Amazon, is worth $163 billion. Google is at $342 billion. Twitter is closer to being an Intuit or Adobe than the next Facebook.Part of that difference is down to the fact thatTwitter bleeds cash while Facebook gushes profit. After losing $80 million last year, Twitter posted a net loss of $134 million for the first nine months of this year, according to a companyfilingwith the Securities and Exchange Commission. It has never been profitable. Facebook, in contrast, grew profits for at least three years to $1 billion before it went public.But it’s not just that Twitter is small and unprofitable. The truth is that few people here in the States actually use the thing. The social network remains a niche product, beloved by journalists, celebrities, and a hard core of miscellaneous obsessive users — but few others.Unlike Facebook, it’s not a ubiquitous online utility, and you’re not going to find grandma on there. Twitter has only 53 million monthly active users in the U.S., where it earns most of its ad dollars, as of the third quarter of this calendar year. That’s less than a quarter of its total number of users. Facebook reaches180 millionto199 millionpeople in the U.S.11.20amETTwitter chairman Jack Dorseyhas been tweeting about the launch. Dorsey owns 23.4m shares in the company, and isreportedlyplanning to take his other start-up, Square, public in 2014 too.just setting up our$twtrhttps://t.co/OqQRtzaw9v&mdash; Jack Dorsey (@jack)November 7, 2013A thank you and congratulations to@dickc,@mgupta,@vijaya,@gabrielstricker, and the@Twitterteam!$TWTR&mdash; Jack Dorsey (@jack)November 7, 201311.12amETThat $45.10 opening share price is up 73% on the IPO price of $26.Twitter is trading under the symbol TWTR.The share price values Twitter at $31.3bn, according to the Associated Press.10.56amETThe Twitter trading is&quot;absolutely stunning&quot;given the mooted launch price a week ago was around $17-$20, saysJoshua Raymond from City Index.We knew Twitter shares would be in high demand but perhaps this still goes down as hugely impressive, and is further evidence of the hunger to invest in innovative new media types such as social media. IPO’s are of course highly volatile so whilst this would appear to be a very successful market debut for Twitter, we must take a step back and judge investor appetite over a longer period of time.10.51amETTwitter stock opens at $45.10Twitter opens at $45.10 per share at 10.50am. It is trading just above that now.Twitter trading price early on 7 November 2013 Photograph: /CNBCUpdatedat 10.57am ET10.50amETJim Crameris the noisy guy from CNBC/Arrested Development.10.42amETEmmett Kilduff, CEO of Eagle Alpha, a company that analyses online data, has put together a report looking at the Twitter IPO.My colleague Dominic Rushe reports that Kilduff said the IPO looked to have been very well managed, but warned there were issues ahead. In particular Kilduff said advertisers wanted to see improvements in Twitter&apos;s ad platform and marketing.&quot;We were also incredibly surprised by the number of fake followers there were. Estimates suggest that Britney Spears has as many as 36%, that’s around 7 million users, yet we found few comments online by advertisers and advertising agencies complaining about this,&quot; Kilduff wrote.Updatedat 10.44am ET10.38amETTwitter CEO Dick Costolowas on CNBC this morning as the company went public.&quot;We&apos;re all very proud at the company of everything that we&apos;ve accomplished. [...] It&apos;s been our users that have gotten us to where we have got today. But I would also say that we have a lot of work ahead of us, a lot of work to do.&quot;&quot;All the capital raised today is going into the company,&quot; Costolo said. Asked about new user growth in the US, which is said to be slowing and was a concern for some investors ahead of the launch, Costolo said:We have a tremendous set of thoguhts and startegies to increase the slope of the growth curve. I would consider some of them tactics, some of them strategies. [...] There is an entire set of strategies like the onboarding experience into Twitter, from that moment you hear about it and you come to the service and sign up, to really getting it, understanding it and becoming active on the platform. [...] It&apos;s all about making it very simple and easy for new users to come to the platform, to understand what&apos;s going on on the platform, engage with content easily and immediately on the platform.Thanks toMatthew Keysfor the audio.Updatedat 10.48am ET10.30amETThe scene down atWall Street:Twitter opens with a bang, prices over $45 a share on trading floorhttp://t.co/kXjYf9oidRpic.twitter.com/BcCrq1mTYU&mdash; The Verge (@verge)November 7, 201310.27amET&quot;Before the dancing bears start invading the New York Stock Exchange and strolling jugglers on stilts whirl us up into this particular capitalist circus, maybe it&apos;s a good time to stand back and put the Twitter IPO in perspective,&quot; writes Guardian US finance editorHeidi Moore.For one thing, let&apos;s take that size: $1.8 billion. Yes, that makes it the biggest tech IPO since Facebook, but that&apos;s like comparing Earth to Jupiter. The Facebook IPO was $16 billion, which is many, many little Twitters. The Google IPO, at $1.9 billion, was also bigger. Twitter is not the biggest IPO of all time; it&apos;s not even the biggest IPO of 2013. According to Thomson Reuters, the Twitter debut is the seventh-largest IPO this year.There are also key questions about whether Twitter should be worth that much. At these prices, the company is worth 33 times its sales. That&apos;s remarkable because Twitter&apos;s active users number about 232 million, while Facebook, with one billion active users, has stock that trades at about half that, or 17 times sales. Google, which we all acknowledge as our Internet overlord, has shares that go for only five times sales.The Twitter IPO is not a capitalist rave. No one will make money except the founders and some people who are already millionaires. So let&apos;s all pace ourselves.Updatedat 10.41am ET10.02amETAccording to CNBC, citing &quot;initial reports&quot;, Twitter is trading at around$44-45 per shareafter opening at $26. We&apos;re waiting for an official price.Updatedat 10.04am ET9.55amETWe&apos;re waiting to hearthe price Twitter is trading at.CNBC has live, breathless coveragefrom the floor of the New York Stocjk Exchange, if that&apos;s your thing.In the meantime, here is the first ever tweet by Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey:just setting up my twttr&mdash; Jack Dorsey (@jack)March 21, 2006And hey! Here&apos;s my first tweet:confused.&mdash; Adam Gabbatt (@AdamGabbatt)February 4, 2009Send me your first Twitter post if you like,@adamgabbatt. (p.s.Buzzfeed has this explaineron how to find your first tweet.)Updatedat 10.11am ET9.53amETThe fact that Twitter is selling its shares doesn&apos;t meanany old plebcan go and buy a slice of the company. Even savvy investors like me, with my 124 shares in BT Group PLC, will have to wait to add to our portfolios.The vast majority of shares are sold to mutual funds and investment bankers and that sort of thing,according to USA Today.The Guardian&apos;s Heidi Mooreexplains everything about the Twitter IPO here.Updatedat 10.03am ET9.37amETHurrah! Twitter is now public! AndSir Patrick Stewartwas the one to peal the bell!Patrick Stewart from Star Trek, not what I was expecting#twitterIPOpic.twitter.com/niZTNoSmnN&mdash; John McDuling (@jmcduling)November 7, 2013The official @Twitter has also tweeted about the Twitter launch. A Twitter user might describe this as &quot;meta&quot; and they might also write &quot;lol&quot;:#Ring!&mdash; Twitter (@twitter)November 7, 2013Updatedat 9.59am ET9.31amETOne of the fears for Twitter&apos;s founders and investors is that today&apos;s debut mirrors Facebook&apos;s IPO last May. That sale &quot;proved a disaster&quot;,writes my colleagueDominic Rushe:Facebook sold its shares at $38 – the top end of the range it had set – and found that long-term investors were not keen to hold the stock after reports that the company was struggling to make money from mobile advertising. Shares slumped shortly after the IPO and it took a year for the shares to pass the price they launched at. But pricing Twitter&apos;s offer too low would reduce the money the company could raise.Before the pricing, Tomas Freyman, director of valuations at BDO, worried that history was about to repeat itself. &quot;Despite Twitter&apos;s price range valuing being more modest than some of the numbers bandied about over the last few weeks, this is still very high for a company that has yet to make any profits,&quot; he said. &quot;Value in Twitter is being largely driven by the hype surrounding the brand and the recent successes of other online businesses including Google, LinkedIn and Facebook, despite the latter&apos;s early wobbles.9.24amETTwitter is going public at 9.30am.The technology company will be listed on the New York Stock Exchange, and the company will be selling 70m shares at a price of $26 per share.The $26-per-share pricing gives the company – which has not made a profit for the last three years – a value of $14.2bn.The launch will net hundreds and hundreds of millions for some lucky Silicon Valley investors. Co-founder Evan Williams is due to make $1.47bn from the sale. Fellow co-founder Jack Dorsey could make around half that. Other backers including Amazon founder and Washington Post-rescuer Jeff Bezos could also rake in small fortunes to add to their already large ones.Twitter madeits first public financial statement last monthahead of the big launch. It showed that it lost $79.4m in 2012 and was on track to lose even more in 2013.Those losses are not expected to deter investors from clamouring for a piece of Twitter today, however. Despite its poor financial performance Twitter has promising mobile stats and is set to turn a profit in 2015.How will Twitter fare? Will its share price soar above $26? Or drop below? Or neither? Follow live coverage of all the furore here.
Driverless cars will transport people through the streets of Milton Keynes from 2015, in the biggest test yet of the futuristic vehicles in Britain.Vince Cable, the business secretary, announced that 20 of the vehicles will travel on special pathways separated from pedestrians around the Buckinghamshire town's shopping centre.By mid-2017 it is planned that 100 fully autonomous cars will be in operation, sharing pathways with pedestrians and equipped with sensors to avoid collisions.The driverless pods, which can carry two people each, will be able to travel at a maximum speed of 12mph and come with screen that allows passengers to check email and browse the internet while being ferried to their destination."By 2050, very few – if any – new cars will be powered solely by the traditional internal combustion engines, so it is important that the UK car industry is at the cutting edge of low-carbon technologies," Cable said."Driverless cars are another invention that has the potential to generate the kind of high-skilled jobs we want Britain to be famous for, as well as cutting congestion and pollution and improving road safety."Cable unveiled the £1.5m project on a visit to Northampton on Thursday, where he also announced a £75m fund to produce and test low-carbon engines.While the exact specification of the pods is yet to be finalised, a prototype image of the vehicle has three wheels and a see-through lid that flips up for passengers to step in or out. Each journey could cost £2, although that will be subject to a study next year.Initially the driverless cars will ferry passengers from the town's rail station to its shopping centre just over a mile away – currently a 20-minute uphill walk.One person close to the project said the exact make and model of the cars was yet to be decided, but that one option under consideration was the EN-V by General Motors, dubbed the "bubble car", which was first unveiled in 2010.Most big carmakers – including Nissan, Toyota and Volvo – are already developing self-driving technology and incorporating it into models on Britain's roads.Volvo claimed a first in August when it tested a car with "steer assist", which took control of the brakes, engine and steering from the driver at the press of two buttons.In California, Google has claimed that its driverless cars have travelled 400,000 miles without a crash.But it is not the technology behind autonomous vehicles that is problematic, according to Professor Martin Spring of Lancaster University, it is how they will fit into the existing road system."This is an important experiment to have, but we could miss an opportunity by trying to make it fit into a system designed for humans," he said, describing insurance claims as one area of uncertainty for self-driving cars.Geoff Snelson, strategy director at Milton Keynes council, said there was some trepidation about the plans – "some have said 'Crikey, it'll never be safe'" – but that it added to the town's reputation as a place to experiment with novel technologies."Locally the immediate reaction has been overwhelmingly interest and excitement," he said."We've had questions about how it will work in practice but the initial response is people are very, very excited. We're hoping people will be queuing up to use the cars and will see it as a point of interest to come visit Milton Keynes."The early collaborators on the project are engineering consultancy firm Arup,Transport Systems Catapult,the Automotive Council UKand Cambridge and Oxford Universities.
Read the first paragraph here, and then see if you can spot the flaw in the sentence that follows. (It comes fromhere, but it just happens to be a convenient example.)It’s been 20 months since we went hands-on with Nike’s first FuelBand, and despite assumptions at the time that the accompanying FuelBand app would land on Android in the not-too-distant future, the activity-tracking wristband remains compatible with iOS for now, even as we approach the brand new FuelBand launch next week.For many, this glaring omission in Nike’s technological armory is astounding given that, well, Android represents somewhere in the region of 80% of the smartphone market.So what&apos;s wrong with the sentence? After all, in the third quarter of 2013 Android did have around 80% of worldwide market share. That&apos;s correct -here are the ABI research figures.It&apos;s simply wrong, though, to extrapolate from that to think that four in five smartphones in peoples&apos; hands are Android-powered. Here&apos;s the reality: at the time this was written, more than 40% of the smartphones in use in the US (a key market for Nike) were iPhones. Only about 51% of the smartphones in peoples&apos; hands in the US are Android phones. The ratios are more in Android&apos;s favour elsewhere, but nowhere outside of China (and perhaps India) would you find four in five smartphone owners using an Android phone.&quot;Market share&quot; and other phrases can lead you astray. So let&apos;s clarify those terms.OK, so - what is market share?It&apos;s a snapshot of how many items were sold (or maybe shipped) in a market over a specific period. So, for example, you might be told that in the most recent financial quarter (three-month period), sales data shows that the market share in country Z for the Widget variants wasWidget A: 80%Widget B: 15%Widget C: 5%So that means that 80% of people in country Z use Widget A?No, it doesn&apos;t. In fact, you can&apos;t draw any conclusions at all about how many people in country Z use Widget A from that &quot;market share&quot; figure.Huh? But it says market share! It&apos;s a number and everything!Yes, it does. But market share is a measure of sales. Only in the specific case where the market is saturated - that is, everyone who wants a Widget has one, so that now the market is essentially just replacements - does market share probably tally with &quot;installed base&quot;.Installed base? What&apos;s that?It&apos;s a measure of how many of something are already in use. So if 100 million people are using Widgets, there&apos;s an installed base of 100m.Now, let&apos;s suppose further that there are different kinds of Widgets - A, B, and C - and that the breakdown in installed base of Widgets is that20m have A50m have B30m have C.Ah - so now this market share data - A has 80%, B has 15% and C has 5% - means that A is starting to take over, right? Its market share is bigger!It might be the case, but you can&apos;t draw that conclusion from this data. First, you don&apos;t knowhow manywidgets were sold/shipped in that period.What if only 10 were sold? That wouldn&apos;t make much impact on an installed base of a hundred million.Second, you don&apos;t know if the market is expanding (or contracting, though few do in technology). If the market is expanding, then some are going to new users who didn&apos;t previously have Widgets.Hang on. Why all this sold/shipped stuff?Many technology transactions, for hardware at least, involve intermediaries. Handset manufacturers make handsets and then sell them to carriers, who sell them on to customers. The handset maker will record the number of handsets &quot;shipped&quot;. But that doesn&apos;t mean they&apos;re in the hands of customers. If something goes wrong, then the carrier will send unsold handsets back. Different manufacturers have different rules on quite how they define &quot;shipped&quot;, but generally it&apos;s when they receive money for them from someone else, who takes ownership.That doesn&apos;t mean that they will reach customers, though. For instance, the HTC First – an Android phone built by HTC to have the Facebook Home profile built in – sold so poorly thatAT&amp;T dumped it; the unsold inventory went back to HTC. Shipped, but not sold, and definitely not in customers&apos; hands.In general, though, this distinction isn&apos;t important. Analysts call shipments to intermediaries &quot;sell-in&quot;; the total number that actually reaches customers is &quot;sell-through&quot;.Often they&apos;re pretty close, though sometimes (such as ahead of big launches) the &quot;sell-in&quot; can fall or rise as handset makers try to get the last of an old model out of the system, or try to pack lots of a new one in. BlackBerry indulged in a lot of &quot;sell-in&quot; of its Z10 handset after its launch in January 2013. The &quot;sell-through&quot; to customers was rather more limited.Fine. So installed base and market share aren&apos;t the same. What can we deduce from market share then?Not very much, initially. Consider all the variables, even if we only look at country Z - where, you&apos;ll recall, 20m use Widget A, 50m have B, and 30m have C.Let&apos;s also suppose that the market share numbers for the latest quarter - 80% A, 15% B, 5% C - was spread among 10m units. So sales (assuming no sell-in/sell-through shenanigans) were 8m for A, 1.5m for B, 0.5m for C.I&apos;ve got it! There are now 28 million A users, 51.5 million B users, 30.5 million C users. This is easy.No, you can&apos;t say that. You don&apos;t have enough data.Why not? We have the market share, and we have the installed base. Add one to the other – there you are.But you don&apos;t know whether the market is staying the same size or expanding; and you don&apos;t know what the replacement rate is for A, B and C. What if everyone who buys one of those widgets is just replacing an old one? Then the installed base stays the same size, and the ratio of users stays the same size.On the other hand, if the market is just expanding, with no replacement of existing Widgets, then you would see the 28/51.5/30.5 breakdown suggested above.In reality, you&apos;ll see something in between: some Widgets go to new users, and some go to existing users. In general, the larger the installed base, the more units will go to replacing old ones. (For example, most people replace their phone every couple of years, so a large installed base of phones has constant &quot;churn&quot;.)The point is, without that extra data, you can&apos;t know how the installed base is changing.Modelling how the installed base is changing for large groupings like the Apple and Android installed base is a challenge for analysts: you have to model how often people replace their device, and how many of them are out there, and how fast the overall market is growing. This is why they fall upon any tidbit of information that might hint at &quot;installed base&quot; eagerly.There&apos;s a simple refutation of the idea that &quot;80% market share for Android&quot; means that four in five smartphone owners is using an Android device, though. And it comes from Google&apos;sAndroid developer dashboard.Google's Android dashboard for the seven days to 1 November 2013, showing the version of Android used by devices connecting to Google Play. Photograph: /Public domainHere&apos;s the image for the seven days to 1 November 2013, showing what version of Android was used by devices connecting to Google Play. Among them is &quot;Froyo&quot; (2.2) and &quot;Honeycomb&quot; (3.0). You can&apos;t actually buy new Android devices running either of those. Yet both make up a notable proportion. The newest software, &quot;Jelly Bean&quot; (which actually covers three different numbering versions), accounts for 52.1% of the devices. Yet Jelly Bean is the software powering all those new Android phones – the ones that were the 80% in the past quarter. Clearly, the installed base doesn&apos;t reflect the market share number.Fine. But look, I saw some figures which said that last year Apple&apos;s market share in tablets was 50%, and now it&apos;s 30%. So Apple&apos;s selling fewer tablets, right?No, that&apos;s not what that data tells you. What if the total number of tablets being sold has doubled? If last year there were 100m tablets sold in total, and this year 200m, then last year the figures would be 50m tablets and this year 60m. (Those aren&apos;t the numbers. They&apos;re just for illustration.)So if you don&apos;t have the absolute numbers, you don&apos;t know what&apos;s happening. Those sort of year-to-year comparisons can be helpful to visualise changes in the market landscape, but in fast-changing markets it&apos;s not enough just to quote a single number. In some ways it obscures more than it reveals.(Note that Google&apos;s diagram above doesn&apos;t have any numbers beyond the &quot;share&quot;; we don&apos;t know if more devices connected to Google Play, and if they did, how many more that was compared to a month or year ago.)Here&apos;s an example, from YouGov in 2013, whichshowed Apple losing market share. Its share of the installed base had fallen, YouGov said, from 73% to 63% (note that unusually, this was an &quot;installed base share&quot;, not a &quot;sales market share&quot;).YouGov's UK tablet ownership share figures, showing Apple losing market share from 1Q 2012 to 1Q 2013. Photograph: /GuimAnd yet putting in the figures for how many units were bought showed that Apple had increased its installed base and increased itsleadin that installed base. That&apos;s counterintuitive. Yet it emerges directly from the calculation: the iPad installed base had gone from 2m to 5.3m; it had gone from having 0.6m more tablets than all its rivals combined, to having 3.1m more.This doesn&apos;t mean there won&apos;t be more non-iPad tablets than iPads at some point. But it does mean that you need to enquire more carefully about absolute numbers when you&apos;re presented with the word &quot;share&quot;. It&apos;s absolute numbers that tend to matter.How the UK tablet installed base actually changed from 1Q 2012 to 1Q 2013, according to YouGov's numbers. Photograph: /GuimBut if the market share figure is so useless, why does everyone quote it all the time?Now we get to the key point. Because it&apos;s easy to measure market share – much easier than measuring installed base, which requires large panels of people who you interview on a regular, repeated basis. (ComScore does this in the US, where it provides a picture of the installed base of smartphone users that is consistent back to the end of 2009. Itsfigures for the three months to September 2013show a 51.8%installed basefor Android - that&apos;s 76.6m - and 40.6% for iPhone - that&apos;s 60m. It&apos;s not 80% Android; not even close.)Plus &quot;market share&quot; gives journalists who like nothing better than a metaphorical horse race something to write about - look at the preponderance of polls, especially in the US presidential election. Trouble is, it doesn&apos;t necessarily give us useful information.Market share does tell us who&apos;s shipping the most of something. If you put it together with other things that matter to businesses – such as profits and revenues – it can be illuminating about who is doing business most effectively. And it can tell you how a market is changing, if you have a time series.Unfortunately some people don&apos;t understand howlittlemarket share on its own tells you. Which leads them to focus on those figures alone, and to misinterpret them, like the extract quoted at the top.Does anything else make market share an unreliable predictor of installed base?&quot;Market share&quot; tends to measure things that are sold new. But secondhand markets can also be significant. Some people buy a new TV and get rid of the old one at the local dump; others just move the old one to a different room. If the new TV is a &quot;smart&quot; TV and the old one wasn&apos;t, in the first case the installed base of smart TVs in that house is 100%; in the second, it&apos;s 50%.However secondhand use is difficult to measure through any sales mechanism, and it can make calculations about the installed base harder. (In effect, it changes the replacement rate for a device.) If there&apos;s a significant difference in secondhand use/ownership between Widget A, Widget B and Widget C, your market share numbers are an even less good guide to the installed base.Who cares about installed base, anyway?App developers are a key market, as are accessory makers and users considering what their next purchase should be (because you&apos;re more likely to get repairs, support and linked services if the installed base is larger). The article linked at the top is all about that installed base/developer conundrum. The lack of an installed base (despite &quot;market share&quot; numbers) is typically why you can&apos;t get an app for a new platform: developers need to have reason to believe their effort won&apos;t be wasted.Wait a minute, though. Windows runs 95% of PCs - that&apos;s the installed base - and it has 95% market share! You&apos;re trying to con me!You&apos;re right - Windows has 95% of both installed base and market share. That&apos;s because it&apos;s effectively a saturated market: the number of people in the world using PCs (or Apple Macs) doesn&apos;t seem to be growing.In turn, that means that if 10 PCs are shipped, they&apos;re almost certainly replacing 10 existing PCs. One in, one out. In fact, the problem that PC manufacturers presently face is that the installed base is pretty happy; PCs are living longer, which means that replacements aren&apos;t needed as often.Windows achieved its dominance in the 1990s, and nothing has disrupted it for desktops since. In the context of the 1.4bn or so PCs out there, the few million that Apple sells each quarter isn&apos;t going to make a substantial impact on the installed base ratios (Windows:Mac).So does that mean that market share eventually equals installed base?Yes - eventually. But bear in mind all those points above about replacement rates.What about search? If Google has a market share of 90% in search in Europe, is there something tricky behind that?No, because searches aren&apos;t preserved. You search, it&apos;s done. For temporary items, &quot;market share&quot; describes use; there&apos;s no &quot;installed base&quot; of searches.So what should I do next time I see a story about market share?See whether it has the supporting numbers you need: the total size of the market, and what it tells us about the installed base. And what, if anything, it tells you about what&apos;s happening in the wider market. Samsung&apos;s colossal market share in smartphones and mobile phones, for instance, is reflected in installed base figures – and also in its profits and heft in the business world. Sometimes the numbers are useful. But on their own? Not really.[9 November: updated with better images and details about secondhand market]• Explainer:Apple, Samsung, Google and the smartphone patent wars
Twitter made a spectacular debut on the New York stock exchange on Thursday, with its soaring share price valuing the company at over $25bn. It was an extraordinary debut for a company that has never made a profit and whose business model depends on selling advertising on a scale significantly higher than it currently achieves.The company set a share price of $26 on Tuesday but fierce bidding for the limited number of shares available drove that price up to over $45 as the stock market opened, a rise of 73%. In early trading, the price increased even further, at one point topping $50. It closed the day at $44.90.It instantly made billionaires of co-founders Ev Williams and Jack Dorsey. Williams owns 59.6m shares, valued at more than $2.5bn at $45.10 a piece. Dorsey holds another 23.4m shares, valued at over $1bn.At $25bn Twitter is being valued at 25 times next year’s projected revenue of $1bn. That same multiple applied to Apple would be equal the entire annual economic output of Germany, said Tomas Freyman, director of valuations at BDO. “This is a company with $600m of revenues and no profits,” he said. He said the company would have to “put up some serious numbers soon” to justify the price.The massive spike worried some analysts. Brian Wieser of Pivotal Research, an independent research firm, sent a note to clients Thursday morning advising them to sell. “With a price that pushes into the high 30s and beyond, Twitter is simply too expensive,” he wrote.The seven-year-old company now claims 200m users worldwide and has 53m active users in the US, where it makes most of its advertising revenues. It has never made a profit: in the first nine months of this year, Twitter posted a loss of $134m. Facebook, the last big tech IPO, now has over 1bn users – its profits grew to more than $1bn before it went public.Twitter is big on mobile, the fastest-growing area for advertisers and one where others, including Facebook until recently, have struggled. In September the company bought MoPub, which manages online ad sales, for a reported $350m. The company will allow Twitter to sell its expertise in mobile advertising to other parties and its purchase was seen by analysts as a critical move in growing revenues.But analysts question whether its advertising targets are achievable. &quot;Twitter’s entire business model is based on advertising – not on the ads it has, but on the ads it hopes one day it might get,&quot; said Larry Chiagouris, professor of marketing at Pace University in New York.Patrick Stewart, the award-winning actor best known for portraying Captain Jean-Luc Picard in Star Trek, was at the NYSE to ring the opening bell on Twitter’s behalf. He was joined by Vivienne Harr, a nine-year-old who set up a lemonade stand to protest against child slavery, and a representative of the Boston police department..@twitterowes success to its users, so gives#NYSEBellto@sirpatstew,@vivienneharr&amp;@bostonpolice#TwitterIPOpic.twitter.com/f5eqc0Xjht&mdash;  (NYX) NYSE Euronext (@NYSEEuronext)November 7, 2013Twitter’s share price was increased three times before the initial public offering (IPO).Twitter had originally estimated a price range of $17-$20, but on Monday that was upped to $23-$25. The price was further increased to $26 on Wednesday. But huge demand for the 70m shares put on sale by the company sent the price soaring.“We knew Twitter shares would be in high demand, but this still goes down as hugely impressive, and is further evidence of the hunger to invest in innovative new media type,&quot; said Joshua Raymond of the analysts City Index. &quot;IPOs are, of course, highly volatile, so while this would appear to be a very successful market debut for Twitter, we must take a step back and judge investor appetite over a longer period of time,” he saidThe company had appeared keen to avoid a first-day “pop” of this magnitude. Big “pops” on internet stocks have in the past been followed by significant falls. But it was also keen to avoid the fate of Facebook which priced its shares too high and took a year to recover from its disastrous IPO last May.Before the pricing, Tomas Freyman, director of valuations at BDO, worried that history was about to repeat itself. &quot;Despite Twitter&apos;s price range valuing being more modest than some of the numbers bandied about over the last few weeks, this is still very high for a company that has yet to make any profits,&quot; he said.Emmett Kilduff, CEO of Eagle Alpha, a company that analyses online data, said Twitter needed to improve its ad platform if it was to grow revenues. Eagle Alpha recently published a report looking at online views of Twitter from advertisers. “”Ease of use was a big thing for advertisers. If a small business uses Google’s AdWords [Google’s main advertising product], it’s incredibly simple. Our feedback was that was not so for Twitter. It’s just not intuitive.”• This article was amended on 11 November 2013. An earlier version referred to next year&apos;s projected earnings rather than revenue.
Argos has denied that its £100 MyTablet is being withdrawn from sale after being widely panned by critics, saying instead that short supply has been caused by excessive demand.A source at one retailer told the Guardian that the MyTablet had been pulled from sale because of unfavourable reviews, citing a poor screen and issues with build quality, including gaping around the screen and body.An Argos spokesperson insisted negative reviews were not related to MyTablet&apos;s &quot;out of stock&quot; status.“We have been pleasantly surprised by the high levels of demand for MyTablet which have exceeded our expectations. We are talking to our supplier about how soon we can obtain stock,” she said.“The stock situation is absolutely not down to negative reviews.&quot;The MyTablet Android tablet computer, made under the Argos own-brand name of Bush, costs under £100 but was not well received by reviewers, includingthe Guardian.“It wouldn’t surprise me if they have sold out at that price point, if they were conservative on how many they thought they’d sell,” said Ben Wood, mobile analyst with research firm CCS Insight.“For instance, at £119 theTesco Hudlis flying off the shelves as soon as stock arrives. About the only way to get hold of one is online,” Wood said.Argos was unsure about when the MyTablet stock levels would improve, saying “in terms of availability it is very, very low. We don’t yet know when new stock will be available&quot;.Tablets are anticipated to be even more popular than last yearGlobal tablet shipments increased by 36.7%, with third quarter tablet shipments totalling 34.8m,according to datafrom research firm IDC. The fourth quarter is expected to see dramatically increased tablet sales as we head into the Christmas gifting period, when tablets are anticipated to be even more popular than last year.In the UK, the tablet category has exploded in the last few years, with tablet sales dominating in the runup to Christmas.According to data from research firm CCS Insight, 8.3m tablets were sold in the UK in 2012, with more than half of sales coming in the last quarter of the year alone. This year is anticipated to mirror that increased demand in Q4.• In October, Tesco released its own Android tablet, the Hudl, which offersa lot of tablet computer for £119
I loved my personalised iGoogle home page, and now it's gone. Google Classic is a very poor substitute. What can I do?Michael AytonGoogle has just closed iGoogle, its personal start page, but it made the announcement last summer, leaving alternative sites plenty of time to pitch for its former users. That's also what happened with the closing of Google Reader, but I haven't seen the same outpourings of anger and grief, or the same search for new homes, from iGoogle users. It would be interesting to know how many there were.I did like iGoogle, and it was the first site I covered when I started writing aweekly Netbytes columnon the Guardian's website six years ago. It's perhaps less important now that browsers include thumbnails of your most-used pages, and you can easy add websites and apps to your Windows 8 Start page.If you want something as much like iGoogle as possible, thenigHomeis the first start page to try. It actually bills itself as the "iGoogle Alternative", and it still has the black menu bar for Gmail, Calendar, Maps, Images, Google News etc that Google so foolishly removed from its Search home page. It also has a Google search box, and it shows search results without the plethora of adverts you get with Google.igHome is a bit boxy, but there are plenty of "gadgets" -- almost 200,000 -- albeit nearly all of them are RSS feeds.uStartis a less-boxy attempt to replace iGoogle, and it has tabs but not a black menu bar. One of the tabs is an RSS reader that looks like a decent replacement for Google Reader, so this may appeal if you consume a lot of RSS feeds. Its search box also uses Google Custom Search, but results come with plenty of adverts as well.My Yahoois another obvious alternative. It was around before Google launched iGoogle, and has many of the same features. Like igHome and others, it offers to import your iGoogle settings, if you saved them. Of course, its menu bar links to Yahoo's email, news and other services, not the Google equivalents, so it's not as useful if you don't use Yahoo. (There is a Gmail widget.)My Yahoo has recently been redesigned, but I think my My Yahoo page looks horrible, and it would just take too much work to fix it. I also find the redesigned Yahoo Mail almost unusable, and I don't even like the redesigned Flickr. I'm not sure who Yahoo is aiming at nowadays. It might be you, but it's obviously not me.NetVibesis another pioneering start page or dashboard. It's really aimed at large businesses, and last year, it was taken over by the French giant, Dassault Systèmes. However, it does have an "I'm just Me" version with three options: Basic (free), VIP ($3.50 per month) and Premium ($499 per month). The VIP option provides support, while the Premium option includes analytics. Pick the Basic version and you have a choice of preconfigured dashboards including "G refugee".Of all the startpage sites, Netvibes has made the most concerted effort to attract iGoogle readers, with aseries of blog postsand help for developers toremake their iGoogle gadgets. The "G refugee" option looks like an excellent substitute for iGoogle, and it includes an RSS reader page that replaces the now defunct Google Reader.Netvibes has a reputation for being somewhat hard to use, and if you start from scratch, it can take a long time to get things set up. The "G refugee" button seems to solve that problem in the short term, so I'm impressed. But if you plan to add tabs for more specialised purposes, you may have to grapple with native Netvibes.Finally, there'sProtopage. This is a relatively small, independent operation but it has been attracting switchers from iGoogle over the past couple of years, including me. It doesn't look a bit like iGoogle, and it's missing loads of widgets: there's no Facebook, for example, no translations, and no Gmail. You have to set email up yourself. If you particularly valued iGoogle's vast collection of widgets, then Protopage is not for you.On the other hand, Protopage is lightweight, very easy to use, and is a good way to track the most recent seven stories on news sites. This is the main reason I use it, and the reason my Protopage has two columns instead of a more flexible three, four or even five. It also has a handy search box and a set of common links in the search bar across the top: Google, Bing, Wolfram Alpha, Wikipedia, Amazon, Twitter, YouTube etc. This makes it very easy to search for the same word or phrase across several the different sites. (If you don't like the sites on the search bar, you can change them, and you can change their order.) Finally, you can set Protopage as the home page on your browser.Several personalised start pages have vanished since I last looked at this area, including LinkedFeed and the well-regarded PageFlakes, so I sense the whole category is in decline. It certainly doesn't go well with modern trends. The real value of a start page comes from packing a lot of different types of information into a single screen, and a big desktop monitor delivers the maximum value, whereas the trend is towards small, mobile screens. On mobiles, of course, the smartphone's main screen is already a start page, and Microsoft Windows 8 and Windows Phone 8 are obviously part of the same trend. (If you don't have Windows 8, you can addAwesome New Tab Pageto Google Chrome. Firefox users could tryNew Tab Toolsor a similar utility.)If you check out the websites I've mentioned, I think you will find at least one that appeals to you, even if you don't love it as much as iGoogle. The choice is probably between igHome and Netvibes' "G refugee", with Protopage offering a different approach that you might love or hate.
A battery-powered robotic arm capable of augmenting a person’s lifting power by 18kg has won the 2013Dyson award.Designed and built at the University of Pennsylvania by four mechanical engineering students, theTitan Armis an upper-body exoskeleton that can be used by people who lift heavy objects during work, as well as helping to rehabilitate people with back injuries.The team were awarded £30,000 with a further £10,000 donated to the University of Pennsylvania engineering department.&quot;Titan Arm is obviously an ingenious design, but the team’s use of modern, rapid – and relatively inexpensive – manufacturing techniques makes the project even more compelling,” said Sir James Dyson, the billionaire founder of the bagless vacuum cleaner and founder of the annual awards run by the James Dyson Foundation aimed at encouraging problem-solving inventions.Costs 50 times less than your typical exoskeletonThe team spent eight months creating the Titan Arm, producing its prototype for £1,200 – 1/50th of the cost of typical exoskeletons currently available – using computer-aided design, 3D printing and computer controlled machining.The robotic arm is connected to a rigid back brace that is strapped to the wearer to maintain posture, and is capable of boosting human weight-lifting capacity by 18kg.Lasting about eight hours of use on a single charge, a joystick is currently needed to control the arm, however future versions could utilise electrical impulses from muscle tissue to trigger movement.Sensors within the arm track its movement and relay information back to doctors, who can use the data to help stroke and injury victims rebuild muscle strength and relearn fine the motor control that is often lost.The Dyson award’s second prize went to a brain-reading prosthetic hand packed with sensors from a team based in Japan, while third prize went to a team from New Zealand 3D printing casts for broken limbs.• In February, Dysonlaunched a new tap that dries your hands as wellcalled the AirBlade Tap
1 Realtime poetryOn the very boundaries of what is considered a game, thoughtful titles such asThe Graveyard, which sees players assume the role of an elderly lady pondering mortality, are at the very boundaries of what is actually considered a game, and like many in the genre, are minimally interactive, offering compact worlds where abstract narratives explore the human condition.2 Dating simsAnyone yearning for awkward social interactions is catered for by this sometimes pornographic genre which characteristically casts players as a meek young man surrounded by hordes of the opposite sex, and is often mixed with other genres, such as thepopular seriesSakura Wars. Easy to dismiss as rather creepy, the dating sim has influenced elements of western-released titles such asHarvest MoonandPersona 3.3 KaijuThe Japanese word "Kaiju" often refers to giant creatures that rampage through cities. It's an activity equally popular with gamers,King of Monstersbeing a good example.4 Infrastructure simsUtterly sincere titles such asStreet Cleaning Simulatordon't tackle typical gaming subject matter, but refuse management can be surprisingly relaxing. Seriously.5 Audio-onlyThe games industry is obsessed with visual flair, but an entire genre of visual-free creations exists: most recently in iOS horror titlesPapa Sangre 2andVanished, through to experimental game artworks like4 Minutes and 33 Seconds of Uniqueness.6 Skincare therapyCentred on Nintendo's DS, a wealth of games are devoted to pores and foundation, with the likes ofDream Skinproving games can, allegedly, make you beautiful.
Silk Road, the online drugs marketplace which was shut down by the FBI in October, has been resurrected by a group of the site’s former moderators and users.Dubbed Silk Road 2.0, the new site taunts the authorities from the start with a login page that features a pastiche of the FBI’s seizure notice.The last two words in the warning “this hidden site has been seized” crossed out, and a stamp reading “this site has risen again” placed above.Once logged in, users are greeted with a manifesto written by the site’s new operator, who goes by the pseudonym DPR or Dread Pirate Roberts - the same name as the previous two site administrators.“Welcome back to freedom. It took the FBI two and a half years to do what they did,” wrote the new DPR. “Divide, conquer and eliminate was their strategy … but four weeks of temporary silence is all they got. And as our resilient community bounces back even stronger than ever before, never forget that they can only ever seize assets – they can never arrest our spirit, our ideas or our passion, unless we let them.”Some changes have been made to the old site, including security measures which DPR claimed will ensure that “in the event of Silk Road’s demise once more, no member will lose their coins,” but on the whole the new site attempts to present a familiar face to users.Even so, some fans of the old Silk Road are cautious. “Personally I&apos;m going to sit back, wait patiently and see what happens,”said one user on the Silk Road subforum on Reddit.“I do not mean to be a party pooper but I just hope this site isnt a scam or [law enforcement] ... I won’t be ordering till I see whats up with SR2.0 in the upcoming months, something tells me not to be so quick to jump on board,” said another user on the Silk Road 2.0 forums.In its first day, the site listed 600 new items for sale in its “drugs” category, as well as other products including forged documents, counterfeit goods and a $3,500 pill maker.Just like the site’s users, DPR appears aware that the launch of Silk Road 2.0 catapaults it into the spotlight.“Without a doubt, the relaunch of our beloved marketplace will create a ripple throughout the world’s various media channels, and not all of these channels will see our cause as positive. You don’t need telling that there are very powerful media outlets controlled by various world governments, who will seek to muddy our name and reputation.”Despite its pedigree, Silk Road 2.0 can’t assume it will reclaim its position as the go-to site for online black market goods.Competitor sites likeBlack Market Reloadedhave used the four-week absence of the site to consolidate their position. Black Market Reloaded offers 6,500 drug items for sale - ten times the number available on Silk Road 2.0.•Since Silk Road was taken down, the price of Bitcoin has reached an all-time high
Nearly 150 million people have been affected by a loss of customer data by Adobe, over 20 times more than the company admittedin its initial statement last week.Owing to the proliferation of Adobe products in use throughout the world, from the Flash browser plugin, to the Acrobat software used to create PDFs, to the AIR framework used to make software like Tweetdeck and the BBC iPlayer desktop application, many users have Adobe accounts which they have since forgotten about (including 50% of the Guardian technology desk).Usinghttp://adobe.cynic.al, a tool created by programmer @Hilare_Belloc, users can check if their email address was included in the 10GB database leaked last week. If it isn’t, then they are safe, but if it is, then they need to seriously check whether they reused the password anywhere else – because it is as good as revealed.Encryption errorAs well as allowing the data to be stolen in the first place, Adobe made two other serious errors when storing the data. Firstly, it encrypted all the passwords with the same key; secondly, the encryption used a method which renders the encrypted data insecure.The method, called ECB mode, means that every identical password also looks identical when encrypted. So if the database shows 1.9 million people whose password, when encrypted, reads “EQ7fIpT7i/Q”, then researchers know that they all have the same password. From there, they can look at the password hints, which Adobe didn’t encrypt at all, to try and guess what the password might be.In this example, the hints include “numbers”, “12”, “654321” and “123456”. That last one is most likely the password itself; and so the 1.9m who used 123456 as their password have had it compromised.There is no simple way to reverse the encryption, but &quot;brute force&quot; attacks can sometimes figure out what the key used to encrypt them is. That would mean that attackers would have a colossal store of emails and passwords which they could test on other sites around the web.So even if a user’s password is unique, and the hint means something only to them, they should still consider their data at risk.“Clearly those users who chose longer, more complex passwords will be less at risk than those who chose common dictionary words or the most commonly chosen passwords,”says Graham Cluley, a security consultant. “[But] let&apos;s not forget that the hackers gained access to Adobe&apos;s systems and stole product source code as well as the database. It&apos;s quite possible that they also stole the keys that Adobe was using on its database – and so could have already unlocked the information.”“If your Adobe password is compromised, that possibly won&apos;t have a huge impact on your online life. But if that same password is being used elsewhere on the net (and sadly, we know that many people use the same password for multiple websites) then the consequences could be significant.”Ultimately, the leak is just the latest reminder of the risks of re-using passwords. “I think it would be best for people [affected] to change their passwords – and, if they were re-using them, to learn the lesson never to re-use passwords again.“You should never use the same password on multiple websites.“If you do make the mistake of reusing passwords, you are running the risk of having your password compromised in one place (perhaps via a phishing attack or key logger or data breach) and then hackers using it to unlock your other online accounts.“If you find passwords a burden, simply use password management software likeKeePass,LastPassor1Password.”Adobe did not respond to a request for comment.•How to choose a unique, strong password•The FBI has added five new hackers to its cyber most wanted list.
Samsung has admitted that its mobile software is not as good as its hardware, and is dedicating half of its research and development effort to seek solutions.Kwon Oh-hyun, vice chairman and chief executive of Samsung Electronics said the company was working “very hard” to produce improved software solutions and that he expects the company’s research and development workforce dedicated to software to grow.“Even though we&apos;re doing the software business, we&apos;re not as good as we are in hardware,&quot;Kwon saidin a question and answer session at Samsung’s first analyst day in eight years, as reported by the Wall Street Journal.Samsung Electronics says that around 40,000 of its 326,000 employees worldwide are software developers – roughly half of them based in South Korea.Shifting from hardware to softwareSamsung customises the user experience on its Android-based phones and tabletslike the Galaxy Note 3with software called TouchWiz, which is often heavily criticised for being cluttered, confusing and detracting from the standard Android experience.Additional features in its handsets such as &quot;air gesture&quot; (to move pages without touching the screen), &quot;air view&quot; (to enlarge previews without touching the screen) and &quot;smart scroll&quot; (to scroll through pages using eye movement) have been dismissed as gimmicks by some reviewers, who don&apos;t see them bringing any value to users.&quot;Industry-wide tech development is shifting from hardware to software,&quot; said Lee Sang-hoon, Samsung’s president and chief financial officer.In response Samsung will aim to &quot;reinforce our competitiveness in software platform, design and IT” through hiring more software experts, and through the use of overseas research and development centres “to address region-specific needs,” Lee said.• In November,Rockstar group sued Samsungamong others for patent infringement
The comments section below YouTube videos is an infamously troll-ridden Wild West of abuse, ignorance and spam. But possibly not for much longer.Google&apos;s online video service is rolling out changes to the way comments work on YouTube, giving creators more power to moderate and block comments, and adding new sorting mechanisms to ensure better, more relevant discussions appear at the top.YouTube announced plans to shake up its comments in September in a blog post titled&quot;We hear you: better commenting coming to YouTube&quot;, acknowledging frequent criticisms of the quality and tone of YouTube comments.The changes will roll out this week, with product manager Nundu Janakiram and principal engineer Yonatan Zungerexplaining in a new blog postthat the moves are designed to ensure &quot;YouTube comments will become conversations that matter to you&quot;.Channel owners will get new tools to moderate comments before they are published under a video; block certain words and enable auto-approval of comments from specific YouTube users.The comments section will also be personalised for each viewer. &quot;You’ll see posts at the top of the list from the video’s creator, popular personalities, engaged discussions about the video, and people in your Google+ Circles,&quot; explains the post, while noting that viewers will still be able to switch back from this &quot;Top Comments&quot; order to a &quot;Newest First&quot; mode.YouTube users will also be able to start conversations under videos that are only viewable by people in their Circles on the Google+ social network, or by individual friends.While the changes are mainly about cleaning up YouTube comments, they are just as much about continuing to tie YouTube into Google+, with users having to connect their YouTube accounts to the social network before they can comment.In their blog post, Janakiram and Zunger claimed that &quot;the majority of people commenting on YouTube&quot; have already made this connection.In October, Google announced that there arenow 300m active users in the Google+ stream, but 540m active users signed in to Google+ from Google&apos;s various services, including YouTube and Gmail.The promise of a calmer, more constructive comments section on YouTube is, however, slightly undermined by the fact that the second comment in the top thread underthe video explaining the changesincludes a prominent ASCII penis.
Activision has announced that $1bn worth of Call of Duty: Ghosts stock was sold to retailers for the first day of the game's launch. The figure was announced by the publisher's CEO Bobby Kotick who claimed, "Call of Duty is by far the largest console franchise of this generation".However, the decision to reveal trade figures rather than actual game sales to consumers, has been met with interest by industry news sites. Activision usually waits until the first day or three-day sell through figures are counted before making announcements. Some have seen this as an attempt to compete with Grand Theft Auto V, which has sold almost 30m units since its launch in September and reached the $1bn revenue mark after three days on general release. The last Call of Duty title, Black Ops 2, took 15 days to reach the $1bn landmark."In the last 12 months, Call of Duty: Black Ops II, including its digital content, generated more revenues than any other console game ever has in a single year," said Kotick. "Although it is too early to assess sell-through for Call of Duty: Ghosts, it's launching at a time when the franchise has never been more popular."However, review scores on Ghosts have been mixed, and the game's Metacritic average is 74 on Xbox 360 and 76 on PS3 – previous titles have been in the 80s and 90s. The series has been running since 2003, and sales hit a peak with 2010 instalment, Call of Duty: Black Ops, which sold 25m units, 5.6m of those on the first day of sale.According to CNN:&lt;blockquote&gt;Michael Pachter, video game analyst at Wedbush Securities, forecasts Activision (ATVI) will sell 20m copies of Call of Duty: Ghosts this year. While that would crest the $1bn mark yet again, those numbers are 10% below Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 sales and 20% below peak sales of Call of Duty: Black Ops.&lt;/blockquote&gt;Ghosts was, however, the most pre-ordered title of the year according to US retailer GameStop. Kotick revealed during an investor call on Wednesday that Activision has new Call of Duty and Skylanders titles in development for next year. It hasbeen rumouredthat San Francisco-based developer Sledgehammer Games is currently working on a new title in the spin-off Call of Duty: Modern Warfare series, and this could well be the 2014 entry in the annual franchise.
Artists including Thom Yorke and David Byrne have criticised Spotify and rival streaming music services for the size of their payouts to musician. Billy Bragg thinks the attention should be more on labels.&quot;The problem with the business model for streaming is that most artists still have contracts from the analog age, when record companies did all the heavy lifting of physical production and distribution, so only paid artists 8%-15% royalties on average,&quot;wrote Bragg in a post on his Facebook page.&quot;Those rates, carried over to the digital age, explain why artists are getting such paltry sums from Spotify. If the rates were really so bad, the rights holders - the major record companies - would be complaining. The fact that they&apos;re continuing to sign up means they must be making good money.&quot;Spotify pays out 70% of its revenues to music rightsholders, and has said that it expects those payments to exceed $500m (£310m) in 2013. How much of that money gets passed on to musicians depends on the terms of their contracts with labels.Not every label is paying artists a mere 8%-15% of royalties from streams of their music. Beggars Group, the parent company of labels counting Adele, Vampire Weekend, Sigur Rós and Yorke&apos;s Atoms for Peace on their rosters, has apolicy of paying artists 50% of their streaming revenues.Bragg posted his comments from Sweden during his current tour, and cited news that some Swedish artists arethreatening to sue major labels Universal Music And Warner Musicover streaming royalties as potential inspiration for British musicians.&quot;Artists have identified that the problem lies with the major record labels rather the streaming service and are taking action to get royalty rates that better reflect the costs involved in digital production and distribution. UK artists would be smart to follow suit,&quot; wrote Bragg.He also suggested that artists are wasting their energies criticising Spotify and other streaming services. &quot;I&apos;ve long felt that artists railing against Spotify is about as helpful to their cause as campaigning against the Sony Walkman would have been in the early 80s,&quot; wrote Bragg.&quot;Music fans are increasingly streaming their music and, as artists, we have to adapt ourselves to their behaviour, rather than try to hold the line on a particular mode of listening to music.&quot;In October, Thom Yorke described Spotify as&quot;the last desperate fart of a dying corpse&quot;in an interview with a Mexican website, claiming that &quot;as musicians we need to fight the Spotify thing... it&apos;s all about how we change the way we listen to music, it&apos;s all about what happens next in terms of technology, in terms of how people talk to each other about music, and a lot of it could be really fucking bad.&quot;His criticism was followed byan opinion piece by David Byrne for The Guardianin which he praised some elements of Spotify, but warned that while labels have equity stakes in the company, artists may lose out from the growth of streaming services.&quot;It seems to me that the whole model is unsustainable as a means of supporting creative work of any kind. Not just music. The inevitable result would seem to be that the internet will suck the creative content out of the whole world until nothing is left,&quot; wrote Byrne.Another artist, Dave Allen from Gang of Four,responded to Byrne&apos;s piecewith the view that Spotify and the internet more generally &quot;are not to blame for musicians&apos; problems... It is hard for me to understand why intelligent people like David Byrne and Thom Yorke do not appear to understand that we are in the midst of new markets being formed.&quot;
Star Wars fans have a wait ahead to find out if Disney can successfully reboot the famous film franchise – Star Wars: Episode VII is expected to be released in 2015.Now they have a new way to fill the time: mobile game Star Wars: Tiny Death Star, a free-to-play mobile game released forAndroidandiOStoday.The game is based on a popular mobile hit called Tiny Tower, whose developer NimbleBit worked with LucasArts on the new version, which is set in the Star Wars universe.It tasks players with helping Emperor Palpatine build a Death Star &quot;level-by-level&quot; and stocking it with residential and commercial businesses staffed by species from the films, including – yes, some artistic licence is being taken here – Wookiees and Ewoks.Tiny Death Star is not the first Star Wars-branded game to be released for smartphones and tablets, withLego Star Wars: The Yoda Chronicles, twoAngry Birds Star Warsgames,Star Wars: Force Collection,Star Wars: Knights of the Old RepublicandStar Wars Pinball 2all available.Star Wars: Tiny Death Star is based on Tiny Tower.Star Wars: Tiny Death Star is the second of these games to adopt a free-to-play model, following Star Wars: Force Collection. The new game is free to download and play, with people able to buy its Imperial Bux virtual currency as in-app purchases ranging from £0.69 to £34.99.Free-to-play is increasingly the dominant business model for mobile games, although its growth has provoked plenty of debate among gamers and developers about whether some games are over-aggressive in the way they are designed to nudge players into paying.NimbleBit, however, has a reputation for being one of the least aggressive developers on this score, based on its games including Tiny Tower, Pocket Planes and Pocket Frogs.In December 2011, the companytalked about how Tiny Tower&apos;s in-app purchases worked, when the game had around 600,000 daily active users. At that point, around 5% of players were paying through in-app purchases.Nearly two years on, and free-to-play games like Candy Crush Saga, Clash of Clans and Puzzle &amp; Dragons are the biggest moneymakers on the app stores.LucasArts, its parent company Disney and NimbleBit will be hoping Tiny Death Star can find similar success, without alienating Star Wars fans.
It&apos;s been a busy autumn for Russell Brand: gettingejected from the GQ awards, touringhis latest stand-up show,sparring with Jeremy Paxmanon Newsnight andtaking part in the Million Mask protest march.Now he&apos;s setting his sights on a new target: success on the App Store. Brand has become the latest celebrity to release an official mobile app, through a partnership with tech startupTopFan. He joins actors Charlie Sheen and Jamie Foxx and basketball star Ty Lawson on the company&apos;s roster.Called simplyRussell Brand, the iPhone and iPad app – with Android likely to follow, judging by TopFan&apos;s previous releases – is fairly standard for its genre, with feeds of Brand&apos;s official posts on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook as well as photo and video galleries.It also invites people to compete in &quot;interactive fan challenges&quot; to win autographs, merchandise, meet-and-greets and other rewards from the star. Fans will earn points by completing the challenges – although none are yet available within the app – exchanging them for prizes.15,000 points will earn a copy of Brand&apos;s Scandalous live show, 40,000 points an autographed Rolling Stone magazine, and for fans keen enough to accumulate 500,000 points, they&apos;ll win a 10-minute Skype call with the star.Are celebrity apps just vanity projects? They can actually be decent money-spinners. MusicianTrey Songz was making $50,000 a monthfrom his fan-app in May this year, with fans bidding to get their profile photos featured on its &quot;Instant VIP&quot; board.That app&apos;s developer, Handmade Mobile Entertainment, has been applying lessons learned from its Flirtomatic dating app to celebrities, working with Soulja Boy, Terrell Owens and The Only Way Is Essex&apos;s Mark Wright on similar apps.Also in May,Snoop Dogg launched an app called Snoopify, which fans could use to customise their photos with virtual stickers bought from an in-app shop. By June, the app wasselling $30,000 of stickers a week, and by Augustincluded a $99.99 spliff as one of its options, bought 15 times in its first week.That&apos;s not a strategy likely to appeal to the drug-free Brand, whose app&apos;s moneymaking is more about promoting his tour, books and films, while keeping fans up to date on his latest news and political views.
Twitter will be valued at more than $14bn (£8.7bn) when the social media company starts selling its shares on Thursday. The company said it was pricing its Initial Public Offering (IPO) of 70 million shares of its common stock at $26 per share, raising $1.82bn in new money and leaving the company valued at $14.2bn.The share price has risen as the company's executives have been making their case to investors on their "roadshow". Twitter had originally estimated a price range of $17-$20, but on Monday that was upped to $23-$25.Twitter's IPO will make billions for some of Silicon Valley's top names, including co-founders Ev Williams, who owns 59.6m shares and will add $1.47bn-plus to his net worth from the sale, and Jack Dorsey, who owns 23.4m shares. Twitter's other backers include Amazon's founder Jeff Bezos, and Marc Andreessen, Netscape's founder turned serial investor.The sale is the most hotly anticipated tech IPO since Facebook's last May. But that sale proved a disaster, with technical glitches marring the opening day, followed by a share crash. Twitter's executives have privately worried about repeating one of the errors of Facebook's IPO by setting too high a price for the shares.Facebook sold its shares at $38 – the top end of the range it had set – and found that long-term investors were not keen to hold the stock after reports that the company was struggling to make money from mobile advertising. Shares slumped shortly after the IPO and it took a year for the shares to pass the price they launched at. But pricing Twitter's offer too low would reduce the money the company could raise.Before the pricing, Tomas Freyman, director of valuations at BDO, worried that history was about to repeat itself.  "Despite Twitter's price range valuing being more modest than some of the numbers bandied about over the last few weeks, this is still very high for a company that has yet to make any profits," he said. "Value in Twitter is being largely driven by the hype surrounding the brand and the recent successes of other online businesses including Google, LinkedIn and Facebook, despite the latter's early wobbles."Investors will inevitably make up their own minds on the appropriate valuation, but we should all be mindful of the 'real' drivers of value, namely cashflow and profitability," he said.Other investors including Ironfire Capital and Gamco had predicted the company could be valued at $15bn-$20bn. Jeffrey Sica, president of Sica Wealth Management, recently predicted Twitter could soar as high as $40bn, but told Bloomberg the company would be "overhyped" if the valuation rose above $30bn.In a note to investors, Brian Wieser, senior research analyst at Pivotal Research, set a buy price of $29 on the shares despite "limited growth of users in the United States and around the world"."Twitter's scale is big enough and (critically) unique enough to have sufficient scale to be a big business, if one that is unlikely to ever match Facebook's ultimate size," he wrote. "We can envision the stock moving past our price target quite rapidly, although how high is 'up' will be a function of the vagaries of demand in the market compounded by what we think will be positive operating momentum in the near-term."But we also expect that the stock will inevitably face some downward pressure at some point, whether because of sales due to lock-up expirations (which should occur in both February and May of next year), because of short-term missteps by the company (perceived or actual), competitive actions by competitors or because user trends fail to meet investor expectations," wrote Weiser.During Twitter's roadshow, investors have questioned the company's ability to generate revenues and profits. Executives have also faced questions about its ability to expand its user base and rein in spending. The company has been highly acquisitive in the runup to the IPO and lost $143m over the past year on revenue of $534m, according to its most recent regulatory filing.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamYes, parts of KitKat are exclusive to the Nexus 5. Here's exactly what that means &gt;&gt; Computerworld BlogsJR Raphael:Here's the deal, straight from the horse's mouth: Two parts of the Android 4.4 launcher seen on the Nexus 5 will, in fact, remain exclusive to the Nexus 5 - at least for now. Those parts are the integration of Google Now into the home screen and the ability to activate Voice Search by saying "Okay, Google" while on the home screen.The latter part isn't entirely surprising, as that functionality always seemed to be presented as more of a Nexus 5 feature than a core KitKat element (and it may require some level of hardware-specific integration in order to work efficiently). Keeping the new presentation of Google Now exclusive to one device is rather unexpected, though, since that's a strictly UI-oriented software element.But for better or for worse, that part of KitKat will not appear on other Nexus devices - or any other Android phones - for the time being.So an updated Nexus 4 will still have Google Now as a separate app. Even the Nexus line is fragmented?As it happened: Samsung's analyst day liveblog &gt;&gt; WSJ Digits blogMr. Yoon paints an apocalyptic vision of the future - one with no appliances like washing machines, televisions, air conditioners. The point being to remind the audience of how important his business segment is. He says it's capable of becoming Samsung's "next driving force."As with software, Samsung is talking up its desire to build an "ecosystem" of products when it comes to appliances. In short, the company wants to build a universe of products that effectively give customers no reason to buy any competitors' products, since all the Samsung products will, in theory, mesh seamlessly together.It may not be brand new, but an interesting concept all the same. Ominous word choice with the phrase "lock-in," though.Pre-approved questions, vague numbers (Samsung provided an analyst estimate for its tablet shipment, not its own figure); the WSJ doesn't sound impressed. Not mentioned ever during the day: "Android"; "Tizen".Google solves mystery of barges off US coast &gt;&gt; BBC News"Google Barge... a floating data centre? A wild party boat? A barge housing the last remaining dinosaur?" a spokeswoman joked."Sadly, none of the above. Although it's still early days and things may change, we're exploring using the barges as an interactive space where people can learn about new technology."Sort of like a PC World shop?Microsoft earns $2bn per year from Android patent royalties &gt;&gt; Business InsiderMicrosoft is generating $2bn per year in revenue from Android patent royalties, says Nomura analyst Rick Sherlund in a new note on the company.He estimates that the Android revenue has a 95% margin, so it's pretty much all profit.Quite a few of those patents will have come from Danger, which Microsoft bought in 2008. One of the founders of Danger was Andy Rubin. He went on to set up a company called Android...About the new iWork for Mac: Features and compatibility &gt;&gt; AppleIn rewriting these applications, some features from iWork '09 were not available for the initial release. We plan to reintroduce some of these features in the next few releases and will continue to add brand new features on an ongoing basis.Some features in upcoming releases in the next 6 months...Apple pre-announcing software? This is a first, surely.How BlackBerry and Watsa can win with John Chen &gt;&gt; BusinessweekThe BlackBerry smartphone itself can and should be made by someone else, or die a dignified death. Sure, some people love the QWERTY keyboard, some might even like the tiny screen. But in a business that requires scale, it's not a place where BlackBerry can profitably compete.The challenge right now is time, which is running out for a company that's burning through cash. Watsa's $4.7bn offer, had it succeeded, would have increased that pressure by piling on a crushing level of debt. Instead, Chen has to move quickly to cut costs but keep relevant top talent. It doesn't help that Google recently chose BlackBerry's hometown of Waterloo, Ont., to be its sole Canadian tech hub. He has to find a way to hand off the smartphone business without killing its customer base — a task that could take a year or two. And he has to shift management's mindset to competing with other software providers, rather than Samsung or Apple.Apple adds suppliers to boost smartphone, tablet production &gt;&gt; WSJ.comAccording to J.P. Morgan analyst Alvin Kwock, the high return rate of defective iPhone 5 smartphones also led to tensions between Apple and Hon Hai over which company would be responsible for repair-work costs.Apple declined to comment on the manufacturing and labor issues."Hon Hai Chairman Terry Gou is not willing to cut contract prices substantially to get more orders from Apple. Hon Hai is also aware of the risk of building gigantic production capacity for a single customer so it is adopting a more cautious stance on expanding production," said a Hon Hai executive, who declined to be named.Hon Hai's fortunes have largely hinged on Apple because about 40% of its revenue comes from the Cupertino-based company. Its operating margins have been under pressure over the past year due to high labor costs and a slowdown in revenue growth."Apple has raised this quarter's iPhone 5S orders from Hon Hai as demand has been stronger than expected. But it takes time to boost production capacity and Apple can't find other assemblers to increase production to meet demand immediately," said the Hon Hai executive.Wistron to make the iPhone 5C, Compal to make the iPad mini. But how high is the "high" return rate forthe 5Slast year's iPhone 5? [corrected]Shipments of Nexus 7, Kindle Fire HDX below expectations &gt;&gt; DigitimesMonthly shipments of the new Google Nexus 7 and those of the Amazon Kindle Fire HDX have fallen short of original expectations and therefore their shipments in 2013 are likely to be lower than their preceding models in 2012, according to Taiwan-based supply chain makers.The sources said that as of now monthly shipments of the two devices are down from what they were in 2012 and are likely to continue that way until the end of the year, adding the decline is likely because of increased competition in the market.The sources also believe that due to recent upgrades for Apple's iPad and iPad mini series, the Google and Amazon products will have a weaker foothold in the market during 2013.Usual pinch of salt, though Digitimes's Taiwanese supply chain sources are usually solid; the Nexus 7 is made by Asus in Taiwan. It seems counterintuitive though that midrange tablets would be challenged by the low end *and* high end.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The Adidas miCoach Smart Run is the sports company&apos;s first entry into the smartwatch market and is more like a personal coach on your wrist than a simple activity tracker.The miCoach replaces the need for a chest-mounted heart rate monitor, building it in directly beneath the watch, and also packs GPS and Bluetooth for an all-in-one running gadget.Adidas miCoach Smart Run ... a smartwatch without apps.Designed for runningThe Adidas miCoach Smart Run is built like a chunky watch, complete with double-width rubber wrist bracelet and buckle. Thankfully Adidas has thought about its active target market and has put pins in the end of the strap, which secure the excess bracelet securely against the rest of the watch to stop it catching on clothing as you run.The watch is certainly not subtle, standing 15.6mm tall from the surface of your skin, but is solidly built and feels like it could take a knock or two without much issue. It weighs 80.5g, which feels relatively light when strapped tightly to your wrist. It is also much more comfortable on your wrist than it looks, fitting the curvature of your forearm well, but is unlikely to fit under most shirt cuffs without a squeeze.As the miCoach is sweat proof, you charge it via an included mini dock, which connects to a row of metal contacts on the base of the watch and provides a micro USB port for charging and connecting to a computer for transferring music.The top of the device is dominated by a touch sensitive 1.45in LCD screen, which at just 184 x 184 pixels square is of fairly low resolution. However, the custom interface built on top of Android 4.1.1 makes the most of the screen with big, bold colours and easy to read letters and numbers.A single push button acts as a multi-function input, clearing options and turning the backlight on when trying to read the watch face in the dark. It will also turn the watch on, and put it into a hold mode that won&apos;t respond to accidental button presses or taps of the screen.The optical heart rate monitor is positioned centrally underneath the watch pressing firmly against your skin when strapped to your wrist.Adidas miCoach Smart Run review - heart rate monitor, GPS and activity tracker all-in-one.SpecificationsDisplay:1.45in, 184 x 184px full colour transflective touch screenSoftware:Modified Android Jelly Bean 4.1.1Battery Life:4-8 hours fitness, 14-day time onlyCharging Time:3 hoursSensors:Optical heart rate, GPS, accelerometerStorage:3GB dedicated to musicConnectivity:Bluetooth 4.0, WLAN, microUSB (through adapter)Weight:80.5 gramsDimensions:48.4 x 15.6 x 263.1mmSwipe-based interface is easy to useThe Adidas miCoach is simultaneously more of a smartwatch than most others while being less of smartwatch and more of a fitness tracker. It has a dedicated Wi-Fi connection to the internet and does not rely or even connect to a phone, but it also can&apos;t actually do a lot beyond being your fitness pal – there is no email client or any other apps like that.The miCoach requires an existing Adidas miCoach account, which must be created on a computer ahead of time - there is no facility to create an account directly on the smartwatch, which might actually be a small blessing in disguise.Entering text is functional on the small screen with swipe gestures, but as you might expect it is slow and a bit of a chore. Thankfully, once you&apos;ve entered your Wi-Fi network’s password, plus your email address and password once, that&apos;s about all you will need the on-screen keyboard for.The swipe-based interface is relatively user intuitive, with small rebound animations that resist incomplete swipes and show you that there is more to the left, right or up and down.The transflective screen makes the watch face clearly visible without the backlight, which, like the Sony Smartwatch 2’s screen, reflects ambient light to illuminate the display. The miCoach lasts about 10 days when simply used as a watch.Adidas miCoach Smart Run review - the charging dock clips onto the back to provide a micro USB port for charging and syncing with a computer.Pressing the miCoach&apos;s only button lights the display and allows you to swipe up to a stopwatch or countdown timer. A swipe to the left takes you into the workout screens, which are then rifled through by vertical swipes and taps. Swipes to the left also take you backwards through menus, which works well enough on the cramped screen.The miCoach tracks your heart rate, your position, speed and distance traveled via GPS and your motions via an accelerometer. The combined sensors accurately measure your performance, which the on-board coaching programs can then analyse and help you improve.You can configure all sorts of bespoke workout routines via the miCoach website, including those targeted at improving your performance in specific sports like basketball, football and hockey.From there the miCoach not only tracks your progress during each session, but actively coaches you through it, shouting encouragement into your ears via Bluetooth headphones.For circuit training sessions, the miCoach also shows you how to perform each exercise using virtual models on the 1.45in screen. It works fine if you already know what you’re doing, but that small screen really isn&apos;t big enough to accurately portray the correct posture and positions required with any real detail.The miCoach also acts as a music player, with 3GB of built-in storage being more than enough to carry hours of your best workout tracks.With everything going – the GPS, heart rate monitor, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth - you&apos;ll get just over 3.5 hours out of the miCoach, but that&apos;s long enough for even the most arduous of workouts and charging only takes a couple of hours.PriceThe Adidas miCoach Smart Run is certainly not cheap for a fitness gadget, costing £350, but replaces several other pieces of equipment like a chest heart rate monitor and a GPS in one wrist-borne device.Adidas miCoach Smart Run review - serious fitness gadget.Verdict: a serious fitness gadgetWith the miCoach Smart Run, Adidas packs a lot of fitness technology into a fairly compact Android-running smartwatch-like device, but it is certainly not a smartwatch in the traditional sense.It is, however, a serious fitness gadget. It is a personal trainer on your wrist, and an effective one at that. The heart rate monitor combined with GPS and intelligent activity monitoring combine well to track your performance and your progress.If you’ve ever used a heart rate monitor before you will be familiar with the benefits they provide, but for those new to tracking performance you’ll be amazed by just how much the information helps with training.The miCoach certainly isn’t for the casual exerciser, but if you’re a runner or a keen fitness enthusiast, the Adidas fitness gadget certainly does the business like very little else out there.Star rating: 4/5Pros:Heart rate, GPS and activity tracker in one device, smartwatch-like form factor, comfortable, built-in Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, music player, personal fitness coachCons:Expensive, large, short battery life with everything going, no smartwatch-like apps or services
It's Thursday.
The government must meet the modern demands of Australians by including mobile broadband as a major part of its National Broadband Network policy and this would be possible with “little or no increase in costs”, a new report has found.The report,Superfast broadband – the future is in your hands, showed dramatically increased mobile broadband usage among internet-using Australians compared to when the NBN was first announced in 2009. It recommended that the government make NBN infrastructure available to mobile internet to accommodate this.In 2012, about 47% of Australian internet users accessed the internet via a mobile phone, the report said.The independent report, conducted by the McKell Institute, recommended the upgrading of Australia’s broadband infrastructure, and to “embrace the convergence of the full opportunities of ﬁxed and mobile technology convergence”.It said that delivery of better mobile services could be made without changes to the current scope of the NBN, and described mobile services as an “ideal complement” to the NBN.“The role that NBN can play in mobiles will not require a complicated reconﬁguration of the NBN or its rollout,” it said.“By responding to the boom in mobile broadband NBN Co may be in a position to generate substantially more beneﬁt for the nation with little or no increase in its costs.”Bill Morrow, CEO of Vodafone, which commissioned the report, also pushed for the end of Telstra’s “monopoly”, saying that if Telstra-controlled technology was opened up to competitors, rural and regional Australians could have better access to high-speed internet, sooner.The author of the report, Michael Gordon-Smith, said consumers did not really care how the technology worked – they just wanted it to work.“The general point is that wireless or mobile … the technological developments mean the capacity to connect without wires anyhow is the important feature,” Gordon-Smith said.“It’s no longer sensible to think of mobile as utterly separated from fixed line networks as though those are two different things. Therefore the work that the NBN is doing is able to support the delivery of broadband through mobile as it is able to through fixed line.”Morrow said a fixed wireless tower could serve multiple purposes. Currently a mobile device might switch between several internet connections – and data plans – as a user moved from their home wireless connection to a 3G or 4G connection outside. Greater mobile wireless through the NBN could allow for an unbroken connection or a single account.“I think there will be cases where you want a frequency dedicated for a fixed non-mobile application and yet other frequencies on that same tower that will be used for mobility aspects of it,” Morrow said.He repeated calls by Vodafone for the government to free up access to fixed wireless towers so the investment into building infrastructure in rural and regional areas could be shared among internet providers. He told Guardian Australia this would see faster mobile internet reach Australians living outside the cities sooner.“I can put up a brand new tower here in the city and justify it because there’s so many people around. It’s the same concept – if we put up one out there and share the cost of that it means I can put out many more with fewer customers and still justify the economic expense,” he said.The cost of building the tower was negligible. Morrow said the biggest economic constraint was the cost ofbackhaul– the high-speed connection between the internet provider and the core network, before they passed it on to customers through their own service – which was generally owned by Telstra.“In order to keep the tower up and running, I’ve got to pay these backhaul costs to Telstra,” said Morrow, who added that because of the lack of competition, these costs were four times more than anywhere in Europe or the US.Parliamentary secretary to the minister for communications, Paul Fletcher, said inhis introductionat the report’s launch that while the report was commissioned by Vodafone – not the government – its central thesis “certainly makes sense”.“Wherever possible, the Coalition will ensure that NBN Co assets such as towers or backhaul will be made available to carriers to facilitate improved services. The Coalition will be mindful of competition as well as broadband policy objectives in considering opportunities to alter the fixed wireless rollout,” he said.
Luxuria Superbia is not a game about sex – at least not inthatway. It doesn't present you with two polygonal characters shuffling awkwardly at one another, limbs passing through limbs, lifeless eyes locked in a thousand yard stare. It is not like that at all. Although that is sort of where it started.Four years ago, Auriea Harvey and Michaël Samyn, the husband and wife team behind experimental development studioTale of Taleswere at a GDC roundtable talk. Taking part with them was veteran game developer Brenda Romero who asked a simple question: what is the game mechanic of sex? She went on to talk about Japanese hentai games and dating sims, but that opening question had Harvey and Samyn interested. What the hellisthe game mechanic of sex? And how do you simulate or explore it in a game with out, you know,thishappening?So Tale of Tales started a Tumblr calledCncntrc. They collected images that spoke to them about sex and spirituality: flowers, gloriously elaborate astrolabes, circles, lots of circles. They explored the links between sex and ornamentation, they looked at Buddhism and architecture – ideas of courtly love, garden design, the love temple in Versailles. They wanted to make a game that explored the idea of sex as an allegorical journey. They started prototyping.Released today, Luxuria Superbia is the culmination of that iterative process – a game about touching, giving pleasure, and transcending from the purely sexual to the purely spiritual. The experience involves using the touchscreen or joypad to stroke the insides of flower-like tunnels, bringing out new colours and blissful music. If you touch the walls in the right way, the score goes up – the game likes it. The art is in the balance: movements must be slow and measured, you can't rush to success. You are giving pleasure. During the GameCity festival, I sat with Harvey and Samyn in a pub and played it as they watched: "It's a very sensitive game," explained Samyn, "You touch it very little, but it responds a lot. It is light, it is subtle."It is all about metaphor. Touch and metaphor. Throughout history the flower has been a symbol of female sexuality, of female sex. From the courtly love ballads of the early Middle Ages through the Romantic era, poets have had something else in mind when they have written about roses. Luxuria Superbia, plays with this concept. Toys with it. The journey through each of the 12 tunnels is organic, playful, sensual. As you touch, the game gives you messages. It asks to be kissed. Gently. Again. Slower. It feeds back desire. Often you need to touch in several places at once; your hands open and close as points of light throb beneath your fingertips. Yes, it says, right there. It's weird, but at GameCity I watched a colleague play the game before me and it felt voyeuristic, their fingers trailing languorously across the screen.There were many prototypes before this. Harvey and Samyn tried reversing the Rez model and having the tunnel flowing toward you, so that you feel like you're moving backwards. It didn't work, it didn't feel… penetrative. The duo agonised over howobviousto be. At first, there were more prosaic versions – one was even set in a cathedral – but it wasn't working. Frustrated, Harvey just said, "oh screw it, it's in space!" But space didn't work either. It was all just too subtle. "A friend of ours played it for an hour," said Samyn. "Then aweeklater he calls me and says, 'I get it, it's about sex".So they swung the other way, toward an overtly biological feel, but this too lost the sexuality. They moved on to flowers, to the idea of a colourful, beautiful entity. Now when you progress through the game, each of the 12 tunnels looks… floral… but all have different themes, from earth, to sea, to sky and beyond. As you play, as you touch, objects frolic along the walls – on the sea level, they are little boats and life rings, elsewhere there are petals and butterflies. What does this add? "We realised the game was missing something," says Samyn. "It was missing humour. And humour is very important in everyday sex."That's the lovely thing about Luxuria Superbia. It could easily have been some intellectual erotic essay, some lofty treatise on libidinous imagery. It isn't, it's fun, and challenging and kind of raunchy. It works on your imagination, but also on something subliminal. It has in its mechanic a central truth – that 'success' in love is uncertain and unscientific, there is no FAQ. The only way to make someone happy is to put your hands out and touch, and learn from the connection. Luxuria Superbia says that the game mechanic of sex is something to do with giving.•Luxuria Superbiais available on Android, iOS, Mac and PC from today.
Google's rivals have strongly criticised the search engine's newest proposals to settle its long-running antitrust case with the European commission. The internet company has also been accused of slowing down the arbitration process, which has so far ground on for three years and might not be resolved before next spring.Documents outlining Google's proposals to tweak its presentation of search results are currently being considered by 125 organisations across Europe.The latest proposals are supposed be confidential. However, the Guardian has seen two separate copies of the proposals, through which Google is trying to avoid a full-on legal battle with Joaquín Almunia, the commission's antitrust chief. At least one copy has also been leaked to the Financial Times.Almunia's officeannounced in November 2010 that it was investigating Google over potential abuse of its monopoly position on internet searchin the European Union, where it has over 90% of search traffic. In May 2012 Almuniasaidthat a key commission concern was that "in its general search results, Google displays links to its own vertical search services differently than it does for links to competitors".Under the leaked proposals, Google would continue to show links to its own sites – such as maps, YouTube and shopping – prominently in search results, and give rivals only limited exposure. On desktop searches, rival sites would be shown as small links below Google's own larger "sponsored" links, with an option for the user to hide them. On mobile phones, there would be a link to "other sites" beside Google's sponsored links at the top of searches. Users would have to click the link to see the rival offerings.The new proposals were dismissed by rivals, who alsorejected an earlier set of public proposals in April, on the basis that Google could still use its monopoly in search to corner the separate markets of paid shopping and maps searches.Shivaun Raff of Foundem, the British search company, was one of the first to complain to the commission about what she says was Google's manipulation of search results to reduce her site's visibility. She looked at the new documents and told the Guardian: "Google's revised proposals remain fundamentally unchanged and suffer from all of the same fatal flaws that rendered its previous proposals considerably more harmful than helpful."Were the commission to adopt anything along the lines of these proposals it would be aiding and abetting Google in its long-running strategy to transition organic traffic into paid traffic. As with Google's previous proposals, it would be better for the commission to do nothing than to adopt them."The proposals were sent out last week to 125 interested parties for comment. At the time Google's spokesman in Brussels, Al Verney, said: "We've made significant changes to address the commissions's concerns, greatly increasing the visibility of rival services and addressing other specific issues." He added: "Unfortunately, our competitors seem less interested in resolving things than in entangling us in a never-ending dispute."But David Wood, chief lawyer for the lobbying group Icomp, part-funded by Microsoft, fired off an angry response to Verney: "If speed and a genuine resolution is really a concern for Google, then why not publish both your [revised] proposal and data that supports it for all to be able to comment on?" he said, adding that it was "undeniable" that Google had slowed down the resolution process.Since spring 2011 the two sides have been negotiating as Google tries to avoid a statement of objections, which could lead to a fine and court-imposed sanctions on how it presents its results. Almunia, meanwhile, is seeking a negotiated settlement that also satisfies rivals' complaints.The 125 organisations have until 28 November to respond to the proposals.Raff added: "It is difficult to imagine a competition case where the stakes for consumers, businesses, and innovation could be any higher."Google's overwhelming dominance of search means that it plays a decisive role in determining what the vast majority of us discover, read, use, and purchase online. The importance of ending Google's ability to manipulate this unprecedented market power to its own anti-competitive ends cannot be overstated."
Apple has jumped into the thick of the legal fight over transparency surrounding technology giants’ sharing of customer data with the National Security Agency.In a surprisingly caustic filing to the secretive court overseeing government surveillance, Apple argued that the US government ought to lift the gag order preventing it from informing customers about even basic information concerning data-sharing with the NSA and other agencies.Apple joined Yahoo, Microsoft, LinkedIn and other tech firms in arguing for greater leeway to explain its co-operation with the US intelligence communityjust as it released its first-ever reporton how it complies with data requests from world governments.In the report, Apple said generically it received “0-1,000” data requests from US law enforcement – and listed the same broad number of compliances, rejections and modifications. Under the gag order, Apple said it could not specify how many of those were routine requests by police and how many came from intelligence agencies.Apple complained to the foreign intelligence surveillance (Fisa) court that the gag order had compelled it into an absurd position.“From Apple’s perspective, as well as the perspective of its customers and the public as a whole, this limited disclosure does not contribute effectively to the debate over the government’s national security systems and… is unnecessary to protect national security,”Apple argued to the court.“By design, it combines the aggregate data that are of the greatest and most timely public concern, and the greatest concern to Apple and its customers, with other unrelated aggregated data in a deliberate attempt to reduce public knowledge as to the activities of the government.”The suit before the Fisa court would not substantively impact the NSA’s ability to demand and receive data from its technology and telecommunications partners. It arose after Yahoo and other firms sought to refute reports in the Guardian and the Washington Post they argue erroneously characterized the firms as allowing the NSA to access their data servers directly under its Prism program.Yahoo has been aggressive in arguing before the Fisa courtthat it ought to be able to demonstrate that it sought, unsuccessfully, to resist a 2007 surveillance request.Apple has not apparently gone that far; it does not indicate in its filing that it fought surveillance data requests. The company leans heavily on the argument that the government lacks the authority to prevent Apple from disclosing more specific information about those data requests.“The government has failed to identify anything in Fisa (the subject of the court’s jurisdiction) that prohibits the disclosure of the aggregate number of Fisa process received and accounts affected by individual national security authority,” the company argues, using the acronym for the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, a central legal wellspring for much of America&apos;s foreign signals intelligence collection.
The price of one Bitcoin reached an all-time high of $269 on Wednesday, surpassing the previous record of $267 set in April 2013.Mt. Gox, one of the largest and most well-known sites for exchanging bitcoins with US dollars, reported the record high at 5:40am GMT.Bitcoin has been steadily increasing in value over the past month, after a long period of relative stability for the highly volatile crypto-currency. At the beginning of October, one BTC was worth $145.The closure on 2 October of the Silk Road website, which reportedly represented up to 5% of the bitcoin economy, caused a short-term crash in prices, but the currency soon recovered. Since then it has been on a rapid increase, at one point rising by 14% in a single day.Users and observers of the crypto-currency have many theories about why the increase may have occurred.Some point to the closure of the Silk Road itself, arguing counter-intuitively that by removing a potential PR problem for Bitcoin the FBI has done the currency a favour.Others arguethat the rise is because Baidu, China’s biggest search engine, now accepts payment for some of its services in Bitcoin, giving the currency legitimacy in a new market.A third possibility is that the rise represents a speculative bubble, akin to that seen in April when the price doubled in a week then plunged to just half of where it had begun. Under that theory, buyers see a small fluctuation and buy in, hoping to make the sort of gains which led toa Norwegian man being able to buy a house four years after a 150 NOK (£15.62) investment in Bitcoin. Those purchases drive the price up, leading to more people buying in hoping to make gains, and so the cycle continues.Although Mt. Gox is the best-known Bitcoin exchange, its use as a measure of the Bitcoin economy is controversial. It is no longer the most-used, and imposes restrictions on withdrawals which could artificially increase prices.An index created by the business website Quartzwhich takes into account a broad spectrum of Bitcoin exchanges shows the price of one coin hovering just below $260; however, this price is not directly comparable with the $267 price from April.•Everything you need to know about Bitcoin
Dell suppliers in China work for up to 74 hours a week amid health risks, for as little as 66p an hour,according to a new report.Undercover filming by China Labour Watch and DanWatchreveals a number of apparent breaches of Chinese labour laws at Dell subcontractor Mingshuo Computers, which operates a 156,000m2 factory in Jiangsu province, south of Shanghai.The investigators entered and worked in Factory 6 at Minshuou, which builds computer motherboards for Dell, but the company also supplies other electronics brands including ASUS, Samsung, and Microsoft.Dell is the third biggest PC supplier in the world according to research companies IDC and Gartner, shippingabout 9.5m PCsin the most recent quarter. It has recently gone private as it struggles to cope with falling margins in its core markets.The report claims that “tens of thousands” of underage workers are employed by Pegatron, Mingshuo’s parent company, and that over a third of the workers on the floor where the investigator worked were between the ages of 16 and 18.“They are mostly hired through schools and recruiting agencies. In order to get into the factory, each young person must pay an agency fee between 100 and 500 RMB ($16 and $82). The youngest of the workers had just reached the age of 16 before working.“Student workers are another source of labor for Pegatron… [they] enter the factory under the auspices of an internship, for which they sign an intern agreement. No social insurance is purchased for student workers for the duration of the internship. Their intern wages are distributed in the same way as other workers’ wages. Student workers usually work 10.5 hours a day, 6 to 7 days a week.”Working 30 days a monthThe work is segmented into an 8 hour working day, “with another 2.5 hours of overtime. In the non-peak season, they work 6 days a week and 26 days a month, while in the peak season it is 7 days a week and 30 days a month.” For that, workers are paid 1,370 RMB (£140) in their first month, rising to 1,520 RMB (£155) from then on. “Overtime is 11.8 RMB/hour (£1.21) on weekdays and 15.75 RMB/hour (£1.61) on weekends.”But those salaries do not take into account deductions, such as for social insurance – 51.34 RMB (£5.23) a month, even in the first month when employees are unable to claim on the insurance – meal deductions (2 RMB or 20p), shuttle bus fares (1 RMB or 10p), and punishments for workplace infractions such as lateness. “Being 15 minutes late is recorded as an absence, which is penalized by deducting one day’s salary.”As for working conditions, “if the work position requires workers to be sitting, workers are not allowed to stand up. If the position requires workers to be standing, they must stand for the entire day. There is no break. If one wants to go to the bathroom or have some water, she needs to find a substitute and cannot leave without a permit. A worker cannot spend more than ten minutes in the bathroom. The group leader will scold workers if they spend too much time in the bathroom.”Dell said that it was “already in the process of auditing the suppliers referenced in the report” when it was contacted by DanWatch.“We share concern about issues in the supply chain and at Dell, we recognize our responsibility, as a global citizen, to build a responsible supply chain,” the company continued. “Dell employs high standards for workplace conditions and safety in our facilities and we expect our supplier partners to employ the same high standards. It is also our policy to thoroughly investigate and take appropriate action regarding any reports of poor working conditions in our supply chain.“Dell is committed to a responsible supply chain. As with all industries, issues are found during audits and we work with our suppliers to correct these issues. We share best practices, have strong accountability measures in place and we are transparent about our efforts. It is our goal to put technology to work where it can do the most good for people and the planet and for that, we need a responsible supply chain.”•In May, Apple moved some of its business to Pegatron in the run up to the launch of the iPhone 5c.
The biography of Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, is&nbsp;published in the UK tomorrow. His wife MacKenzie has already attacked it (in an Amazon review, of course), citing "way too many inaccuracies" and "techniques which stretch the boundaries of non-fiction". The author, Brad Stone, has responded byoffering to correct any specific mistakes, but has defended his emphasis on the more interesting aspects of Bezos' story. And indeed it does contain some juicy details …His biological father was one of Albuquerque's leading unicyclistsBezos only found out later in life that his father Miguel had adopted him on marrying his mother. In fact, Jeff was the biological son of Ted Jorgenson, and had been conceived when both his parents were still at school. In those years, Jorgenson was part of a local troupe called the Unicycle Wranglers, who gave displays of acrobatics and unicycle polo at county fairs and circuses when Jeff was a baby. Being adopted, Stone mentions in passing, is something that Bezos shares with two other great internet entrepreneurs, Steve Jobs and Larry Ellison.His laugh has shaped his life"It's a startling, pulse-pounding bray that he leans into while craning his neck back, closing his eyes, and letting loose with a guttural roar that sounds like a cross between a mating elephant seal and a power tool," says Stone. Time and again it is this famous laugh that makes the first impression on people. Mackenzie told Vogue she fell in love by hearing it through the wall of her office all day. Bezos's little brother and sister used to complain that they couldn't hear the movies he took them to as children. A possible investment in eBay by Amazon, or even a purchase, was prevented partly because the eBay execs were "put off" by the Bezos laugh. Some former staff even say he uses the sound as an instrument of punishment. Towards the end of the book, Stone reveals that Darin Fala, a close friend of Jorgenson's, looked up video footage of Bezos and exclaimed, "He has Ted's laugh! It's almost exact."He suffers fools ferociouslyHyper-intelligent, ultra-driven, and obsessed with detail, Bezos expects everyone around him to be the same. Amazon staff are said to live in fear of his outbursts Stone relays a record of his finest putdowns. These include, "Why are you wasting my life?", "I'm sorry, did I take my stupid pills today?" and "Are you lazy or just incompetent?"Amazon had some truly terrible names at firstTo evoke the magic and novelty of being able to buy things online, Bezos first called the company "Cadabra". This ran into problems because people didn't understand the word when it was spoken, often thinking it was "Cadaver". Among alternative suggestions, he was keen on "MakeItSo.com", partly because it was Captain Picard's catchphrase in his beloved Star Trek. At one time he liked Aard.com, which would push the company to the front of the website listings, and he and Mackenzie also registered Awake.com,  Browse.com, Bookmall.com, and the rather creepy Relentless.com (which still takes you to Amazon). In the end, Bezos found "Amazon" by looking through the As in&nbsp;a dictionary, in October 1994, and was struck by the resonance between planet's largest river and its largest bookstore.He might be the most ambitious man in the worldConquering the internet, reinventing the book trade and becoming one of the world's richest men would be enough for most, but his longterm plan has always been something even grander: to establish a permanent human colony in space. His mother still has a copy of a speech he made at school declaring his ambition to build a fleet of habitable orbiting space stations and turn the planet into a vast nature reserve. Thus far, he has established Blue Origin, a company that plans to make private space travel more widely available.
The internet is already history's greatest educator. The answer to&nbsp;every problem you have ever had – from how to fix a leaky toilet to what that red thing on the side of your leg is&nbsp;– is right there at the touch of&nbsp;a&nbsp;button. And now, because education is a&nbsp;thing that exists on&nbsp;the internet, Google has&nbsp;found a ruthless way to monetise it.Google Helpouts, which launched this week, is a service that allows you to pay forbrief one-on-one webcam masterclasseswith a range of experts in&nbsp;various fields. The breadth of disciplines on offer is breathtaking. You can chat to personal trainers, stylists, gardeners, DIY experts. And, as it happens, journalists. So&nbsp;when I saw a Helpout called "Expert journalism: broadcast, print and digital media advice", I&nbsp;realised that I should probably sign up immediately.For the princely sum of $8.04 (approximately £5), I could spend 15 minutes chatting to Mun&nbsp;Wai Wong, a journalist who helped to cover the Iraq war for ITN and the Beijing Olympics for NewsAsia. I checkedhis official website. He'd met Pele. That was all the convincing I needed.Accessing the Helpout was easy enough. I simply booked an&nbsp;appointment, paid my fee, downloaded Google's chat software and there I was – face to face with an expert. Wong was sitting down, resplendent in a shirt and tie and ready to go. I was red-faced and unshaven. "Hello! Sorry to keep you waiting!" he yelled, and we were off.Wong answered my questions with the slick professionalism of a&nbsp;true expert. I should not necessarily try to be funny all the time, he told me, especially when "covering a heavyweight medical story". He also told me to go into stories thinking: "Who are you pitching to? What's the publication? What's the audience? Are your interests and expectations aligned?" and that, while the internet has lowered the entry bar for journalism: "Your writing still needs to be up to scratch if you want to get noticed."My time almost up, I asked the most important question of all: how can I make my copy sparkle? Wong grinned. This was something he knew about. "Right right right, mlinnn lkkkk tttttt ature to&nbsp;you." Pardon? "Omp glerk. Go&nbsp;ahead."Oh great. My most important question, and the line was breaking up. Wong struggled on incomprehensibly for another two minutes, firing glitchy consonant after unintelligible glitchy consonant at me until the line went dead entirely. We had been disconnected. I never did find out how to make my copy sparkle. So&nbsp;if this article isn't very good, blame Google Helpouts.
So far, Rockstar is living up to its latest set of promises regarding GTA Online. Last week,the publisher announced that a new update would arrive within the next few daysto clear out some of the remaining technical issues with the epic multiplayer mode. This would prepare the way for the delayed arrival of the "stimulus package" – a free $500,000 of in-game cash for all players who toiled through the mode's shaky early days.Well, a new update – numbered 1.05 – is now available for the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions. The main problem it fixes is the occasional disappearance of personal vehicles and vehicle modifications, which was apparently down to a "cloud save failure". Those who have spent many thousands adding new engines and expensive paint spray treatments to their cars will be relieved.The development team has also added measures to prevent users from losing their progress during cloud outages. Cash balances will also be protected when network problems occur, and users should no longer face the reportedly rare occurrence of losing their vehicles or mods when exiting GTA Online during network issues.These are problems that plenty more developers will face as we head into an era of increased cloud usage, both for storing game saves and for hosting persistent game environments. Last week,Bungie Software's Eric Osborne talked to IGNabout the challenges facing ambitious massively multiplayer shooter Destiny. He told the site:"From our perspective as a developer, it's hard to fault GTA Online for caving under something like 10 million players trying to hit servers at the same time. With that said, we have a rich history of supporting big audiences online, hitting high concurrency levels. Even then, we're not going to rest on our laurels and rely on our past history."Rockstar has also stated that the stimulus package should arrive "in the next couple of days". But don't expect everyone's gift to arrive at once – as the Rockstar update states, "The stimulus will go out over the course of a full day once it's initiated so don't be alarmed if people on your friends list receive it before or later than you do."•GTA Online hands-on: a weekend in Los Santos
A British engineer who works on anti-hacking systems at Google has furiously accused the UK and US spying agencies of "industrial scale subversion of the judicial process" by tapping the company's internal networks.Mike Hearn, who says he worked for two years on the networks that replicate Google data between its different computing centres, says that "GCHQ [the British surveillance centre] turns out to be even worse than the NSA [the US National Security Agency]". He added that he joined an American colleague, Brandon Downey, "in issuing a giant fuck you to the people [at the NSA and GCHQ] who made these slides".His complaint follows therevelation by the Washington Postof slides leaked by Edward Snowden which show that GCHQ tapped the private networks between Google's centres in order to monitor traffic.Hearn, a senior engineer at Google since 2010, complains that "nobody at GCHQ or the NSA will ever stand before a judge and answer for this industrial-scale subversion of the judicial process".The Washington Post slides show that GCHQ has been tapping into private optic fibre cables, which Google leases from Level 3 Communications to coordinate its data stores between Finland, Dublin and Belgium, in order to monitor traffic and extract data. Hearn says that one of the slides "shows a database recording a user login as part of this [anti-hacking] system" – itself prima facie evidence that the tapping occurred.While Google has declined to comment publicly on the revelation, Hearn's post has been widely circulated by other staff at Google, suggesting a groundswell of anger inside the company over the actions of GCHQ and the NSA."We designed this system to keep criminals out. There's no ambiguity here," Hearnwrote on his personal Google+ page. He added that the warrant system, with monitoring allowed through judges, "represents as good a balance as we've got between the need to restrain the state and the need to keep crime in check. Bypassing that system is illegal for a good reason."Google is understood to be working on "forward encryption" for its private network so that communications even over its private leased lines would be unintelligible to anyone without the "keys" to decrypt it.Google, like other companies that offer "cloud" services such as online email and storage, maintains multiple data centres in different locations so that customers can get the fastest possible access to their data: even with fibre-optic cables, the delay in accessing data from a centre on the other side of the Atlantic could create unacceptable delays.Putting centres near to users cuts down that delay, but creates the problem of ensuring that the data held in different centres is the same. That requires large amounts of data to be passed between the centres in order to keep them synchronised. In effect, that means that information put into any one centre will be passed on to the others – meaning that tapping data flowing between any two centres can give a picture of the information flowing into any of them.
The rows over a book about Amazon are turning into an epic in their own right. Amazon’s first employee, Shel Kaphan, has pitched into the argument over whether the book is accurate in its depiction of the online retailer by saying that the new biography of Amazon and founder Jeff Bezos is “at least as accurate as it is possible to be at this great a remove”.Thereview left by Kaphanon the book titled The Everything Store: Jeff Bezos and the Age of Amazon by author Brad Stone, follows theblasting one-star review left by Jeff Bezos’ wife MacKenzie Bezos.She was unstinting in her criticism: &quot;Everywhere I can fact check from personal knowledge, I find way too many inaccuracies, and unfortunately that casts doubt over every episode in the book,&quot;she wrote.Stoneripostedthat &quot;No matter how hard we strive for objectivity, writers are biased toward tension … Like any company, there were countless moments of dull harmony, and who knows how many hours of unremarkable meetings along the way. You could argue that many of those define Bezos and the company more than the strategic risks and moments of friction. MacKenzie Bezos does. I happen to disagree.&quot;‘Mr. Stone’s treatment of that which I know first-hand to be accurate’After reading Ms Bezos’ review, Kaphan felt compelled to leave a review of his own, heconfirmed to AllThingsD.“I was at Amazon for the first five years of its existence, so I also have first-hand experience of those times at the company, and I have been a fairly close observer since I left,” Kaphan wrote on the Amazon site .“I spent considerably more time in the Amazon work environment during those years than MacKenzie Bezos did. By and large I found Mr. Stone’s treatment of that which I know firsthand to be accurate – at least as accurate as it is possible to be at this great a remove, and with no contemporaneous documentation of the early chaotic days or access to certain of the principals,” Kaphan said.‘Breaking news: a new 372 page book has some errors!’While the facts of the stories seemed to be accurate, Kaphan did note small inaccuracies – including the suggestion that he had a bushy beard at the age of 17.Kaphan also called out Bezos’ claims of “too many inaccuracies” to be difficult to validate without more evidence, facetiously saying “breaking news: a new 372 page book has some errors!”.The tit-for-tat reviews are unlikely to hurt sales of Stone’s book. He says he interviewed 300 people for the biography, including current and past executives.• In October, Amazon released newKindle Fire HDX Android tabletswith crisp new high-resolution screens
Yay! Twitter is going public tomorrow!Why are you so excited?What do you mean? Of course I’m excited. There are news stories everywhere!The company is worth $13bn!There aretimely debates about whether there’s a tech bubble!There’s anexcitement industry around this IPO! How can I not be excited?Yeah, that’s called “hype”.Oh. Okay, so you tell me: should I care about the Twitter IPO?The truth is, you don’t really need to …Okay, gotta go, bye.No, wait. You don’t need to care, unless you’re interested in one of three things: either buying shares in the company (which you probably can’t do, because they’re not sold to proles); opining on the health of the stock market and tech industry; or learning about Twitter itself.Hmmm. I’m not really into any of those things. No offense! So, why do I keep hearing that IPOs are important?IPOs are important – for the company involved and its employees. It means maturity, and it usually means a lot of money is on the way. When a company decides to an IPO, it’s a big deal. It means it’s ready to play in the big leagues: listing its stock for the first time on a big exchange, inviting regulators to look at its books, and having stock that it can use to buy other companies. That takes a lot of preparation. It’s often six months between the time a company files to say it’s going to an IPO, and the day the IPO actually happens.Six months? Wow.Sometimes, it’s even longer – nine months, or a year. The whole world can change between the time a company says it wants to go public and when it actually does. As an example: during the last tech boom, hundreds of companies filed to go public in late 1999. By the time the tech bubble popped in April 2000, those companies were out of luck: no one wanted to buy their shares, they didn’t go public, and many were sold or shut down.That sounds risky. What takes so long?There’s so much to do in an IPO! Here’s the first thing to understand: a share of a company is an ownership stake. When you buy a share of a company, you own a little piece of it.BRB, I think I have some shares of Microsoft in my mutual fund and I want to give them a piece of my mind. I’m an owner! They have to listen to me!Well, not so fast. It’s true you’re an owner, but the harsh truth is that you’re too small to make a real difference. Size means power. The mutual fund has more shares of Microsoft, so it has more power. It can use its shares to vote at the annual shareholder meeting. It can complain if Microsoft’s stock value drops!That’s the center of a whole movement called “corporate governance” where stockholders try to get companies to run themselves better, or at least more profitably. But even that power is limited. Really companies are run by executives, and shareholders, even though they are owners, have limited power because it’s divided among so many people and institutionsTwitter co-founders Biz Stone and Evan Williams. Photograph: Jeff ChiuOh. So Microsoft doesn’t really care what I think. So, sorry, you were explaining why IPOs take so long.Well, when companies decide to sell stock – and invite other owners – the Securities and Exchange Commission wants to make sure people aren’t buying a lemon. When a company like Twitter files for IPO, it enters something called the “registration period”. That means it’s registered for an IPO, the same way you would register for classes, but that the IPO hasn’t happened yet.Why does this registration period even matter?Mainly because a company can’t talk publicly about its business during its registration period.What? A company that’s going public can’t talk about its business for months? That sounds crazy! Why?Because the company has a lot of homework: it has to reveal all of its financial statements; all the risks associated with the company; any lawsuits it’s facing and other fun things. The company puts all of that in a public filing that you can find onSEC.gov; the document is called an S-1. It’s hundreds of pages long, and that’s usually before the various footnotes and exhibits.The first version of the S-1 is a rough draft, so companies usually don’t know very much. The companies leave things out, like how much they&apos;ll raise. Sometimes they put “placeholder” amounts in the first or second draft, which are usually $100m for a small IPO or $1bn for a big IPO. Those amounts are usually meaningless.Then the SEC reads that, and tells the company to fix things up: more information here, more disclosure there. The SEC sends notes, and then the company’s lawyers and accountants revise the draft. Then the SEC reads the next draft and sends it back. That keeps going for months.While that’s happening, the company can’t say anything publicly because it might not reflect the most accurate information. The SEC also wants to make sure you don’t get executives acting like snake-oil salesmen, giving interviews saying “Our company’s great! Buy our stock!” when the filing says things don’t look so good.I’m exhausted just thinking about that.Understandably, but it’s valuable because the SEC makes sure that the company can’t hide things from the public.Is that the only thing that happens during all those months? All those drafts?No, then there’s the hard work of finding out how much the company is worth. That takes weeks too.What do you mean? Aren’t there easy ways to find out how much a company is worth? I notice that Twitter is selling its shares for $23 to $25. So that’s how much it’s worth, right?Not exactly. That’s an educated guess by the company&apos;s bankers. Remember how just last week they were going to sell each share for $17 to $20?Yes. But maybe the company is worth more in just a week.Not exactly. It just meansthe bankers found out more exactly how much people would be willing to pay.That’s the way the IPO process works. After most of the S-1 is almost done and things are finally coming together, the company’s bankers talk to some powerful investors – your mutual fund, but not you – to find out how much they&apos;d be willing to pay for stock. They go on the road, visiting three or five or 20 cities, all full of investors who control millions of dollars. That’s called a roadshow. The purpose of the roadshow is to get an idea of how much investors would be willing to pay, and to pitch the company as a great investment.Is it like a circus? Roadshows sound like fun.They can be. When Kraft went public, in 2001, itgave investors big baskets of Kraft foods like Oreosand macaroni and cheese. Capitalism can be tasty.CEO Dick Costolo making his pitch to investors. Photograph: Francois G. Durand/Getty ImagesWait, but you said sometimes the filing shows the company is not such a great investment.Exactly. The company thinks it’s great, but it has to make its case to the people with money. That’s those powerful investors, like mutual funds and university endowments with millions to spend.So the haggling starts: the investors ask hard questions of the company’s executives and bankers. The bankers try to answer without making the company look bad. After that, the bankers go around and ask the investors how many shares they would buy and how for how much. And then the market value of a company, of course, is just how many outstanding shares it has multiplied by the price of those shares.The bankers also talk about comparable companies, in Twitter&apos;s case Facebook, Zynga and other social media. These are the comparables, or “comps”. Between the comps and the investor meetings, the bankers figure out what an acceptable price might be for a company like Twitter.So I’m still not clear: why was Twitter worth $17 to $20 last week and $23 to $25 now?It’s not really worth that; it’s a guess, like I said. But the move could be a combination of things. The first is that the bankers are selling something, right? And when you’re selling something, you want to lowball the price at first to get a sense of the market and see how much people are willing to pay. So they thought investors would pay $17 to $20. Then, after asking more people, they found they had enough demand to raise the price.The other reason is that it makes the company look better if it raises the price, and bankers know that, so it’s another incentive to lowball a little bit.That means, if I have this right, that when we “ooh” and “aah” over Twitter being worth $13bn, that’s really just what a few roomfuls of rich investors said the company was worth?Yes.That’s wild.Not really that wild, actually. Look at everything around you: your computer, your chair, your smartphone. How much are they worth?I can’t remember how much I paid. Maybe $400 for the phone? More than that for the computer. The chair, forget it.No, all those things are worth the same thing: exactly what you were willing to pay for them. That’s how markets are created: anything that’s sold – whether it’s a blanket or a car – is priced according to how much someone is willing to pay.Companies are no different. When a company’s stock starts trading on an exchange, that system stays in place: some investors “ask” for a certain price for the shares, and some buyers “bid” the price they’re willing to pay.Listing the bids and the asks, and matching them up, is part of what a stock exchange does. Now Twitter is going to be in that world, where its shares are sold every day for whatever someone&apos;s willing to pay. When the company does well, investors will be willing to pay more. When the company does badly, they will drive down the price.So the market is like a Moroccan souk?Pretty much, yes. The rug market is a market, just like the stock market. They sell different things, and the stock market uses computers and it’s much more complicated, but the basic negotiation technique – “You want to sell for this much, I’ll pay this much” – is about the the same.Twitter Inc. will begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday morning after setting a price for its IPO sometime Wednesday evening. Photograph: Richard Drew/APThis sounds nervous-making.That’s why some companies approach an IPO with trepidation. Twitter, for instance, was not eager for the attention and scrutiny that the process can be. Sothey took advantage of a relatively new law that allowed them to keep their filings out of the public eye for a few months.So you said that companies get excited about the money? What money?Well, when a company has shares to give out, it usually starts with employees: that’s what stock options are.No one knows how much those options are really worth until the company goes public. Then everyone with stock options can suddenly see how much they’re worth: millions, sometimes billions of dollars! It’s likehaving a painting in the attic that you find out is a Matisse. It changes your opinion of yourself to suddenly find, after years of doing your job, that you’re worth so much. It makes other people want to make that kind of money too.And that’s where we get to IPO hype.Yes. Only some companies have this halo of expectation around them. I mean, you weren’t so giddywhen The Container Store started trading last week.Touche. Twitter is going to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange, right? What happens before and after those shares start trading? Sparkle dust?Well, the night before an IPO, the underwriters set the final price. That’s called, imaginatively, the “pricing”.Then, usually the following morning, the stock starts trading at the final price. If the stock is popular, it usually “pops”, or rises in value 10% or more. If it’s not popular, the stock falls.After all that effort, all those months and months, the shares can tank?Yes, though usually not right away. The banks make sure the stock doesn’t fall too much by providing “underwriter support”, which means they will buy up shares when the stock is falling to help the company. But after a day or so, the stock is on its own.So a bad IPO means the company is doomed?No, not necessarily. It may just mean bad timing or something else. An IPO is a single event in a company’s life.Facebook had a disastrous IPO, and it took a year or so, but now the company’s stock is relatively fine. A company will never go out of business just because its IPO did badly.Last question: this sounds like a fun, risky game, much better than Candy Crush. How can I get shares of an IPO?Mostly, you can’t. Remember, it’s a closed market. The banks pick who buys the stock, and they tend to give it to their favored customers who buy stocks in big wholesale chunks, like those mutual funds. Sometimes the banks save blocks of shares for their best individual customers, meaning the ones who give those banks hundreds of thousands of dollars to invest for them.If you’re one of those high net-worth customers, you – may! – get a shot at getting some shares in a popular IPO. Usually no one else does, though. You just have to wait until the shares start publicly trading.Okay. I’m not excited any more, but at least I know what I’m getting into.Then you’re better off than most people. Good luck.
In this week's edition of Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiwe hear from the co-founder of audio-sharing service SoundCloud,Alex Ljung.  Ljung was a key speaker at the first outing of theTechCrunch's Disrupt Europe 2013 conferencewhich took place in Berlin last week and brought together the great and good of US venture capital with a broad range of young tech startups from around Europe.Alongside Ljung we hear from young tech startups includingSizem, the Zagreb-based site attempting to get better-fitting bras to the women of the world andLock8, the smart lock for your bike that could change city bike-hire schemes, which won the €40,000 prize in the Disrupt "Battlefield" competition.Aleks is also joined by Guardian technology editorCharles Arthurand reporterSamuel Gibbsto discuss some of this week's big tech stories includingTesco's introduction of face recognition technologyto deliver adverts at its petrol stations,Twitter's IPOand theRaspberry Pi affordable mini-screenthat broke a Kickstarter record.
If you only ever watch catch-up toavoid paying a TV licence, being totally out-of-synch with watercooler conversations (not to mention TV Twittering) is probably only worth enduring if the idea of subsidising the BBC makes you froth at the mouth.However, if your name isn't Richard Littlejohn and you'd like to access the world of online TV and film via your gogglebox, and you don't want to upgrade to a smart TV, there is an alternative. You get yourself a media streaming device which connects your TV to your Wi-Fi to give you comparable TV and film channels (or apps) to a Smart TV. This sounds simple enough, but with the vast number of TV streamers available, each with their own combination of free and paid-for streaming services, the challenge is in finding the right one for finances and viewing habits.Very popular in the US right now is the Roku 3, "one of the most sophisticated streamers on the market" says Paul Jackson, a principal analyst at Informa Telecoms &amp; Media which specialises in broadband and TV.A small, sleek and unobtrusive box, the Roku 3 plugs in to any HD TV via an HDMI cable (which, annoyingly, isn't included) to bring you online TV, film and music services through your broadband connection.For those of us with non-HD TVs (and particularly useful for families using hand-me-down TVs around the house), are the Roku's LT, 1, and 2 models, which work with the vast majority of TVs – even old CRT ones – via the A/V cable provided with the player, giving even your boxy old faithful access to a wider variety of online channels.At £99.99, the Roku 3 is one of the more expensive streamers, but it is still cheaper than upgrading to a Smart TV and gives you almost the same choice of channels and apps.While the majority of the Roku 3's channels are free (BBC iPlayer, Demand5, BBC News, Sky News), there are some that require monthly subscription fees (such as Netflix or Now TV, a Sky-owned app with Sky Sports and Movies). But it is not just catch-up TV that's available: you can also watch live news on the BBC and Sky News channels and live sport on Now TV, where you can buy a £9.99 day pass for 24-hour access to all six Sky Sports channels.However, a scroll through the rest of the 450-plus channels reveals very little in the way of hidden gems, and the majority are distinctly American – and downright obscure (Dog TV, anyone?).Strangely,4oDand ITV Player – two of the UK's most popular catch-up services – are missing, as isLoveFilm Instant, which might be a deal-breaker for some. But these streaming services constantly update their channel list, so it is possible more will appear in the future.The Roku 3 is easy to set up with a simple remote and a logical and user-friendly interface. Considering how temperamental my Wi-Fi connection is at home, I was pleasantly surprised to find it swift and responsive, taking just a second to load and seamlessly play TV shows or films on the HD TV lent to me by LG.An added bonus is the jack input on the remote, so you can plug your headphones in and watch TV without disturbing others or trailing wires across the floor.But are boxes such as the Roku 3 a fad or will Smart TVs win in the end? "It's fair to say media streamers are a transitional product. Down the line there shouldn't be a need for them," Jackson suggests. So if you can't afford to upgrade just yet, a media streamer is a good stop-gap.Just remember that if it's good films and live sports you're after, you'll have to pay extra to access Netflix or Now TV.APPLE TV 3Cost£99Subscriptions£5.99 a month after a free trial to access Netflix, pay-per-view for content streamed or downloaded from the iTunes store.Channel highlightsNetflix, Sky News, MLB.TV, NBA, YouTube, Vimeo, Vevo. Buy or rent TV shows and films via the iTunes store.DrawbacksThe lack of BBC iPlayer, ITV Player, 4oD and Demand 5 means there's no way to catch up on British TV for free.Selling pointsWirelessly send content from your iPod Touch, iPhone, or iPad to the big screen using AirPlay, and download the free Remote app from the iTunes store to control the TV from your iPhone or iPad.TV licence?Yes, because it includes live channels such as Sky News and NBA.Who's it for?Apple addicts.NOW TV(Powered by Sky)Cost£9.99SubscriptionsSky Movies is free for the first 30 days, then £8.99 a month. Buy 24 hours' access to live Sky Sports for £9.99, and until March 2014, it only costs £4.99 a month to access all 10 Sky entertainment channels.Channel highlightsBBC iPlayer, Demand 5, Sky News, BBC News are all free, and Sky Atlantic, Sky 1, Discovery, MTV, Comedy Central, Disney and Fox are included in the Sky Entertainment Month Pass.Drawbacks4OD and ITV Player are missing, lots of the content requires a subscription.Selling pointsDid I mention it's under a tenner?TV licence?Yes, because it includes some live channels.Who's it for?US TV bingers.WESTERN DIGITAL WD TV PLAYCost£65SubscriptionsAccessing Netflix costs £5.99 a month after a free trial.Channel highlightsBBC iPlayer, Netflix, YouTube, Vimeo, Spotify.DrawbacksGarish design, and doesn't have 4OD or ITV Player.Selling pointsThe free WD TV Remote app works on both iOS and Android smartphones and tablets for easy text input.TV licence?No, since the only content you access is on-demand or catch-up.Who's it for?Tech geeks who don't like mainstream.PANASONIC SMART NETWORKING STREAMING PLAYERCost£79.99SubscriptionsAccessing Netflix costs £5.99 a month after a free trial.Channel highlightsBBC iPlayer, Netflix and YouTube.DrawbacksThe box looks a bit old-school, TV content is limited.Selling pointsIt's Miracast-compatible, so the TV can wirelessly mirror your Android device.TV licence?No, since the only content you access is on-demand or catch-up.Who's it for?Those who prefer simplicity over choice.CHROMECASTCost£59.99SubscriptionNetflix costs £5.99 a month after a free trial. Pay per view for content streamed or downloaded from Google Play.Channel highlightsNetflix, YouTube, Google Play Movies and Music.DrawbacksLimited support from third-party developers, so there aren't many channels yet.Selling pointsBroadcasts straight from your existing devices (including Apple ones) to your TV, so you can stream catch-up TV via your laptop, tablet, or smartphone.TV licence?Although you can purchase imported Chromecast dongles the device hasn't been offically released in the UK. Whether it will feature live channels or not hasn't been confirmed yet.Who's it for?Google lovers.• This article was amended on 6 November 2013 to clarify TV licence requirements for the devices mentioned.
