Photo byBrian Solis,Some Rights ReservedWell known blogger and podcaster Robert Scoble announced that hisFacebook account had been suspendedafter running a script to download his contacts from the social network. An automated message from the site said that running the script was a violation of its terms of use. Scoble was initially a bit vague about the script, saying that he was under NDA. But the automated message said that his account was making a lot of calls to the site, which led them to believe that he was running an automated script.The message even said running such a script was potentially a violation of federal and state laws. I'd love to see exactly what those laws are. Most likely the laws assume that you're running a script to takeotherpeople's information, not your own. AsSee update below. Scoble says, "I am working with a company to move my social graph to other places and that isn't allowable under Facebook's terms of service." Memo to whatever third party company Scoble is working with, before you get out of alpha, you might want to set the call frequency a little lower on yourscraper.UPDATE: I had initially assumed that Scoble was trying to simply get his contact list off of Facebook, not his contacts' information. Buta comment from him via Twitterleads me to believe otherwise.I got kicked off of Facebook because I was running a naughty script trying to get my friends info off of Facebook.UPDATE 2: And that is the starting point for a great debate.Kara Swisher writing on the Boomtownblog says:As goofy as it seems, it looks like Scoble has aimed perfectly at the Achilles heel of Facebook-the testy issue of data portability and how much control you should have over your own information online.This has long been my personal issue with Facebook and why it's only a peripheral part of my online life. Flickr, Twitter, my blogs all allow me to move data around as I see fit. Facebook is not just a walled garden, it has always seemed to me to be data prison. I like the fact that other web services knit together so that I can leverage them. There isn't any functionality in Facebook that outweighs that disadvantage. I'm in Facebook due to professional peer pressure not because I actually find it useful professionally or socially. That's my two cents.But Ian Betteridge responds to Kara:What he was doing was taking information which he'd been granted access to by friends on Facebook, and moving it elsewhere. That's something that, explicitly at least, they hadn't given him the right to do.Who owns your information on line? Where is the balance between privacy and openness?Scoble pointed to a post by Rodney Rumford, who runs the FaceReviews Blog:Facebook Bots Disable Robert Scoble. It appears that not only has Scoble's account been suspended, his digital profile has been scrubbed from the site.Mike Butcher of TechCrunch UKsaid, "Data portability from social networks is going to become a huge tech industry issue in the new year." As Mike points out, Scoble has signed on toDataPortability.org. The site is home to "the open standards stack for the ubiquitous sharing and remixing of data". It includes protocols such as OpenID and oauth, data standards like RSS and OPML and microformats including hcard. Scoble is already listed as a contributor.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:data portability,Facebook,social networkingtechnorati tags end
Okay, we all know what the big games of the year are going to be. Familiar names like Grand Theft Auto IV, Gran Turismo 5, Metal Gear Solid 4, Too Human, Mario Kart Wii and Burnout Paradise are cropping up on just about every 'hot for 2008' list feature out there.So here's aslightlydifferent top twenty, with titles drawn from your suggestions for 'the most promising game of 2008' as well as my own wishlist. Just something to get us all thinking about the riches this genuinely exciting year has in store...Part two arriving as soon as I've written it. Probably tomorrow.Advance Wars: Days of Ruin/Dark Conflict (Intelligent Systems, DS)Due at the end of January, the fourth Advance Wars title boasts a fresh cast of characters as well as new units, new missions and a thoroughly tweaked gameplay system. It's back-to-basics stuff, housed in an apocalyptic environment that seeks to distance the series from its kawaii past. Intriguing.Alan Wake (Remedy, Xbox 360)The creators of Max Payne have attracted plenty of interest with this "psychological action thriller" in which the eponymous horror author heads out to the quiet town of Bright Falls for some inspiration and gets much more than he bargained for. Silent Hill meets Stephen King's Dark Half? It had to happen.Bangai-O Spirits (Treasure, DS)A cult favourite at last year's Tokyo Game Show, the follow-up to legendary shooter Bangai-O boasts more multi-directional shoot-'em-up mayhem than you could fire a 1000 multi-coloured missiles at. And with an Xbox Live Arcade version of Ikaruga on the way its a hectic year for fans of quasi-'bullet curtain' balletics.Brutal Legend (Double Fine Productions, Xbox 360, PS3)A game about a roadie who finds himself transported to a mythical kingdom that closely resembles eighties heavy metal album art probablyshouldn'tbe exciting to anyone over 14. But it's the pet project of Tim Schafer, the genius behind the first two Monkey Island games, and he's apparently been dreaming about this one for 15 years. That's probably too long to think about anything that involves Jack Black (who voices the lead character), but we'll keep an open mind.The Club (Bizarre Creations, PS3, Xbox 360, PC)The Liverpool studio behind the Project Gotham series exits its comfort zone and heads into third-person action adventure territory. The team is promising to bring the style and pace of its driving titles to the genre and does have form in this territory courtesy of under-valued Dreamcast title, Fur Fighters. The set-up, all about underground gladiatorial fighting contests, is familiar, but Bizarre Creations, like Free Radical Design, always brings fresh ideas into well-trodden locations.Condemned 2: Bloodshot (Monolith Productions, PS3, Xbox 360)More psychological terror with FBI operative, EthanThomas, called back into service to track down his missing partner. Cue a haunting mix of nightmarish violence and pain-staking forensics - yes, if Se7en and CSI were to somehow mate and have scary f**ked-up kids, the little horrors would get together and script this. That's sort of a recommendation.Disaster: Day of Crisis (Monolith Soft, Wii)The creator of the Xenosaga series tries its hand at the under-explored 'disaster survival' genre, as 'popularised' by Irem's Disaster Report titles. Players must deal with a series of natural catastrophes, possibly using the Wiimote to lift steel girders from injured pets or hurl kids across streams of lava.Echochrome (Sony Japan, PS3)It's been a while since we saw a game inspired by a specific artist (I'm thinking of Rez/Kandinsky - there could be others), but drawing on the impossible worlds envisaged by Oscar Reutersvärd, Echochrome could be one of the most interesting titles available on PS3 this year - and its a mere download. Players must guide a figure through geometrically improbable levels, using Jun Fujiki'sObject Locative Environment Coordinate Systemand some clever camera manipulation. Try handingthatoutline to the average videogame marketing department...Empire: Total War (Creative Assembly, PC)Based around what has, apparently, been the most requested timeframe from Total War fans, Empire takes the strategic battle action into the 18th century. Expect both sweeping naval battles and bloody inland confrontations with the greater use of gunpowder weapons adding tactical spice to the real-time mayhem. There's a global feel to the game, too, as it takes in everything from disputed trade routes in the east to the American war of independence. This is the sort of game I have to ration my access to, lest I spend 72 sleepless hours ordering my fleet across the Indian Ocean.Lego Indiana Jones (Traveller's Tales, formats to be confirmedQuite frankly, if this one isn't near the top of your must-have list you weren't alive in the eighties or you haven't experiences the joy of the Lego Star Wars series. Due out in the summer, the latest Lego-ised tie-in from Traveller's Tales takes in key moments from the Indiana Jones trilogy, including the boulder run from Raiders. What next? Lego Goonies? Oh please!
I'm sad to see the end ofYahoo Picks, which used to highlight new and interesting sites on the web. After 12 years, itsaid goodbyeon January 1.There used to be a lot of interest in services like this. People flocked to Yahoo Picks, Cool Site of the Day, USA Today's Hot Picks, and the Guardian's Web Watch. But it seems their time has gone. New web sites are no longer unusual, and nowadays search engines make it relatively easy to find things.When I started the Netwatch column in The Guardian, in about 1995, there wasn't much of a web to watch. I also covered mailing lists, FTP file transfer sites and things that have more or less disappeared, such as Gopher servers. I think it becameWebwatchin about 1999, and the column was dropped when the Online section turned into the Technology section.As a result of writing Net/Webwatch, I read Yahoo Picks for about a decade. It was also one of the sites I mentioned when I wrote a column --Out of site, out of mind, June 23 2005 -- that basically explained how you could do your own webwatching. Yahoo was one of the first sites I mentioned:The other great source, which started to emerge a year later in February 1994, was Jerry and David's Guide to the World Wide Web, which became Yahoo. This provided lists of all the new websites added daily. It soon became too big to read, and resulted in Yahoo Picks. Yahoo's daily picks of the best new sites, circulated in a weekly newsletter, turned many a small developer into a star.In providing a dailylogof a couple of newwebsites, Yahoo Picks should have a place in history as one of the antecedents of weblogging or blogging.You might think I'd be able to give a better description of things that were popular for more than a decade, but it's either impossible or too much work. The earliest Netwatch column I can find using Guardian Unlimited's search is forFebruary 4 1999; as luck would have it, this mentions the Fourth Annual Cool Site of the Year Awards. And while this particular column was once on Google, Google has long since abandoned it, so you can probably forget about finding anything earlier.The transitory nature of online content is one of the reasons I'm a big fan ofBrewster Kahleand hisWayback Machine. It's a patchy record, but the best we've got.
I've been using Linux, more specifically Ubuntu, now for about six months. It's my third or fourth attempt at using Linux or BSD (Apple's OS X not withstanding). I have tried various distributions of Linux , including Suse, Mandrake, Yellow Dog. I I even gaveOpenBSDa spin because I went through a mildly paranoid phase when it came to privacy and security, living in Washington DC can do that to you.But I always gave up after a little while. Sometimes, I never got past the installer. With distros that I got to install, I was flummoxed by how the distros handled file dependencies. Ubuntu has changed that, and I now feel confident enough to use it for a lot of day to day tasks as well as using it as a media server at home. But, six months hasn't turned me into a evangelist but rather a Linux pragmatist.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:Linux,open source,Ubuntutechnorati tags endI'm going to stick to talking about Ubuntu and leave other distros out of this for the moment. Now that I've got VirtualBox and VMWare Server running, I might try other distributions. But I've pretty much used all of my disposable tech tinkering time getting my head around Ubuntu. I'm not going to chop my drive into tiny partitions and clutter my bootloader.Here's my verdict. The good:The LiveCD and installer. It just works, and the ability to run the OS off of a CD gave me the confidence to install it in the first place. Even running from the CD, it managed to work with an aging Dell laptop. The installer and partition manager were relatively straightforward.Ubuntu's package handling is another plus. The first time I tried Linux I couldn't install anything and gave up after a few days of struggling with dependencies. Synaptic is brilliant.The huge range of software available.The Ubuntu and broader Linux community. Most of the roadblocks that I've run into have been relatively common, and someone else has documented in great detail how to get around them.The bad:Drivers. I had a nightmare of time getting the audio to consistently work for on a machine with an Intel ICH5 chipset. I finally had to go and manually edit a configuration file. This is going to put off most computer users. Now, some of this is down to hardware manufacturers, but I think there is more to do to make this easier.Drivers Part II. I changed video cards. Ubuntu recognised the new card based on an ATI chipset, but now, I can't change the resolution. Again, this should work better.Some specialist software like OCR and video codecs just aren't as good as commercial software. I know it might be an anathema toFLOSSadvocates, but I'm willing to pay for improved software performance. I've got more money to spend on software seeing as I didn't pay for the OS. I love being able to support projects likeIEs4Linuxandg4u, Ghost 4 Unix - a brilliant disk cloning project.Ubuntu is very useable, and I've found easy answers to most of my problems. You can see Linux moving into the mainstream with computers like theAsus EE. But Linux still has its issues, and for it truly to go mainstream, it still has to pass the 'yeah, but could my parents use it' test. And unfortunately, my parents - short hand for most computer users - would be stymied by Linux. It's great to see the strides that Linux generally, and Ubuntu more specifically, have made in the past few years. It's won a place in my home setup, especially as a media server. And I can't wait until thenext releaseset for 24 April.UPDATE: Just spotted this on Digg: A laundry list of features for the next release of Ubuntu, known by the codenameHardy Heron.If you've got any easy solutions for the road blocks I've run into, it would be great to hear them.
Hello folks, and happy new year! 'Tis the season to look forward to the next twelve months. Around this time last year, the Technology section's gamesblog column madeseveral predictionsabout the trends that would sweep the gaming world in 2007. Wild, partially-educated and essentially fabricated, almost all of them came to pass: both Nintendo and Microsoft established distribution channels for indie game developers, machinima from virtual world Second Life was the dramatic platform for an episode of CSI: NY and Microsoft and Universal Pictures used Alternate Reality Gaming in high-profile marketing campaigns. Sadly, metaverses didn't mature much; most of the virtual worlds creators locked themselves in their laboratories concocting schemes for release in 2008.Four out of five ain't bad. Over in the paper,Keith asks the big questionsthat will dominate 2008, and I though I'd blindly press forward with a few more guesstimates for the next twelve months.Casual games dominateNintendo cracked 2007. The Japanese giant single-handedly realigned the demographic of the game console owning population to 45+ as mums, granddads and aunties clamoured for Wiis and DSs. To cope with this population's demands, Nintendo will publish a whole slew of high quality interim, interstitial casual titles.Meanwhile, as the indie-fication of the other consoles continues, the excellent casual products on Xbox 360 Live and the PlayStation 3 Network will maintain Microsoft's and Sony's tidy little sidelines.And so, by the end of 2008, we predict that five casual games will hit the Number 1 sales spot in the Chart Tracker.Games go socialThe game community's not immune to the social networking hype, and 2008 will produce several games with strong SN components, contributing to the player-base and to the gameplay. There have already been steps in this direction: the Xbox 360's December update included a Facebook-style feature for gamers ISO battle friends or foes, and Media Molecule's Little Big Planet intends to be the MySpace for gaming on the PlayStation 3 later this eyar. Social networking features are integral in several virtual worlds currently in beta, like Raph Koster's Areae, and ActiveWorlds, a pre-Second Life social virtual world, has already been integrated into Facebook.By 2009, a game will use social networking features of an existing social network site as a series of secondary goals which will have an impact on how players succed in the primary game.Controversy risesAnti-game headlines are inevitable in 2008 with the release of the latest in the controversy-courting Grand Theft Auto series. Never a company to pull its punches, the creators behind this hotly anticipated game tackle immigration with their usual blunt instrument.But the industry hopes the Byron Report, a government enquiry into the relationship between interactive and real-world violence, will counteract the negative publicity.One ID to rule them all2008 will also witness the realisation of cross-game identities. At least one company will release a proto-product that will allow players to take experience and assets into different applications. This meta-identity will be spearheaded by social virtual worlds, but at least one game-focussed space will attempt single IDs.Strap into your time machines folks, as we zoom into our interactive futures.
I am having problems with the Guardian web site. The pages are slow to load and sometimes cause my computer to restart without any warning. My PC hangs while "waiting for ml.2mdn.net" to load.Hugh GemmellGuardian Unlimited has its own help desk, which you can contact by emailing userhelp@guardian.co.uk. They like queries that include a full description of the problem, the web address of the page that's a problem, the date and time (because the site changes continuously), and the type and version number of your browser and operating system. They usually have the answer before I'm even asked the question.In this case, however, I can tell you that 2mdn.net is one of DoubleClick's advertising servers (the DoubleClick that is being taken over by Google). The problem seems to have been that the ad server was down for a time over the Christmas holiday. Usually ad servers are not down for long, because while they are, the provider is losing money.If you have any problems reaching a website, it's usually worth trying another route. Two that I use areIDzap.com, the free version of an anonymous surfing service, and Loband (loband.org).With IDzap, I'm going to websites via a proxy server with cookies and JavaScript blocked and other information hidden. This prevents the site from trying to do anything too clever, which is a frequent cause of screwups. There are some alternativeanonymous surfing services. Loband just strips out everything -- colours, images, Flash and other rubbish -- reducing graphical web pages to plain text.
You mentioned thatMike Clayton's slow-running laptopmight be a result of "too many programs loading at start up". I have programs that I rarely use -- like QuickTime or 4oD -- which load by themselves and sit in the taskbar doing nothing. How do I view a list of programs, and ultimately stop them doing it?Daniel WhelanThis is a frequently asked question. I've mentionedStartup Inspector for Windowsa few times. Alternatives to that include NirSoft'sStartupRunand Mike Lin'sStartup Control Panel. Windows Vista has a built-in startup manager. Go to the Control Panel and run the applet for Performance Information and Tools.It's also worth downloading Sysinternals'Process Explorer: Microsoft liked it so much it bought the company. Process Explorer provides a much better guide to what's running in the background than the Windows Task Manager, and lets you terminate ones you don't want.Incidentally, with reference to Channel 4's 4oD video on demand service, it is not sitting in the taskbar doing nothing. It is a peer-to-peer file-sharing program that consumes processor cycles and internet bandwidth.Even if you close 4oD on the taskbar, the Kservice.exe file-sharing program will keep on running. The BBC and Sky also use the same Kontiki peer-to-peer system, which is now owned by VeriSign.
I shall shortly retire. Could you recommend a single box, not the size of a bus, which will provide me with photocopying, scanning and printing?Pete CuthbertI can't, but PC Pro magazine says the Canon Pixma MP610 (£110.30) is "the best-designed all-in-one we've tested". There's also the lower-resolution Pixma MP220 (£57.59), which is smaller, lighter, slower and cheaper. These are home-user inkjet machines: it's assumed you will value their ability to print colour snapshots. If you want something more like you have in the office, look at the Brother MFC7820N Laser Multifunction Centre (£228.14), which is a compact SoHo (small office/home office) product. If you don't need colour, look at the Canon MF3220 All in One Mono (£107.85) and similar machines. All prices are quoted from Amazon.co.uk. High-street stores stock alternatives from Epson and HP. Note: I haven't used any of these myself, so comments are particularly welcome.
Get fit by watching more TV. Obviously.Didn't manage to get a Wii at Christmas? Then sit back and enjoy this marvellously satirical look at "Wii Fit", the fitness "game" that makes real exercise videos look like hard work."What are you, retarded?"Bill Gates sends himself up with Napoleon Dynamite star Jon Heder, in the 2005 version of his annual spoof for Microsoft's developers. (You can see and hear them - it's a samizdat version made with a camcorder.) Steve Jobs could never do this. We miss Bill already...Duke Nukem When? Never?To fans, a Duke Nukem Forever teaser isn't advertising - it's torture, as it's now 10yearsoverdue. (Ta,matthewbarr.)Seen a great technology, games or science video we ought to feature here? Tell us about it in the links!
This is a big week for Alain Job. The 40-year-old football coach is bringing his case against the Halifax bank to court. He says that fraudsters withdrew &pound;2,100 from his account at ATMs, even though he was in possession of his card, and he doesn't want to pay.Chip-and-pin was supposed to stop disputes like this. First introduced to the UK in 2004, it replaced signatures with chips embedded in bank cards that verify a customer's four-digit pin. Cards also contain a secret key used to validate the card with the bank.The UK payments association Apacs says that UK card fraud fell 25% in two years thanks to the system, which became mandatory in February 2006. That's cold comfort for customers like Job. Halifax, which wouldn't comment on the case, told him that whoever took the money had access to both his card and his pin."Once they gave me my pin, I went to the cash machine and changed it to a number that only I knew," Job retorts, insisting that he had his card at all times. "I destroyed the letter they sent me with the pin, so it's highly unlikely that anyone - even my wife - would know."Fooling the systemCould criminals have used the details on his card for unauthorised transactions? Mike Bond, a former security researcher at Cambridge University who focused on phantom card withdrawals, suggests several ways to fool chip-and-pin systems.First, he wonders whether criminals may have refined chip-cloning techniques. "Chips can be copied, but we all had assumed that it was prohibitively expensive to do so," he says, explaining that the chips harbour two highly protected secrets that researchers believe would cost thousands to extract. These are the pin used to authenticate the customer, and the chip's secret key, used by the bank to validate the card."One possibility is that someone has found a cheaper way to extract the two secrets from a card to make a perfect copy," Bond muses. There's no evidence of that, but a flawed method of cheaply cloning cards without those secrets does already exist. This involves copying the rest of the chip's data to a smartcard, nicknamed a "yes card".Yes cards don't need the original pin. Because the card alone verifies the user's pin, a cloned card can be told to say "yes" to any number (hence the name). But working without the secret code is trickier, and means that yes cards only work with chip-and-pin implementations using a security technique called Static Data Authentication (SDA). SDA has a crucial weakness, says Bond: "Unless you're talking to a bank while processing a payment, you cannot check to see if the card is a forgery."Some chip readers authenticate a card's transaction on their own without contacting the bank (examples include some large chain stores and railway stations, says Bond). A yes card could potentially exploit such devices. However, even they will contact the bank if transactions go over a certain amount, and ATMs all contact the bank to authenticate transactions. This limits a yes card's utility for fraudsters.Apacs doesn't say whether all UK cards are SDA-based, but an analysis by the team at Cambridge found no evidence of DDA cards in use. Some countries are now moving to another, more secure type of authentication, known as Dynamic Data Authentication (DDA), which will thwart yes cards altogether.Rather than actually cloning the chip, researchers at Cambridge claim damaging or removing it altogether would exploit another loophole. Apacs confirms that based on the banks' own criteria, chip-and-pin ATMs will sometimes fall back to exclusively reading the magnetic strip traditionally used to verify a card. That is necessary to support cards used by visitors from countries like the US, where chips in cards and readers are not mandatory.Criminals are able to clone magnetic strips much more easily than chips, using skimming machines that they attach to ATM machines. Skimmers use a camera to record the keypad as the pin is entered, and a card reader to record the card's information. (You can see one that has been removed from a cash machine and dismantled atatm.ev6.net.)It's no wonder that banks rely on the two secrets in the chip for evidence of customer liability, then. That was Barclaycard's case against pensioner Donald Reddell, who lost &pound;3,000 in phantom withdrawals from UK ATMs. His wife has a card on the same account, but Reddell says they don't use them for anything other than emergency transactions while on holiday."The disputed transactions were made using the chip in the issued card received by Mr Reddell and not a counterfeit card," says Barclaycard, adding that the Ombudsman had upheld its decision to dismiss Mr Reddell's claim."That couldn't have happened, because it was kept in my safe," contends Reddell. He only ever used it in an ATM to change the pin on the card, which was new, two weeks before the frauds occurred.If skimmed, Reddell's card would have been open to fraud in the thousands of overseas ATM machines that don't have chip-and-pin capability, or using "card not present" transactions such as those made via websites. The question is whether the disputed withdrawals could have been made in UK machines, which Apacs believes are now all able to read cards with chips.It is difficult to prove who is at fault in these cases without scrutinising all of the evidence, which experts complain isn't being made available. Bond worries about a lack of transparency in the way banks present their records, and argues that they should give customers and researchers proof by producing a record of the transaction cryptogram - the code created during the transaction using the chip's secret key.Finding fault"If the bank can produce those for the transaction in question at the cash machine, that is not totally conclusive but it's pretty definite that either the chip or a copy of the chip was used," he says.But banks rarely - if ever - provide this information, even in the unlikely event customers know what to ask for. Neither does the Financial Ombudsman Service, the banking industry-funded body that arbitrates in these matters, and which is currently the subject of a transparency and accessibility review by the Tory peer Lord Hunt.Emma Parker of the ombudsman service argues that customers wouldn't understand such data. "If someone wants to cross-examine the other party or look at the evidence themselves, then perhaps the court might be an alternative for them," she says.At the moment, the banks and the ombudsman (which insists that it operates independently, though funded by charging case fees to banks) control the way that cases are handled. Legal changes last April forced customers to report card fraud to banks, and not the police. The banks now decide whether or not to pass it on to a regional force or to the Dedicated Cheque and Plastic Crime Unit, a police department which they created in 2002 and fund through Apacs.Apacs argues that this process makes it much easier for customers to report if they suspect they've been the victim of fraud. For Ross Anderson, the professor of security engineering who supervised Bond's PhD at Cambridge University's Computer Laboratory, such measures also strip out transparency and accountability. "Now that banks completely control the reporting and prosecution of card fraud, they can cover up anything that's too embarrassing," he says. "So we'll probably only learn of a new modus operandi via police overseas."Is it enough to check your ATM for suspicious bolt-ons and shield the keypad from view when entering your pin? A year ago, the Cambridge research team hacked a supposedly tamper-proof point-of-sale card reader that they said could have easily been instructed to skim card details - with no camera required (tinyurl.com/y4e8ub).They even demonstrated their control by programming it to play Tetris (see the video attinyurl.com/tlcly). With the content of your bank account at stake, this is one technology that you don't want to play games with.
A hundred years ago, a new network - the electric grid - allowed people to abandon their private waterwheels and steam engines. In short order, electrical power turned into a utility. Now, thanks to the broadband internet, it's computing that's becoming a utility.Over the past 10 years, the nature of computing has changed. While most of us continue to depend on personal computers, we're using them in a very different way than we used to.Instead of relying on software installed on our hard drives, we increasingly tap into software that streams through the internet, supplied by large data centres run by companies like Google, Facebook and Intuit. Our PCs are no longer self- contained devices. They're terminals that draw most of their usefulness not from what's inside them but from the network they're hooked up to.Vital roleBy making power cheap and plentiful, the electric grid changed society, spurring the expansion of the middle class and the spread of mass culture. Given the vital role that software plays in our lives today, we can expect the computing grid to bring equally large changes. We already see the early signs in the shift of control over media from institutions to individuals in people's growing sense of affiliation with virtual communities rather than physical ones, and in debates over privacy.Nowhere, though, are the stakes as high as in employment and the distribution of wealth. Over the past few decades, we've seen a growing concentration of riches in a small slice of the population. In coming years, the skewing of income promises to accelerate as the new computing grid allows companies to achieve far higher levels of automation.For a preview, you need only look at YouTube. When Google acquired the company for $1.65bn (&pound;830m) in 2006, YouTube had just 60 employees. Yet the minuscule staff was able to run one of the most popular and fastest-growing websites. Every day, people watched more than 100m YouTube clips and uploaded some 65,000 new videos to the site.What made it possible for YouTube to build a very large business very quickly with so few people? The internet's abundance of cheap processing power, storage capacity and communication bandwidth. And YouTube's experience is far from unique. Many companies are using the utility computing grid to create expansive enterprises with hardly any employees.A year before Google bought YouTube, another internet giant, eBay, purchased the internet telephone company Skype for $2.1bn. Founded just two years earlier by a pair of Scandinavian entrepreneurs, Skype had signed up 53 million customers - more than twice the number of phone customers served by venerable British Telecom - and was attracting 150,000 new subscribers every day. Yet Skype employed just 200 people.Even more remarkable isPlentyOfFish, an online dating service. Launched in Canada in 2003, the site experienced explosive growth. By late 2006, some 300,000 people were logging on to the service every day, and they were looking at about 600m pages a month. How many people did this booming business employ? Precisely one: its founder, Markus Frind.Companies like YouTube, Skype and PlentyOfFish are constructed almost entirely of software. Their products are virtual, flying across the internet as strings of digits. The cost of distributing their goods or services to a new customer anywhere in the world is essentially zero, so they can expand vastly without hiring additional employees.By relying on the internet as their distribution channel, they can also avoid making capital investments. YouTube doesn't have to build production studios. Skype doesn't have to string miles of cable between telephone poles. PlentyOfFish doesn't have to open offices.The economics of doing business online can be a boon to consumers. What used to be expensive - everything from international phone calls to video transmissions - can now be had for free. But there's another side to the robotic efficiency enjoyed by the new internet companies. They compete, after all, with old-line businesses that have long employed many people.Given the economic advantages of online businesses - advantages that will grow as utility computing drives the costs of data processing and communication even lower - traditional companies may have no choice but to refashion their own businesses along similar lines, firing workers in the process.Shrinking workforceWe already see signs of the thinning of the workforce in some information industries. Early last year, the US Department of Labor released a revealing set of statistics on the publishing and broadcasting business. Employment in the industry had fallen by 13% in the six years since 2001, with nearly 150,000 jobs lost. These were years when many media companies had been shifting from physical media to online. Yet the report revealed that there had been no growth in internet publishing and broadcasting jobs. In fact, online employment had actually dropped 29%.The displacement of workers by machines is nothing new. But whereas industrialisation created far more jobs than it destroyed, computerisation is taking a very different course. It is extending the replacement of workers by machines from the blue-collar to the white-collar world, but it shows no sign of creating broad new categories of employment. The electric utility was instrumental in spreading wealth among a large and prosperous middle class. The computer utility may funnel society's riches to a small digital elite.&middot; Nicholas Carr is the author of The Big Switch: Rewiring the world, from Edison to Google, from which this article is adapted
A rush to download music by those who received MP3 players for Christmas helped digital download sales hit an end-of-year record high, bringing some welcome cheer for the troubled music industry.Almost 3m tracks were downloaded in the UK in the week between Christmas and the new year with X-Factor winner Leon Jackson's When You Believe the most popular single, according to figures from the Official Charts Company.The number of downloads last week was double that of a year earlier, and the largest weekly tally ever for the UK. The week before Christmas also saw a surge in downloads to almost 2m tracks.The music industry has been battling declining sales around the world for years. Although downloads are rising rapidly, the growth comes from a low base and will be welcome after a slump in CD sales and the impact of illegal downloads.Matt Phillips at UK music industry association BPI said the results reflected the convenience and choice offered by buying digital tracks. "Even though we've seen a significant boost in download sales in the week after Christmas in recent years, this was a larger increase than expected, and sales should continue to grow throughout 2008," he said.The post-Christmas surge helped total download sales for the year jump almost 50% on 2006 to 77.6m tracks.The download chart1When You BelieveLeon Jackson2Bleeding LoveLeona Lewis3ApologizeTimbaland ft One Republic4Crank That (Soulja Boy)Soulja Boy Tellem5Rule the WorldTake That6Call the ShotsGirls Aloud7ValerieMark Ronson ft Amy Winehouse8Fairytale of New YorkPogues ft Kirsty MacColl9Goodbye Mr AHoosiers10HeartbrokenT2 ft Jodie Aysha&#183; Source:  The official UK Charts Company
I love Google, really: it's my home page and I make dozens of searches a day. And being so close to Google, I am constantly reminded of its little peccadilloes. As a recent example, I was just searching for"REDFLY Mobile Companion".....Well, is there anything wrong with that? Not really, but I can be picky. First, the suggestion that the top story (Gizmodo) was found 51 minutes ago is impressive but not necessarily true. I did the same search two hours later and Google found the same story, but said it was found "13 minutes ago". OK, maybe it's a different Google index, but the times vary so it might as well be a random number.But could it be a flat-out lie? On the same results page, Google claims that it found the same Gizmodo story onDigg"10 hours ago". Does Google really want to claim that it knew about the dugg story but could not find the original until more than 9 hours later?Indeed, how does a blog post get to be the top story if Google's PageRank system rates quality according to the number of incoming links? How many incoming links in 13 minutes? Or has PageRank just become another not-evil fairy story?The thing that I have to regard as a flat-out lie is the claim that there are "about 455" results for my search. I don't know where this number comes from, but not even Google thinks it's rational. If you go the bottom of the page...you can see the results fit on two pages of Google's results, so Googlealready knowsthere are less than 20. So why tell me there are "about 455"? Why treat me like a fool?One possible answer, of course, is that the inflated number includes lots of duplicate results. Going to the end of the search, at the bottom of page 2, Google admits it has only shown 17 results, but I can click torepeat the search with the omitted results included.You can try this yourself, but even now it only has 68 results. This is still a very long way from "about 455".And finally.... another thing I notice about my original results page (top) is that Google is being helpful by making a suggestion:Did you mean: "RED FLY Mobile Companion". OK, I'll try that."Ha ha, you lose" is Google's response:Your search - "RED FLY Mobile Companion" - did not match any documents.An intelligent database would recognise names and trade names etc and treat them differently. Google is actually a very stupid database, but the Google guys are clever so they try to simulate intelligence, but it doesn't always work.I don't object in principle. Plenty of people have tried to produce smarter search engines (eg Excite), but Google has proved that stupidity works really well if you throw enough resources at it, and resources -- processor power, disk space -- get cheaper all the time. (IBM's victory over world chess champion Garry Kasparov also showed the power of brute force over intelligence.)It will be nice when Google has enough resources to do multiple searches at the same time, and instead of making a dumb suggestion, tell me in advance thatsearching for "RED FLY Mobile Companion" will not match any documents. This will certainly happen before we get a semantic web where all instances of REDFLY are tagged as being a trade name, or whatever, which will be approximately NEVER.But I'd still like Google to find a better way to provide information without the current level of exaggeration combined with fake precision. For example, rather than making a silly, self-important claim about when Google "found" a blog story, why not give the last time you know the blog updated it? That would be an even better indication of "freshness".As for the claim that Google "found" about 16 million results in 0.11 seconds, or whatever, I'm sure that impressed us for a while. But when it's obviously not true, guys,and you know it's not true, that just undermines your credibility.....Note: If the reduced screen shots are hard to read, I've combined themhere.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday January 19 2008In the article below we gave the impression that the HECToR supercomputer is run and owned by the University of Edinburgh. The university is one partner in the project - others are the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, the Science and Technologies Facilities Council, Cray Inc and Nag Ltd.To the untrained eye, it looks like a sports hall half filled with neatly arranged burgundy Ikea storage units. But the series of heavy, clunking security doors that must be navigated to get inside, and the staff's insistence on secrecy about its precise location, indicate that this is a place of national importance.Meet the University of Edinburgh's HECToR, Britain's newest and faster supercomputer, which scientists and engineers plan to use for modelling everything from climate change to financial markets. The &pound;113m publicly funded project, the full name of which is High-End Computing Terascale Resource, will be opened officially later this month by the chancellor, Alistair Darling.HECToR's computing power is astonishing. Its calculation speed is equivalent to every person on the planet performing 10,000 calculations every second - in computing terms that is the same as 12,000 standard desktop computers operating at full tilt. HECToR's memory is also impressive. It is 3,200 times larger than that of a top-of-the-range iPod 160GB.According to Professor Arthur Trew, who is in charge of the project at a site in the Scottish countryside, supercomputers such as HECToR are allowing scientists to approach problems in a radically new way. Traditionally, science has advanced through theory and experiment - the theorists come up with testable ideas and experimenters design experiments to see whether they are right. But for many areas of science this does not work.In climate research, for instance, it is impossible to do the experiments. In fluid dynamics - the complex field that governs the way, for example, that air flows across a wing - the mathematical equations governing what is going on are impossible to solve. That is where HECToR's brain comes in. Scientists can use it to run models of the real world.One application is in aircraft design. By better understanding the flow of air across a wing, scientists are able to design shapes that will minimise drag and increase lift, making aircraft more efficient. The current generation of passenger jets were built before computers were fast enough to do this sort of modelling.Professor Jacek Gondzio at the University of Edinburgh plans to use HECToR to model financial markets. He is working on finding the safest and most profitable investment strategies for pension funds, based on uncertain information about the future of the world economy."Uncertainty needs to be modelled by multiple scenarios and in order to reflect reality this automatically expands problems to large sizes," he said.The approach means building computer models that predict the outcome of different investment strategies based on huge numbers of different scenarios for the future of the economy. This allows Gondzio to select the best investments that will pay off most of the time.A faster computer also means better models."The ability to solve larger problems means the ability for more accurate modelling," said Gondzio. "You can either do the planning for more years ahead or you can have a more detailed description of scenarios."Up to now, most supercomputer modelling has been done by physicists, engineers and chemists. But the improved hardware is now making biological modelling possible.One research group will use HECToR to understand how molecules enter cells through the cell membrane. That could lead to more effective drugs. Another group is modelling the electrical activity of the heart to understand how best to intervene when it goes wrong.Trew said that UK academic scientists would be given priority on HECToR, which they can access via the internet. If their research proposal is good enough it is free to use. "Scientific excellence is the number one driver," he said.The cost of the project has risen since HECToR was first conceived. In November, a report by the Commons public accounts committee into the costs of the UK's 10 flagship science projects criticised their management. But HECToR emerged reasonably well.It has cost &pound;5.6m less than the &pound;65m estimate to build, but its annual running costs have jumped from the &pound;5.4m estimate to &pound;8.2m. Trew said this was because electricity prices in the UK had nearly doubled since the planning stages. "I think the initial estimates for power costs were unrealistically low, but power does cost an awful lot more today than it did five or six years ago," he said.How HECToR measures upHECToR is the largest supercomputer in the UK - around five times more powerful than its predecessor, HPCx, which is also at the University of Edinburgh. It measures up well internationally, sitting at 17 in the top500.org list of the most powerful computers in the world. The top 10 is dominated by machines built by the US military or department of energy.In the top slot is BlueGene/L system a joint project between IBM and the US Department of Energy's National Nuclear Security Administration. It is installed at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California and performs at 478.2 teraflops - around eight times faster than HECToR. Two German computers, one in Spain and one in Sweden, sit above HECToR in the speed rankings. A new computer at India's Computational Research Laboratories in Pune is at number four on the list. This year is the first time India has been in the top 10.
Photo fromGizomodo*Celio Corporationhas developed a remote display system so you can send the screen of your Windows Mobile phone to a bigger display. It'savailable for licensing.NowGizmodo has a photoshowing a Redfly Mobile Companion ($499), which provides just such a display, along with a keyboard. What else it provides remains a mystery, but Gizmodo compares it to thePalm Foleo, which was discontinued before it was launched.It will be unveiled at next week's CES so I'll try to track it down and see....As well as Palm's failure, Microsoft proved unable to get Mobile Companion computers to sell a decade ago, and five years ago,Microsoft's Mira project-- like Redfly, but providing a remote display for Windows PCs -- also flopped. So the omens don't sound good.Actually, there's no reason why you can't plug a standard PC keyboard and monitor into a Windows Mobile phone, if the phone supplier provides the sockets or a suitable accessory. Toshiba tried that five years ago with the e740 Pocket PC, and I liked the idea (Super PDA could replace the PC). That also failed to take off.....The ability to operate a mobile phone from a standard Windows laptop might be useful, but it gets less interesting every day, as Wi-Fi becomes more and more widely available.* but I've reduced it from 218K to 37K. Am I behind the times or does size still matter?
Download Squad has posted a sarcasticThe 5 most annoying programs on your PC, and predictably, Adobe's Acrobat Reader takes top spot, ahead of iTunes (for Windows), Real Player, Internet Explorer and Microsoft Outlook. But how Apple's QuickTime player (for Windows) and Symantec escaped notice remains a mystery.....The bloated, buggy, resource-consuming Acrobat Reader, with its mediocre functionality and horrible user interface, is a personal pet hate. In fact, one of the advantages of keeping Process Explorer open all the time is that I can keep terminating the damn thing. Unfortunately, Adobe keeps it in memory (Acrord32 etc) even after you've closed whatever PDF you were reading.Of course, Acrobat Reader is nothing like as bad asIBM's Lotus Notes(for Mac), which is by some distance the nastiest piece of crap that's ever been foisted upon my unwilling machines. But the Download Squad writers may not have had the pleasure....Feel like a whinge? Which application annoys you most?
There are few better ways for anyone over the age of about 25 to experience how it must feel to be extremely old than to reflect on the evolution of computers and the internet. People who have no memory of any prime minister prior to Margaret Thatcher - let alone of a monarch before Elizabeth II, or an English victory in the World Cup - can easily recall life without email, the web or mobile phones. To think back on the first personal computers in widespread use in Britain is to summon to mind a comically distant time, when cumbersome plastic boxes such as the ZX Spectrum roamed the Earth: machines that were simultaneously revolutionary and yet so feeble as to be incapable of storing more than the equivalent of three emails, or one photograph. (That prehistoric era was 1982, or thereabouts.) The years since the turn of the millennium will be remembered as the decade when we began to grasp the truly transformative psychological implications of living with the internet.By 2000, the first dotcom boom was in fact almost over: it ended officially on March 10 2000, when the Nasdaq index peaked, and later plummeted. But ordinary users of the internet, of whom there were about 370 million at the time, still saw it primarily as a way of retrieving information (via the web) or sending messages to other people (via email). Those amateurs who actually tried to create things in cyberspace tended to restrict themselves to building homepages: self-absorbed mini-biographies that almost nobody else would ever have any reason to read. But all this was beginning to change. In the autumn of 1999, eBay had opened its doors in Britain, and a few months earlier, a software designer, writing on his website in a frivolous mood, had coined the word "blog".The next few months saw a flurry of developments that hinted at the web's potential as a place where real life could be conducted. Friends Reunited, which launched in 2000, was the first encounter most British people had with the concept of social networking, which would later give rise to MySpace (2003) and Facebook (2004). By the end of the year, Friends Reunited had 3,000 users; by the end of the year after that it had 2.5 million. In January 2001, meanwhile, the collaborative encyclopaedia Wikipedia went online; it contained 20,000 articles by the end of 2001 and now boasts 2m. For many people, though, the epitome of what would become known as "Web 2.0" - meaning an emphasis on interactivity and collaboration online - were blogs. There were about 100,000 in 2002 and 4.8m by 2004. Today, there are more than 70m. But more important, arguably, were the quantities of people reading a small number of highly influential blogs: in 2002, leading political bloggers in the US got their first real taste of power, when their persistence in covering a scandal that might otherwise have faded led directly to the resignation of the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott.We'll remember the noughties for all these earthquakes, and others - for Google's rise to pre-eminence, and for filesharing, which properly began to threaten the continued survival of the record industry. But underlying them all was a very concrete development: the massive increase in the number of people connected to the internet via broadband, which finally surpassed the number of people connecting via dial-up, in the UK, in May 2005. (More than 304 million people now have broadband access worldwide, out of a total of 1.24 billion internet users, though it's worth remembering that this also shows that any kind of access is still a relative privilege: as of 2007, 81% of the world's population has no home connection.) Broadband finally enabled ordinary people to treat the internet as a ubiquitous, "always-on" dimension of their lives, instead of a special place they visited occasionally.The irony is that what all this is leading to - the ultimate triumph of the internet - is the end of "the internet" as a meaningfully separate entity. When you can make real money by selling virtual property in Second Life, the boundaries between the two worlds start to blur; when you can navigate to meet a friend at a bar using satellite images on Google Maps via your iPhone, then have a third person join in via videoconferencing software on a WiFi-enabled laptop, it's not clear where online life ends and offline life begins. We'll remember the decade from 2000 as the time when it stopped making sense to think of the internet as an "information superhighway", or even as a "parallel universe", because it became just another way, albeit a staggeringly powerful one, of being human.
The first Chatterbox of 2008. Is there anything left to say?
Professor Steve Furber, the ICL Professor of Computer Engineering in the School of Computer Science at the University of Manchester, has been awarded a CBE for services to computer science. This has included "the creation of the famous BBC Micro computers, which became the first machines to be widely used in people's homes," says theBritish Computer Society. [That's UK homes, of course.]In the 1980s, Furber was also involved withthe development of the ARM(originally, Acorn Risc Machine) chip that is currently used in the vast majority of smartphones and PDAs.The basic idea was to produce a cheap and fast RISC chip equivalent to the 6502 processor used in many early microcomputers, including the Acorn BBC B, Atari 800 and the Apple II. The ARM appeared in the Acorn Archimedes in 1987, making Acorn the first company to ship Risc-based personal computers for the mass market.Drobe, the Risc OS site, has a report,Acorn Prof Furber made a CBE.Furber worked on the ARM hardware whileSophie Wilson(formerly Roger Wilson) did the instruction set. Wilson and Furber also co-developed the Proton, which formed the basis of the BBC Microcomputer, for which Wilson developed the Basic. So where's Sophie's honour?
So, we wave goodbye to 2007 - by all accounts a pretty big year for the technology industry. But what were you actually reading? I've taken a big stick to the Guardian's stat monkeys and forced them to reveal our biggest news stories of the year.• Companies and party aides cast eye over WikipediaEditing your own entry on Wikipedia is usually the province of vain celebrities keen for some good PR. But a new website has uncovered dozens of companies that have been editing the site in order to improve their public image• What Jobs told me on the iPhoneWill Apple's chief executive unveil a tablet Mac or an 'iPhone' at Macworld next week? Former sales boss David Sobotta describes the meeting which explained key thinking• Google Earth used to target IsraelPalestinian militants are using Google Earth to help plan their attacks on the Israeli military and other targets, the Guardian has learned• Google Sky launchesThanks to the popularity and reach of the internet, Google has become one of the most powerful companies in the world. Now the California web giant is casting its net across the rest of the universe as well.• Rise of video downloads threatens gridlock on netOnline jams loom as filesharing services grow• How three Swedish geeks became Hollywood's No1 enemyThe Pirate Bay has raised the ­hackles of the entertainment industry and elevated its founders to the top of Hollywood's most wanted list.• Why was someone arrested over the TV links websiteA 26-year-old Cheltenham man was arrested and the site, tv-links.co.uk, was closed• Facebook is so last yearVirtual pets, video diaries and travellers' logs could be the next stars of cyberspace• Titan Rain - how Chinese hackers targeted WhitehallChinese hackers, some believed to be from the People's Liberation Army, have been attacking the computer networks of British government departments, the Guardian has learned• YouTube overtakes MySpaceYouTube has established itself at the top of the league of the new generation of community websites by becoming even more popular than MySpace, according to research
And since you were wondering: the reason why it became impossible to put any new comments on the Gamesblog is that comments close after five days without a new post. QED. Discuss.
Techcrunch's Duncan Riley hasbreathlessly reportedthat Australia is now joining the League of Evildoers by institutinga scheme to block illegal internet content- or, in his words, "The Australian Government has announced that they will be joining China as one of the few countries globally that broadly censor the internet".The news has caused predictable outrage among the net's libertarians - but it strikes me that there's a fundamental flaw at the heart of such strong reactions.Riley's underlying point - that censoring the internet is bad - isn't wrong, and it's a subject that we've talked about plenty before (most recently in a column about the Australian approach by Seth Finkelsteinpointing out that censorware never works).But the Australian situation isn't analagous to China, and it's excessive and disingenuous to suggest so. In fact, by instituting clean feeds Australia is not alone among Western democracies: Britain (for example) has had such technology for a long time. Many of the major ISPs now use clean feed systems - wereported the developments in 2004and then wrote about how the blacklistcould actually be used as a guide to illegal informationa year later, and more recently askedquestions about the implementation.I am constantly torn over whether censorship has a place in society, but it's clear to me that the real problem is not theconceptof the censor, but the situation where censorship decisions are made behind closed doors and become the only available option.That's what happens in China - the firewall, like some sort of distant deity, is both ineffable and omnipresent. But under the proposals from the Australian government, nobody is forced to have blacklisted content blocked from their net connection. Doesn't implying otherwise undermine the fight against those who genuinely use online control in order to crush human rights?Update:Duncan's taken the startlingly innovative leap of calling me a "commie" for suggesting that this situation isn't equivalent to China's great firewall. Obviously, that means he's ignored pretty much every link above and the actual comments I've made. To reiterate: this sort of inflated posturing doesn't convince anybody who isn't already converted to the anti-censorship cause; it's a sort of libertarian fundamentalism that doesn't go down well in meatspace.And you might like to ignore the people there, but they're the majority.
Photo fromLinux DevicesThe OLPC and Asus EE PC have had most of the coverage, but there are other designs out there based on the Intel Classmate PC prototype mentioned here inOctober 2006. TheHacaoClassmate PC is one example, and according toLinux Devices, it is "available now in Vietnamese computer stores for $340 (US). A version aimed at the school market is discounted to $250." It says:The Hacao Classmate PC is equipped with an ultra-low power 900MHz Celeron processor with a 400MHz FSB (front-side bus), teamed with 256MB of RAM and 1GB of Flash-based local storage. The 2.9-pound device measures 9.6 x 7.7 x 1.7 inches (245 x 196 x 44mm), and features a 7-inch WVGA (800 x 480) LCD display.The operating system is a Vietnamese-language distro based on Puppy Linux.The original Intel Classmate PC
Here's a Happy New Year Chatterbox for the people who want/need it.... except you can find the real Gamesblogone over here. Plus an explanation, of sorts.
Which will win the HD wars, Blu-ray or HD DVD, and what will be the deciding factor? Will energy prices mean green energy gets used more, or less energy gets used overall? What's going to happen to gadgets in general?Aleks Krotoskihosts, withBobbie Johnson,Charles ArthurandJemima Kissweighing in.Listen and let us know what you think - and what you'd like to hear about in forthcoming podcasts. And keep your eye on the blog: we'll be seeking your input and reactions to events and shows.Come the new year, fresh episodes will be available to download every Tuesday. (At worst, Wednesday. This one is just a, well, one-off.) We'll start next year by taking you around CES, Macworld, Silicon Valley and Britain's tech scene.·Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes·or download this to your computer·The podcast feed URL·Visit our Facebook group
Four years ago, the writer and internet entrepreneur John Battelle had a sudden epiphany - the kind of moment that leaves you giddy, teetering on a conceptual cliff, as you contemplate its full ramifications. Battelle had already been preaching the transformative power of the internet for some time. But now his thinking turned to the millions of web searches that people were conducting around the world each day, using Google and a handful of other sites.As people searched, he realised, they were inadvertently leaving a trail - a gargantuan historical archive of whatever was on the world's mind at a particular time, which remained stored on the central computers of firms such as Google, Yahoo and Microsoft.Battelle called it "the database of intentions". "This information represents, in aggregate form, a placeholder for the intentions of humankind," he wrote breathlessly on his blog. What had been created was "a massive database of desires, needs, wants, and likes that can [be] archived, tracked, and exploited to all sorts of ends. Such a beast has never before existed in the history of culture ... this artefact can tell us extraordinary things about who we are and what we want as a culture. And it has the potential to be abused in equally extraordinary fashion."Since then, the database of intentions has grown dizzyingly: in one month alone during 2007, the number of searches conducted using the five leading sites reached 9.4bn. But until recently we could only glimpse at the secrets it contained - for example, when the internet company AOL mistakenly released information on what 658,000 of its members had been searching for. (No names were released, but individual users' search histories included eyebrow-raising anomalies: "replica louis vuitton bag ... how to secretly poison your ex ... how to colour hair with clairol professional ...") And in 2005 an obscure internet forum about video technology became deluged with messages after it became the top result for Google searches on the phrase "I am lonely", which thousands of people, it turned out, were typing every day.In contrast to those brief glimpses, the graphs on these pages provide a radically broader and deeper view of what people are searching for online, and what that might mean. They were generated using Google Trends, an experimental service that uses aggregated data from Google search results to compare the numbers of people searching for different words and phrases over time, from 2004 to the present. This enables you to track, for example, how interest inTony Blair was gradually superseded by interest in Gordon Brownover the course of 2007, or howAmy Winehouse overtook Lily Allen in the notoriety stakes, or how the awareness of the termglobal warminghas grown down the years.Searches are also broken down geographically. So you can discover, for example, that of all British towns and cities Luton has the highest proportion of searches for "sex", followed by Milton Keynes - although whether this means their inhabitants are unusually liberated, or desperate, or just bored, is a matter for speculation. (The phrase "I am bored", by the way, forms a larger proportion of Google searches in Sheffield than anywhere else.) Google Trends is free to use, atgoogle.com/trends, and it is easy to waste far too much time playing with it.Indications of scaleThis form of measurement is far from perfect. The results are only approximate, and Google will not reveal the actual numbers of searches - presumably because that information is gold-dust for internet advertisers, and it intends to make them pay for it.As a result, the graphs come with no indication of scale. They merely show the volume of searches for a particular term as a proportion of all searches on Google, which makes it impossible to tell whether a sudden surge in searches for, say,Paris Hiltonrepresents a leap of several thousand or several million. So the graphs here are only impressionistic.Even with those limitations, though, they point to the extraordinary amount of information that is waiting to be mined from internet search data: as Battelle rightly suspected, these charts help show the shifting concerns of an entire culture.Sometimes, people's interests are driven fairly obviously by the news agenda: whenthe Spice Girls announce a reunion, there's an immediate rush to find out more about them. Other results arestrikingly seasonal: not too surprisingly,people seem to go shopping online for coats in winter, and for sandals in summer.But the most fascinating possibility is that search data might help to predict behaviour. After all, when we search online for a certain brand of stereo system rather than another, we are surely indicating that it's more likely we will buy that brand.Perhaps we search for a political candidate's name when we are thinking about voting for him or her, and maybe we even search for "stock market crash" or "recession" just before we start pulling out of our investments. This information could clearly be useful to a savvy marketer - it's already how Google decides which ads to show on its search results pages - or to a political campaign manager.Marissa Mayer, a Google vice-president, argues that Google Trends correctly "predicted"George Bush's victory over John Kerry in the 2004 election: our graph shows that Bush maintained his lead over his rival, in terms of search volumes, even when polls suggested the race was on a razor's edge.The same approach leads to the prediction that Hillary Clinton will beat Barack Obama in the race for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2008; before too long, we'll be able to verify that. But then again,as the graph here shows, the conservative Republican Ron Paul ranks above them both. This is the result of an internet cult around Paul that has not been reflected in regular opinion polls, which may demonstrate the limits of treating web searches as if they were representative of an entire population's opinions - unless, of course, he ends up winning.UnsettlingThere is something very unsettling about all this. We do not like to think that other people can see inside our brains, even on a collective level, and many of us will have conducted hundreds of thousands of web searches in recent years without ever giving a thought to where all that data was going. But though so much seems ephemeral in the age of the web, nothing really is. It is all stored somewhere. The internet never forgets.
AP reportsthat: "To help reduce the risk of fires, air travelers will no longer be able to pack loose lithium batteries in checked luggage beginning Jan. 1, the Transportation Department said Friday."Passengers can still check baggage with lithium batteries if they are installed in electronic devices, such as cameras, cell phones and laptop computers. If packed in plastic bags, batteries may be in carryon baggage. The limit is two batteries per passenger.The ban affects shipments of non-rechargeable lithium batteries, such as those made by Energizer Holdings Inc. and Procter &amp; Gamble Co.'s Duracell brand.There's a guide and a table at theSafetravel.dot.govsite. The table covers installed and spare lithium metal batteries with up to 2g of lithium, and lithium-ion batteries with "lithium equivalent content" over 8g but below 25g, amongst others.The rules have been made up by the government and are therefore both bureaucratic and stupid. Unless the jobsworths doing security checks have a catalogue showing the lithium content of every battery ever made, and the time to check every battey, they can only be enforced arbitrarily.Since the aim of the game is to avoid lithium-based batteries catching fire in the hold of an aircraft, probably with disastrous results, I don't want to disparage the effort. However, they could have provide some workable rules after giving the idea 10 seconds thought. For example:(1) No batteries are allowed in checked baggage. (2) You can have batteries in carry-on luggage as long as they are (a) installed in a working device; OR (b) in their original packaging; OR (c) each battery is sealed in its own transparent plastic bag.ViaBoing Boing
"The Wal-Mart Video Downloads Service closed on 12/21/07," says Wal-Mart'smedia downloads page. Customers can still play their movies,but only on the PC they used to buy them. Wal-Mart'sFAQsays:Due to licensing restrictions, you cannot copy or transfer the videos you purchased to another PC.No doubt Wal-Mart is correct in pointing users to the End User License Agreement (EULA). This says clearly that:The Content that you download will only be playable using the Authorized Personal Computer registered with WALMART.COM, to which the Content has been downloaded, and, if applicable, the Authorized Personal Devices, to which you have transferred such Content, based on the particular rights you have purchased.It would be nice to think that Wal-Mart's beta service failed because customers noticed this restriction and decided to shop elsewhere (or, more likely, go to BitTorrent). But I suspect there will be plenty of enraged customers who didn't know what they were doing.According toReuters: "Wal-Mart shut down the download site after Hewlett Packard Co discontinued the technology that powered it."HP spokesman Hector Marinez said the company decided to discontinue its video download-only merchant store services because the market for paid video downloads did not perform "as expected."There is a way out, becauseFairUse4WM 1.3will remove the DRM wrapper from WMV filesif you already have a valid license(It's not a crack. "FairUse4WM is intended to be used to make fair-use backups only.")On the other hand, Wal-Mart's customers got exactly what they paid for, and FairUse4WM goes beyond what they paid for.They didn't buy the movies, and they don't own them: they merely own a limited license to play them on one PC.It would be much better if people just refused to buy DRM-encumbered files in the first place.
Which will win the HD wars, Blu-ray or HD DVD, and what will be the deciding factor? Will energy prices mean green energy gets used more, or less energy gets used overall? What's going to happen to gadgets in general?Aleks Krotoskihosts, withBobbie Johnson,Charles ArthurandJemima Kissweighing in.Listen and let us know what you think - and what you'd like to hear about in forthcoming podcasts. And keep your eye on the blog: we'll be seeking your input and reactions to events and shows.Come the new year, fresh episodes will be available to download every Tuesday. (At worst, Wednesday. This one is just a, well, one-off.) We'll start next year by taking you around CES, Macworld, Silicon Valley and Britain's tech scene.
Amazon has scored another hit in the battle of the online music stores by adding Warner Music Group to its library of good quality (256kbps) unprotected MP3 music files. Unlike files from Apple's iTunes, the Amazon library has no proprietary DRM (digital rights management) lock-in, and the files will play "on virtually any personal digital music capable device -- including PCs, Macs(TM), iPods(TM), iPhones(TM), Zunes(TM), Zens(TM)," saysAmazon's press release.The unprotected MP3s will also play on open systems Linux and other platforms for which Apple excludes support.In addition, Amazon and WMG will make available to consumers digital music products such as album bundles containing exclusive tracks.Some of the Amazon files should also be cheaper. "More than 1 million of the over 2.9 million songs [are] priced at 89 cents", says Amazon, and "the top 100 best-selling albums are $8.99 or less, unless marked otherwise."Amazon doesn't say which WMG artists it's carrying, but theReuters reportnotes that WMG acts include Linkin Park and the Red Hot Chili Peppers. It also owns Rykodisc, and therefore the Frank Zappa catalogue.Warner Music used to be part of Time Warner but is now a public company run by the somewhat controversialEdgar Bronfman, Jr, a noted campaigner against peer-to-peer file sharing. In February 2007, in a conference call with financial analysts (transcript), Bronfman said:Let me be clear: we advocate the continued use of DRM in the protection of our and of our artists' intellectual property. The notion that music does not deserve the same protections as software, television, film, video games or other intellectual property simply because there is an unprotected legacy product available in the physical world is completely without logic or merit.We will not abandon DRM, nor will we disadvantage services that are successfully implementing DRM for both content and consumers.Sony BMG has still to convert to DRM-free music, or to MP3. TheSony Connectmusic store is still touting its own "high-quality music format, ATRAC® -- superior in audio quality to the average MP3."
There was plenty of hysteria this week about the fact thatGoogle Reader shares private data, ruins Christmas...In fact, Felipe Hoffa's post led the way, and provides an overview of developments, with links.The basic problem is that Google unilaterally changed the system so that links you thought you were sharing with your spouse or a few close friends were actually shared with anyone you'd ever chatted with via Gtalk, or possibly all your Gmail contacts.Google has tried to defuse the resulting hostility. This culminated ina Boxing Day blog postthat admits: "We'd hoped that making it easier to share with the people you chat with often would be useful and interesting, but we underestimated the number of users who were using the Share button to send stories to a limited number of people."The workaround is to tag items and share the tags. However, it's an amazingly arrogant response. Google should have just reverted to the old system and provided an opt-in for people who preferred the new way to do things. That would have silenced the angry mob while giving it time to produce an acceptable system.This highlights a problem that is almost always ignored by the people flogging online services: that you are making yourself completely dependent on them. They can change the service however they like, without asking you first. In reality, you probably don't even have copies of your own data, and can lose access to it at any time. (You should have, but I bet you don't.)The larger problem for Google is that Google Reader has now highlighted its attitude to privacy.Privacy Internationalrates Google the worst of the major Web properties, giving it a black rating for "Comprehensive consumer surveillance &amp; entrenched hostility to privacy".Will Chen, "a California attorney with a special interest in consumer rights and corporate corruption issues," has put the case for the prosecution in a blog post,Google Reader invades your privacy and it's not going to stop.Chen points to aTechCrunchitem about Google's plans for "universal activity streams":These "universal activity streams" are meant to combine all actions you take online, similar to Facebook's Beacon, and present them as a line of text in your personal activity feed on Google or an OpenSocial partner site like MySpace or Bebo. Within Google, for instance, these feeds could appear in Gmail, iGoogle, or Google Reader. The universal activity stream is expected to launch around February or March of next year.This has not been announced, but a similar capability is part of Google's so-called OpenSocial. TechCrunch says:In fact, developers already can create similar "activity streams" for their applications. Since launch, OpenSocial's documentation (see here) has always included support for activity streams that report on a user's action to whatever host the developer chooses.You can avoid OpenSocial, of course, but you can't easily stop Google tracking you. Well, you could try never visiting any sites that contain Google Adwords. Good luck with that.
"Apple has signed News Corp's 20th Century Fox studio to a new online video-on-demand service," says theFinancial Times. "The agreement will allow consumers to rent the latest Fox DVD releases by downloading a digital copy from Apple's iTunes platform for a limited time, according to a person familiar with the situation."And there's more:A digital file protected by FairPlay will be included in new Fox DVD releases, enabling film content to be transferred or "ripped" from the disc to a computer and video iPod. DVD content can already be moved to an iPod but this requires special software and is considered piracy by some studios.The launch of iPod-ready films on DVD would "help Apple sell a load more video iPods", said one studio executive. Apple and News Corp declined to comment.The Wall Street Journalhas also reported the story.Microsoft's DRM (digital rights management) system has enabled rental and subscription services but Apple's FairPlay hasn't. However,ZDNet UKsays that "Apple has updated a patent application with the US Patent and Trademark Office called 'Run-time Code Injection to Perform Checks'."In the abstract of the application, Apple describes a digital rights management system that could restrict execution of an application to specific hardware platforms. It says that while an application is running, code is injected that would perform periodic checks on the authenticity of the software. If the software is found to be fake, the application would be closed and made unusable.It remains to be seen what this might be used for, but it seems that Apple will have to extend FairPlay's functionality if it's going to rent movies....
You got a eight-megapixel compact digital camera for Christmas? That's great. Only one thing: the pixel size might be so small that you'll not get any extra benefit from it - instead, it could create more noise, which will mean worse pictures.That's theexplanationfrom the the staff of Image Engineering, an independent testing laboratory that tests digital camera for the German magazines Color Photo and c't, besides others.Quite a while ago we noticed that the image quality of digital cameras was getting worse instead of better. The reason is that today's sensors are divided into more and therefore smaller pixels. We want to clarify the consequences on this website.And they go on..The 8 megapixels devices released in 2005 showed extreme picture errors (so-called noise) under low light conditions and colour fringes in high contrast structures became visible. These problems have become even worse in today's cameras with 10 and 12 megapixels. Manufacturers have attempted to repair these problems with software for noise suppression and picture editing. Success is limited as can be seen by reviewing the sample images on this site and that's why today this is true:The problem is that as the pixels themselves become smaller, you get diffraction effects which don't just cancel out any advantage, they subtract:The result is a decrease in sensitivity of the camera and an increase in noise because the amount of light collected by a single pixel is smaller. At the same time, increasing the number of pixels is supposed to lead to more details (resolution), but in order to achieve that better lenses with high resolution and a lower lateral chromatic abberation are needed. However better lenses are bigger and don't fulfill the requirements for 'small' cameras any more.Their conclusion, though the site does give you lots of in-depth info that would be worth your while reading too:Digital single lens reflection cameras (SLRs) basically show the same behaviour but the sensor of those cameras and the single pixel is much bigger. Therefore, the cameras have higher sensitivities and show less noise. The high quality lenses provide the necessary resolution and the cameras are designed for high pixel counts.The best compromise for a compact camera is a sensor with 6 million pixels or better the size of a pixel with &gt;3µm.So it's all about the number of pixels. And their size. And whether you're using an SLR.Although it has to be said that (1) compacts are a lot more convenient (2) what about mobile phones, eh?
The Home Office has been accused of misusing its statistics on drugs in order to cover up failures in policy. The independent body responsible for providing and assessing government statistics has now asked the Home Office to "carefully consider" its handling of the figures.In July the Home Office released a consultation paper - Drugs: Our Community, Your Say. It contained a section called "key facts and evidence" in the annexe which put a very positive gloss on the government's policies. Other statistics indicating that the government had failed to achieve its targets were obscured, according to drug reformers. Danny Kushlick, director of the campaigning Transform Drug Policy Foundation, complained to the Statistics Commission. The chairman of the commission, Prof David Rhind, accepted many of his points and has asked the Home Office to explain itself."We think that most people would expect it [the annexe to the document] to provide a balanced presentation of the relevant statistical and other evidence," Rhind said in a letter to Sir David Normington, permanent secretary at the Home Office. "This particular annexe is more like a briefing document. Where a target has been met or exceeded, as is the case with the target to increase participation of problem drug users in treatment programmes, this is highlighted ... but where the target has been missed or seems likely to be missed the relevant information is presented in a low-key way without acknowledging that a target exists."Rhind added that "issues of public trust in official statistics" have recently been considered by parliament. He has suggested that the Home Office should "carefully consider" the criticisms.Kushlick said the Home Office's use of statistics was a symptom of the government's refusal to accept that its drugs policy was not working.The government had failed to achieve its target of reducing class A drug use among young people but failed to mention this, he said.He added: "One of the outcomes of the government's unwillingness to allow public scrutiny of the overwhelmingly negative outcomes of current policy is that the debate on potential alternatives to prohibition are dismissed as unnecessary and irrelevant. This is despite the 10-year drug strategy delivering almost the exact opposite of its stated goals, costing billions a year, and creating over &pound;100bn more in crime costs over the past decade, according to the government's own figures."A Home Office spokeswoman said that it had responded to Rhind's letter and stood by the statistics quoted "which are an accurate reflection of current progress with the existing drug strategy".She added: "The Home Office takes very seriously the need to ensure that we always publish accurate and robust data ... we are making progress in reducing all drug use amongst young and vulnerable people."The level of class A drug use has stabilised, and is therefore not increasing. In order to fully meet our target of reducing this class A drug use by young and vulnerable people a cross-government action plan has been developed to improve prevention, education and access to treatment."
For many in the dotcom world, 2007 was dominated by one story: the rise of Facebook. The success of the social networking service has increased optimism about the internet industry. After all, if Microsoft is prepared to buy a 1.6% share for $240m (&pound;121m), there is evidence that good ideas can be worth a lot of money. It is no surprise then that investors are looking for the next big thing - and these are some of the favourites.Etsy.comThe New York-based internet retailer says it is "your place to buy and sell all things handmade". Where Amazon revolutionised online commerce and eBay made its name allowing people to sell off their unwanted possessions, Etsy hopes to tap into the trend for hand-crafted and personalised items.With thousands of craftspeople  selling everything from clothes and ceramics to jewellery, the site has quickly become an Aladdin's Cave of the internet.Its innovative sales approach  - such as letting shoppers browse by colour, or allowing geographical searches to support local suppliers - has drawn a legion of followers. Etsy now has more than half a million registered users and 60,000 sellers.Founded by 27-year-old Robert Kalin from Boston, the site was launched in 2005 and now has more than 40 staff in New York and San Francisco.Some critics find it a contradiction - a mass market dedicated to niche products - but Kalin says: "Etsy is a distribution platform for any kind of content that isn't mass produced ... not just craft-based, it might include music."Twitter.comTwitter lets you text message large groups of people simultaneously, and for free. Sign up and send it a message - from a phone, internet or instant messaging service - and it will be sent to your contacts.Updates are limited to just 140 characters, leading Twitter's creators to call it "microblogging". The craze caught on with the technology cognoscenti in 2007, but many pundits expect it to now reach out to the mainstream.Some say it is a simple way of keeping a connection with friends and family, regardless of time and distance."Twitter is about the intimacy of details," said author David Weinberger. "Through it I see small events in the lives of friends about whom I otherwise might only learn the big events when we catch up after long intervals."Crucially, it has also been picked up by businesses as an easy way to push messages out to their customers.Co-founder Ev Williams helped popularise blogging with Blogger.com before selling it to Google in 2002.Dopplr.comWith Facebook so prominent in 2007, many copycat services are expected in the next few months. But Dopplr.com is trying to find a different angle. Aimed at frequent travellers, the site lets users keep track of where their friends and colleagues are and enables them to meet up in unexpected places - or keep tabs on who is visiting their home town in the next few days.The site had a public launch this month. During the test phase the audience was limited to international jet-setters and conference veterans, but thanks to a series of canny features - including integration into Facebook - it is ready to break out and gather many more users.The site, founded by an international team of web technologists, is run from an office in Hoxton, in east London. This year two of its masterminds, Matt Biddulph and Matt Jones, were named among the capital's most influential people.Jimmy Wales, co-founder of Wikipedia, has said it is his favourite website. "You put in your travel schedule and link to your friends. It allows you to see where everyone is. I love it," he told the New York Times.Moshimonsters.comMike Butcher, the editor of startup news website Techcrunch UK, said Moshi Monsters is "Tamagotchi meets Facebook for 7-12 year olds, but with education thrown in". Created by London games firm Mind Candy, Moshi Monsters takes the idea of virtual pet games such as Nintendogs, and adds the concepts of social networking and puzzles.Players "adopt" a monster by buying a small charm which gives them an access code to the website. They then pick their monster, and look after them by solving regular puzzles. Monsters can interact with each other online, providing a socialising aspect for children with strict systems in place to keep players safe. With its cartoon graphics and addictive qualities, Moshi wants to become the next craze for UK children - and has plans to launch in Europe and the US.The site is going through testing but the so-called "tween" market can be incredibly lucrative. Club Penguin, a children's virtual world started two years ago, was bought by Disney this year for $350m.Seesmic.comSince Google bought YouTube two years ago, a slew of video sites have arrived on the web. One to watch could be Seesmic. While YouTube has become dominated by spoofs, skits and professional marketing videos, Seesmic hopes to recapture the spirit of those who first made the site a success: people who want to put video diaries on the internet.Focused on short webcam "conversations" between individuals, the site has not gone public yet, but has had positive reviews from testers and could become the home for a generation of opinionated, attention-seeking web surfers.It is backed by Ron Conway, an early investor in Google and PayPal, and European entrepreneurs Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis, responsible for Kazaa, Skype and internet TV company Joost.When it does go public, the site hopes to plug into other hugely popular websites - such as MySpace and Facebook - rather than replace them.It was founded by a French entrepreneur, Loic Le Meur. The businessman and blogger is known for his brash style, but it is his role as an internet adviser to the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, that could  lend  most weight to the site.
"Beginning next month, customers will be able to purchase Dell XPS and Inspiron products in Tesco stores, primarily in the UK, with sales also in Ireland, Poland, Czech Republic, and Slovakia," says aDell press release.Dell products will soon be available in more than 10,000 stores and on-line around the globe. In the past several months Dell has announced relationships with Best Buy in the US, DSG International and Carrefour in Europe, Staples in the US, Courts stores in Singapore, Gome stores in China, Bic Camera Inc. in Japan, Carphone Warehouse in the UK and Wal-Mart in the US, Canada, Brazil and Mexico.Dell may have lost a lot of sales to Hewlett-Packard and Acer through not having notebook PCs readily available at retail outlets, which helped HP overtake Dell in total PC sales. It will be interesting to see if next year's rankings change, following Dell's push into retail.
"Heppy Christmas," says the Queen, on her new YouTube channel. Or OneTube, as I believe she calls it. "I very much hope this new medium will make my Christmas message more personal and direct," she says.Actually this, the most watched of the 18 videos on the Royal Channel, is old footage, the first televised Christmas message, broadcast in 1957. But she could be talking about her first foray into cyberspace. Anyway, welcome to the world wide web, Ma'am. Think of it as a bit like the Commonwealth in the sky.Her son then elbows his way into the action. We get a Day in the Life of the Prince Of Wales. Then a second day. And yet another. Here he is flicking through some papers, on the phone, very, very busy, obviously.We see him visiting a community centre, then Edgbaston Cricket Club, recalling his own experience of being bowled at by natives, somewhere in the colonies. "These characters, by God, they threw the ball at you!"Then it's back to Highgrove for a reception. Yeah, yeah, OK, this is boring, and look at the viewing figures - no one's interested, they want your mum.It's mostly old stuff - crowds showing their unrestrained jubilation at the coronation, the Queen Mother's wedding.But here's a revealing video about the garden parties, in which we learn that sandwiches, an assortment of cakes, bridge rolls, and tea are served. And another about investitures, where the Queen says: "I think people need pats on backs sometimes; it's quite a dingy world otherwise."A dingy world, your Majesty? Oh dear, is one feeling a little gloomy? I know it's early days for the channel, and congratulations for making the leap, Ma'am.But I can't see anything that's going to be pinging around between friends: "Oh my god, have you seen this amazing thing on the Queen's YouTube channel, here's the link ..." You need to make it more fun, for the internet generation. Less stuffy guff from Palace press office, more jokes. Get Philip on there, going off about something that irritates him. And Harry killing something. And the dogs. That's what the Royal Channel needs. Corgis. Making love.
We don't have room in print for all ofyour letters and blog pingbacks, but here we do. The last crop of letters and blog pingbacks for this year. Google, Apple's Leopard, satnav and our physics numeracy came under the spotlight... Click through for the whole textON GOOGLEMr Hargrave's article (13 Dec) looked interesting but it failed. He took it for granted that his readers knew how Google ranked its search results. He said it depended on "links". Well, yes, but what links and why do they matter to Google? To those of us who don't know the article meant little. And yet we know that ranking matters. Perhaps Mr Hargrave could explain next week? Brian Jones, Abingdon [Theacademic articleby Sergey Brin and Larry Page explaining how Google works is still online. - Tech.Ed]Like many who depend upon website traffic for their living, I too have mixed feelings about Google, and can see a number of sides to the issue discussed in Sean Hargrave's thought provoking article. Sadly, the writer not only presented things entirely from the perspective of SEO [search engine optimisation] companies (whom he quoted liberally) but he also failed to explain even their position and why they would be upset by Google's rejigging of their ranking algorithms. The simple reason is that it makes the SEO companies look bad. Their customers pay a monthly fee to be kept high up the rankings, which presumably the SEOs are able to do till Google changes the rules of the game, whereupon their phones start ringing. They then have to scramble to, once again, figure out how to trick Google into ranking their customer's websites highly and hopefully retain their customer's business. If only Google could leave things the way they were, then they could happily collect the monthly fees forever without having to do any more than the initial set-up. Google is indeed their Grinch! However, whatever influence the SEO companies may or may not have, when one #1 is deposed another rises to replace them. It's a zero sum game. The article did not reflect that. Even the accompanying picture painted a one sided view. The little cherub being plucked from the #1 spot was understandably upset (believe me I've been there!) but why was the chap at #2 not beaming in anticipation of his upcoming promotion to the top of the tree? Can I presume he is not a customer of your writers contacts in the SEO industry? I can tell you from personal experience that it comes as a blow to be knocked off the top spot. For years I occupied the #1 spot on searches for 'vacuum cleaner bags', but I have recently been usurped by one of my competitors. I don't think this has been achieved by foul means: their franchising program has been a success and the links to their site are legitimate and well earned. More power to them! ... but it still hurts both my pride and my profits! Sadly the margins are too small in my industry to be paying SEOs (which has motivated this rather spiteful email!) but I hope to one day regain that coveted #1 spot, and also to read a more balanced analysis from Mr Hargrave. Rob Beer, Christchurch, Dorset&gt;&gt; The major issue I feel is that while Google have the right to prevent MFA (Made For AdSense) websites and paid listing directories from clearly profiting through their algorithm and PageRank indicator, they also catch some of the people who are not intentionally doing so. The roll-out of these changes takes time to perfect and in many cases the more selective paid "review" directories will be penalised initially, as could AdWords advertisers using Google AdSense as a secondary source of income, and with Christmas around the corner it's probably not the best time of the year to be facing these sort of problems.http://www.webpronews.com/ACTIVE DENIAL&gt;&gt; Generally speaking, I'm against the death penalty because I think, all ethical considerations aside, voluntarily giving your government the right to kill you is a bad move. I'm also against my government spending money on Death Rays to keep me out of public places.http://peromyscus.blogspot.com/2007/12/twas-brillig.htmlLEOPARD: PRO, ANTIRead with interest your article on the flaws in Leopard, and while of course I have experienced the usual conflicts one might when installing a new system (i.e. my soundcard went tits up etcetc) these are only to be expected and are unlikely to be fixed through beta testing due to the fact they rely on new drivers being written by third parties, i.e. they require a little patience! Of course there are other issues as you mentioned, although I don't have experience of any of them happening to my two machines, really no more than there ever have been with any major upgrade from Apple as far as I can see from the forums and blogs. Having installed Leopard recently on no fewer than seventeen machines, some PPC and some Intel, all belonging to different people and all of which are working perfectly, I have to say I think you have been unlucky or have failed to do basic housekeeping and troubleshooting on your own machine at some point. Did you repair your permissions before installing? Niall Macaulay, PenicuikNo, a full backup, erase, install, and restore seems to be the best way of upgrading to Leopard, whatever you may have done in the past. Clearly there have been a lot more changes under the hood in Leopard and it would appear there are more chances of detritus from an earlier version causing problems. So far my MacBook (10.5.1) has had a couple of application freezes and a couple of refusals to wake from sleep, but I have had more 'problems' with something that annoyed me back in Tiger and is probably machine specific....a 'sticky' cursor. My recommendation is that updating causes problems, if you do have a clone from Tiger, go back and do it properly. Ian Orchard, Christchurch, New ZealandI have been using Leopard since it came out on my C1 MacBkPro and my ancient 1999 G4 PwrMac. I have not had any significant problems, except for Adobe Acrobat (which Adobe has promised to fix). I suggest you take your Mac to your nearest MacGenius and let them look at it, and it cost you nothing I might add. William Yaeger, Independence, Missouri, USIf Charles Arthur's column in todays Technology Guardian, "Leopard is nothing to purr about" was a blog on some website somewhere it would be just about bearable. However it isn't, it's a high profile piece of journalism in a national newspaper. In that context it's really not good enough. It's short on information, highly speculative and based mainly on personal experience that sounds quite shallow. I'd reccommend that Charles get some IT support to help him diagnose what the problems with his system might be. In so doing he may then be in a position to write something meaningful and possibly useful to Guardian readers. In the meantime I don't want to read another winge about someones personal computer in the Guardian Technology pages. It's boring and irrelevant to the rest of us, Gavin Gray, University of Edinburgh IT ServicesIf this article is a personal rant, shouldn't it be clearly labelled as such? At best the content reported is anecdotal and largely circumstantial, not supported by any comparative numbers. I've got 3 Macs - a white Intel iMac, and 2 elderly iBook G4 laptops - with Leopard installed on all 3. I haven't had the problems quoted, in fact Leopard has rejuvenated the iBooks, feeling more responsive now and recognising wireless networks on wake from sleep where I always had problems with Tiger - so much so that each machine had instructions on how to add back the network connection to make it easier for any family member to re-establish wireless connection. How did I achieve Leopard's reliability? I certainly didn't instal Leopard blindly but checked just 2 web sites - MacFixit and Macintouch - for information on installation. The best solution was to backup my existing system on each Mac using SuperDuper!, do a clean instal of Leopard and let the installer migrate my accounts, data, programs, etc., from the backup. Takes a bit longer but ensures you get the best experience from Leopard. And this procedure I recommend to all Mac users I know and those that have taken my advice are happy users. Charles Arthur mentions "Apple's very limited beta testing of Leopard". Microsoft had something like half a million people beta testing Vista - didn't do much good judging from the huge number of problems Vista users are experiencing, try printing as a starter. By comparison for every Dave Whiner there is at least one person who is moving from Vista to Leopard - yes anecdotal but with more evidence to hand than Charles Arthur has about people switching back to Tiger, I'll be bound. Shame really Charles, as you are usually more objective. Tony Crooks, EastbourneThis article on Leopard is absolute rubbish. There are lots of reviews indicating that Leopard runs faster than Tiger. I have been using it for a month now on several Macs and not one freeze. Only initial problem as my Canon Scanner would not work but Canon has upgraded its software and it works now. Mac Forums have shown no major problems with the exception of the aged 3rd Party APE plug in which works fine when the latest version is installed. Will you guys get off the Microsoft bandwagon? BS like IE has 85% of the market (about 55% in reality and most of that is business and institutions). eCommerce will not work without IE? Absolute BS eCommerce stopped coding for IE years ago. Anyone who really considers their IT options goes for OS X or Linux. BM, Nicosia, Cyprus&gt;&gt; Unfortunately, depending on where you live, it is even easier to get unwired from the Apple community even in this day of omnipresent iPods than it is to become a card carrying Mac user. I know Apple continues to expand its distribution with more stores, but Apple faces a huge challenge of trying to win the minds of people outside major metropolitan areas. It takes retail presence to win the minds of people.http://viewfromthemountain.typepad.com/&gt;&gt; I wonder why people are having such widely disparate experiences with the same software. Are our particular software configurations so different? After all, it's not like our hardware configurations can be all that different. Arthur suggests that Apple slipped up in trying to release both the iPhone and Leopard at the same time, with too little beta testing from the faithful. Perhaps. I suspect, however, that we're actually dealing with a perception problem here. Because the new OS doesn't present too many new, sparkly features, users are less patient with any perceived shortcomings. In other words, if Leopard were super-cool yet buggy we'd have less reason to complain. But since its updated features are somewhat pedestrian, we whine.http://blogs.cnet.com/ORDNANCE SURVEY OPENS A LITTLE&gt;&gt; Until this point, charities and private individuals republishing OS data have been required to negotiate licences if they wanted to stay on the right side of the law. Now they will get it for free. This is great news for lone developers. However, it is not great news for startups. The OS has "almost" come to its senses because there remains the issue that startups will not be able to create commercial businesses out of this data from the word go. Even though these are businesses from which the government could potentially extract tax revenues, again.http://uk.techcrunch.com/&gt;&gt; Stefan Geens writes an excellent roundup of the implications of this API. Removing ads from his site could only run the OpenSpace API on the Ogle Earth site for 12 hours a day due to the amount of traffic it generates.http://mapperz.blogspot.com/&gt;&gt; So let's say I add an embedded OpenSpace map to a blog post on Ogle Earth that shows 9 tiles. That should last me about the first 12 hours of every day. Sorry late-rising Californians, my quota is up! Should I add two such maps within 15 posts of each other, so that the front page of the blog displays a total of 18 squares, then Europe is out of luck too. Translation from OSese: Feel free to have a website that uses our maps, as long as it is obscure and unpopular.http://www.ogleearth.com/WII THINK..Well, i must say that the Playstation basically has a Wii built into it. Look, I have a PlayStation 3 and it is a lot better. It is more sensitive than the Wii. One thing the Nintendo Wii does not have is HD picture and sound. Even though the PS3 is expensive I still bought one at the launch price of £425.99. The PlayStation 3 is a new generation of gaming. The PlayStation 3 is motion sensitive. I hve played on a Wii and that is not as sensitive as the PlayStation. The PlayStation 3 has the ability to turn off the motion sensor. I strongly disagree that the Wii is better. Even though [the PS3] is more expensive it offers a lot more. James Kelly, KesgravePERL AND MOREDr Harper may not run Perl on Windows in Cambridge, but some of us do elsewhere. I use ActiveState Perl for all my scripting on Windows 2000, XP, and 2003 server. It does automated mail handling, ftp, web server updates and CGI, access stats, etc etc. The thing that annoys me about the HMRC cockup, as an IT security professional and a recipient of Child Benefit, is that the data was ever stored in unencrypted form at all, anywhere. It should only be decrypted at display time, and this should only be possible on terminals with no ability to save the data to anything else. None of that is new technology, or especially difficult, or expensive. David Budd, University of ManchesterTHINK PINKSarah Dobbs (Letters, December 13), is getting her knickers in a right twist, succumbing to pink paranoia and accusing you of sexism in the article "How secure are your online passwords?" on December 6. Had Ms. Dobbs taken the trouble to note that the item was written by Wendy M. Grossman, she might well have divined the reason for the pinkness but, even if I'm wrong about that, what on earth does it matter? It only becomes an issue of sexism and gender stereotyping because Ms. Dobbs has chosen to make it one. Ron Graves, Prenton [Ms Dobbs was referring to the picture with the web article; this was not connected to the writer of the article - Tech.Ed]So there was nothing gender-specific in the article. So why does Sarah think the pink keyboard was aimed at women? Isn't her assumption that it was thus aimed, in fact a truer reflection of her own gender stereotyping than of the Guardian's? George Lillington, TadworthSATNAVRe: "there was never a time when people said "and then we'll pass a place of worship with a spire ... oh, there it is ..." Oh yes there was (and still is). Not everyone is as young and funky as you, Charles. My parents' generation, to start with used to navigate by paper map just like this, complete with "there'll be a T-junction in about a mile, turn left and then we should pass a Post Office" instructions, and I'm sure many still do. And what's more, I still could if I wanted to. But I have a TomTom satnav which gets it 99% right (unlike your reviewed item) even if the TT customer service is as friendly and customer oriented as Attila the Hun on an off day - one just hopes never to have to deal with them (in much the same way as Atitila's contemporaries no doubt did). George Lillington, TadworthMORE ON VISTARead with interest your article about Vista. I use XP on a desk machine and Vista on a (new) Acer laptop. I found Vista O.K. for most things, but terrible with Office 2007. Interestingly, I replaced Office 2007 with Office 2003 on the laptop (the version I also use on my desk machine) and what a difference!! So I suspect there is something really worth looking into – the difference between Office 2007 and Office 2003. John Gibson, BracknellPHYSICS NUMERACYAlthough I've long given up trying to complain about innumeracy and scientific illiteracy in the main paper, I'd have hoped that the Technology pages would be a bit better edited/subedited in this regard (even though the section often seems designed for people who're primarily interested in games). So I was a little surprised by the gibberish in "Lasers point way to clean energy" on your front page last Thursday. (But only a little surprised, given it was a puff for fusion power - I too remember how, nearly 40 years ago, its proponents were saying we would have fusion power in 40 years, just as they're still saying now.) Could someone tell me in what way a period of 40 femtoseconds is "equivalent to one second in a million years"? In what way can a time period be equivalent to a ratio of two time periods, ie a pure number? Assuming there's a useful analogy in there somewhere trying to get out, I wonder what it is. Similarly (in terms of nonsensicalness) what does it mean to say that over a particular period, a laser can apply "10,000 times more energy than the national grid generates"? Please excuse another rhetorical question: it actually means nothing of course, since it equates an amount of energy with - presumably, given no time period is specified for the national grid - an amount of power. I realise that journalists often throw impressive-sounding statistics around for general effect, but there's no reason why they shouldn't actually make clear scientific sense at the same time. I accept that I'm partly to blame, since I gave up being a physics teacher years ago. Albert Beale, London [The "femtosecond" reference was in comparison to one second; this was omitted. The comparison with the National Grid was with the amount of power - joules per second - it generates in that 40-femotosecond blast - Tech.Ed]Someone must have commented on the errors in this article before, but just in case they haven't! "equivalent to one second in a million years" - what is? 40 femtoseconds?. I don't have a clue what this means - please explain. "applying 10,000 times more energy than the national grid generates" - no it isn't, it is only 500J. It may be 10,000 times the power, but that's because of the very short time (40 femtoseconds) that the 500J takes to be transferred. "tritium and deuterium (which have three and two neutrons respectively)." No they don't, they each have one proton, deuterium has one neutron and tritium two neutrons. Keep up the good work, but please try to get the year 10 science right! Roger Gibbs, Portland [Now corrected - Tech.Ed]WEB BREAKOUT (ONLINE)- Start at BBC news homepage - click on Country Profiles - find the UK in the dropdowns - Click on link to The Guardian in the 'Media' section (each country page has links to all the main TV, radio and newspaper websites) Sorry if you've already had lots of these, or the method is regarded as cheating... William Turrell, Canterbury [That's the best I've seen; pity there's no prize... - Tech.Ed]
TechCrunch has an interesting post aboutGoogle's growth over the past year, based on ComScore numbers. It says:According to figures from comScore Google traffic increased 22.42% this year across its main web properties (excluding non-US sites and acquired sites such as YouTube). The star performer for the year was Google's personalized start page service iGoogle which increased traffic in the 12 months to November by 267.64%. Other strong performers included Google Book Search up 54.66%, Gmail up 53.6% and Google Maps up 51.57%.iGoogle started from a low base, but back inJuly, I noted that "a growing number of people are starting to use iGoogle, the company's personalised home page offering". It's a service I show people as usually they haven't heard of it, and I think it's useful, though not everyone wants to adopt it.On the downside, traffic to Google Product Search -- formerly Froogle -- fell by 73.26%. This isn't too surprising, because it's not very good. What may be surprising is that Shopping still gets a spot on Google's hugely valuable home page, whereas Video -- down 12% -- is hidden under More.Google Video is another poor service, but perhaps Google is still struggling to stop being evil. Google Video (Beta) lets you select to search "all videos" or "videos hosted by Google" but it packs its home page with plugs for YouTube. Google owns YouTube, and YouTube dominates the market, so rival sites don't get much exposure.Search for Zune, for example, and 95% of the first 10 pages of results are YouTube videos. Search for U2 and 99% are for YouTube or Google Video. It's not exactly encouraging for My Space, Daily Motion, Revver, Blip.tv, MTV, CNN etc.WithAOL UK's video search, two of my top three Zune hits are for iTunes, and the first page of results includes CNet, iFilm, Crackle and MSN Singapore, as well as YouTube. My top three hits forU2are at VH1, AMC and IFC, though the rest are YouTube. (Your results will vary.)Of course you can route round Google's evil by including-YouTubein the query, but not many people are likely to do that. In fact, I almost always do the opposite....
The Queen has taken a bold stride into cyberspace by launching her own channel on the video-sharing website YouTube. The Royal Channel launches today as Buckingham Palace seeks to promote Britain's monarch to a youthful global audience.While aides were utterly convinced it was the way forward, the 81-year-old Queen - who only recently mastered emailing and had never used a personal computer until two years ago - was not immediately acquainted with the YouTube phenomenon. But after the concept was explained to her by, among others, her granddaughters Princesses Beatrice and Eugenie - both avid Facebook fans - she personally approved the channel's go-ahead after viewing its contents.It is launched with rarely-seen silent newsreel footage of the 1923 wedding of the future George VI to Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon, later Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, and historic, albeit grainy, footage from 1917 of Queen Alexandra visiting rose sellers in London's West End.Three films made by the late Lord Wakehurst, a former governor of New South Wales and Northern Ireland, which have never before been publicly released, also feature, showing public reaction to the death of George VI, the Queen's accession and her coronation.More footage, including recent  videos of engagements, investitures and her speeches, will be added  regularly with text translated into French, Spanish, German, Italian and Hindi.Google, the site owner, which bought YouTube last year for &pound;883m, is, naturally, delighted with the publicity. The team who developed her channel, for free, are especially jubilant because she has pipped the US President's White House channel and because she is their first 'royal' client. 'There has been a bit of an unofficial race against the White House,' one source said. 'And the Queen has won.'Two years ago the Queen confessed, while conferring an honorary knighthood on American Bill Gates, founder of Microsoft, that she had not yet used a computer.Since then, however, she has willingly embraced the internet and other major technological advances.She has a mobile phone, and last year was presented with a six gigabyte iPod by Prince William, allegedly another Facebook fan, on which she reportedly stores the Last Night of the PromsShe allowed her traditional Christmas broadcast to be podcast last year. And, not only has she acquired a BlackBerry, with its instant access to email on the move, but she has equipped all her senior aides with one too on the advice of her most technically savvy son, the Duke of York.She has also, recently, learned how to email after years of relying on staff to do it for her.The Royal Channel, www.youtube.com/theroyalchannel, launched initially with nine videos at midnight last night. On Christmas Day, at 3pm, this year's Christmas message will be uploaded exactly 50 years to the hour from her very first televised Christmas broadcast.Rather aptly, her message back in 1957, which is the channel's main featured video, was on the theme of technology and could almost have been written for this year as she told viewers: 'I very much hope that this new medium will make my Christmas message more personal and direct.'That it is possible for some of you to see me today is just another example of the speed at which things are changing all around.'A Buckingham Palace spokeswoman said: 'Through the Royal Channel the Queen's message will reach many more people. The Queen has always tried to keep up with technological advances.' She has personally looked at everything that is on the channel, including all the footage, and has been thoroughly briefed throughout the six months it has taken to develop it.A YouTube spokesman said: 'Over the last years we have seen a number of world leaders and government organisations embracing YouTube as a perfect platform to connect with the public. We are thrilled to see the British Royal Channel on the site, bringing some unique royal video footage to our global community.'Other world leaders on availing themselves of YouTube's facilities include the Prime Minister, through the No 10 Downing Street channel, and the colourful French President Nicolas Sarkozy.But as the Queen follows the determined march of her subjects into this brave new world, spare a thought for her elderly ladies-in-waiting. For decades they have been responsible for the coveted 'Stiffies', the handwritten letters on stiff Buckingham Palace headed notepaper sent out on behalf of the Queen to the thousands who write in. With more and more reliance on the internet, could they soon be relieved of this loyal duty?
Internet auction sites such as eBay are colluding with ticket touting gangs to obtain seats for top sports events and concerts, which are then sold to fans at rip-off prices, an inquiry by MPs has found.Web-based black market ticket agencies collaborate with rings of touts who obtain large numbers of seats then sell them online, the Culture, Media and Sport select committee will claim next month.A report will accuse eBay and similar 'secondary ticket agents' such as Viagogo and Seatwave of making huge profits by exploiting fans' readiness to pay over the odds for sold-out events. This weekend eBay was advertising more than 8,000 tickets to see the Spice Girls and Six Nations rugby matches. The cross-party group of MPs will demand a clampdown.The MPs' report reveals the willingness of some secondary agents to offer for sale tickets for events that have not yet been announced or for which tickets have not gone on sale, such as the FA Cup Final, a so-called 'futures market'.The MPs are frustrated that secondary sellers will not disclose how many tickets they secure from particular sources, fuelling concern that they get large numbers from individuals. The committee is also concerned about the websites' practices of allowing ticket sellers to remain anonymous and about 'limited user agreements' which allow touts to disguise their identities.The All England Club, which runs Wimbledon, and the Rugby Football Union, are among sports governing bodies which have written to eBay complaining that carrying tickets for sale, in breach of the original terms and conditions, prevents them from cancelling the ticket and reselling it at face value.Music promoter Harvey Goldsmith called eBay 'the biggest touts in the world'. They and similar unlicensed sellers let down fans by selling tickets that never arrive or are forgeries.'People think that eBay are an honourable organisation. They are rip-offs,' he said. 'EBay is such a strong brand people believe that when they transact with it they will get what they pay for. But eBay are the enabler that allows fraudulent transactions for tickets to take place.'It's not just eBay, but they are the leaders because they're the biggest. Other websites are the same. There's no guarantee of the delivery of the ticket and no chance of money back if there's a problem.'About 100 people who bought seats for last week's show by Bruce Springsteen in London's 02 arena from eBay and other websites were denied entry when their tickets were found to be forged, and about 100 were barred from attending the previous week's Led Zeppelin reunion concert, said Goldsmith.'There's a huge criminal element involved in this business. They send hundreds of people out to buy tickets at the venues or over the phone, then have a cache of tickets they sell for as much as they can through these secondary agencies. They are taking total advantage of the gullible public who believe in the rigidity of these websites,' Goldsmith addedAt present it is only illegal to resell tickets for football matches. But Goldsmith, other promoters and sports governing bodies want the government to extend the legislation introduced for the 2012 London Olympics, which will criminalise seat touting, to outlaw the resale of all tickets.Sports Minister Gerry Sutcliffe, whose portfolio includes ticket touting, told The Observer that ministers would canvass opinion about creating a list of 'protected events' of national importance for which ticket profiteering would be banned.He favoured extending the principle behind the 'listed events' broadcasting legislation, under which key sporting occasions have to be shown on terrestrial television to ensure public access, to the sales of tickets for many or all of the same events.'We await the committee's report on ticket touting. But my view is that we should be consulting on the idea that there's a list of protected events for ticketing purposes - sport's "crown jewels" - to decide what they are and how we should approach this,' said Sutcliffe.The committee will demand that eBay and similar agents open their books so they can prove their tickets come from fans who find themselves with one or more spare, as the websites claim, rather than from organised touts. But the secondary agents have already refused, citing customer confidentiality and data protection issues.The MPs will urge the Office of Fair Trading to make test cases against secondary agents to the High Court, in the way it has done with banks and credit card companies over high fees. They want the OFT to clear up once and for all if someone who ignores the terms and conditions covering the sale of tickets - which forbid selling them on at a profit - is acting unlawfully. Music and sports event organisers believe that is the case, but it has never been tested in court.The agencies claim they are just ticket 'exchanges' bringing sellers and buyers together and people have a right to sell unwanted tickets for profit. But one industry insider said: 'They perform the same role as pimps: they bring the punter and woman together and take a cut.'
Fake Steve Jobs, who writesThe Secret Diary of Steve Jobs, appears to have stepped out of character with a post that says: "I'm weighing an offer from Apple". He says:Bottom line is I've received an overture from the Mothership with a mention of a Think Secret type settlement if I'll stop impersonating Dear Leader on the Web. Nothing nailed down at this point but frankly, honestly, I'm tempted to just take it.The carrot was, however,followed by a stick. Apple's "Rambo attorney" says he "feels it is his duty to inform me that Apple's lawyers have identified at least three posts in my archive that they 'deem to be actionable'," and that "before I turn this into a public fight by continuing on my current 'course of action' I should perhaps consider the potentially serious consequences to myself and my family of doing so."And then, I swear to friggin God, there's a list of my assets with an estimated value for each and I suppose the implied threat that I stand to lose them. Which kinda scares the living shit out of me, to be honest, since they've got a pretty thorough list, which means they've been doing some research on this and the offer didn't just come out of thin air. Their lists includes my home address, most recent assessed value of my house and all the information about my mortgage; a rental property that we own; my bank accounts and investment accounts, including the college funds for our kids, whose names are used; and our boat and two cars.However, in the latest update at the time of writing, FSJ saysI'm feeling a little bit better now. His lawyer "was able to find out what the three supposedly 'actionable' items are, and they're ridiculous".The problem is deciding whether any of this is true. It's entirely believable that Apple would do this. It could also be Fake Steve's most daring spoof yet, prompted by Apple closing down the Think Secret blog. Indeed, FSJ hadalready riffed on the ideaof the EFF "working on a worldwide program aimed at helping other bloggers obtain similar cash-for-silence settlements".Since the "real" FSJ, Daniel Lyons, works for Forbes, you'd expect one of his colleagues to pick up atruestory pretty quickly, even without a tip, andreport it. So far, nothing....If it is a spoof, could it backfire? The Secret Diary is obviously satirical. Most readers seem to have been taking the threat seriously. How many will consider this sort of litigation isn't really a joking matter?Anyhoo, for the latest updates to the story on FSJ's blog, seeFSJ shutdown drama.Epilogue: On theFSJ blog, terry said...to those who write that we should have known it was a joke, there's a point THEY are missing: what FSJ wrote was so close to the truth as to BE genuine. That's both what confused people and what made it brilliant satire: it reminded many, many readers that Apple's image allows what FSJ reported to be believable or on the cusp. We had to wonder, might apple really have done that? And by wondering, we get an insight into how apple operates, or how we think it does.
There is still time to send your Christmas cards and have them reach even the most distant friend or relative in time. In fact, electronic greetings cards can be delivered anywhere in seconds, at any time of the day or night.e-cards were one of the web's early successes, led byBlue Mountain Arts. The company was founded in 1970 by poet and women's rights activist Susan Polis Schutz and her husband Stephen. They lived in the back of a pickup truck camper and drove around the US selling their silkscreen posters to college bookstores - a story Susan tells in her book, Blue Mountain: Turning Dreams into Reality.The couple built a successful greetings card company, then exploded onto the web with the launch of bluemountain.com in 1996. Three years later, it was taken over by the Excite search engine in a deal worth $780 million. Alas, this was just as the dot-com bubble was bursting. In 2001, the site was sold on to American Greetings for a modest $35 million in cash.Also in 1999, Blue Mountain's business was hit by a virus email. This had the subject line "Hi, I sent you an eCard from BlueMountain.com" and the instruction: "To view your eCard, open the attachment". The payload was the Cult worm.Of course, Blue Mountain had nothing to do with this. It didn't even send emails with attachments, the idea being that users went to the site to view their cards. But the mass emailings made many users associate innocent e-cards with viruses and spam.Phishing attacksMore recently, attempts at "phishing" have put people off the whole idea of clicking email links. Thus, the use of fake e-cards for phishing attacks has now damaged even the original e-card business.Blue Mountain also suffered when it shifted from free e-cards to paid membership. This isn't expensive - membership costs $13.99 a year for the US site, and £14.99 per year on the UK site - but web users don't like paying for things. While Blue Mountain still offers some free cards, it doesn't have enough to compete with123greetings.com, where all the cards are free.E-cards do have some advantages, including music, animations and foreign cards (French, German, Chinese and so on) that you won't find in most local shops. They're easy to send, and there's no shortage of message space. You can even send cards that the recipient can print out.And e-cards are not just for Christmas. You can send birthday cards, get well cards, good luck cards, and so on. If you want to send a card for May Day, Popcorn Popping Day, or even Coffee Percolator Day, 123greetings.com has them. Blue Mountain has cards for Breast Cancer Awareness Month, National Alzheimer's Disease Month, and other worthy causes.Even with tunes and animations, though, e-cards will never be as good as real cards sent by post. But they help alleviate that awful sinking feeling you get when you realise you've missed the last post for Christmas or a birthday, and you can send them to far more people for far less. It doesn't take long to spread a little happiness around.
There is fury in the web community on account of Apple and Nokia's reported bullying of the W3 consortium, the body (headed by Sir Tim Berners-Lee) that lays down the standards for the web. The casus belli is this: in the same way that all browsers are capable of reading baseline picture formats .gif, .jpg and .png, so the latest implementation of the web language HTML 5.0, due out soon, had planned to incorporate a baseline audio and video format, or "codec", to stop having to load plug-ins for QuickTime, Real, Flash, Windows Media, etc. This was welcomed by the developer community, whose preferred codec is Ogg Vorbis: this weird, Terry Pratchett-derived name signifies an entity of higher quality as an audio codec than MP3, and has the advantage common to all Open Source software of being free and available for development by everyone.The problem is that Nokia claims ownership of some elements of Ogg, which is essentially the file format for the streaming and delivery part of the codec. This was news to me: I thought Ogg was as Open Source as Vorbis. Anyway, Apple doesn't like the idea of its QuickTime not being the baseline video codec and, of course, iPods don't read Ogg Vorbis audio. So it seems it's going to be the same old mad world of plug-ins and incompatibilities for the near future - unless, that is, you all subscribe to the Working Hypertext Application Technology Working Group mailing list (whatwg.org/mailing-list#specs) and exert pressure. Despite the high ideals of W3C, it is often closer to Swift's Isle Of Laputa than anything sane - indeed, an angry developer recently compared it to Orwell's Minitrue. Oh dear. All things that are human are also frail and foolish. Never mind. I am sure thousands of individual voices can be as influential as two big corporations.On a happier note, I have added to my collection of unnecessary but pleasing technological doo-dads. I have not spent any time in the bathroom with you yet, so I am very happy to report that Oral-B has come up with a mad new electric toothbrush. It is so over-engineered as almost to defy description. A base station, where sits and charges the toothbrush itself, transmits by radio to a receiving element. The receiver substation is a plastic cartouche complete with obligatory LCD screen called a SmartGuide (phrases compressed with UpperCaseLetters such as this are DeRigueur for today's sad MarketingPerson), which gives a reading of how long you've brushed, and how long you've got to go in each of the quadrants of the mouth, according to "professional" brushing standards recommended by dentists. It also tells you the time and rewards you with a smiley face when you're done. Sigh. I think I'm in love.It is basically, of course, an electric toothbrush, a class of good that appeared to be in the doldrums a few years ago. They would sit mournfully gathering dust in locked cabinets in Boots, along with Philishaves and weird objects made by BaByliss - foot spas and ceramic hair rollers, that kind of thing. Recently, thanks to cheap, battery-operated models and the low cost of charging units and components, they have enjoyed something of a revival. With this model - the Oral-B&reg;, Professional Care&trade; Triumph&trade; (with Wireless SmartGuide) Oral-B ("powered by Braun") enters the luxury end of the market. I suppose, given the low cost of a basic model, the margins are so tight that it has to consider every possible way to "add value". It is the same with shaver and razor manufacturers. The core technology has not changed for 50 years, so they have to find a way to dress up new products. Although all this wireless tosh is senseless and functionally meaningless, I love it. Brushing my teeth bores me to tears and anything - anything - that relieves the tedium of the procedure is good.I want a treadmill that presents on screen a reality game that interacts with your exercise: an adventure in which you chase villains, rescue damsels or solve puzzles - this is where technology should be headed so far as humdrum chores are concerned. Come on, you eccentric British software geniuses and game designers. Help me to a brilliant white smile and slim fitness the fun way.&#183;stephenfry.com/blog
The technology group Apple has come in for criticism after forcing a website dedicated to reporting on the company's activities to close down.The ThinkSecret site, which published news and rumours about Apple's forthcoming products, had been locked in a two-year legal battle with the company after being accused of publishing protected confidential information.The fight between the $163bn company and ThinkSecret became a cause celebre in internet circles when it was discovered that Nicholas Ciarelli had started the website aged 13.ThinkSecret, described by the Wall Street Journal as "influential", has become a reliable source of information on the secretive Silicon Valley company's plans, often publishing information passed on by tipsters who had intimate knowledge of forthcoming products.The site's author was known only as "Nick dePlume" until Apple sued ThinkSecret in 2005, attempting to find out the names of the sources who had leaked information to the website. Then the true identity of its owner was revealed.The revelations about Ciarelli's age surprised and embarrassed Apple, but despite intense pressure he refused to name his sources, citing journalistic protection under the American constitution.Apple claimed that ThinkSecret was publishing industrial secrets and damaging its potential earning power - although the company's share price has more than doubled since it first launched legal action against the site - but last year a California judge ruled that the site was entitled to protect its sources.Ciarelli, now 21 and preparing to graduate from Harvard in the spring, said he had agreed to close the site and was looking forward to the future."I'm pleased to have reached this amicable settlement, and will now be able to move forward with my college studies and broader journalistic pursuits," he said in a statement.The agreement is believed to involve a payment from Apple, although neither party would comment on the terms of the deal. Ciarelli's lawyers, however, claimed a victory over the computer pioneer."The [US constitution's] first amendment has prevailed and every internet journalist should feel some strength from what's happened," said Terry Gross, of Gross &amp; Belsky which represents Ciarelli.Some observers said the deal might have appealed to Ciarelli because the timing coincided with the final phase of his university education."Apple may have simply offered a little money to prompt Ciarelli to do what he was already planning to do: kill ThinkSecret," said Bryan Gardiner, of Wired.com.
In all the excitement of Sensible World of Soccer finally appearing - it's live now Xbox fans - we forgot to wish you all a Merry Christmas. Have fun - electronic or not - and we'll be back in the new year.
"In what appears be the first move toward censoring discussion of the issue, Apple Support has locked the discussion threadBought new iMac 20" Faded Screen, which began on August 7 (the day the new iMacs were first sold)," saysTom's Hardware.Further exacerbating the censorship matter, new posts regarding the gradient color issue are being deleted and replaced with error messages, as seen in this example:iMac Screen Gradient - What's the next step?(we captureda screen shot of the postbefore it was deleted). Apple has not replied to any of the posts regarding the gradient color issue in itsIntel-based iMac Display support forum, or for that matter, even acknowledged the existence of such an issue.The same author recently complained about Apple locking or censoring threads complaining aboutproblems with Leopard, including its famous Blue Screen of Death.Apple is well known for censoring threads on its dscussion forum. A previous example was thePowerbook 17 Pixel Lines Issue. And when the AppleDefects.com site reported onApple Censoring Comments on Mac Pro NVidia Bugs, it noted:Apple is known to regularly police their support forums, removing or locking threads that are either unflattering or gain too much attention. We have reported on Apple locking and deleting threads many times in the past, fromPowerBook screen troublesto the infamousMacBook staining. No explanations have ever been given.Of course, it's always possible that Apple is removing "rants" that are not helping users solve their problems. It's also possible that Apple is unusually touchy, given that its "switch" advertising might mislead innocents into thinking that Mac users really don't have any problems.
Asustek has shipped almost 350,000 units of the Eee PC in the quarter, ahead of the 300,000 estimated, according to Taiwan'sDigiTimes. The paper says:The Eee PC will also extend its presence further in the beginning of next year with the product becoming available at Best Buy in the US while sales will also kick off in Japan, the sources noted.I had a look at this recently inTechnophile, and found the main problem is the (lack of) usability of the keyboard.However, I think there is the potential for even larger sales if Asus does it indifferent colours, if it offers a destop version, and if it offers an alternative Windows XP version, as well as Linux. But there are also a few similar machines on the way, so future success is not guaranteed.
After neglecting Internet Explorer for half a decade, Microsoft is now playing catch-up. It shipped IE7 as a quickish fix, and while that is approaching parity with IE6 in usage terms, it is concentrating on IE8. TheIEBlogsays:As a team, we've spent the last year heads down working hard on IE8. Last week, we achieved an important milestone that should interest web developers. IE8 now renders the "Acid2 Face" correctly in IE8 standards mode.Acid2 looks simple but is "one test of how modern browsers work with some specific features across several different web standards," says the blog.Since the issues are mainly of interest to web developers, there's avideoon Microsoft's developer forum, Channel 9. This is an interview with IE general manager Dean Hachamovitch and software architect Chris Wilson.
