Another week, another fleet of brands signing-up to partner with Foursquare. This time, the of-the-moment check-in application has announced separate partnerships withHuffington Postand theIndependent Film Channel(IFC).Photo bymjpeacecorpson Flickr.Some rights reservedBy friending Huffington Post or the IFC, Foursquare users will be tipped-off about recommended haunts when checking-in to the near vicinity, steadily building a virtual community around physical locations.Some reports, includingthat of ReadWriteWeb, said these partnerships marked the introduction of "location layers," but – as the unaffiliated blogAbout Foursquareand Foursquare's ownTristan Walker point out– that's not the case.Last week, the $95m-valued New York start-upannouncedit had secured Series B funding of $20m. These new partnerships add to thegrowing list of brandswanting a slice of the Foursquare pie.
There are surely no better ways to learn about genetic inheritance than looking after a cute blob character until its old enough to mate, then tracking down a similar beast with the required genetic tendencies. This is the theory behindThingdom, a free Flash game just launched on the Science Museum website.Designed to tie in with the teen-friendly'Who am I?' galleryin the museum's Wellcome Wing, this is essentially a virtual pet sim, taking its interface cues from the Tamagotchi phenomenon. Here, though, you don't just select and care for your little 'Thing' (by feeding it, playing with it and stroking it), you are also given mating tasks, which require you to, ahem, 'get busy' with a partner that meets the required genetic shopping list.Each Thing has a set of genes which govern its shape, size, colour and skin patterns, and the idea is, players will learn about the random nature of inheritance. Plus, if you mate a green Thing with a red one, the colour of your offspring will depend on which hues are carried as dominant or recessive genes – so you need to work out the most favourable combinations.It's all beautifully presented, with simple, stylised visuals and plenty of fact boxes to get across the science part. There are even little mini-games where your Thing must impress a potential partner by performing tricks like successfully skipping over a rope. Fans are able to save their progress, tracing the ancestry of each Thing as they go through the game; and through subsequent generations of their Thing ancestry. There's also Facebook and Twitter support so you can freak your friends out by telling them you've just become parent to a green flowery orb.The game was developed over six months as a joint project between the museum and creative agency Preloaded, previously responsible for the compelling Channel 4 Education gameTrafalgar Origins, which I blogged abouta while back. It's definitely worth a look, not just for students, but also for any prospective parents out there wanting to know exactly what they're letting their genes in for...
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Enjoy the latest smattering of links, as picked by the Technology teamDev aims to get Frash running on iPad &gt;&gt; CNET NewsCanny developer brings out Frash - an application for jailbroken iPads allowing use of Flash in Safari. We await the tests on battery life etc.Photo bymikealexon Flickr.Some rights reservedGovernment spends thousands on iPhone apps &gt;&gt; BBC NewsFreedom of Information request reveals iPhone app development costs ranging from £10,000 to £40,000 - a proposed DVLA "motoring masterclass" app (still in development) costing £40k.On Twitter, a close-knit network &gt;&gt; New York TimesTell all of your friends: 98% of Twitter users are within six degrees of connection from each other.Sony drops eBook reader prices - but UK still sky high &gt;&gt; PC ProNo comment from Sony on why, despite UK price cut, we're still getting a bum deal compared to our Stateside friends.Everything you need to know about the fragmented mobile developer ecosystem &gt;&gt; TechCrunchVision Mobile's extensive Developer Economics research report has some interesting findings, worth bookmarking for later reference. Interesting findings, for example, like app stores having reduced the average time-to-shelf by two thirds, and reduced the average time-to-payment by more than half.Chrome OS gets ready for gaming &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWeb"Web browsers, like IE, Chrome, Safari and Firefox, haven't traditionally been able to detect which way is up. That may soon change for Google Chrome"The unstoppable "tech support" scam &gt;&gt; PC ProPC Pro investigate a cold-calling scam reportedly affecting UK PC owners.Strong sales lift HTC profit 33% &gt;&gt; Wall Street JournalSecond-quarter unaudited net profit for the Taiwanese smartphone manufacturer was $268m, up 33% year-on-year.Facebook, Twitter, web enrich social lives, says Pew &gt;&gt; eWeek"A survey by Pew and Elon found that 85 percent of 895 "technology stakeholders" and pundits agreed that the Internet has mostly been a positive force in peoples' social lives."
This week's programme comes from the Guardian's Activate summit – a conference dedicated to the future of the web, and how we get there.The editor-in-chief of the Guardian, Alan Rusbridger, spoke to Google CEO Eric Schmidt about the search giant's current problems in China, the future of newspapers in a digital world, and Google's ongoing issues with personal information and privacy.Aleks Krotoski sits down with Martha Lane-Fox, the UK government's digital champion. She's tasked with connecting 100% of the population to broadband, and engaging them with a digital Britain. They're joined by Martha's US counterpart Beth Noveck to discuss their respective approaches to empowering citizens through the internet.Finally, Nigel Shadbolt from Southampton University tells Charles Arthur about the next phase of his drive to open up government data. After success earlier this year with national government, now comes the tricky task of securing the release of local government information.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
You may have noticed that the market research firm NPD Group has just released its list of US video game sales figures from May. While Rockstar's western adventure Red Dead Redemption lassoed 1.51 million passing gamers, Bizarre Creations' high octane racer Blur, Remedy's survival horror romp, Alan Wake and Ubisoft's athletic epic Prince of Persia: Forbidden Sands all sold less than 200,000 copies – some of them considerably less.According to trade news source MCV, Blur shifted just 31,000 copies in its first five days on American shelves, despite a big marketing push from publisher Activision, which saw the game as its Call of Duty for driving sims.It's not as if these were awful titles. Blur has a Metacritic average of 82, Alan Wake is on 83 and PoP: Forgotten Sands does okay on 75. They were also given plenty of favourable pre-release coverage in the specialist press – you'd be hard-pushed to find a 'most anticipated games of 2010' list that didn't contain Alan Wake, and many had Blur and PoP in there too. They've also been produced by well-known development teams boasting plenty of cache with gamers.So what happened?Well, the massive success of Rockstar's title was no doubt a factor. As Take Two chief Ben Federexplained to VentureBeatlast month: "We sucked the oxygen out of the room with Red Dead".There's also the small matter of a troublesome economic climate (yeah, that's still going on) – and the fact that, inexplicably,so manybig titles were launched in the same month (Skate 3 and Lost Planet 2 also arrived, and also suffered).But there were more localised reasons for all three titles. Alan Wake was following the surprisngly successful Heavy Rain into the narrative adventure space, and appeared to be a more traditional (and certainly less visually appealing) take on the genre. Blur was going up against Split/Second, another arcade-influenced racer, but this one with a more immediately compelling 'destructive scenery' high concept (although this game itself only achieved first month sales of 86k). And over at Ubisoft, the historical adventure baton has long since been quietly passed to Assassin's Creed, which is still fresh and unsullied by years of spin-offs and reinventions.But what do you – the games buying public – think? Did you buy any of these games, and if not, why not?!
IdeaLab companyTweetUphas acquired digital content aggregatorPopurlsandTwidroyd, the Twitter client for Android, it was announced today.Twidroyd – previously called Twidroid until it had to change its name to avoid confusion with products of Lucas Films which owns the trademark 'droid' - will now come as standard with new Android devices from five handset manufacturers."Acquiring Twidroyd provides TweetUp with a number of strategic advantages," said Bill Gross, chief executive of TweetUp. "Twidroyd is widely considered the best Twitter client for Android phones and it leads in market share, so its growing base of users will be a valuable source of well-informed feedback on TweetUp search on mobile devices."In addition, the popurls website, which attracts users looking for a convenient guide to the most popular sites, news, videos and blogs on the internet, will be a natural spot to display TweetUp search results and gain user feedback. This combination should enable us to more rapidly refine our offerings, generating better user experiences for distribution partners and for users searching for the world's best tweeters regardless of their choice of devices."Thomas Marban, founder of Twidroyd and Popurls, said: "We are extremely fortunate to have been able to join forces with TweetUp. With their resources and experience along with the bundling deals we have developed with a number of the leading device manufacturers, we believe Twidroyd can widen its lead as the top Android client for Twitter users and aggressively grow our distribution while taking advantage of TweetUp's business model for uncovering the best tweeters on topics of interest to our users."
Finding a good app is sorting the wheat from the chaff. With new releases appearing all the time, it can be difficult to know where to begin. Here is a selection of genuinely useful applications to try out on your mobile.iPhone●LifeForceTeam Fertility(Back Door Productions, £3.99)A unique application which provides fertility advice straight to couples, without the hassle of lengthy waiting lists. With advice from Harley Street expert Dr Lawrence Shaw, this application provides a comprehensive knowledge of everything you need to know through videos and text.The LifeForceTeam fertility app for iPhone●PolyTune(TC Electronics, £5.99)Polyphonic guitar tuning allows you to tune all your guitar strings at once, instead of plucking one at a time. Available within a pedal for a smooth £75.00, this app provides the same functionality for a fraction of the cost.iPad●Brushes(Steve Sprang, £4.99)This week's internet hit has been the artistic work ofDavid Kassanwho has created stunningly realistic portraits with an iPad and easel. Even if your skills do not match the level of his, you can certainly have fun with this easy to use painting application.The Brushes app for iPad●Live Pitch(Mint Digital, free)The best iPad apps are designed from the ground up to take advantage of the huge screen. One such example is Live Pitch - which provides real time information with from each World Cup match. A must have for any football fan, provides an entirely new way to experience football.BlackBerry●UNO(Gameloft, $4.99)Relive summers of the playing this classic card, number and colour game, UNO is a realistic interpretation of the original game and ideal for those morning commutes.Blackberry's YouTube app●Player for YouTube(Smarter Apps, free)Simple, yet extremely useful, this handy application allows you to watch high quality videos straight from YouTube. Be sure to make sure your WiFi is turned on, or watch your data costs soar with each passing second.Android●Pocket IKEA(Go2mobile, free)Ever tried to remember the name of that BILLY bookcase in the corner? Pocket IKEA allows you to browse thousands of items from everyone's favourite do-it-yourself furniture store. Avoid the crowds and spend your time somewhere leisurely than trailing around a warehouse.The National Rail app on Android●National Rail(ATOC, £4.99)The official application from the all the rail operators, National Rail provides the latest service updates, journey planning, fare information, platforms as well as live departures and arrivals. Essential for any commuter, and more reliable than the train services too.Java●iSpyCams(Warelex, free)Fancy spotting what is happening at Abbey Road? Watch boats floating down the Seine? Check if someone is parked outside your garage? iSpyCams allows you to connect to thousands of free web cams around the world, as well as your own at home.The Java iSpyCams app●UrbanDaddy(UrbanDaddy, free)Whether you are stumbling around for some fried chicken at midnight or looking for a cocktail bar at lunch time, UrbanDaddy will help you find the best locations. Providing comprehensive guides and articles to the major cities, this is an essential companion to exploring.
Apple iPhone 4 - good for Apple, bad for Apple PR, bad for mobile operators, good for HTML5 developers. And the customers? Well they're not exactly fully paid-up members of the Apple fan club either, according to a new report on the mobile web.Photo bySroownon Flickr.Some rights reservedThe unique selling point of the iPhone - it's App Store - will dwindle in appeal within two years as HTML5 becomes the standard for browsers and mobile web applications become increasingly feature-rich, says the 2010 Mobile Web Usage Forecast by mobile internet firm Volantis. And it will be gaming and social networking that provide the biggest pull towards the mobile web, the YouGov poll of over 4,000 US and UK consumers aged 18+ found.Fifty-five percent of UK-based respondents said social networking would encourage them to use the mobile web more, while 17% were keen to access games on their mobiles. Those findings certainly correlate with this year'sGSMA Mobile Media Metrics reportwhich found that Facebook accounted for almost half of the 4.8bn minutes UK folk spent browsing the mobile web in December 2009. Over a third (38%) of all respondents felt that an iPhone was inconsequential as part of having a good mobile web experience, with just one in ten Americans thinking that an iPhone was essential to enjoy the mobile internet.Volantis chief executive Mark Watson said the findings were good news for developers turned off by Apple's more restrictive approach to mobile apps: "The arrival of HTML5 will release developers from the constraints of Flash, making the user experience more varied and allowing the development of entertainment, lifestyle and business apps which are optimised to provide the same experience across all devices. Freeing developers from having to focus on either 'Apple' or 'Other' applications will further drive the mobile web market."Mobile internet users want compelling web experiences that will allow them quick and seamless access to the services that matter to them most," he said. "With the advancement of HTML5 the limitations of web apps for mobile are declining; inch by inch, function by function, handsets are becoming more web accessible."In January this year,Gartner predictedmobile app downloads would surpass 21.6bn by 2013. By the same year, the analyst said, mobile phones would replace PCs as the most common device for web access.An unrelatedreportby Denmark-based Strand Consult say Apple's latest mobile offering is "really bad news" for carriers, warning that mobile operators could well be issuing profit warnings due to large subsidies for the iPhone 4. Invoking its almost countercultural September 2009 report,The Moment of Truth - a Portrait of the iPhone, Strand Consult argue that any evaluation of iPhone 4 success should be based on six parameters:• How does the iPhone 4 differ compared to previous iPhone models?• Does the iPhone 4 have a new form factor that makes it attractive to new customer segments that did not purchase previous iPhone models due to the design?• Which customers will primarily purchase the new iPhone 4, new customers or existing iPhone customers that want the new model?• How will a massive upgrade of the iPhone base influence the economy of operators that have large customer bases that want a new subsidised iPhone 4?• What will happen with all the old iPhones when people purchase a new iPhone 4? Will they destroy them, or will they try to sell them to friends and family?• How big is the iPhone market? Is it so big that it deserves the uncritical attention it is receiving?On each of these scores, Strand Consult contends, the iPhone 4 leaves much to be desired from mobile operators, while leaving the door open for mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs) to deal in SIM-only strategies.
Pingdom graph and the remarkable 'long tail' of the top 100 websitesUsing data fromGoogle's top 1000 sites list, Royal Pingdom have put togetherthis fascinating graphicshowing just what it takes to make it to the top of the internet pile.The graphic above shows that to break into the totemic top 100, your website needs to be pulling in a not inconsiderable 22m unique visitors a month. Take those 22m visitors, add at least another 78m and your website will sit pretty in the top 13.At least 3.8m unique visitors per month will currently see your website into the top 1000 - a couple million more could see you jump 250 placesAltogether, the top 10 websites attract 2.78bn visitors per month - that's 42% of all visitors to the top 100. See the full list onRoyal Pingdom.Top 1000 websites by monthly unique visitors1.Facebook.com - 540m10.Mozilla.com - 110m25.Hotmail.com - 60m50.Sogou.com - 37m100.Thepiratebay.com - 21m200.Typepad.com - 13m300.Ourtoolbar.com - 9.8m400.Zhaopin.com - 8.1m500.The2009.cn - 6.8m750.Marriott.com - 5m1000.Trialpay.com - 3.8m
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
A computer and an internet connection at home are no longer viewed as luxuries but as essentials, according to research published today. The latest Minimum Income Standard report released by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, the social research charity, gauges what members of the public think people need to achieve a "socially acceptable standard of living".Participants decided that a computer and internet access at home were now vital for all working-age households to enable people "to participate in society", both to access job opportunities and to get discounts on services.The Minimum Income Standard differs from the government's official poverty line (which is set at 60% of the median income) because it looks beyond money and focuses on what a household has to budget for. It is an attempt to determine what, aside from physical necessities such as food, warmth and shelter, people need to allow them to feel part of society.Participants confirmed that fridge-freezers, DVD players and mobile phones are "such an integral part of modern life that everyone should be able to afford them". Everyone should have enough money to allow them to buy birthday presents and to go on a week's holiday a year (not abroad), they said.A car, however, is not seen as essential: it was judged that a minimum budget should cover only public transport.The inclusion of a computer and internet connection echoes the government's drive to get more people online – a campaign motivated partly by the desire to streamline public services and partly by a drive to foster digital inclusion. The Race Online 2012 strategy calculates that 10 million people in the UK have never been online – four million are among the country's most socially excluded, it says.The Rowntree paper reveals that a single person needs to earn at least £14,400 before tax to afford a basic but acceptable standard of living. A couple with two children would need £29,200.Because the price of food, council tax and public transport have outstripped official inflation, families on a low income have seen their benefits dwindle.The report calculates a single person whose income had risen by only the official inflation rate would have experienced a 10% fall in his or her standard of living over the past decade. "Without action to combat these effects, social and economic exclusion are likely to rise," the report concludes.According to Rowntree's calculations, basic out-of-work benefits provide less than half the minimum income for an adult with no children and about two-thirds for families with children. Those in work need to be earning £7.38 an hour – well above the national minimum wage (£5.80) to achieve this minimum standard.
With the rise of augmented reality and pervasive gaming, the notion of what constitutes a video game is set to distort wildly over the next few years. If you want to get in there early, I implore you to attend theHide&amp;Seek Weekenderfrom July 9-11 July at the National Theatre, London. It's an annual games festival, but one in which the games take place in the urban environment, and often involve crafts, art and literature rather than joypads and digital displays.On Friday night, there's Visible Cities, "a big chase game that will send you hiding, sneaking and running around the South Bank", while Saturday offers Silent Relay, which similarly involves navigating the local area, but this time, "to a carefully designed mp3 soundtrack, exchanging codephrases with players in London and Berlin." There are also games in the ICA Bar organised byLost &amp; Foundand art collectiveSTK.Location-based gaming has been an industry ambition since the early 2000s, and there have been several large scale mobile titles that have managed it, albeit with huge technical and geographic limitations. But the latest range of continually connected smartphones, together with improving geo-location technology and the unstoppable rise of social networking mean the ideas of pervasive game creators like Hide&amp;Seek are going to seep into mainstream digital game production. Imagine Farmville mashed with FourSquare and Grindr and terrifyingly, you're probably picturing the near-future of mass pervasive entertainment.And besides all that, running around the South Bank with a balloon pretending to be a spy is always going to be a good laugh.
The latest open data release from the British government details how £12m was spent planning and designingNHS.uk, and howuktradeinterest.gov.ukcosts £9.78 per visit.Figures from the Central Office of Information – today released asa summary and downloadable spreadsheetby the Guardian's Datablog – show how £126m is funneled into 46 government websites, announced on the same day thecabinet office saidthat 75% of the existing 820 government-funded websites would be shut down with rest made to cut costs by 50% and move onto "common infrastructures".But this is just the start, Labour MP Tom Watson told the Guardian: "We are just at the beginnings of the process of finding out how much these sites cost. I still don't think a department can tell you how much a website cost or how many websites there are in a particular department."This is the right thing to do. But they're not going to wave a magic wand overnight. One thing is clear, though: they can do this far more efficiently. But you need web skills in the department to be able to ask the right questions."The bad thing that's happened recently is the cancelling of contractors – unfortunately, a lot of these were people delivering web excellence and asking the right questions. But after this mass exodus of web workers in the last month, it's going to be very hard for the government to keep hold of these people."Each stage of the review announced in January this year looks set to hasten any possible move to open source software, ashinted atby cabinet minister and co-chairman of the efficiency board Francis Maude last month. Every release will also throw up new questions. The Economic Policy Centre, for example,is calling for the Governmentto release information on Google AdWords campaigns – what are they bidding on? What's the budget? How can the private sector compete? I wouldn't hold my breath on that front.For now,get to the Datablog, download the data and see what you can do with it.
It must be so hard for developers to create truly original games in the 21st century, given that so many games have gone before, and you could glibly describe Singularity as a mutant hybrid of Half-Life 2 and BioShock. After all, it combines Half-Life 2's gravity gun with time-slowing/speeding powers that are reminiscent of BioShock, and has a very Steampunk, 1950s-meets-2010 visual style. At first, it tests your patience, too, limping through a horribly slow, scene-setting period in which the gameplay seems horribly bog-standard.But it's worth persevering with, as it improves dramatically about three-quarters of an hour in, when the threads of the preposterous story finally congeal, in such a way that some decent and, indeed, often original gameplay can be generated. The action is set on a fictional Russian island called Katorga-12, in which, in the 1950s, a new element (presumably radioactive) called E-99 was found. A research institute discovered that it was devastatingly powerful, but a cataclysmic event destroyed the island and turned its inhabitants into mutants. It's up to you to time-travel (aided by a scientist who can flit between 1950 and 2010), overcome all manner of enemies and solve puzzles, in order to save the world (which was taken over by the crazed Katorga-12 commander after he discovered the devastation an E-99 bomb could wreak).The key object you have to help you in your quest is a Time Manipulation Device (TMD), which ages or renews objects that contain E-99 – thus, you can restore crumpled, rusted crates to their former glory, or crumple them up again, in order to solve accessibility puzzles. The TMD also lets you grab objects and fire them, just like Half-Life 2's gravity gun and, as it upgrades, fire Deadlocks – blue domes in which time slows down for a while. Useful for taking out enemies that tend to disappear and teleport around the room, or just buying time for a reload.The weaponry, in what is essentially a first-person shooter, is pretty decent. You can carry two guns, and alter your load-out, plus upgrade weapons at weapons lockers. An E-99 gun called the Seeker lets you steer bullets in mid-air. You can also upgrade abilities by collecting E-99 technology and blueprints – again reminiscent of BioShock, plus perhaps a whiff of Fallout 3.The gameplay is pleasantly diverse and nicely paced, with frenetic periods taking on bosses who require a strategic approach interspersed with puzzle-solving sequences and more conventional shooting, against both humans and mutants. There is even a stealth sequence, as you traverse tunnels full of blind mutants, without any ammo.You could say Singularity is somewhat old-fashioned: it's linear, adopts a well-worn shooting-and-puzzle-solving format, although it does have a multiplayer side. But it's storyline, which just seems annoyingly ludicrous at first, does at least generate some compelling and absorbing gameplay, which feels surprisingly fresh. As such, it will appeal to those who enjoyed games like Half-Life.
In yesterday's Observer, columnist Will Hutton wrotea stinging pieceabout disaffection and disengagement among young British men. Prompted by research that shows male graduate unemployment is rising much more quickly than women's, Hutton states, "one friend of mine has hit on the theory that boys have lost their fear at the same time as having misplaced any sense of ambition. With the two great animators of human motivation – fear and greed (at its best, ambition) – knocked out we have a growing army of underperforming, unnecessarily idle and too often unemployed young men."He provides a range of explanations including the decline in traditional employment and the rise of celebrity culture, which has fostered a growing belief that the route to fortune lies though realty TV shows. But at the centre of it all, he paints a depressing portrait of the archetypal 'drop out' teenager:"One of the reasons that boys do not try harder is that the penalties for disengagement are so low – indeed, there are even rewards, at least in the sense that if you don't try, you can't fail. Much better to smoke dope, hang out and obsessively play computer games all day."And of course, it was the computer gaming snippet that got magnified as a pull quote in the newspaper; computer gaming, that handy signifier for all that's dysfunctional in the lives of troubled young men. By coincidence, there's a storyline running in The Archers at the moment in which a teenager, whose father has died, has sought solace in almost continuous gaming, alone in his room, unable to express or deal with his grief...I'm not suggesting that these depictions entirely lack validity. But I'm sad that the understanding of game culture has not moved on, and that there's little attempt to recognise that games are not the solitary teen male pursuits that they were a decade ago.For a start, the family-friendly nature of the massively successful Wii, together with the multimedia capabilities of the Xbox 360 and PS3, have bought gaming out of the darkened bedroom and into millions of living rooms across the country. Games are owned by families now. But even within the traditional gaming demographic, the nature of play has changed drastically over the last few years. Through clans, guilds and tournament ladders, the world of online multiplayer gaming was providing the fundaments of social networkingwaybefore Facebook or Twitter got on the scene, often providing a rich source of friendship to young men finding it difficult to cope with the rigours of school society. Nowadays, almost every video game release has a co-op mode in which gamers can compete alongside their mates. Here, the game itself often provides simply a convenient venue for social interaction. Teenagers aren't alone when they play games anymore.Plus, games - never a passive form of entertainment - are now creative as well as interactive. The likes of LittleBigPlanet and Trackmania are based entirely around the concept of user-generated content, and both support massive communities of engaged, resourceful designers. But customisation and personalisation are now key elements of most titles - a stark affront to the theory that computer gaming is about mindlessly processing data. This is partly what social media theorist Clay Shirky (interviewed in today's G2) is on about in his book, Cognitive Surplus. Technology is increasingly a creative outlet, not a means of backing away from the world.And of course, there are the educational benefits of games. Last yeara report commissioned by the European parliamentasserted that games could teach essential life skills – it's one of dozens of similar studies. And we're not just talking about the classic, stereotypical benefits – hand-eye coordination, logic, puzzle-solving – there's evidence that games help with cooperation, complex planning and delegation. In the US, MIT runs itsEducation Arcadeprogramme, which explores and promotes the benefits of games in the classroom, while theLearning Games Networkis a non-profit organisation that seeks to spread a similarly positive pro-active message about games and education. For more on all this, seek out a copy of Tom Chatfield's excellent book Fun Inc, which studies the pervasive, positive nature of games in modern life.Look, here's a fact. Children love videogames, and for boys especially they can represent an important socio-cultural activity. So as a society, what we shouldn't be doing is demonising them, aligning them with problematic, disengaged lifestyles – if nothing else, it's the classic self-fulfilling prophesy. Perhaps part of the reason young men are failing in modern classrooms is that their needs and interests aren't being met by the syllabus, and aren't being understood by an older generation incapable of engaging with, or at least understanding, game culture.The ironic thing is, in this country, we're actually still producing some of the best games programmers, designers and artists in the world. That's through the pioneering work at universities like Abertay, Middlesex and Huddersfield where games are treated as a serious academic strand. These are (mostly) young male graduates, passionate about games and quickly becoming part of the 21st century's most dynamic and successful entertainment medium. Sure, there's a world of difference between a disaffected teenager lounging at home playing Modern Warfare, and a bright young student undertaking a degree in video game programming – not every one that plays games will be inspired into action by them. But with the increased gamification of the media and communications in general, it's not enough to tag them as an undesirable pastime; the possibilities have to be understood as much as the pitfalls.As for The Archers, and its employment of games as a signifier for damaging isolation, here's an alternative tale. My dad died of cancer in 2003. We played games together from the time he brought home a ZX81 in the early eighties, to the last weeks of his life. After his death, I too sought solace in games, but it was a positive mechanism, because the likes of Leaderboard and FIFA Football were a part of our time together. Even now, when I play something brilliant, I think 'dad would have loved this'. And there we are, for the briefest of moments, connected again. He never demonised games and never worried about the time I spent playing them.Games could and should be part of the solution with young men. Instead, all too often, they are a convenient figurehead for the problem.
UK top 10 video games, week ending 3 July 2010PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Xbox 360 (31)Wii (26)DS (22)PS3 (21)22 (2)Red Dead Redemption(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)73 (3)Super Mario Galaxy 2(3+)Wii (100)44 (–)Tiger Woods Pga Tour 11(3+)PS3 (48)Xbox 360 (42)Wii (10)15 (4)2010 Fifa World Cup South Africa(3+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (38)PSP (9)Wii (7)106 (–)Dance On Broadway (12+)Wii (100)17 (7)Just Dance(3+)Wii (100)308 (10)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (40)PC (4)349 (5)Naughty Bear(12+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)210 (–)Sniper: Ghost Warrior (16+)Xbox 360 (87)PC (13)1Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track© 2009ELSPA(UK) Ltd
Intriguing things are afoot at Twitter HQ, no doubt many of them centred on generating revenue for the four-year-old company. It should come as no surprise, then, that a new account calledEarlybirdhas launched, seemingly primed to channel offers, deals and other exclusive goodies from outside retailers.Earlybird looks the likely natural progression of other recently launched revenue streams,promoted tweetsandsponsored trends. Speaking toRead Write Web, Twitter's Carolyn Penner gave nothing away: "There are interesting things in store for @earlybird. Keep waking up early and you might be the first to find out what they are."RWW'S Michael Kirkpatrick ruminates that Early Bird could be the starting place for a number of vertical platforms such as EarlyBirdElectronics and EarlyBirdMusic, offering selected deals to opt-in customers in a similar way toKeynoirandGroupon.If early reports from Coca-Cola are anything to go by, promoting products directly through Twitter is proving a lucrative return on modest investment.Speaking to the Financial Timeslast week, Carol Kruse, vice-president for global interactive marketing at Coca-Cola, said the number of impressions (views of the sponsored trending topic) Coca-Cola had received in the short period from launch had been "phenomenal" – 86m in 24 hours with an "engagement rate" of 6%, compared with the average 0.02% of users engaging with a standard online advertisement.Kruse also indicated this new form of advertising was relatively inexpensive compared to traditional online ads.For now, Earlybird remains a private account with fewer than 300 followers – but by tomorrow morning? We'll follow with interest.
I'm away this coming week so my gaming this weekend has been purely handheld. The pick has been Dragon Quest XI on the DS. My review of the latest edition in the classic Japanese RPG franchise will be up in the next week or so but so far, so good. Anyway, what about you? How was your weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
If you are reading this article on a printed copy of the Guardian, what you have in your hand will, just 15 years from now, look as archaic as a Western Union telegram does today. In less than 50 years, according toClay Shirky, it won't exist at all. The reason, he says, is very simple, and very obvious: if you are 25 or younger, you're probably already reading this on your computer screen. "And to put it in one bleak sentence, no medium has ever survived the indifference of 25-year-olds."You have probably never even heard of Shirky, and until this interview I hadn't either. When I ask him to define what he does, he laughs, and admits that often when he's leaving a party someone will say to him, "What exactly is it youdo?" His standard reply – "I work on the theory and practice of social media"– is not just wilfully opaque, but crushingly dreary, which is funny, because he is one of the most illuminating people I've ever met.The people who know about Shirky call him an "internet guru". He winces when I say so – "Oh, I hate that!" – and it's easy to see why, for he is the very opposite of the techie stereotype. Now 46, his first career was in the theatre in New York, and he didn't even own a computer until the age of 28, when he had to be introduced to the internet by his mother. Arrestingly self-assured and charismatic, his conversation is warm and discursive, intently engaged yet relaxed – but it's his rhetorical fluency which bowls you over. The architecture of his argument is aMalcolm Gladwell-esque structure of psychological and sociological insight, analysing contemporary technology with the clarity of a historian's perspective and such authority that were he to tell you the sun actually sets in the east, you might almost believe him. At the very least, you'd probably want to – and if a guru is defined by the credulous deference he commands from others, then Shirky unquestionably qualifies. Within minutes I found myself hanging on his every word – despite being temperamentally hostile to almost everything he believes.Shirky has been writing about the internet since 1996. As the chief technological officer for several web design companies during the 90s, he was quickly hired as a consultant by major media companies – News Corporation, Time Warner, Hearst – all curious about this new thing called the world wide web. In 2000, following "an intuition that the internet was turning social", Shirky turned to the fledgling phenomenon of online social networking – an obscure concept back then, but which has since evolved intoMySpace,FacebookandTwitter, to become the web's primary purpose for billions of people all over the world. Shirky now teaches new media at New York University, and in 2008 published his first book, Here Comes Everybody: How Change Happens When People Come Together, which celebrated individuals' new power to communicate, organise and change the world via the  web.His predictions for the fate of print media organisations have proved unnervingly accurate; 2009 would be a bloodbath for newspapers, he warned – and so it came to pass. Dozens of American newspapers closed last year, while several others, such as theChristian Science Monitor, moved their entire operation online. The business model of the traditional print newspaper, according to Shirky, is doomed; the monopoly on news it has enjoyed ever since the invention of the printing press has become an industrial dodo. Rupert Murdoch has just begun charging for online access to the Times – and Shirky is confident the experiment will fail."Everyone's waiting to see what will happen with the paywall – it's the big question. But I think it will underperform. On a purely financial calculation, I don't think the numbers add up." But then, interestingly, he goes on, "Here's what worries me about the paywall. When we talk about newspapers, we talk about them being critical for informing the public; we never say they're critical for informing their customers. We assume that the value of the news ramifies outwards from the readership to society as a whole. OK, I buy that. But what Murdoch is signing up to do is to prevent that value from escaping. He wants to only inform his customers, he doesn't want his stories to be shared and circulated widely. In fact, his ability to charge for the paywall is going to come down to his ability to lock the public out of the conversation convened by the Times."This criticism echoes the sentiment of Shirky's new book, Cognitive Surplus; Creativity and Generosity in a Connected Age. The book argues that the popularity of online social media trumps all our old assumptions about the superiority of professional content, and the primacy of financial motivation. It proves, Shirky argues, that people are more creative and generous than we had ever imagined, and would rather use their free time participating in amateur online activities such as Wikipedia – for no financial reward – because they satisfy the primal human urge for creativity and connectedness. Just as the invention of the printing press transformed society, the internet's capacity for "an unlimited amount of zero-cost reproduction of any digital item by anyone who owns a computer" has removed the barrier to universal participation, and revealed that human beings would rather be creating and sharing than passively consuming what a privileged elite think they should watch. Instead of lamenting the silliness of a lot of social online media, we should be thrilled by the spontaneous collective campaigns and social activism also emerging. The potential civic value of all this hitherto untapped energy is nothing less, Shirky concludes, than revolutionary.Unfortunately, I am precisely the sort of cynic Shirky's new book scorns – a techno-luddite bewildered by the exhibitionism of online social networking (why does anyone feel the need to tweet that they've just had a bath, and might get a kebab later?), troubled by its juvenile vacuity (who joins a Facebook group dedicated to liking toast?), and baffled by the amount of time devoted to posting photos of cats that look amusingly like Hitler. I do, however, recognise that what I like to think of as my opinions are really emotional prejudices. But equally, Shirky's prediction for Murdoch's paywall sounds suspiciously like an emotional objection, rather than a financial calculation. How, then, can he be certain his entire analysis of the internet isn't just as subjective as my kneejerk cynicism?"I'd say first of all that the notion that any expression of the world can be a value-neutral description of what life isreallylike is a fantasy, right?" he agrees readily. "We're all postmodern enough to recognise that any writer on any subject is operating within those constraints. And I have the amiably simple-minded view of this stuff you would expect from an American, which is that I think freedom is good, full stop. So therefore I think I'm probably constitutionally incapable of seeing a massive spread in those freedoms as being anything other than salutary for society."But ultimately, over the long haul I'm vetted on accuracy, not on enthusiasm. So if I'm wrong about paywall, I've got no place to hide. I will have been flamingly, publicly wrong for 15 years. There will be no way I can weasel out of it." He laughs, looking sublimely untroubled by this possibility."The final thing I'd say about optimism is this. If we took the loopiest, most moonbeam-addled Californian utopian internet bullshit, and held it up against the most cynical, realpolitik-inflected scepticism, the Californian bullshit would still be a better predictor of the future. Which is to say that,  if in 1994 you'd wanted to understand what our lives would be like right now, you'd still be better off reading a single copy ofWiredmagazine published in that year than all of the sceptical literature published ever since."The one point of agreement between internet utopians and sceptics has been their techno-deterministic assumption that the web has fundamentally changed human behaviour. Both sides, Shirky says, are wrong. "Techies were making the syllogism, if you put new technology into an existing situation, and new behaviour happens, then that technology caused the behaviour.  But I'm saying if the new technology creates a new behaviour, it's because it was allowing motivations that were previously locked out. These tools we now have allow for new behaviours – but they don't cause them." Had Facebook been around when he was in his 20s, he cheerfully admits, he too would have spent his youth emailing photos of himself to everyone he knew.But even if he's right, and the internet has merely unveiled ancient truths about human behaviour, isn't it still legitimate to feel a little bit dismayed by Facebook's revelation of almost infinite narcissism? Shirky lets out a polite but weary sigh. "Would the world really be better off if we were to hide from ourselves the fact that teenagers waste a lot of time trying to either flirt with each other or to crack each other up? Like, to whom was this a mystery, prior to the launch of Facebook?" He grins in good-natured amazement."Look, we got erotic novels, first crack out of the box, once we had printing presses. It took acentury and a halffor the Royal Society to start publishing the first scientific journal in English. So even with the sacred printing press, the first things you get serve the basest human urges. But the presence of the erotic novels did not prevent us from pressing the printing presses into the service of the scientific revolution. And so I think every bit of time spent fretting about the fact that people have base desires which they will use this medium to satisfy is a waste of time – because that's been true of every medium ever launched."Shirky concedes that the web's ability to connect people with a common enthusiasm, however obscure or deviant, can create a dangerously distorted impression of what is healthy or normal. "But so the question in all of this stuff, always, always, always, is: is the net trade-off better or worse for society? I've never been a cyber utopian. I've always understood that this is a set of trade-offs. So for all the normalisation of, say, paedophilia, we also get young small-town kids growing up gay who now know they're not abnormal. And it seems to me that the net trade-off of lessening society's ability to project a sense of normal that no one actually lives up to is a good thing."I don't mean to say it will therefore be an endless fountain of raindrop-flavoured kittens from now till St Swithin's day. But rather, in the same way that we've generally decided that the printing press was a good thing – and I would contrast that with television, which in my mind is an open question – rather than just saying in thepanglossian way that all new technologies are an improvement, it is an on-the-balance calculation."The neuroscientistSusan Greenfieldproduced a report last year which suggested that the popularity of online social media was damaging children's brain development, in particular their capacity for empathy. Shirky has two children, aged nine and six, and says they live in "a very restricted media household", with only supervised access to a communal computer. "I would not hesitate to say I was addicted to the internet in the first two years. It can be addictive and things not taken in moderation have negative effects. But the alarmism around 'Facebook is changing our brains' strikes me as a kind of historical trick. Because we now know from brain science that everything changes our brains. Riding a bicycle changes our brains. Watching TV changes our brains. If there's a screen you need to worry about in your household, it's not the one with a mouse attached."Shirky does not own a television. Americans watch, collectively, two hundred billion hours of television a year, and if online social media diverts even just a fraction of that time, he argues, that has to be a good thing. "As I say in the book, even the stupidest possible creative act is still a creative act. And I'd still take the most inane collaborative website over someone watching yet another half hour of TV."By now, despite myself, I'm having to reconsider my old snootiness towards social media. There's just one last thing, I say. Had I never been online before, and had just read his book, I'd probably be so inspired by his account of the creative and collaborative instincts of the online community, I'd be rushing to log on. But if I started out on, say, the Guardian's Comment is free site, the sheer nastiness of many of the commenters would floor me like a train. If the web has unlocked all this human potential for generosity and sharing, how come the people using it are so horrible to each other?Shirky smiles, confident that he has the answer even to this. "So, there's two things to this paradox. One is that those conversations were always happening. People were saying those nasty things to one another in the pub or whatever. You just couldn't hear them before. So it's a change in our awareness of truth, not a change in the truth."Then there's this second effect, that anonymity makes people behave more meanly. What I think is going to happen there is we are slowly going to set up islands of civil discourse. There's no way to make the internet not anonymous – and if there was, the most enthusiastic consumers of that technology would be Iranian and Chinese and Burmese governments. But there are ways of saying, while you're here, use your real identity. We need to set up the social norms which say in this space you need to use your real names, or some well-known handle."Whenever you say that, people cry censorship, but frankly? Fuck off." He breaks off, laughing. "You know, getting that right is important. The whole, 'Is the internet a good thing or a bad thing'? We're done with that. It's just a thing. How to maximise its civic value, its public good – that's the really big challenge."• Cognitive Surplus: Creativity and Generosity in a Connected Age by Clay Shirky is published by Allen Lane, price £20• This article was amended on 5 July 2010. The original referred to Western Union telegrams looking arcane today. This has been corrected.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe door is bolted. Photo byAndrew Michaelson Flickr.Some rights reserved"Closed Data Now" SOCITM does a "Times" &gt;&gt; Paul Geraghty"If my memory serves me well the e-Gov Register (eGR) hosted by Brent has been showing every IT supplier sortable by product type, supplier, local government type and even on maps for about 6 or 7 years (some links below if you hurry up)." Now it's behind a paywall.Now even more open! Council Spending Data Scoreboard &gt;&gt; Armchair AuditorAdrian Short's investigation site is now even more open - the data are also available for download.Fighting with teenagers on copyright &gt;&gt; Jason Robert Brown.com"One of Broadway's smartest and most sophisticated songwriters since Stephen Sondheim" (Philadelphia Inquirer) takes on a teenager who had been giving away his sheet music online.Is Apple All The Tech Press is Talking About? With Stats &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebGabe Rivera of Techmeme gives his reasoning.The Best Visualization of the World Cup Matches &gt;&gt; Co Design"The chart shows each and every match from the first round. For each match, the green bars show completed passes, blue triangles show shots attempted, and the red dots show goals scored. That's it."Where are Helsinki's buses? &gt;&gt; Helsinki TransportHa! See if you could do this, Transport for London: real-time map of where Helsinki's trams are. (Though we're told it's very inaccurate.)$11.7m judgment against Spamhaus slashed to $27,000 &gt;&gt; The RegisterClosing the circle back to October 2006 when the spam-buster Spamhaus wasthreatened with being taken offline.Nasty Twitter Spam on the loose &gt;&gt; Sunbelt blogIt might be smart if Twitter and the link shorteners got together so that the links on accounts marked as spam by Twitter were automatically blocked.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
As everyone with an iPhone knows – and those without have been shown by a pub bore – "apps" are key to the smartphone's appeal. Small pieces of software, usually dedicated to a particular service or novelty, they give the iPhone its zing, making it easy for a user to summon a cab, or a coffee, or the latest score, or a swishy light-sabre noise. Apps can be useful, life essential,or completely pointless – and lucrative for the developers who make them.Thanks to the relative ease of fashioning an app (using a dedicated "developer's kit", which makes programming reasonably pain-free), around 15,000 are submitted to Apple every week for approval and sale through its App Store. The majority are created not by traditional software giants, but by individuals, working from home.Others have sought to emulate this success – Nokia with its "Ovi Store" and RIM with its BlackBerry App World, whileGoogle boss Eric Schmidt recently made a plea to developers to start creating more apps for its Android platform. But Apple still dominates the market. Since the App Store opened two years ago, on 10 July 2008, at least 225,000 third-party applications have been made available, with five billion downloads. This new industry is worth £1.5bn a year and Apple allows 70% of revenues from the store to instantly go to the seller of the app, while they keep 30%. Little wonder Steve Jobs has spoken of a "gold rush" for developers.We met some homegrown app entrepreneurs.Tak Fung  The gamerLess than a year ago, Tak Fung was working as a graphics developer in the games industry, clocking on among hundreds of programmers at a big computer game studio in Guildford, Surrey. Fung had worked on a successful series of big-budget games, but he had itchy feet; he wanted "the fun and glory" of making his own games. So he launched a one-man studio in his bedroom, working for months on a second-hand Mac laptop on an idea he'd had for an iPhone game. The idea eventually became an app calledMiniSquadron(minisquadron.com),  a shoot-'em-up game, featuring a small loop-the-looping yellow plane.One-man development has not been an easy ride, Fung reports; he had to eat a lot of instant ramen before the £1.79 game started paying its way. But since its release, in late 2009, MiniSquadron has sold 120,000 copies and the profits now cover Fung's rent.And after the successful launch of a second game, entitled Fox VersuscorrectFox Vs Duck(it has been downloaded 50,000 times), Fung is ready to expand his studio and is taking on a full-time graphic artist."I've moved on from Pot Noodles to things that don't taste like they're made from cardboard," Fung says. "In your face, recession!"Greg Hughes The rebelComputer science undergraduate Greg Hughes was studying at home in May when his phone rang. The 19-year-old student at Birmingham University had spent some time investigating the process that syncs an iPhone with its companion computer, and he'd realised that rather than physically linking the two together using a USB cable, it could be done using a wi-fi network. Hughes had created an app to make this happen,Wi-Fi Sync, and he submitted it to the App Store to see if it could be sold. The phone call, to Hughes's surprise, was from Apple HQ in California – a personal response to say that, though they were rejecting the app on the grounds that it fiddled too much with company hardware, Apple were impressed with Hughes's work. Would he like to send them his CV when he'd graduated?Hughes remained convinced there was a market for his app, so he put it for sale on an independent website that catered to those with hacked, or "jail-broken", iPhones. He sold the app for around £7 – and promptly made £14,000 in three days. The app has since paid off Hughes's student debt, years before his graduation, with "a decent amount left over". But will he take up that offer to send Apple his CV when he graduates? "I hope to set up a business of my own, so hopefully that won't be necessary…"Jane Ballantine: The newcomerAs a little girl, Jane Ballantine wanted nothing more than a miniature television she could strap to her wrist. "To watch on bus journeys," explains the 37-year-old from Edinburgh. "I was disappointed to discover they didn't exist."She has retained an interest in portable technology ever since, but has only this year decided to become an app developer full-time, after a career as a maths teacher and head of an e-learning consultancy.Ballantine had wanted to enter the business six years ago, with an idea to create educational games for mobile phones, but the industry seemed impenetrable to a developer with the ideas but not necessarily the technical nous to produce software. Now, she says, Apple has made it such an easy and well-supported procedure, "you can pump out apps as fast as you can write them".Female app developers are "a rare breed", according toSophia Teutschler, a German developer behind a successful tips-calculating program. Probably the most successful are Caroline Dahllöf and Carolyn Uy (lynandline.com), who make a popular children's app about a talking frog called Figaro.Ballantine hopes for success in a similar realm, creating a revision-based app for young students, which will be released in September. She is "proud of how it is shaping up", and already plotting what app might come next: it could be  a simple snakes and ladders spin-off, it might be  a "multiplayer online role-playing game explaining quantum physics" (though you fear that one might be a trickier sell)."The day I got my first iPhone I discovered its mixed bag of useful, entertaining, strange and pointless apps," she says. "I've also used it to watch TV. Just not yet on the bus."Mark Cummins and James Philbin: The emigresRobotics PhD students at Oxford, Mark Cummins (26) and James Philbin (27) slogged for years trying to make a robot that could navigate its way around by sight. "We learned early not to use the word 'artificial intelligence' with funders because of the bad press," remembers Cummins. "We called it 'machine learning'…"Towards the end of their studies, Cummins and Philbin started thinking about how they might use their robot studies to make some money, and struck on an idea for an app: a "visual search engine" that could allow mobile phone users to identify a piece of art by taking a picture of it with their camera phone.PlinkArt(plinkart.com) was created in a rush last December, so that it could be entered into a competition run by Google for developers working on its Android smartphones. Cummins and Philbin won £100,000 and used the money to fund the app; when it was released on Android Market (an equivalent to the App Store), it was downloaded 50,000 times in six weeks.It was a "party trick" product, admits Cummins – but Google liked what it saw, and fancied the technology might be useful in its own creation of a visual search engine. In April, Cummins and Philbin's company was bought out for an undisclosed sum (the pair are reluctant to reveal numbers) in Google's first UK business acquisition. Not bad for a party trick.Cummins and Philbin are now preparing to relocate to America, to work in Google's California HQ . Philbin says their success marks "the return of the bedroom coder", a niche that had just about been killed off by the scale and wealth of the computer software market. "Now it's possible for one or two guys to develop something cool, get it out there and make some money," he says. "Small people," adds Cummins, "can make a success." They fly to the west coast this month.Malcolm Barclay The kitchen-table entrepeneurhttp://mbarclay.net/New Zealand-born Malcolm Barclay was sitting on the tube, facing the familiar woe of a delay on the Northern line, when he decided to make his first app. "I was so frustrated that I couldn't get any information on the delays on my iPhone," recalls the 34-year-old. "I thought, someone should develop an app. Then: hey, why can't that someone be me?"So Barclay created Tube Status, an iPhone app that collates simple information from Transport for London about disruption on its lines. In the summer of 2008, it was released free of charge on Apple's App Store. It was well received, and Barclay was encouraged to make other paid-for apps relating to London travel: one to tell you when buses are due, another to help you plan your journey from station to station.By the summer of 2009 he was making around £4,000 a month from his software and had decided to commit to his new business full-time. He now works from the kitchen table of his flat in Limehouse, east London, working on his laptop, literally amid his pots and pans. "Tube Deluxe[an upgrade, which includes the TFL tube map] pays the rent," he says, "and combined with my other applications I make a living." And he always gets a kick when someone, anyone, reports using his product to avoid frustration on the Northern line.Howard Tomlinson The veteranThe chief executive ofAstraware, a Staffordshire-based software company that specialises in mobile apps, Howard Tomlinson has been developing software, in his own words, for "eek – nearly 20 years". Back in the 1980s, when he first started out with Astraware's co-founder, David Oakley, "it was all done by posting disks and sending cheques".Tomlinson, now 37, has seen drastic changes since those days. In 2000, he and Oakley produced their first app, a shooting game calledZap!2000for an early Palm smartphone. It was such a success it came bundled with the phones and turned Astraware from a "hobby-with-benefits to a fledgling business".Two years ago, the team turned its attention to iPhone apps, scoring hits with a sudoku game and a version of solitaire. Unlike most app developers, however, Tomlinson has reservations about the industry in its post-iPhone phase. "It's easier to makesomemoney, because there are lower barriers to entry, but making a really successful app is also down to luck, and only a relatively small number make enough to live on."Nevertheless, there has been one constant in the two decades he has been in the business. "The satisfaction when someone is willing to pay for your creativity is immense, just as in any other art."
So, what is TED? And, more important, why should I care?For 22 years, Ted was a conference, an exclusive ideas forum where the great and the good came to hear Al Gore talk about climate change and Bill Gates about computing, right up until four years ago, when TED Talks was launched online and promptly became an internet sensation. It's a bit like YouTube, but instead of featuring cats falling into lavatories, it has short, cutting-edge talks by the world's leading neuroscientists, behavioural economists, video artists, philosophers, particle physicists, rocket scientists, endurance athletes, Aids researchers… you name it, it's been at TED.What TED does is seek out the most interesting, unusual and potentially groundbreaking ideas on Earth and then provide a platform to share them with the world. At the heart of it all are the conferences. The main event takes place once a year in Long Beach, California, and in a week's time the new, annualTED Global conference will take place in Oxford. It's a smaller, more intimate affair – 700 delegates (it's 2,000 at Long Beach) listening to 50 speakers over four consecutive days.There is no shortage of shadowy, elite conferences where masters of the universe converge on Swiss mountain tops or exclusive Mediterranean resorts in order to plot world domination (think the World Economic Forum in Davos or last month's Bilderberg Group in Sitges). TED, however, is a shadowy, elite conference where masters of the universe converge in order to plot how to make the world a nicer, fairer, better place. It's a not-for-profit foundation and it's something like the World Economic Forum might be if capitalism were replaced as the world's dominant ideological system by, say, optimism.Can TED change the world? Possibly, possibly not. But trying to tackle social problems such as eradicating world hunger or reversing climate change seems a better place to start than, say, dreaming up new ways of propping up failed financial institutions with large injections of public money. It's this mission that has helped TED attract a mix of thinkers, writers, scientists, hedge-fund billionaires, tech entrepreneurs, philanthropists and radical ideologues. And that's just the audience.The unique thing about TED is that people such as Richard Dawkins, Bill Clinton, philosopher Daniel Dennett and biologist-entrepreneur Craig Venter speak for free and people such as Amazon's Jeff Bezos and Google's Larry Page and Sergey Brin pay to listen.It sounds awfully elitist…It is. That's the point, or at least it used to be. It's also expensive, at £3,460 a ticket for TED Global and almost £4,000 for TED in Long Beach (even a live simulcast event in Palm Springs costs £2,500), although money, in itself, will get you only so far. The main conference sells out within days of tickets being released, a year in advance, and a tough vetting procedure is enforced. To be invited, you must fill out an extensive application form, which includes questions such as what are your greatest personal achievements and how have they had an impact on society?For the first 22 years of its existence, TED was held in the chichi California seaside town of Monterey and was the hottest four-day dinner party on Earth; it was a kind of spring break for world thinkers, a place of inspiring ideas, but which only the select few would hear.But in 2006, once speaker after speaker had stood on the stage and talked about the CreativeCommons licences, open-source software, the wisdom of crowds and how the internet could leverage an individual idea into a mass, public action, TED took the decision to release these talks online (atted.com).The response has been astonishing: there are, to date, 727 talks online. Eighteen months ago, they had been viewed 50 million times; today, the viewing figure stands at more than 290 million. TED has gone viral. Ideas have become the new rock'n'roll.And TED is its Glastonbury?It is. Obscure academics toiling away in unknown research institutes have been dragged into the light and turned into superstars. Everybody at TED cites the example of Hans Rosling, a Swedish, bespectacled professor of international health whoseTED talkon that unlikely hot-button topic, statistics, has now been seen by millions (a top tip to professors of international health everywhere: try underlining your final point by swallowing a sword).The talks are not constrained by national or linguistic boundaries. The Open Translation Project, launched last year, encourages volunteers to translate talks using a Wikipedia-type model; in just a year, talks have been translated into 77 languages, with 8,500 completed and another 23,000 ongoing. All free of charge.TED's new motto is "radical openness", which means that it gives away all its content free. But (and here's a trick to remember, newspaper executives), at its heart it's still exclusive and expensive. A bit of elitism, it turns out, is good for business. TED makes money, lots of money, and then tries to think up the most interesting ways of giving it away again.But brilliantly, and possibly uniquely, TED has no VIP section, no special celebtastic treatment. Last year, in Oxford, Meg Ryan and Cameron Diaz showed up and, like everyone else at the conference, had to wear massive name tags the size of a dinner plate, which said MEG RYAN and CAMERON DIAZ. Even then, at least half the audience had no idea who they actually were and mobbed the theoretical physicist standing next to them.Why the silly name?Because in 1984, when it was founded by an information architect called Richard Saul Wurman, its mission was to bring together the brightest brains in technology, entertainment and design. And this it did. At that first conference, a whizzy new computer was unveiled: the very first Apple Macintosh. And somebody brought along some funny shiny silver discs, which was how the world was introduced to the CD Rom.It was still largely about TED when, in 2001, Chris Anderson bought the organisation on behalf of his Sapling Foundation.No, this is another Chris Anderson. Although, to confuse things, Chris Anderson Mark 1 has been known to speak at TED. This is BritishChris Anderson, who started out as a journalist before setting up one of the first hobbyist computer magazines, which went on to spawn a publishing empire, Future Publishing, boasting 130 magazines in Britain and America.It was when he bought TED that it began to change. Because Anderson is not your average multimillionaire entrepreneur. He was born in rural Pakistan and his parents were missionaries (his father was also an eye surgeon who worked for years in the developing world). And while sometimes the rich discover a social conscience after they've made their fortune, Anderson had one from birth. It was this, a degree in philosophy, plus some business nous and publishing experience that showed him how TED could be transformed from an elitist talking shop into a global ideas platform. Which is exactly what it has done.Anderson says it was "not a top-down plan" but a "bottom-up phenomenon". He believes it's because there was a demand for TED-type content, an appetite for ideas communicated in an inspirational way. "We put the talks out there, but it's only because people are excited by learning new stuff that it's become this amazing thing."Although there's still a techie element to TED (last year, for example, saw a demonstration of a television powered by wireless electricity), it has developed a new seriousness under Anderson. Its slogan is "Ideas Worth Spreading" and it is constantly challenging its members to apply their collective brainpower to intractable social issues. It was at TED that Al Gore first delivered the talk which becameAn Inconvenient Truth.In 2005, the TED prize was inaugurated. It's awarded annually to an "exceptional individual", who receives $100,000 and the support of Tedsters and the TED community to carry out "One Wish to Change the World". So far, it has spawned a Charter for Compassion, the big idea of Karen Armstrong, the former nun turned religious academic; and from EO Wilson, the scientist who coined the term "sociobiology", an Encyclopaedia of Life. This year's winner, to the surprise of those who still think of him as that puppy-faced bloke from Essex, was Jamie Oliver. His wish is to create a popular movement that will inspire people to change the way they eat.Tedsters?It's unfortunate but true. Delegates and speakers are indeed called Tedsters. Even the somewhat uncuddly ones, such as Bill Gates and Rupert Murdoch.What is a TED talk?Quite apart from anything else, it's short. Each speaker has just 18 minutes to sum up their life's work or their big idea and even if your talk is about how you intend to create artificial life within five years (as I heardCraig Venterdo in 2005 and which he did, bang on target, in 2010), you have 18 minutes and not a minute more.The genius of this, according to Bruno Giussani, European director of TED, is that "it's too short for an academic to do their standard 45-minute presentation and too long to improvise. You have to prepare and have to take a fresh approach. It really puts pressure on them."Or, in other words, the same old shtick will not work. Speakers have to come to TED with a new shtick. While it attracts the most stellar of international speakers, cutting-edge scientists, ex-presidents, world-class philosophers and the like, the internet is a great leveller. The greatest hits online have been people you've never heard of: thenumber one talkon ted.com is by the neuroscientist Jill Bolte Taylor, who grippingly describes the day when, aged 37, she had a massive stroke and, having studied the brain for her whole career, understood, even as her brain was shutting down, exactly how it was shutting down.At number five is David Gallo, an oceanographer who was also  a key speaker atTED x Oilspill.TED x what?TED x is the latest unlikely but spectacularly successful grassroots innovation from TED HQ. Essentially, it's a mini-TED. Self-organised and self-supporting, anyone can apply for a licence to host one, and all TED content is free, although most of those held so far use a mixture of recorded content and their own invited speakers. It was another experimental initiative, begun in spring last year, which has snowballed into a phenomenon.As Bruno Giussani explains: "We kept on having people contacting us, saying, 'Why can't you have a TED in Doha? Or Barcelona? Or Indonesia?' And we simply can't do that. We can't expand the conferences. But we came up with this 13 months ago and we thought that there might be perhaps 20 of them."In fact, there have already been 618 TED x events in 98 countries, with another 577 planned, including TED x Tehran, which will join TED x Kibera, held in a shanty town in Kenya, and TED x Nasa, featuring a roster of rocket scientists near the Langley Research Centre in Virginia.Last year, Gordon Brown got a standing ovation. So what equally improbable feats are predicted for this year?This year's theme is the somewhat untopical "And Now the Good News". So, no, George Osborne is not a featured speaker. "Read any newspaper, or turn on any news report, and there's so much doom and gloom and cynicism," says Bruno Giussani, who has organised the programme for the event. "But we think people are looking for a new sense of possibilities; for rationally optimistic thinkers, for solutions to big and complex problems."And TED itself is proof of this, he says. It's been enabled by the new technologies, because 10 years ago, ideas simply couldn't travel so far, so fast. The ideas this year include those of Inge Missmahl, a German psychologist whose strategy for transforming Afghanistan is via the mental health of its people, and Peter Molyneux, who is revealing to the world "Microsoft's new intuitive interface". It's a techie's wet dream, hotly awaited but never before seen – a Wii, basically, with no Wii or, at least, you become the Wii, controlling a screen with your movements or facial expressions.Great, where do I sign up?It's sold out, although tickets for next year's TED Global have just gone on sale. Its theme is "The Stuff of Life". Seewww.ted.comfor details.
In the technology world, the name Mary Meeker is one to conjure with. Her official job title is managing director at the investment bank Morgan Stanley. Unofficially, her title (granted byBarron's, a specialist financial publication) is "Queen of the Net". This is mainly because her regular research reports on "internet trends" have become required reading for anyone interested in understanding what's going on in the networked economy.But it also has something to do with the fact that she's been around a long time. In August 1995, for example, her employer was the lead manager on the Netscape IPO which triggered the first internet boom, and she was the firm's leading research analyst. In August 2004, Morgan Stanley also led on the Google IPO – and guess who was their leading analyst then too. Given the seven to one ratio between internet and calendar years, this means that Ms Meeker has been watching the industry for about 105 internet "years".Her latest"internet trends" presentationis a powerpoint essay so overloaded with data it would causeEdward Tufte, the celebrated expert on data visualisation, to faint. For me, two charts in particular stood out. The first shows sales of smartphones and PCs on the same timescale. It suggests that, sometime in 2012, sales of the phones will exceed those of PCs. The second chart contains two pie-charts which capture the distribution of Apple's revenues in 2007 and 2010. The differences are striking.In the second quarter of 2007, for example, 47% of Apple's revenues came from its Macintosh range of computers. The iPod accounted for 29% of revenues and iTunes for 11%, while "Others" accounted for the remaining 11%. The iPhone brought in 0% for the simple reason that it didn't go on sale until that summer.Spool forward to the first quarter of 2010 and, according to Meeker, the iPhone now brings in 40% of Apple's revenues, while the iPod and iTunes together account for 24%. Sales of Macintosh computers are now responsible for only 28% of the company's sales. These are the numbers which underpin Steve Jobs's recent assertion that Apple had become a "mobile devices" company.He followed up with a new metaphor, likening PCs to "trucks" – ie things that companies need to have but which few individuals own. This kind of talk prompted journalists to wonder whether his long-term strategy was to get out of the computer business altogether. In a nicely ironic touch, a blogger wrote a "Dear John" letter from Steve to the Mac (you know the genre: "It's been lovely knowing you but I feel that the time has come for us to realise our individual potentials separately..."). This triggered a terse, irritable response from Jobs. Suggestions that Apple was thinking of dropping the Mac were, he emailed, "completely wrong. Just wait".Well, we're waiting. Some seasoned Mac users are beginning to get impatient. Dan Gillmor, the prominent Silicon Valley observer and evangelist for "citizen journalism", has been a Mac user for many years, butrecently announcedthat he's moving to Linux running on the beautiful new ThinkPad laptops emerging from Lenovo. Other Mac users are beginning to mutter about whether Apple has essentially lost interest in what was once its keystone product. Sure, the company continues to make incremental improvements in the MacBook, Mac mini and iMac lines, but somehow the fire has gone out.In a way, that's not surprising. Companies go where the commercial opportunities are. The inescapable conclusion to be drawn from Apple's recent history is that the spectacular growth opportunities are in mobile devices, not deskbound computers or even laptops. The iPad is selling at a rate of a million a month. More than 1.4 million of the new iPhones were sold in the first four days. And the pace seems to be increasing. It took the first iPhone 74 days to reach its first million. The iPad got there in 28. Only things like the Nintendo Wii (13 days) shift faster. Then there's the small matter of the 40% contribution the iPhone now makes to Apple's bottom line. In those circumstances, if you were Steve Jobs, what would you focus on?For the rest of us, the thing to focus on is the way smartphones are overtaking PCs as the gateway that most people will use to access the internet. There are now only three players in that game – Apple, Google (via the Android operating system) and RIM (makers of the BlackBerry). Until recently, I would have said that the (open, permissive) Google/Android system would win out over the (closed, tightly controlled) Apple device. But sales of the new iPhone lead one to wonder if it will be Apple, and not Google, which replaces Microsoft as the company we love to hate.
OstensiblyNaughty Bearis a game about social ostracism – shunned by his cuddlier compatriots, the titular teddy goes on a rampage of vengeful destruction, causing pain and chaos by stalking and killing other bears, sending them insane with fear and burning or smashing their possessions. He's been spurned, he's unhappy and he wants them to know it. To the extent of leaving tortured bears alive to terrify their friends. For points.  Let's be honest,Naughty Bearis about violence.There's an awful lot of knee-jerk condemnation of unnecessary violence in games (honestly, sometimes it's fun!) butNaughty Bearcomes across as downright evil rather than humorous. For a game with a 12 certificate to base itself around maiming, torturing and killing with everything from bear traps to barbecue grills is eyebrow-raising at the very least, even if it is only teddy bears on the receiving end.Content reservations aside, the game's concept doesn't stretch well over hours of play. There are only three levels, and though rampaging around them once is fun, doing it over and over again with marginally different enemies emphatically isn't. What might have been half an hour of (violent and somewhat guilty) fun as a download game lacks stuffing as a full-price release.
It's odd to think that a first-person shooter from an industry giant like Activision can fall under the radar, but such is the publisher's apparent apathy towards its own product – little pre-release hype and a nonexistent marketing campaign - thatSingularitylimped feebly into the all-formats chart at number 38 this week.Developer Raven Software's sci-fi horror certainly doesn't deserve such a fate. It weaves an enjoyably pulpy narrative around some thrilling set-pieces and scripted shocks, and while it barely has an original bone in its body, the elements it pilfers from other quality shooters – Bioshock, Half-Life, FEAR 2 – are stitched together so expertly that the joins are all but invisible.The setting is instantly absorbing; the slow-burn storytelling intriguing. As you pick your way through the rust and decay of an abandoned Russian research station, the hollow, dilapidated structures provoke a slowly creeping dread, while notes and audio diaries detail the build-up to the Singularity catastrophe that caused this mess. Time-manipulation elements add an extra frisson to combat, as you gain the power to age enemies rapidly to dust or revert them to an embryonic state, while the Seeker gun allows players to guide bullets around corners and into enemy skulls.The gratuitously gory dismemberment that is Raven's stock in trade is a thoroughly guilty pleasure, while the jump-shocks are almost Hitchcockian in their efficiency. An entertaining – albeit currently under-populated – multiplayer component rounds out an impressive package that's one of the more pleasant gaming surprises of this year  so far.
The world's most famous golfer may not have enjoyed the finest year of his glittering career, but he can perhaps find a crumb of comfort in the enduring quality of the videogame series that bears his name. Though hardly a revolution in digital golf – the PlayStation Move controller, supported here ahead of the peripheral's autumn release, may prove more transformative – this year's game is the most polished and feature-packed edition to date.Of the new content, the addition of a full Ryder Cup tournament is the feature most likely to excite golf fans. It requires a significant time investment, especially as the game can only be saved after each round of 18 holes, and you're required to micromanage each session by regularly switching between players to ensure your team stays ahead of its rival. The Celtic Manor course (this year's Ryder Cup venue) is attractively rendered, and EA Sports have conjured a decent atmosphere, even if the audience sounds more excited and plentiful in number than it looks. Appropriately, the American sections of the crowd whoop and cheer more vigorously than their politer European counterparts, while the sustained applause that greets a birdie is all the more satisfying thanks to a difficulty level that feels less forgiving than previous Tigers.Indeed, seasoned virtual golfers can up the stakes further by employing the new True-Aim perspective. Conceived as a more authentic way of playing, it removes the aiming circle, replacing it with a vague distance indicator from which you must gauge your swing power. Rather than a tracking shot following the ball to its destination, you get a golfer's-eye view of your stroke, with cheers or groans providing an instant quality assessment of your lie.New to the club bag is a Focus meter which gradually depletes the more assists you require; a putt preview on a tricky green requires a significant Focus investment, while adding the barest hint of backspin to a well aimed pitch removes a smaller chunk. Experience points are the new currency, with birdies, long drives and close approaches helping you build your golfer's stats to near superhuman levels – though still short of the virtual Tiger's admirable skills.Whether you consider that little lot enough to warrant the outlay will really depend on how much you love the game, and the franchise, but those dismayed by the prospect of further lining the pockets of one of the world's richest sportsmen can console themselves with the knowledge that they're getting probably the best golf game ever made.
If your only experience ofTransformersis the Michael Bay films, it's only part of the picture because, for an entire swathe of youngsters, the original 1980s cartoon series/ toy advert was the real thing. This was Gen X'sBagpuss– with added robots, and fortunately it's from here thatWar for Cybertrontakes its lead.Unfortunately, focusing on the origins of the Autobot/ Decepticon conflict, before they rocked up on earth, is a mistake. It may be of great interest toTransformersaficionados, but to more casual fans cut scenes detailing Starscream's defection and Optimus Prime's ascension drag.The game is equally split between Autobot and Decepticon chapters, with a choice of bots to control in an attractive third-person shooter, using futuristic weaponry to blast the opposition. Sadly, being based on a robotic planet robs transformations of their joy – not yet robots with anyone to disguise themselves from; instead they change into dully familiar alien planes, tanks and cars. The repetitive action, largely taking place in grey corridors, compounds the error. The graphics are excellent, but they're wasted on this locale.Multiplayer co-op adds longevity, while the death match provides visceral online thrills, but this is a missed opportunity. It's a great improvement on the dire movie tie-ins, but let's have a quality interpretation of the classic series next so we can relive some choice childhood fantasies.
The phenomenal success of a phone application that allows cruising gay men to locate one another instantly using GPS technology has led to plans for the release of a straight version by the end of the year.The app, Grindr, which promises to help users "Find gay, bi, curious guys for free near you!", launched in March 2009. It enjoyed a modest uptake in the UK until Stephen Fry showed it to Jeremy Clarkson onTop Gear, prompting 40,000 men to download the free iPhone app in a week.There are now more than 700,000 men in 162 countries using it, with 2,000 downloading it every day. A Blackberry-friendly version was launched last month.Users see a grid displaying photos of men and their proximity to them. If you like the look of someone, you can exchange flirty messages before meeting up immediately. One fan of the app told theObserver: "I've probably had as much [sex] in the past eight months of Grinding as I have over the 20 years since I came out."Grindr is the brainchild of Joel Simkhai, a 33-year-old American international relations and economics graduate who worked in finance in his twenties. It took him six months and $5,000 to build Grindr, with the help of a Danish app developer and a friend who was an expert in branding, marketing and design. It's about "finding guys. Being among your peers. Socialising," he said.The rapid success of Grindr is prompting Simkhai to launch a straight version. "This notion of: 'Who is around me? Who is in this room now? Who else is like me?' – this is not just a gay thing. Gay men don't have the monopoly on loneliness and isolation."He says he gets more requests for this from women than from straight men. "I do think it will be relevant for women," he said. "We'll redesign it; we'll call it something different, market it differently."Simkhai said that Grindr was a way of getting round the problems with online dating. "With missed connections and back and forth, and: 'Oh actually, this week I'm in New York, and you're in LA...' Online dating is frustrating! It is a lot of work!"With Grindr, you see someone's picture, you meet immediately and you establish whether there is a mutual attraction.Simkhai said: "Grindr reintroduces the aspect of chemistry. And it's real. It is not a Second Life. It is not a virtual world. It's a tool. It enables real life, it doesn't replace it."He added: "It's a precursor to sex... We think sex is part of life, the basis of life. But Grindr is sexiness rather than sex."But some gay men have reservations about the app. Matthew Todd, editor of gay lifestyle magazineAttitude, said: "The commercial gay world – which Grindr is part of – is a very adult, very sexual world. And I worry when I see these young kids coming out on to the gay scene, andeverythingis about sex. There's no real concept of relationships."
Mini MoviesWatching TV online has become common practice, but unless you have a fast connection it can still be an unsatisfying experience. As the rise of YouTube has shown, short form is the perfect internet format. This site shows episodic documentaries that are around five minutes each, so you can watch them in bitesize chunks. Our favourite is theseries on Ig Noble Prizes: how can you not love a show that begins with a dry Dutchman saying, "I'll show you the duck's testicles and penis"? Also brilliant areBeing A Fish In Japan, which includes footage of a rock opera about tuna, andGrillz, on the world of hip-hop and dentistry.Auntie NubbinsAdam and Joe made an all too brief return to BBC 6 Music during the Glastonbury festival, where much Stephenage was enjoyed by one and all. If you are suffering from withdrawal, you may wish to point yourself in the direction of this fan site, which is filled with the many jingles, podcasts and nuggets of fun the duo have broadcast over the years. Travel back 14 pages and you'll find such wonders asJoe's At Home With Jools Holland impressionand Adam's box set songin the style of Bob Dylan. As well as radio stuff, there are old clips from their TV shows, highlights from Adam's YouTube channel, and the ongoing campaign to save the nation's secret station.Blog roll: ToysToy GeekBrilliant series of toy knock-offs that includes a fake Superman doll called "Special Man".Collect3dLatest designer toy releases, such as Celcius, plus 63 vinyl artists you should know and a shopping guide.Museum Of ChildhoodThe V&amp;A's toymaking blog on the history of space hoppers and the mystery of the Sindy doll factory.Battle GripSci-fi and fantasy toys, plus geek cakes, including a fabulous Carnage On Hoth masterpiece.Fortress Of Testicular FortitudeRobots, figures, Nerf guns, Beatles memorabilia and vintage Adidas football kits compete for collecting attention.Toy AhoyMinehead toy shop owners on why girls like pink, your first bicycle and eating imaginary pizza.What we learned on the web this weekSome common words you may be mistweetingThe greatest speeches in movie historyHow to spread a viral joke in 1910Beatboxing should not be encouragedMichelle Larcher de Brito is the loudest grunter in tennisTourists lack originalityDisturbing evidence of Ghostbusters and stripping mash-upA handy guide to "that guy who was in that thing"What book to buy nextNever discuss your boss on Facebook
Demon's Souls, PlayStation 3Demon's Souls, with its gloomy dungeons, legions of monsters and you, the solitary knight charged with slaying them all, looks and sounds like a lot of other titles on the market. This is different though. Roundly rejecting the recent trend for ease and accessibility, Demon's Souls is unstintingly hard, from its ponderous, tactical and dangerous combat to a total absence of light relief; this is just you and an entire battalion of undead trying to kill you. There's no pause button and no checkpoints, with deaths sending you back to the beginning of levels, until simply making it through a section produces a euphoric endorphin release more akin to having run a half marathon than finishing a level in a video game – and it's this fleeting feeling that will keep you crawling back for more. Deep, subtle and utterly without compromise, Demon's Souls is where games meet good old-fashioned masochism.Namco Bandai, £40Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker, Sony PSPMetal Gear Solid 4 was declared to be the last game featuring hero Solid Snake. This one, set in the 1970s, is instead about Big Boss, Snake's arch nemesis and the man from which he was cloned, so while he looks, sounds and behaves exactly like Snake, it's not him. With that cleared up, the next point of confusion is why a game of this depth and complexity has been crammed on to the handheld PSP. Although stunningly competent despite the limitations of the PSP's control setup, it's still a surprising choice, especially considering its creator's past whining about the inadequacies of PlayStation 3. All that apart, and hampered by the PSP's joystick deficiency, it emerges as a full-bore Metal Gear adventure, complete with gadgets, difficult stealth missions and piquant moments of self-referential comedy. There are even beautifully thought out multiplayer modes if you're near an internet connection.Konami, £17.99Dungeon Hunter HD, iPadFar from reinventing anything, Dungeon Hunter HD does precisely what you'd expect from a role-playing game, but on iPad. That means repetitive combat against volumes of Tolkien-esque enemies, gradually increasing skills, a steady supply of new weapons and subterranean areas to explore. The iPad's bigger screen makes sliding your thumb around the onscreen joypad – a cause of pointless fumbling in iPhone games – work nicely here. The only letdown beyond the lack of invention is the fact that, with a few extracurricular battles, you rapidly become overwhelmingly powerful and, as a side order, accumulate an unspendable amount of riches. This renders the latter part of the game's eight or so hours of hack-and-slash entertainment – on your way from waking with amnesia to taking out the evil queen – a little easier than may have been intended.Gameloft, £3.99
Another year, another minor variation. The&nbsp;car industry likes to talk in terms of complete overhauls, extensive updates and revolutionary redesigns. That way a car sounds so dramatic and new that it makes 2009 seem so last year. Suddenly you find that what you need is the very latest model featuring a fearlessly radical initiative on ashtray positioning.That's the theory, at least. Generally, of course, manufacturers are not in the habit of changing a&nbsp;winning hand, and Nissan is no different. The new Qashqai Crossover claims to be a makeover, but in cosmetics terms it's a facial rather than a facelift. Which makes sense. After all, the Qashqai has proven a success, so why redesign the wheel?Actually, that's one of the few things Nissan has redesigned. There's now a five-spoke alloy wheel that's perfectly nice, though I can't say it changed my view of the Qashqai. It remains that strange paradox: a car designed to look like a large, fuel-guzzling, space-eating 4x4 SUV in an era that takes a dim view of large, fuel-guzzling, space-eating 4x4 SUVs, while in fact being a relatively compact, not overly fuel-hungry 2x4 that is a decidedly on-road, urban car – a hatchback on steroids.And it works. The reason being that driving an SUV, even a pseudo-SUV, is a soothingly empowering experience. You feel on top of the road, rather than ground down by it, and protected from the beastliness of the world, in particular those revved-up, fist-faced drivers whose path you happen to be blocking.However, the Qashqai I drove was a CVT – or continually variable transmission – version. CVT is a type of automatic transmission without fixed gear ratios. Instead, it aims to match the engine revs' speed to the car's different speed demands – higher revs for increased acceleration, lower for more fuel-efficient cruising. The idea is that a more efficiently responsive engine helps conserve energy.In practice, though, it can seem as if you're in the wrong gear all the time. As if you don't actually know how to drive a car, which is an achievement in an automatic. A few times when the engine raced as I was accelerating away from a stationary position, I almost felt obliged to make theatrical shoulder-hunching movements, as if to say, "Search me, I dunno what's wrong with it."But you do get used to it, or perhaps it gets used to you. Either way, I found that after a while I didn't try to hide as I pressed the throttle. Still, it's not quite as soothing a ride as we've come to associate with SUVs. And overall, the appeal of the Qashqai remains a mystery to me. But then I don't even get why it's named after Persian nomads.Qashqai Crossover n-tec CVT 2.0Price£21,295Top speed114mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.7&nbsp;secondsAverage consumption37.1mpgCO2 emissions179g/kmEco rating5.5/10Bound forIsfahanIn a wordPuzzling
Apple has confessed that it has discovered that every iPhone uses the wrong formula to calculate how strong a signal it is receiving – meaning that it seems to show good reception when the signal is weak. It has promised a software fix for the problem "within a few weeks" which will match that used in other phones.The explanation, in which the company says it used "totally wrong" calculations to work out the strength of the signal, seems to explain why some people have complained to the company that they see a dramatic dropoff in the signal strength displayed when they hold the iPhone 4 in a particular way. Within hours of the phone being delivered to customers last month, dozens had posted videos on YouTube showing that the number of "bars" indicating reception strength fell abruptly when they picked the phone up from a desk.Apple saysin a press release on its sitethat it was "surprised" after the launch of the phone to read reports of reception problems, especially those who reported that the signal strength dropped completely – from five "bars" (the strongest reception) to none when held in a way that covers the antenna on the bottom of the phone.But after getting "hundreds of emails from users" and seeing articles about the problem, it took the phones back to its laboratories – and discovered, it says, that it has been measuring signal strength wrongly since the very first iPhone, in a development it calls "simple and surprising".The company explains: "Upon investigation, we were stunned to find that the formula we use to calculate how many bars of signal strength to display is totally wrong. Our formula, in many instances, mistakenly displays two more bars than it should for a given signal strength. For example, we sometimes display four bars when we should be displaying as few as two bars. Users observing a drop of several bars when they grip their iPhone in a certain way are most likely in an area with very weak signal strength, but they don't know it because we are erroneously displaying four or five bars. Their big drop in bars is because their high bars were never real in the first place."That would mean that the apparently strong reception that vanished when the phone was picked up was a mirage – and that the abrupt falloff was because the signal strength dipped below the normal levels for a lower range of bars.The review site Anandtechinvestigated the iPhone 4's reception earlier this week, and found that there is comparatively little difference between the signal strength needed to get four "bars" and one: a difference of 12 decibels' signal strength is enough to boost the apparent reception from one to four bars. A difference of 10dB is equivalent to a tenfold difference in the power of the signal, and a 3dB difference equates to a factor of two in the signal power.Other phones use different measures to indicate signal strength: different versions of RIM's BlackBerry, for example, will show only two bars out of five with a signal strength of -80dB – which would be enough on the iPhone to show five bars.Apple says it intends to fix the problem with a software update which will mean that the displayed signal strength matches the formula recommended by AT&amp;T, the sole phone provider for iPhones in the US. There is no comment yet from UK phone providers as to whether the formula they recommend for signal strength is the same as AT&amp;T's. Nor is AT&amp;T's measurement system available online: the phrase "recommended formula" does not appear in any of its developer documentation, and an AT&amp;T representative said that "You will need to speak to Apple about its letter."But Apple insists that the iPhone 4's wireless performance is "the best we have ever shipped" and that for the vast majority of users, "this software update will only make your bars more accurate".The company is facing a class action in the US from angry buyers of the iPhone 4 who have complained that Apple knew about the issues with the antennas before the phone was released. The company has not yet responded to the lawsuit, though in its letter it points out that dissatisfied customers can return their phones for a refund.
Monster Hunter fans take note, your beloved beast-battling adventure may be about to get some competition. Square Enix has today officially announcedLord of Arcana, a PSP exclusive action game in which teams of up to four players go into combat against a series our monsters and demons. Felling each behemoth earns your customisable character new items and skills, and you're also able to craft weapons from thousands of different combinations.So, yes, sounds a teeny-weeny bit likeMonster Hunter- a game in which up to four players go into combat against a series of monsters, earning items and skills and also crafting weapons from thousands of different combinations.Set on a mythical world named Horodyn, where the powerful Arcana stone provides the source of all order in the domain, Lord of Arcana promises processor-busting visuals, monster designs by world-famous Square Enix artists and a huge range of diverse missions. There will also be plenty of DLC apparently. Of course, what Square Enix needs to do to carve itself a niche beside Capcom's hugely successful series, is to provide something a little less daunting than Monster Hunter, which almost prides itself on willfully confusing unwary newcomers. Indeed, the publisher is emphasising that, although there's a custom combat system, it's all very simple and one-touch accessible.Anyway, there are lots of Monster Hunter Tri fans amid our Chatterbox contributors so thought this one might prove interesting. Plus, it's another big PSP exclusive from Square Enix, which is also bringing us Kingdom Hearts Birth by Sleep later this year.
Steve Jobs and Bill Gates at AllThingsD, May 2007. Photo byJoion Flickr.Some rights reservedThe email exchange attributed by the Boy Genius Report site to Steve Jobs - in which it wasclaimedthat Jobs told someone to "Retire, relax, enjoy your family. It is just a phone" - was a fake,Apple's official PR has told Fortune.The conversation (which seemed a bit odd: the emailer was very aggressive, and "Jobs" surprisingly mellow and wordy, as well as dismissive about the phone) was emphatically not from Jobs.Meanwhile, AppleInsider is saying that a similar exchange was being offered to it - for cash - a few days before BGR published it.This creates an interesting element to what had been a seven-day wonder: Jobs's apparent tendency to respond, quite randomly, to emails sent from people out in the wide world.How long has Jobs been doing this? There's a photopurporting to show such an exchangedating back to March 2006, in which someone emailed steve@mac.com (an email that was purportedly Jobs's) to grumble about how he'd bought an iMac but now Apple had brought out anewone so his old one was out of date, grumble grumble. To which "Jobs's" reply was "The iMac G5 is a splendid computer and will remain so for a long time to come. Not to worry."Now, that sounds like the sort of Zen-like thing Jobs does say in interviews and press exchanges; I recall being there once when someone asked him about what measures there were against pirating Mac OSX, and Jobs replied - you have to add the ironical note in your head - "But that would be bad! You don't want to go to hell, do you?" (I wanted to point out that he himself doesn't believe in hell, as he's a Buddhist, but it wasn't quite the right time.)Then - if we allow for the purposes of argument that that was from Jobs (and not just from an Apple developer or similar inside Apple who was put in charge of the "steve@mac.com" address and told to treat it like customer services, except regal) - it seems to have gone quiet until November 2009, when he apparently told an outraged developer complaining about the problems with the use of the iPod name and icon in his app to "Just change the name of your app. Not that big of a deal. Steve. Sent from my iPhone." (The last bit added automatically, of course.)There are three interesting elements to this:1) a chief executive of a very large technology company responding directly to customers. Do any others of them do this? Did Bill Gates (famously famous for being billg@microsoft.com, whereas Jobs is allegedly on sjobs@apple.com) ever do it? Not to my recollection. You could imagine that there might be all sorts of stock market sensitivity if Jobs were really suggesting in any email that there were a software fix coming for the iPhone, since it would imply a problem.2) Apple's PR has, it must be said, done a woeful job on this. If the emails are really from Jobs, then he has been routing around them in a way that must be embarrassing: it should really be for customer service or the PR side to make such statements. If the emails are fake, it has been letting them get out of hand, and by not pointing out that the fake ones more quickly (even the BGR one washed around the net for a while) it's been too slow. Though possibly Jobs is a bit defensive of his outbox, or something.3) things have developed so quickly that there are now people who see a market insellingpurported Jobs emails. We thought thatonly worked with phones.We're waiting to find out ifanyof those emails really came from Jobs. Though we're not sure if we should hold our breaths...
Sure, the App Store may have two billion titles (perhaps a slight exaggeration), and the iPhone remains the tech poseur's handset of choice, but quietly and determinedly, the competition to provide a smartphone with true next-gen gaming potential is hotting up. Google's Android platform is now attracting some serious attention from both indie developers and major games publishers, and fascinating alternatives like Samsung's Bada and the Linux-basedMeeGoare pulling in plenty of formative interest.So which of these new devices should you consider if you're after an iPhone alternative? I put the question to several game makers as well as mobile industry veteran Julian Jones, who now advises iPhone developers on transferring their titles to emerging smartphone platforms. Here's what we all came up with...Samsung Wave 8500SThis quirky, leftfield handset, sporting Samsung's ownBadaOS, has proved popular with all the developers I spoke to, thanks to its rich, vibrant 'super AMOLED' screen, responsive touch controls and powerful 1GHz processor. Although not as heavily populated as the Google and Apple offerings, the Samsung Apps store has plenty to offer gamers, including a decent version of EA's Need for Speed: Shift, Gameloft's Real Football and some interesting exclusives. The ethereal woodland puzzler, Glo, from UK developerMere Mortals, looks lovely (there's a videohere). "Having spoken to Samsung they are promising more titles and a growing list of publishers supporting the platform," says Julian Jones. "Playing Need for Speed is a joy – it's full screen, fast and full of action. The graphics are on par with, if not slightly better than, the iPhone."Nexus OneBuilt by HTC but branded as Google this has been billed as the flagship Android smartphone. It's another one with a big 480x800 display, as well as good touch screen (now that multi touch is supported), accelerometer and a powerful Qualcomm QSD 8250 1Ghz processor. Despite packing plenty of oomph, it's extremely svelte at just over 11mm thick. And of course, it provides access to the 30,000 or so apps on the Google Android store, including the engrossing RPG Zenonia, I-Play's frantic Diner Dash style title, Turbo Subs and the addictive 'tower defense'-style strategy romp, Robo Defense.Motorola MilestoneWith its harsh, angular design and slide out QWERTY keyboard, Milestone (or Droid as it's preferably named in the US) is something of a design iconoclast amid a range of super slim, curvaceous contenders. But it's another strong Android handset with a large screen, ARM Cortex A8 550-Mhz processor and 5-megapixel camera. "Like the Samsung's Wave, the Motorola Droid features a stunning screen, fast CPU and GPU, along with a GPS, Compass and Accelerometer," says Jones. "All these have to be present if your going to enjoy the cooler mashed up, 3D and augmented reality apps that make these platforms hum." You might want to hold off on this one though. Not only has it been arguably outpaced by the Nexus One, but Google has just officially unveiled its successor, the Droid X, which features a 4.3-inch display and 8-megapixel camera. No word on a UK release date though.SonyEricsson Xperia X10I took one of these to E3 and it's a very solid, feature-packed smartphone, with a lovely 480x853 screen, 1Ghz processor and impressive 8-megapixel camera. I downloaded the Twidroid app and found it dead easy to take snaps on the show floor and get them up online, while the Timescape and Mediascape apps, which manage your social networking and audio-visual activities, are an interesting addition. As for games, it's another strong performer, especially with that enormous four-inch screen. For those who find it a little too cumbersome, though, there's the smaller, cuter Xperia X10 mini, complete with a teeny slide-out QWERTY keyboard.Windows Phone 7Okay, so Microsoft has just ditched its Kin series of phones, but the forthcoming handsets built around the corporation's new Windows Phone 7 technology should be more interesting. "At a recent Microsoft developer day I got play with the new WinMo 7 and it pleasantly surprised me," says Jones. "It looks to be a complete reboot in terms of philosophy. Microsoft are driving the user experience hard – this is not 'Windows on a phone' in any sense…" Most importantly, the OS features a games hub, which allows users to access their Xbox Live account, checking up on achievements, game invites, downloads, etc. The handsets will also support Microsoft's XNA development kit, which means many Xbox Live Indie games (and a few commercial Xbox Live Arcade titles) will be easily transferable to the platform. It's the most interesting interplay between phone and console since Sony's Aino handset, which offered (very complicated) access to your PS3 content. Could this finally be Microsoft's victorious entry into the previously troublesome smartphone arena? We'll find out when the first compatible handsets are released this autumn...
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I have to say that being on the road quite a bit, the satnav is very convenient. I still occasionally use the good old-fashioned map book, but the satnav has been an absolute breath of fresh air.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Yesterday, to take me from West London down to Kent and it got to the point, about 70 miles into my journey, that it was taking me completely the wrong way. But it eventually delivered me to where I needed to be.What additional features would you add if you could?My particular satnav doesn't have a heavy traffic warning facility, so I would add that to it.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, because people will always want to know where they're going. And, of course, it will be developed – you'll have 3D ones with HD pictures of where you're passing.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Items of technology [seem to be getting]smaller and smaller physically, and yet their handbooks get thicker and thicker. It's the instructions and technical aspects that frustrate me.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Between cassettes and iPods, you had portable CD players that you could jog with – but that thing never worked properly. After about three months, it just stopped working – it was a throw-in-the-bin job.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Make friends with someone who understands it.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Luddite, definitely. Some would say both, but luddite really.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I'd say it's probably my first foray into serious SLR digital cameras, which was a Nikon D100 which I traded in a film camera for.Mac or PC, and why?PC, because people told me that Mac was going to be the Betamax of the computer world. How wrong they were. I don't do much with computers – internet, emails and the usual things. I've just had PCs all the time, and they're fine.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I still do physical media – the downloading is really something we'll leave for the kids. I still like to hold something physical. The last DVD I bought was a collection of war films.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I don't think they are a good idea, no. None of them could ever be as good as Kryten. If I was ever going to have the wherewithal to employ a butler, it would have to be the human kind.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I think – this is where the luddite in me comes out – if you look at some of the things coming out, they're unnecessary, we end up facing permanently at a screen, which is why I fight against Twitter and Facebook. If anything, I think there should be a break in technological advance.I have no desire to be aided any other way in life.•Chris Barrie hosts Britain's Greatest Machines, series 2 of which is out now on DVD. Barrie also stars as Arnold Rimmer on TV's Red Dwarf
Stop all the tubes, cut off the API. Transport for London has had to stop its supply of data about the movements of Underground trains due to "overwhelming demand" from demonstrations of what can be done with that data such asHarry Metcalfe'sMatthew Somerville'smaths-and-magic live tube map. (If you try to go to that site now it just hangs.)The reason: after opening up the API, requests for data ballooned from 180,000 to 10m. Consequently, TfL found itself a bit underprepared.As the London Datastore - which has been the throughway for those API requests -notes,"Owing to overwhelming demand by apps that use the service, the London Underground feed has had to be temporarily suspended. We hope to restore the service as soon as possible but this may take some days. We will keep everyone informed of progress towards a resolution."Our understanding is that the London Datastore is now encouraging TfL to serve API requests directly, rather than proxied through the data store, because that will mean that TfL gets a clearer idea of who the customers and developers for its data actually are, and where they're based.In the comments to the blogpost, there are some useful suggestions for TfL about how to improve the service while easing the strain on its (well, the LDS's) servers: more partitioning of feeds with less data per feed, and more caching. Obvious to developers - not so obvious to an organisation which has lived its life functioning, as one developer described it to me, as "a black box that people pour money into and which then spits out travel".But for TfL, the lesson is clear: there's real, eager demand for its data via an API. There are people who have positive, helpful suggestions for how to improve its servicing. And it's being advised to hold those customers/developers closer, rather than at arm's length. It's going to be interesting to see how it progresses.Now, can we have the live tube map back please? Soon?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Children doing activities in the 1930s. Photo byJewish Historical Society of the Upper Midweston Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTwitter Hits 1000 Tweets per Second &gt;&gt; PR and the Social WebAnd more than 2 billion tweets in a month for the first time.Petimo: A cuddly social networking toy for kids &gt;&gt; SciTechStory"A child using Petimo for the first time is likely to be both intrigued and befuddled. It doesn't look like a computer that mom or dad use. It may look like some other electronic or computer based toys they may have had, but probably not. It will undoubtedly require explanation for its purpose (not necessarily by an adult). How long will it take before the child understands that this is a way to communicate with friends?" Possibly quite a while, from first impressions. Aimed at children aimed 6-10: we think they're aiming too low.Phorm Inc: Preliminary Results &gt;&gt; InvestegateHere's all you need to know: "Successful equity fund-raising of £15 million completed. Significant reduction in costs, with operating losses falling to $29.7 million (2008: $49.8 million)." Basically, despite everything, Phorm is still burning money at about $2.5m per month. On that basis, the cash injection will last to January..Guardian Activate 2010: live coverage &gt;&gt; Guardian.co.ukA stonking liveblog effort by Josh Halliday and Steve Busfield. Pity you couldn't make it. Or did you?Clegg crowdsourcing site crashes in heavy traffic &gt;&gt; Guardian.co.uk"Nick Clegg's new website aimed at gathering public suggestions for the repeal of oppressive laws repeatedly crashed today due to heavy traffic." Among the most-commented suggestions: the reintroduction of the death penalty. Not sure how one squares killing people with extending freedom and removal of bad laws. Not a great start to the day..."Your Freedom" is a failure. How to make it better &gt;&gt; qwghlm.co.uk...and then Chris Applegate takes its fundamental design philosophy apart. More thought needed.Academic reference management software for researchers &gt;&gt; MendeleyMentioned and re-mentioned at the Activate 2010 conference on Thursday, Mendeley describes itself as an "iTunes for science papers". Find out what.Exclusive: Conversation with Steve Jobs on the iPhone 4 antenna problems &gt;&gt; Boy Genius ReportIf that's really Steve Jobs on the end of that email address, he's got surprising patience with grumpy customers.Why a 27 character password is less secure than an 8 character one &gt;&gt; SecuriteamThat big Russian spy hack revealed... "The Russians obviously did not read my earlier posts on why longer passwords are often less secure than shorter ones. So they forced their agents to use a 27-character password which was easily retrieved by the FBI… since it was written on a piece of paper."Security Updates for Adobe Reader and Acrobat &gt;&gt; F-SecureFlash Player's hole got fixed early, but there's still been a hole in these lingering. Fix it now.National Archives and the Great Tour of Britain go live on OS OpenSpace &gt;&gt; Ordnance SurveyMapped onto Street View.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Google last night splashed out $700m (£460m) on a specialist aggregator of airline flight information, ITA Software, in a venture into travel data that is likely to set off competitive alarm bells among many online booking agencies such as Expedia, Orbitz and eBookers.Google announced that it was buying Massachusetts-based ITA in order to make it easier for users of its search functions to find quick information about convenient flights and airfares, describing the move as "pro-competitive" and "pro-consumer".Although largely unknown to the public, ITA is an important player, providing behind-the-scenes data on flight times, availability and prices to the travel industry. It occupies a niche between airlines and customer-facing travel agencies. The business was founded in 1996 by a group of scientists from Massachusetts Institute of Technology.Google's chief executive, Eric Schmidt, said: "Their technology opens exciting possibilities for us to create new ways for users to more easily find flight information online, and we're looking forward to welcoming them to Google."Google was quick to stress that it had no plans for a direct move into selling travel services to the public, saying it had "no plans to sell airline tickets to consumers". However, rumours of the deal earlier in the week were enough to spark alarm among travel bosses who fear that Google could wield too much power over access to crucial data.Such was the concern about a deal that one online travel agency, Kayak, reportedly approached ITA with an offer backed by Expedia to keep the business out of Google's hands. But as ITA was already in exclusive negotiations with Google, the discussions did not progress.Travel agencies are worried that Google could short-circuit them by simply offering ITA's flight data in its general search results. And they are concerned that they could find it harder to access rapidly changing information once ITA is under Google's ownership.Kayak's chief marketing officer, Robert Birge, said: "They have dominance on the general search side, When you couple that with ITA's airline relationships there is reason to be concerned."The deal is Google's largest acquisition since it agreed to purchase AdMob, a mobile phones ad platform, in November. Although a sizeable cash outlay, it is small in comparison to Google's $3.1bn purchase of online advertising firm DoubleClick in 2007 or of the video streaming website YouTube for $1.65bn in 2006.
Just in case you haven't seen this, film critic Roger Ebert has dipped back into the 'are video games art?' debate. In April he wrote a stinging blog post entitled,'video games can never be art', in which he spelled out his theories about the nature of interactive entertainment:One obvious difference between art and games is that you can win a game. It has rules, points, objectives, and an outcome. Santiago might cite a immersive game without points or rules, but I would say then it ceases to be a game and becomes a representation of a story, a novel, a play, dance, a film. Those are things you cannot win; you can only experience them.Having attracted over 4500 comments, mostly critical, Ebertreturned to the conundrum again today- this time with a slightly softened perspective:"My error in the first place was to think I could make a convincing argument on purely theoretical grounds. What I was saying is that video games could not in principle  be Art. That was a foolish position to take, particularly as it seemed to apply to the entire unseen future of games. This was pointed out to me maybe hundreds of times. How could I disagree? It is quite possible a game could someday be great Art."He's still not willing to play a game (even when offered a free PS3 and a copy of Flower), but he's willing to concede that one day a game may be art. Which is magnanimous.His views are interesting, not only because he's one of the most important pop culture critics in the world, but also because he is representative of the 'old guard', the generation that didn't grow with games and often find them puzzling. The obvious answer to the question 'are games art?' is 'does it matter?', but I think it does matter in this context. I don't believe Ebert's dismissal of gaming is purely down to the mechanics of interactivity - the argument that games can't be art because they allow the player to alter the narrative, that there is no single message for the viewer to interpret. I think in some ways, it's a method of belittling games, or at least their validity as cultural artefacts. It's perhaps about fear and misunderstanding.This paragraph is interesting:I had to be prepared to agree that gamers can have an experience that, for them, is Art. I don't know what they can learn about another human being that way, no matter how much they learn about Human Nature. I don't know if they can be inspired to transcend themselves. Perhaps they can. How can I say? I may be wrong. but if I'm not willing to play a video game to find that out, I should say so.Of course, games are actuallyall aboutthe transcendence of self; in no other form of entertainment can a viewer actively become the character, become an active and even creative part of the experience. The closest you get is to pick up an instrument and play a song. I would also say that games teach us a lot about human nature - especially our own nature. It is almost impossible to play The Sims or World of Warcraft or even a Modern Warfare deathmatch without learning something about yourself and other people.In the end, I think the whole games as art debate is becoming redundant. As the medium evolves, as new platforms and new experiences – from Facebook toFoursquare– take us away from consoles and into the age pf pervasive gaming, people will stop talking about games as a new form of art and start wondering if they're a new form of reality. It is a Cartesian shift in perception that will perhaps leave this generation of gamers as skeptical as Roger. But our children will get it.
In what might well be the first text-only game for the Xbox 360, indie developer Matthew Reynolds has created a basic but effective little piece of storytelling that brings to mind Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone's Fighting Fantasy books as much as the likes of The Hobbit and Adrian Mole Spectrum adaptations of the 80s.With simple white text on a black screen and minimal sound effects, Text Zedventure takes you into a city stricken by a mysterious virus that's turning the residents worryingly bloodthirsty. In three loosely interlinked chapters, you're presented with a number of options that may lead to escape or peril – and behind each option the story opens up in tantalising increments, meaning several plays through are required to get the full picture.There's a solid understanding of what makes adventure games work here – the story fills out pleasingly as you follow the breadcrumb trail of options, and the simple presentation fits extremely well with the grisly story – playing through the game is a surprisingly tense experience. However, improvements could be made; it's extremely brief, the prose is solid but unspectacular, and for some unknown reason it won't let you play while offline. But as a proof of concept its a resounding success. It'd be nice to see Reynolds expand on what he's achieved here – an ongoing series of Text Zedventures perhaps?
The Simpsons once had an episode which, in passing, showed newscaster Kent Brockman announcing "And now here is a list of celebrities that have been arrested", with a zip-fast list scrolling up the screen.So, rather in that vein, here are things that Steve Jobs has revealed via his email replies - an output system that ought to be making his PR people look to their laurels.First, Blu-ray: don't hold your breath. In fact, let your breath out, because Jobs, who in October 2008 called the Sony-controlled enhanced-DVD format "a bag of hurt" (quote: "Blu-ray is just a bag of hurt. It's great to watch the movies, but the licensing of the tech is so complex, we're waiting till things settle down and Blu-ray takes off in the marketplace."), is now suggesting that Blu-ray is just passé.Responding to a reader atMac Rumorswho asked him how soon Blu-ray drives (even for reading discs) would be coming to the Apple Mac, Jobs responded:"Bluray is looking more and more like one of the high end audio formats that appeared as the successor to the CD - like it will be beaten by Internet downloadable formats."Certainly it's true that Super Audio CD (SACD) and DVD-Audio died a thorough death, especially compared to MP3, despite offering higher quality audio.The reader, Siva, demurred: the medium-term benefits of Blu-ray, he pointed out, include being able to do high-density backups (you can get Blu-ray writers and discs for backup), plus the video is higher-quality than you can get online, and MP3 took off because of its lack of DRM. (He might have pointed out: the short-term benefits include watching Blu-ray films.) So come on, Steve, how about it?No moving Jobs:"No, free, instant gratification and convenience (likely in that order) is what made the downloadable formats take off. And the downloadable movie business is rapidly moving to free (Hulu) or rentals (iTunes) so storing purchased movies or TV shows is not an issue."I think you may be wrong - we may see a fast broad move to streamed free and rental content at sufficient quality (at least 720p) to win almost everyone over."The strange thing about Blu-ray and Apple is how completely mulish Apple is being about incorporating it. You can now get Blu-ray DVD playback on dozens of manufacturers' machines, because it's seen as a benefit. Not though for Apple owners, who can't even buy an add-on drive to read Blu-ray discs because the OS won't control them.And another Mac Rumors reader emailed Jobs earlier in the week about those "reception issues" with the iPhone 4. Jobs's response?"There are no reception issues. Stay tuned."Any more? Really he should have a Twitter account all of his own. Most of the replies could fit into 140 characters.Then again,bad things might happen.Oh, and since you wanted to know who was on the celebrities list,here it is. And to quote Kent: "Remember, if you see any celebrities, consider them dangerous."
If video game-related discussion 'forums' were to have a World Cup, Chatterbox would be Holland: brilliant, beautiful, but with a streak of psychological instability a mile wide. Last week saw discussions of Monster Hunter Tri, regional accents, injured pets and what happens when you bend down and growl at a dog that's expecting a ham sandwich. Frankly, you'll only get one, maybe two, of those on Neo-Gaf...So yes, welcome to another Best Of, a collection of moments from the Chatterbox canon, this week edited into 'shape' by Beardofbees, the Diego Maradona of chat management. Make of that comparison what you will. Take it away, Diego!Football: it's not coming home. Again.Well, there's a world cup on and, at least last week, England were competing (albeit in the loosest sense of the word). Initially, talk was dominated by England's poor performance against Algeria. "The cats were cowering under the spare bed by half time of Friday," said Sorbicol. "The wife was not impressed by my choice of language and I was utterly disgusted with the complete lack of effort and commitment by the team."Of course the Gamesblog is far from an English-only community, and the rest of the readership were also quick to join in with the jibes. Alimantado offered some critique from the valleys: "You poor wee moppets stinking up yet another tournament. At least the French are exploding with a little élan"; and from north of the border Riadsala asked "Can we not have somebody else represent the UK? … Even the Isle of Man would be an improvement."There was some talk on whether it was appropriate to boo and deride the team for their lacklustre game, Simian pointing out, "the fans have every right to express their dissatisfaction, and the only way to do that is to boo!" Lazybones also admitted to a little unpatriotic behaviour: "I did this, from the safety of the pub I was in. I like being part of a hooting, booing crowd. They did deserve to be booed. They are kind of at work, and booing is a verbal warning."eMTG stepped in at this point to coin a new piece of lingo. Speaking of the ex-skipper himself, he suggested: "He is so vile a human being that I hereby formally petition the box that forevermore if someone's behaviour is so bad or so selfish it makes your mind boggle, that person is referred to as a 'Terry'." We waited eagerly to see if this would be adopted.Of course, by Wednesday England had another match underway, this time thankfully pulling out a better performance. After a brief absence, Riadsala returned to the blog for the afternoon. "Sneaked away for a pint," he explained, "then England scored and I decided I'd be happier working."On Thursday morning, a victory for the England boys had been secured and a general spirit of deluded optimism was present, summed up nicely by herselfthemonkey: "I know I'm only a girl and therefore don't understand football but, given the OTT celebrations by press &amp; drunken fans alike, I thought England won the World Cup yesterday. Is this not the case?"(I hope someone broke it to herselfthemonkey gently - Keef)Monster Hunter TriThis Wii game has been winning hearts and minds on the Gamesblog. It's proving that the chatterbox likes its games challenging and unforgiving, an honour also shared by Demons Souls for the PS3, which also got its fair share of discussion. The difference between these games for the purposes of compiling a Best Of, however, is that Lazybones is playing Monster Hunter."I fought a big pink monster. I made him cry. Then I used what was left of the monster to make the character I'm playing a kind of pink hat. I didn't sleep until three ... ""If I'm awake then I hunt the monsters. If I sleep then the monsters usually hunt me.""Once the hat was on I felt appalled. Wearing this grotesque pink trophy on my head; my character's head ... I have since taken it off and put it in the box. Fit to be taken out only on special occasions; in a spirit of grim resolution."The infectious glee led to much piqued interest from the other bloggers. "The enthusiasm you have over Monster Hunter Tri", exclaimed Shawshank22, "really, really makes me wanna try it." EasilyLed was on hand with a warning, however: "I seemed to spend a long time wandering round doing nothing. A couple of times I had to hunt monsters which just ran away when I found them till I ran out of time. Once or twice I had to fight monsters which killed me so easily that I never felt I had a chance. Is this normal?"Yes, EasilyLed, that's normal(Actually, nothing about any of this is normal - Keef)AccentsWhere do the chatterboxers come from, and what do they sound like when, instead of typing comments, they're talking audible words out of their actual mouths? Inquiring minds wanted to know, and so a discussion on accents was kicked off.SandySleaze admitted to coming from Leicester, although expressed a note of hope with the sentiment that, "Living in Market Harborough may make me sound more middle class over time." Another welsh-born, but well travelled, blogger, BLC07, expressed sadness over his indistinct lilt: "To my dismay," he said, "I'm often mistaken for being English."Timthemonkey was quick to describe his fiancée and fellow blogger: "Herself still has a light Kentish toff lilt unless she's drinking when she becomes Keira Knightley's snobbier cousin." And SageSmith gave us both a perspective on the Manchester tongue and a glorious sign that eMTG had been successful: "My younger brother moved to Surrey ten years ago and now seems to possess a stronger Mancunian accent than he ever did when he lived in God's Own City. He sounds more like Liam Terry Gallagher every day."Lazybones also chimed in. "I'm not so sure what accent I have - I sometimes get told it's odd. Some people say it's kind of northern. It occasionally widens out to become like an accent from Birmingham. I have lived equally in Merseyside and the midlands, and London, I guess. I've got nothing interesting to say on the matter," he mused.Finally, the lack-of-self-awareness award went to Fantomex who posted the following comment whilst discussing another matter: "Bonzer result, what nick is it in?" followed just scant moments later with a wade into accent-blog with: "Despite being born and bred Romford/London, I often get asked if I'm Australian. I have no idea why."GlastonburyFirst-timer to the festival Makar was looking for advice—"Getting naked and covering your body with paintings of flowers and strutting around in front of the cameras is ok right?" — as well as a hook-up opportunity: "I'm about 5 foot 10, short brown hair, will be wearing a t-shirt. You can't miss me."RedDread was quick to offer his own suggestions for a good time: "Do not, under any circumstances, paint a 'hilarious' random word (Sausages, for instance) on a big banner and wave it near the stage. Or, indeed, anywhere. It will make you a Terry of unimaginable proportions," and several others spent a fruitful few hours making suggestions for items to bring along, only some of which contravened English statute.HereComesTreble was quick to poo-poo most of these, however: "In my day, all you needed to take to a festival was the clothes on your bag, a box of wine, a huge wad of cash (small bills), and a knife. Small enough to tape to the inside of your thigh, but big enough to kill a man."(and there's the Glastonbury spirit, summed up in one phrase - Keef)BloodBowlThis Games Workshop classic has seen much online play by the gamesbloggers recently, either using the licensed game of last year or other unofficial implementations available. The week saw a huge amount of posts on administration, match arrangement, setup and technical advice, and match reports. All of which were, by volume, worthy of brief acknowledgement — but too dull for anything more than that.TimesplittersKicked off by a comparison made with Bioshock 2, SageSmith asked of this PS2-era game, "Anyone know if there are any plans to rework this series? Would be immense fun online… I'd sell my gran for a copy of a new-gen version."As somebody who never played Timesplitters or its sequel, all that this humble author could do was try to build up a mental image of the game from the comments that were made:VictoriousCupid:"Nothing quite as scary as a whole team of gun-toting ducks coming after you"Umboros23:"The likes of Bullethell look to be doing a similar FPS with some new ideas. Not sure if it features a monkey."(You mean Bulletstorm, surely? Keef)Sagesmith:"It was all about the mummies."Amipal:"We used to set up a Bag Grab game with an all zombie team. Hilarious times punching off zombie head after zombie head."Gettingnervous:"I still have nightmares about falling snowmen."Timethemonkey:"The scream the gingerbread men emitted when you set them alight will haunt me until the day I die."In conclusion: I'm still not sure if this was a wind-up.Animal injuriesBegun by Sorbicol, whose cat had badly injured his leg whilst chasing a fly, there was a wave of sympathy and heartfelt concern for the critter—"Ah, poor little fella. Waking up half shaven is not fun," said SuperSmashIn, "…I know." And this was followed by a list of injured animals experienced by the 'boxers, most of which are far too gruesome to repeat. Typifying the horror, amipal fed back on one tale with: "That story is disturbing, even more disturbing than the evening I ran over a family of ducks," which should suffice to outline the general idea.Again, however, Lazybones came to the rescue by turning the discussion neatly around: "I once got attacked by a dog," he explained. "My own dog. I put my face next to its face and growled when it was plausibly expecting to be given a ham sandwich. It went nuts."More money than senseWith the launch of the iPhone 4, a discussion erupted on the mental state of the people forking out £600 for it on release day. Leaving this aside, it was the fringe conversation on outrageous spending that became interesting. In general consumerist bafflement, SageSmith asked "What quantity (number of bottles) of aftershave is it acceptable for a man to own before he exposes himself to the risk of being dubbed a softie" and Limni chanced the flush and wealthy mood with "Does anybody want to buy a mountain bike?"(This has just stopped even *trying* to make sense, hasn't it? Keef)Quotes of the Week"I was in a band once called 'Brad Hogg's Left-Arm Chinaman'. We were good. We were very good."We'll have to take HereComesTreble's word, of course."Does that mean we have 'Dwarf Terry Wizards'?"RobLindsay comes to terms with linguistic developments."I've dropped half my sandwich on the floor. I think I'm going to cry. :o("Herselfthemonkey has a bad day."Steven Seagal: He is too hard for the cinema, so he goes straight to DVD"CatZilla is a fan of everyone's favourite lawman and blues guitarist."I went to the Bhuddist centre of world peace and tranquillity (it's in Scotland!) and I got attacked by angry seagulls."SerenVikity grapples with an inconsistency of place and experience."Thanks for all your congratulations and best wishes for my new son yesterday. Slightly fewer thanks for the name suggestions - I think I'll pass on Wayne, Terry, Emile and even - though it was tempting – Fabio"Huge congratulations to Killerbee and the growing family.RegularsDon't forget that you can find information on everyone's gamer tags - and more! - at theChatterbox wikipage.And check outour inspiring Spotify list- especially the additions Keef made on a boozy Friday night a few weeks ago.Finally, make sure you're free on July 17 for the Official Gamesblog Meat-Up, taking place at the historic George Inn in London Town. More infohere.
You can't judge a book by its cover. Thankfully, you can often make up for the time you've spent laboriously judging a book by other means by instead judging video games by their covers – in fact, more often than not, just reading the title will suffice.This is why, when handed Transformers: War for Cybertron, large chunks of this review started writing itself in my head. "Ugly and derivative" ... "poor use of licence" ... "who the hell is Starscream anyway". Franchise-based action shooters rarely meet even the most basic expectations, and Transformers was unlikely to be an exception.As it happens, we're encouraged to actually play the games we're given to review and, without wanting to get too carried away, I was pretty pleased to find something that didn't make me want to "transform" my game disc into a small pile of broken polycarbonate plastic within five minutes.War for Cybertron is a co-op based third-person shooter in which you control Decepticon and then Autobot forces as they battle for control of their planet. It's a prequel set thousands of years before the movies, so thankfully there's no Shia LaBeouf (although I suppose an appearance by Megan Fox wouldn't have gone amiss).To tackle my immediate assumptions: ugly and derivative – well, is it? The graphics, and particularly the cutscenes, are consistently impressive, and occasionally gorgeous. And while blasting robot aliens in space may not be the most original video game premise ever (actually, if you consider when Space Invaders was released it may well be the least original premise ever) there are enough inventive touches to make the game feel pretty fresh.Clicking the left analogue stick "transforms" your character into one of an array of vehicles (with the fighter jet proving particularly fun), a function that works itself seamlessly into gameplay. Speeding high off a ramp, turning back into humanoid-shape in mid-air, and taking out a group of enemies with a rocket cannon as you sail over them is just about as fun as it sounds.The more run-of-the-mill running and gunning is immediately evocative of Gears of War – though without the cover mechanic – and even this basic element of gameplay is pretty fun and satisfying. Most importantly, charging around as a huge robot with a turret mounted on your arm feels, somehow, completely authentic – no mean feat, and something developer High Moon Studios can be proud of.Poor use of a licence? Hardly. Somewhat wasted on someone whose childhood was solely devoted to Star Wars, the attention to detail here is fantastic. The story has been approved as a legitimate part of the Transformers canon and, if you have spent the past 25 years wondering what happened during the civil war on Cybertron, here's your chance to find out. All the familiar characters are here, and you'll even have the pleasure of hearing the original voice of Optimus Prime, Peter Cullen, barking commands and rebukes at you as you make your way through the game.This is anything but the standard, lazy licensed release we've got so used to. It not only feels like a completely authentic slice of the universe in which its based, but would be a pretty good game even if it were some nondescript bunch of robots shooting lasers on some other mechanised planet.Sadly, there are just a few too many problems with War for Cybertron for me to recommend it too strongly for anyone that isn't a fan of the series. For starters it's a co-op based game and, surprise surprise, when you're not online you'll often get frustrated with your teammates' patchy AI.There's also a disappointing monotony to the level and enemy design. Once you've run through your first corridor, blasted some Autobots and pressed a button to go up a lift you've experienced most of what the game has to offer. As a result, the campaign mode does become a bit of a chore after the first few stages.A novel, Horde-like multiplayer mode and a raft of weapons and power-ups to try out means there is longevity here, but perhaps only for Transformers afficionados (who must add an extra star to this review). For the rest of us, this is simply a fun and well-executed title that gets boring just a little to quickly. Which is much more than I expected of it.
Finns now have the legal right to broadband access, as alaw passed in Octobercomes into force today. Under the law, telecomms providers are obliged to offer always-on high-speed internet connections to all of the country's 5.3 million citizens, with a minimum speed of at least 1 megabit per second.It makes an interesting contrast with the UK – whereNick Clegg's announcement of the "Your Freedom" project, aiming to repeal laws seen as onerous or unnecessary came with a new website where people can suggest laws that they want repealed. Basically, a bonfire of the inanities.And one of thefirst laws that got put up there by annoyed citizens as a candidate for repeal? TheDigital Economy Act,passed in the "wash-up" periodat the fag-end of the last Parliament, opposed then by the Liberal Democrats (in particular Don Foster) and the occasion for his first-ever revolt by Labour MP and former Cabinet Office minister Tom Watson.Indeed, Clegg himselfcalled during the election for the DEA to be repealed. Can't see his name in the comments. Yet.The contrast between Finland and the UK could not be more stark. Where Finland is treating broadband as being essential to its infrastructure, the DEA offers the potential for strictures where people could, in theory, be cut off if they are judged to have broken copyright law. (The Labour government insisted that this would only happen in the most extreme of cases, and there is no mention in the Act of any "three strikes" methodology, but the threat still remains. It's just a question of process.)Finland, of course, has good reason to want to make sure that all its citizens can get broadband. They're not solely about high-tech. It's also because Finland has some incredibly rural areas, as well as its cities. And it gets extremely cold in winter, which means that it's preferable to stay where you are than to travel long distances to work, if your work can be done via a computer.Partly for that reason, Finland is already one of the world's most connected countries, with 96% of citizens online - but in October the communications minister, Suvi Linden, said that the mandate was necessary in order to improve the availability of internet in Finland's remote rural areas. In an announcement in September, Ms Linden committed to making 100Mb internet access - one hundred times faster than the connections mandated under the current law - available to all Finnish residents by 2015.In the UK, the government is aiming at 2Mbps for 99% of the population by 2012 - but there's no law to back it. Jeremy Hunt, the secretary of state at the Department of Culture, Media and Sport, declared early in June that hewants the UK to have the best superfast broadband network in Europe: "We are now ranked 33rd in the world when it comes to broadband speed, with an average that is nearly five times slower than South Korea", he said. "Within this parliament we want Britain to have the best superfast broadband network in Europe."Unfortunately we're miles behind in that race, and without any legal force to make telecomms companies provide that sort of connectivity, and no clear subsidy to encourage them to connect the rural areas (which are most expensive to wire, and produce the lowest return, because you have few customers far apart, compared to cities where you have many customers close together) it looks like we're going to continue to lag.Even so, we can be hopeful about the DEA. It would be interesting if the Lib Dem arm of the coalition manages to get the DEA repealed. As sheredom, who suggested it for the bonfire, pointed out, the reasons for killing it are:"1.  Misguided bill that will not combat the issues that it claims to. Puts unnecessary strain on ISPs that do not wish to enforce the law; 2. To stand up to these lobby groups and say 'No, we are not going to do things because big business tells us to.'"
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
