8.04pmBSTSo long, and thanks for all the fishWe&apos;re done here: we&apos;ll have further analysis as it&apos;s needed. In the meantime, thanks for (nearly) all the comments, and we&apos;ll see you next time.8.03pmBSTAnd the reaction is..That these phones are pricey. Here are the UK off-contract prices:iPhone 4S (you know, from 2 years ago): 8GB model available for £349.iPhone 5C: £469 (£390.83 ex VAT) for the 16GB model and £549 (£457.50 ex VAT) for the 32GB model.iPhone 5S: £549 (£457.50 ex VAT) for the 16GB model and £629 (£524.17 ex VAT) for the 32GB model and £709 (£590.83 ex VAT) for the 64GB model.That. Is. Pricey. Apple clearly hasn&apos;t had the memo about the top end of the smartphone market getting squeezed. Or perhaps it is counting on the shock of the new for the 5C to draw in new buyers, and the must-have idea of the fingerprint sensing on the 5S to get people to go to the top end.It will really have to rely on the fingerprint sensing being a compelling feature (which, in fairness, it probably will be: securing your smartphone is essential, and this is a good solution to unlocking it). One odd thing - people who use their phones as a work device probably won&apos;t be able to benefit, because the mobile device management (MDM) systems have to work across all sorts of devices - so they generally just impose a passcode. Fingerprint sensors won&apos;t apply. (Though you&apos;ll still be able to use it to buy stuff.)7.42pmBSTIf you're wondering on the fingerprints: stored on device onlySince this is the topic of some discussion, here&apos;s Apple&apos;s comment on fingerprint storage in the 5S: &quot;All fingerprint information is encrypted and stored securely in the Secure Enclave inside the A7 chip on the iPhone 5s; it’s never stored on Apple servers or backed up to iCloud.&quot;(Unsurprising that Apple would have thought of that after all the NSA rows over Prism etc over the summer.)7.30pmBSTA bit more on those camera pixels...To those with a passing knowledge of pixels and screen resolution, Phil Schiller&apos;s statement that &quot;bigger pixels make better pictures&quot; might have seemed a bit odd.But he&apos;s absolutely right. When it comes to cameras, the larger the physical pixels on the image sensor the more light they can detect per pixel. HTC with its “Ultrapixels”, and now Apple, have moved to physically larger pixels without increasing the pixel counts of their latest smartphone cameras.In essence, this has two effects on the images captured by a smartphone camera. The low-light performance of the camera is vastly improved because more light can make its way through the lens onto each pixel, in effect increasing its sensitivity. The result is a picture that is brighter, with better colour saturation and less grain compared to cameras with smaller pixels.However, the downside is that in bright light, the lower pixel count necessitated by the increased individual pixel size can produce a potentially less detailed, less sharp and smaller image compared to standard camera sensors.7.20pmBSTAnalyst reaction: bigger, simplerIan Fogg of IHS: &quot;Apple dramatically expands the addressable market for the iPhone with new operator deals in China and Japan, plus keener 5C pricing&quot;Francisco Jeronimo of IDC: &quot;Apple brings biometrics to a new level, from a corporate environment to the consumers&apos; hands.. A much better camera in the new iPhone was needed as competitors have improved significantly in the last year&quot;.Benedict Evans of Enders Analysis: &quot;So, nothing of real substance was saved from the leaks, except the price, which is evolutionary.&quot;Updatedat 7.22pm BST7.15pmBSTSo to round up..While Elvis plays us out with (What&apos;s So Funny About) Peace, Love and Understanding..-Apple hasn&apos;t dumped all the old iPhones: the 4S lives on, while the 5 introduced last year is already for the chop. (Like the iPod mini being killed in favour of the iPod nano after 18 months.)- it hasn&apos;t priced the 5C to chase the midrange prepay market outside the US. That will work fine inside the US, but it leaves the question open of whether the &quot;new&quot; will draw buyers in the way that it needs to so that it can keep developers from shifting to Android-first.- no iWatch, no Mac Pro, no iPads, no Apple TV. The Mac Pro is one of the most-delayed products ever (pre-announced in June; still unseen).7.11pmBSTTo play us out....It&apos;s .. it&apos;s... it&apos;s...Elvis Costello! (Suggestions for tracks, please.)7.10pmBSTCook: we don't pack in feature after featureCook is recapping... &quot;our most forward-thinking technologies&quot;. (Odd phrase.)Ad time - showing people using the &quot;cheaper&quot; 5C. There must have been lots of actors signed up to the most incredible non-disclosure agreements to do these. &quot;For the colourful&quot;. (And the younger, vivacious, it looks like.)No sign of the iWatch; no sign of the Mac Pro; no sign of... oh wait. &quot;I&apos;d like to return to music for a moment. Music is deeply embedded in our DNA. We do really love music..&quot; Ah, it&apos;s not &quot;one more thing&quot;, it&apos;s &quot;one more artist&quot;.7.08pmBSTAnd on fingerprinting...&quot;It&apos;s never stored on Apple servers or backed up to the iCloud. That&apos;s great news.&quot;It&apos;s certainly interesting in the context ofsurveillance. Expectmuchmore on this.7.07pmBSTiOS 7.. what is there next..?Schiller is back on, we&apos;ve been hearing about the iPhone 5S &quot;our most forward-thinking phone yet&quot;. Must be the reveal for the price... &quot;16GB for $199.. 32GB for $299... 64GB for $399.&quot; Those are post-contract prices, for the US. This is a super-top-end phone.And leather cases too. (Seriously? Cases?)&quot;So now you&apos;ve seen our two new phone lines.&quot;Oh, and the iPhone 4S is going to be kept on - &quot;free&quot; in the US.Pre-orders start on 13 September,on sale 20 Septemberin the US, UK and other othersincluding China.In Japan with NTT DoCoMo. No mention of China Mobile - which would be the difference betweenkaboom!andmmmmOKay.7.01pmBSTiPhone 5S: security: fingerprint sensingSchiller is setting up the security story. &quot;A passcode.. some people find it too cumbersome. In our research about half of smartphone customers do not set up a passcode on their device, and they really, really should.&quot;Touch ID: &quot;uses a key you have wherever you go. Your fingerprint. It reads your fingerprint.. Touch ID capacitative sensor. 500ppi resolution. 170 microns thin. Scans sub-epidermal skin layers. 360-degree readability.&quot;&quot;And they put it right into the home button.. it now includes the Touch ID sensor in a ring around it. It knows that you&apos;re there.&quot; A sapphire lens over the top.&quot;Touch ID has been built deeply into iOS 7. You can simply touch the home button to unlock your phone.&quot;And can also use it for purchases.... from Apple online accounts.(The query, though, is how long the fingerprint sensor will last. But if it has a sapphire lens over the top, then it should be &quot;at least as long as your phone contract lasts.&quot;)And - that&apos;s another supply chain leak that&apos;s been accurate. Though putting it together with the acquisition last year of Authentec, the fingerprint recognition specialist, made it pretty obvious.Also: works with any finger; and in any orientation. That&apos;s useful.Updatedat 7.45pm BST6.56pmBSTiPhone 5S battery life10 hours 3G talk, 10 hours LTE browsing, 10 hours of video. Let&apos;s get that in.6.55pmBSTiPhone 5S: &quot;burst mode&quot;Can take 10 frames per second while you hold down. Oh - this is the same as we&apos;ve seen with many other cameras. &quot;If every time you did this you had to sort the photos... that would be boring.&quot; Instead it presents what it thinks will be the favourite from the camera roll. (Smart, but it brings it up to the others.)And next feature: Slo-Mo. (Again - forecast in leaks.) &quot;Capturing HD video at 720p at 120 frames per second.. all these are simply in service of taking a great picture.&quot;(Apple gets that taking a picture should be about just capturing the moment, not figuring out which of a dozen settings you want to have.)6.50pmBSTiPhone 5S: camera&quot;Most of us just want to take a picture,&quot; Schiller says - a dig at Samsung&apos;s tons of options which quickly overwhelm you.f2.2, 15% larger sensor area. &quot;Our competitors would stack more on there to get a number on the spec sheet.&quot; He says &quot;bigger pixels = better picture.&quot; (Really?)&quot;The new software in iOS 7 has been designed to take advantage of the new image sensor.&quot; Automatically does auto white balance, exposure, dynamic local tone map (for highlights and shadows), autofocuson and picks sharpest one of multiple photos &quot;unbeknownst to you&quot;.And &quot;True Tone Flash&quot; - which allows for ambient light. &quot;Whatever colour your flash is it&apos;s going to clash with the colours.&quot; And a dual-LED, as predicted.(So far, the supply chain leaks have all been absolutely spot-on; only the price and the silicone cases for the iPhone 5C hadn&apos;t leaked.)Phil Schiller talks about the camera in the new iPhone 5S. Photograph: Stephen Lam/ReutersUpdatedat 7.33pm BST6.46pmBSTiPhone 5S: M7 motion co-processorIt continuously measures motion data. And with new software and applications &quot;you&apos;ll get a whole new level of fitness apps.&quot; Also: &quot;optimisations based on contextual awareness. Identifies user movement.&quot;This is Apple prodding into the health space (Tim Cook is reckoned to be a fitness enthusiast). Worked with Nike to produce a new app telling you what you&apos;ve done and where and how far you&apos;ve gone.(Is that Fitbit kicked to the kerb?6.43pmBST....games demo...(this bit is...kinda hard to describe in words. Um, a dragon. Sword. Lots of detail. Noisy. Fire. Ooh, sky. OK, finished.)6.40pmBSTiPhone 5S: increased... everything?Schiller is making much of increased graphics performance. &quot;Increased 56x since the first iPhone, half of that coming today with the iPhone 5S.&quot;If you wonder... what difference is having 64-bit going to make? Schiller&apos;s response is to get Epic Games up to show off something processor-intensive. Oh, Infinity Blade, which feels like a game that&apos;s basically designed to be shown off at iPhone launches - rather like tha bakeoffs that Schiller and Steve Jobs used to run, back when it was all Macs and Photoshop.6.38pmBSTiPhone 5S: diamond-cut chamfered edges&quot;It is the gold standard in smartphones.&quot; 3 metal finishes: &quot;silver, gold and &quot;space grey&quot;. (Wait, not champagne? We&apos;re going to call it champagne.)Performance... used to mean graphics cards and fans. Now consumers want great performance that fits in the palm of their hands.A7 chip - 64-bit - &quot;the first-ever in a phone of any kind.. the PC world took years to go from 32 bit to 64 bit. We&apos;re going to do it in one day, with hardware, and all-new applications.&quot;&quot;A 64-bit desktop-class architecture. Over a billion transistors. 2 floating point registers. iOS 7 has been reengineered for 64-bit as well.&quot; (They kept that quiet.) &quot;All built-in apps re-engineered. This is seamless for customers.&quot;(On this basis, some people will be carrying 64-bit phones before some people have upgraded from 32-bit PCs running Windows XP.)Phil Schiller with the new iPhone 5S. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesUpdatedat 7.24pm BST6.35pmBSTAnd now: iPhone 5S&quot;The most forward-thinking phone we&apos;ve ever created, perhaps that anyone has ever made. Packed with incredible technologies in service of using these in the way we want to.&quot;Video.... of magma? The slow reveal on this one. Dual flash on the back. Ah, yes, there&apos;s the &quot;champagne&quot; colour.6.31pmBSTiPhone 5C: more specsSupports more LTE bands &quot;than any other smartphone in the world&quot;. Bluetooth 4.0.(So the question now, is, what is the price going to be? If this is the low end, what is the high end?)&quot;A price of just $99.&quot; Translated from the American, that&apos;sabout $550outside the US on prepay.Quick analysis:So Apple isn&apos;t chasing the low end of the market. Or, really, even the middle range. How, then, is this going to drive sales? It might work in the US, but won&apos;t - unless the &quot;new&quot; and the &quot;colour&quot; works together to get people to buy them.In pricing terms, this will cost about what the iPhone 4S was costing last week. Except it&apos;s new. So Apple will appear to be at the lower end - but it&apos;s really not mixing it with the midrange Android phones.That said, it&apos;ll probably sell by the gazillion. Remember, Cosmo magazine is here: cheaper, colourful andnewphones will have big appeal.6.27pmBSTiPhone 5C construction&quot;As close as you look you won&apos;t see seams or part lines. Vibrant icons, translucency, it creates an entire experience of colour. And it doesn&apos;t stop with the phone design.&quot; And cases too, made of silicon. With cutouts. Which you can combine &quot;to create exactly the look that you want.&quot;&quot;It&apos;s made of a hard-coated polycarbonate&quot; (isn&apos;t thatplastic, mommy?) .Spec time! 4in retina display. Widescreen video. A6 chip. Higher capacity battery than in the iPhone 5. 8 megapixel iSight camera. 3x zoom.Phil Schiller with the new iPhone 5C. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesUpdatedat 7.22pm BST6.24pmBSTiPhone 5C&quot;Made with all the incredible technology that customers have loved with the iPhone 5.. more colourful than any iPhone we&apos;ve made yet. A few of you may have seen some shots on the web.. and that&apos;s cool.. but you haven&apos;t really seen it yet.&quot;Video - showing lime green, strawberry pink, sky blue, lemon yellow, white - phones. &quot;This is iPhone 5C.&quot;6.23pmBST'Let's talk about iPhone..'Onwards to the iPhone. &apos;iPhone 5 took our business to an entirely new level.. in the past we&apos;ve lowered the price of the old iPhone, making it accessible to a new group of people. This year we&apos;re not going to do that. The business has become so large that this year we&apos;re going to replace the iPhone 5 and replace it with not one but two new designs. This allows us to serve new customers.&quot;Phil Schiller, head of marketing, comes on. Now we&apos;re into the meat of the presentation.6.21pmBSTiWork, iPhoto, iMovie on iOS will be freeKeynote and Pages and Numbers (Apple&apos;s version of PowerPoint, Word, and Excel)... plus iPhone and iMovie: &quot;a really key advance for customers&apos; productivity.. no other platform has any apps like these.&quot;&quot;Todaywe&apos;re announcing that we&apos;re making all five of these industry-leading apps free.&quot; That&apos;s quite a move - Apple staking a claim to content creation. (It also showed a web-enabled iWork in June, so this is a key move.)6.17pmBSTiOS 7: photos, AirDrop; iOS 7 on 18 SeptemberThe new photos display organises them by date (year/month/event) - which is a lot better than the old &quot;wall of photos&quot; format.&quot;AirDrop&quot; - lets you send photos to other people really easily.Music app - iTunes Radio, which will let you create new stations or work from a single track. Federighi is a Rush fan. Well, we all have our faults.&quot;Over 200 features.. and our developer community has been hugely inspired.. you&apos;ll see many more coming into the App Store.&quot;Federighi says &quot;it&apos;s like getting a whole new device.&quot; It will beavailable for free from 18 September. iPhone 4 and later, iPad 2 and later.Updatedat 6.17pm BST6.13pmBSTiOS 7 walkthrough: commuting, app updates, Safari, Siri, soundsFederighi pointing out that there&apos;s a &quot;commute help&quot; - when you tell it where you live and where you work, it will warn you about commute times. (That&apos;s a stab at Google Now.)Apps can be updated in the background.Safari web browser comes on a sort of rolodex, multiple screens.Siri is &quot;massively improved&quot;. He shows &quot;What&apos;s Lady Gaga saying?&quot; and it searches on Twitter. (This didn&apos;t look like a live demo tbh. Or else it was super-ultra-fast.)Ah, and new phone ring sounds. They&apos;ve all been redone, it seems. &quot;We&apos;ve improved the system alert sounds as well.&quot; All more sci-fi like - to me, they sound a bit Android-y.Craig Federighi presents the iOS 7. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesUpdatedat 7.16pm BST6.09pmBSTiOS 7&quot;We&apos;ve been hard at work on iOS 7.. and next month we will ship the 700 millionth iOS device.. and since we make updates easily and available to as many customers as possible.. iOS 7 will quickly become the world&apos;s most popular operating system.&quot;Gauntlet thrown there, Mr Android and Mr Windows 8. Craig Federighi (head of software) comes on to show off iOS 7.6.04pmBSTTim Cook is up and looking relaxed&quot;Great to see everyone, thanks for joining us. Special welcome for those joining us in Beijing and Berlin and Tokyo.&quot;Excited about things, but first - updates.iTunes Festival. (Big music festival. In its 7th year.) Lady Gaga, Justin Timberlake... all in London. Wow - 20 million people applied for tickets. &quot;It&apos;s like an opening weekend for a product!&quot; Laughs from the audience..(Cook is looking more relaxed than he has in previous presentations. In the past he&apos;s come across a trifle stiff. So far he&apos;s seemed more at ease.)6.03pmBSTWhat do you think the iPhones will be like?You know what we&apos;re expecting the iPhone 5S and iPhone 5C to be like, but what about you, our readers? What are you expecting the next chapter in Apple&apos;s iPhone to be like?The iPhone 5C: no one really knows what it looks like but Apple reckons it will make you happy. Photograph: AppleMaiers takes a slightly cynical approach, which we&apos;re not too far from agreeing with, at least in the sales numbers.Maiers10 September 2013 10:25amiphone 5C : Samsung build quality, Apple's operating system.A marriage made in hell.It will sell gazillions.Fwoggie&apos;s probably pretty near the mark with his views. If Apple doesn&apos;t improve the battery life and at least attempt to fix its ghastly maps, we&apos;ll be very surprised.Fwoggie10 September 2013 10:30amThis comment has been chosen by Guardian staff because it contributes to the debateThe good:Better battery lifeThe bad:A new maps app (give it up, Google's better, just license that)The ugly:That gold covered case.Stephenjpc&apos;s obviously not a fan of Sir Ive with his unique brand of minimalism and seeming obsession with colourful, flat design. Something tells us Sir Ive wouldn&apos;t need to work again if he really got the boot from Apple.Stephenjpc10 September 2013 11:06amJony Ive to get his P45The patent wars are far from over, and you can almost guarantee the lawyers will be all over the next few competing phones, Jill O&apos;Sullivan. It&apos;s certainly a good time to be a patent attorney, that&apos;s for sure.Jill O'Sullivan10 September 2013 11:11amjust like the Galaxy S4 and and thus another 2 years of ligation between the 2Revolutionary has never looked so evolutionary, according to Chinaski75 at least.Chinaski7510 September 2013 11:12am5s - It will be exactly the same design as the current one, maybe slightly thinner yet there will still be a video from Johnny Ive claiming they have gone back to the drawing board and completely redesigned it from scratch!5c - It won't be made of plastic, it will be made of a material exactly like plastic but with a cooler sounding name, that Apple have just invented!6.01pmBSTCNN has spotted...... Yahoo chief executive Marissa Meyer in the audience.Apple event about to start. Spotted in the audience:@marissamayerof Yahoo.http://t.co/x0dCX7sHOQ&mdash; CNN Breaking News (@cnnbrk)September 10, 20136.01pmBSTAnd we're off....The lights fade and &quot;Out of My League&quot; by Fitz and the Tantrums (thanks, Shazam) fades down. It&apos;s time to kill some rumours.5.57pmBSTJack Dorsey at Cupertino? And what are &quot;beacons&quot;?ApparentlyJack Dorsey is at the Cupertino end of the show. Hmm, is that for payments integration? Paypal showed off a fascinating ad on Mondaycalled Beaconwhich seems to rely on Bluetooth for mobile payments. How does this all fit together, and is Apple&apos;s newAirDrop(which uses Wi-Fi and Bluetooth for a peer-to-peer item sharing system) part of it?There&apos;s no expectation of NFC in the new iPhones - so if Apple has some sort of mobile payment solution that uses Bluetooth, things could get very interesting. Pretty much every phone has Bluetooth now.5.49pmBSTAnd a reminder: if you ask people what they want.....they usually get it wrong. Here&apos;s theresults of a poll of Japanese consumers from 2007about &quot;what they wanted from their next phone&quot; .Most popular item? Memory card (342/1000). And a full browser? only wanted by 69/1000. Rather trumped by &quot;nothing in particular&quot; (331/1000). If you went by consumer polling like that, you&apos;d build something likeHomer Simpson&apos;s car, for mobiles.5.38pmBSTWhere is the new Mac Pro?The new Apple Mac ProPotentially with the iWatch in tow, and of course with the iPhone 5S and iPhone 5C headlining, will Apple have some more details on the Mac Pro too?Having shown off the divisive new Mac Pro “dustbin” design at WWDC in June, details of the new professional Mac have been scarce leaving OS X-using video producers in limbo with ageing hardware. Will Apple finally announce a release date and full details of its true processing power and keep professionals on-board?5.37pmBSTIn Berlin... and Cosmo is here!That&apos;s Cosmopolitan magazine, which has sent its deputy features editor over to see what&apos;s happening. (They&apos;re beefing up their gadgets coverage, apparently.) And what would they think if the rumours are correct, and the next iPhones come in multiple colours? &quot;That would be really popular,&quot; we&apos;re told. So perhaps Apple is going to take the same tack as it did with the iPod mini (which was available in multiple colours, and was a huge hit with women). Of course, colours will then look like a completely obvious thing to do. The challenge is always handling how many of each colour to produce. You don&apos;t want to be left with people demanding strawberry red when you&apos;ve got a few thousand lime green out the back..Update:seems Heat magazine is here too. Phew. (thanks@Boydhilton.)Updatedat 5.51pm BST5.36pmBSTWhat the iPhone won't do...... go all &apos;Inspector Gadget&apos;.5.09pmBSTIs it even ethical to buy a new iPhone from Apple?A worker walks in front of an Apple retail shop under construction in Shanghai, China. Photograph: Eugene Hoshiko/APThere’s no doubt millions of people will want Apple’s next iPhone, but should they be thinking more about how their mobile phone is produced, rather than how new and shiny it is?Apple is promising that its first low-cost iPhone will &quot;brighten everyone&apos;s day&quot;. But reports about conditions at the factories subcontracted to make Apple products jar with the upbeat image. Workers making the handset&apos;s cases are being asked to stand for 12-hour shifts, with just two 30-minute breaks, six days a week, investigators for the non-profit organisation China Labor Watch have found.It’s not just Apple, however, as almost all major mobile phone manufacturers like Samsung, Sony, Nokia and HTC use similar factories, with poor working conditions for workers. Does a much smaller crowd-funded model provide a viable alternative?A Dutch company calledFairphonehas had some success in crowd-funding what it believes will be the first entirely ethical smartphone. After securing 14,537 pre-orders for its €325 phones, which customers have paid for upfront, Fairphone will go into production in time for Christmas.Fairphone will carry out regular audits to ensure the legal limit of 60 hours per week per worker is respected. It has also set up a fund to top up pay so that employees receive not just a minimum wage, but a living wage.Of course, that doesn’t take into account the environmental impact of producing a mobile device, but it’s a start.4.47pmBSTWill Apple also unveil the highly anticipated iWatch today?Apple iWatch: designers are already predicting what the new gadget will look like. Photograph: Yrving Torreabla for the GuardianToday’s announcement promises two new iPhones, but perhaps the fabled iWatch might be Tim Cook’s “one more thing”?Rumours and reports were rampant about three months ago, circling around Apple producing asmartwatch. Competitors certainly took note, as bothSamsung and Qualcommlaunched their own smartwatches in Berlin just last week at the IFA electronics trade show.However, the rumours have since died down, and there have been no part leaks from Apple’s supposed production lines, unlike the the iPhone 5S and iPhone 5C.Does that mean that Apple’s entry into the smartwatch arena isn’t ready for primetime yet? Or has Apple’s once-legendary secrecy managed to keep the iWatch largely under wraps?Watch out for one on Tim Cook’s wrist later today.Updatedat 4.49pm BST4.26pmBSTMore on iOS 7: iOS Support MatrixIf you&apos;re wondering precisely which models of what iOS product will run iOS 7, can we introduce you to theiOS Support Matrix, which isn&apos;t from Apple but instead comes from the folks at Empirical Magic. (It&apos;s even available as an app.)So now you can grind your teeth in frustration, or go &quot;yay!&quot;, depending on how keen you are to have iOS 7. How keenareyou to have iOS 7? Let us know.4.25pmBSTiOS 7: Flat, colourful and a complete changeJony Ive&apos;s redesign of Apple&apos;s mobile operating system marks the biggest change to date.iOS 7 will be available for older iPhones too.Older iPhones, including at least the iPhone 4S and iPhone 5 should be able to download the new, colourful and flat iOS 7 soon after the event today.Ive's iOS 7 brings enhancements to Siri and others.Users who update to the latest Apple mobile operating system will benefit from enhancements to Siri, Apple&apos;s digital voice-activated personal assistant, as well as the camera app, and a new interface for its Safari web browser.iOS 7 brings a flat design with surpsing depth.Apple&apos;s new flat design brings with it a parallax visual effect, which subtly moves the background around as you tilt the phone. The effect makes the flat app icons appear to float above the background, producing a pseudo-3D effect.iTunes Radio and Airplay.iTunes Radio is set to debut on the iPhone with the iOS 7 update, as well as a feature called AirDrop, which lets users send files from their computers to their phones over a Wi-Fi network.Updatedat 4.27pm BST4.25pmBSTWhat the news sites say...• Reuters: The 5C is all aboutemerging markets. Charles Arthur also explained how the launch is beingscreened in Chinaa few hours after California/Berlin (owing to the time difference) - a significant indication of what this launch represents for Apple.• The Telegraph points to more leaked pictures which appear toconfirm fingerprint security.• TheIndependentpicks up those rumours of bigger screens, though we think those are prototypes being planned for a later model rather than the phones being released today.•Daily Mailsays the iPhone is heading for an iFlop (well done that sub!) because Samsung overtook as the most profitable mobile company, Apple is losing market share and the rumours are &quot;boring&quot;.•ABCsays Walmart is pre-empting the launch with its smartphone trade-in scheme.• Metro: nice pic of thegoldiPhone 5S and a natty headline about known knowns, known unknowns, and unknown unknowns. Thank you,Rumsfeld.4.20pmBSTiOS 7?iOS 7 is the software that will power the new phones - but also run on old ones, back to the iPhone 4 (sorry, 3GS owners) and iPad 2 (sorry, original iPad owners). Applepreviewed it in Junebut hasn&apos;t announced a release date.A question from Twitter on iOS 7 availability: today, or &quot;are we going to have to wait&quot;? If this is anything like the past two (or even three) years, then it will go &quot;Gold Master&quot; (ie publicly usable) today, probably with a few tweaks and fixes from the previous beta. But it won&apos;t actually be available for download and installation for a couple of weeks - typically, a day or two before the phones themselves go on sale.Recall that two years ago the release of iOS 5caused a huge traffic spike. Will iOS 7 do the same? Hard to say, but last year seemed to pass without the same problem.@charlesarthurIs iOS 7 expected to be available from today or are we going to have to wait?&mdash; Citizen Sane (@citizen_sane)September 10, 20134.01pmBSTBad day to bury bad Blackberry newsBlackberry (remember them?) has laid off around 60 people from its sales team in Canada.Cantechgot the story early on and our telecoms correspondent Juliette Garside has confirmed that these are US-facing roles and that no UK staff are affected. Blackberry&apos;s statement to us:“We are moving a small number of US-focused sales roles that were based in Canada to the US to be more closely aligned with our customers. As previously stated, we are in the second phase of our transformation plan. As part of this transformation, BlackBerry will continually evaluate its organization – from top to bottom – to ensure we have the right people, with the right skills in the right locations to drive new opportunities in mobile computing.”3.44pmBST'New media is the most annoying'Lee Clow, the ad man behind Apple&apos;s &apos;Think different&apos; campaign, told the Guardian&apos;s John Plunkett the social media means that brands are interrupting consumers to try and get them to buy without a more meaningful message or relationship.3.37pmBSTHey, Apple! Loosen upDan Gillmorwrote today that he doesn&apos;t care what Apple launches because he left the ecosystem long ago, infuriated by the control-freakedness of the whole thing.Needless to say, my scenario has almost no chance of becoming reality. Sad to say, control-freakery is a growing part of the overall tech and communications industry, as companies centralize power and become partners with government spies in the process. But out at the edges, where some customers still value their liberty, the discontent with this behavior is growing.Apple CEO Tim Cook has, if nothing else, demonstrated an ability to be a pragmatist. Surprises are a common theme of Apple keynotes. I&apos;d be thrilled beyond belief if Cook would spring this surprise Cook on the world, someday soon.3.25pmBSTWhat’s Apple going to play today?Will Apple get lucky again?iTunes Radio is live in the current iOS 7 beta that’s with testers around the world at the moment, andreports have come inthat Apple’s changed the featured stations to “Spin the Globe”, Trending on Twitter, iTunes Top 100: Pop and Pulse #Now.Take from that what you will for what that means for the music for today’s event. At least it&apos;s an indication that Apple’s looking to polish iTunes Radio before its big debut when iOS 7 becomes publicly available.What track do you think Apple&apos;s going to play at the beginning of its keynote in Cupertino, California today?2.56pmBSTIs it time to do the iPhone swap?The iPhone 5 is soon to be replaced as Apple's flagship phone. Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesThe iPhone 5 is going to start looking a lot more old and tired by this evening, which might be why EE’s just launched its mobile phone trade-in scheme.Anyone at least six months into an Orange or T-mobile contract can upgrade to a 4G EE plan by simply returning their phone and paying a one-off fee starting at £49, depending on your choice of 4G plan. EE’s Pippa Dunn said:With smartphone innovation moving at a relentless pace, we realise that some customers want to move to the latest handset at the earliest possible opportunity. That’s why we’ve introduced Swap to sit alongside our existing upgrade offers – providing a new, simple and easily affordable option for pay monthly customers to move to the latest 4G smartphones.If you’re looking to upgrade to the iPhone 5S or iPhone 5C, should Apple pull another hit out of the bag, and you’re an EE customer not already on 4G, EE’s Swap service could prove the cheapest way to upgrade.2.52pmBSTWhat you're saying,  down thereIn-between the recommendations for Android handsets (more on that soon!), below the line you&apos;ve been asking each other what the &apos;i&apos; in iPhone stands for.KingEricNo7asked if it was true that &apos;i&apos; stood for &apos;interim&apos;, marking Steve Jobs&apos; return to Apple in 1996 (it was actually 1997). Nope, saidRaptou- it stands for &apos;internet&apos;.Steve Jobs rejoins Apple in 1997The &apos;s&apos; of Samsung&apos;s S4 stands for &apos;superior to the iPhone&apos;,infinitedistractiontells us. Presumably the &apos;z&apos; in BlackBerry&apos;s Z10 just stood for zzzzzzz.......Also an excellent point fromivantal, soon to be much explored. (The point, not ivantal. Or maybe both?)Given Apples location tracking issues not so long ago and the alleged relationship between tech companies and the NSA why would anyone want to store their finger prints on an i device?Lastlylondonscot, who said they&apos;d be interested if there was a Nano-sized iPhone. I (Jemima, this is) couldn&apos;t agree more. There&apos;s certainly a use-case for a screen-less, audio input-only phone once Siri (and indeed Google&apos;s speech recognition) works on all (relevant) apps. And I&apos;m not talking about speaking into your watch. Oh no...Updatedat 2.57pm BST2.38pmBSTIsn't Apple a marketing company already?Apple is looking to expand its advertising assault, with asignificant recruitment drivefor its internal marketing teams.Ramping up capabilities represents a necessary shift in direction for Apple, which under the late Steve Jobs &quot;was fairly strict about the headcount in that group,&quot; said the executive, who asked not to be named. &quot;The group didn&apos;t grow proportionally to the company as it went through astronomical growth, and that was partly because Steve wanted Apple to be seen as a products company, not a marketing company.&quot;Given Apple’s extremely polished adverts and brand image (and what with Steve Jobs being arguably the world&apos;s greatest marketer ever and all) you could be forgiven for thinking Apple was already a marketing company...2.30pmBSTApple store down...The Apple Store is currently offline, which normally means Apple&apos;s adding new products to its store and site, unless it&apos;s suddenly had to do some impromptu maintenance, that is.The Apple Store is down. Photograph: Samuel GibbsUpdatedat 2.31pm BST2.24pmBSTPolice, and fingerprintingExpect acres of analysis of this post-announcement, but what really are the implications for fingerprint security?Apple’s fingerprint sensor raises some questions. If you use it, will the cops be able to force you to thumb-unlock your device?&mdash; Brian Fung (@b_fung)September 10, 20132.20pmBSTiOS6 on 92% of iPhonesJust one year in, 92% of Apple iPhones are running iOS 6 in North America, with iOS 5 trailing at just 5%, according toChitika Insights’ web traffic analysis.Apple’s iOS 7 brings radical changes in the appearance of the mobile operating system, and some iDevice owners have voiced their discontent at the design alterations.That being said, if Chitika Insights’ data is anything to go by, most of us will be running iOS 7 on our iPhones and iPads this time next year.That’s certainly one way to keep fragmentation to a minimum.Updatedat 2.36pm BST2.05pmBSTAbout that fingerprint security...As Apple is allegedly “confirmed” to be about to include a fingerprint sensor in the iPhone for the first time, we’ve put together aquick rundown of what you need to knowabout your finger and its powers to identify you.A type of image capture system specialised for quickly capturing and storing the imprint of your finger will be embedded below a swipe panel – in this case possibly below the home button on theiPhone5S – which the user runs their finger over. The sensor captures the image and software analyses it for the skin indentation pattern on your fingertip, comparing it to a set of pre-stored data and verifying your identity.According to a recent patent filed by Apple in Europe, the sensor will implement an RF sensing system that will not only accurately capture the ridges of your finger, but also image the live skin below the surface of your fingertip to prevent spoofing of the system with a Mission Impossible-style fake fingerprint.Meanwhile, a supposed piece of the quick-start guidehas leaked for the iPhone 5S, and it looks like Apple will call its finger-scanning home button ring the &apos;Touch ID&apos;.Hopefully users will be able to finally do away with pesky pins and iTunes passwords.UK Border fingerprint scanner. Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesUpdatedat 2.26pm BST1.52pmBSTIT'S ANOTHER iPHONE. WITH AN 'S' AFTER ITWell, it was good enough for Spandau Ballet (that was a band in the eighties, Samuel) but the upgrade to the 5 - the 5S - will come in a subtle gold hue. A champagne, if you like.More on that inSamuel&apos;s rumour round up.Now that we&apos;ve just about got over the excitementOF AN S!AND A C!...we can stop shouting.Updatedat 2.32pm BST1.47pmBSTIT'S AN iPHONE. WITH A 'C' AFTER ITThat&apos;s the rumour. One phone at a slightly cheaper price, in bright colours.This piece by Samuel Gibbswill tell you as much as we know, until 6pm (or 10am, west coast)...Updatedat 2.10pm BST1.25pmBSTSilly video alertApple is very good at building up expectation, but we all know the power of a montage...Updatedat 2.36pm BST1.14pmBSTIt&apos;s a phone. It&apos;s got an &apos;i&apos; in front of it. And it&apos;s new.It&apos;s - iPhone launch day!The Apple-consuming world is eagerly anticipating a first tonight, with chief executive Tim Cook expected to reveal not just one but two new handsets.iPhone 5S, we assume, will be faster, feature a better camera, a new gold-ish option and - the exciting bit - possibly new Minority Report-esque finger-print access. We think £530 ($830 equivalent, though the phone on contract would be less).TheiPhone 5Cis a new departure entirely - Apple&apos;s first not-exactly-budget-but-a-bit-cheaper phone at £350-£450 ($550-$700), but in the tried and tested jelly-bean blue, red, yellow, green and white (if a jelly bean white is indeed possible) tough plastic casing.That&apos;s what we expect - but what will Apple deliver?The keynote kicks off in California, streamed to a sister event in Berlin, at 6pm BST (10am PST). We&apos;ll be here until then and beyond, sharing every rumour nugget, insightful news line and weighty analysis we can muster.Get the popcorn in, and hang about with me, Jemima, here for the afternoon, with more from Samuel Gibbs (our new tech reporter, starting on a quiet week!) and then Charles Arthur - live from Berlin - later today.Updatedat 2.28pm BST
Can I buy the new iPhone with a clear conscience?In the leap from drawing board to circuit board, Apple's sleek, polished designs undergo many processes that the company cannot fully control. With colourful cases and a friendly price, Apple is promising that its first low-cost iPhone will "brighten everyone's day". But reports about conditions at the factories subcontracted to make Apple products jar with the upbeat image. Workers making the handset's cases are being asked to stand for 12-hour shifts, with just two 30-minute breaks, six days a week, investigators for the non-profit organisation China Labor Watch have found. The factory is owned by American contract manufacturer Jabil Circuit, which along with Apple has sent experts to investigate.Hasn't Apple already promised to improve practices at factories?Targeted more than any other consumer electronics company over the treatment of its workers, Apple has arguably done more than any of its rivals to tackle the problem. It has been publishingaudits of its suppliersfor the past seven years, and is now working with independent campaigner the Fair Labor Association to inspect facilities.Suppliers that employ children can have their contracts terminated. Last year, Apple cut off a Chinese circuit board producer found to be employing 74 children under the age of 16. It also reported a local labour agency that had falsified records to make children appear older than they were, and the business had its license suspended and was fined by local authorities.Children found to be illegally employed at Apple factories must be handed back to their families. Suppliers must also provide money to compensate for their lost earnings, and further funds for their education.Apple has set a maximum of 60 hours of overtime per week at its factories, and its audits have shown 92% compliance. Apple carried out 393 audits at facilities covering 1.5 million workers for its last annual supplier responsibility report.It also has initiatives against bonded labour, forbids mandatory pregnancy tests, and works to prevent Chinese students being coerced into factory work in order to graduate from further education courses.What about the materials?Factory conditions are not the only ethical minefield when it comes to smartphones. Most of the world's known supply of Coltan, a metallic ore used to manufacture the circuitry found in most electronic gadgets, comes from the Democratic Republic of Congo. National parks have been destroyed to mine it, and proceeds from sales of the mineral have been used to fund bribes and illegal militia.Apple is committed to using conflict-free minerals. It asks suppliers to confirm their smelter sources, and is working to identify trusted smelters which source conflict-free minerals.Are Apple's products environmentally friendly?Like any other large manufacturer, Apple's carbon footprint is yeti sized. In 2012, it was responsible for almost 31m tons of greenhouse gas emissions. Better design and planning have reduced emissions per dollar of Apple revenue by 22% since 2008. Its data centres run on 100% renewable energy.Are there any ethical alternatives to the iPhone?The reality is that Apple products can be traced back to the same mineral mines, parts makers and assembly plants as most other smartphone brands. Nokia, Amazon, Sony and Samsung have all been customers of Foxconn, where the conditions under which the iPhone was being produced were first exposed. Conditions at the factories used by Apple in China will be similar to those used by other brands.A Dutch company calledFairphonehas had some success in crowd-funding what it believes will be the first entirely ethical smartphone. After securing 14,537 pre-orders for its €325 phones, which customers have paid for upfront, Fairphone will go into production in time for Christmas. Based on Google's Android operating system, it looks similar to a Samsung Galaxy handset, and prototypes will be on show at a pop-up shop in London's Soho from 18 September.Each bag of tin and coltan used to make a Fairphone will be labelled and tracked on its journey to the smelter. The phones themselves will, however, be made in China, at a factory owned by Chang Hong, which makes TVs and smartphones for the Chinese market. Fairphone will carry out regular audits to ensure the legal limit of 60 hours per week per worker is respected. It has also set up a fund to top up pay so that employees receive not just a minimum wage, but a living wage. However, Fairphone admits that with its small order of 25,000 phones, it cannot dictate worker conditions at a factory it does not own.One way around the problem is to bring production to countries where workers are treated more fairly. The Moto X smartphone, the first Motorola handset entirely designed and produced since its acquisition by Google, is largely assembled at a plant in Texas. Its parts and materials are sourced from all over the world, but like Apple, Motorola is identifying ethical smelters for tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold. While Google cannot make a cast iron claim to be producing entirely ethical phones, by bringing manufacturing home, to a plant that it owns, it can do more to improve working conditions than the small armies of auditors scanning factory floors in Shenzhen.
Reports from factory production lines and leaked parts indicate thatApple is about to put a fingerprint sensor into its next-generation flagship iPhone 5S. But what exactly can a fingerprint sensor do for the average consumer?What does it do?A fingerprint reader or sensor does what it says on the tin – it scans your fingerprint and matches it to a pre-defined image of your finger. Since every fingerprint is unique, the system can then securely verify your identity.How does it do it?A type of image capture system specialised for quickly capturing and storing the imprint of your finger will be embedded below a swipe panel – in this case possibly below the home button on the iPhone 5S – which the user runs their finger over. The sensor captures the image and software analyses it for the skin indentation pattern on your fingertip, comparing it to a set of pre-stored data and verifying your identity.According to a recent patent filed by Apple in Europe, the sensor will implement an RF sensing system that will not only accurately capture the ridges of your finger, but also image the live skin below the surface of your fingertip to prevent spoofing of the system with a Mission Impossible-style fake fingerprint.What will it enable?Potentially, fingerprint readers could sound the death knell for passwords. The multi-character password is a failing piece of security, given that pretty much any password can be cracked by high-powered computers these days, regardless of how long or complex it is. Two-factor authentication, where another piece of the security puzzle, such as a secret code or key, is used to strengthen simple password logins is currently the best system on offer to consumers.In theory, fingerprint scanners could allow users to completely remove the need for passwords, securely logging into their phones, and enabling higher security functions, which would be particularly useful for online banking and shopping without the need for two-factor authentication.A built-in fingerprint scanner could also make the iPhone more amenable to big business for security reasons, although in reality, according to Matthew Finnie, CTO at Interoute, the owner operator of Europe's largest cloud services platform, "the smartphone is now intrinsic to how people work, so it's time for businesses to change"."Rather than focusing on the security merits and nuances of the devices, attention should shift to how businesses should secure and control corporate data and make relevant parts securely accessible from anything, anywhere."Will it really work?Fingerprint scanners in the past have been a bit hit and miss. The technology, although relatively established in industry and enterprise settings, has never really been available to the mass market consumer or on anything other than secure laptops. That's generally because it has been a frustrating experience for the end user.If Apple manages to make the process of secure login via an in-built fingerprint sensor a smooth and seamless experience, it could revolutionise the way consumers use their phones and bring about faster, more secure platforms for developers to expand upon.However, there have been rumours that the sensor Apple is expected to build into its next iPhone flagship has a limited use lifetime. For example, a rumoured 500-scan limit "could be used up in only six months, based on users accessing multiple accounts three times a day.  This would render the scanner useless for the remainder of a typical mobile phone contract, potentially 18 months," according to research by David Webber, managing director of Intelligent Environment, a specialist in the financial security field. If a consumer keeps their smartphone for two years, as is the length of many mobile phone contracts currently, there is a possibility that the fingerprint sensor could fail, or cease to work leaving users stranded without access to secure logins for their phone, banking or shopping.What alternatives are there?Biometric authentication, where a unique part of your body's function is used to verify your identity, is a growing field. Many different factors can be used to securely identify the consumer. Iris scanners were once hailed as the holy grail of identification, but the technology required to scan an iris accurately is both expensive and often bulky – not something suitable for phones yet. Recently the unique rhythm of individual heartbeats has been pushed forward as another tool in the biometric armoury, with a bracelet such as theNymithat monitors your pulse on your wrist, which would offer a much more realistic and consumer-friendly entry into biometric security.
Dyson is suing Samsung Electronics over claims that the South Korean company "ripped off" its vacuum cleaner technology.The British engineering company, which also pioneered "blade" hand dryers, has accused Samsung of copying its technology in the steering system on its latest vacuum cleaner.Dyson said Samsung's Motion Sync vacuum cleaner used technology found in two Dyson appliances, the DC37 and DC39, which have been on the market for two years."This looks like a cynical rip-off by the&nbsp;giant Korean company&nbsp;Samsung," said company founder, Sir James Dyson. "Although they are copying Dyson's patented technology, their machine is not the same. Samsung has many patent lawyers so I find it hard not to believe that this is a deliberate or utterly reckless infringement of our patent." Samsung dismissed the claims as "groundless".Dyson launched proceedings in the high court at the end of August."We have been forced to issue proceedings in the English high court, but I would much rather invest in research to develop new technology than have to sue," said Dyson.Dyson has taken out a patent on "a cleaning appliance with a steering mechanism" and claims that its invention makes  vacuum cleaners easier to manoeuvre around furniture and less likely to topple over.Samsung'smarketing boaststhat its Motion Sync design "enables exceptionally smooth and easy movement". A Samsung spokesperson said: "The Samsung Motion Sync is an outcome of our own extensive research and development."We will take all necessary measures, including legal actions, to protect our technological innovation against Dyson's groundless claims"Dyson holds 3,000 patents and has been fiercely protective of its technology. In 2012, itaccused German rival Bosch of planting a spy in its research lab– claims that the company denied. Dyson has also taken a tough line against Chinese firms and challenged Chinese-owned Vax over the appearance of a product that Dyson felt looked similar to Dyson's DC02 cleaner. In 2011, Dyson warned the Chinese government that itrisked being expelled from the World Trade Organisation(WTO) over copyright breaches including rip-offs of his inventions.&nbsp;Samsung is also no stranger to the courtroom, and has been fighting a series ofpatent disputes with Appleover smartphones and tablet computers.
The key stat is right there in the headline: seven in ten people who've reached the last level of wildly-popular mobile gameCandy Crush Sagahaven't spent any money on in-app purchases.This may come as a surprise. Hardcore gamers (and a fair few developers) often attack King's puzzler as the epitome of dreadful, money-sucking freemium gaming, exploiting people too stupid to realise they're being exploited.It's gaming snobbery of the worst kind, and not because Candy Crush doesn't sometimes feel over-aggressive in the way its difficulty curve nudges players towards in-app purchases – it sometimes does – but because it's based on a view of casual gamers as little more than lab rats, tapping buy-buttons when commanded rather than seeking "proper" games elsewhere.As a player, I ducked out of Candy Crush Saga when I hit my personal ceiling of fun versus payment. As a journalist, though, I feel like defending the game against its fiercer critics, who seem to think its players are incapable of making similar decisions."70% of the people on the last level haven't paid anything. It's designed so you can complete the game," says Tommy Palm, whose official job title is "Games Guru" at King, although his role is more akin to a head of global studios for the social and mobile games publisher."We focus internally a lot on the player experience, making sure it's really fun to play. And we do not differentiate between people who pay and people who don't: we just see them as players, and optimise in making sure the game is really fun. So far, that's been a great strategy for us."Quite. Candy Crush Saga is currently being played 700m times a day on mobile devices alone. Palm declines to give an active-users figure, but analytics siteAppDataclaims that the game currently has 132.4m unique monthly players across web and mobile – a figure that only includes people who've connected the game to Facebook.Estimates vary on how much money Candy Crush Saga is making: Le Parisien recently claimed the game'sdaily revenues were €470k(around $623k), while ThinkGamingpegs them at $850k.Whatever the number, app store top-grossing charts show it's one of the three most lucrative mobile games in the world right now – alongside Puzzle &amp; Dragons and Clash of Clans – and has been since shortly after its iOS release in November 2012.King has made the most of the game's success. The company now claims 100m daily active users (DAUs) across all its web and mobile games – the latter include Bubble Witch Saga and Pet Rescue Saga, with Papa Pear Saga following soon.In April, King also claimed that it had overtaken Zynga, the reigning giant of social gaming, for DAUs of its games. Based on the latest 100m DAUs figure, that lead has since stretched considerably: in the second quarter of this year,Zynga reported 39m DAUs.Tommy Palm says PC, iOS and Android remain King's focus for nowWhy, then, has Candy Crush Saga become so big? Palm doesn't have a big secret to reveal, perhaps unsurprisingly. "The theme is very good, everybody can relate to the candy pieces: it's very positive and makes for very colourful and nice shapes," he says."Then of course there is the accessibility of the entire game: it's a cross-platform game you can play on computer then continue from your smartphone and you tablet. The game is free to play, of course, and there is the social aspect of seeing how your friends are doing."You could say the same about a growing number of mobile games, but none of them are as big as Candy Crush Saga, so there's clearly something else going on here – even if it's just a perfect storm of luck and fortuitous timing akin to the one that fuelled Angry Birds' sharp rise in early 2010.He also suggests that Candy Crush Saga was a better experience on smartphones than King's previous game Bubble Witch Saga, which was another factor in its rise."Bubble Witch Saga was a huge success on Facebook, and it was also popular on mobile, but not as big as it could be, and part of that was that it plays great on iPads with larger screens, but you kinda had to squint on smartphones," says Palm."Candy Crush Saga fits really well on smartphones as well as tablets, and I think most of our players really appreciate that you can get these games for your smartphone too."More stats? Palm says that more than 90% of Candy Crush Saga players are older than 21, and the split is roughly 50/50 between men and women.King itself now has 550 staff, up from 150 when he joined the company in March 2012. Palm says that the publisher is recruiting aggressively as it expands, but that it's also trying to ensure its teams better reflect the mainstream audience its games are being played by."In the Swedish office we have more women working there than many other IT companies in Sweden, but there's an industry-wide problem getting enough women. We want as mixed an environment as possible," he says.Palm adds that he's teaching his own young daughters to use the Scratch educational programming language, although (unsurprisingly) he'd like to see more mobile features for it.Papa Pear Saga is the next King game to go mobile (Facebook version shown)What about King's future, though? The company's publishing pipeline is now established: launch lots of games on the King.com website, take a selection of them to Facebook with the 'Saga' suffix attached, and then port the most popular titles on to mobile.King updates Candy Crush Saga with new content regularly, but if mobile players get bored, they can move on to Pet Rescue Saga or (soon) Papa Pear Saga. It seems a sound theory, but it's one with considerable risks.Not so long ago, Zynga's FarmVille and the "Ville" suffix looked just as dominant in the social gaming world, but its lustre has since waned, and under a new CEO,Zynga is now trying to reboot its strategy.I wonder if one problem with Zynga was that FarmVille ended up being more about compulsion than fun for too many players, and once they kicked the habit, they didn't want another Ville game. Setting snobbery aside, if Candy Crush Saga's critics are right, King could face similar problems by putting all its eggs in the Saga basket.Palm, naturally, says King is keen not to rest on its laurels. "As a games company, we need to keep it fresh and keep innovating. Games are all about new concepts," he says."We still have this great way of working where with small teams of 2-3 people we can try new things and fail fast, rather than the traditional model of very big projects that can run for several years."What kind of projects are on the way from King, then? Palm points to the 150+ games on King.com as proof that the company has more strings to its bow than just puzzle-matching games, but says it knows its audience."Our core focus is definitely on casual social games, but we want to keep on experimenting and pushing the envelope," he says. For now, King's focus will also remain on PC (including Facebook) and mobile – specifically iOS and Android in the latter case."We want to take games to where the players are, and right now, the players are on PCs, Android and iOS," says Palm, although he admits to keeping a keen eye on other platforms and devices."The living room is still a very interesting space, and it doesn't feel that winners have been decided there yet. I'm very keen to see what's going to happen, and if it's going to be the traditional players or some new actors," he says.Candy Crush Saga for Xbox One or PlayStation 4? Don't hold your breath, even if the announcement this week (and since this interview was conducted) ofSony's PlayStation Vita TVset-top box hints at potential for publishers like King.Consoles and dedicated handhelds aren't on the radar for now, though, perhaps to the relief of the game snobs. "The numbers are not there yet for a company like us," says Palm.
Apple breaks with its own convention onTuesday, with what is expected to be the launch of two new iPhones - breaking from its tradition of a solitary current-generation iPhone model.One is likely to be a cheaper model called the iPhone 5C, but the latest premium model, the iPhone 5S, is rumoured to come in multiple colours, with high-end specifications and possibly even a fingerprint reader.Here's a quick rundown of the major predictions before the event, at 1800 BST on Tuesday.• ReadApple's iPhone 5C - what to expect.Almost certainly trueApple's next flagship phone will be called the iPhone 5SAs with the iPhone 5C, mobile phone operator leakshave indicated that Apple is maintaining its current iPhone naming scheme, sticking with the solitary number and variations to denote upgraded iPhone models. Given that the alternative iPhone is highly likely to be called the iPhone 5C, the 5S moniker could be another differentiator for Apple's next flagship phone.The iPhone 5S will be available in more coloursEver since the iPhone 3G launched, in 2008, Apple has offered its smartphones in two colours, black and white. Recent part leaks from Apple's manufacturing partners in China have indicated that Apple will launch the iPhone 5S in more colours including a gold, or "champagne", model, which could make sense in terms ofApple's attempt to secure market share in Asia.Apple will upgrade the camera in the iPhone 5SIt is highly probable, given the competition from the likes of the Samsung Galaxy S4, with its 13-megapixel camera, that Apple will improve the current 8MP camera from the iPhone 5 to at least 13 megapixels.The iPhone 5S will have almost exactly the same design as the iPhone 5Apple has a history of redesigning the look of its flagship phone only every other generation, improving the specifications and inner components without altering the case design on the outside significantly. Both part leaks and previous actions suggest that Apple will stay true to form and release the iPhone 5S with improved insides while maintaining the iPhone 5's design with subtle tweaks.Slightly more speculativeApple will build a fingerprint reader into the iPhone 5SRecent rumourshave it that Apple may build a fingerprint reader  into the iPhone 5S, possibly under the traditional home button, to boost the iPhone's security credentials. In theory, such an addition could allow password-free access into the phone with a quick swipe of a finger across the home button at the bottom of the phone; it would tie in with Apple'spurchase of AuthenTec, a company that specialised in fingerprint sensors.Most unlikelyThe iPhone 5S could support near-field communication (NFC) technologyApple has steadfastly avoided putting near-field communication in its mobile devices to date, instead preferring on-screen barcode systems such as Apple's PassBook. So rumours that Apple could build NFC chips into the iPhone 5S are unlikely to be fulfilled, based on the company's past actions.Apple could equip the iPhone 5S with wireless chargingWireless charging has come along way in recent years, to becoming more mainstream. Many phone manufacturers, including Nokia and Samsung, provide wireless charging capabilities for their flagship phones, either built directly into the body or via additional cases or accessories. Apple could build in wireless charging support into the iPhone 5S, although this is highly unlikely, given its strict control of the lucrative authorised accessories market.The next flagship Apple iPhone could sport a 6in screenRecent reports  suggest Apple isexperimenting with large-screened phones, typically referred to as phablets. While Apple may be working on larger phones, it is highly unlikely that this would change the screen format of the iPhone 5S, especially at this late stage.With a falling share price and speculation that the Apple has lost its innovative edge, the iPhone 5S needs to be another stellar seller to answer the calls from Wall Street and silence the naysayers in the wider media.• ReadApple's iPhone 5C - what to expect.
We rank the speculation ahead of Apple's secretive event onTuesday.• ReadThe new Apple iPhone 5S: what to expectAlmost certainly trueA second current iPhone is comingGiven all the part leaks, rumours, and supply chain noises -- including aChina Labor Watch worker's diary(PDF) that specifically mentioned an iPhone's plastic back cover - it's almost certain that Apple actually is going to launch two new iPhones tomorrow, breaking from the tradition of just one current iPhone at any one time.One of Apple's new phones will be called the iPhone 5CA large volume of reports, combined with leaked packaging, and even mobilenetwork operator leakshave combined to provide convincing evidence that the name of one of Apple's new phones will be the iPhone 5C. What that 'C' actually stands for - whether colour, cheap, or China - is not clear.The iPhone 5C will be colourful and plastic backedApple recently expanded the colour options for its iPod touch line, and has been offering colour variants of the rest of its iPod line for a couple of years, but has refrained from doing so for the iPhone. Since its inception, the iPhone has always been limited to just black and white. However,various leaksfrom production lines in China seem to suggest that Apple is going to break with tradition and offer the iPhone 5C with a myriad of coloured plastic backs -- something that's supported by the suggestive Apple event invite that beckoned people to see something that "should brighten everyone's day" with a colourful logo.It will have a 4-inch screenVarious credible leaks suggest the iPhone 5C will have the same size screen as the iPhone 5 and its awaited replacement. Given that one of the biggest strengths of Apple's app ecosystem relies upon the lack hardware and software fragmentation, keeping the 4-inch screen would allow Apple to maintain the status quo within its App Store for developers - an important part of maintaining the iOS-first advantage reaped by Apple from the majority of app developersThe iPhone 5C will run iOS 7Apple showed off the next iteration of its mobile operating system at its Worldwide Developer's Conference in June.iOS 7marks a change of guard at Apple, with Sir Jony Ive taking over the reigns of the software interface to match up with his role as head hardware designer. In another effort to avoid fragmentation, and provide the feeling of "brand new" to a potentially cheaper model, the iPhone 5C will almost certainly come running the colourful iOS 7.Slightly more speculativeThe iPhone 5C will have recycled parts from the iPhone 4SRumours and speculation have pointed to the recycling of internal parts for the iPhone 5C including the Apple A5 processor and the 8-megapixel camera from the now-aging iPhone 4S, put into a new colourful shell. Apple has set precedent for doing this with the iPad mini last year, essentially taking the chips from an iPad 2 and packaging them into a smaller, 7.9-inch-screened frame.It will be cheaperThe expectation is that the iPhone 5C will be offered at a cheaper price, somewhere in the region of £350 to £440, as a differentiator to Apple's flagship iPhone 5S. Reports have indicated a cheaper iPhone will be launched in China, in an effort to capture the large market opportunity China Mobile's enormous subscriber base provides.The iPhone 5C will be available to buy in-store on September 20th or 27thCourier industry sources talking to theTelegraphhave apparently indicated that two different deliveries will be made to Apple's retail stores in the UK this month. Both September 20th and 27th have been suggested, which could mean that the iPhone 5C will be released at a slightly later date to the the next flagship iPhone, or that a third device will see an announcement tomorrow. In the US, holiday Apple Store employee holiday blackouts indicate that the new iPhones will be on sale on September 20th.The cheaper phone will have reduced features compared to the iPhone 5S flagshipInformed speculation suggests that to maintain a premium divide for the iPhone flagship, the iPhone 5C will come with a slightly reduced feature set compared to its more expensive sibling. These could include missing out on improvements to Siri, Apple's voice-activated digital assistant, or camera software enhancements.Most unlikelyThe iPhone 5C will be a China-only modelCoupled to the rumours of a cheaper iPhone launch for the Chinese market, a speculation indicates that Apple's iPhone 5C could be a China-only model, and that the "C" stands for China. Despite the large subscriber base available in China, and the unique position dictated by its mobile spectrum and 3G networks, it is highly unlikely that Apple would launch a China-only phone, unless it was a modification of a pre-existing handset.Whether or not Apple's expected iPhone 5C matches up to the leaks ahead of its unveiling, Apple sits at a crossroads at which it needs another home run. Whether the iPhone 5C is it, is uncertain.• ReadThe new Apple iPhone 5S: what to expect
Twitter's latest acquisition is its biggest to date, paying around $350m in stock for the mobile advertising startup MoPub.AllThingsD compared the deal to Google's DoubleClick buy, because it will give the service a tool to track advertising inventory, offering third parties a way to manage their ads in advance and bid for their campaigns in real time.The purchase potentially puts Twitter ahead of Facebook in the ad technology game, as Facebook has been attempting to create something very similar with its Facebook Exchange – an integral part of the social network's profitability outlook.MoPub's technology sits directly on the intersection between mobile platforms and data-driven advertising, making it a perfect match for Twitter and its often mobile-first and rapidly evolving consumer base.Twitter stated in a blog postthat the acquisition will not change its existing advertising strategy, and that it will "maintain the same high quality standards that define our platform today"."Our approach is to show an ad when we think it will be useful or interesting to a user, and that isn't changing."The acquisition should help Twitter maintain the profitability drive that its sponsored or "promoted tweets" started in 2010, before being brought to its mobile apps on the iPhone and Android in 2012.
UK top 20 video games chartPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Saints Row IV (18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (34)32 (–)Rome: Total War II (16+)PC (100)13 (–)Diablo III (16+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (41)PC (1)54 (2)Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Blacklist (18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (35)PC (2)Wii U (1)35 (4)Disney Infinity (7+)Xbox 360 (40)Wii (28)PS3 (22)Wii U (7)36 (5)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition (7+)Xbox 360 (100)117 (9)Payday 2 (18+)Xbox 360 (84)PS3 (16)48 (–)Killzone: Mercenary (18+)VITA (100)19 (6)Rayman Legends (7+)Xbox 360 (31)Wii U (30)PS3 (25)VITA (14)210 (–)Farming Simulator 2013 (3+)Xbox 360 (68)PS3 (30)PC (1)111 (3)Final Fantasy XIV: A Realm Reborn (16+)PS3 (58)PC (41)212 (15)Lego The Lord Of The Rings (12+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (18)Wii (16)3DS (9)3113 (12)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes (7+)Xbox 360 (41)Wii (18)PS3 (18)3DS (11)6114 (10)Fifa 13 (3+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (32)VITA (10)Wii (5)5015 (8)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II (18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (39)PC (1)Wii U (1)4216 (11)Animal Crossing: New Leaf (3+)3DS (100)1317 (14)Max Payne 3 (18+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (50)PC (0)2418 (13)The Last Of Us (18+)PS3 (100)1319 (7)Madden NFL 25 (3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)220 (16)Tomb Raider (18+)PS3 (49)Xbox 360 (45)PC (3)27UKIEGames Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Apple are launching two new phones today - the top end iPhone 5S, and the cheaper iPhone 5C, the company's first foray into the mid-range smartphone market.Rumours as to the features of the iPhone 5Sin particular abound. It is likely to be available in multiple colours, with an improved camera. The more outlandish predictions hint at an inbuilt fingerprint reader.What do you expect of the latest iPhone? And what features would you like to see?Share your predictions and ideas in our open thread.
Phil Collins, Ray Liotta, Billy Jean... it can only be the game that many fans nostalgically think of as the best title in the GTA series: Vice City. Here, Dan Dawkins, co-host ofGTA V O'Clock, selects his favourite moments from the day-glo, eighties-embracing masterpiece. Please do share your own most treasured memories in the comments section and we'll add them to the reader list.Ray Liotta voices Tommy VercettiGTA3 lead character Claude was mute, but 12 months later, Vice City's protagonist Tommy Vercetti was voiced by Ray Liotta – a symbol of the series' rise to prominence and prosperity. Rockstar Games president Sam Houser animatedly described his vision for the game to the Goodfellas actor over dinner, with Liotta describing him (politely) as a 'fucking lunatic'. In 2008, Houser told Edge Magazine that Liotta complained about Vice City's workload and wanted a pay rise to do a sequel. "Well, how about we just killed off your character? That's how we handle that," Houser retorted. Houser 1, Liotta 0.Riding a bike with Billie JeanGTA Vice City's defining moment isn't just cruising the neon-lit 1980s Miami streets for the first time – ideally, on a Harley Davidson inspired Angel – but doing it to Michael Jackson's Billie Jean. Rockstar automatically tuned your first vehicle to Flash FM to play the track – a scripted synergy, but subtle enough to feel accidental. Vice City's incredible, unprecedented, licensed soundtrack opens with arguably the most influential record in pop history, but the *genius* is its iconic framing.The obscene difficulty of Death RowThe game's hardest mission, bar none. You need to shoot your way into a scrap yard to save Lance Vance (voiced by Miami Vice's Philip Michael Thomas). It sounds easy, but guards swarm from all directions and death is only a few direct hits away. Worse, there's a time limit as Lance's energy drains. Death Row exposed GTA's infuriating lack of mission checkpoints, as you drove to AmmuNation to buy a bulletproof vest for the 17h time.Say hello to my little friendOne location. Two key missions. 'Rub Out' sees Tommy Vercetti and Lance Vance team up to shoot their way into drug baron Ricardo Diaz's mansion – an easy task – to end their 'dispute'. The shock is seeing the camera pan outside the mansion with the words 'Property Acquired', the first time GTA allowed you to own a house. Vice City's final mission 'With Friends Like These' takes the Scarface power fantasy full circle, as you defend your mansion from gangster Sonny Forelli and (spoiler) turncoat Lance Vance.The ad you couldn't run fromTo the urgent synth punk of 'I Ran' by Flock of Seagulls, Rockstar's agenda-setting TV ad for Vice City packed all the game's licentious thrills into one 30-second joyride. Shotguns, explosions, night clubs, fast cars – all pummeling the screen in an explosion of neon Miami sunshine. If you didn't care about GTA before you saw the ad, you certainly did afterwards.Protecting Phil Collins in GTA: Vice City StoriesPhil Collins was the first celebrity to appear as himself in a GTA game, but we had to wait until 2006 for the handheld GTA: Vice City Stories on PSP. It was worth it. Playing as Lance Vance's older brother and ex-soldier Vic Vance, you need to protect Collins from assassins during a live performance of In the Air Tonight. Yes, quite. Collinsadmitted to MTVduring the Vice City Stories press tour that the lyrics to this famous track were improvised – much how Sam Houserdescribes the making of GTAIII.• 30 most important moments in GTA history – part one• 30 most important moments in GTA history – part three• 30 most important moments in GTA history – part four
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Sony announces PS Vita TV microconsole | CVG UKThe new Vita 2000 wasn't Sony's only announcement from Tokyo:Sony has announced PlayStation Vita TV, a new device which brings portable gaming and media experiences to TV screens.Measuring 6.5cm by 10.5cm, Vita TV features the chip set and system software of the PS Vita. Using the microconsole and a DualShock controller, Vita TV owners will be able to play 1,300 PS Vita, PSP and older, classic PlayStation games on a television screen.This is an interesting little gizmo and it certainly adds more appeal to the Remote Play proposition. If you live in a household with more than one television, you'll be able to keep your PS4 under the main telly, but then get that big screen console experience on any TV in the home – rather than having to miniaturise it down to the Vita's own display.Playstation 4 to launch in Japan on February 22nd 2014: games, details here | VG247As expected:The Playstation 4 is set to launch next year in Japan, signalling a shift in Sony's regional priorities. Sony announced that the delay compared to the western release was to ensure that western titles were all localised prior to the console's release.At launch the console will cost 38,980 ($390) yen without a PS Eye camera or 43,980 ($440) with it. Pre-orders begin October 5.The first batch of Playstation 4s in Japan will be the "Limited Pack" which includes a download code for Knack and a year's extended warranty for the Playstation. The Limited Pack is available for both the with and without camera bundles. Western Playstation 4′s will not include a copy of Knack.Major Nelson thinks 'Xbone' nickname is disrespectful | VideoGamer.comUh-oh, the Major has a minor grievance with mischievous gamers:Xbox One's 'Xbone' nickname hasn't gone down too well with Microsoft's Larry Hryb (aka Major Nelson), who believes that the name "disrespects" the effort made by the Xbox team back at Redmond."I don't like it," Hryb replied when asked on NeoGAF what he thought of the nickname."It disrespects the teams that have put in thousands of hours (already) into the development of the product. Sure, it's cheeky but I don't care for it myself."Sorry, Maj.Kojima addresses criticism over MGSV's sexy Quiet character | GameSpot.comAfter yesterday's Press Start story, a minor development:Metal Gear Solid creator Hideo Kojima has responded to recent criticism concerning the intentionally "sexy" depiction of Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain's female character Quiet.In a string of tweets recently, Kojima told fans that there is a contextual reason why Quiet--who never speaks in the game--was designed the way she was.And those Tweets:"I know there's people concerning about 'Quiet' but don't worry. I created her character as an antithesis to the women characters... appeared in the past fighting game who are excessively exposed. 'Quiet' who doesn't have a word will be teased in the story as well... But once you recognize the secret reason for her exposure, you will feel ashamed of your words &amp; deeds."That's completely sorted then.Ex-Zynga exec John Schappert starts new game startup with investment from Nexon | GamesBeatJohn Schappert, formerly a high ranking exec at EA and Zynga, has returned to his roots as a game developer by setting up a new studio:Shiver Entertainment (named after the word for a pack of sharks) will be based in Miami, where Schappert grew up and not far from the game company, Tiburon, that he created many years ago. It is the latest step in a storied career that included the No. 2 jobs at Zynga, Electronic Arts, and Microsoft's Xbox business. The new company, founded in December, will make free-to-play games for the PC and mobile devices, and that's why it's a good fit within the portfolio of Nexon, the Asian game company that pioneered free-to-play."It was a lot of fun working in the big corporate jobs of the past few years," Schappert said in an interview with GamesBeat. "But the most fun I had in my career was when I started Tiburon and ran game studios working with some of the best creators in the world making some of the most successful games in the world."Videogames in the Amazon | Flickr - Photo Sharing!BioWare co-founder Ray Muzyka left the studio last year and is currently traveling through Ecuador. Recently he met up with the remote Schuar tribe and couldn't help showing off his gaming devices:I happened to have my iPad with me with a bunch of games on it, and Leona had her iPhone with some photos from home, so we first told them about snow (which some of them had seen from a distance, on the mountains of the Andes in Ecuador, but very few had seen in person), Canadian winter (which, when we described how cold it gets where we live in the winter in Edmonton, Alberta - and for how many months we have snow on the ground - they asked us if we live on top of a mountain; they also didn't want to accept that our trees would survive being frozen, even though we showed them photos to prove it!), ice hockey (which seemed to intrigue them - they know about and play soccer/football, but hadn't heard about hockey before). After that, the indigenous tribespeople and the rest of our group enjoyed playing air hockey together on my iPad, with the local children all taking turns playing until we reluctantly had to call it a night. That evening was a lot of fun :)Rumours that the tribe later imprisoned him due to the ending of Mass Effect 3 are unconfirmed.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Google is releasing a five-part YouTube documentary about The Clash to promote the digital release of remastered versions of five of their albums on its Google Play store.The Audio Ammunition documentary lasts just under an hour, and draws on unseen footage of the late Joe Strummer, and new interviews with his surviving bandmates talking about the writing and recording process for the five studio albums.It's not the first time Google has released this kind of documentary, or "Mini-doc" as the company describes it. Previous recipients of the treatment include theRolling Stones,Mötley CrüeandBusta Rhymes."We try to do at least one of these a quarter, although we don't always pull out all the stops for a mega production like this," says Tim Quirk, who as Google's head of global content programming, oversaw the project, which was a collaboration with the band and label Sony Music."We'd been talking to Sony for a long time about what we might do, but the moment a lightbulb went off over my head was when they told me they'd uncovered lots of unseen, unused interview footage with Joe Strummer," says Quirk."I thought 'oh, 15-20 minutes, that's fine, I can get 3-4 usable minutes out of that'. But it was hours and hours: more than two dozen DVDs. It was from when they sat down to do [2000 documentary] Westway to the World: Joe in front of a camera being interviewed about the entire arc of the band's career."In the music industry's crosser moments with Google, the company is often accused of valuing technology over music: algorithms over the creative arts.Quirk doesn't fit into that stereotype. Before his current role overseeing music, books, apps and video merchandising within Google, he was VP of programming at subscription music service Rhapsody. Before that, he was a music journalist, and before that he was a frontman himself, for punk-pop bandToo Much Joy."The Clash literally changed my life, so you can imagine what it was like spending a week watching these DVDs on my bus ride to and from work, taking extensive notes, and then sitting down with Mick and Paul and Topper for the new interviews," he says."London Calling, as far as I'm concerned, is the greatest album in the history of the universe. When we got to that part of the interviews, that was my first question: 'how does it feel to have written the best album ever?' It was awkware, it made them uncomfortable, but I had to say it because it's true!"Naturally, there's a commercial motive behind the documentary: to persuade people to buy the remastered albums on Google Play, or listen to them through the Google Play All Access subscription service."The way you make a subscription service work is by constantly turning people on to new music, but 'new' doesn't have to mean it was released last week. It just has to be new to that individual customer," says Quirk."I've felt for a long time that Joe Strummer should be idolised in a way that he's not necessarily been. You see Bob Marley and John Lennon on posters and t-shirts all over the place, but I'm not sure why you don't see the same thing with Joe Strummer. Although you do in my office…"Quirk sees The Clash as fitting into a narrow line of bands whose impact went far beyond their fanbases to shift the direction of popular (rock) music."In the 60s you had the Beatles and the Stones. In the 70s the Sex Pistols and The Clash. In terms of rock music, Nirvana was the next one. That to me is the pantheon," he says."I was 13 or 14 when I first heard The Clash, and they were really important: they instantly made the music I'd been listening to feel like a cartoon."The documentary is also aimed at communicating this to younger YouTube and Google Play users, a decent chunk of whom may not even have been born when the band released their fifth album Combat Rock in 1982.Google commissioned some modern bands to perform Clash songs for the project, with Thao &amp; the Get Down Stay Down, Surfer Blood, Kurt Vile and Slipknot's Corey Taylor all choosing songs from London Calling to cover the songs in their own styles.Quirk says it's the interviews that make Audio Ammunition shine, though, as they did for the previous Rolling Stones and Mötley Crüe mini-docs on YouTube."Even when people are a big, jaded rock act, when they start talking about the music, they become the fanboys who started the band in the first place," he says."All the celebrity bullshit goes out the window, and you get a visceral sense of what it was like hanging out in the studio making those songs. It's very easy for that youthful passion to get beaten out of you in the industry!"He admits the same thing can happen for journalists and others involved in music curation – a phrase that's very fashionable in 2013, as streaming music services like Spotify, Deezer and Google's All Access strive to prove they're more than just search boxes for catalogues of tunes.Google may possess the most famous search box of all elsewhere in its business, but Quirk's team is focusing on editorial recommendations and – as shown by the mini-docs – creating new content around music.He says his experience at Rhapsody (including its predecessor Listen.com, "the online Mojo, a different thousand-word feature in every genre every week!" he laughs) has taught him the importance of stepping back too."The truth is the average customer doesn't know who the hell you are, and they don't care. We take great pride in our knowledge and expertise, and we have an evangelical fervour to turn the world onto music, but we're also very humble," says Quirk."It's more important to build an infrastructure that enables discovery than it is to stand in front of people and say 'I am Tim Quirk, here are my recommendations'. They need to feel like they're choosing their own adventure."The importance of human beings: perhaps not something Google's fiercer critics would expect to hear coming out of the company. But a sign that within its music team, people and algorithms are complementary, not competing."It's not either/or. You need algorithms, and you need human beings training the algorithms. The speech I give all young whipper-snappers joining our team is this: the days of being a gatekeeper and a tastemaker are over. That's not our job," says Quirk."We are park rangers. There is more music in Google Play than any one person could listen to in a lifetime, and our job is to make that content navigable: we're bushwhacking trails through the content jungle, if you will."
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGovt. violates privacy safeguards to secretly monitor Internet traffic &gt;&gt; The HinduShalini Singh:Amid fresh controversy following reports of the U.S.'s Prism programme targeting the Brazilian President, and the impending launch of the Indian government's own Central Monitoring System (CMS) project, an investigation by The Hindu reveals that the Internet activities of India's roughly 160 million users are already being subjected to wide-ranging surveillance and monitoring, much of which is in violation of the government's own rules and notifications for ensuring "privacy of communications".While the CMS is in early stages of launch, investigation shows that there already exists — without much public knowledge — Lawful Intercept and Monitoring (LIM) systems, which have been deployed by the Centre for Development of Telematics (C-DoT) for monitoring Internet traffic, emails, web-browsing, Skype and any other Internet activity of Indian users.There was a big row a couple of years ago over BlackBerry encryption and India. Was this a workaround?Android favors piracy &gt;&gt; spin ½Amit Jain:Google has an inherent incentive in keeping piracy alive. It makes Android a much more attractive option in developing nations and earns Google users, a lot, lot, of users. This certainly cuts into developer returns, who are then forced to resort to ads. This also works out in Google's favor as the largest seller of Ads in the world. Does this affect the quality of apps? Certainly. Are they barely good enough? Certainly. And, that is good enough for Google.Surface RT 2: Tegra 4, 1080P screen, and more &gt;&gt; NeowinIf you are curious about what the features will be for the upcoming Surface RT 2, likely to be called just the Surface, the device will be equipped with a Tegra 4 CPU, 1080P screen, two-step style kickstand and we are also hearing the RAM will get bumped to 4GB too. We are not sure if the RAM bump will be like that of the Surface Pro 2 that may include models that have either 4GB or 8GB.These updates will result in a modest bump to the specs to the Surface RT and will help keep the tablet running Windows RT 8.1 with ease. These updates are clearly a evolutionary step for the Surface RT family and is by no means a complete re-write of the device.We will be curious to see what the price point is when Microsoft releases the device to see if they stick with the $349 price or if they return to the initial MSRP of $499.Two-step kickstand might be the best improvement. None of the rest matters; they aren't the reason why the Surface RT didn't sell.Making Windows Phone an even better choice for business &gt;&gt; Windows Phone blogFrom July: Windows Phone is getting some more enterprise features.The enterprise feature pack will include:• S/MIME to sign and encrypt email• Access to corporate resources behind the firewall with app aware, auto-triggered VPN• Enterprise Wi-Fi support with EAP-TLS•Enhanced MDM policies to lock down functionality on the phone for more enterprise control, in addition to richer application management such as allowing or denying installation of certain apps• Certificate management to enroll, update, and revoke certificates for user authenticationWe plan to provide the feature pack as an update in the first half of 2014.These are all really important for Windows Phone acceptance in the enterprise. The first half of 2014 is nearly four years after its introduction.iPhone 5S, 5C leaks: getting parts on Alibaba doesn't make you connected to Apple &gt;&gt; MacgasmJoshua Schnell:From the looks of it, most of Dickson's part leaks have originated from the DBW's offerings on its Alibaba page. Thing is, Dickson couldn't even be bothered to remove evidence from his blog posts that he blatantly got the images and parts from a seller on Alibaba. Thebar code on the iPad mini 2 caseis the exactsame one that appears on the DBW Electronics Co.'sAlibaba page. The. Exact. Same. One. Heck, some of the photos are the exact same if you dig around long enough, with the only exception being that the official DBW Electronics Co.'s images had watermarks on Alibaba. Maybe DBW got the parts from the factory workers that Dickson cites, then DBW built prototypes and is then selling them, but either way, something doesn't add up here.Samsung sold over 38 million Galaxy Note devices &gt;&gt; SamMobileSamsung's CEO JK Shin confirmed the sales of its Galaxy Note range that was introduced couple of years back. At a press meet during IFA, JK Shin said that the Galaxy Note range – which includes the original Galaxy Note and the Galaxy Note II – sold over 38m units. That's impressive number for a form factor that was ridiculed by many for its size initially.Shin also confirmed that regarding the Galaxy Note 3 sales, he expects "10m units will be sold", which we assume is the launch numbers considering the mass availability of the device from 25 September.JK Shin also supported the high price of Galaxy Gear, saying "it provides a lot of functions."Galaxy Note 3 and Galaxy Gear will go on sale in 149 countries from 25 September whereas America and Japan will get it in October."Provides a lot of functions" is not synonymous with "offers a lot of functionality".The end of email as we know it &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedAfter over 10 years of using email through clients — from Outlook to Mail to Sparrow to Mailbox — I stopped. It was about two months ago. I switched, or began switching, from Sparrow to the Gmail site. On my phone, I deactivated iPhone Mail and switched to Gmail's official app. Now Google doesn't just host and operate my email service, it owns and controls my entire email experience.I'm uneasy about this, but it was my choice. I made it, and I expect millions more will too. That's because, starting with the introduction of a fast, app-like webmail service and followed by the release of native, Gmail-specific mobile apps, Google has been recreating — and taking control of — what had become the last piece of digital real estate users could legitimately feel like they controlled: their inboxes.Gmail's new tabbed inbox was what finally pulled me over: It accomplishes, using Gmail's enormous data resources, what few, if any, personally designed email filter systems can.Should we be counting the days until Google turns off IMAP?Top selling mobile phones of all time &gt;&gt; Business TechWhile smartphones and smart devices dominate today's headlines, with big smart brands like Samsung and Apple ruling the roost – these electronics giants were once unknown entities in a mobile market dominated by Nokia.On Tuesday (3 September) Microsoft announced that it will buy Nokia's phone business for $7.2bn – marking the sale of the world's most prolific mobile phone brand.Unsurprisingly, when looking at the list of top 10 most-sold mobile handsets – the list is dominated by Nokia – hailing back to its glory days of the 90s and 2000s, before the advent of smart phones massive mobile data use.Try to guess the only phone manufacturer apart from Nokia in the top 10.Nissan unveils its in-car smartwatch &gt;&gt; The Next WebThat's right, Nissan has unveiled the Nismo Watch ahead of the Frankfurt Motor Show, which begins tomorrow, as it seeks to connect drivers to their cars, and provide real-time biometric data.More specifically, the watch — which is still at concept stage — will monitor the efficiency of a vehicle (by reading average speed and fuel consumption), provide telematics and performance data, monitor drivers' biometric data (via a heart monitor rate) and receive in-car messages from Nissan.#headdashYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
European Union antitrust regulators have received new proposals from Google as it tries to avoid a huge fine and to settle a three-year row over how it presents search results.The EU competition chief, Joaquín Almunia, said at the weekend that he would decide on the proposals in the coming months, but would probably put it to "market testing", in which rivals would get a say on its approval or rejection.If no deal can be reached, the European commission could fine Google up to 10% of its revenues, and impose its own ruling on how Google presents its own and others' sites in search results.Its aim is to ensure Google's monopoly in search is not used to shut out rivals in different fields. Google previously offered to make some alterations to how it shows search results – a proposal that other companiesroundly rejected in July.Separately, Almunia's team has told Samsung Electronics to offer new concessions in an antitrust investigation over its use of "standards-essential" patents in lawsuits against Apple last year.The EC aims to stop Samsung from trying to shut out rivals by refusing to licence the patents, which are needed in modern smartphones. Doing so breaches the pledges made by the company to standards bodies.The ECcharged Google's Motorola Mobility with a similar offence in Mayover lawsuits filed in Germany against Apple for iPhones and iPads with 3G wireless capability.If Samsung does not satisfy the EC it could be fined 10% of its 2012 worldwide revenue – which would amount to $18.3bn (£11.6bn) , the largest fine ever imposed by the EC. The present record is €1.47bn (£1.24bn) imposed in December over a cartel in TV parts, against eight firms including Samsung, Philips, LG and Toshiba."The commission can confirm that Samsung has submitted proposals, the commission has assessed them and asked Samsung to improve them," Jonathan Todd, an EU spokesman, said.
Jake Davis, who as "Topiary" in the hacking crew LulzSec was involved in breakins to a number of websites culminating in a hack of the Sun's news site - and subsequently sentenced to serve time in a young offenders' institution - says his intention was only to prompt debate about how marketing and mass use had overtaken internet security.In a series of answers on the Ask.fm website, Davis has been responding to questions from users about his involvement with the notorious group, whose members received sentences varying from community service to a number of years in prison. ("Sabu", the New York-based Hector Xavier Monsegur, who acted as a ringleader for the group, has had his sentencing adjourned twice since January, as he is still believed to be acting as a witness for the FBI in a number of cases.)Davis's responses are often laden with irony, sarcasm and wild invention, as befits someone who ran the social side - particularly the Twitter account - of LulzSec, which still has more than 330,000 followers but to which he says he no longer has access. He is also banned from using virtual machines, leaving the UK, or associating with former members of LulzSec until they have served their sentences.Origins and purpose of LulzSecAsked about the group's origins, Davis says: "I thought the idea of Anonymous at the time was the right idea and always saw LulzSec as a sort of pretty little firework that could sprinkle into nothing so that we could start focusing on the real issues, like the freedom of journalists, drone strikes, censorship, spying, etc., but that's not how the third party cookie crumbles. It's a strange one to answer in terms of the "difference" between the two "groups", it's all just separate tabs in the same window, if you can picture the concept. I just want accountability for the real shadowy criminals such as those at the NSA right now. Thankfully now we seem to be paying attention to people like Glenn Greenwald at a mainstream level and there's no need to wave the top hat and monocle [the symbol used for LulzSec's Twitter account and other communications] around any more."He explains: "We invented LulzSec during a very bored conversation on some abandoned IRC server. It was "Lulz Leaks" but then I forgot all of the passwords and we had to change the name. The top hat and monocle image was chosen at random from one of my Reaction Face folders with several thousand other, unrelated pictures. From there it was a case of making it up as we went along. I wouldn't even call it a conspiracy because that implies some level of organization. It's fantastic that companies are securing themselves and that we're taking Internet privacy seriously at a mainstream level now, even though LulzSec was fundamentally a waste of time."He adds that "It seems like LulzSec was a small-time hacking group prior to that [30 May 2011] article [on the PBS websiteclaiming that rapper Tupac Shakur was alive in New Zealand] being posted. It was one of the incidents that pushed it up a notch, yes, along with The Sun fake story [in June]. I always wanted to find a way to engage a public debate about the absurdity of how Internet marketing and mass social "cyber flocking" had far overtaken Internet security, through a series of whimsical and relatively harmless pranks (Westboro Baptist Church, etc.) but unfortunately the people with the skills wanted to cause pointless carnage, probably to comply with orders from their FBI handlers." ("Sabu" had been arrested by the FBI on 7 June 2011 and persuaded to become an informant.)Davis professes that "I don't care about Hector in the slightest. Not even a little. I have no strong feelings one way or the other."Choice of nameWhy did he call himself "Topiary" (and "@atopiary" on Twitter)? A film, he says: " I chose "Topiary" after seeing a film called Primer by Shane Carruth. I checked his IMDB page and found he was working on another film called "A Topiary", and I thought, in these exact words, "that's p. sweet, that's a p. sweet word, I'm going to use that p. sweet word", and I did. It just so happens that I didn't clear it from my IRC client nickname history and that's just the name I was using at the time. I actually met Shane at Sundance London earlier this year and he knew about the handle and Anonymous - he's actually a big supporter of free information activism and so we had a couple of drinks. Nice man, but it turns out A Topiary is now being scrapped because it'stoo confusing for mainstream media."Suspicions about Sabu and arrestBut he says he was suspicious about Sabu, who disappeared for 24 hours due to his arrest by the FBI. "There was a story about his grandmother dying that the FBI must have made up for him, which was a little strange as it had three variations and morphed as it needed to be. Apart from that he just wanted to engage in a lot more hacking than before, constantly referring to everyone as his 'brothers' and saying things like 'we're all in this together', obviously under orders to make other hackers all seem like close friends to him and each other. It's incredible A) how stupid everyone else was (including myself) and B) how callous the FBI can be in its efforts to make examples of anyone not showing signs of being a 'good citizen', even if it means teetering on the fence of illegality themselves."He accuses the US law enforcement agency of trying to entrap him. "The FBI intended to entrap me via Sabu for as long as possible to incriminate my activities at the highest level. One week I told Sabu that I had no intention of involving myself in any more crime (organized by him) and that I wanted to switch to helping the activist movement solely through art and writing. That same week my home was raided. It's nothing new, we were just another set of pawns in the FBI 'strategy'".His questioning by Scotland Yard consisted mainly of being asked about the contents of browser tabs which he had had open at the time of his arrest in August 2011. "Just a lot of 'What is this video?' 'Does it hold any relevance to LulzSec?' 'So just a video you happened to be watching at the time?' while pointing to a piece of paper of a printed out screenshot of a paused YouTube page. They did this with every single tab/page/window I had open, which must have been around 50. Can't argue with the thoroughness of the investigation but it was a dull exercise for everyone involved."He says that rather than being convicted over any of his LulzSec activities, the main cause of his sentence was thehack of the Westboro Baptist Churchearly in 2011, in which he took part in a phone call live on air while the "church" was hacked.Out of reachAlthough theLulzSec Twitter accountis not offline, he says he can't get at it: "The password for ‎@LulzSec was actually in an encrypted passwords file already open while my home was raided, and the computer forensics officer took a screenshot of it. The account is now legally accessible only by Scotland Yard / FBI / GCHQ / whoever, but yes I could still log into it, though it would probably be breaching some mysterious small-print I'm not aware of. Technically it would be considered hacking into someone else's account if I even signed into ‎@atopiary which may be a separate crime within itself. Crazy world, sexy anonymous text. Crazy world." He adds afterwards that "Looking back, it's actually remarkable how popular that account was - shame on everyone, really."SentencingDavis says he is still serving his sentence: "My sentence was 3 years and that's after half of my charges (two counts of fraud) were dropped. I was never guilty of these anyway. My guilty plea (a year in advance) knocked off another year (i.e. a third). The time I served on a nightly curfew knocked off another 328 days, and the fact that I managed to fully rehabilitate myself and find work despite being legally banned from accessing even an email address during a strict police bail stretching two years while preparing for a trial that never happened fully proved to the judge that I wasn't a real criminal. If I had snitched on Jeremy Hammond (I didn't even know who Jeremy Hammond was at the time) I wouldn't have even received a prison sentence, which, as you now know, was 3 years in its raw form. 3 years for being a spokesperson with no hacking knowledge. In fact, I'm still technically serving my prison sentence for another 11 months in the community, and I'm highly restricted with file and association orders stretching into July 2018."Mystery of the BitcoinsWhen the British members of LulzSec were sentenced in May, we noted that there was aremaining mystery over the location of a number of Bitcoinsthat had been sent to the group's Bitcoin address ("wallet").Davis deals with the suggestion that "Avunit" - a still-unidentified member - made off with them. "Highly unlikely. I believe the BitCoin account (called CoinGobbler) stopped working after I was arrested and the police took control of it. At the time we received around 700 BitCoins in donations, which right now would be worth around $88,000 and at a peak (for example, 5 months ago) they would be worth $186,000. I can't confirm that the full 700 still exist because I believe Sabu squandered a large portion of those, probably using them to buy servers with which to entrap other hackers for his FBI superiors."Book writingHe said that he would consider writing a book about his experiences with the group, but "I would only ever consider writing a book if Mustafa Al-Bassam, Darren Martyn and Ryan Ackroyd were writing it with me, and I can't legally communicate with those three until next year. Naturally all proceeds would go to charity." The trio were other members of LulzSec - known online respectively as "tflow", "pwnsauce" and "kayla".He is highly critical of his portrayal in the new book "We Are Anonymous" by the journalist Parmy Olson, complaining that "she constantly tried to guess what people were thinking 'behind their screens'". He acknowledges that "I was a very, very stupid and gullible child a few years ago (as you can imagine) and she took full advantage of that… The short version is I gave her a lot of information, a bulk pile of it, and she sculpted it into a very messy ice statue of a horse falling into a pool of custard and horribly drowning, again and again, until all you're left with is horsey custard steak."Future plans and other arrestsBut he says he doesn't plan to become an activist. " I'm not confident or knowledgeable enough to become a voice for anything as important as digital activism. It's flattering that so many people seem to think I know what I'm talking about, but it's really, really easy to sound informative and inspiring through the Internet."He adds: "I was a very stupid young man and I regret 95% of what I did, but now I have a massive trail of job offers, a solid group of friends that supported me during the two year Internet ban / electronic tagging / trial / prison sentence, and a beautiful elusive mating partner that likes the version of me that has come out of the storm rather than the version that caused it. That's an impossible question, though if you're thinking of being Anonymous / Lulz Security version 2, then I suggest you find some other avenue for your creative juices… All that I ever did as part of LulzSec / Anonymous was banter and play games. I think that it would be a terrible idea to go down that route again, knowing the temptation and intense competitiveness I unfortunately acquire from being on the Internet. Been there done that - it's a shame to see others in the same cycle thinking they're exciting and new. They are not. They are banal and covered in bees."A Shetlander, Davis says he plans to go back at least to visit: "I love the fire and passion of the Shetlanders and will definitely return for a visit this year. It's pretty much the maximum distance I can legally travel until next June, so why not?"Asked whether the police are searching for anyone else who was involved in LulzSec, he says: "Maybe searching, maybe waiting until it's in the public interest to prosecute. It's a very strategic game - the court system is a sort of live theatre performance. I'm almost certain they know the identities of nearly every hacker that surfaces around the social networking world but there's too much of a chance for plausible deniability for the sneakier ones. It's not my place to go into great detail about my co-defendants, but the sheer ridiculousness with which they conducted Ryan Ackroyd's arrest was almost a Hollywood satire."But his anger is reserved for David Cameron and his criticism of Ask.fm, the site on which the discussion appears: "David Cameron is an absolute wet-lipped Eton-spawned fleshnugget with no actual perspective on global policy. I hate the Tories with a burning passion reserved for the Westboro Baptist Church. The fault of cyberbullying lies with the parents, like all fault for everything, especially the troubles in Syria."
Email appMailboxseemed like an overnight success earlier this year. It launched in February, quickly signed up more than 1m people through its in-app waiting list, and then in March wasbought by cloud storage firm Dropboxfor a rumoured $100m.Since then, it's been bucking the trend for whizzy app startups to be acquired and shut down (or sometimes acquired, neglected then shut down) by bigger companies more interested in their engineering talent than their actual app.Mailbox – an iPhone and iPad app which aims to help people de-clutter their Gmail inboxes by swiping to archive, delete or "snooze" emails until later – wasn't just an overnight success, either.It was the work of US startup Orchestra, which launched its Orchestra To-do productivity app in September 2011 as an attempt to save people from "using their emails as a terrible to-do list" according to chief executive Gentry Underwood."People think we launched Mailbox and then a couple of weeks later we were bought, but the company was almost 2.5 years old, and we'd spent quite a bit of time before we even incorporated the company figuring out how we wanted to approach this whole area."Orchestra To-do was a collaborative to-do list app with built-in communication features, designed to replace email as a way for people to send one another tasks.Underwood says that on one level, it worked. Its users loved it, and not just in workplaces. It accidentally carved out a new audience of couples, using it to manage their households."But what we found was even our most hardcore users were still trapped with their original problem: even if they were using Orchestra with their colleagues and/or loved ones, they were still getting emails from the rest of the world, and they still had tasks trapped in their inboxes," says Underwood."We'd created a two-inbox situation! And unless we got the whole world to shift to Orchestra, we wouldn't be able to beat email. It sounds obvious, but it was humble pie for us: we'd tried foolishly to change something that had become such a collective part of human behaviour. Individuals may decide to 'get off email', but generally they get back on. They have to."Reinventing emailCue Mailbox: an attempt by Underwood, co-founder Scott Cannon and their team to reinvent email rather than trying to replace it: recognising that while email as a platform probably wasn't going anywhere, the tools used to interact with it could do with some work."On mobile devices, the email experience was mostly a crammed-down desktop experience that people were trying to represent with fewer pixels," says Underwood. "Yet the things people were trying to do on their phones was really different to when sitting at their desks."He talks about moments of triage: a word derived from the medical and military professions meaning quickly scanning a large collection of things and deciding what needs most urgent attention. Not casualties, but emails, in this case.Underwood also mentions a well-known self-help book by David Allen calledGetting Things Done, with its "do it, delegate it, defer it, drop it" approach to emptying in-trays."I watched people who'd mastered that, and saw how much control they felt they had over their time. But those people often called themselves ninjas! They'd basically developed a martial art, and there's a very low retention-rate of people who read that book who stick to it," says Underwood."But a smartphone can remember things for you and push things to a later date, and they can come back. We tried to use that to do what the GTD system was asking people to do via memory and discipline, to build a mobile email client focused on triage, and giving you this superpower to push things into the future."Like most technology journalists, I could easily bore on about my awful inbox. And sometimes do on Twitter, which is increasingly where I go to hide from my emails.Some of the acclaim around Mailbox's launch in February was down to this: the app was trying to solve a problem for people with iPhones and Gmail accounts and awful inboxes, and that includes a lot of technology journalists and people in the technology community. Cue hype.Dropbox clearly thought there was more to Mailbox than hype, though. It acquired Orchestra in March at a time when the startup was considering raising a new round of funding to follow its $5m Series A round from 2011."We knew there was so much work ahead, extending this to the desktop and other mobile devices besides iPhones, and extending beyond Gmail to other email platforms and other communication platforms: there's no reason why this shouldn't take in your Facebook messages and Twitter DMs, alongside your traditional emails," says Underwood."But we knew we had this big road ahead of us, and many complexities and challenges of hiring world-class engineers and designers. With Dropbox, we got a larger organisation that had those already."Mailbox's iPad appDropbox investmentI remember my heart sinking when I first saw tweets about Dropbox buying Mailbox, having seen my previous favourite-new-email-appSparrow get bought by Googleas more of an "acquihire" to get the company's team.Yet Dropbox made the right noises about keeping Mailbox going and bumping up its team's resources. More importantly, it followed through on those promises, according to Underwood."When Google bought Sparrow, the announcement was something like 'we're going to take many of the learnings and apply them to the Gmail team', which is not-so-coded language for 'acquihire'," says Underwood."There was a clear message coming out of Dropbox that they weren't acquiring us to put the team on other things, and they have been true to their word in terms of supporting this thing and helping it thrive. The resources we're now bringing to bear on this mean we can work much more quickly than we could have on our own."Neither Dropbox nor Mailbox have announced updated download or active-user figures for the app since the acquisition, and Underwood declines to do so now beyond saying that 40% of its users get to "Inbox Zero" every week.So what next? The beyond-iOS-and-Gmail is high on Mailbox's agenda. "We've got to come in and support all the email providers that other people have: there's so much pain around Exchange for example," says Underwood."We're also looking at more customisation in how the tool works: for example we're finding that people long-swipe to trash emails more than they short-swipe to archive, even though Google would like you to keep your emails forever."Mailbox is also thinking about the evolution of its Snooze feature, which currently lets you chuck emails out of your inbox for set periods of time: later today, this evening, tomorrow, next week, in a month and so on."Right now, that's only based on time, but there are lots of other ways, like tying it to places, or other devices like 'when I get back to my computer', or even to people. Why can't this reappear next time I see my wife, or the person who sent it?" says Underwood.Email meets messagingThere's also that earlier comment about including other kinds of messages, like Twitter direct messages (DMs) and Facebook messages. Mailbox itself is an inbox that aims to help people make quick decisions about which messages are worth their attention, and deal with them (or delay them) accordingly. Those aren't just email problems."As a workflow, that seems appropriate for email, but also any channel through which requests are made of us: Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, even SMS or iChats," he says."The right approach will be to create a platform where it's easy to hook in as many of those inputs as you can, while being respectful of the fact that people use them in different ways. If my wife needs something quickly, she'll send an SMS, but if she wants me to remember something, she'll send me an email."What about instant messaging? Last week saw lots of tech-blogosphere excitement aboutPing: not Apple's ill-fated music social network, but a soon-to-launch app thatwraps emails in a WhatsApp-style messaging interface, blurring the boundaries between the two formats.The theory seems to be that a lot of emails could probably be handled as easily as chat messages. Would that be an interesting aspect to add to an app like Mailbox?"There's a long list of things we could do, including the chat-like features that Ping as been leaning into, and presence – seeing when someone's online – seeing them typing, and having more of a chat-style aesthetic around it," says Underwood.He goes on to suggest that these conversational threads are just one aspect of the average inbox, and that applying a chat-like user interface to, say, newsletters, Amazon receipts or flight itineraries risks being much more awkward."The right approach is to recognise that email is this universal transport for a whole host of different content, so get smarter about the kind of content it is, and create a best-case experience for each type," he says."Maybe newsletters become more rich and enjoyable, conversations become more chat-like, and maybe receipts get forwarded straight along to your receipts app, so you don't have to do the work yourself of creating an email folder for them."Gmail's new inbox tabs work on mobile as well as desktopGmail tabs 'burden'Smart inboxes, there. Which is topical, givenGmail's recent launch of a new tabbed structurefor its service, which automatically sorts emails under Primary, Social, Promotions, Updates and Forums tabs.I tried this with my Gmail account, and quickly turned all off bar Primary and Social. It felt more stressful, like having multiple inboxes to manage. It seems I'm not the only one to have had this reaction."We had an early version of Mailbox designed similarly, and when we saw Gmail come out with that, we had a good chuckle. It's way worse to have to check five inboxes! It's such a burden: there's a sense of heaviness and busy-ness," says Underwood."It's not the right direction to go in my opinion. We had early tests with these multiple inboxes, and they were a drag to use: bad enough on a desktop, and worse on mobile. The idea of understanding the different kinds of content in your inbox is wonderful, but the workflow needs to remain simplified."Google was presumably never in the running to buy Mailbox, given its Sparrow acquisition in 2012. But it's intriguing to think about Underwood's response if the company had made overtures, given that he criticises Google several times during this interview.For example, there are his views on business models. Mailbox remains free to download and use, but advertising isn't included, and given its parent company, getting people to pay for premium features looks a likelier strategy for the future."The thing I find personally compelling about building this at Dropbox versus a company where the business model is different is that here, the customer is the user, and the idea is to build tools that are so great, people are willing to pay for them," says Underwood."It's very different approach and goals than giving people storage for free, then crawling through all that stuff to build smarter and smarter profiles about them, and delivering that information to advertisers, who'll pay quite a bit for it. That's a very successful business model, but not necessarily one that has the end user's interests in mind."Underwood says he's also not keen on the Gmail model from a product design point of view, in terms of walking the line between the needs of advertisers and those of users.Defer with iOS 7What he is impressed by, though, is the direction in which Apple is taking its iOS software, also on product-design grounds. Like other developers, the Mailbox team has been working on updating its app for iOS 7 ever since it wasannounced at Apple's WWDC event in June.Underwood says iOS 7 clearly reflects the established design ethos of Apple's Jony Ive and his team, and suggests that this means more for developers than Googling "flat design" and cracking out the neon palettes."Apple have tried to create tools that are deferential: that defer to the user and the task, and try to get out of the way," says Underwood."In iOS 7, they're making very aggressive attempts to design those same principles into the software: to get away from all the fancy sheen and gloss and shadow and skeuomorphic bumpiness,  and create tools that disappear, which is what good design is all about."Underwood says this is a cue for Mailbox to make its interface even "simpler, cleaner and straightforward", due to Apple giving developers "permission to be more aggressive in building something optimised for deference".He's also interested by new platforms and devices. More so smart watches than Google Glass, on similar grounds of deference to the user. Or, indeed, those around them."With Glass, there are all sorts of 'killer apps' being talked about, but these tools underestimate the social awkwardness created by their presence," he says."Every time someone is standing next to you wearing one of these things, you don't know if you're being recorded. It's as if someone's walking around with a camcorder shoved in your face. It's a strange inequity that I think makes people feel awfully uncomfortable."Smart watches and the idea of glancing at your wrist when notified about something happening on your smartphone – emails and messages, for example – is clearly an interesting concept for Mailbox, with Samsung fresh into the market and both Apple and Google thought to be working on their own rival gadgets.Google Glass Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesTech for humansBut back to Glass. "It's not a coincidence that Google is the company pushing Glass. They tend to over-optimise for technology without paying enough attention to the social affordances and nuances of human interaction," says Underwood."Design has always been a following force at the company, not a leading one, yet this stuff really matters. As a human race we are all employing technology, and we have some say over what happens next. I hope we continue to prefer tools that defer to us as living creatures, and less to those that try and make us into some sort of cyborgs."In the meantime, there's email to sort out, without requiring similar cyborg-level organisational abilities from humans. Does he ever wonder if email is past saving, though?"I'm a pragmatist. If we were all to sit around in a room and say 'okay, what should we use to communicate with each other?', we'd almost certainly design something better than email," says Underwood."Email is far from ideal: it's riddled with problems, but that train has left the station. I will receive hundreds of emails today and tomorrow, whether I want to or not. The question is what do I do about them?" he continues."The most viable approach to improve the problem is to build better, smarter tools that automate more of the decision-making around what needs to be done with the mail, minimising the number of times my attention is required, and creating the best possible moments for when it is."
Realism can be an over-rated quality. The modern military titles that have ruled the first-person shooter genre since Call of Duty 4 have invented or adapted plenty of intriguing mechanics, like character classes, killstreaks and customisable load-outs. However, they have also brought with them the most limited colour palettes game design has ever seen, an unnerving fixation on real-life firearms and a jingoistic post-9/11 obsession with Middle Eastern terrorists and geographically indistinct Euro-bullies. This has all led to some extraordinarily silly and confused plotting.This is all fine in measured doses, but the arm wrestle between Battlefield and Call of Duty, which has pulled in a swathe of 'me too' competitors, has also seemingly pushed away much of the imaginative vigour from the genre.  The horizons have drawn in.But the future looks very different. At both E3 and Gamescom – the major events on the gaming calendar – the talk was of two shooters set far away from current geopolitical interests. Bungie's breathlessly ambitious Destiny is an action role-playing blaster set in a distant future where mankind's colonisation of space has been ended by some apocalyptic catastrophe, and now survivors must re-group on Earth with the help of a mysterious alien presence known as the Traveler. In Titanfall, the multiplayer-only battle drama revolves around two factions – the Interstellar Manufacturing Corporation and the M-COR militia – slugging it out to control a dark cyberpunk landscape, dominated by mech warfare. Okay, so in narrative terms, we're not talking about great originality here, and for Destiny developer, Bungie, this latest project is a natural evolution of the space operatics found in previous titles Marathon and Halo. But you know, at least we're no longer saving America from an inexplicable yet obsessively justified land invasion.Everything flowsDestiny – persistent massively multiplayer space operaThe key innovation both of these titles explore, however, is the interplay between single, co-op and multiplayer action, and the demarcations between them are set to blur forever. In Destiny, for example, the setting is a vast open galaxy, a persistent online environment, where players can carry out narrative missions, strikes and raids with friends, but where at times, they will stumble into the activities of other groups.Community manager, David 'DeeJ' Dague puts it like this. "We're sort of making good on a very old ambition to create a story that different players can experience cooperatively but at the same time have chance encounters with other heroes who are blazing their own trail."So its a seamless interplay between missions and multiplayer groupings? "Seamless is exactly how we like to describe the experience," he confirms. "When you play Destiny, you can choose to be a lone hero or you can invite people to be on your fire team. The fire team is a three-guardian band that will go through this world together, solving mysteries, fighting enemies and reclaiming the solar system. And as that lone hero or fire team moves through each destination, they will see other players in this living social world - these others will be exploring their own mission objectives, but there will be interactions where their paths cross. Those moments are completely elective, but we're going to try to lure silent, lone gamers into these spaces because they'll find rewards that will make them better at the game and make the experience better and more dynamic over time."The structure is not entirely clear, but it seems these public spaces within the game world will house both massively co-operative fights against NPCsandcompetitive multiplayer arenas – with players able to dive in where they like. And of course, whatever they go into, it will be with the same character – their persistent Destony identity. Whereas in current shooters you'll often play as a set of pre-written characters in the campaign and then some customisable anonymous mannequins in multiplayer, Destiny gets you to make a choice at the outset between a set of three character classes, and that is your avatar for every experience in the game."Destiny is all about the choices the player will make," continues Dague, "The first decision they are confronted by is creating their character. Will you play as a titan which is all about heavy armour and brute strength; will you play as a hunter, more of a roguish character with stealthier tactics; or will you play as a warlock, which is devoted to wielding the power of the Traveler using magic as the most powerful weapon. Once the character starts that path, the further they travel down it, the more dangerous they become, imbibed with new weapons, new ways to fight, and new pieces of gear that make them more powerful."A theory has been ricocheting around the industry for years that, as game worlds expand, genres will naturally merge. We've seen it already in the GTA-led gangster adventure oeuvre, where shooting, driving and role-playing elements combine seamlessly. Destiny is an extension of that concept into a persistent, cloud-supported online space.Bringing meaning to multiplayerIn many ways Titanfall is more conventional, but it still evolves the standard FPS recipe in interesting ways. Developer Respawn Entertainment calls its main mode 'campaign multiplayer' – groups of players compete against each other through a linear series of missions, all bookended by story cut-scenes explaining the context of the combat. As a participant, you can save your progress at any point and come back to the campaign whenever you like, so it works just like Single player. And when matches begin, each environment is filled with AI troopers, who join in the combat but also provide little choreographed set-pieces within the action, perhaps hiding out in hidden locations or attacking very specific enemy targets. So again, it feels like a Campaign – just one with human allies and enemies.It's all about the refreshing new cadences that come out during combat. While playing as a ground soldier, or pilot, the game's double jump and wall-running features allow you to traverse the map as a totally three-dimensional environment, sprinting along the sides of buildings, leaping onto rooftops and along catwalks or straight through windows. There's a real sense of freedom, of kinetic possibility, that contrasts massively with the familiar sprint and cover rhythm of the military shooters.And then, at fixed time points in each match, you get to call in a titan mech, which drops onto the map with a whooshing crash, then waits for your command. You get in, and the combat completely changes – now it's about attrition and pummeling force. You're swatting pilots like flies, you're pounding in to explosive battles with other 'bots – like the tank fights in Battlefield, but with swarms of exotic missiles and defense measures. The cockpit feel is nice too, with visible instrumentation, and the fact you're looking through an HUD screen not glass, so everything distorts when you get hit by fire. Then, when the damage reaches critical, you can eject and join the action again as a foot soldier, bringing these vast new action beats to the experience.Looking back to move forwardAccording to producer Drew McCoy, Respawn started with an interesting question: what would be the FPS version of mixed martial arts? So they started looking at classic titles and sub-genres, pulling in ideas from Doom, Counter Strike, Battlefield and more. "We went through a long prototyping process," says McCoy. "Our guys were trying all sorts of crazy stuff. It was all really rough, but it gave us an inkling of what could be good. And early on, one of the key things was movement, which has evolved into wall-running and double jumping - that sense of verticality. The other thing was survivability in a multiplayer game."The current trend is high lethality, one shot and you're down. It's popular, but if you go back 10 years, you had health and armour in Quake and Unreal, you could shoot guys 50 times - we wanted to try play with that, to lengthen the player's life without upsetting that quick kill balance. That's where the titans came in. They act as a kind of second life for you - you can take damage then eject out. Also you have AIs running around which are often easy to beat, so you get that quick kill loop."There's also an ambition to add longevity to player vs player encounters, to get out of the twitch core rut that some well-known military shooters have ploughed. "The movement and face-off gameplay was influenced by Doom, especially the rocket launcher and plasma gun," says McCoy, "Those were projectiles that you could see coming, that you could dodge - there was this really cool back and forth dynamic. So Titans bring in a lot of that - they shoot a LOT of projectiles. And with the dash move, you can get in and out of cover real quick. This way, you're reallyfightingsomeone. It's not 'I shot first so you're dead', it's knowing the environment, knowing how to flank - we looked at a lot of old games for that."In Titanfall, the ability to free run along walls adds a fresh sense of verticality to level designCleverly each Titanfall mission culminates with an intense Epilogue sequence. At the end of every team match, the losing side is given 45 seconds to get to a drop ship and evac – if they make it they get extra XP, a sort of consolation prize; but if the winning team takes out every member of the defeated squad before they make it to the craft, the XP gift goes their way. It turns out this was a last minute addition. "We were marching toward E3 and all the pieces were coming together, we had the story stuff, the narrative  things happening during the game then we had this sign coming up saying 'victory' like every other games does. It just felt wrong. We thought, that's not how a campaign multiplayer ending should feel - you have an invading force thats just lost, now they've got to get out of Dodge!"Changing classesDestiny currently has three character classes to choose from, but thousands of customisation optionsBoth titles also make slight changes to familiar customisation and loud-out options. Destiny allows three main weapons: a primary assault option, a secondary CQB option and a third 'heavy' slot for weapons that do ridiculous amounts of damage. Furthermore, as players progress then can pick up new modifications for their arsenal, so that each gun becomes a sort of narrative instrument. "We're giving players almost endless options for customisation," says Dague. "Every weapon we put in their hands will tell a story about where they've been and the sorts of activities they've engaged in, and every weapon is customisable. The arsenal for this game is bigger than anything we've ever put into the hands of the player."Meanwhile in Titanfall, players start each match by selecting a character class for their pilot (currently Assault, Tactical and CQB)andtheir Titan. These come in three flavours. The main battle titan is equipped with an XO-16 battle rifle and defensive vortex blocker that acts as a shield against enemy fire; the heavy weapons titan gets a 40mm cannon and electrical smoke to hide in; and the high explosive titan boasts a rocket launcher that fires multiple spirally projectiles that'll pummel other mechs into robot heaven. Mixing and matching pilots and titans should provide an intriguing little twist, allowing players to build diverse roles for themselves, taking on stealthy roles as pilots, but transmogrifying into apocalyptic denizens of fiery death when in the titan.Not a war, a revolutionWhat we see in both titles is a sense that the next generation is going to be about interplay and integration. It's not so much a battle between them as it is a battle between them and the past. In the future they predict, single-player will merge with co-op and competitive action; story will merge with multiplayer – but it's all through choice. Players don't have to do any of this, the traditional demarcations survive if you want: Titanfall comes with a whole bunch of traditional drop in and might death match modes. But the seamless interconnection between campaign and online universes hinted at a few years ago by Demons Souls (a big influence on Titanfall according to McCoy), is going to really change things.And what the new consoles will bring, with their more robust online infrastructures and vast cloud-based server networks, is the idea of persistence, of individual stories and adventures converging. Shooters will never be the same again because with the lines blurred and the rules shifted, whole new formats, new possibilities, open up. "It should be seamless and serendipitous," says Dague, on how players meet in Destiny. "It will be like some of the great fantasy tales where different heroes cross paths and come together to share a leg of the adventure before they splinter off in their own directions again. That's the mood we're trying too cultivate.""The thing that we're most excited about is when our community gets hold of this game and adds to it what we feel will be the most important ingredient, which is the character they make. At that point we lose complete and total control of our creation - it becomes theirs, they start doing things in this world that we never imagined. We'll get to learn about what we've created through watching the end user. And we arealwayswatching..."• Destiny is released on PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One in 2014. Titanfall is out on PC, Xbox 360 and Xbox One in 2014.
Brighton's one-daydConstructconference, which took place on Friday, has a reputation for tackling some of the more nuanced and challenging cultural issues which often arise as a result of the proliferation of new technology.DeveloperNicole Sullivangave an excellent talk on managing online bullying and trolls, which felt urgent and timely in light of the horrific harassment ofCaroline Criado-Perezby trolls on Twitter -  which has finally resulted in her deleting her account.We had playfulness, exemplified bySimone Rebaudengo's delightfully whimsical socially-awareconnected toasters, and the charismatic founder of bookmarking service,Pinboard, Maciej Cegłowski, who gave a warm and funny account of his experiences working with the online fan-fiction community.And we heard fromLuke Wroblewski, who outlined the challenges of designing interfaces for the now bewildering array of inputs and sensors - microphones, accelerometers, cameras, magnetometers, gyroscopes and GPS receivers – which we have in our mobile devices.Wroblewski ended by giving us a glimpse into the near-future, where wearable devices will use our own heartbeats to establish our identity.  An electrocardiogram sensor in prototypes devices, such asNymi, monitors the wearer's heartbeat, to authenticate who they are.  The device can then act as a universal 'key' to unlock hardware of software. The ethical implications of a device that uses our hearts, as a key to unlock our car doors, were not discussed.Make the invisible visibleOne artistic response to the revelations around surveillance of technologies we rely on daily – and a theme of dConstruct – has been to urge digital designers to "make the invisible visible", with cyborg-anthropologistAmber Caseexplaining importance of revealing the systems, materials and mechanisms which enable contemporary digital culture.Case, from Portland, who took the stage wearing Google's controversial augmented reality eyewear,Glass. In a spirited historical analysis of wearable technology, which began with the crucial work of artist,Steve Mann, Case discussed persistent architectures, liquid interfaces, the politics of augmented reality, and how location-based games can change our relationship with our urban environment.Case was echoing designerTimo Arnallwho spoke at theImproving Realitylectures the day before:  "As we increasingly inhabit technical systems, and enact society and culture through them, it seems dangerous to have so little idea, about how these things work."Making visible material out of technological infrastructure is the first step towards understanding them. What we can't see, we cannot critically evaluate."User experience designers, and interaction designers, have increasingly been advocating for 'invisible' design, which allows technology to get out of the way, to disappear, enabling 'seamless' interactions between us and our technological devices.But there is a growing critique of this philosophy emerging within both the design and art communities.Pervasive Media Studio'sDan Williamsextended this important theme, which runs throughout this month's Brighton Digital Festival, with his gently excoriating presentation Unexpected Item in the Bagging Area.Referencing the legendaryWhole Earth Catalogin the 1960s by Stewart Brand - described by Williams as "the Argos catalogue for hippies" - Williams expertly unfolded a story about the unintended consequences that emerge when a new technology is introduced into society.Pervasive surveillanceHe pointed to the terrifying pervasiveness of surveillance technologies in our lives, drawing on art projects such as theManifesto for CCTV Filmmakers, which shows how CCTV cameras can be put to creative use, and CV Dazzle byAdam Harvey, which ingeniously illustrates ways we can camouflage ourselves from surveillance and machine vision.Referring to theCritical Engineering Manifestoby Julian Oliver, Gordan Savičić and Danja Vasiliev, Williams called into question the seamless, invisible technological systems which underpin much of our digital culture.Quoting fellow dConstruct alumni, James Bridle, who spoke at dConstruct in2010,Williams noted: "Those who cannot perceive the network cannot act effectively within it, and are powerless. The job, then, is to make such things visible."The tide of international surveillance scandals, revealed in this newspaper byEdward Snowden, have exposed the deep reach of technological systems into our daily lives. dConstruct was an important reminder that we must better equip ourselves with an understanding of how these systems work, so that we can act more intelligently within them. That starts by making the invisible, visible.•Honor Hargeris artistic director ofLighthouse, a digital culture agency based in Brighton. TheBrighton Digital Festivalruns until the end of September.
The excitement is mounting, the hype is growing – the release of the next Grand Theft Auto title is just days away. To celebrate, we've asked journalist and GTA obsessive Dan Dawkins, co-presenter ofGTA V O'Clock, to trawl through the history of the series, picking out a selection of key moments, from favourite missions to outrageous cut-scenes and bizarre Easter Eggs.Today, we're starting out at the fabled rebirth of the series, Grand Theft Auto III (we have something else on the way for the earlier titles...), and through the week we'll edge toward the series' latest instalments. Please let us know your own favourite moments in the comments section – we'll add the most popular to each day's post.For now, let's head back to 2001...Press Triangle to steal carIt seems unremarkable now, but in 2001 the idea of tapping the Triangle button on your DualShock 2 controller to enteranycar in GTA III's 3D open world was a revelation. "I think the first time I sawa wireframe of a 3D carjack, I was like, 'That is it, right there'" said Rockstar Games president Sam Houser at the time. "Just, 'Oh, my god'. Just amazing." From nowhere, GTA III became one of the best selling games of 2001.Sniping at the moonTraditionally, video games reward expertise by rote, with repeated play yielding optimal routes, faster times and higher scores. Rockstar challenged the paradigm with its 'toy box' approach and emergent play – a collusion of physics and 'hidden' rewards – where experimentation yields unexpected results. If you were mad enough to take a sniper shot at the moon, for example, it grew in size to reward your lateral thinking.Is that the soundtrack from Scarface?"Puuush it to the limit" growls Paul Engemann on the defining track from GTA III's Flashback 95.6 radio station. 1997's 2D Grand Theft Auto featured in-car radio, but GTA III was the first full game release to feature licensed music (update:as pointed out in the comments section, the GTA London 1969 mission pack featured licensed tracks from Trojan Records). Significantly, every track on Flashback 95.6 featured in 1983 gangster flick Scarface. 'Push it to the limit' is as much a licensing landmark, as a series' manifesto. GTA's fusion of emergent play, cult movie nostalgia and a potent soundtrack was taking shape.Park and ride: gaming's most controversial mission"The game mechanics of that – looking at it completely isolated from the fact that it involves a hooker – were brilliant, I thought", Sam Houser told Edge Magazine in 2008. However, the Australian Censorship Board didn't feel the same way about GTAIII allowing you to pick up a prostitute, pay for sexual congress… and –optionally– whack the girl to get your money back. The game was temporarily removed from sale in the country until this feature was removed, and ever since, the sequence has been highlighted by moral campaigners looking to have the GTA series banned or censored.'Flying' the Dodo to Ghost IslandGTA III's wingless Dodo plane was notoriously hard to get airborne, but dedicated players turned the handicap into an art form. Using Mario-style swoops, the Dodo could be flown to an almost-mythical 'ghost' island on the edge of the map. Rockstar denied rumours that the Dodo's wings were removed as a result of 9/11. "The Dodo was never meant to be flown… it was a fun thing that people went crazy with when they figured out various bugs that let them fly it".Bomb da boatOne oftheclassic GTA missions, 'Bomb da Base', sees the player teaming up with scarred explosives expert 8-Ball to detonate a drugs factory on a ship docked at Portland harbour. While 8-Ball plants the bomb, it's your job to snipe enemies from the shore – and if all goes well, the smoking hulk of the cargo boat is all that's left as a reminder of your destructive genius. It was so popular, Rockstar added a sequel in GTA IV.• 30 most important moments in GTA history – part two• 30 most important moments in GTA history – part three• 30 most important moments in GTA history – part four
The more we learn about the breadth and depth of the NSA and GCHQ's programmes of spying on the general public, the more alarming it all becomes. The most recent storiesabout the deliberate sabotage of security technologyare the full stop at the end of a sentence that started on 8 August, when the founder of Lavabit (the privacy oriented email provider used by whistleblower Edward Snowden)abruptly shut down, with its founder, Ladar Levison, obliquely implying that he'd been ordered to secretly subvert his own system to compromise his users' privacy.It doesn't really matter if you trust the "good" spies of America and the UK not to abuse their powers (though even the NSA nowadmits to routine abuse), you should still be wary of deliberately weakened security. It is laughable to suppose that the back doors that the NSA has secretly inserted into common technologies will only be exploited by the NSA. There are plenty of crooks, foreign powers, and creeps who devote themselves to picking away patiently at the systems that make up the world and guard its wealth and security (that is,yourwealth and security) and whatever sneaky tools the NSA has stashed for itself in your operating system, hardware, applications and services, they will surely find and exploit.One important check against the NSA's war on security is transparency. Programmes published under free/open software licenses can be independently audited are much harder to hide secret back doors in. But what about the services that we use – certificate providers, hosted email and cloud computers, and all the other remote computers and networks that we entrust with our sensitive data?Ultimately these are only as trustworthy as the people who run them. And as we've seen with Lavabit, even the most trustworthy operators may face secret orders to silently betray you, with terrible penalties if they speak out.This is not a new problem. In 2004, American librarians recoiled at the FBI's demands to rummage through their patrons' reading habits and use them to infer terroristic intent, and at the FBI's gag orders preventing librarians from telling their patrons when the police had come snooping.Jessamyn West, a radical librarian,conceived of a brilliant solution, a sign on the wall of her library reading "THE FBI HAS NOT BEEN HERE (watch very closely for the removal of this sign)." After all, she reasoned, if the law prohibited her from telling people that the FBI had been in, that wasn't the same as her notnottelling people the FBIhadn'tbeen in, right?I was reminded of this last week on a call with Nico Sell, one of the organisers of the annual security conference Defcon (whose founder, Jeff Moss,told the NSA that it would not be welcome at this year's event). Nico wanted me to act as an adviser to her company Wickr, which provides a platform for private messaging. I asked her what she would do in the event that she got a Lavabit-style order to pervert her software's security.She explained that her company had committed to publishing regular transparency reports, modelled on those used by companies like Google, with one important difference. Google's reports do not give the tally of secret orders served on it by governments, because doing so would be illegal. Sell has yet to receive a secret order, so she can legally report in each transparency report: "Wickr has received zero secret orders from law enforcement and spy agencies. Watch closely for this notice to disappear." When the day came that her service had been served by the NSA, she could provide an alert to attentive users (and, more realistically, journalists) who would spread the word. Wickr is designed so that it knows nothing about its users' communications, so an NSA order would presumably leave its utility intact, but notice that the service had been subjected to an order would be a useful signal to users of other, related services.This gave me an idea for a more general service: a dead man's switch to help fight back in the war on security. This service would allow you to register a URL by requesting a message from it, appending your own public key to it and posting it to that URL.Once you're registered, you tell the dead man's switch how often you plan on notifying it that you have not received a secret order, expressed in hours. Thereafter, the service sits there, quietly sending a random number to you at your specified interval, which you sign and send back as a "No secret orders yet" message. If you miss an update, it publishes that fact to an RSS feed.Such a service would lend itself to lots of interesting applications. Muck-raking journalists could subscribe to the raw feed, looking for the names of prominent services that had missed their nothing-to-see-here deadlines. Security-minded toolsmiths could provide programmes that looked through your browser history and compared it with the URLs registered with the service and alert you if any of the sites you visit ever show up in the list of possibly-compromised sites.No one's ever tested this approach in court, and I can't say whether a judge would be able to distinguish between "not revealing a secret order" and "failing to note the absence of a secret order", but in US jurisprudence, compelling someone to speak a lie is generally more fraught with constitutional issues than compelled silence about the truth. The UK is on less stable ground – the "unwritten constitution" lacks clarity on this subject, and the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act allows courts to order companies to surrender their cryptographic keys (for the purposes of decrypting evidence, though perhaps a judge could be convinced to equate providing evidence with signing a message).When the NSA came up with codenames for its projects to sabotage security products, it chose "BULLRUN" and "MANASSAS", names for a notorious battle from the American civil warin which the public were declared enemies of the state. GCHQ's parallel programme was called "EDGEHILL", another civil war battle where citizens became enemies of their government. Our spies' indiscriminate surveillance programmes clearly show an alarming trend for the state to view everyday people as adversaries.Our world is made up of computers. Our cars and homes are computers into which we insert our bodies; our hearing aids and implanted defibrillators are computers we insert into our bodies. The deliberate sabotage of computers is an act of depraved indifference to the physical security and economic and intellectual integrity of every person alive. If the law is perverted so that we cannot tell people when their security has been undermined, it follows that we must find some other legal way to warn them about services that are not fit for purpose.
Sony has revealed a new lighter version of its PlayStation Vita handheld console. Unveiled at a press event in Tokyo, the new version is 20% thinner and 15% lighter, and will use a cheaper LCD screen rather than the original's OLED display, adding an extra hour to the battery life. The unit also comes with 1GB of built-in storage.The redesigned console will come in a range of six colours and is aimed at casual users. Only the Japanese launch date – 10 October – has been announced so far, with a price point of 18,980 yen (£120, $190). The machine will be accompanied by a new 64GB memory card. Several new software titles were unveiled to accompany the redesign, including Phantasy Star Nova, a new addition to the classic role-playing adventure series.The Vita 2000 will come in six coloursThe name of the redesign, PS Vita 2000, continues Sony's naming convention with its handheld updates. When the company updated its previous PSP console in 2007, it was named the PSP 2000. It was also a huge success, significantly boosting sales of the platform.It's clear the move has been timed to coincide with the launch of the PlayStation 4 console, which can use the Vita as a 'second screen' or extra controller. Vita owners are also able to play PS4 titles remotely via their home's Wi-Fi connection, allowing console gaming when the main TV is in use.Rumours persist that Sony is considering a bundle deal featuring both the PS4 and the Vita, but no announcements have been made. However, with the Tokyo Game Show taking place later this month, further revelations are expected.
Apple's invitation to an event at its Cupertino headquarters on Tuesday promises to "brighten everyone's day". Shown via satellite link in Europe it will, for the first time, also be shown to a select group of guests in China.Even though the iPhone maker has said nothing about what is ahead, its vast supply chain in China has leaked enough details over the past few months that seasoned observers feel sure about what Apple has in store. There will be a top-end "iPhone 5S", looking like last year's iPhone 5, in black, white and "champagne" – a cross between gold and beige – which may include a fingerprint sensor for unlocking, and double-speed video capture.And then there will be a cheaper "iPhone 5C" – with the same screen size as the iPhone 5, but with a tough plastic back, and in multiple colours, including strawberry red, blue, lime green, yellow and white. Those colours are how it aims to "brighten"; that, and the new iOS 7 software, designed by Sir Jonathan Ive, which brings more primary colours to the fore.It will be the first time Apple has introduced more than one phone at a time. But Apple is at a crossroads. The share price is down from $700 a year ago to $500 (£320) with its arch-rival Samsung eating into its profits.Only two central details have not been leaked: the price of the so-called 5C, and whether Apple has finally tied up a deal with China Mobile, the world's largest mobile telecoms company with 745 million subscribers. (The US has 254m in total.) Those two details, analysts think, will decide whether Apple actually has bright or dark days ahead."Whatever they do, they aren't going to offer a cheap iPhone," said Ben Wood of the analysts CCS Insight. "That isn't compatible with the brand. But I think that if you look at the price of the iPhone&nbsp;4 in the UK, it will probably be the same as that." The iPhone 4, introduced in June 2010, is still selling well in the US and UK because carriers can offer it free with a contract.On "prepay" – without a contract – the cheapest iPhone 4 is £319 in Britain, or $450 in the US. Compared to the average price of smartphones around the world, that is high. Outside the US, prepay is about half of all phone sales; but Apple is in effect locking itself out of that market by its pricing.That leaves Apple with a dilemma, according to Benedict Evans of Enders Analysis. "The US contract phone pricing structure today effectively puts a lower limit on the viable price for a contract smartphone. The iPhone 4 and similar high-mid range Android phones are sold as 'free' on contract; phones whose list price is actually much lower are sold at the same price. A $200 phone is sold to consumers at the same price as a $400 phone – and hence is uncompetitive."If Apple sold a $300 iPhone in the US, the carriers would simply keep the extra $100 that they charge customers for themselves – and Apple's margins are eroding already, with the average selling price of the iPhone dropping to $581 in the second quarter of this year, from $613 in the previous quarter and an average of $634 since 2009. But a $300 iPhone could sell in huge numbers outside the US and boost profits.For Apple, maintaining or growing its market share matters not just for profits, but to keep third-party developers writing apps for the iPhone before others. That leads to a virtuous circle where people buy iPhones because they can get early access to popular apps, and developers see fast take-up.But the rise of Android, used on 52% of the smartphones in the US, against 40% for the iPhone according to ComScore, means that some developers are considering writing apps for Google's platform first, making Apple second choice – a status it wants to avoid.Though Apple's sales are rising annually and the iPhone is still profitable, the whole market is growing faster, especially in China, where Android phones (without Google's services) have about 90% of the market. The world market for smartphones willincrease 40% to pass 1bn this year, according to research company IDC. The more Android phones there are, the more likely developers are to write apps for it first.Nor is Android the only threat. Windows Phone, from Microsoft, is also winning first-time smartphone buyers, who are upgrading from "feature phones" which do not have internet capability. Data from Kantar WorldPanel ComTech last week suggested that Android made up about 70% of sales across Europe and Asia, while Apple has strongholds in Britain, France and Australia. Microsoft is winning new users in lower-cost countries such as Mexico, where it outsold iPhone in the past 12 weeks.And Microsoft is sure to renew its focus on business customers, where it could offer Windows software for the desktop, mobile and backroom systems.A China Mobile deal could make much of that less relevant. Until now, the carrier's unique signal encoding and demands on revenue shares have stymied a deal. Rumours that Tim Cook has been to the country, and the fact that Tuesday's announcement will be shown in Beijing as well, suggests that Apple is making a deal – and that the next iPhones will be on sale there before Christmas. "There used to be a wait of a few months before Apple launched their latest products in China, but nowadays, China is too important for Apple and so it will be the first batch of markets," a source at one Chinese carrier told Reuters."It's a very good direction that Apple is launching its latest model so soon in China when its brand attraction is on the decline," Nicole Peng, an analyst at Canalys, told Reuters. "It is a sign that they value the Chinese consumers."The bright colours of the new iOS 7 software, shown off to Apple developers in June, are expected to be popular with Asian customers. But another Asian trend – towards larger screens dubbed "phablets" because they are a cross between a phone and a tablet – is unlikely to be followed. While Apple is reported to be testing iPhones with larger screens, and developer sources say that the iOS 7 software is suitable for larger screens, nobody is expecting an Apple "phablet" on Tuesday. "I think that there's enough pent-up demand for 'new' iPhones even if they're the same price as the old iPhone 4," said CCS Insight's Wood. "It will feel like a new device. And that's what people want."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Japanese PS4 release date to be announced next week | MCVThis would have been inconceivable a few years ago:It's been easy to forget amongst the launch excitement that PS4 has yet to be dated in Japan.That will all change next week, with confirmation that SCE Japan will host a press conference on Monday September 9th at 7am UK time. It is expected that the console's launch date for the territory will be revealed at that time.I can't imagine that it'll be before the US launch on 15 November, highlighting the decline in importance of Sony's native market. It used to be that Europe would see new machines arrive up to a year after their Japanese premiere.Halo dev calls MGSV female character design disgusting | GameSpot.comAnother sexism row in the games industry, this time over MGSV's female character design:Halo designer David Ellis has spoken out regarding Hideo Kojima's recent announcement that the Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain character Quiet has been specifically designed to be "sexy."David'sinitial tweetread: "Don't care if this gets me in trouble. This character design is disgusting. Our industry should be better thanthis."He followed it up with, "Industry full of man babies. Ugh."In a string of tweets earlier this week, Kojima said he directed MGSV's art director to make some of the game's characters, including Quiet, "more erotic" in an effort to encourage cosplay and promote figurine sales. He has since clarified these tweets, saying "sexy" was a better word to use.Oh that'sokaythen.First Xbox One TV ad features no games | GamesIndustry InternationalOh no theydidn't:Microsoft has added the first North American Xbox One television ad to its official YouTube channel, and surprisingly, it doesn't feature any games. Instead, the 30-second spot is focused on the NFL on Xbox One initiative, which lets users watch games while receiving personalized fantasy football updates on the edge of the screen, or while using Skype video chat.And here it is:Football!Unity support for Xbox One will ensure devs can "go crazy" with the hardware | The Official MagazineOh wait, here's some games stuff – Unity support is coming to Xbox One, which these days is a crucial element in a console's indie push:Will Unity's Xbox One support be as simple as a new export button for the existing interface, we asked? "That will pretty much be how it works from a technical perspective," Helgason assured. "There is the toolset that we have been working on for many years that supports many platforms. From a technical perspective the idea is that you work on your game once and then you can bring it to any platform."But we also make sure you can really make use of the hardware. So if you're running a really high-end device, you want to go crazy with shaders, you want to go crazy with particle systems, you want to really use what is there."Depending on which platform there are different costs, but the fundamental thing is that the tools themselves are the same," he continued. "And once you build what you want to build you can just export it directly. So now we're adding, in collaboration with Microsoft, Xbox One support later this year and we also worked with them to make the Windows store export free."Nintendo could be on a 'path to irrelevance', says Atari founder | CVG UKNolan Bushnell has questioned NIntendo's business model before, but he was at it again last week:Atari Founder Nolan Bushnell fears that Nintendo could be on a "path to irrelevance".Bushnell had yet more harsh words for Nintendo during a recent interview with BBC, in which he questioned the future of dedicated gaming portables and the console market as a whole."I don't think handheld game-only devices make sense anymore," said Bushnell. "Not when you have an iPod or an Android microtablet," he added."When it comes to the console market, I think the market is truncating," Bushnell went on. "Nintendo always had a soft spot for young people - they sort of did the 12-and-under pretty well, and the other guys did the 12-and-over."And now I think the other [consoles] are good enough on those things, and the rush to upgrade from the 12-and-under is not nearly as important."This is, of course, from the man who departed Atari at the height of its success to open a series of novelty fast food restaurants.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOver one-fifth of people use ad-blocking software—and it's beginning to hurt &gt;&gt; QuartzArecent report(PDF) from PageFair, a service that websites can use to measure the extent of ad-blocking, sheds some light on just how afflicted those sites are.  Based on data from 220 clients, PageFair found an average ad-blocking rate of 22.7%. It estimates that one of its "typical" clients, with a 25% block rate, loses about $500,000 a year due to ad blockers. Based on data from a small sample of clients, PageFair says ad blocking is growing at 43% every year.Perhaps unsurprisingly, websites where ads are most often blocked tend to cater to the technologically savvy: Gaming sites had their ads blocked by one of every three visitors, technology sites by one of every four. For travel websites, by contrast, the figure was only 5% (chart below):If you use ad-blocking software: what would you do if your favourite site (whichever it is) took countermeasures against ad-blocking? (Ars Technica experimented once by showing a blank page.)Third to a billion &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu:Android is the third platform to reach a billion users (Although activations are not users, I'm assuming that usage is not far behind and the cumulative sales figures I gather are roughly comparable). The first was Windows and the second was Facebook. Apple sold around 650m to 700m iOS and is expected to be the fourth to a billion sometime next year. (Separately, iTunes reports 575m account holders.)If we define the Race To a Billion to be bounded by a time limit of 10 years, then Windows does not qualify and Android is actually second. The race is shown in the following graphs (the one on the left is logarithmic scaled, the one to the right includes only a few contenders for illustrative reasons).BlackBerry Messenger for iPhone submitted to the App Store two weeks ago &gt;&gt; 9to5MacSources say that the BBM for iPhone application is nearly identical to the version on the BlackBerry Z10, but lacks a couple of unspecified features.While BBM has been in review for 2 weeks, Apple tells developers that it has been approving 99% of submitted apps within 5 business days:Puzzling. And where's the Android version?On the NSA &gt;&gt; The Daily DotMatthew Green is a cryptographer and a professor at Johns Hopkins University:It should be extremely difficult to weaken a standard without someone noticing. And yet the Guardian and NYT stories are extremely specific in their allegations about the NSA weakening standards.The Guardian specifically calls out the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) for a standard they published in 2006. Cryptographers have always had complicated feelings about NIST, and that's mostly because NIST has a complicated relationship with the NSA.Here's the problem: the NSA ostensibly has both a defensive and an offensive mission.Pinterest and Path to battle over letter "P" logo trademark &gt;&gt; TechCrunchAre the Path and Pinterest logos too similar? Path apparently thinks so. The mobile messaging startup is currently working to prevent Pinterest from acquiring the trademark to the letter "P" as a stylized design. The U.S. trademark office allowed Pinterest's trademark registration on this proposed design mark, but recently Path asked for an extension in order to file an opposition.Microsoft is copying the wrong company &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott thinks it should copy Google:Looking back on the PC era, Microsoft won because the hardware became commoditized and many partners created many different kinds of PC, giving customers great choice. Apple's system, the Mac, was relegated to also-ran status.With today's smart phone and tablet markets, the same situation is repeating, but this time it is Android that is relegating Apple's system, iOS, to also-ran status. What's changed is that Android has grown quickly simply because it is free and infinitely malleable. Unlike Windows. Unlike iOS.With Android and perhaps with Chrome OS, Google is attempting—and perhaps succeeding—at rendering Windows irrelevant. Which it sort of already is. Metro has gotten off to a slow start, obviously, and there hasn't been a major new Windows desktop application in years. You couldn't name one if you tried.The question of why Microsoft is emulating Apple's structure, rather than Google's, is indeed puzzling.WTF Visualizations &gt;&gt; TumblrTagline: "Visualizations that make no sense". Accurate.Say hello to the hideous new USB 3.0 cable your new smartphone or tablet will come with &gt;&gt; Android BeatStefan Constantinescu:What you're looking at above is the new microUSB connector that your next phone and tablet will likely come with, assuming you buy a flagship phone.Is it nasty? Yes, it's hideous, and it's going to make coming home at night and trying to plug in your phone that much more complicated of a procedure. Can you use your current microUSB charger with these new microUSB 3.0 ports? Yes, but you're really going to have to pay attention to where you're sticking the cable in so you don't do any damage.Flagship phone but not run-of-the-mill phone. Compatbility FTW. The dual plug has already been on portable hard drives for some time. Using it on phones will be a fascinating stress test of the plug design.Computing's future Is not on your wrist &gt;&gt; Daily IntelligencerKevin Roose wanted to like the Samsung Galaxy Gear, but couldn't:I couldn't rationalize a defense of the Samsung smartwatch for one giant, insurmountable reason. Namely: The wrist is a terrible place for a computer.But he sees potential:The future of wearable computing, if it arrives, will be found in devices that free us from tactile input altogether. It will be computers that exist in glasses, that allow us to voice-command our surroundings, that connect our shoes and pants and belts into one giant, data-collecting technological exoskeleton. It will be computers that work with our natural movements, rather than simply putting a computer onto a body surface and requiring us to interact with it in the same old way.Yes, you can disrupt the wristwatch — putting a new spin on a 100-year-old technology. You could also disrupt the quill pen. But why?Executive Class &gt;&gt; Some fool notionEd Jefferson:You might think that Waterloo &amp; City Line couldn't even have a Myers-Briggs Type, being a tunnel in London with some trains in it, but you'd be wrong. Whilst the normal way to establish a Myers-Briggs Type is get someone to fill in a questionnaire, it's apparently possible touse a sample of text to analyse the personality of the author. And while the Waterloo &amp; City Line didn't have much to say for most of its 115 year history, for the last couple of years, it, and all the other London Underground lines,have been tweeting. So I used samples of each line's tweets to discover what kinds of personalities they have.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Yey, it's Monday! What are you up to?
Age:Brand spanking new.Appearance:You'll have to wait and see.Until when?Until Tuesday ,when the new phone is launched at Apple's California headquarters.Isn't it just going to look like an iPhone?Yes, but somehow more so.How more so?Well, the word is – and these are just rumours, so you didn't hear it from me, yeah? – that the 5C will be available with a range of brightly coloured casings.They already sell different coloured cases down the market.This is the casing itself – it doesn't come off. Leaked pictures suggest the colours will include blue, pink, yellow, white – possibly others. We just don't know yet!Mine has Stewie from Family Guy on it.  Will they be doing one of those, do you think?I don't have any information about that at  this time.It's funny because he has a balloon coming  out of his mouth saying: "What the deuce are you looking at?"Forget about cases. The real point of the 5C isn't the casing – it's the price.How much will it cost?No one knows.I give up. What's the point of doing a Pass  Notes if you haven't got any answers?Tech-savvy commentators predict that the 5C will be launched as a budget phone alongside a new flagship model, the flashier and considerably more expensive 5S.Why have two?The 5C is probably aimed at the Chinese market, where cheap domestic models currently dominate. In the US and Europe, where smartphones are usually offered free with a lengthy contract, price is less of an issue. There is even some speculation that the 5C will be a China-only model.Sounds like a pretty straightforward, uncontroversial product.You'd think so,  butthere are already allegations of  unacceptable working conditions at the American-owned factory in China where the  new phones are being manufactured.Apple says it is investigating.Do say:"The C might stand for 'colourful',  or it might stand for 'China' – we just don't  know yet!"Don't say:"I think the C stands for  'cheap labour'."
In a dusty schoolroom in Kade, a small town 75 miles from Accra, the capital of Ghana, 40-odd children sit on rickety wooden benches, in front of equally rickety desks. Kade has a population of 16,500, and its main business is the local mine: a rich source of gold and diamonds. These children don't see a lot of the mine's produce, but in front of them , on those rickety desks, sits something unexpected and of potentially greater value in the long term: brand new e-readers.Since 2010,Worldreader.org, a not-for-profit organisation, has been distributing e-readers to schools in Africa and Europe. The project was born out of a 2009 family holiday.  Seeing a locked library building in a small town, founderDavid Risherrealised it was cheaper and more effective to supply e-readers than paper books in the sort of quantities that are required for education. Once the gadgets have reached their destination, it costs almost nothing to keep them stocked with educational materials, and teachers consider them less distracting than laptops or tablet computers. They can also be used to display local material, including newspapers, health and voting information.In October 2010, Worldreader delivered 550 3G and Wi-Fi Kindles to primary- and high-school children in the Kade region – one for every child in six schools. They trained the teachers to use the devices, and the teachers trained the kids. Pre-installed on the e-readers were public domain study books, as well as novels provided free by local and international publishers. And as of this summer, Worldreader has put over 662,008 ebooks into the hands of 4,300 children in sub-Saharan Africa – and research shows they now read more, and read better. As one teacher in Kade noted: "Before, it was difficult to get books. Now we will have as many as we want."
Price £1,395MPG 110Top speed 28mphJust as you can't explain  a joke to someone without a sense of humour, so you can't describe the appeal of a tinyTomosto anyone who takes life too seriously. It's  a beyond-basic moped from Slovenia which hasn't changed much in 60 years. It should probably have been parked years ago in the bay marked: Noisy, Dangerous and Stoopid. But this chortling, splurting, juddering little moped has been winning over our hearts (and wallets – it costs just £1,395) for decades. And now, after a gap of more than 30 years, you can once again buy the timorous wee beastie in Britain.One of the many reasons why children have more fun than adults is that they can truly live in the moment. They are happy because they are on that trampoline and how high they're bouncing is all they can think about. Adults, however, would be bouncing but they'd also be thinking about pelvic floors, failing pensions and, oh, that guttering looks full from up here. But a Tomos has the gift of making it impossible to think about anything else. When you feel its feisty 49cc air-cooled two-stoke engine putter into life beneath your buttocks, its chopperlike handlebars start to vibrate violently in your hands and you surge out into the traffic… Certain death seem so imminent that savouring your last few moments of life on a Tomos becomes all consuming.To add to this sense of merriment, Tomos UK is importing baby blue mopeds and minty green ones (it will do a "shadow black", but I'd say that would only be for people who refuse to wear paper hats at Christmas).There is no ignition, the bike doesn't have a battery and starts with a push of its pedals – you can actually ride it very slowly as a bicycle using the pedals. In theory you might need to add some leg power to aid the trifling engine up the steepest of hills, but I rode up Crystal Palace hill in south London and it put in a heroic Chris Froome-like performance. It's an automatic and has two gears with a top speed of about 28mph – which feels fast enough. It weighs in at 57kg and it'll do more than 100 miles to the gallon. I filled it up and it cost a whopping £2.40 at the pump. It's congestion-free and the road tax is £17. You can ride it on a driver's licence if you passed before 2001 – otherwise you will need to pass your CBT and be over 16. It's sturdily built, as if it has every intention of being here in another 60 years. It's Tomos the tank engine.I have never been on a vehicle that has provoked such goodwill from my fellow road users. It turned my seven-mile commute into a sea of waves, grins, thumbs-up signs and marriage proposals… not quite, but you get the picture. When I got home I&nbsp;thought I'd better wheel it through to the back garden for its own security, but then – brimming withjoie de vivre– I&nbsp;decided to ride it through the house, round the kitchen, down the back steps on to the patio and across the garden. Yee-haaing all the way.  Adult behaviour? No, it must have been the Tomos factor.For more information, go totomosgb.comThinking outside the boxHappy campers: Mini's unusual take on camping.Earlier this summer, Mini unveiled three unique camping concepts which are designed to appeal to people who enjoy the outdoors, from festival goers to campers alike. There's the Clubvan Camper, the Cowley and the Countryman ALL4 Camp and each highlight Mini's creative use of space in their own way and all three have their own distinct Mini touches. The Clubvan Camper is the world's smallest luxury camper van; the Cowley is a compact yet comfortable caravan for two people, equipped with a twin-ring gas stove, fridge and sink; and the Countryman ALL4 Camp with its innovative roof-top tent is the getaway car for an adventurous couple. All are just concepts at the moment, but as you can see from this picture, they'd be a brilliant addition to the Mini line-up.Thoughts on the E-Type JaguarLast week I reviewed the newF-Type from Jaguar, but almost all the emails I received were from people very happy to linger a little longer on the legendary E-Type. Here's one typical letter from Mark Styring, which sums up how we all felt about the old car:Hello Martin, I enjoyed your article on the F-Type, but I really do feel you should have compared it with the competition, rather than with the incomparable E-Type. The cars were, after all, conceived 50 years apart.Most of the other automotive press say that the "F" is there or thereabouts compared with the current offerings from the usual suspects. I'm glad everyone seems to like it, and I would sign up myself if I had a spare 60K+ burning a hole in my pocket. However, I bought a Toyota GT86 this year, and am looking forward to a long-term relationship with it.In 1961, though, the E-Type was so far ahead of anything else in the world, that, if the competition weren't embarrassed, they should have been. I can just imagine in my mind's eye Enzo Ferrari kicking his engineers in the culo all the way up and down Modena High Street when he came home from that year's Geneva Motor Show. Still, he was spot-on about the E-Type's aesthetics.There were road cars which were about as fast, but they were three times more expensive to buy, were far more temperamental, and drank rather more fuel.There were touring cars which were as comfortable, but they struggled to get past 100 mph.There were American cars which could get to 60mph faster in a straight line: just don't ask them to stop any time soon, or get round a bend without the tyres squealing.There were cars with neater roadholding and handling, but the E would catapult past them on the straights.I guess I am getting towards old fartdom, with which you associate traditional Jag. fans in your article, but I've thus far managed to avoid the angina pills. If you want an E with a thoroughbred exhaust note, just fit it with a two-inch straight-through system. Everything else with multiples of six sound like coffee grinders. The founder of Jaguar wouldn't have anything to do with V8s, as they are inherently unbalanced and unrefined. Same goes for V6s. The reason they are using them now has more to do with cost than engineering. As for diesel, it's one of the few things I agree with Jeremy Clarkson on. The fuel of Satan.My dream moment of the sixties which I never lived ? Driving down the A45 past Coventry at full-chat in an E-Type with Green Onions on the audio system.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visittheguardian.com/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
When the news broke last week thatRonald Coase, the economist and Nobel laureate, had died at the age of 102, what came immediately to mind was Keynes's observation that "practical men, who believe themselves to be quite exempt from any intellectual influences, are usually the slaves of some defunct economist". Most of the people running the great internet companies of today have probably never heard of Coase, but, in a way, they are all his slaves, because way back in 1932 he cracked the problem of explaining how firms are structured, and how and why they change as circumstances change. Coase might have been ancient, but he was certainly not defunct.As an economics student at the LSE in the 1930s, Coase was puzzled by the fact that economic theory ignored the workings of the firms that make up the economy. Economists were obsessed with the big picture – the way prices act as Adam Smith's "invisible hand", bringing supply and demand into equilibrium. But like Edwardian aristocrats disdaining "trade", they seemed blandly uninterested in the ways in which businessmen actually made decisions. "What is studied," Coase observed, "is a system that lives in the minds of economists but not on Earth."So he got a scholarship and went to the US to examine how companies actually worked. The thing that puzzled him was this: economic theory postulated that the market provided the most efficient way of co-ordinating economic activity, and yet no large company seemed to use the price mechanism as a way of co-ordinating its internal activities. Instead, big corporations operated as command-and-control mini-economies of the kind despised by economists. How come?"I found the answer," Coase recalled in his1991 Nobel lecture, "by the summer of 1932. It was to realise that there were costs of using the pricing mechanism… There are negotiations to be undertaken, contracts have to be drawn up, inspections have to be made, arrangements have to be made to settle disputes and so on. These costs have come to be known as transaction costs. Their existence implies that methods of co-ordination alternative to the market, which are themselves costly and in various ways imperfect, may nonetheless be preferable to relying on the pricing mechanism, the only method of co-ordination normally analysed by economists."It sounds simple, but it was a groundbreaking insight because it explained why, for example, companies often became vertically integrated as they grew. Transaction costs are why a manufacturer of car tyres would come to own and operate rubber plantations in some fetid tropical country; not because its executives want to farm rubber, but because the transaction costs of not owning the supplier are higher than the costs of operating it themselves.But transaction costs explain more than just how firms operate: they also help to determinewhatis produced. "If the costs of making an exchange are greater than the gains which that exchange would bring," Coase wrote, "that exchange would not take place and the greater production that would flow from specialisation would not be realised. In this way, transaction costs affect not only contractual arrangements, but also what goods and services are produced. Not to include transaction costs in the theory leaves many aspects of the workings of the economic system unexplained, including the emergence of the firm, but much else besides."Coase first outlined his discovery in a lecture at Dundee University in October 1932. He was 21 years old. His paper, The Nature of the Firm, wasn't published until 1937, though, and seems to have been largely ignored for the next half-century for reasons that only those familiar with the perversities of academic disciplines can fully understand. Whatever the explanation, the fact remained that Coase's great insight languished in relative obscurity until the internet arrived and began to wreak its havoc on the industrial system.The thing about the net, you see, is that it reduces transaction costs, sometimes by significant amounts. The effect is not uniform and some components of transaction costs (for example the legal hassles implicit in contracts)often remain. But overall, the impact of the net on transaction costs has been dramatic. So, in a way, Coase was the spiritual godfather of legions of enterprises that would have been unthinkable in a pre-internet world. IncludingLinux, the open source operating system created by legions of hackers who rarely, if ever, meet face to face and yet who have created one of the wonders of the networked world. The symbol for Linux, by the way, is a penguin, which explains the title of Yochai Benkler's seminal essay on Linux,Coase's Penguin. So much for defunct economists.
The team behind platformerRaymanhave achieved a feat withLegends, not only trumping their former creation – 2011's celebratedRayman Origins– but putting their titular hero's long-running series into the same league as some of the best work by genre giants, Mario et al.At the core ofRayman Legends's creative brilliance is its level design. An abundance of 2D playgrounds deliver an inspired range of inventive challenges that prove the platformer genre can still surprise. Each stage also conceals myriad secrets, and is realised with a lavishness of detail rarely seen in the medium.Rayman Legends's illustrated backdrops are exquisite, rivalled only by its knack for combining&nbsp;music and action, which it does with humour and grace.At worst, mechanically, one might begrudge the fact thatLegendsis relatively similar to previous iterations, although the distinct Wii U version does introduce ample new touchscreen elements. One of the year's best games so far.
Probably unintentional, butLost Planet 3actually does a pretty good job of simulating the life of a megacorporation employee stuck on a forbidding ice planet. Dull, repetitive, meaningless, and with the potential to drive you a little insane,Lost Planet&nbsp;3is ostensibly a flashback by the protagonist on his deathbed, so I'm lost as to why he includes details like the time he bought a barrel extension for his shotgun. Maybe it's for a bit of colour, to liven things up.The ambition here was the video game equivalent of a summer blockbuster, full of set pieces, explosions and sci-fi cliches. Sadly the result is a linear and pedestrian experience that's entirely borrowed from other, better works and feels like design by numbers. Stereotypical cast? Check. Arbitrary side quests? Check. Quicktime events? Check. Tacked-on multiplayer? Check. Cold and unoriginal, even the aformentioned employees will find little stimulation here.
Plants vs Zombies' entertaining twist on tower defence, a horticultural arsenal acting as a barricade against the oncoming undead horde, now has a sequel –Plants vs Zombies 2(PopCap, iOS). It's gone down the free-to-play route, but, while much of the charm is still intact, some hefty repetition is required if you want to avoid shelling out.Complete the first world and you'll either need to pay to unlock the next or go back and replay sections to win stars. This is spiced up with some variety in the challenges, but, despite the addition of some fun new weapons and power-ups, the feeling of being driven to spend money is ever present.Blackbar(£1.99, Neven Mrgan, iOS) has created some debate over its status as "game"; nevertheless, it's a fabulously inventive interactive story with a point to make about censorship. Made up entirely of typed letters between Kenty, a recent employee of the department of communication, and old friend Vi Channi, it challenges you to work out the redacted words, hidden by black bars. Whether it's a game seems irrelevant: it's a brilliant use of the iPhone's capabilities.
On its debut in 1990, the originalCastle of Illusionproved that Mickey Mouse could make it as at least a competent host of a platform game, offering up an adventure that was well received at the time and that would become an object of much nostalgic affection.A widespread fondness that has prompted this reboot from Sega. The good news is that the newCastle of Illusionis a solid platforming game that ably treads the fine line between reworking of, and respect for, the source material. Set in the eerie realm of spells in which Mickey often finds himself, the remake is eye-catching and imaginative, but it lacks the sheer quality of, for example,Rayman Legendsand is also slightly let down by loose controls and a certain lack of physicality in his 2D kingdom.NonethelessCastle of Illusionis a commendable game, with enough good&nbsp;ideas to make it a fine alternative to more costly options.
There is an ancient Japanese proverb* that says "you can put the devil on a horse, but he will still be the devil". Meaning you can wrap a prune in bacon, but it'll still be a prune. So if you don't like prunes, you're not going to like devils on horseback. Got it?Well, I feel pretty much the same way about this car. I've never liked the Nissan Juke. Not just because it's a crossover and I'm not a big fan of the whole genre. The Juke is in many ways a very good crossover. But damn, it's ugly.Fair play. It's a distinctive and interesting design, whereas a lot of&nbsp;cars look the same these days. And&nbsp;it passes my drawing test (you&nbsp;might possibly be able to draw one so that someone else would recognise it – there's something of a&nbsp;child's toy car&nbsp;about it).But I simply don't like it. It's too haunchy. Actually more like a toad than a prune, to look at.So where's the bacon, then? Well, this isn't a regular Juke, it's a Nismo, which, as aficionados of the Playstation game Gran Turismo will know, is Nissan's performance division (it actually stands for Nissan Speedy Mofo). Basically, a bunch of techie dudes in white coats have tweaked the 1.6 turbo engine to give it a few more horsepower (197 in total now), with devils on top... OK, maybe it's time to drop the whole festive season canape thing.The suspension is a bit stiffer, and it has 18in alloy wheels, plus bigger bumpers, air intakes, side sills, and red caps on the mirrors. Inside it's been pimped up too, with sports seats picked out in sexy red stitching and a red stripe on the steering wheel. Plus there are buttons that allow you to play with throttle response and a screen that, among other things, shows how many Gs you're pulling. A bit silly, but quite good fun.And it is fun to drive, certainly in a straight line, when it feels like a hot hatchback. Less so on the corners, when it pitches and rolls a bit. That's because, although the techie dudes have sported it up and stiffened it, they haven't lowered it at all. This is still a pretty high ride, and if you've driven something with a Nismo badge around your PlayStation you're going to be disappointed at how (un)engaging it feels.My main problem, though, is still its appearance. If you liked its toadiness before, you're probably going to like this one even more, because it's basically the same only more so, with exaggerated features; it's a Juke caricature. And, for the same reason, if you didn't like it before, there's no hope. I'm never going to like prunes either. Actually, does anyone?* Don't be daft, of course there isn't.Nissan Juke NismoPrice:£19,995Top speed:134mph0-60mph:7.8 secondsCombined fuel consumption (manufacturer's figure):40.9mpgCO2 emissions:159g/kmGreen rating:5/10Cool rating:4/10
Grand Theft Auto is less a videogame franchise, more an interactive cultural barometer. Set in the US but born in Britain, its evolution over the past two decades from a scrappy, pixelated love letter to crime cinema into a fully explorable, high-definition, living, breathing, society-satirising personal playground has created a medium all of its own. The term "open world" has become shorthand for "GTA-like"; the game's control schemes, mission structures and re-branded products (iFruit smartphones, Jugular cars) are gaming tropes in themselves, while the slickly choreographed action has inspired as many films as have influenced it. Crime fiction will eat itself.GTA's vast and action-packed virtual world is frequently more appealing to players than the real one, with 14% of British men admitting they are likely to throw a sickie on the launch day of a new game. Thanks to its gameplay innovations, and helped along by just a hint of controversy, the series has shifted 125 million units since its inception, becoming the fifth biggest-selling videogame franchise of all time.Rockstar Games' co-founder and vice president of creativity Dan Houser has been at the eye of the storm since 1998. Despite having also given the world Red Dead Redemption, Max Payne and LA Noire, the GTA series is where his heart lies. "If you were to love any of your children more, you'd certainly love GTA the most," he smiles. We meet at Rockstar's understated Fulham offices, where the hedonism implied by the company name seems to be secondary to good old-fashioned hard work. "Something like this takes a lot of work and effort, so you'd better be passionate about it. We take every game release very seriously. [For GTA V] we had to liven it up and make our lives unpleasant again.""Livening up" is something of an understatement. Rockstar is known for its meticulous recreations of sprawling cities, technological leaps and military-grade internal security. Grand Theft Auto V arrives after four years of development, a 1,000-page script, months of motion and voice capture, and a process that saw 80 per cent of the ever-growing company – eight international studios and counting – involved in recreating a fully functioning metropolis based closely on Los Angeles. The city, as ever, is the leading character."The single longest process is always creating the world," confirms Houser, revealing that the new Los Santos map is bigger than those of GTA IV, GTA: San Andreas and Red Dead Redemption combined. It's not surprising to learn that he sat geography at Oxford. "We spent a minimum of 100 days in Los Angeles on research trips, probably more," he says of production, which began at the height of the US's sub-prime financial crisis in 2010. "Out and about, all night long with weird people, strange cops showing us around, a lot of first-hand research. We spoke to FBI agents that have been undercover, experts in the Mafia, street gangsters who know the slang – we even went to see a proper prison. These poor buggers in the middle of the salt flat desert, miles away. It was eye-openingly depressing."A tiny chunk of Los SantosThe 39-year-old Londoner has been surveying every last, dusty corner of Los Angeles since 2004's GTA: San Andreas and has become something of an expert on the city's psychogeography in the process. "LA is this embodiment of 20th-century American desires: the houses, the gardens, the tans, all slightly fake. It's the end of the western world – the suns sets and then it's tomorrow. But the industry is movies or, equally phoney, real estate. It's people trying to escape their pasts and reinvent themselves. If GTA IV was a classic New York story, this is the endpoint of the American dream."Houser is a flurry of words and feverish gum-chewing. He's considered and articulate, yet sometimes seemingly on fast-forward, extended pauses followed by an explosion of thoughts and ideas ("I am scattergun to the nth degree," he laughs). We talk for an hour but the transcript runs to more than 10,000 words.Despite Rockstar's sometimes secretive aura, Houser is very direct and has strong views on GTAV's relationship with the movies ("We don't need to hark back to film when technology allows us to produce our own response to real places"), on the lack of playable female characters ("The concept of being masculine was so key to this story") and on game conferences like E3 and Gamescom, which he no longer attends ("You don't play a videogame in a room with 20,000 people doing the same thing unless you're a lunatic").Based in New York, he's part of a creative collective that includes his older brother and Rockstar CEO Sam (whose first big job was working with Pop Idol creator Simon Fuller), producer Leslie Benzies and art director Aaron Garbut, who've all been working on the series together since GTA III in 2001. For the last two games, this core team has also included co-writer Rupert Humphries, son of Barry."I'm surrounded by people with raging OCD, people much more organised and clever than me," chuckles Houser. "I'm so unstructured. People can never come into my office, it's so messy – there's no plan, it's just full of scraps of paper and notes, chaos. I'm always terrified of losing my BlackBerry, as I write things on it that are so vital and I can't type fast enough on an iPhone."BASE jumping: back in a big way in GTA VIt seems that GTA V's magpie-like collage of influences and reference points is very much a reflection of its lead writer's mindset. "So much of the media I consume now comes through the internet. Books, movies, TV shows, games, iPhone games, other rubbish on the go, obsessively and unobsessively. I always say I'm going to sit and play every single game or read all of this great writer or watch all of these movies, and it lasts about three minutes. Then it just goes back into the miasma of rubbish you're plucking out."It's a good analogy of a typical GTA game: a raucous mix of crime-caper thrills, cinematic set-pieces and pop-culture humour culled from the team's collective psyche that also gives the player the option to ignore the tightly woven story if they so wish and venture off-piste at any time. In GTA V's case, this means anything from exploring underwater shipwrecks to playing a few sets of multiplayer tennis in the hugely ambitious, cloud-based GTA Online side show. 2014's next-gen console buzz phrase is the "persistent online world", in which thousands of human-controlled players run around an evolving, narratively driven virtual space; it's fitting that having invented the open-world genre, Rockstar have tackled this new concept before anyone else, too."Like all fiction, games are transportive, yet what makes them unique is that you follow your own eyes through the world," says Houser. "Games are, at one level, a progression on from a film – you jump off a cliff rather than a stuntman jumping off a cliff – but open-world games are actually more than that. It's the being rather than the doing. You're going to see different things than another player, and when you walk up a hill yourself and see the sun setting on the ocean, that's a lot different to me taking a camera up there and making you see it."As for that ambitious plot, you now control three protagonists instead of one, planning and performing elaborate heists as meticulously as anything out of Heat or Drive. You're able to switch between these three characters in real-time as you create your own action set-pieces and personal dramas, an evolving score by Tangerine Dream's Edgar Froese building tension around you. Then there's the usual star-studded radio stations, featuring 240 licensed songs, from Bootsy Collins to Tyler, The Creator. If Rockstar is the director, we're the editor."Having three protagonists allows us to create nuanced stories, not a set of archetypes," says Houser. "Rather than seeming like you've got this super-criminal who can do everything effortlessly, they're all good and bad at different things." It also led to the creation of more rounded, believable characters. "We liked the idea of a protagonist retiring with a family, and how awful that would be. We've never done anything like that and you don't really see it in games - to feed into these concepts of parenting and pseudo-parenting."With the series now able to support such textured storylines, Hollywood's top studios must surely have been enquiring about the film licence? "We've been offered, many times, and it's never appealed," says Houser. "The money's never been close to be worth risking one's crown jewels. Our small dabblings with Hollywood have always left us running back to games. The freedom we have to do what we want creatively is of enormous value. The second you go near Hollywood, people seem willing, or have been forced, to lose a lot of that control. That sort of amorphous 'that won't test well' attitude is exactly how we don't work. We've always tried to think of stuff that's innovative and new, and to go into a world where that's not encouraged would be horrible."Meet the three protagonists of GTA VNow that the global videogame market is worth $67 billion and longform TV dramas are overtaking cinema in the cultural cool stakes, you could argue that there's less reason than ever to jump to the big screen anyway. Grand Theft Auto IV alone made $310m on release day, then a world record for any form of entertainment, including movies."There's still plenty of kudos in doing a film, but you shouldn't ever do anything in your life for kudos," advises Houser. "It's much easier to imagine GTA as a TV series, as the form is closer, but I still think we'd be losing too much to ever actually do it. We've got this big open-world experience that's 100 hours long, and that gives players control over what they do, what they see, and how they see it. A world where you can do everything from rob a bank to take a yoga lesson to watch TV, all in your own time. How do you condense that into a two-hour or 12-hour experience where you take away the main things: player agency and freedom?"He pauses for breath. "We love games and we think we've got something to say in games, and that games have plenty to say. So shouldn't we just continue doing that?" It would be a crime not to.WAR OF THE WORLDSThe gaming landscape is growing more ambitious by the day. Here's what's in store after GTA VDestinyHalo creator Bungie's next sci-fi epic is a first-person "shared world" shooter with a planned 10-year life cycle. It will take place in a huge, always-online universe, populated by thousands of human-controlled characters.The Witcher 3: Wild HuntWith a reported 100 hours of gameplay in the main story alone, CD Projekt RED's ambitious redefinition of the role-playing genre is also attempting multi-strand stories within a gigantic open world. The player's in-game choices have consequences and leave visible marks on the landscape, too – torch an entire village in a fit of rage and it's not coming back anytime soon.Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom PainThe first in Hideo Kojima's acclaimed stealth series to go "open world", this time Snake and friends will face a six-hour day-night cycle and dynamic weather conditions. Kojima says players will be able to take tactical advantage, as they would in real life, by planning missions around a realistic time clock. Under the cover of darkness it is, then.Grand Theft Auto V is out for Xbox 360 and PS3 on Sep 17
The information commissioner has joined police in criticising the decision by a committee of MPs to publish a list of insurance firms, lawyers and finance companies who have used the services of rogue private investigators.Christopher Graham, who is investigating whether the 98 companies have breached data protection laws, has written to Keith Vaz, chair of the home affairs select committee, as he prepares to publish the list on Monday in the face of opposition from police investigating a handful of the firms and individuals involved.Graham said in a statement on Friday: "It's not clever to start a criminal investigation by publishing the names of everyone and everything you're investigating. That's why we've stated we're not publishing the list at this stage, and why I've written to Keith Vaz MP to urge similar patience on the part of his select committee."Vaz has repeatedly asked the Serious Organised Crime Agency – which compiled the list from an investigation into four rogue private detectives – to make it public. Soca and the Metropolitan police – who are investigating nine of the firms involved – have told MPs they are against publication because it could prejudice the investigations.As Vaz prepared to publish next week, Graham added his voice to the police objections. Graham – it is understood – said in a letter on Thursday to Vaz that publication would be unhelpful to his investigation.The chair of the Commons committee gave Soca an ultimatum  this week that they must publish the list by Monday or he would do so. He said the committee had taken legal advice and felt publication was the right thing to do.Five of the firms identified on the list are under investigation by the Metropolitan police's Operation Tuleta, which is investigating computer hacking and other breaches of privacy laws. It emerged on Friday that another four companies are being investigated by detectives within the Met as part of other criminal investigations. The names of these nine companies will be redacted from any publication next week.In a letter on Friday to Vaz, Trevor Pearce, director general of Soca, said he was still against publication despite being issued with an ultimatum by Vaz."As you know, Soca produced and provided the client list to the committee in accordance with Cabinet Office guidelines on the provision and handling of sensitive information in confidence to select committees," he said. "You confirmed on 15 July that the committee would treat the list as confidential. I remain firmly of the view that publishing the list of clients would affect ongoing investigations and enquiries."He said that the fluid nature of investigations meant that those named on the list might be drawn into other criminal investigations. To date five of the firms are being investigated by Operation Tuleta and since July another four firms and individuals who were on the original list crossed over into other  Metropolitan police investigations."The confidential material as presented to and agreed with you should remain confidential," said Pearce.The information commissioner's letter to Vaz is said to be strongly worded.Graham said his primary reasons for objecting to publication  were that it would be unhelpful to his new investigation into the firms.  It is understood that many of the companies and individuals identified by Soca as having used the services of the rogue investigators, who were jailed last year for illegally accessing private data, are not aware that they have been named as clients."It is not helpful to have everyone who is under investigation alerted to that fact so publicly," said a source. The companies were clients of the four private investigators who were jailed last year after a Soca investigation into illegal blagging of information about private individuals. They were identified in 2008 during a Soca investigation known as Operation Millipede.On Monday, Graham said he had begun an inquiry into potential breaches of privacy law by the companies, after being handed the list by Soca last week.Graham's investigation will examine whether the firms broke the Data Protection Act.The information commissioner can bring criminal prosecutions or take action in the civil courts, with fines of up to £500,000 for data protection breaches.• This article was amended on 7 September 2013 to remove the title of Sir from Christopher Graham's name in the standfirst.
Do foxes bark, yelp or scream? A YouTube video by Norwegian comedy duo Ylvis that aims to answer that question is going viral on YouTube.CalledThe Fox, its chorus presents an array of onomatopoeic suggestions, from "ring-ding-ding-ding-dingeringeding" and "joff-tchoff-tchoffo-tchoffo-tchoff" through to "Fraka-kaka-kaka-kaka-kow", sung by an excitable man in a furry onesie.It's part Gangnam Style and part Crazy Frog, and three days after the video's release, it has reached just under 2.2m views on the YouTube channel of broadcaster TVNorge, with US blog Gawker having alreadydeclared it "the song of the summer".Ylvis are brothers Bård Ylvisåker and Vegard Ylvisåker, who've been working together for more than a decade across various live and TV shows in Norway, although they're much less well-known outside their home country.The Fox may be played for laughs, but if it continues its early momentum, it will become the latest Scandinavian success story on YouTube.Swedish gamer Felik Kjellberg'sPewDiePieis currently the most popular channel in the world on Google's video service, with 12.8m subscribers and 2.3bn total views. And that's without ever dressing up as a fox.
The growing apps economy has created nearly 800,000 jobs across Europe in the last five years, and will generate €11.2bn in revenues across the region in 2013, according to areport published by industry trade body ACT.The association, which has backing from Apple, BlackBerry, Facebook and Microsoft among others, hopes the report's claims will persuade policymakers across Europe to take more steps in support of the industry."We know that apps are important, but at some point you have to boil that down to some real, hard numbers so that people get an impression of the scale and stakes," said Jonathan Zuck, ACT's president."We were surprised at how good the numbers were, including the significant role Europe plays in the world economy: nearly a quarter of the global app economy is in Europe."The report – produced with research company VisionMobile and consultancy firm Plum Consulting – claims that globally, apps will generate €51bn of revenues in 2013, with Europe accounting for €11.2bn of that, or 22%.ACT also claims that sales of apps and in-app purchases through app stores will only account for 18% of global apps revenues in 2013, with the rest coming from a mixture of advertising, commerce, external subscriptions and business-to-business sources.The report claims that there are currently 529,000 people in full-time employment directly linked to the app economy across Europe, including 330,000 app developers.However, it claims that another 265,000 jobs have been created indirectly in sectors like healthcare, education and media, where apps are increasingly prominent. "The economic impact goes beyond the revenue and jobs being generated directly from the industry," said Zuck.In the UK specifically, the report claims that 40% of organisations involved in developing apps are one-man operations, while 58% employ up to five people. It also points out that 35% of UK app developers are earning less than $1,000 a month from their work.Zuck said ACT is trying to do more than celebrate the growth of the apps industry so far in Europe: it wants to nudge politicians across the region into doing more to support the emerging market.Among its suggestions: opening up more government data for developers to work with; releasing more spectrum for wireless services; reforms to intellectual property and communications legislation to boost the European single market; and "ensuring a flexible and supportive business environment for startups and entrepreneurs".Deregulation, then? "It's not necessarily a deregulatory agenda, it's more about refining things, and incorporating the subtle gradations that currently exist," said Zuck.For example? "Healthcare, where a lot of the apps that are becoming available blur the line between healthcare and medical care, in terms of how you define what represents a medical device subject to regulation," he said.ACT is keen to see more European apps startups make the leap from small, bootstrap-funded companies to the next level of scale and investment, with its report intended to engage policymakers in that debate too."Europe has always been full of innovative thinking. Where it's fallen down, if you will, has been in bringing those things to market: taking things out of the laboratory and into the market, which has some ties to labour flexibility, some to access to capital, fragmented markets etc," said Zuck."But one of the things about the app economy is the way the app stores have created such a low barrier of entry to the market, coupled with access to a global market and a well-defined monetisation model. The bridge from invention to commercialisation is a lot smoother, and that's why Europe is showcasing so well."Europe accounts for 22% of global apps revenues according to ACT's reportAs an example, Zuck was accompanied to this morning's UK launch of ACT's report by Casper Woolley, the British chief operating officer and co-founder of taxi-hailing app Hailo, which is currently generating annual revenues of more than $100m."We started off back at the end of 2010 with a developer, three taxi drivers and three tech entrepreneurs, and now we're employing 126 people," he said, before returning to the theme of how European governments can help startups like Hailo."What we care about most is near-harmonisation, so we can provide a uniform service that allows us to scale quickly, and then there is a second layer which varies by industry," he said."That is the way mobile technology is simply changing the world and creating a new dynamic that old regulations didn't take into account when they were written. We think there's a way to work through that, to move from the old to the new without destroying everything in your path."Some politicians are already talking the kind of talk ACT wants to hear in response to the report. "In a time of unemployment, the app economy gives me a lot of hope," said digital agenda commissioner Neelie Kroes at the report's launch event in Brussels on Wednesday."The growth of apps made in Europe is an example of what happens when you create a borderless open economic environment. Now we need to bring that philosophy, and the jobs it enables, to other parts of the digital ecosystem. We now need better networks and a single market to support the further success of apps.At the UK event two days later, parliamentary under secretary of state for culture, communication and creative industries Ed Vaizey was upbeat about the report's findings too. "The speed of innovation and job creation in the "App Economy" is truly amazing," said Vaizey."Tens of thousands of people across the UK, and nearly 800,000 people across Europe, are now working in this exciting sector which brings wide benefits to consumers of all ages. I look forward to seeing Britain play a leading role in the next stage of development."The report's emphasis on job creation as well as revenues is intended to prod politicians to go further than sitting back and merely watching the apps industry, though."This report was intended to raise the stakes. Yes, it's celebratory, but the real issue is by seeing how significant the growth has been in such a short period of time, we begin to scratch the surface of what the potential growth could be," said Zuck.The benefits may go beyond the €11.2bn of apps-related revenues across the EU in 2013 that's forecast in the report. Zuck hopes policymakers will think too about the value created by apps in a host of areas, from productivity benefits in the workplace and innovation in the education sector through to the impact and implications of health-tracking apps.It's not all good news. ACT is also trying to play a role in self-regulation within the apps industry, in response to recent controversies over privacy, including data protection issues within children's apps."We are testing a short-form privacy notice for customers to help them understand what data is being collected and used, so they can make informed decisions about using an app," said Zuck."And we have an initiative with Moms With Apps called 'Know What's Inside' specifically on the children's privacy issue, which is a logo program for better informing parents about what an application is doing, and what its data practices are. We fully recognise we need to be working on these issues aggressively."
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).Call of Duty: Strike Team (£4.99)There have been Call of Duty games for iOS before, but this is Activision's most ambitious yet. Partly with the graphics, which are very impressive, but mainly for its exploration of new gameplay for the first-person shooter series: the ability to switch to a third-person view to co-ordinate your squad at will. In-app purchases for virtual tokens are used on top of the initial download price, if you want to speed up access to new weapons and special abilities.iPhone / iPadCharlie and Lola Me Books (£1.99)Aimed at a younger audience than Call of Duty, it's fair to say. This is a collection of digital Charlie and Lola stories, based on the much-loved books by Lauren Child. One comes free with the download, and others are sold for £1.99 each via an in-app store. And like the existing Me Books app, one key feature here is the ability to draw "hot spots" on the screen and record you and/or your children's narration and sound effects for each story.iPhone / iPadHuman: Move 30 Minutes or More (Free)This is the latest fitness-tracking app, and like Moves, it runs on your iPhone without needing an external gadget to track movement. The app records walking, running and biking, with the aim of getting you moving for 30 minutes or more a day (hence the title), with activities tagged to maps, and served up as stats to show your progress.iPhoneMobento (Free)Mobento is an educational app, but one for adults rather than children. If offers "video learning" drawn from the likes of Ted, NASA, Kahn Academy, Stanford and Yale universities, letting you search by keyword to navigate through the thousands of video lessons available. If you sign up (which is optional), you can download videos to your device too.iPhone / iPad2K Drive (£4.99)This week's other big iOS gaming franchise alongside Call of Duty. 2K Drive is the work of 2K Sports: a racing game that sees you driving a host of licensed cars around the world, and a strong emphasis on social features for competition with friends. As with the new Call of Duty game, this uses a "paymium" model (yes, a real world) in its use of in-app purchases on top of an initial download fee.iPhone / iPadDK Peekaboo! Read-along stories (Free)The first of two new iOS children's apps from book publisher DK this week, it offers digital versions of the company's Peekaboo! pop-up books for babies and toddlers, with virtual flaps to lift up, and mini-games sitting alongside the stories. Said stories – Peekaboo! Farm, Peekaboo! Things That Go and Peekaboo! Playtime – are available as £1.99 in-app purchases, with more to follow.iPadStar Wars Force Collection (Free)It was only a matter of time before someone turned Star Wars into a card-battling game, given the genre's popularity and the plentiful universe of characters in LucasFilm's epic. Published by games firm Konami, this draws on all six Star Wars films, as you collect and battle with your favourite and not-so-favourite characters.iPhone / iPadKakaoGroup (Free)Messaging app KakaoTalk is huge, with more than 100m users. It has also spun off a number of separate apps, with this being the latest. KakaoGroup is a way to chat more privately with groups of people, from friends and family members to colleagues. It also ties in with the main KakaoTalk app, enabling you to invite people in a group chatroom from that to join you in KakaoGroup.iPhoneGiant Boulder of Death (Free)If you've ever played the Katamari games on console or mobile, you'll find some familiar features in this new game from Adult Swim, which runs (well, rolls) with the "great big ball squashing things" formula. Here, you're trying to roll over animals, cars and entire villages, with more than 70 objects to smash and 60 goals to achieve.iPhone / iPadFriendStrip Kids Pro (£1.49)FriendStrip Kids Pro is a storytelling tool for kids based around comic strips. The idea: children shoot scenes in the real world that match the outlines on-screen to create their own comic-style narratives, chosen from more than 85 available – written by "true comic book artists".iPhone / iPadAVG PrivacyFix (Free)Internet security firm AVG is stepping into the debate around online privacy, and the sometimes less-than-transparent settings on social networks. Its new iPhone app works with Facebook, LinkedIn and Google, promising "one dashboard that shows you quickly and easily what you're sharing", and helping you manage those settings from your iPhone.iPhoneShnergle (Free)This has potential, even if it's currently focused on a fairly small geographic area – "London (specifically Hoxton/Shoreditch area)" – with ambitions to expand as it gets more users. It's an app that wants to get people sharing photos of the places they go, which in turn provides others with a stash of recent pics from places "right now, or at a specific time in the last 8 days". And then the developer plans to filter local deals and discounts into that community too.iPhoneChange4Life Smart Restart (Free)It's back-to-school time in the UK, and this app is aimed at parents full of early-termtime joys who want to get their children into a healthy routine. It focuses on five "healthy changes", from kids stretching their legs or eating healthy lunches through to non-screen games, 10-minute activities and alternatives to sweets. The app makes suggestions and tracks your progress.iPhone / iPadGappy's Mystery Letters (£1.99)If you didn't already know it's back-to-school week, you might have guessed by the flurry of new apps for kids. This comes from developer Spinlight Studio, and is for children learning the alphabet, with traceable letter shapes, a mystery game and digital colouring.iPhone / iPadDK's Sophie la girafe read-along stories (Free)This week's second app from DK is based on hugely popular (to the tune of 50m sales) baby teething toy Sophie la girafe. This app is based on the spin-off books, offering stories about Sophie and her friends, as well as counting games and activities. As with the other app, individual stories will be sold as in-app purchases, with parents in control.iPadBestival App powered by Sony Unlimited (Free)Just in time for this week's Bestival music festival in the UK comes this app, offering listings, maps and a Twitter feed of fest-related updates. It's also sponsored by Sony's Music Unlimited streaming service, offering a 30-day free trial of the on-demand service. Although with festival battery life being the issue it is for most smartphone users, that trial might have to wait until you get home.iPhoneRock Prodigy: Learn Guitar (Free)This one's for anyone learning to play guitar: an iPad collection of lessons that listens to your playing, awards points for nailing the right notes, and tracks your progress as you learn to play more accurately and more quickly.iPadFirst Touch Soccer 2014 (Free)One of a flurry of football games competing for attention as the new season gets underway, this comes from the well-regarded First Touch Publishing stable, with a choice of 180 clubs to play and manage, and new controls built from the ground up for the touchscreen.iPhone / iPadDragon Eternity HD (Free)Another game with a distinctly hardcore spin: Game Insight's Dragon Eternity is a massively multiplayer RPG offering an epic storyline, massive battles and, inevitably, the odd flying fire-breathing beast. In-app purchases will fuel your fantasy-themed ambitions, of course.iPhone / iPadDoodle Critter Math: Numbers (£0.69)One more educational children's app to finish off with this week, from an unexpected source: online gaming firm NCSOFT. It's a maths-focused app based around a colourful collection of creatures (sorry, critters), with number tracing, matching, sorting and addition/subtraction mini-games to play and learn from.iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).OS MapFinder (Free)Google? Schmoogle! Just joking, but patriotic Brits may rejoice at the sight of Ordnance Survey Ltd making its way onto Android's Google Play store. Its first Android app offers its OS Landranger and OS Explorer maps of Great Britain for download at (respectively) 1:50,000 and 1:25,000 scale. Overview maps are included for free, with individual regional maps offered as in-app purchases.Bloom.fm (Free)Bloom.fm is a personal radio service, letting you choose a genre or artist to get a stream of similar music chosen from its 22m-song catalogue. If you pay a monthly subscription, you can also download songs to play offline – £1 a month gets you 20, £5 a month gets 200 and £10 a month offers Spotify-style unlimited access.Star Wars Force Collection (Free)It was only a matter of time before someone turned Star Wars into a card-battling game for Android, given the genre's popularity and the plentiful universe of characters in LucasFilm's epic. Published by games firm Konami, this draws on all six Star Wars films, as you collect and battle with your favourite and not-so-favourite characters.Evomail - Modern Mobile Email (Free)Another week, another inventive mobile email app aiming to shake up our inboxes. Or ideally help us get closer to that fabled Inbox Zero. Evomail offers swiping to archive, trash and label messages or just "snooze" them for later reading. Push notifications are built in too, and unlike some competitors, it goes beyond Gmail, supporting Yahoo Mail, Fastmail, Yandex and other services.Music Maker Jam (Free)Magix has been releasing music-making software since long before the apps era. Now it's come to Android with Music Maker Jam, an app to "start playing with music and mixing your own songs" choosing from thousands of loops. Genres covered include Hip Hop, Dance, Electric Jazz and Rock Ballads in the free download, with more (from dubstep to metal) available as in-app purchase packs.ITV Player (Free)This is new and notable, expanding beyond its previous Samsung exclusivity. Is it good? Well, it's fair to say the reviews on the Google Play store are giving broadcaster ITV a bit of a kicking. The app offers its ITV Player catch-up TV service, with shows available for up to 30 days after they've been aired. ITV says that a fix is on the way for some of the problems sparking one-star reviews, too.KakaoGroup (Free)Messaging app KakaoTalk is huge, with more than 100m users. It has also spun off a number of separate apps, with this being the latest. KakaoGroup is a way to chat more privately with groups of people, from friends and family members to colleagues. It also ties in with the main KakaoTalk app, enabling you to invite people in a group chatroom from that to join you in KakaoGroup.Silent Text (Free)Technology company Silent Circle has been in the news recently, aftershutting its encrypted email service"to prevent spying" in the wake of the Guardian's NSA revelations. It still offers other secure communication services, including Silent Text – now available on Android. It's encrypted text messaging with file-transfer features included for files of up to 100MB.KicVidz - Minecraft (£0.64)Kids love Minecraft. Kids love YouTube. There are lots of Minecraft videos on YouTube. BUT... Lots of them are made by adults for adults, with lots of swearing in. Not so good for children. Developer Shane Keller hopes he has the solution, curating a selection of child-friendly Minecraft videos from YouTube and serving them up through this app, grouped in categories including music videos, parkour and survival games.CamCam (Free)iOS app Frontback has become a bit of a craze in the US on iPhone, but it's not yet available on Android. CamCam is aiming to plug the gap with the same idea: you take photos with the front camera of your device, which then also shoots a picture of your face using the back camera, and bundles them together. All hail the rise of "selfie" culture, etc etc.FriendStrip Kids Pro (£0.99)More photography here, but this time for children. FriendStrip Kids Pro is a storytelling tool for kids based around comic strips. The idea: children shoot scenes in the real world that match the outlines on-screen to create their own comic-style narratives, chosen from more than 85 available – written by "true comic book artists".Totem Runner (Free)Chillingo's latest Android game looks very fun indeed: an endless runner where you play a warrior able to "transform at-will into noble creatures including a rampaging rhino, capable of spearing enemies on his horn, a mighty eagle that can soar over deadly hazards, and a fearsome dragon able to vanquish all who stand in its path". Does he have British citizenship? We could do with him in the 100m relay at the next Olympic Games...Change4Life Smart Restart (Free)It's back-to-school time in the UK, and this app is aimed at parents full of early-termtime joys who want to get their children into a healthy routine. It focuses on five "healthy changes", from kids stretching their legs or eating healthy lunches through to non-screen games, 10-minute activities and alternatives to sweets. The app makes suggestions and tracks your progress.FlowDoku (Free)"Imagine Sudoku re-invented as a game of colorful shapes, where you use two simple rules and logic to uncover the linked groups of squares, triangles and diamonds," suggests the Google Play store listing for this inventive puzzle game. It includes more than 250 puzzles to play across five difficulty levels.Prime Mover (Free)There's a lot of interest in fitness apps in 2013, with Prime Mover focusing less on tracking you and more on telling you what exercises to do. It claims to be the "definitive structured bodyweight workout app", with one workout included for free and another eight available as a single in-app purchase bundle, with warm-up and cool-down routines, and tools to see how you're progressing.Bestival App 2013 (Free)Just in time for this week's Bestival music festival in the UK comes this app, offering listings, maps and a Twitter feed of fest-related updates. It's also sponsored by Sony's Music Unlimited streaming service, offering a 30-day free trial of the on-demand service. Although with festival battery life being the issue it is for most smartphone users, that trial might have to wait until you get home.Breach &amp; Clear (£1.28)Looking for a military strategy game to sink your teeth into on Android? Breach &amp; Clear is well worth a look. It puts you in charge of squads including US Army Rangers and Navy Seals across a series of missions, with an emphasis on tactical planning as well as combat.Dragon Eternity (Free)And another game with a distinctly hardcore spin: Game Insight's Dragon Eternity is a massively multiplayer RPG offering an epic storyline, massive battles and, inevitably, the odd flying fire-breathing beast. In-app purchases will fuel your fantasy-themed ambitions, of course.Piqnt Four (Free)Having had to have an intervention with myself on holiday after one too many Dots sessions, I know the power of minimalist colour-based matching games. Piqnt Four is the latest on Android, as you match sequences of colours and trigger bombs and jokers to help clear the screen.MovieCup (Free)Finally, another game that looks to have mainstream appeal. MovieCup is a film trivia game – the Hollywood equivalent of SongPop, if you like – which gets you answering questions and challenging Facebook friends on iOS and Android. Movie buffs will be getting competitive over this in the coming weeks, for sure.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
And lo, Diablo returned after 12 years and the fans were sore afraid, as the enjoyment of a fundamentally brilliant hack'n'slash RPG was sullied by always-online DRM, server crashes and a loot-diminishing auction house. That was the PC release in May 2012. Now Diablo 3's on consoles the question begs: are the forces of hell to be unleashed on internet forums once more?Unlikely. This boasts all the PC version's updates but with its irritations removed; leaving a slicker experience that feels surprisingly natural with gamepad in hand. We're talking offline play, localised multiplayer on a single console for up to four players, and a complete overhaul of how loot is implemented.The auction house is banished to Dante's sixth circle, replaced by an emphasis on finding quality out in the field. There's less loot around but what's available you will mostly want to equip. As in previous games you can always retreat to the town hubs to store loot, trade and heal, but crafting now plays a more significant role, with rare finds broken down into minerals that can be ploughed back into better kit. If anything it possibly works too well, with your character wielding dazzling weaponry from a very early stage.Diablo 3 for console: monster challengeThe game's opening is its weakest section. On normal difficulty – the highest available at the outset – there's a dearth of challenge as you dispatch enemies in manageable numbers with limited attacks. But before long you're battling unholy hordes of deadly foes, furiously hammering the buttons in a desperate attempt to stay alive until the next health globule appears or the cooldown on potion-use expires. Most monsters are enjoyable fodder but you will also encounter conniving adversaries liable to slow you down, buff their accomplices and emerge unexpectedly. Fights are frenetic but button mashing can only take you so far. Learning tactics and prioritising opponents becomes essential, particularly when up against bosses with humongous hit points.Precisely how you fight is radically altered by your chosen class and customisation. There are five classes to choose from. Barbarians are straightforward tanks, joined in the melee by nimbler, fist-fighting monks. Wizards use ranged and defensive spells, while the demon hunter is a purely ranged class deploying duel crossbows like a badass Van Helsing. The most intriguing is the witch doctor, who summons waves of dagger-wielding fetishes or plagues of exploding toads to do his dirty work.As you level up you unlock greater skills, and by the end of the first act you'll boast a full array of abilities mapped to the face keys and triggers. Unlike with previous games, however, specialising isn't fraught with the risk of finality as you can redesign for free at any time. This system isn't one for purists but it allows for much greater experimentation. In Diablo 2 my paladin was effectively committed to a sword- and shield-bashing approach from the off, but here my trusty barbarian Grunhelda was bringing her gargantuan electric battleaxe down upon the head of a stunned fallen one moment before using a poisonous spear to pull an evasive witch towards her the next.Diablo 3 for console: skill selectionYour first playthrough will only take you halfway to the level cap of 60, so this freeform micromanagement only encourages further attempts. The same is true for the randomly generated maps, enemies and treasure, which ensure campaigns do not involve trudging through the same territory.In contrast, the plot offers little replay value. This time you're up against Belial and Azmodan, who won the civil war in hell against Diablo himself. It's earnest nonsense but hard to totally dislike, particularly when baddies boast glorious titles such as "Sepsis the Disembowelled". Unlike Doom, there's occasional talking to the monsters but it adds little. You can't avoid fights, characters lack snappy lines, and when early boss Skeleton King informs you "all will suffer as I have suffered" it's with the tone of one who has endured piles, voice acting being far from the game's strongest card.The surrounding ambience is infinitely better. The music manages to be varied and epic without being distracting, and the score is matched by environments ranging from snowy vistas to creepy churchyards. These form a suitable backdrop for some of the most gruesomely stunning encounters ever committed to gaming. Ably supported by a new physics engine, there's a real sense of weight to your blows and ample opportunity to combine characters for Rube Goldberg-style hijinks. Regardless, it's a fireworks display to have Epcot salivating when an enemy is blinded by a flashbomb before being smashed across the screen and popping like pressurised jam, all while his accomplices burn in their boots as balls of flame rain from the sky.Diablo 3 for console: excellent multiplayerSuch scenes are surprisingly intuitive to implement. Players can drop into your game at any time and you can request companions by region, language and the kind of game you're after, be it simple slaying, PvP or endgame runs. I experienced no lag or connection issues. Controlling characters also feels an improvement upon the PC. You'll no longer suffer the double binding issues that blighted mouse usage and the addition of a right stick with which to evade foes is a boon. Yes, there's some generous auto-targeting, but you'll need it when the screen becomes clogged with 30 foes.Diablo 3 on console is a joy. What some thought a quintessential PC game feels at home in its new format, particularly where stripped of its forebear's annoyances. It may not push the boundaries, but as an old-school action RPG it is unparalleled. In the highly unlikely event that you become bored, there's almost certainly an expansion pack on the horizon.
Ave readers – those of you who bought Total War: Rome II, I salute you! My anticipation for this game could not be contained; the latest in developer Creative Assembly's Total War series, Rome II is also the long-awaited sequel to its most beloved entry and bears no small expectation. In a game about conquest and battles, after all, history offers no finer subject than the Roman empire.There are a lot of ways to play Rome II, which may be one of its underlying problems, but the meat of the game is in campaign mode. After an extended prologue, during which you control the Roman empire while crushing some feeble Samnite opposition, the campaign lets you choose from nine starting factions and then try to take over the ancient world. Will you take Hannibal's Carthage to victory, expand relentlessly as one of several Roman families, or rewrite history as the Gauls?The campaign map is gigantic, encompassing all of Europe and a decent portion of north Africa, and Rome II divides neatly between overarching management of your territory and up-close engagement on the battlefield. The first is turn-based strategic jostling where you manage provinces, muster armies and compete or co-operate with countless other factions. Each province is a loose collection of four cities, one of which is a capital with walls – which means outlying settlements can be attacked relatively easily, but a faction's home base must be besieged and worn down.This aspect of Rome II plays out like Civilization-lite. The previous entry in the Total War series, Shogun II, streamlined its map micromanagement beautifully, but in Rome II there are countless new elements to consider, not all of which are welcome additions.The colour palette for Rome II scales really badly. On the higher settings it looks outstanding, but as soon as you go lower all of the colour bleeds out. Photograph: Creative Assembly/SegaDeveloping provinces is simple: build up a town's military capabilities and advanced troops can be recruited, or develop its farming and fishing infrastructure to increase your growing empire's food and resources. Alongside this you'll be researching new technologies to enhance your civil and military infrastructure, and this side of Rome II makes a lot of sense.But there are further layers. Families within your provinces will cause problems, such as attempting to assassinate their rivals. Rebels will attack undefended towns. A dedicated fishing port might become so unpleasant a place to live that the peasants revolt.All of these sound like interesting factors, but their implementation is poor. Take the rebel armies, for example. These spawn randomly and will fixate upon a town and attack it every turn, despite the garrison being easily able to hold them off. As your empire expands you'll be auto-resolving at least five or six of these battles every turn, where the opponent simply has no chance of winning. It's unnecessary busywork.The real problem is that Rome II has mechanics that offer the illusion of depth, but come undone in practice. Levelling your armies is one of the worst culprits. Both generals and the troops they command will improve over time, becoming more battle-hardened in a manner of your choosing – calloused warriors, for example, or sly strategists. Watching your neophytes grow into a fearsome force is magical, and I grew remarkably attached to the Stantoninus legion. Then I made a mistake. I took on a fight I shouldn't have, deep in enemy territory, and my carefully husbanded army was almost entirely wiped out.This should have been a devastating blow. But then the few survivors made it back to my territory and the army built itself up again, losing none of its experience or traits. The game should have punished me for such a foolish move, but instead after a few turns the dead had been replaced with soldiers of equal quality. So what is the point of this mechanic at all?Rome II also has enormous issues with time management; specifically, it has no respect for yours. The gap between ending your turn and taking another is exceptionally long, and gets larger as you expose more of the map in each game. Rome II cycles through every single town that isn't under your control, even if you turn off the option to watch enemy moves, and you have no option but to twiddle your thumbs for 2 to 4 minutes every time and wait for things to resolve. This is especially egregious when consolidating positions – you want to take a few quickfire turns to finish some research, for example, or build your armies back up, but this will take 10 to 15 minutes of basically watching the game crunch numbers.By far the worst manifestation of this is in the co-op campaign, a feature I'd been incredibly excited to try out with a fellow Total War nut. The gap between turns here is absolutely ruinous and makes this mode pointless – we soldiered through for about an hour in one game before giving up, decided to have another try after the day-one patch, and that time it crashed after a few turns. This was a headline feature of Rome II, but the implementation is a disaster. For every hour I've spent on this, I'd say about half that time was actually playing the thing.Far more troublesome is the legion of technical issues. Frame-rate drops are a constant, and glitchy pathing behaviour is just a rule, but the performance was so bad I abandoned the review build supplied by Creative Assembly and downloaded the full game on release. It was just as terrible. My PC runs Shogun II at ultra settings without any issues but Rome II on medium makes it choke like a dog, and judging by the developer's own forum many others are having the same issues.A standout feature is the ability to zoom right in from far above the battlefield to an up-close cinematic camera. Photograph: Creative Assembly/SegaWhich is why it's such a pity that, when you actually get into the battles and it's running smoothly for once, Rome II gives glimpses of a classic. It's easy to forget that the game's called Total War for a reason, and its gigantic throwdowns not only look the part but deliver substance, too. There's nothing like a late-game Roman army filled with mighty legionaries and cavalry, backed up by ballistae and naval support, crashing into a Carthaginian force of equal size and led by war elephants.The detail up-close is extraordinary, but it's the ability to zoom far above the battlefield and command as a disembodied god that feels amazing. An especially nice new touch is an overhead tactical map that can toggled mid-battle, and switching between this to give orders and the up-close cinematic camera simply has no equivalent; it's a breathtaking sweep.As with all Total War games the AI is questionable; though it feels generally improved from Shogun II, it's still possible to manipulate computer armies into chasing after one cavalry detachment, or flank opposing archers incredibly easily. There's also the odd detail that doesn't quite fit. I played as the Spartans, for example, and watched with incredulity as they were routed with ease in every battle. Minor as this may seem the Spartans, famously, did not back down – and certainly not after losing a few units.It is in multiplayer that Rome II unambiguously shines. Playing against another human opponent is easily the most fun this has to offer, which is why it's such a pity the structure around fights is less advanced than that of Shogun II's clan system – the battles themselves are brilliant, but the lack of persistence is instantly noticeable. With that said the matchmaking does its job, and there is an enormous number of other players.That can't save Rome II. Everything is contained in this single fact: my longest campaign, by far, was spent trying to take the Spartans to world domination. While checking a detail about the Spartan units, I realised that they're part of a DLC pack – that is, an extra purchase is required to use Greek factions. This game should never have been released in its current state, yet the makers have hived off "extra" content to be sold on the day of release.Rome II feels like an unfinished game. It is a cruel fact that if you pick this up in a Steam sale in six months' time you'll get a much better experience, and the people who were foolish enough to put their faith and money upfront get the worst of it.The developers behind Total War: Rome II clearly have enormous talent; but this game as a whole is a failure of project management. So many elements are polished to a shine and yet at no point do they even threaten to come together. And so Rome II comes to depend purely on its battles and the fumes of nostalgia from a game more than a decade old – an inspiration that, in all honesty, it is not fit to be compared to.Rome: Total War is one of the most brilliant games I've ever played. Total War: Rome II inverts far more than the name. This does not channel the greatest military empire in history so much as the pale shadow of its ending; a bloated, technically corrupt and unfocused mess.
Activision has released a new game in its Call of Duty series that, for now, is exclusive to Apple's iOS devices.Call of Duty: Strike Teamwas released on the App Store this morning, and as a £4.99 download it's bucking the trend for freemium games on iOS, although it does use in-app purchases on top of the initial download fee.The game is set in 2020, with players tasked with leading a US Joint Special Operations Team after the country "finds themselves in a war with an unknown enemy".Strike Team is also a hybrid game, switching between traditional first-person shooter and a third-person view for "reconnaissance and coordinated squad attacks". It features two modes: a single player campaign and a survival mode with online leaderboards.It's not the first Call of Duty game to be released for mobile devices. Previous games include Call of Duty: Zombies and Call of Duty: Black Ops. However, the new game looks the most ambitious yet.While Activision has released a number of mobile games as spin-offs from console franchises including Guitar Hero and Tony Hawk's Pro Skater, and reboots of older games like Pitfall, the publisher has sometimes seemed more ambivalent about smartphones and tablets than competitors like Electronic Arts."While we're going to continue to look at it, and we think that over the long term there'll be opportunities, right now we just don't see anything that would suggest that changing the way we approach investing against mobile would be a good idea," the company's then-bossBobby Kotick told financial analysts in May 2013, when asked about Activision's strategy.Call of Duty: Strike Team looks like it's had significant investment, however: the game is a 1.31GB download, while the hybrid first/third person gameplay hints at a strategy seeing mobile as more than just a platform for promotional spin-off games for the franchise.The new game was developed by The Blast Furnace, Activision's in-house, UK-based mobile development studio, which wasannounced in August 2012.The game's in-app purchases involve buying virtual tokens, which can also be earned by levelling up, completing the game's campaign mode, signing into a Call of Duty online account, completing every third wave in Survival mode, and for playing the game on consecutive days.Tokens can be spent to unlock the game's weapons and perks earlier than they would otherwise be made available. Players earn XP for a range of activities within Call of Duty: Strike Team, and can then spend them on new weapons or perks – special abilities of the kind seen in previous Call of Duty console games.The in-app store sells tokens in various quantities, ranging from £1.49 for 1,000 to £69.99 for 70,000. The combination of a paid download and further in-app purchases has been used by other high-profile iOS games – Infinity Blade most notably.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamChart of the day: Apple's low end iPhone opportunity &gt;&gt; Fortune TechIn a note to clients Thursday, RBC's Amit Daryanani used Strategy Analytics' market research to estimate what a $300 iPhone 5C might do to Apple's (AAPL) bottom line.Even with the heavily discounted iPhone 4 in the mix, only 2% of Apple's unit sales so far have come from iPhones selling for less than $300. (Samsung, by contrast, gets 60% of its smartphone sales from devices that cost $300 or less.)The graph itself is quite remarkable. Nokia has the highest percentage of sub-$300 phones (because of its feature phone business). The next-biggest is a surprise, though.Japan's levitating train hits 310mph in trials &gt;&gt; Wired.comIt's currently the world's longest and fastest stretch of maglev train, reaching speeds as high as 310 mph in a demonstration last week. But Japan's L-Zero only lives on 15 miles of test track, and we're still more than a decade away from completion.After five years of trials, plus some starts and stops, Central Japan Railway Co. is finally starting construction on a maglev line between Nagoya and Tokyo, a 177-mile trip that will be cut from 95 minutes on today's high-speed trains to just 40 minutes with maglev by 2027. To put that kind of speed in perspective, Amtrak's Acela takes about 3 hours and 40 minutes to go about 210 miles. A trip from Boston to New York on maglev would take under an hour.Meanwhile in Britain.. we don't have fast trains or fast internet.iOS7 is not about flat &gt;&gt; MediumRaphael Ouzan:In all iOS versions until now, a user's app could only call the app developer's server (that is, get updated with new data) when that user actually pressed to open her app. Apple allowed for push notifications as a separate channel.So, for example, your Facebook icon displays a little red number badge when you have new Facebook notifications, but you have to actually open up the app and wait awhile for it to call Facebook's server before the app itself knows what those red numbers referred to and what those notifications are. That wait — those ubiquitous spinning wheels — at times seems interminable.Background fetching in iOS7 lets an app wake up before you use it — just enough to present the data you'll want at the moment you open it. It's like one of those coffee makers that automatically brews your morning joe so it's fresh and hot just when you come down to the kitchen.Changes at the Onion: America's finest news source adjusts to Internet speed &gt;&gt; Slate MagazineWhether you like the new Onion or not, something has clearly changed at the paper. What happened to the Onion? Two words: the Internet. About a year ago, the Onion went through one of the most profound transitions in its history—a change you could see as ruinous or necessary, either the best or the worst thing that's ever happened to fake news.As a cost-cutting measure, the paper's corporate overlords—which, according to several former staffers, is very much the way editorial team has always thought of the business team—decided to move the comedians from New York to Chicago, where the business side operated.HTC revenue collapse analysis: situation hopeless &gt;&gt; BGRTero Kuittinen:HTC is sailing towards the autumn back-to-school sales season with broken masts and a big hole under the waterline. To make things worse, the company isgoing to launch a pricey phablet as its next model. This is precisely the wrong move to make now that we know that the brand has zero high-end appeal.The second devastating setback for HTC is the Microsoft acquisition of Nokia. The buzz in Helsinki this week is that Microsoft is going to implement major price cuts of Lumia models as it prepares to fight for market share in Asia and Europe. Microsoft must cut prices on Lumia models ruthlessly because it will lose the Windows platform support of Samsung and HTC now that it is competing directly against them.A new breed of Chrome Apps &gt;&gt; Google Chrome BlogToday we're unveiling a new kind of Chrome App, which brings together the speed, security and flexibility of the modern web with the powerful functionality previously only available with software installed on your devices. (Think apps designed for your desktop or laptop, just like the ones for your phone and tablet.) These apps are more powerful than before, and can help you get work done, play games in full-screen and create cool content all from the web. If you're using Windows or a Chromebook, you can check them out in the "For your desktop" collection in the Chrome Web Store (Mac &amp; Linux coming soon).Here's what you can expect with new Chrome Apps:• Work offline: Keep working or playing, even when you don't have an internet connection.• More app, less Chrome: No tabs, buttons or text boxes mean you can get into the app without being distracted by the rest of the web.• Connect to the cloud: Access and save the documents, photos and videos on your hard drive as well as on Google Drive and other web services.What is the point of this, other than giving Google more things either to support or abandon? The world isn't short of photo editors or to-do lists - two of the apps it touts here.How to stop spammers inserting events in your Google Calendar &gt;&gt; LabnolFew days ago, I got an email alert at slightly odd hours saying: "Contact FedEx for delivery of your courier." If it were an email, I would have immediately dismissed the message as spam but in this case, the reminder came through Google calendar.It's not a particularly new spam, but it's mighty annoying if you have your email set to "add invitations to my calendar". Worse is figuring out how not to reply to it, either declining or accepting it. (The linked Google help page is no use - it's 404.)July 2009: Samsung Introduces the World's Slimmest Watchphone S9110 &gt;&gt; SamsungSeoul, Korea, July 22, 2009 – Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., a leading mobile phone provider, today announced the launch of the S9110, a cutting-edge watchphone featuring a full touch screen.The sleek S9110 is a mere 11.98mm thick thanks to the company's advanced surface mounting technology, making it the slimmest watchphone device in the market. Featuring a 1.76" full touch screen customized for the wrist-watch form factor, the S9110 aims to attract mobile phone users who want a unique fashion item that keeps them connected on the go. The device also enables the users to check their e-mail seamlessly through Outlook.Price: €450. If at first you don't succeed.. wait four years and add four screws to the front.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Grand Theft Auto 5 GAME pre-orders won't dispatch until September 16 | CVG UKThis might not be popular:Grand Theft Auto 5 pre-orders made with GAME UK will not dispatch until the day before launch, according to an email sent to customers.While GTA 5 is set for a global September 17 launch, publisher Rockstar has ensured retailers will not dispatch pre-orders until September 16, in an effort to ensure no one receives the game early.Better be nice to your postman from now until the 17th...Grand Theft Auto V: The Sum of all Peers | IGNIGN is really rinsing its exclusive hands-on from a few days ago – this feature on how Rockstar has drawn all its experience from previous titles into GTA V is a little gratuitous, but worth a read for those dosing up on info before the big release:It's when you begin to feel these somewhat familiar systems working in tandem together in GTA V that you appreciate just how heavily honed everything has been. Suddenly you're prone on the wing of an aircraft, changing guns with a weapon wheel that cut its teeth in Red Dead Redemption and rolling onto your back in one fluid movement to fire at pursuers, just like Max in Max Payne 3. One minute you're drifting around a bend in a car you've personally customised, appreciating the new, more nuanced handling and utilising Franklin's special ability to temporarily slow down time to pull off insane driving manoeuvres (extremely reminiscent of Midnight Club: Los Angeles' 'Zone' ability). The next you're narrowly avoiding an animal grazing by the roadside – an animal that may or may not have appeared in GTA V were it not for the work already achieved with wildlife in Red Dead Redemption.Sony refunds Final Fantasy XIV customers as servers remain unstable | GameSpot.comAnother worrying omen for our coming age of always online cloud-based gaming:The bungled relaunch of Final Fantasy XIV Online: A Realm Reborn has seen Sony fully refund customers who purchased the PlayStation Network version of the game on August 27 or August 28.Affected customers will see a full refund to their wallet, the entitlements for the game reset, and the game reappearing in their download list. "We apologise for any inconvenience this may cause and thank you for your patience," says Sony.The servers for Final Fantasy XIV have been overloaded since the game's relaunch a week ago, leading Square Enix to suspend digital sales in an attempt to balance the heavy load.Square Enix has repeatedly apologised to users finding it impossible to play the massively multiplayer online game, and game director Naoki Yoshida has taken to the company's forums to explain that he expected far fewer players after FFXIV's first iteration flopped.Is The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt maxing out next-gen consoles already? | VG247Gameplay producer Marek Ziemak chats to VG247 about the latest title in CD Projekt's super-dark RPG series:"We're advanced in testing, running and experimenting with next-gen platforms, and at this point we know the game is pretty demanding. Of course, we still have the authorisation phase in front of us, but because of size and density, we are already close to maxing out the equipment. Of course, if we find more workforce in boxes, we will surely use it to make the game even better. I think others share the same opinion as us, if there's power to be used then why not use it all?"Three Worlds: Monetising the MMO | GamesIndustry InternationalAn interesting look at the problems of running a F2P MMO without sacrificing game design integrity:The Elder Scrolls Online, Wildstar and Rift - three different solutions to the same thorny problemMonetisation. The rise of app stores and the emergence of new, low friction business models have made this divisive term one of the prevalent issues of recent times. Every game needs to make money, from the earthiest indie to the most high-falutin' blockbuster, but the concept of 'monetisation' has started to creep into the general discourse in unpleasant ways. It is now a staple of public-facing statements issued by executives and developers, a constant reminder of the ambiguous connotations of the term 'consumer'. A recent article on Gamasutra about coercive monetisation techniques was met with a polarised response, but its statements aren't too far removed from those released into the public arena week-in, week-out. If anything, it just hit a little too close to home.When Games Pretend to Be Games They Aren't | Overthinking ItReally interesting look at the structure and psychology of Candy Crush Saga, which reaches a fascinating conclusion:See, Candy Crush was presented to me as a game of skill and chance, where each round was an opportunity to win or lose. And because losing is always frustrating, it made me frustrated. But once I realized that, by losing over and over again, I was making it easier to win further down the road, I realized that Candy Crush was never a game of skill after all. No, it's an entirely different kind of game.Candy Crush is a JRPG.I wasn't losing.I wasgrinding.Say what you like about King's saccharine match-three phenomenon, it's a great benchmark for weird F2P compulsion mechanics.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
It's Friday. Tell us your weekend plans!
