It would be hard to pick out Forbes's  face of the year from any line-up of  the global business community. Kiran  Karnik, a thin, wiry 57-year-old, pads  around his office in a brown jumper  and slacks talking in paragraphs rather  than sentences. To his detractors, every  time he speaks a few more jobs are silently  sucked from Western economies.Karnik is the president of India's  National Association of Software and Service  Companies, Nasscom, and the voice  of the country's information technology  industry.Nasscom's brief is to promote India's hitech wizardry to the rest of the world, and  to lobby its own government to create a  business-friendly environment. By any measure, Nasscom has been a phenomenal  success: it seems every day sees another  blue chip company announcing  plans to outsource their operations. In the past few weeks IBM, Barclays and Aviva  have all said they will be uprooting thousands  of jobs from the west and planting  them on Indian soil. The trend should not be a surprise. Companies are under intense pressure to  reduce costs, and countries such as India  have large, well-educated, English-speaking  workforces far cheaper than those of  the west. For Karnik, the transfer of employment  from west to east is a "win win"  situation. "I know it is easy to say but now  we have actual data which shows that for  every dollar outsourced the value created  is $1.45145, of which $1.12 flows back to  the US and a smaller benefit of just 33  cents accrues to India," he says.Unfortunately for Karnik, the political anger has not been easily dissipated by hard economics. In Britain, unions have  threatened to strike over the disappearance  of call centre jobs. In America, "offshoring"  has become a hot political issue.Luckily, Karnik has found an ally in Tony Blair. When asked last month about an insurance company's decision to move  thousands of call-centre jobs to India, the  prime minister replied with a staunch defence  of globalisation: "We live in an economy  today which is global, in which there  is going to be a lot of changing of jobs, in  which the concept of nine-to-five jobs is  changing and has already changed."Rapid growth"I greatly respect the fact that Tony Blair has stood up and spoken out about this,"  says Karnik. "In the US that is not happening  and this is a concern because it is  our biggest market. I have not seen any  ranking American politician do the same  and say 'we can't avoid this if we want our  companies to be competitive'. But despite all the talk, there has been no effective legislation  that worries us."Some predict that the trickle will become a flood. The service sectors that  dominate the British and American  economies will be hit hard. As many as  400,000 US jobs have shifted abroad and  studies suggest 3m may disappear by  2015. Most have so far been in call centres  and back-office operations, but an everincreasing  number are high value jobs - such as equity analysts and legal researchers."McKinsey really started this," says  Karnik. "They used to just get bright  MBAs here to do internet searches but  these guys were so good that now they are  used not only to get the raw material, but  they process it, do the analysis and then  send it off to the HQ, where a consultant  just reads it and signs it off. I think that it  could happen, too, in other fields such as  law and architecture."The rapid growth of India's hi-tech sector  does worry executives around the  world. Only this week Carly Fiorina,  Hewlett-Packard's chief executive, warned  of the growing threat posed by countries  such as China, Russia and India to US dominance of the knowledge economy.India has more than half a million IT  professionals. A little more than 75,000  join every year. The starting salary of a  software engineer in India is only £2,000  a year. "There are individuals and companies  worried about losing that lead on  innovation - that edge," Karnik says.  "And much as I would like to see India  gaining ground it is not about to overtake  the west. We are world class in terms of  the software development but there is little  else which fundamentally challenges  the richer countries."Karnik's evangelism is easier to explain  if you consider his background. After  studying physics, he spent 20 years at India's  Space Research Organisation, where  he was in charge of the world's first satellite  broadcaster. "We borrowed a satellite  from America in 1975 and for a year used  it to broadcast educational programmes  to poor farmers across India. I wanted to  change the world in the 1960s and in  India you did that by joining the  government."Karnik left to launch the television  channel Discovery in south Asia. "I  started by working at home and when I  left in 2001 we were in 20m households."For Karnik, India has learned about globalisation  the hard way. A little more than  15 years ago the country was a selfproclaimed  economic isolationist. In 1991,  it came close to running out of foreign exchange  and the shock of bankruptcy saw it dismantle the tariffs and taxes that sheltered  its faltering economy and embrace  capitalism. The process was not easy."When we embarked on globalisation  frankly not by choice but because  were pretty much broke as a country  we went through a lot of pain," says  Karnik. "In getting loans from the international  community we had to open  our economy and as a result a lot of people  lost their jobs."It is not too dissimilar to Britain, where  you had a major restructuring in  1980s and now have the lowest unemployment  rates in Europe. I do not know  every miner or steelworker has got another  job but your economy continues  grow." Once the Indian economy began  shaking off socialism, it boomed. The latest  figures show economic growth of  year - the second-fastest growing economy  in the world - and its foreign exchange  reserves have sailed past $100bn.    Although technology is only a small  part of the economy it has forced change  upon the lumbering colossus of the Indian  state, which has failed to build  roads and ports that connect other  economies to the rest of the world.  even here, Karnik remains optimistic."The huge advantage we have, and always look for the silver lining, is in human  resource. Whatever you do it takes at least  years to create a graduate. You cannot  do it any quicker. But in terms of infrastructure,  what took 10 years a decade  can be done three or four years now  thanks to new technology. We have seen  this in telecoms," he says. "When I was  boy it could take years to get a phone line,  now it takes a day."Buying into EuropeIndia is now the world's fastest growing  telecom market, with more than 1.5m new  mobile phone subscriptions sold each  month. But Karnik believes companies  face tough times ahead. First they  have to break out of India and buy foreign  companies - both to defuse political  anger and understand foreign business cultures. "Indians don't understand Europe.  In France and Germany, we need  buy companies that are established there  and know how to do business."Also waiting in the shadows is China,  country Karnik has been visiting since  1980s and which is the biggest threat to India's  success. "It is the only country with  similar large pool of talented people,"  says. "We have the advantage of knowing  English, because the British left the language  here. Similarly the Japanese were  China for 50 years and have left their culture  behind in the north-east, giving  Chinese a great advantage in east Asia."Karnik is confident that India's software  and services industry can meet the challenge.  "Our greatest resource are our people,"  he says, pointing to studies that show  half the country's population is under  age of 25. "In the next 20 years we  have a surplus of people of working  and most of the rest of the world - America,  China and Europe - will have  deficit. Now countries cannot absorb millions  of immigrants easily so it is easier  outsource the work instead."The CVBornMarch 1947EducationBombay University, Indian Institute of Management in AhmedabadFamilyOne daughterCareerPresident Nasscom since 2001; managing director of Discovery Networks in India 1995-2001; director of the Consortium for Educational Communication 1991-95. Worked for more than 20 years in the Indian Space Research OrganisationLeisureReading, writing, films
Among tech hacks here, there's been more talk about what Appledidn'tannounce at MacExpo than what they did, with their iPod Mini. Principally, what happened to the much-rumoured video iPod? There were reports, as long ago as December 2002, that Apple had shown off a prototype video iPod, and the sector has grown rapidly over the last 12 months. There are a lot on show here at CES (although the only one I've actually used for any time is the quite impressiveArchos AV300) and Microsoft sees these kind of devices as hooking up to its Windows Media Centre PCs.So reporters from theNew York Times(reg required) put the question to Steve Jobs at MacExpo, and got a reply that suggested Apple's been thinking about it but had problems - both with the concept, and the practicalities. He didn't rule it out - "Now, I'm not saying we're not working on something like that... Who knows what we've got in our labs?" - but clearly we shouldn't be holding our breath.
Thanks toTechdirtforthis link, from the Fon Du Lac Reporter. It reads like something from the Onion, but seems deadly serious.Cable TV made a West Bend man addicted to TV, caused his wife to be overweight and his kids to be lazy, he says. And he's threatening to sue the cable company. Timothy Dumouchel of West Bend wants $5,000 or three computers, and a lifetime supply of free Internet service from Charter Communications to settle what he says will be a small claims suit. Dumouchel blames Charter for his TV addiction, his wife's 50-pound weight gain and his children's being "lazy channel surfers," according to a Fond du Lac police report.
Today, Japanese consumers get first crack at all the innovative new products, saysPC World.Comment: So things haven't changed in the past 30 years.....
The chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, Carly Fiorina, launched a blistering attack on digital piracy last night, vowing to throw the full weight of her company's resources behind attempts to clamp down on illegal online file sharing.Speaking at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, Fiorina was joined on stage by Jim Iovine,  the chairman of Interscope Geffen A&amp;M Records, and several entertainment industry stars including U2's guitarist The Edge, singer Sheryl Crow, hip hop producer Dr Dre and film star Ben Affleck, who all backed the company's drive.Chart-topping soul singer Alicia Keys also performed during Fiorina's keynote and condoned music downloads by fans, but only if they then bought the music if they liked what they heard.Fiorina said her company was "proud to take a stand against piracy," and that supporters of illegal file-sharing had been responsible for eroding consumers' morals by making piracy simple and widespread."In the past we had Moore's law," she said, referring to the law said to govern the continual rapid improvement in computer processor power. "Now we have KaZaA's law, which states &#91;that&#93; our sense of right and wrong don't evolve as quickly as our technology."Just because we can steal music doesn't mean it is right. Just because we can steal intellectual property doesn't mean it is right. It is illegal, and it is wrong," she said.From this year, all HP hardware will include software to protect intellectual property, she said, adding that the company would consult with industry and consumer bodies in its drive to reduce digital media piracy.The 1500-strong audience at the Las Vegas Hilton theatre also got the first glimpse of HP's new music player, which is to be designed and built by Apple, the producer of the top-selling iPod music player.The new player, due on sale this summer, looks much like an iPod apart from its light blue colouring and the HP logo on the back.As well as selling the new device, HP will put a link to Apple's iTunes Music Store on the desktop of every computer it sells from the summer. It is the first time Apple has licensed its iPod and music store technology to a third party.Fiorina said HP had looked at other alternatives but "concluded Apple's iPod music player and iTunes music service were the best by far".The deal represents a major boost for Apple as its rivals, including Real Networks and Sony, are to launch their own download services. It also bolsters Apple's AAC music format against rivals from Microsoft and Real.
Microsoft has announced ambitious plans to tie together personal computers, televisions and its Xbox games consoles in a push into the rapidly converging consumer electronics market.In his keynote speech opening the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas yesterday, Microsoft's chairman, Bill Gates, announced a series of innovations designed to blur the dividing lines between PCs, internet entertainment and TV.Mr Gates showed off new devices intended to work alongside Windows Media Center PCs - computers running a version of the Windows XP operating system which have enhanced home entertainment facilities as well as traditional computing features.New gadgets from several manufacturers will take digital content from PCs - such as music, video and photographs stored on the computer or downloaded via broadband internet connections - and distribute them to TV screens and handheld devices around the home through a wireless network.Mr Gates said the vision of the "digital home" was only now becoming a reality after years of hype. In promising much for the integration of digital devices during the 1990s, he said, the computer industry had "got ahead of itself" and failed to deliver in functionality or ease of use."Now things are really being delivered," he told a 1,500-strong audience, "and the big winners are consumers."Microsoft itself has struggled to expand beyond its traditional stronghold of the computer desktop.It hoped to make inroads into interactive TV as far back as 1997, when it spent $425m (&#163;233m) to acquire WebTV. But that service's growth stalled during the dotcom boom amid disagreements over strategy, and WebTV was eventually folded into Microsoft's MSN internet services division.The company's latest attempts to move into the living room are being supported by a number of partners. Later this year PC manufacturers in cluding Dell, HP and Samsung will produce the Windows Media Center Extender. This will connect to a TV and provide a bridge to media stored on household PCs and the internet.Wireless technology built into the PC and Extender will remove the need for a cable between computer and TV, while the computer will still be free for other applications.Computer manufacturers Gateway and HP are also to produce all-in-one Media Center flatscreen TV sets to display digital content.
Sony has confirmed it is to enter the increasingly competitive online music market in the US later this year in a drive to bring together its entertainment and consumer electronics products.Amid a flurry of announcements at the consumer electronics show in Las Vegas yesterday, the company said it intends to go head to head with a number of music download services that have been launched in the past year, including products from Dell, Wal-Mart and the market-leading iTunes music store from Apple.Sony's new service, Connect, will be launched in spring and initially work only with Sony's range of music players, although the company says it will offer music downloads for users of other devices in the future. Connect will offer a range of music and pricing similar to its rivals, with 500,000 songs from all the major record labels for 99 cents (54p) a time, and entire albums for $9.95.The new service is being seen as a defensive move by the conglomerate which - despite straddling consumer electronics, computing and the entertainment industry - has seen rivals such as Apple steal a march in digital media hardware and downloads.Meanwhile, computer-maker Hewlett-Packard announced last night it is to sell a digital music player based on Apple's iPod from this spring.The new device will be HP branded, but will use the iTunes software and online music store in the US. It is the first time Apple has licensed its iPod and music store technology to a third party.HP chairman Carly Fiorina said the company had explored other alternatives for a digital player, but "concluded Apple's iPod music player and iTunes music service were the best by far".
A British man was jailed for five years yesterday for travelling to the US to have sex with a 14-year-old girl he met in an internet chatroom.Barry Beadle, 51, a mobile disco DJ, was also ordered to undergo mental health treatment by a judge in Des Moines, Iowa.Beadle, a former psychiatric nurse from Merseyside, had pleaded guilty in September to two sex crimes after spending several nights at a hotel in Iowa with the girl.She told her mother she was staying with friends, but was picked up from home by Beadle and they then checked into a hotel. The court heard they spent the next six days drinking alcohol and having sex. A FBI agent said in prosecution evidence that Beadle always knew the girl was under 15.Beadle was caught because the hotel manager had suspicions about a cheque he tried to use.He pleaded guilty to travelling to the US to have sex with a minor and inducing a minor to have sex.Iowa federal clerk's office said he was expected to serve at least four years and three months before being eligible for parole.After his release he is expected to be deported to Britain and will not be allowed back into the US without special permission.
From theWashington Post, yesterday:With huge New Year's Eve celebrations and college football bowl games only days away, the U.S. government last month dispatched scores of casually dressed nuclear scientists with sophisticated radiation detection equipment hidden in briefcases and golf bags to scour five major U.S. cities for radiological, or "dirty," bombs, according to officials involved in the emergency effort.
Hewlett Packard is to license iPod technology from Apple to create its own device. ReportsReuters:Beginning this spring, HP said it will start selling the HP-branded player, as well as make available Apple's popular and easy-to-use iTunes digital music jukebox and online music store to HP customers... HP said that, as part of the agreement with Apple, its consumer personal computers and notebook PCs will come preinstalled with iTunes and a desktop icon to point users directly to the iTunes Music Store.Update: In another twist, Apple now says it is going to manufacture the HP-branded devices, and sell them to HP, who will in turn sell them on to consumers. Apple shares are up close 5% on the news.
We were beingtoldearlier this week that "Microsoft is set to deep-six its short-lived Windows XP Media Center Edition" but, as it turns out, that couldn't be further from the truth. Bill Gates put Media Centerat the heart of his keynote, with features and estimated costs that should lead to reasonable adoption, especially in broadband households. It all looked very impressive indeed.Having travelled to Vegas and CES from a fun, but rather bare MacExpo in San Francisco, my first Bill Gates keynote was an interesting experience. Whatever you think of the Redmond giant, it undoubtedly has impressive breadth of vision, the R&amp;D to follow through, and enough industry alliances to get hardware out.The last bit is important: if MS isn't worrying about the minutiae of the gadgets themselves (should it be white or pink?), it can busy itself with the vision thing. Vertically-integrated Apple, even if it wanted to, could not deliver software, bridging hardware, TV screens and handhelds in a single keynote. This isn't about nice innovations for digital photos, or 20 neat new effects in a movie-editing package. It's at a level higher, a broader strategic thing.Now I know Microsoft has not had much success thus far in its attempts to break into, for want of a better word, TV. But it's still hammering away at getting this right. Sony's now looking serious about convergence too (more about that in tomorrow's city pages) - and this is a vertically-integrated company with the heft to do it all.The blurring of lines between PC, internet and TV - talked about for years - is underway. Companies that do not have ownership or serious influence overallthe software and hardware components will undoubtedly risk being frozen out. The claims over this new territory are being staked right here, right now, and the mining rights could last for a long, long time.
A new internet-only party, claiming to have no policies beyond what its readers agree on, could be in breach of electoral rules, according to academics from Nottingham University.Yourparty.orgis hoping to launch next month, in time to fight the European elections in June, but experts have warned that having candidates contractually bound to vote according to supporters could contravene the law.The website - which is linked to the YouGov polling company formed by a former aide to Jeffrey Archer - pledges to enact the views of its participants, if and when it gains any seats.However, this could breach both European electoral law and the British Bill of Rights, according to Dr Richard Whitaker of the Nottingham University's  school of politics.Dr Whitaker points out that the rules of the European parliament explicitly forbid MEPs being contractually bound.   He adds that if Your Party succeeds in getting candidates elected to Westminster they will run up against the 1689 Bill of Rights.According to a 1947 ruling "it is inconsistent with the dignity of the house, with the duty of a member to his constituents, and with the maintenance of the privilege of freedom of speech, for any member of this house to enter into a contractual agreement with an outside body, controlling or limiting the member's complete independence and freedom of action in parliament or stipulating that he shall act in any way as the representative of such outside body in regard to any matters to be transacted in parliament; the duty of a member being to his constituents and to the country as a whole, rather than any section thereof."Philip Cowley, a colleague at Nottingham University, said: "There is nothing to stop Your Party - or any party, come to that - using the internet to develop its policies. But what they can't do is bind any MP or MEP to vote that way. All they can do is hope that their MPs will follow the party's line - but, as every other party has found out in the past, once elected there's no guarantee that they will."The unique party demands that interested parties sign up through a short membership survey, but quite how the decision making process evolves beyond that is unclear.James Crabtree, an expert on internet politics at the Work Foundation, said: "I'm slightly confused as to how this would work. It might be that the party's policies would be decided by referenda of the members, a similar set-up to the Labour party c.1973. On the other hand, it might aim to get more referenda going in the round. Regardless, it'll be interesting to see if they meet with any success."The party itself - whose four founder members insist they are from a mix of political backgrounds - claim that whether or not they succeed in electing members, the mere process of forming the group will be a success for democracy.They state: "Our success or failure will at least help answer some important questions: is it possible for the internet to promote greater engagement in the political process? Will that lead to a better decision-making process? Is the current system of politics good enough as it is, or will it benefit from this challenge? "How they will guard themselves against infiltration or attack by single-interest groups is unclear. The Radio 4 "listeners' law" exercise over Christmas produced a surprise result when voters opted for a "Tony Martin" law of using lethal force to defend property.That is thought to have been targeted by supporters of the Norfolk farmer, jailed for shooting an intruder.The group say that all polling of members will be undertaken by YouGov, an internet polling organisation run by Stephan Shakespeare, a former spin doctor for Jeffrey Archer, and Peter Kellner, a pundit for the Evening Standard.YouGov's advocates see it as a way of empowering the electorate, while its critics have condemned it as a dangerous trivialisation of politics.
"As expected, Sony announced a music download service called Connect, which will be available this spring and will offer more than 500,000 titles for 99 cents per track. The service, demonstrated at CES, will aggregate content from all the major labels and will be run as a wholly owned subsidiary. Connect will be headed by Jay Samit, a former EMI Recorded Music executive, and ATRAC will be the audio format used by the service." reportsCNet.
A minor exclusive on Guardian Unlimited only today: Apple admits it's going toreview its UK &amp; European pricingfor the iPod mini. Apple vice president Greg Joswiak told me the price was "subject to change" and that the company would settle on a UK price "closer to the availability date, simply because of the volatility of the currency exchange".Why they didn't say this in the first place is anybody's guess...
Customers at McDonalds will be able to order a Big Mac and wi-fi under a deal announced yesterday between the fast food chain and BT that is designed to get diners on the net while they eat.The telecommunications company is installing equipment that allows customers with a laptop computer to access the internet without wires in 500 McDonald's outlets across the UK.BT intends to aggressively push the benefits of public access to broadband without wires - or wi-fi - this year. There are already 1,700 locations across the country, from train stations to pubs, where   customers can log on with a subscription to BT's Openzone product. BT has plans to have a total of 4,000 so-called wi-fi hotspots by the summer.But BT has so far provided little information about how many people are using the service. Many new laptops have the technology to access wi-fi built-in, but anecdotal evidence suggests consumers have been slow to surf using their own kit while in public. All BT will say is that it has 100 corporate customers signed up to its wi-fi product.At first glance the deal looked a little surprising, as the equipment will be installed first in McDonald's drive-through outlets, raising the prospect of customers try ing to order, their food, collect it and log on at the same time.But a BT spokesman explained that the range of the wi-fi signal means customers will be able to park in the McDonalds car park and log on from their cars. Logging on from the safety of their cars eliminates one of the main barriers to the use of wi-fi - fear of taking out expensive computer equipment in public."These drive-through sites get a lot of on the road business people such as sales reps coming through," he said. Widening the wi-fi signal range to include car parks means "it's not as daft an idea as it might at first appear", he added. The "hotspots" will be up and running by the end of March.
Apple Computer is set to review the UK pricing of its iPod mini music player, launched on Tuesday, after complaints about a substantial mark-up for non-US buyers of the device.The iPod mini will go on sale next month in the US for $249 - which would translate to a UK price of £162 including VAT if today's exchange rates were applied. Yet Apple's UK arm announced on Tuesday that it plans to sell the device for £38 more, at £199, immediately sparking an outcry from the company's European customers.Now a senior Apple executive has said the company will review its pricing outside the US, and blamed the high pricing on the continuing weakness of the dollar against other currencies.In an interview, Apple vice president Greg Joswiak told Online the price announcement was "subject to change" and that the company would settle on a UK price "closer to the availability date, simply because of the volatility of the currency exchange".The exact pricing would depend on the strength of dollar relative to the pound, he said. "What we don't want to do is lock Europe into a price now, see the dollar continue to weaken, and have done all of ourselves a disservice by pricing too early," said Mr Joswiak.He also dismissed pre-show rumours that Apple had been considering launching a sub-$99 player as "something we don't want to get in to.""That's why all this nonsense about us doing a $99 player was just that. We weren't going to do a player that does 30 songs - it's very uninteresting to us."
The Microsoft chairman, Bill Gates, last night announced a stepping up of the company's push away from the confines of the PC desktop and into the converging world of consumer electronics.Mr Gates placed his vision for "seamless computing" and the "digital home of the new future" at the heart of his speech to the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, unveiling a number of initiatives.Most of the innovations were intended to blur the dividing lines between PCs, internet entertainment and television, although Mr Gates also unveiled a new $99 (£54) per year premium version of Microsoft's MSN internet software.New devices to work alongside Windows Media Centre PCs were central to his presentation. Gadgets will take digital content such as music, video and photographs from PCs, distributing it to screens and devices around the home through a wireless network.It is a long-held vision but one, Mr Gates said, that could only be made reality now. He added that, in promising much for the integration of digital devices during the 90s, the computer industry had "got ahead" of itself, failing to deliver in terms of functionality or ease of use."Now things are really being delivered," he told a 1,500-strong crowd, "and the big winners are consumers."Later this year, a number of PC manufacturers - including Dell, HP and Samsung - will produce the Windows Media Centre Extender, which will connect to a TV and provide simple access to digital media files held on household PCs.Wireless technology built into the PC and extender will remove the need for a cable between computer and television, and the computer will still be free for use.Computer manufacturers Gateway and HP are also to produce all-in-one media centre flat-screen TV sets to display digital content.The costs of adding media centre capabilities to TVs will be low. Microsoft told Reuters that it expects manufacturers to be able to build them in for around $30, with a stand-alone set-top box costing around $120. The low pricing should help drive more rapid and widespread adoption of the technology.Creative will produce on of the first of an expected raft of handheld media centres, priced from around $399, which will play video content on their mini screens. A $60 kit for Microsoft's Xbox will allow the console to tap into the media content as well."The future of digital entertainment will be that the quality of voice calls, the quality of music, the quality of video will get so good any possible improvement would not be noticeable," Mr Gates said. "It will be as good as it could possibly be."The upgrade to Microsoft's MSN online service has been hailed by executives as the most significant since the service was launched in 1995.It will offer an improved email package, spam and virus protection and a pop-up advertisement blocker that, some industry observers predict, will lead to the demise of this unpopular form of web advertising.The new service allows users to track eBay auctions from their homepage - the first time the internet auctions giant has agreed to such a service - and also makes it easier for Windows users to share digital photographs.
The iPod Minis that Apple's Steve Jobs unveiled this week are intended to bridge the gap between today's powerful but expensive iPods and the rest of the music player market. Many of the iPod's rivals use memory chips instead of hard drives, so they are cheaper, but they hold far less music. The iPod Minis will cost $249, or &#163;138 at today's exchange rate, although the UK price will be much higher: &#163;199.As such they cost more (and, in the UK, much more) than the sub-&#163;100 players they are intended to compete with. However, Apple is banking on their far greater capacity and more pleasing aesthetics to persuade customers to spend a little more. "It's the best $50 you'll ever spend," promised Jobs at the MacExpo show. For your money, you'll get a tiny device: a half-inch thick business card-sized aluminium sliver in silver, gold, blue, pink or green. Its 4GB hard drive will hold around 1,000 songs, and the device sports the same scroll wheel and user interface that has won the bigger iPod such plaudits.
Free PCI have an ancient PC and am considering obtaining a more modern one. Do you have a view on the free computer offered bywww.metronomy.com?John FarrallJack Schofield replies:Metronomy is offering free PCs in exchange for using the PC for at least 30 hours per month and watching one minute of advertising every 20 minutes on the PC screen. You must also have an internet connection. The proposed system is an IBM machine - IBM is the world's biggest computer company - with three years IBM warranty. The specification is at the low end of today's PC standards, with a 2.4GHz Intel Celeron, 256MB of memory and a 40GB hard drive, but it is more than adequate for normal purposes. The website says: "Metronomy's consumer launch takes place early 2004 and the first PCs will not be delivered until February/March." It remains to be seen how Metronomy will choose its users, and whether it can create a viable business.Which XP?I intend buying a laptop soon, but I see you recommend XP Pro rather than XP Home. Why?Keith ChambersJS:XP Pro is more secure and offers more networking features than XP Home at what may be little extra cost, for pre-installed versions, depending on where you shop. Of course, whether the extra features    have much value depends on your needs, though XP Pro outsells XP Home. Microsoft has a list of the differences between the two versions athttp://www.microsoft.com/windowsxp/pro, but there is a better discussion at Paul Thurrott's Supersite for Windows atwww.winsupersite.com.Time to upgrade?I understand that Microsoft will cease support for Windows 98 early this year. Can you recommend the best way to keep it up to date and secure? Should I now consider upgrading to Windows XP?Geoff CadmanJS:Microsoft will stop supporting Windows 98 and Windows 98SE on January 16, though "self-help" online support will continue until at least 2006. But all DOS-based products, from Windows 3 to Windows Me, are obsolete, and there are diminishing returns for Microsoft in providing free support for five-year-old products with no future. Business users should already have upgraded to Windows NT/2000/XP, which has been out for a decade. Home users probably will not be greatly affected.A free program such as Grisoft's AVG will deal with viruses. Any further security leaks are more likely to appear in Internet Explorer and related programs, which are not specific to your version of Windows. These will continue to be fixed. Microsoft says it will also consider fixing any serious security breaches in Windows 89/SE. Since Windows 98 still runs on about 25% of the installed base, this is likely.IE problemThe new behaviour of IE6 is driving me potty. It now scrolls down twice when you click in the scroll bar. It has been introduced with the latest security patch but there is no official reference to it on the Microsoft website, except in the community newsgroups.Sally BeanJS:It is a bug, though it is not clear how many systems are affected. Until Microsoft corrects it, the only way to get rid of the problem is to remove the security patch. This is probably listed in Add/Remove Programs as Internet Explorer Q824145. Workarounds are being discussed in the newsgroup,microsoft.public.windowsupdate.AOL blocksI think I'm not alone in experiencing problems receiving email with AOL. Over the past few months, several people have told me their email to me is being returned, or that they are sending me email which I'm not receiving. I have reported this via AOL's online help facility several times. They say the problem is being caused by the attempt to filter out spam. Changing to another ISP might be a possibility, but it is not possible to export the AOL contacts database, so involves a lot of work. I am, of course, still getting liberal amounts of spam.Maxine LinnellJS:AOL is taking a hard line on blocking spam. It also seems to be blocking some amount of legitimate mail, but since you can't see what is blocked, you can't tell. All you can do is, as AOL says, ask people to send copies of their blocked mail to their ISP, and ask them to take it up with AOL. However, since AOL does not offer or officially support standard internet email services - it has its own proprietary system - then I think your best course is to switch gradually to a separate POP3 email service, such asHotPop, or a paid-for service. That way you can use your own preferred email program and address book, which will make it easier to switch ISPs in the long run.
Happy birthday to GNU. The development of the operating system now known as Linux  started 20 years ago this week, when Richard Stallman quit his job at MIT to start writing a free clone of the Unix operating system. The name was derived from the recursive Gnu's Not Unix, and is pronounced as in the Flanders and Swan song.Stallman had announced his intentions on September 27, 1993, in the net.unix-wizards Usenet newsgroup. "I consider that the golden rule requires that if I like a program I must share it with other people who like it," he wrote. "So that I can continue to use computers without violating my principles, I have decided to put together a sufficient body of free software so that I will be able to get along without any software that is not free."Stallman's contribution was one of the most astonishing feats of programming ever seen. He developed the GNU C Compiler (GCC), debugger (GDB), GNU Bash shell and a version of the powerful Emacs text editor. He also launched the Free Software Foundation to support the work, and published the GNU General Public Licence (GPL).The GNU operating system was close to completion except for the kernel, when Linus Torvalds got involved. Though he wasn't a free software aficionado, he used Stallman's tools to develop one, and released it under Stallman's licence. This is why purists tend to call it GNU/Linux though, in my view, that battle has long been lost.On Monday, Stallman's birthday letter made it clear that his take on free software has not changed. The problem now, however, is not that people don't use free software, but that they use it for the wrong reasons. "Are we working for freedom, or have we replaced that goal with the shallow goal of popularity?" he asked.Again, I think that battle has been lost. "Free software" only became popular after a breakaway group led by Eric Raymond and Bruce Perens decided to ditch the ideology and rename it "open source". The new reality is that: "Free software is a political philosophy; open source is a development methodology." (This isn't what the Open Source Definition says, but no one reads that anyway.)So far, open source has mainly   continued Stallman's approach of cloning Unix and, more recently, Windows originals. This makes it relatively easy to unify developments among programmers who don't even know one another. But what will happen when they run out of things to clone?The open source movement currently has no way of developing independent software architectures, or even of performing simple usability testing. And it shows.And without a Stallman-style ideological commitment, it is hard to see why any bright young programmer with a brilliant idea should decide not to become a billionaire and give it all away. Logically, open source will result in a software industry that is not just without significant profits but without the profit motive. It will be interesting to see if it works.
Mission: Impossible - Operation SurmaPS2, Xbox, GBA, &#163;39.99 Atari, &#42;&#42;&#42;Perhaps it is a good thing that no Mission: Impossible film is imminent as games of films are invariably of little merit. In recent years, Atari has been one of the worst perpetrators of games that consisted of movie licences and little else, as anyone who played Enter The Matrix will attest.Operation Surma, however, is a very accomplished game. It is an action-adventure game with an emphasis on stealth and gadgets, much like Splinter Cell, from which it derives inspiration. But Operation Surma is much more forgiving and therefore mainstream or, at least, less demanding of superhuman powers of concentration. Unless you masochistically opt to play it in "Impossible" mode, the guards are less observant than those of Splinter Cell, and you can turn off alarms you have tripped.You play as Ethan Hunt, although other specialist members of the Mission: Impossible team are involved (especially when, as in the film, you reach the realms of wearing latex masks and impersonating baddies).Operation Surma also has plenty of checkpoints, minimising the annoying need to retrace your steps when you die, and features some mouth-watering gadgetry, including a sonic imager that lets you see through doors.In gameplay terms, it offers little that has not been seen before, and it lacks a two-player mode. But it is nicely structured, looks good and feels classy and solid.Steve BoxerHidden &amp; Dangerous 2PC, &#163;34.99 Illusion Softworks/ Gathering, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The original Hidden &amp; Dangerous, despite being bug-ridden to hilarious degrees, nevertheless surprised everyone with superb playability and enormous, free-form levels. The sequel is more of the same - more bugs, more patches to download and more fun.Try not to judge this by the standards of Call of Duty or Medal of Honour, both of which relied on heavily scripted set-pieces. H&amp;D2 is a much more realistic depiction of war: weapons are flawlessly recreated right down to the calibre of bullets, tactics are authentic (you can only take down a Tiger tank from directly behind, where the armour is weakest) and the beauty is in the detail.Artificial intelligence also plays a big part, with squad members that respond instantly to command, but also fall back on their wits to defend themselves. Enemy soldiers consistently out-think and shoot you, if you underrate them. Add to this seven large campaigns and the undeniable potential of multiplayer support, and it could be a perfect war game.It isn't, of course. The game is not as free-form as it wants to be, stealth is too hard to achieve and it's a shame you don't have more opportunity to pilot vehicles, which would have made for more varied gameplay. It's also nothing like the leap forward we might have been expecting after so long in development.Mike AnderieszSplinter CellNokia N-Gage, &#163;29.99 Ubi Soft &#42;&#42;&#42;Virtua TennisNokia N-Gage, &#163;29.99 Sega, &#42;In another of those big brand miniaturisations that are so popular on Game Boy Advance, Splinter Cell and Virtua Tennis move from the TV to the mobile.The former makes the more successful transition, offering 2D sneaky thrills. So, like the excellent Xbox version, you control secret agent Sam Fisher. With a bagful of gadgets, this is your chance to live out some Bond fantasies And with tasks ranging from abseiling to lock-picking, there is plenty to do. Unfortunately, the gameplay has been watered down somewhat, with far less opportunity to sneak up on victims.Splinter Cell is tough, too, with trial and error often being your main weapons. Duff multiplayer aside, this is one of the better N-Gage titles.Unfortunately, Virtua Tennis lets the side down. With Pong, essentially tennis after all, kick-starting videogaming, you'd think it would be straightforward to create a solid tennis game. Not here, as the controls are unresponsive, making getting around the court a real chore. Not that your opponents will have any sympathy as they batter you. However, challenging a human via Bluetooth does level the playing field and make for a more enjoyable game.Greg Howson
Economics started with Adam and Eve when the world's entire gross national product consisted of one apple (and per capita GNP was half an apple). It took its name from the Greek words oikos (home) and nomos (manage).For then, and for many centuries afterwards, the producing unit was the household - until industrialisation triggered a migration to factories.Most people still leave home for work despite all the hype about teleworking, but in recent decades, there has been a big swing towards bringing industry and entertainment back into the home, a process greatly accelerated by the digital revolution.If you have any doubts, start counting all the electric motors   you have in the house. You may be quite surprised as the dozens mount up (and don't forget the micro-motors in your mobile phone and digital camera).The home has not only become a laundry but also a cinema (as screens expand and online delivery improves), a concert hall, a gymnasium, a restaurant and, in recent years, a bank as well.The explosion of online shopping has removed the need to leave home to go to the local supermarket or travel agent, just as search engines such as Google have replaced many of the functions of a reference library because you have one at home.Commercial artists and music composers no longer need a separate studio, since the computer has become one at home. You can still go to WH Smith   for a paper or magazine but you don't have to because your computer is its own WH Smith.You may like to go out to play chess or bridge but you don't have to because you can play remotely at home. Pretty soon, your flatscreen television set will become a virtual art gallery when you are not using it as a TV. Sex shops are believed to have been having a bit of a difficult time from virtual equivalents at home.Mobile phones made phone boxes redundant, and as they have also become digital cameras, they have removed the need for sending the film to a factory to be printed. The functions of the factory are now in the phone and the results can be printed out on a colour printer - hitherto housed in commercial premises.Soon you won't have to hire an   expensive studio to make a film as your video camera may make a fair substitute (at least for showing on your home screen).Until recently, the future of the bakery seemed assured even though supermarkets were embracing them. Last year, one of the hottest new products was the breadmaking machine - complete with microchips - enabling anyone to make bakery-fresh bread effortless at home.Our household received one for Christmas (complete with more micro-motors) and was duly impressed. The only problem was where to put it. One option would be to put it in the recess that was once a bread oven - a symbol of work creeping back into the home whence it came.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Ironing out quirksI am tetraplegic, so the only way I can use a PC is to use voice-recognition software. I have upgraded my IBM ViaVoice package over the past five years, and have learned how to iron out the quirks in these programs.Your contributor's difficulties with dictating to ViaVoice (Save your wrists, December 18) are probably due to ambient noise. The software tries to make sense of any sounds it detects as spoken language. He should try using voice recognition in a quiet room, and possibly needs to realise that it can't tell the difference between dictation and conversation with somebody else in the room.He is also mistaken, in that one can control the cursor using ViaVoice (a utility called VoiceMouse). Correcting errors in text can be made more accurate by spelling out "wrong" words using the alphabet (Alpha, Bravo, Charlie, Delta etc)I appreciate that the training element of using voice-recognition software is tedious and often frustrating, but for those of us who cannot use a keyboard, these kinds of facilities are the only way we can access modern technology. I am constantly amazed how well these packages perform.Simon HengKidderminsterWork it throughI have been a Dragon voice recognition user for a number of years due to a work-related wrist disorder. As a senior technical officer for the Royal National Institute of the Blind, I'm also involved in technical assessment   for visually impaired people. A couple of suggestions. Consider having an access-to-work assessment. This can be arranged through an ATW adviser usually based at a local JobCentre. This can check you are using the appropriate technology and help to fund the software and training.Dragon can be a sophisticated piece of software with numerous methods for making life easier, but can be very frustrating. It may be helpful to consider alternatives to the mouse as this contributed to my problems.Jenny WrightBlocking abuseI would like to share a startling response from the "automated guardian" between myself and my MP that I received today.I was sent a copy of a Guardian article about the proposal to reduce the voting age to 16. I thought it worthy of forwarding to my MP Chris Leslie, just in case he had missed it.  The reply from parliament was worrying, to say the least:"This is to advise you that your email has been blocked and will be deleted by the Houses of Parliament in due course since we believe it has inappropriate content. The intended recipient has not received the email.In the event that you believe the email has been blocked incorrectly please contact the intended recipient directly to discuss its release."Inappropriate content? My, the Guardian has a lot to answer for.Bob AdsettThe other sideYour review ofweblogging softwarewas informative, but I've found one you missed. It's calledinkNoise.Michael NicholsStarting blocksYour glossary in the weblogging review refers to RSS but there is no entry for it. I'm interested in starting a blog, and to have this explained   would be a great help.Paul ColnaghiEditor's note:The site is being updated. For more information on RSS, seehttp://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss, Harvard Law school's technology pages.Fast is bestI have just caught up with Ron Graves' letter (Feedback, December 4), which states that a fast and reliable connection is what counts and not ISP/portal content. I am amazed at the arrogance of content providers, who assume they know what we, the millions online, need. If I need information on film I would go to IMDB. It would not occur to me to use my ISP. This applies across the board. A different point of view is always interesting and an ISP is unlikely to provide this.What matters is that these services should be provided at a realistic cost (less than now) and at a speed such as the Koreans or Japanese enjoy.Andrew Frey-LempickiLondonOpen to criticismWe were sorry to hear of some readers' disappointment with the BT Yahoo! service. We believe we have designed the leading internet service in the UK, featuring vital parental controls and anti-spam capabilities along with high quality search and content but we always pay attention to criticism.To pick up on one point. We agree a "walled garden" is not the best approach. We have incorporated a customisable home page for each family member allowing our customers to bring to the fore the information and content most relevant to them. Questions about privacy were also raised. We never pass on personal details to others without our customers' permission.Nick HazellDirector, Alliances. Yahoo!
Vote 2004It's not often that John Bird, founder of the Big Issue, and Oliver Letwin, conservative shadow chancellor, find much to agree on. Trade unionist Bill Morris and one-time Whitehall mandarin Charles Guthrie also concur. What unites them is that they think the UK deserves a referendum on the EU constitution, to be ratified this year. The website for the campaign to get a UK vote is underway. You can register your support, donate money, find out if your local MP supports the referendum, and email her or him if not. As an example of innovative cross-party politics, the site is informative and imaginatively presented.www.vote-2004.comhttp://european-convention.eu.inthttp://european-convention.eu.intComic turnsThe work of comic book writer Harvey Pekar, subject of the new biopic American Splendor, is no stranger to the web. The impressive official film site includes e-cards, trailers and an essay by filmmakers Shari Springer Bergman and Robert Pulcini. There's little wrong with Pekar's blog either, except it hasn't been updated since October. E-comic site Modern Tales makes amends with several editions of Pekar's comics. Preview copies are free, but you need to pay a &#163;2 subscription to read the rest.www.americansplendormovie.comwww.harveypekar.comwww.moderntales.comTrading placesCan you make a living by playing online role-playing games? Julian Dibbell hopes so. He is half-way through a year-long experiment to earn a crust by trading in the immaterial wealth of the sci-fi game Ultima Online (UO), and has launched a blog to document it. Play Money is a daily blog of "one man's attempt to get rich selling castles in the air". Dibbell has a wife and child, but in   April, he will state that his primary source of income comes from "the sale of imaginary goods" - the buying and selling of virtual weapons and property created inside the UO game world. Dibbell auctions these virtual commodities, and estimates that online trading in UO amounts to $1.2m annually, but he earned just $3,131.42 last quarter.www.juliandibbell.com/playmoneywww.uo.comwww.uo-auction.comSecret symphonyIn a memorable moment in the 1991 film The Fisher King, director Terry Gilliam transformed a throng of rush-hour commuters in New York's Grand Central Station into a huge arrangement of ballroom dancers. Finding beauty in such maddening situations is also the work of Alexander Chen, a web designer who operates under the name of Carbonated Jazz. His latest work, Sonata of the Unaware, is composed of a live video feed from inside Philadelphia's railway station. The feed is converted into data, which is used to generate music. The result is a surprising piece of improvised jazz.www.carbonatedjazz.comwww.sonatafortheunaware.comKirby TimesThe Kirby Times describes itself as "an independent working class website" and boasts "news, views, reports, photos and videos you won't see anywhere else". It makes no bones about life in Kirby - one of the poorest quarters of one of the poorest cities in Europe - and is staffed by volunteers. The site monitors CCTV cameras, campaigns against pollution in Liverpool and highlights miscarriages of justice. But its attacks on councillors and the questions it has asked about recent land deals have landed it in trouble. Knowsley Council threatened its internet service provider with legal action if it didn't pull the plug. Blueyonder complied. But it is now back.www.kirkbytimes.co.ukFamily researchA copy of the civil registration of all the births, marriages and deaths (BMD) for England and Wales between 1837 and 2001 was launched this week. The Family Research Link has built a search engine that allows addicts to look up reference numbers to certificates held at the Family Record Centre in London. Prices start at &#163;5 for 50 page views. Alternatively, Free BMD offers a free, but incomplete service, staffed by volunteers. Scotland's records are online but you have to pay. For copies of certificates, you must still apply to the Office for National Statistics by post.www.1837online.comwww.freebmd.org.ukwww.scotlandspeople.gov.ukNew and NotedSubtly Simpsonwww.westegg.com/simpsonsDriving forcewww.bmwfilms.comUK site for Japanese exoticawww.funkyzilla.comVote for the bestwww.wellvetted.com
'The beaver is out of detox." With these words, Linus Torvalds announced on December 17 the release of the next version of the Linux kernel, the heart of the GNU/Linux operating system. The "stoned beaver" - a follow-up to an earlier kernel dubbed the "greased weasel" - is now known more mundanely as Linux 2.6.Despite the modest jump in numbering from version 2.4, released three years ago, 2.6 is likely to provide the quantum leap in power that moves GNU/Linux from the edge of corporate computing - running web sites, print servers and firewalls - into the heart of the enterprise. Linux 2.6 comfortably handles hardware with up to 32 processors - enough for all but the most demanding data centre. One company that has made the transition is Oracle: in August, it announced it was running its entire business on GNU/Linux.But in many ways, the real innovations of 2.6 - and the ones that most affect ordinary users - are at the opposite end of the spectrum. One area where the kernel has been substantially enhanced is in the realm of "embedded systems" - the hidden software used to power specialised industrial and consumer electronics - where Linux is strong.Significantly, Wind River, the main player in this sector - and hitherto a harsh critic of Linux - revealed in October it would be supporting the operating system. No wonder, then, that the world's leading mobile company, the Japanese telecom giant NTT DoCoMo, has announced that Linux will be one of the operating systems it will use for its next- generation phones.Even more importantly, Linux 2.6 adds many features that will improve its performance on desktops, including a new sound system and better support for Plug-and-Play and Bluetooth devices. These moves come at a time when GNU/Linux is making inroads into the desktop market. It seems likely to take the number two slot from Apple this year.Another potentially important factor is Sun's new Java Desktop System, formerly known as Mad Hatter, unveiled in September.Despite its name - a reflection of Sun's continuing ambivalence towards GNU/Linux - the Java Desktop System is only tangentially concerned with the Java programming language. Rather, it offers a complete GNU/Linux operating system and desktop, plus full office suite and web browser, neatly packaged and integrated for easy   installation, and at an attractive price of $100 (&#163;56) all in ($50 until June).The announcement in November of a far-reaching deal between Sun and a consortium backed by the Chinese government gives an indication of the impact Sun's offering could have on the desktop world. Although initial plans call for "only" 500,000 to 1m copies of a Java Desktop System-based solution to be installed per year, the aim is to have "at least 200m copies of an open standards-based desktop solution" throughout China.Asia is fast emerging as a hotbed of GNU/Linux activity. The Red Flag company - China's answer to the US-based Red Hat - expects to sell more than 1m copies of its home-grown GNU/Linux distribution this year. China is working with Japan and South Korea on a regional project to develop alternatives to Microsoft Windows, while smaller countries such as Vietnam are promoting GNU/Linux as a way to combat rampant software piracy and spread limited resources as widely as possible.Nor is Vietnam alone in balking at the cost of using proprietary software. Just before the new year, Israel suspended purchases of Microsoft software in favour of open source. In the UK, the NHS is evaluating Sun's Java Desktop System as an alternative to Microsoft Windows and Offfice for its million employees. Some have seen the move as brinkmanship on the part of the NHS director general of IT, Richard Granger, to win deep discounts from Microsoft. But, equally, Granger is probably one of the few IT directors bold enough to implement a switch on this scale.All these moves have taken place despite SCO's legal assault on GNU/Linux, which began last March. An important development occurred in November when Novell, a former owner of Unix, bought the German-based SuSE and its GNU/Linux distribution, complementing an earlier acquisition of Ximian, the leading open source desktop outfit. These turned Novell into the second major computer company to base its strategy around GNU/Linux - the first being IBM. This is significant, because Novell may have various residual rights to Unix that would fatally undermine SCO's case.Whatever the outcome, the appearance of Linux 2.6 underlines one of the great strengths of the open source development model: the fact that, untroubled by the legal bluster that occupies so much of businesses' time, the coders just keep beavering away.&#183;Glyn Moody is author of Rebel Code: Linux and the open source revolution
With time running out to the next election, the government will make some heavy demands on IT during 2004. Among the perennial problems to be tackled with the help of IT are NHS waiting lists, benefit fraud and civil service costs. Not to mention the war on terrorism. This is also the year in which e-government finally takes off.Events kick off with the search for a head of e-government, to replace Andrew Pinder, the e-envoy. He is due to leave his job in April. Advertisements for the new post will appear shortly. If all goes well, the new IT tsar will have 20 months to achieve the e-government target: all government services available electronically by the end of 2005, with key services being used by large numbers of people.Another item in the in-tray will be the review of Whitehall being conducted by Sir Peter Gershon, head of the Treasury's Office of Government Commerce. It is likely to recommend rationalising "back office" processes, including departments being forced to share IT systems.The Gershon review's conclusions will come too late for some big contract decisions that must be   implemented in the year ahead. Chief of these is the transfer of the Inland Revenue's IT systems from the current contractor, EDS, to a consortium led by CapGemini Ernst &amp; Young. This will be the biggest handover in the history of government IT outsourcing. Cap Gemini is due to take over EDS's systems, along with more than 3,000 staff, by July 1. The consortium will take charge of the massive national insurance recording system from the current supplier Accenture next year.If all goes well, that handover will be little noticed by outsiders. Not so the work on identity cards and a "longitudinal" database of citizens. Apart from their perceived benefits in fighting crime and fraud, both projects are being driven by the agenda of creating joined up e-government. According to council IT managers, the lack of a standard method of establishing citizens' identities online is one of the biggest barriers facing e-government.Work to underpin the identity card's technology begins this month when the UK Passport Service will invite 10,000 volunteers to receive cards bearing electronically encoded biometric information. The trial will test iris scans, fingerprints and electronic facial recognition.In parallel and eventually complementing the ID card, is the central longitudinal database of work and benefit records being created by the Department for Work and Pensions. For the first time, this will create a single record of every individual's history in employment, as a benefit claimant and in retirement.Summer will be a testing time for    two national initiatives in online public services. The &#163;5bn NHS national programme for IT will make its first impact on front line care when the national e-booking scheme goes live across England. Doctors (or more likely their receptionists) will be able to reserve hospital appointment times before their patients leave the surgery. Apart from being   more patient friendly, e-booking is supposed to cut the number of patients missing appointments.Meanwhile, BT and its partners will begin installing the care records service, an electronic "spine" of core information about every NHS patient.Another national e-service due to go live in the summer is the Online Government Store (OGS), a new concept in one-stop web shops being built by the new Office of e-Government. Unlike the existing UK Online portal, which merely directs visitors to agencies' websites, the OGS will carry content on its front page. One service the government would like to be available to citizens with a couple of clicks is car tax.The store will also offer some services currently run by local authorities (which are due to be 66% e-enabled by spring). The rationale is to make life easier for people, such as landlords, who regularly have to deal with many different local authorities, each with their own log-in and authentication procedures.Pressure will also be on the criminal justice IT programme to produce results. A national, secure email service linking courts, police and probation services is due to be running by spring. Another priority - highlighted in the Soham murder case - is to automate the updating of the police national computer so it contains up-to-date criminal records.And coming up for the beginning of 2005 is the mother of all IT contracts, the multibillion pound defence information infrastructure. For the first time, this will integrate systems of the three armed services and Ministry of Defence headquarters.It all adds up to an exciting programme. Probably no government in the world is attempting as complex an IT-led revolution across all its services. But large government IT projects are a risky undertaking, especially if they are being imposed on lukewarm public servants by a government that is also trying to cut spending. One certainty is that 2004 will have a fair crop of IT disasters as well as successes. Watch this space.
MacExpoApple unveiled a new object of lust for techno-fetishists this week - but you'll have to wait until April to see the new iPod Mini in this country. Chief executive Steve Jobs unveiled the new devices in San Francisco this week, during his announcement-packed keynote speech to the MacExpo show.The iPod is massively important for Apple. Since its launch two years ago, it has sold more than 2m units and - more importantly - become the kind of must-have gadget that has catapulted Apple's image to new highs, and provided a useful diversion from the becalmed personal computer industry.But Apple also showed off plenty of innovations for its core business. Most impressive was a revamp of the iLife digital media software suite, which Jobs branded "like Microsoft Office - for the rest of your life". The suite, which already had packages to organise and edit music, video, photographs and DVD productions, now sports a fifth element - Garageband.Garageband is an easy-to-use music sequencer, with a surprising amount of power under its user-friendly interface. It is possible to mix audio loops, tracks from 50 "software instruments" and live audio - up to 64 tracks - and then export the finished production to iTunes and your iPod.The software allows guitarists to plug in their instruments and put their music through one of several classic amplifiers, all imitated by the machine, or add the sound of a &#163;50,000 Yamaha grand piano.Guitarist and songwriter John Mayer came on stage during Jobs' keynote to demonstrate the package, and eulogise about its power. "If I had this when I was 13," he said, "I'd have locked myself in my room for ever."The rest of the $49 (&#163;27) iLife package has also been updated. It includes:&#183;iTunes - the music management package that gives access to your music library on your computer, and on your iPod, and a way in to the Apple Music Store - if you live in the US. A European version of the store is expected this spring.&#183;iPhoto - a digital photo management package which, after criticism of its speed with large numbers of images, can now cope with 25,000 images with "zero waiting", says Jobs. iPhoto can also share its library with other Macs via a wired or wireless network through Apple's Rendezvous technology.&#183;iMovie - Apple's stalwart movie-editing package has received a minor makeover, and can now import directly from Apple's iSight digital camera.&#183;iDVD - the DVD production package has new themes, enhanced menus and, perhaps most importantly, "pro-quality" DVD encoding. which should give a sharper picture. It can fit two hours of video on to one disc.During the keynote, Jobs also announced a new version of Final Cut Express 2, Apple's mid-range video editing package, which will sell for &#163;299, or a $99 upgrade from the current version, and a new G5 version of the company's Xserve file server.Satellite car navigation systemNavman's new satellite navigation systems for cars, the iCN620, is a big improvement on its clunky predecessors and is almost plug-and-play. You put the connector into the cigarette lighter in your car and stick the unit on your windscreen with a suction clamp. All you need do is type in your destination (from an easy-to-use panel with navi-bar on the right) and the system automatically picks up your starting point after taking a few minutes to find its bearings. You are then guided by voice instructions to your destination.At least that's the theory. In practice, it took time to master the idiosyncratic instructions, such as having to press an unlisted button to unravel details of the streets of London. And since there is no confirmation of the chosen destina  tion on the screen, you can sometimes drive for a while before realising you are on the wrong route. Like similar systems, it operates better in the country than on complicated routes in the inner city (for example, where there is a left turn and a left filter close together). I didn't have the bottle to do a "legal U turn" as instructed by the computer in the middle of Victoria Street in London - but at least it recognised my predicament. Once you have got over the quirks, it is impressive and compact. Prices are coming down fast for positioning systems, but at &#163;820 to &#163;850, the iCN620 is still mainly for the enthusiast. Navman has also announced the iCN630 V2 (&#163;1,000), which has a 3D map view and postcode search.Victor KeeganPortable videoMedia on the goFancy a portable video version of the iPod music player? Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates was expected to an nounce further details of the company's Media2Go PVP (portable video player) project during his opening keynote speech at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas last night, after Online went to press. What is surprising is that devices are not already on sale. Gates demonstrated Media2Go with a fanfare at last year's CES, when Samsung, iRiver, ViewSonic and Sanyo were named as hardware partners. Why didn't they have products on the market this Christmas, to compete with the now long-established Archos Jukebox Multimedia 20?Although it remains to be seen what kind of form factors the Media2Go hardware partners have fashioned, there is probably not much that is new about the software. Media2Go is based on Windows CE (Consumer Electronics), which is well known in handheld computers and other devices, including smart wristwatches, sewing machines and mobile phones. Given that a CE-based Pocket PC handheld like the Compaq iPaq has been able to play video files for several years, it can't have been that hard to convert it for a PVP. It did need a simplified user interface, but Microsoft developed one successfully for the Windows XP Media Center home entertainment PC.Other parts of the specification are up to the manufacturers, but typical machines should have an Intel XScale (Arm-compatible) processor, 4in or larger colour LCD screens, and 5GB or larger hard drivers. Creative said its Media2Go system would provide continuous video playback for up to six hours, and continuous music playback for up to 12 hours. Price and weight will also be significant considerations. And someone might even think of offering a video download service similar to Apple's iTunes.Stat of the week:  US ethnic net accessThe digital divide exists - but the gap is closing. By 2007, African-Americans could overtake Hispanics in net penetration and narrow the gap with Caucasians. African-American surfers use broadband at a higher rate than the general online population, according to AOL.
So here it is: the start of 2004. Probably not as important as the start of the new financial year, but it is still a good time to begin thinking about your business's IT strategy for the year.In a time of IT consolidation and retrenchment, it is surprising how much change has happened over the past two years. Perhaps the most important development - and one that will mean the most change for IT departments - is the concept of "service-oriented architectures". Instead of looking at discrete applications, service-oriented architectures see applications as collections of discrete communicating services that can be wrapped up in a workflow to support a business process.If there is one thing you should do this year, it is to seriously consider how this approach can help your business. It is the process view that is the key to the success of the service model, as it means a much closer relationship between a business and its IT functions. Don't just dive in head first, though. It is important to have as accurate a model of your company's business processes as possible before you start to define the services your systems can offer.   Process modelling is a complex procedure and can take time, especially when you have to deal with tortuous information flows. Diagram tools such as Microsoft Visio and the eponymous SmartDraw will help capture and display the details of your business process.Like most good IT ideas, service-oriented architectures are a refinement of tools and technologies that have been around for some time. Software components aren't a new idea, and neither are workflow systems. Service models come from the combination of these ideas with a common data format in the shape of XML and XML schemas, along with open web service standards. It is wise to be careful, as development tools are still in their early stages, and it will be some time before the standards bodies come up with a way of describing services and service platforms, along with delivering the management tools they will need.Machine room consolidation may have made some tasks easier, but it has also brought to the fore the number of different systems businesses use. There's no such thing as a single platform - especially when you take into account the increasing number of storage appliances in use. Any   consolidation plan should also be seen as an opportunity to roll out a new set of management tools. If you haven't invested in a single management tool, now is as good a time as any. Industry standards are starting to deliver the tools needed for cross-platform management.At the very least, a management suite should make it easier to control and manage the many security    patches and updates you will need to deliver over the next year. It should also help you keep more control of your IT assets - from licences to storage and processing power. Reporting tools should also help you link IT decisions to business needs, by identifying critical systems, and helping prioritise services, and determine investment returns for upgrades and new development   projects. It is a big help when asking the board for new hardware and software if you can tell them exactly what effects upgrades will have on company cash flow!IT strategy is about more than the machine room and your servers, and a significant portion of any spend is going to be on your desktop systems. This year is likely to be a year when many companies refresh their desktop hardware, and it is also a year where workhorse operating systems such as Windows NT 4.0 and Windows 98 disappear.One option is to start planning a migration to Windows 2003 and Windows XP - especially with the arrival of security enhancements in Windows XP Service Pack 2. Windows isn't the only desktop option. Further releases of Sun's Linux-based Java Desktop System will add management features that will make it a plausible alternative to Windows desktops, and will make it possible to extend the life of existing hardware.There's much more you can do. Think about your storage strategy, especially in light of the current regulatory environment. Then there are your web applications. Are you supporting the browsers everyone is using, or have you missed a sudden change, such as Apple's release of its OS X browser Safari, which could disenfranchise possible customers? It is probably a good idea to take a look at your mobility strategy. Could smartphones and similar devices make it easier for your sales force to stay in contact with your CRM systems?Too many businesses see IT as a money pit that eats cash and delivers little visible business value. The IT industry trends of the past few years go a long way to changing that view of IT, giving business and IT the tools they need to speak a common language, and to build solutions that support the whole business.There's a lot happening in the world of IT. Perhaps the best resolution you can make for 2004 is to keep asking questions about how technology can make it easier for your company to do business and to keep making money.
Links&lt;A HREF="http://www.hardrockcafe.com"www.muzak.com" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.hardrockcafe.comwww.muzak.comHard rock is not as hard as it once was. A new system that sends music into Hard Rock Cafes via the internet means the chain of themed music cafes can ensure no songs with explicit language get played.Paul Farah, e-commerce fulfilment manager at Hard Rock Cafe International, expects more restaurant chains and retailers to centrally control their music so it reflects the company's image, and music can be paid for more efficiently.Companies can also use particular songs to gee up staff when they're running behind. For example, the Village People's YMCA is a favourite at Hard Rock for speeding up kitchen staff on busy days.Under the old system, the general manager of each cafe chose music on a PC linked to a CD changer that could take 250 CDs. Managers could play what they liked, though they were meant to exclude tracks unsuitable for family dining.Today, they can't play their favourite Eminem CD all day long. The new system is also less time consuming. Instead of having to pick a CD, then the tracks they want to play and which tracks they don't, managers just go to Hard Rock's intranet (in-house internet) site.They get a choice of music genres, such as rock and Florida Rock (such as Britney Spears and N Sync) and current music. When they select one, a list of tracks stored in a database at Hard Rock's Orlando, Florida, office will be played.Farah says: "Sometimes I'm talking to the London cafe and Britney Spears is singing Oops I did it again in the background, while at the same time I sit near the Florida database and I can hear it played here."For a new song to get to London, the song and its video must be downloaded on to the Florida database, from where it will be sent as an MPeg over the company's virtual private network to the London internet server. The song will be tagged with the name of the appropriate playlist and will be blasted out through the speakers when that playlist is chosen.London (and other) servers poll the Florida database every minute to see if there is new music available, but most songs get downloaded between midnight and 4am, when the network is less busy.When a cafe is to start using the system, a Cisco internet server with 700 songs and videos on it from the Florida database is shipped. A TV outlet is connected to each server so the videos can be broadcast simultaneously on the cafe's 30 or so screens.Because the MPeg video and audio files are large, it would cost too much to send each song over the network every time it was requested, says John Osowski, an engineer at Hard Rock.Cafes in different time zones won't necessarily be playing the same music at the same time. And in US Bible Belt areas such as South Carolina, or the mainly Mormon Salt Lake City, a so-called G-rated selection of music can be played. It is also possible to   get cleaner versions of some songs, with expletives from live shows bleeped out.Osowski reckons it costs around $6,000 to equip each site but says that despite the cost of sending songs around the world and shipping the servers, the system is good value.The company no longer has to buy as many CDs or CD changers, though its cafes now keep a DVD player that can play music and videos as a back up. And because individual songs can be downloaded from the net, it does not have to pay licence fees on whole CDs when it wants to include just one song in a playlist.The Florida database also provides a list of all the songs played on a given day so the company does not overpay on royalties.It opens up other possibilities, too. For example, the company could add the music that is playing in each cafe to the virtual tours it offers on its website. Or it could netcast a Hard Rock Cafe radio channel on its site, in a virtual equivalent of what UK high street chain Topshop achieves by having a DJ in its store."There are more companies doing this kind of thing than people realise. Gap pays a fee to Muzak, which pipes in music, and it can insert commercials into its playlist," says Farah.According to the Hawaii-based Brand Strategy Group: "Muzak, the company known for 'elevator music' has partnered with thousands of companies to find out what their businesses sound like. Sonic identities are really important."Farah is happy with Hard Rock Cafe's identity, and feels the main benefit of central control is that it knows what is being played at any given moment and gets no complaints about explicit content.
Cooler chipsAMD (Advanced Micro Devices) has extended its range of 64-bit Athlon 64 processors by adding three mobile chips and a version aimed at desktop PCs and "desktop replacement" notebooks. The company says they deliver high-end performance with digital media. Prices for the mobile processors range from $192 to $293 in quantities of 1,000, while the desktop replacement 3400+ chip costs $417. AMD is competing with Intel, which is expected to launch its Prescott chip -an updated Pentium 4 with extra multimedia instructions -next month. Also, Intel has started shipping cut-price Celeron versions of its Pentium-M processors.Not so smartMicrosoft says it has stopped development of its Smart Display flat screen terminals, which went on sale a year ago. The system, codenamed Mira, connected wirelessly to a Windows XP Pro desktop PC so users could move around with it. However, the screens were basically cut-down versions of Windows CE computers, and with prices starting at $799, seem to have proved uncompetitive with cheap and powerful notebook PCs.Tablet upgradeToshiba claims to be the first to incorporate a dual axis accelerometer in a notebook PC: it senses the orientation of the screen, and allows pages to be scrolled in any direction by tilting the computer. This is one of the features of Toshiba's new Tablet PC, based on Intel's Centrino wireless chipset. The M200 (around &#163;1,300) retains the swivel-screen format of the current Port&#233;g&#233; 3500 but has a faster 1.5GHz Pentium-M chip. For desktop use, the system has a specially designed docking station that can be tilted up and down for normal pen use or as a monitor with separate keyboard and mouse.www.csd.toshiba.comVirtual keysThe Virtual Laser Keyboard attaches to a handheld PDA (personal digital assistant) and projects an image of a full-sized keyboard on to the surface of a desk. Users then type on this image to enter data into the PDA. The laser system detects the position of the fingers and transmits this to the device. iBiz Technology says the first model, costing around &#163;60, will be available for Palm, Pocket PC and desktop or notebook PCs in the next few months. Later in the year, a version will be available later for mobile phones.www.ibizcorp.comGone phishingNetcraft is offering a service it claims can help identify "phishing" sites. Customers of banks and financial services organisations have been hit by these false internet shop fronts, which are designed to lure them into revealing their authentication and log-on details. Netcraft surveys 46m websites, and says it can search for commonly used phrases, trademarks and domain names. Combined with spam monitoring and security certificates, it allows the company to find suspicious sites that might otherwise go undetected.http://news.netcraft.com/archives/security.htmlReverse gearCovisint is selling its B2B (business to business) auction service for the automotive industry to FreeMarkets. The service was created by General Motors, Ford and Daimler Chrysler to offer a reverse auction marketplace for parts suppliers. The so-called Dutch auction approach of undercutting competitors' bids for supplying goods and services has become unpopular with some suppliers in the economic downturn. The business has also been investigated in the US for anti-competitive practices. By selling the auction to FreeMarkets, the Covisint partners -along with later recruits such as Volkswagen, Toyota and Renault/Nissan - free themselves of that burden, and will concentrate on supplying management portals and data messaging services.www.freemarkets.comOne year leftOrganisations across the state sector have just one more year to prepare for the Freedom of Information Act 2000, which comes into force in England, Wales and Northern Ireland on January 1, 2005, with parallel legislation in Scotland. The Foreign Office, which last week released 6,500 files under the 30-year rule, says that by next January it will be ready to release data that is 30 weeks, 30 days or even 30 minutes old. The act will allow anyone to request information from a state sector body and, with some exceptions, receive the information within 20 working days.www.dca.gov.uk/foi/foidpunit.htmAuction warningConsumers should treat auction sites as if they were private ads in newspapers rather than retailers, according to the Department of Trade and Industry. It says buyers should check details of the goods and whether postage and insurance are included. It suggests checking sellers' reputations, and finding out if they are in the UK, or at least an EU country. If not, there is little legal recourse if goods are faulty or not delivered. The DTI recommends auction buyers use a credit card, which can offer compensation if there are problems, or an escrow service, where the payment is released only when the buyer confirms receipt.www.consumer.gov.uk/consumer_web/e-shopping.htm
The Office of Communications (Ofcom) chose the end of the year to announce a change that will make 2004 memorable for many rural communities. On December 29, the day it started regulating telecoms and broadcasting, Ofcom stated that frequencies between 5.725GHz and 5.85GHz - known as 5.8GHz B and C - will be opened for rural wireless broadband internet access. "Broadband Britain should be for all of Britain - not just urban communities," said Stephen Carter, chief executive of Ofcom.Affordable broadband is now available to more than 85% of Britons through ADSL, the technology that piggybacks on telephone lines. But in November, e-commerce minister Stephen Timms said that wireless, or short-range radio, technology is the key to reaching the parts that other broadbands don't reach. BT is already testing this in four locations as a way of extending the range of its telephone exchanges.Compared with the licences for third-generation (3G) mobile networks, auctioned in April 2000 for &#163;22.5bn, 5.8GHz will be very cheap. Initially, Ofcom will charge &#163;1 a year for each terminal installed, with a   minimum of &#163;50 a year for each provider. The licences, the first of which will be granted later this month, will enable data transfer speeds of up to one megabit per second: 18 times the maximum speed of a dial-up modem, and twice as fast as standard ADSL.Ofcom says that 5.8GHz services have a range of up to 6km (3.7 miles), although local topography often cuts this to a couple of kilometres - but that compares well with the few hundred metres range of Wi-Fi. And 5.8GHz can be extended through a "mesh wireless" network, where users connect through other users. It does require a fixed external aerial, and so does not have Wi-Fi's mobility.Ofcom says it will award licences with a light touch: forms are available on its website, although they must be sent in by post. Successful applicants will administer their licence online.Will this help? Austen Stanley, who is campaigning for broadband at the Fladbury exchange inWorcestershire, is not convinced. "If I was in the middle of Scotland or Wales, it would become interesting," he says. But with Fladbury having 173 registrations against a BT trigger level for conversion of 300, he thinks it makes more sense to   campaign for registrations than try to set up a wireless scheme, even if licences are cheap. "When BT issued its 2,300 trigger levels &#91;in November, providing them for exchanges connecting 99.1% of the population&#93; it killed the competition dead," he says.Others are already investigating fixed wireless - and its drawbacks.Residents of Earls Colne in Essexare hoping to share a broadband link with a nearby business park on higher ground. "We can run it off a fairly small aerial, but it needs to have a line of sight," says local campaigner Shaun Thomas. "And how will it cope with volume &#91;of traffic&#93; or with bad weather? It needs to be tested."Angela Vivian has helped establish    a wireless service inWedmore in Somerset. It opened in June and now charges 31 business customers &#163;21.90 a month for a one megabit service, taking advantage of a government subsidy and equipment donated by Cisco. It uses wireless to share four satellite links among its customers, and will be extended to three nearby villages over the next three months."There's much more to doing wireless than removing some bureaucratic layers," says Vivian. "What happens inside the house? Who does the maintenance? What happens if they want more than one link?" She believes such schemes can create community spirit, but require work.The 5.8GHz frequency band has previously been employed by the military and broadcasters - and both will continue to use it. The government says interference with military users will be prevented by dynamic frequency selection, which avoids using frequencies already in use, and transmission power control, so signals are only as powerful as they need to be, making interference less likely.However, to prevent interference with outside broadcasts, Ofcom will not award 5.8Ghz licences in 22 areas until problems can be resolved, which may take a year. These exclude anywhere within 20km (12.4 miles) of Westminster and Sutton Coldfield in the West Midlands, as well as 20 other 10km-radius exclusion zones. There are exclusion zones around St Andrews and Royal Troon golf courses, and the site of the Glastonbury festival near Pilton in Somerset.Vivian questions the need for a full-time exclusion zone: "Cameras are in place for one or two weeks of the year - there must be a way around this."Matt Peacock, head of communications at Ofcom, says it makes more sense to solve this problem permanently than allow services that would need to be suspended for broadcasts.He adds that last week's announcement is the first of many on broadband, with plans to free spectrum, including licence-holders trading unused bandwidth, rather than returning it to the regulator for reallocation.
It's not everyday you can participate in a groundbreaking techno-cultural event and show the world your hidden creative side. Not everyday you can pass off blurry photos of, say, your unmade bed or the rubbish you see on the way to work as avant garde art. But if you have a cameraphone, you can do all this and more, by contributing to Sent, an exhibition of "cameraphone art", due to open online and at the SixSpace Gallery in Los Angeles next month.The show will have two strands, explains co-curator Xeni Jardin (who co-edits the leading techno-culture blog BoingBoing. Established artists and photographers will show cameraphone shots, displayed as prints in the gallery, but Sent will also feature images from the public. Anyone who is interested can contribute via the exhibition website, Jardin explains. During the exhibition, work sent by the public will appear on flat screen plasma displays. "Images will refresh at a given rate, so you will constantly see a randomly selected batch of images from the public, some of which may be contributed in real time. We're going to keep the contribution process open throughout the event."Sent comes at an opportune moment. The media only had eyes for the iPod this Christmas. But other gadgets also had a good festive season. According to Carphone Warehouse's managing director of retail, Jonathan Hook, cameraphones started to become more mass-market entertainment. "In the build-up to Christmas, over 90% of the phones we were selling on subscription were cameraphones. On the pre-pay side, we had cameraphones for under &#163;100. It was the first time they had been at that price point and it was a key driver of volume sales."Data released last month indicates that 2003 was a good year for the gadget, both in the US and Europe. Research firm Canalys also reported that 4.9m cameraphones shipped in Europe, the Middle East and Africa in the third quarter of last year - 27% more than the previous quarter. The total for the year is expected to be 16m. Canalys predicts that figure will double in 2004.One sign of increasing popularity is growing media panic about cameraphones, surveillance and personal privacy. Last month the business consultancy Meta advised companies not to buy the gadgets for corporate use, suggesting they could be used to leak important intelligence or generate potentially embarrassing images.Last year saw a steady stream of press stories about the new technology being banned by companies, gyms, galleries and schools, both in   Europe and the US. The media has also focused on so-called cameraphone crimes - in particular "upskirting" (using them to take voyeuristic snaps of women on the street) and "digital shoplifting" which uses the gadget to surreptitiously snap images from magazines and books to share with friends."Concerns about privacy are more important as time goes on," says Jardin. "With this, we have a surveil lance technology in the hands of everyone. All of a sudden, everyone is big brother." That can bring benign effects as well as problems. Take the widely reported story of Sam Gedeon, a Swedish grocer who scared off the man holding up his store by snapping him with his phone. It will take a while to see what changes camera-phones bring about, says Jardin.So does Sent offer any clues about future developments? Images sent so   far show that cameraphones "spark a heightened aesthetic awareness of one's everyday environment," says Jardin. "People don't carry digital cameras with them all day. And even if they do, a digital camera can't capture, share and publish images." Consequently, the images they take are of things people wouldn't normally photograph (or previously would not have been able to capture).Jardin's observations echo those of   Mizuko Ito, an anthropologist at the University of Southern California and Keio University in Japan. Ito has been researching mobile use in Japan. (Her initial discoveries are previewed in the Japan Media Review). For many people, a cameraphone becomes a photo album you carry around with you, says Ito, one filled with images you plan to keep for a day or two that might interest you and your close friends but are a long way from traditional wedding/travel snaps. "People with cameraphones start to have this consciousness that everything in their everyday life is potentially something shareable," says Ito. "We used to tell each other stories. You'd say: 'On the way to work I saw this great new coffee shop.' Now you can snap a photo and that visual information is part of the storytelling."Many users upload cameraphone images to the web, archiving them in so-called moblogs. It's a way of saving images, says Ito, though the pictures saved are very ephemeral.There has been speculation that cameraphones will enable a grassroots movement of citizen journalists able to instantly expose street-level abuses of power. But some anti-surveillance activists worry that the gadgets will encourage users to "play detective" and snoop on neighbours without cause. It has been suggested that cameraphones might turn everyone into potential paparazzi. There are instances of famous people being caught out by the new technology. Last year, Dutch footballer Patrick Kluivert's denials that he had been up late partying before a big Euro 2004 qualifying game were undermined when fans sent to a local radio station cameraphone shots of the striker enjoying himself at a rave.Some analysts in the US are unconvinced the gadgets will catch on. But Ito suggests that cameraphones may have a wider appeal (especially to older users) than text messaging. Hook agrees and predicts increased sales over the next year, as prices fall and the technology improves. He points out that new handsets capable of taking higher resolution pictures are on the way.
Google is now the world's most powerful website, and if it goes public this year, its young founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, will become extremely rich. Their five-year-old company has already cracked its biggest problem, which is how to make pots of money from selling advertising space without carrying any banner ads. And while there are other places to search the web, most websites are now dependent on Google for a large proportion of their new visitors. The question that drives all but a few commercial webmasters today is: "How do I change my site to make it appear on the first page when someone searches Google?"What is even more impressive is that Google has achieved its supremacy by word of mouth: by delivering what users want. That has helped it retain users' confidence while doing things that might have raised concerns about invasion of privacy elsewhere. For example, Google almost certainly knows more about you than you would tell your mother. Did you ever search for information about Aids, cancer, mental illnesses or bomb-making equipment? Google knows, because it has put a unique reference number in a permanent cookie on your hard drive (which doesn't expire until 2038). It also knows your internet (IP) address.Google's privacy policy says that it "notes and saves information such as time of day, browser type, browser language, and IP address with each query. That information is used to verify our records and to provide more relevant services to users. For example, Google may use your IP address or browser language to determine which language to use    when showing search results or advertisements." (Seewww.google.com/privacy.html).If you add the Google Toolbar to your Windows browser, then it can send Google information about the pages you view, and Google can update the Toolbar code automatically, without asking you. However, you can disable the Toolbar's "advanced features" by going to the Google menu and selectingprivacy information. And it isn't "spyware" because Google isn't collecting information to sell, just to provide you with better searches.People could also get better results simply by improving their search techniques. Few bother, which is a pity, because fruitless searches waste a lot of time. If you make more than a dozen searches a day, then a small improvement in your techniques can deliver dramatic benefits. With that in mind, here are my top 10 search tips.Imagine what you wantIt may sound obvious, but you have to search Google for the words that will be on the page you want, not for a description of the page or website. For example, if you wanted to find a comparative review of various PDAs, then - using the convention that anything inside square brackets is what you would type into Google - you could search for &#91;comparative review of pdas&#93;. The alternative is to imagine the sort of review you want. It will probably include the words Palm, Pocket PC, iPaq and Clie, so instead, try searching for &#91;review palm pocket pc ipaq clie&#93;.Use quotation marksIf you search for, say, &#91;John Adams&#93;, Google will find all the pages with   John and all the pages with Adams, even if the words are unconnected. This finds 3.6m hits. However, if you put the words in quotation marks, this tells Google to treat them as one unit. Using &#91;"John Adams"&#93; eliminates 3m hits. It is especially important to use quotes if you are looking for something that includes a "stop word". These are the words Google ignores, because they are too common. They include: a, about, are, at, by, from, I, in, of, how, la, that, the, this, to, will, who, what, where, and when. If you search for the band &#91;the smiths&#93; then Google will ignore "the," the stop word, so it is better to search for &#91;"the smiths"&#93;. However, if your search only contains stop words, Google will search for them, though &#91;"the who"&#93; still works better than &#91;the who&#93;.Use the + signAnother way to make sure Google includes a particular word in its search is to put a plus sign in front of it.Use the - signThe plus sign adds a word to a search so using a minus sign takes one away. This is very useful as a way of eliminating lots of hits you don't want. I frequently search for technical information on stupidly difficult things such as transferring files from a MiniDisc player to a PC, and often get deluged with results from shopping and price comparison sites such as Dealtime, Kelkoo and Bizrate. Many of these can be eliminated by adding -merchant to the search term.Try a wild cardSome experienced searchers don't like Google because they think it doesn't allow them to exploit hard-won skills in creating Boolean searches using "wild cards" and AND and OR commands (see below). But Google understands more than it often lets on. For example, suppose you want to find a number of quiz sites that decide what kind of flower, bird, geek or tin-pot dictator you are.   You will probably be surprised to hear that searching for &#91;"what * am I"&#93; will do that, with the asterisk acting as a "wild card" for any word. You can also use two or more asterisks together for longer phrases. Searching for &#91;"from * to * pc"&#93; can be useful, and wild cards are not counted in the 10-word search allowance.Use the site: commandLook at a page of Google results and you should notice that some hits are indented. This is because many sites would produce thousands of hits for a term, but Google shows only two from each site. It indents the second result and adds a link that offers "More results from" that site. For example, search for &#91;"nathan milstein"&#93; then scroll down and click on the link for "more results link for classical.onino.co.uk". This restricts the hits to that site. Now if you look in the search box, you will see that it says site:classical.onino.co.uk. This is the site: command, and you   can type it in directly to search any site you like. It helps, of course, if the site has a short name, such as imdb.com &#91;tampopo dvd site:imdb.com&#93;. The neat thing is that you don't have to use a whole site name: you can search or exclude whole domains. For example, you can search for &#91;tampopo dvd site:co.uk&#93; or &#91;tampopo dvd -site:com&#93;.Use the operatorsThe site: operator is one of a long list that Google understands. These include filetype: (eg doc or pdf), intext: and allintext:, intitle: and allintitle:, inurl: and allinurl:, author: (in Google Groups) and location: (in Google News). What is the rest of the world saying about Beagle 2? Search for &#91;beagle+2 -location:uk&#93; to find out.Google also understands a logical OR, as long as it is in caps. This means you can search for a hotel in Leeds OR Bradford, for example. It is very useful when people, places or things have alternative or variable spellings: &#91;outsourcing bombay OR mumbai&#93;. The OR command can be shortened to a vertical bar (|), as in &#91;outsourcing bombay | mumbai&#93;. Another way of adding alternatives is to use a twidde or tilde character (~). Thus if you search for &#91;~food&#93;, Google also searches for cooking, cuisine, nutrition, recipes and restaurants.The Advanced Search pageFortunately, you don't have to learn all these special operators to use them. All you have to do is click on Google's Advanced Search link. This brings up a form with drop-down menu choices that lets anyone make complex searches without even thinking about it. This page includes   options to search a particular period or pages in a specified language.Other enhanced searchesGoogle is always adding new features, and as well as being a search engine, it also works as a dictionary (define:),a glossary, and avery powerful calculator. It can even work out &#91;the answer to life, the universe and everything&#93;. But Google has also opened up its programming interface (API) so that other people can create applications to search its database of web pages. So far, most of these experiments are not very useful, but you can search recently added pages atGooFreshand compare results for keywords atGoogleFight. For more examples, seewww.voelspriet.nl/googletools.htm.Try a different search engineGoogle is wonderful, there's no doubt about that. However, it does not always find the pages you want, so it is just as well to keep some alternatives handy. The main ones include stalwartsAlta VistaandAll The Web, plus VivisimoVivisimo.comandTeoma. There are also "metasearch" search engines such asDogpileandMetacrawler, which will send your query to several search engines at once. Google knows you have a choice, and it doesn't hurt to exercise it from time to time.
Not too many American's are familiar with the Amiga -- a US-designed machine that had its greatest success in Germany and the UK -- but Mercury News Technology Columnist Dan Gillmor gave it a namecheck in his column on MacExpo. He wrote that "while Jobs is one of the world's greatest product pitchmen, he isn't above exaggerating, or worse, in his keynotes. On Tuesday, for example, he noted the 20th anniversary of the Macintosh and said it was '10 years ahead of the rest of the industry.' Come on. The Mac was a great advance, for sure. But the Commodore Amiga, which also appeared in the 1980s, upped the ante even if it didn't ultimately prevail in the market."The Amiga had much better colour graphics and sound than the Mac, which was monochrome at the time, and the Mac couldn't multitask as well as a 1985 Amiga until OS X came out. (The Amiga was widely used to produce professional television graphics and won an Emmy for Babylon-5.) Another advantage of the Amiga, of course, was that you didn't have to pay the sort of prices Apple gouged out of unfortunate UK buyers. At one time, it was roughly as cheap for a Londoner to buy a Mac in New Yorkincluding the cost of the airfare.
RealNetworks is putting a 99c music download store into RealPlayer 10, whereas previously it has only offered a subscription service. "RealNetworks is also adopting the AAC (advanced audio coding) format for its music store, and is acquiring an exclusive license for RollingStone.com, the online presence of Rolling Stone magazine," saysIDG News Service."RealPlayer 10 is the first major new version of RealNetworks' media player in two years. It will play RealNetworks' own audio formats as well as Microsoft's Windows Media Audio (WMA), Apple Computer's QuickTime, and the secure versions of those, says Dan Sheeran, senior vice president of marketing at RealNetworks, in Seattle."Update: Also, people with some Palm handhelds will be able to play AAC music from the Real store. This applies to the "Zire 71 handheld and most Tungsten handhelds" with the Treo to follow, saysPalmOne.
Amazon.com, the biggest online retailer in the world, is being investigated by the UK record industry as part of a bid to stop consumers buying cheap CDs imported from abroad.Record industry trade body the British Phonographic Industry is looking at whether the US website breaks the law by selling American CDs to UK consumers at cheaper prices. It is not investigating Amazon.co.uk, which only sells domestically sourced CDs.The development comes as the BPI is preparing a lawsuit against UK-based retailer CDWow, which buys CDs at low prices overseas and distributes them from Hong Kong, undercutting high street stores by selling them at £8.99 each with free delivery.The site has proved a huge success, with annual turnover in excess of £100m, but the BPI argues that CDWow breaks the law by importing CDs from outside the European Economic Area and selling them at cheaper prices than UK retailers without the consent of copyright owners.The case will be heard in the high court next month and CDWow is planning a robust defence, arguing that all necessary copyrights are being paid by CDWow's suppliers and that consent to supply worldwide was given by record companies on a global basis when the business was set up.The BPI has also launched proceedings against Play.com, a Jersey-based online retailer of CDs, DVDs and video games, which operates on a similar basis.Amazon.com could be drawn into the row because it sells CDs to UK customers that are not available in this country and undercuts traditional high street retailers. The BPI could argue that they are acting without the consent of UK record companies.The case has echoes of an earlier high profile court showdown between Tesco and Levi's after the supermarket giant began selling cut-price jeans bought from abroad. Levi-Strauss won that action but CDWow insists there are crucial differences between the two cases.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
BT hopes to significantly boost the number of people connecting to the internet while on the move by signing a deal to put "wi-fi hotspots" in more than 500 McDonald's restaurants across the country.Telecoms companies hope the technology, which allows laptop users to connect to the internet wirelessly when they are close to a so-called "hotspot" in a hotel, coffee shop, airport or other public area, will take off in a big way in 2004.The BT Openzone areas will be installed in the McDonald's flagship London fast food restaurants in The Strand, Oxford Street and Liverpool Street and most of its drive-through outlets around Britain.BT is banking on the service being a big hit with business travellers who want to check their emails or log on to the internet while on the move. And cafes, coffee shops and shopping centres are hoping that by installing the technology they will attract more custom.The McDonalds' deal will take the total number of Openzone hotspots to more than 2,000 by the end of March. The telecoms giant recently launched a new service aimed at small businesses to allow them to set up their own hotspots quickly and easily.It has also launched a new pay-as-you go option for subscribers to BT Openzone, which currently costs around £10 a month for 120 minutes' access."The scale of BT's network means that wireless broadband is growing from a premium offering for the few into something that will become part of everyone's lives, whether that's for work or simply surfing the web or emailing friends as a pay as you go customer," said Steve Andrews, the managing director of BT's products and enterprise division.The new pay-as-you-go system is seen a step to solving the access problems that have plagued the roll out of the technology to date.Because laptop users usually need to have a subscription with the relevant hotspot provider, many have been reluctant to take the plunge for fear of not being able to find a hotspot that corresponds to their existing internet service provider.In an effort to promote wireless internet access beyond computer geeks and business users, BT and other hotspot providers are promoting Wireless Broadband Week, allowing anyone with a suitable laptop or handheld computer to try out the technology free of charge for the week beginning January 26.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Apple Computer last night announced it is to sell a cheaper version  of its iPod music player, in a drive to further bolster its dominance  of the digital music market.Steve Jobs, the company's chief executive, launched the new iPod  Mini in a keynote speech at the start of the MacWorld show in San  Francisco.The new machines will cost $249 (£138), $50 less than the  cheapest current iPod.The iPod Minis will also be smaller than existing models, at half an  inch thick and the same size as a business card. Their aluminium  shells will come in silver, gold, blue, pink or green and have 4Gb of  storage, capable of holding about 1,000 songs.The iPod Mini is intended to bridge a gap between the bulk of the  rapidly growing music player market, and Apple's more expensive  full-size iPods, although the iPod Mini is more capable - and more  expensive - than many of its rivals.Mr Jobs said the company was now "going after" the portion of the  market dominated by digital music players that use memory chips.  California-based Rio Audio dominates this end of the market, which  accounts for about 62% of sales, with music players that typically  hold fewer than 100 songs are priced between $100 and $200. Mr  Jobs said the iPod range had "a really successful holiday quarter",  selling 730,000 between October and December.With more than 2m iPods sold since its launch two years ago, Apple  says it has now has about 31% of the music player market, and 55%  of revenues. Apple will announce its results for the quarter next  week.The iPod drives sales of 99 cent-a-time songs through the  company's iTunes music store. The store, launched in April 2003,  has now sold more than 30m songs, and has 70% of the legal  download market.The new iPods go on sale in the US next month and will reach Britain  in April. This may coincide with the launch of the iTunes music store  in Europe.
Well, that was fun. Steve Jobs' keynote, as expected, was very music centric, although he opened with a nod to the Mac's 20th birthday this year. He harked back tothatad, run during the 1984 SuperBowl, which announced the arrival of the first Mac, and screened asubtly remadeversion to wild acclaim in the hall.But grabbing the headlines will be the newiPod minis, which are tiny wee things: half an inch thick, and around the same size as a business card. We were bathing in the glow of their bite-sized elegance, until we learned the UK pricing.They'll cost $249 in the US, which works out at £138 at today's exchange rate. But when they eventually reach the UK - in April - they'll cost £199. Either Steve Jobs knows something we don't about where exchange rates are going, or Apple's having a laugh at our considerable expense. I'd bring some over for y'all, but they don't go on sale here until February.In other news, there's a revamp of theiLifesuite, including a good-looking music sequencer calledGarageBand. You can mix 64 tracks of loops, software instruments, live audio and live guitar put through one of half a dozen software amplifiers.MusicianJohn Mayerwas on stage earlier to put the package through its paces and made a very credible track although, quite clearly, having oodles of musical talent helps a great deal. Apple got the pricing right, too - the entire iLife package, including revamps of iTunes, iMovie, iDVD and iPhoto will cost $49, and come free with new Macs. It looks nice, although after previous dodgy experiences with iLife I'll reserve judgement until I've used a copy for a few weeks.There's a new version ofFinal Cut Express 2, Microsoft's launching a new version of Office for Mac in the Spring, and the server room Macheads will have new XServe and XServe RAID storage systems to play with too.
It's worth prefacing this contribution with a warning. Much of what you are about to read is speculation, fuelled by nothing more than the bonfire of "he said", "she said", and "I heard in an internet chatroom" that is the Mac rumour mill in holiday season.If anyone is discussing what Apple chief executive Steve Jobs will unveil in his new year keynote to the January MacExpo conference, only one thing's for sure: there are a few things we know for sure.That doesn't stop the world of Mac fandom from speculating, and looking forward to today's show. Part of the reason they are so keen is that Jobs delivers his speech with the kind of panache and theatrical presentation that makes it worth watching. But the fans also love the fact there will always be a surprise.Once, only once, the surprise was that there was no surprise. But mostly, despite the rumour mill's energy and impressive output, the gossips rarely get all the components of a Steve Jobs keynote spot on. And that's part of the fun.Take last year, when Apple users approached the show with some gloom. As well as a sluggish economy, which was taking its toll on the entire technology sector, Apple itself was being talked down by supposedly in-the-know analysts and pundits. One US investment house even downgraded Apple stock to a "sell", berating the company for its "skimpy" product development line.The analyst who penned that must have had a difficult day after Jobs took to the stage. Apple's CEO promised enough announcements for "two Macworlds", and promptly delivered two new laptops, a new web browser and revamps for a range of the company's digital media applications.So what of this year? The smart money is on the iPod music player taking centre stage. There has been persistent talk of changes to Apple's hottest product for some time and, given its importance to Apple's reputation and bottom line (it's made Apple more relevant, and profitable), it seems to make sense that the company would want to keep the range fresh.The gossips can't agree on what, exactly, will happen, however.Think Secret, a well-regarded gossip site, suggests Jobs' keynote will be "music centric". It reports with some conviction that Apple will launch new low-end mini iPods in a range of colours, "including stripes", with prices starting at a remarkably low $100 (£55) for a machine that could hold 400 songs.Audiorevolution.comcorrectly notes that such a device, which might use flash memory rather than a hard drive to store the music, would provide a major boost to Apple's iTunes Music Store.Think Secret also predicts Apple will also offer coloured cases for the existing iPod range, and revamp its iLife digital media suite, which was launched at last year's show. The site has the distinction of being proved right on one prediction already. Its prediction of a new version of the video editing package,  Final Cut Express, has already been fulfilled after copies were spotted at a US computer store byMacrumors.comspies.But that vindication doesn't stop Apple Insider from boldly contradicting Think Secret's assertion that there will be no computer hardware announcements at the keynote. Apple Insider predictsnew G5 desktopsfor professional Mac users and a long-awaitedupgradeto Apple's XServe server. The latter prediction comes complete with more information than you'll likely want to know on problems with the new machine's self-diagnosis systems.In its grandrumour roundupMacrumors.com notes Apple has trademarked the term iWrite, which has - no prizes for guessing - led to suggestions the company will continue its process of offering an alternative to popular Microsoft programs by unveiling a new word processor. Safari, a web browser, and Keynote, a rival to PowerPoint, are already produced by Apple.And if all these rumours seem a little pragmatic, you could always turn to the more wild suggestions being offered in some quarters.The Registerclaimed in December that a new, cheaper iMac was being planned, despite the recent launch of a version of Apple's consumer desktop computer with a 20-inch screen. The site also speculates that the company will use the Mac's 20th anniversary to launch a "special" Mac; a tablet computer is their bet for what could be waiting in the wings for us tomorrow.I'm not holding my breath. But, as experience tells us, you never know. With Apple's reputation for surprise innovations, you'd have to be rash to make any predictions.&#183;Neil McIntosh will post first details of Apple's announcements on Online's weblog,Onlineblog.com, from 8pm this evening. Fuller details will be on Guardian Unlimited tomorrow.
I have never understood why anyone would want to gamble in a virtual environment. Everything about it is unreal, except the part where they take your money away. Why not just throw the money away, and dispense with all the tiresome mouse-clicking? But the news that poker is Britain's fastest-growing form of online gambling made me think again. It is estimated that &#163;40m a day is currently being staked at online poker parlours. A six-fold increase in the number of players over the course of 2003 is likely to be repeated this year. Poker, as everybody knows, is a game not of chance but of cunning, mathematics, psychology - and chance. At last the expert poker player can work from home, fleecing the beginners from the privacy of his bedroom.Sadly, I am not an expert poker player, or even a very good one. I am not even very good at being online. An attempt to set myself up playing poker atwww.ladbrokespoker.comwent awry from the outset, ironically because I already have an online account at Ladbrokes, on a defunct debit card that could no longer deposit funds or be used to close out a modest, longstanding credit. After a quick call to customer support, and a long chat with a woman who had occasion to say "Shan't keep you a moment!" no less than a dozen times, I was ready to log on.On the internet you have no poker face, which is good news for those of us who like to jump up and down when we are dealt a pair of fours. The only weapon with which you can intimidate and confuse your opponents is your online player name. It must be selected with tremendous care. After some deliberation I chose LordLucan - heartless, famously unlucky at cards (that ought to reel 'em in), with a good reason to be gambling from a remote location. Alas, the name was taken, for all I know by the genuine article. My second choice, TroubledLoner, had too many characters. Finally, I settled on a simple but unsettling mixture of menace and milquetoast: BadChris.As BadChris I intended to stalk the five-card draw tables until I had parlayed my deposit into a substantial nest egg, leaving nothing but flat-broke farm boys and housewives in my wake. But there weren't any five-card draw tables. No one seems to offer draw poker online, and this is really the only kind of poker that I know how to play. They offer Omaha, but I don't even know what that is. Eventually I found a seven-card stud table with a game in progress and a seat available. I drew up nice and slow and sat myself down (click!) with my $50 in chips (it's all in American money; current gambling laws prevent poker sites from operating in Britain) floating above my chair. On the running commentary alongside the virtual table, the ominous words "BadChris sits down" appeared. All over the world, I fancied, people were swallowing their gum.What followed was a lot of flashing and beeping that did not help to refresh my basic understanding of seven-card stud. The graphics, no doubt sufficient for a veteran of the virtual tables, were very difficult to interpret: who is doing what? Why is it all happening so fast? Whenever it was my turn I was prompted by a box that offered all the options open to me: CALL, RAISE, FOLD. It blinked insistently while I tried to figure out what I had in my hand. I chose without thinking. Then the phone rang. By the time I got off I had parlayed my $50 into $10.20. I turned off the computer, went into another room and thought about what I had done.It was time for a fresh start. I went to another site,www.pokerroom.com, and sat through a patronising but ultimately helpful tutorial on the ins and outs of Texas Hold 'Em. Then I logged on to a practice game - play money only - in which BadChris was represented as a 3D character, a nerdy guy with glasses, seated among other 3D characters. Here were Johnnyboy60, T-Roy5, fresh daddy, McFly_81(Maria Stein) and the estimable Smoky20. I bought $1,000 worth of chips with my pretend money. After the first hand I was actually up by $2. Fifteen minutes later and I was up $136. I was feeling confident.Looking around the edges of the screen, I saw that there was a facility for me to chat with my opponents, although no one had availed themselves of it in the half hour I had been online. I decided to get the ball rolling.BadChris: nice christmas?No one answered. I raised $10, two people folded. A pair of fives came up on the flop. No use to me. Then -T-roy5: so is anyone else here from detroit?I pocketed my winnings and headed for another table. After five minutes' play I cleared my virtual throat.BadChris: you know what? I could sure go for a muffin right about nowGreathand77: did u mean muffhelensmum: im having a muffin right nowBadChris: what kind is it?helensmum: blueberryGreathand77: lmaoI was chatting and playing at the same time. I was holding my own at Texas Hold 'Em, a game whose rules have always eluded me. I felt I was ready to play for real money again. I put another $50 dent in my credit card and found a table where the stakes were $2-4. This, as it turned out, was a little rich for my blood. Most of the players came to the table with three or four times the amount of money that I had brought and could force me out of a hand at will. I didn't fold when I should have, and when I did it was too late. There was no time to chat here; the robot moderator kept saying, "BadChris! It's your turn to act! Hurry up!". I hesitated, and I lost. The whole 50 went in three hands.Very much chastened, I went back to Ladbrokes, ponied up another 50, and sat in on a game where the stakes were never higher than 50 cents and the pot averaged $16. I joined in, played eight cautious hands and lost half my money. I was ready to give up when I was dealt an ace and a two in the pocket; I hung around because of the ace, but another two came up on the flop, and then miraculously, another two on the turn. Meanwhile the player to my left had driven everyone else out with his high-handed betting. I looked at his pathetic username, andypoke, and decided he couldn't beat three twos on his momma's birthday. I raised him 50 cents. He called. I won. I logged off with $49.40 in chips, just 60 cents down on the day if you don't count the 100 bucks I lost earlier. And if you don't count the money I'm going to lose tonight after my wife goes to bed.
Today's New York Times was full of good stuff, and I got to go through most of it in the time it took to consume the World's Largest Breakfast that was served up, somewhat unexpectedly, in the diner downstairs. The story that caught my eye most was one by Matt Richtel, who has been looking at thedebatesurrounding the regulation of internet telephony. Basically, all the big telcos in the US are jumping on internet telephony as a way of escaping hefty taxes and surcharges applied to conventional telephone tariffs. Thus, they can offer dramatically lower phone bills to users. The downside is the money is used to take the US phone service to every far-flung corner of the nation, and to supply cheap telephony to the elderly and poor. The phone companies don't flinch from spelling out their desire to escape their existing obligations. Richard Notebaert, CEO of Qwest, says of regulation and universal service: "I do not think it should be retained at all." It's a fine example of how an apparently innocuous internet technology could bring about quite tumultuous change for offline society. The internet revolution has barely begun...
...is that they might say things you don't approve of.Ben Hammersleyhas some interesting thoughts onthatToday programme poll, and how it relates to the Howard Dean campaign and the "internet democracy" being bigged-up by many online commentators here in the US. "If you're looking to use the net to redesign democracy you'd be wise to be careful what you wish for, lest it come true," notes Ben.
Good morning, btw, from San Francisco, where I arrived yesterday for the start of a week-long tech-show frenzy. Tomorrow I'm at MacExpo for Steve Jobs' keynote, always full of surprises, and then it's off to Las Vegas on Wednesday for Bill Gates' keynote at the Consumer Electronics Show. I'll be blogging as I go - you'll get first news of both keynotes here - and also doing plenty for the newspaper, Online andGuardian Unlimitedon the latest stuff at both shows.
Those enterprising chaps at theLondon News Reviewmight be struggling to launch the magazine that bears their company's name, but progress continues apace at their website. They've just announced they're launching a premium version of the excellentLondon by Londonnewsletter (url updated 18/10/04), with extra dating and social stuff, more posts and access to their archive, all for £10 a year.But what of the magazine, last seen in prototype form for launch subscribers back in October? The magazine's website is pretty good, but their prototype magazine was, by common consent, pretty bad. It looked, and read, surprisingly like a poor sixth-form magazine, rather than a"funny, thought-provoking, influential and absolutely un-put-down-able"weekly. Much of that was to do with the team apparently not having the arcane skills required to put together something in print, rather than online. So why don't they just use the skills, and business model, that's served them well thus far, and make it a (daily?) email update, with associated subscribers-only website? Is the prestige of print, and their desire for that prestige, so strong they want to risk it?
Three years after being  re-awarded the licence  to run the National Lottery,  Camelot finally  launched its main draw,  Lotto, on the internet  last week. It's a big development in the  company's £45m new-media strategy  which also involves the introduction of  lottery play via interactive TV and  mobile phones. But with an estimated  700-plus companies already offering  British punters ways to gamble electronically,  Camelot's move raises just  one question: why has it taken so long?Incorporating the internet and  mobile-phone technology into game  play has been in Camelot's sights for  several years. Even so, it was only  early last year that the National Lottery  went beyond offering the latest  winning numbers via the most basic  of websites to introduce instant win  games and scratchcards online. And  this despite the rapid expansion of  internet, interactive TV and even  mobile phone-based gaming and, of  course, decline in lottery sales.Ticket sales for Lotto dropped 12%  in 2002/2003 - from more than  £3.8bn in 2001/2002 to £3.4bn,  Camelot confirmed last May. While  figures for non-Lotto games were up  21%, the sales for all games fell by  5.4% year-on-year, because most sales  come from Lotto.Camelot said the fall was in line  with the experience of lotteries in  other countries and was caused by  launching new games. Nevertheless  it has been under growing pressure  to boost sales, and earlier this year set  out plans including a daily Lotto  draw, a new European game with  bumper jackpots and use of the  internet, interactive television and  mobile phones.However Camelot's interactive  director, Richard Hurd-Wood, denies  that roll-out could have happened any  sooner. A proposed interactive strategy  was first outlined in Camelot's  re-application for the seven-year  National Lottery licence, which was  submitted in early 2000. Although  Camelot was formally re-awarded the  licence the following December,  Hurd-Wood was not appointed until  2002 and only after this was the interactive  department established. Within  a year of his arrival, Hurd-Wood says,  the strategy had been updated; work  on the digital registration and authentication  system was under way; and  the first digital instant-win games  were on track for a February 2003  internet launch."We've not worked slowly," he  insists. "But we have had to be very  careful and undertake a huge amount  of testing. Unlike other examples of  e-commerce where you can expect to  lose a small percentage of transactions,  we have no room for error. We  have to be able to manage a large  number of transactions each of which,  despite the relatively low value in  terms of price paid by the consumer, is  extremely important because of its  high potential value should that ticket  prove to be a winning number."A number of other factors have  also dictated how soon Camelot has  been able to launch its interactive  and new-media applications. One of  the biggest is the National Lottery's  special status, which means it can't  be seen to be promoting excessive  gambling. So Camelot has had to  build into its strategy a way of  authenticating the identity of players  using new media channels, each of  whom must register digitally before  being allowed to play. It has also  devised a way for individual players  to place limits on the amount they  can spend if they want to. Another  major challenge, however, has been  to create a digital strategy able to  work across any platform."We set out to build an integrated,  multi-platform digital infrastructure  able not just to cater for consumer  expectations and technological changed  anticipated over the next year or two but  for the duration of its seven-year licence,  which expires in 2009," Hurd-Wood  says. "We now have this infrastructure  in place."At the heart of Camelot's new  media strategy is a digital registration  and authentication system. This  involves a player electronically registering,  setting up a password, setting  up a lottery account - by transferring  money from a debit card into a digital  wallet, then accessing a range of  games to play. Digital players' number  selections are fed into Camelot's  main system which includes each of  the UK's 25,000 lottery ticket terminals.  Should a digital player win,  notification is sent electronically,  with wins of up to £500 paid back  into the player's digital wallet. For  wins of more than £500 digital winners  will be invited to visit their local  lottery centre with proof of purchase  - standard practice for winners who  bought their tickets from a shop or  newsagent.Built into this registration system,  however, is an electronic authentication  system which is handled by a proprietary  tool developed by Camelot  and consumer credit report specialist  Experian. This cross-refers name,  address, date of birth and bank details  submitted by prospective digital lottery  players against a range of data  such as birth, driving licence and Post  Office details to ensure players are  aged at least 16, have a valid UK  address, and hold a valid debit card.  Only those able to meet these criteria  will be authorised to play digitally."Aside from extending opportunities  people have to play and making  ourselves more appealing among  twenty and thirtysomethings, this also  overcomes the problem of someone  losing their winning ticket, and the  matter of unclaimed prizes, as we now  notify you," Hurd-Wood explains.Then, of course, there's the anticipated  impact on lottery sales. Hurd-Wood predicts sales generated digitally  will be incremental and adds that  he is now working towards a target of  5% of lottery sales being generated  digitally by 2009.In the light of rapid growth in  digital TV penetration and high  expectations for electronic gaming,  5% of all lottery sales by 2009 may  sound a modest goal but in fact the  stakes for Camelot's new media strategy  are far higher.Speaking back in October 2002  chief executive Dianne Thompson  admitted: "We're facing what happened  to the football pools. Currently  Lotto accounts for 80% of our sales,  but we expect this to decline to around  50%. That's where new games and  new media come in. It's through that  strategy that we can fill the gap."True, Camelot has come late to digital  interactive media but the fact is: it  can't afford not to win. And nor can  the good causes it supports.In the meantime, the company is  fine-tuning plans for its extension into  interactive TV this spring and then  mobile phones by late August.
It is hardly the most scientific way of judging the psyche of a nation, but if the internet's pre-eminent search engine is to be believed, Britons spent more time in 2003 worrying about Prince Charles than they did about the war in Iraq.The Google Zeitgeist is a series of top 10 lists compiled from more than 55bn searches made over the past 12 months by visitors to the Google website. Now in its third year, the Zeitgeist seeks to shine a light on the mores of the wired world, even if the results show a disconcerting fascination with the inconsequential.By way of illustration, it appears that over the past year Britney Spears was the phrase typed most often into the Google searchbox by users across the world.The trend is likely to continue in 2004 with yesterday's reports that the 22-year-old pop star married a childhood friend, Jason Alexander, from Louisiana, at the Little White Wedding Chapel on the Strip in Las Vegas on Saturday.Harry Potter and the sci-fi franchise the Matrix followed closely behind.Iraq, meanwhile, only appears in seventh place; war in the Gulf seemingly of less importance than the bullet wounds of the rapper 50 Cent, who finished one place higher in sixth.Eminem's partner in rhyme trailed in turn behind David Beckham, the England captain's global teenage fanbase making him ideal internet material.Beckham was not the only British name to appear high up in the global rankings either, our predilection for low-cost flights driving Ryanair and EasyJet into the list of 2003's 10 most searched for brands.A pun on the word googol, the mathematical term for the number represented as one followed by 100 zeroes, Google Inc began life in a Californian garage in 1998. Its revolutionary search technology, ranking webpages according to the   number of other pages that linked to them, soon established the site as one of the most popular on the internet.The company is set to float its stock this year, to the disgust of its original following, with an anticipated valuation of $20bn (about &#163;11bn) and offers services from shopping to news-gathering. It has spawned several subsidiaries across the globe.One such affiliate is Google UK and the Zeitgeist also lists the most popular searches in Britain.This is is where the heir to the throne comes in, as the much-debated personal life of the Prince of Wales, and a series of injunctions brought against British newspapers, helped to make him the most popular search term, just ahead of EastEnders and Winnie the Pooh.If the British results confirm anything, in fact, it is that the internet is the resident gossip of the global village.The top 10 British searches not only featured Prince Charles, but also Michael Jackson and the American heiress Paris Hilton, both of whom were beset by scandal last year.Jackson's arrest on child sex charges guaranteed him seventh place in the British listings, but while Hilton is a relative unknown in the UK, a home-made video featuring a variety of adult activities was freely available online and may have contributed to her ninth-placed ranking. Iraq was nowhere to be found.A race across the results from other countries offers little relief for the highbrow.Australians were most interested in their version of Pop Idol, Canadians in Disney's computer-animated movie Finding Nemo, while even the Germans were obsessed with the trivial, their most popular search being for Yu-Gi-Oh, a Pokemon-style card game from Japan.Only the French inquired after anything remotely sensible: their most frequent search was for their national rail company, SNCF.
It was a shock when I discovered a few years ago that my kindly grandfather was a rogue. The whole family knew there was a period in his life that my mum's dad didn't like to talk about, but we had no idea why he wouldn't discuss the years after the First World War.Arthur Emmings talked of his days as a boy soldier in the trenches and his time on the railways in East London. But he never mentioned the wife and two children he left penniless when he ran off with my grandmother, 10 years his junior, in 1937. Nor did he mention the time he spent on the run from the police, who were after him for unpaid maintenance. Or the time inside Wormwood Scrubs when they caught him.I now know that the instinct to research family history is often sparked by the secrets kept and lies told by families and the curiosity of descendants to discover what really went on. My search led me to my grandfather's first wife, Alice, still living under her married name in East London, and to her two children, the brother and sister my mum never knew she had. Alice, it turned out, had to bring up her abandoned family on 30 shillings a week, over half of which went on rent.I have now met my new aunt, also called Alice, a couple of times, but never my lost uncle, Fred, who changed his surname to distance himself from the father he hated. When I met Alice she said she had always dreamed of having a sister, and now her dreams had been fulfilled. But there has been no family reunion.My grandfather's first wife is now dead, but it has not been possible to heal the pain caused by the desertion. Arthur's first family have no reason to forgive him for what he did or feel anything but bitterness towards his new family.A search of marriage records showed Arthur did, finally, at the age of 72 marry my grandmother, then aged 62: in November 1971, five years after I was born, in a secret ceremony at a register office in Salisbury.Even their own children didn't know he had finally made an honest woman of her.
First came Friends Reunited, a website for tracing old school friends which became a national phenomenon and led to a trail of rekindled friendships. Now a new site is set to cash in on the boom in family history, with potentially dramatic results for those seeking lost forebears.The site,www.1837online.com, indexes every birth, marriage and death in England and Wales since records were centralised in 1837, and is already being dubbed Ancestors Reunited.The service, which uses the official records of the Family Records Centre, is fuelling a boom in family history research. Anyone with an internet connection can trace their ancestors from home when previously they would have been forced to visit dusty local archives for parish records or the centralised records centre in London.Until now 1837online.com has been a closely kept secret among family historians, but the site will be launched to the general public later this year. The founders - mindful of the 1901 census site, which crashed when it was launched three years ago due to the huge demand from family historians around the world - initially decided to spread the word only among established genealogists while they ensured the technology could cope with the demand. But interest in the site is already growing fast.It took compilers from 1837online.com three years to scan images of the births, marriages and deaths indexes from the full set of official microfilms which cost &#163;50,000 to acquire. A total of 2.4 million images can now be consulted online and so far a staggering 14 million images have been called up by the public: 80 per cent from the UK and 20 per cent from overseas. With the cost of consultation at around 10p a time, a quick sum demonstrates that the original investment has already more than paid off.The site was set up to cater for the internal needs of the project's parent company, Title Research, which investigates family trees for solicitors and trustees looking for the beneficiaries of wills. It was only when the company's head of operations, Colin Miller, showed it to his mother that he had the idea of making it available to the public: 'This index is the staple diet for genealogists, an essential tool. I knew it would fascinate family historians, but first I showed it to my mum and she thought it was great.'The boom in family history, fuelled by ease of access to information over the internet, has already attracted the interest of TV companies. The History Channel's Family History Project has resulted in several programmes related to ordinary people's personal histories. The BBC is thought to be embarking on a similar project for this year. It already had a website, Your History, for genealogical stories from the public.The task has been made easier by the work of the Mormon church in the United States, whose Family Search website has a database of 35 million names and includes the full 1881 British census.The boom would seem unstoppable: last year alone two new genealogical magazines were launched. Historian Nick Barrett, a consultant for the the History   Channel, said: 'In today's dislocated society it is a way of tapping into a sense of community by tracing relatives back. There is almost a quasi-religious element to the way some people pursue their relatives.'The Family Records Centre in Islington, north London, which holds every national census from 1841 and the originals of the birth, marriage and death indexes from 1837, receives 15,000 visitors a month in person. Senior researcher Audrey Collins said many family historians were newly retired people who have had their interest sparked when a close relative dies. But she warned new researchers to be prepared to uncover unpalatable truths kept hidden for decades. When working as a freelance researcher, Collins was investigating why a man in the 1890s died before the death of his child and discovered that he was hanged for murder.She said: 'You shouldn't dig around unless you are prepared to discover unfortunate things. Some people like it when they find something disreputable, but others can find it deeply disturbing.'On New Year's Eve, when The Observer visited the Family Records Centre, its reading rooms were crammed full. Lesley Fletcher, 57, began researching her family history when sorting through family papers after the death of her mother. 'My father died before I was born and I have never been particularly interested in him. But I found some photos and letters to my mother and he became more real to me. I didn't have any information about him and so everything I discovered was a surprise.' She has now traced her family back to the early nineteenth century. 'Once you start it gets addictive. It's like a detective story and you want to find the next clue.'One of the younger researchers, 42-year-old Robert Lammas, was just beginning to investigate his East End family. 'As a kid, I didn't know any of my aunts and uncles and then, when I was 17 or 18, my mother lost her mind. I've been trying to find out why. I found out that none of my relatives came to my parents' wedding.' He has already discovered that his paternal grandmother was from Germany and is hoping that further family research might resolve the deeper psychological questions surrounding his mother.Colin Miller, of 1837online.com, said that the staff on the project's technical helpline have had to become unofficial counsellors because of the emotional power of the information uncovered.'The attraction is obvious. When you log on to this site, you are carrying out detective work on yourself. But you never know what you will find - whether you are descended from a French Huguenot or a sheep rustler.'The official website of the Family Records Office iswww.familyrecords.gov.uk.
In the long run, said Keynes, we are all dead. Quite. But that is no excuse for our chronic nearsightedness in relation to technology. Let us therefore use the end of the year to put its events in a longer-term context. To do this, we need to bear three principles in mind.First principle: we overestimate the short-term impacts of technology while underestimating long-term effects. Last year marked the 10th birthday of the World Wide Web. So think back to 1993. John Major was Prime Minister. The Tories were a serious political party. Tony Blair still looked like Bambi. Nobody had an email address. A URL was a wacky thing that geeks knew about. Amazon was the name of a river in Latin America. Ryanair was an obscure Irish airline and the words eBay, Google and Napster hadn't been coined.And now? When was the last time you saw a business card without an email address? Or a white van without a URL? We now routinely use the web to do most of the stuff we used to do with directories and reference books. I can't remember when I last used a telephone directory. Ryanair is a 'ticketless' airline - travellers arrive at the check-in desk bearing the printed web-page that confirms their booking. Single people 'Google' prospective dates before calling the taxi. Amazon is making a profit. eBay and Google have changed the world. Napster's file-sharing inheritance has brought the record industry to its knees.You will get the point: none of us knows where this is headed, and it would be fatuous to pretend we did.Second principle: industries mature according to a pattern. They begin by being vendor-dominated but wind up with the consumer being sovereign. Think of the automobile industry: once upon a time, it was dominated by Henry Ford and you could have any colour you wanted so long as it was black. Now you can have whatever you like - even a pearl-handled sports utility vehicle. The folks who work in the computer industry - and those who buy and sell its products - don't yet realise that this is how it is going to pan out for them. At the moment, we're in the Model-T phase, with Bill Gates playing Henry Ford. Go into Dixons on the High Street and you can have any kind of computer you want so long as it's running Microsoft Windows. But this cannot last. In 20 years' time, things will look different. Microsoft will still be a formidable player, but consumer choice will rule the roost.In that sense, the most intriguing thing about 2003 was the glimpses it provided of how the transition from vendor-to-consumer-dominance will come about. The catalyst looks like being Open Source (ie, free) software - particularly the Linux operating system. The most significant event of the year in this context was the decision of the City of Munich to persist in switching its 14,000 PCs to Open Source software despite increasingly desperate discount offers from Microsoft. In the end, the Munich officials explained, the move to Open Source made sense even if it cost  more than the Microsoft option, because it avoided the lock-in implicit in standardising on a proprietary system outside the municipality's control.Third principle: new technology always challenges the established order, and eventually a new equilibrium is reached. Take the music industry. It didn't see the net coming. Instead of embracing the technology as a heaven-sent method for distributing its products, it then went into denial. Napster arrived, and with it an explosion of file-sharing, most of it illicit. Eventually the industry got Napster shut down, but by then it was too late. The file-sharing habit had become endemic, and is now much more widespread that it was even at Napster's peak.And still the industry didn't learn. Last year, it began prosecuting individual file-sharers. For a time, the courts were tolerant of this aggressive litigation, but some landmark legal judgments in the last   month have effectively stalled this contemporary impersonation of King Canute.Meanwhile, the solution was obvious - and Apple found it, by opening an online store in the US that allowed users to buy tracks legally for 99 cents with a digital rights management system that provided a reasonable compromise between fair use and copyright. The result: the store sold 25 million songs in its first three months, and continues to sell 1.5m a week. So after years of fruitless (and expensive) litigation, the record industry has finally arrived at the point where it ought to have been five years ago.Coming up in 2004? Safe bets are: more Open Source angst for Microsoft; stock market hysteria over a possible Google flotation; increasing concern in the West over China's new-found talent for creating computer software; limited progress on controlling spam; relentless expansion in British broadband access; increasing penetration of digital radio into homes; too many emails; and periodical moral panics about online porn and paedophilia. The mixture as before, in other words. Happy New Year!john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
