Multi-media groupImagination Technologies- hitherto one of the year's hi-tech Cinderellas - became yesterday a heroine of the sector, with a 162% profits surge helping to hold up a sagging Techmark index in London.The graphics, video and audio specialist made &#163;4.7m in the year to March 31, from &#163;1.8m in 1998/99, well ahead of the &#163;3.9m that had been expected by City analysts.Imagination owns the rights to the graphics chip forSega's games console, and has a strategic partnership with ST Microelectronics of France, with whom it is to launch its first graphics chip for personal computers in June.Imagination shares fell from an all-time closing price high of 610p in February to about 233p at the start of May on concerns over poor sales of Sega's Dreamcast machine, but yesterday it proved one of the anchors of Techmark, with the shares rising 18.5p to 261p.Imagination's growth has been powered by the relationship with Sega, but the company expects increasing revenue from the partnership, announced last year, with ST, one of the main providers of chips for PCs. With ST, Imagination is producing chips for television set-top boxes.It expects its &#163;5m acquisition in March of Ensigma, the audio technology company, to bear fruit. Ensigma makes technology for radio studios, home entertainment systems and voice recognition devices, and is a leader in telephone "voice dialling". Its products are in use by the Ministry of Defence.Imagination said the ST tie-up and the acquisition of Ensigma helped to broaden its intellectual property base, adding it had its eye on further acquisitions in related areas.Earnings per share rose by 127% to 2.5p, from 1.1p in 1999.
Barclaysincreased the jockeying with rivals for internet customers yesterday, announcing a &#163;325m budget this year for new projects and a pledge to keep making profits despite increased investment.Barclays, which refuses to follow some of its rivals by setting up a separately-branded bank for the internet, published a nine-page list of all its e-commerce initiatives across retail, overseas, Barclaycard, fund management and business banking operations.The bank, which claims to be the country's biggest on the internet with 1m customers, tried to demonstrate the diversity of its cyberspace clientele by citing the example of a 99-year-old who registered for the online bank last month.David Weymouth, chief information officer, said that while Barclays was spending &#163;325m on the internet - which helped it squeeze 4% of   costs out of its retail bank last year- it would also spend &#163;100m on revamping its branch network, the source of much of its negative publicity in recent months."From the customer side we're convinced that the right strategy is to deliver to as many customers as possible a broad range of services across multiple channels."While the bank insists it will not prevent internet customers using branches or telephone banking, it will launch an internet-only savings account later in the year.Of the &#163;325m to be spent this year on the net, &#163;180m will be devoted to core infrastructure, &#163;75m to "business to customer" initiatives and &#163;70m for "business to business".The bank's shares rose by 29p to &#163;16.51 even though analysts expressed some scepticism that the benefits of the spending would feed through to the bank's profits.
Prudential last night risked becoming the highest profile victim of the dot.com fallout as it admitted it was reviewing the planned &#163;2bn flotation of itsEggbanking subsidiary on a daily basis.It would join the list of flotations and initial public offerings (IPOs) dumped or postponed yesterday as internet and technology companies accepted investor interest was draining away fast.With the prospectus due this week for the Egg flotation, already half the value estimated three months ago, speculation mounted that the timing of the sale of Egg shares to customers, employees and institutional investors would be delayed from the second week of June.Amid rumours that the prospectus had been scheduled for publication yesterday, the Pru would only say last night: "No decision has been taken on the exact timing of that announcement. Market conditions are an important factor and the company will continue to examine the situation in light of this".Among those putting their plans on ice in the teeth of stock market turbulence were Opal Telecom, the third generation telecoms provider, TeleCity, the net infrastructure company, and online games retailer Softwarefirst.com.Video-on-demand company Video Networks Ltd said it would decide in two weeks whether a flotation will form part of its fundraising plans in the wake of rival Yes Television's abandoned IPO.Shares in Project Telecom were meant to start trading yesterday but it extended the period for taking orders for its &#163;35m IPO until Friday to win more support.Opal Telecom said it had received an enthusiatic response from fund managers but had been warned it would be "crazy" to try and push   ahead in the current climate of uncertainty.David Goldie, Opal Telecom's founder, said it could   be some months before the market was ready for such a float.Television company Static 2358 has put its IPO scheme on ice as has Basildon-based Softwarefirst.com whose managing director William Flatau expressed disappointment at the decision to halt a float on Ofex."We released our prospectus just before the downturn that has paralysed our marketing and PR effort. Its extremely difficult to achieve a listing even on Ofex in today's market, even though our revenues   are up 75% year on year," he explained.Meanwhile Video Networks said it would take account of Yes's decision on Sunday to pull its initial public offering when it finalised plans for raising hundreds of millions of pounds."This and the general market situation has been put into the mix," said chief executive Simon Hochhauser. He believed the company was different from Yes TV, which had far fewer customers and different technology. He hoped the decision by Yes to scrap its IPO at   the second attempt might help his own float.The difficulty of raising money at present has also hit some of the biggest names in Europe. The placement of 10.7m shares in French software and consulting group Cap Gemini, to fund its acquisition of Ernst &amp; Young's consulting arm, was understood to have hit problems yesterday.Market talk was that the 90% slice of shares allotted to institutional investors was "only just" oversubscribed, by between 1.0 and 1.7 times.
Martha Lane-Fox looked like someone without a care in the world yesterday, sitting under the early summer Spanish sun, laughing and joking.TheLastminute.comco-founder was in Barcelona to address the Industry Standard's Global Internet Summit, apparently unfazed by the past two months' barrage of criticism caused by the company's flotation. Nor did she seem overly worried that back home demand from investors for new internet stocks continued to crumble.The reason for her optimism? For perhaps the first time since the float, Ms Lane-Fox was attending an internet conference where her floundering share price was not the hot topic of gossip.Instead, all the snipers were   focusing on the collapse of e-tailer Boo.com and information provider Net Imperative, and which would be the next dot.com to run out of cash.With &#163;130m in the bank, Lastminute.com seems to have enough cash to make it through to break-even. "We have always said that the IPO &#91;flotation&#93; changed nothing about the day-to-day running of this business except that it gave us the funds to build it to the size we have always envisaged," Ms Lane-Fox said.Elsewhere at the summit the mood was sombre, with an acceptance that the stock market party was over - at least for now and perhaps for ever for the more flimsy enterprises.Rob Hersov, chief executive of Sportal, summed up the mood: "The IPO window has been closed. It's private placement time now. Investment banks are no longer pitching   for floats. Everyone is rethinking their valuations."Nick Denton, chief executive of Moreover.com, a news aggregator which is close to finalising a new round of fundraising, pointed out that traditional ways of valuing companies were coming back into fashion. "&#91;It is a return to&#93; revenue models, sustainability and technological advantage - the traditional things that define great technology companies."Six months ago venture capitalists were judging companies by the strength of their stories and the prospects of getting a quick flip at IPO."Others were more bullish. John Palmer, chief executive of Letsbuyit.com, said his company still planned to list on the Neuer Markt on June 7. However, he admitted that when the company was finalising its last round of fundraising in March, which included a &euro;16m (&#163;9m) investment from BSkyB - investors were more demanding than previously.British newsreel footage firm Newsplayer also pressed on with its flotation yesterday, setting out details of a listing that values the company at around &#163;55m. Newsplayer, which operates through a video-on-demand model, set the price for its flotation on London's Alternative Investment Market at 84p per share.Victor Basta, managing director in London of technology-focused investment bank   Broadview, said a shake-out of the market was long overdue."Many of the companies were lucky to be funded in the first place. They were run by people who were underqualified and some of the deals violated the basic tenets of venture capitalism," he said.The FTSE 100 blue chip index last night underlined the dramatic shift going on in the fortunes of new-economy stocks.If the FTSE had been undergoing its quarterly reshuffle, many of the dot.com companies welcomed with such fanfare in March, such as Thus, Kingston Communications and Psion, would have been jettisoned.In their place would come more familiar names: Hanson, Scottish &amp; Newcastle and, perhaps, British American Tobacco and PowerGen.
The sudden demise of the internet news service netimperative.com has surprised industry insiders and pierced another small puncture in the internet bubble. The service today fell victim to the backlash against dotcom companies and started liquidation proceedings just three months after its launch.The company held discussions with its main shareholder Durlacher over the weekend and had been expected to secure more funds, but it appears Durlacher was unwilling to provide a second tranche of financing for the start-up. Durlacher, a stockbroking firm turned niche internet investor, holds a 28.5% stake in Net Imperative.Last week the online fashion retailer boo.com collapsed, and at the weekend the video-on-demand provider Yes TV abandoned a stock market flotation planned for this morning. With the planned £600m offering undersubscribed in the recent freefall of technology stocks, Yes TV pulled the plug on its offering.Netimperative.com described itself as the first in a planned international network of localised information
and community service providers. It reported on sectors such as technology, investment, media and marketing and was a networking forum for entrepreneurs and investors.The company was founded by Felicia Jackson, the former editor of New Media Investor, the UK's leading publication on investment in the UK internet industry. A highly regarded and respected authority on
the sector, she also acts as an adviser for the Department of Trade and Industry's trade association and is a consultant to number of start-up internet businesses.She has done stints as a stock analyst for newsletters such as Chart Breakout and Quantum Leap and a journalist for a number of publications including PFI report and Sports Marketing.Net Imperative did not have the glitz and glamour of boo.com, with its attendant stories of extravagant spending plans. Amory Hall, chief executive of the web strategy firm Akasha Media said: "You can't just point the finger at management. You have to look at the people writing the cheques with unrealistic expectations. I'm convinced both boo.com and Net Imperative would have going concerns if given time."The two collapses can only reinforce the view that the market is taking a more jaundiced look at internet startups with their sky-high valuations. Accountants PriceWaterhouseCoopers have warned that many loss-making enterprises are gobbling up money so fast that one in four will run out of cash in less than six months.A separate survey by FT.com found that the British public is turned off by internet industries, with only 7% saying they would like to be involved in a dotcom and just 3% prepared to give up their jobs if they had a good idea for an internet startup.Useful linkNetimperativeNet Imperative goes into liquidationComment: dot.com pain continues
The news that netimperative.com has begun liquidation proceedings is the second shock for dot.com investors in a matter of days. Only last week Boo.com, the UK e-tailer, announced it was facing collapse after failing to secure future funding.The warm glow that investors felt as they watched their internet and technology shares soar in February and March has given way to horror as valuations have plummeted.Even good quality shares with real earnings rather than deepening losses have been hit by the change in sentiment.The technology, media and telecoms (TMT) sector is not just focused on e-tailers, but each new announcement that a dot.com company is struggling has a knock-on effect on new economy shares in general.After a report last week suggesting that many ecommerce companies were burning cash so quickly that they would run out of money within six months, there was more bad news today with the release of a report claiming that Britons had shown less interest than forecast in buying online.The problem for the dot.com companies, particularly those which are selling to the consumer rather than business, is the high cost of building a brand in a short timescale.The marketing costs are huge, and many ecommerce sites do not expect to make money for four or more years.Until now, this had not been a problem, as investors and venture capitalists were willing to tolerate large initial losses in the hope of owning a part of a new company which would one day dominate online retailing.But the fall in the price of technology shares and fears about how much profit the e-tailers can hope to make means the City is becoming much more cautious about providing more money when the first batch of funding runs out.There will be more e-casualties, and some will fail not because they are failing to stick to their business plan or meet their targets, but simply because venture capitalists are becoming far more selective about where they spend their money, and the City has lost its appetite for providing loss-making companies with second-round funding.Coupled with the continuing gyrations in the Nasdaq, the technology index in the US, there is likely to be more pain ahead for TMT investors.
The internet news service Net Imperative became the second big casualty of the slump in the start-up economy when it went into liquidation today.Net Imperative appointed Kroll Buchler Phillips as provisional liquidators after a board meeting this morning, the service's editor, Niki Panourgias, announced on its website."It is work as usual," Mr Panourgias said, as the site endeavours "to provide as impartial coverage of the story as would be the case with any company in the same situation".Net Imperative was founded eight months ago with a staff of 24 to provide specialist news for the UK internet industry. It went live in February from its office in Shoreditch, London.It appointed Albert Scardino, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist in the 1980s, as non-executive chairman, and was primarily funded by the British stockbroker and niche internet investor Durlacher Plc, which holds a 28.5% stake.The liquidation of Net Imperative follows last week's collapse of the online fashion retailer boo.com, which is set to close this Wednesday if a buyer cannot be found.Yes TV abandoned its planned stock market flotation, due this morning, after a jittery week for technology shares ended with a freefall in prices on Friday.
Investors, still reeling from last week's battering of technology shares, suffered another blow over the weekend when video-on-demand provider Yes TV abandoned its planned stock market flotation, due this morning.Several would-be investors pulled their orders for shares on Friday as technology stocks went into freefall. The Techmark index suffered its biggest one-day fall, losing 8.7% of its value. With the planned &#163;600m offer undersubscribed, Yes TV was forced to postpone its listing."We were selling into the teeth of a huge bear market," said Steve Garvey, head of marketing.This is the second time Yes   TV's chief executive, Thomas Kressner, has said no to floating the five-year-old company. Today's planned float price of 175 p per share was a substantial discount on the range of 225-275p set for April's abortive attempt.The cancellation of Yes TV's float reinforces the view that the market is taking a more sceptical view of the value of hi-tech stocks after the collapse last week of online fashion retailer Boo.com. The Techmark, London's technology share index, stands almost 40% below its April peak.Accountants PriceWaterhouseCoopers have warned that many loss-making internet start-ups are chewing through money at such a rate that one in four has less than six months of cash left. Separately, a survey by FT.com showed that the British public is turned off by the internet industries, with only 7% saying they would like to be involved in a dot.com and just 3% would give up their jobs if they had a good idea for an internet start-up.Mr Garvey said the company had more than &#163;40m in cash to tide it over while it sought investors to back its plans for aggressive roll-out of its video-on-demand service, a process which might take "weeks or months".Yes TV's abandoned offering follows a string of bad news for the company, which provides movies and music on demand over cable and phone networks."With hindsight, we probably would have been better to   wait until the autumn," Mr Garvey said, adding that would-be investors who had sent money would receive refunds as soon as was practicable.There were reports yesterday that other flotations planned for this week could be at risk, including British-based internet firm TeleCity.Analysts expect a nervous week in the markets as the threat of higher interest rates threatens to destabilise corporate profitability. Loss-making internet companies are particularly vulnerable to interest rates worries.Some City analysts expect the European Central Bank to follow last week's move by the US Federal Reserve, ratcheting rates up at its meeting on Thursday.
It was  the ultimate sign of a business in deep trouble. One ofboo.com'sSwedish founders, Kajsa Leander, replied to an invoice with an e-mail that read: 'F--- you.'The message heralded the collapse of the brash online fashion retailer - a crash that will come to be be seen as a turning point in the brief history of the Internet bubble.Few companies have come to exemplify the giddy money-go-round which this sector has spawned as dramatically as boo. Founded 18 months ago by three photogenic twentysomething Swedes - Leander, Patrik Hedelin and Ernst Malmsten - the firm secured finance from big-name backers such as Bernard Arnault, head of the French luxury goods group LVMH, and the Benetton family.The new firm raised more than &#163;100 million, a record for an Internet start-up, and the omens looked good for the three founders, who hold a 35 per cent stake in the business. But by the middle of last week, as accountant KPMG was appointed liquidators, boo had broken the bank. Sources say it is millions of pounds in debt. The collapse means the loss of 300 jobs, 200 of them in London.Part of the company's early success in securing financing came because Malmsten and Leander had that rarest of things: a pedigree in creating Internet start-ups. The two had launched and sold their Swedish online bookstore,Bokus.com, and gained the sort of respect the City accords to alchemists. Malmsten and Leander even managed to get on to the front page of the US's prestigious  Fortune magazine.They made an odd couple. Malmsten used to be a poetry critic; Leander was an ex-model with the Elite agency. When Bokus was taken over,   the pair left its board.The rise and fall of boo is a cautionary tale of our times. It attempted to build a global brand - operating in 18 countries - by spending millions of pounds on positioning itself as a funky streetwise company which would blow the cobwebs out of the fashion market.From the start, boo went into hyper party mode. Employees jetted around Europe throwing lavish bashes in a bid to win over the fashion industry. Tales abound of sybaritic parties at the company's London HQ, just off Carnaby Street. The modelling crowd flocked to the champagne-fuelled   shindigs. Leander liked to film each party with a video camera. 'She liked to think of herself as a photo-journalist,' one insider said. Another party-goer added: 'The parties were amazing. They really knew how to entertain.'Boo's hedonism could have stemmed from the pages of  The Great Gatsby. As its founders and employees enjoyed the high life, however, the business was floundering. A launch date of spring 1999 was postponed six times. It finally got off the ground six months later.Despite this setback, boo still opened costly offices in London, Paris, New York, Munich and Stockholm. The company's main call centre, employing 80 people, was housed expensively at its London HQ, instead of using   a cheaper site elsewhere.The jet-set lifestyle was largely unnecessary. 'Most of the flying around seemed to be for the sake of it,' said one insider. 'Instead of a phone call it was a case of "let's fly to New York".' No one seemed to want to stop the party.Azeem Azhar, founder of Internet incubator esouk, said: 'It really shows you need good financial controls within companies. It's a lesson for all of us. You need to watch the beans.'It took boo six months to appoint Dean Hawkins, formerly a big hitter with Adidas, as its chief financial officer last January. But Hawkins resigned two months later to join a Dutch Internet company, a move that dealt a body blow to boo's credibility.But it was the unfettered marketing costs which really crippled boo. They were the main contributor to a cash burn rate of more than &#163;1m a week. By March the company had spent a reported &#163;30m on advertising and marketing. Admittedly, a large-scale television advertising campaign drew critical applause, but even this lacked impact with potential customers.Richard Heygate, chief executive of Sophron, a company which builds Internet businesses, said: 'In our experience, the big advertising agencies take a 20 per cent commission on the costs of a campaign. Until you've built up customer loyalty, you don't spend millions advertising, because you don't have sufficient revenue streams. You just have a pile of crap.'The spiralling costs of building the brand on a global scale meant that by March, boo was seeking further funding. But the Benetton family, which had wanted boo to list on the US Nasdaq stock exchange shortly after its site was launched last November, refused to take part in further   rounds of financing. The original backers, JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs, also balked at investing more. Last weekend the remaining backers did the same.Now observers are expressing amazement at boo getting as far as it did. 'The industry has been waiting for this to happen for some time,' said Rob Lewis, chief executive of Silicon.com, an online IT magazine. You don't buy a pair of trainers from a sports shop without trying them on first. The bottom line is that the experience has to be better delivered over the Internet than in the high street if it is to work.'Boo made great play of the fact that its site allowed users to view goods from different angles, so that they would get a good 'feel' for the products on offer. But the technology behind boo, while clever,   meant users initially had to wait up to half an hour to download the site before buying anything, a serious barrier when attempting to turn eyeballs into revenue. Even later versions of the site were regarded as clunky and time-consuming. Critics also point out that boo failed to sign up big names such as Adidas and Nike.And those goods that were available were no cheaper than in the shops, leading consumers to question the point of an Internet retailer which couldn't offer cheaper prices than in the high street. As consumers failed to bite, a backlog of inventory built up, forcing boo to start selling off its stock at discounts of up to 40 per cent.Even this drastic remedy wasn't enough to stimulate the sort of turnover boo needed to justify the exorbi  tant rate at which the company was burning money: it was forced to sack 70 of its staff. These redundancies followed an earlier cut of 30 jobs when boo closed its online magazine,  boom . The staff were given 15 minutes to leave the building.As an air of desperation crept into the company's London headquarters, boo went into denial. The company told the world's media that its plans to secure around &#163;20m in a second round of financing were on course. Several national newspapers published the story.When  The Observer inquired about the state of boo's finances two weeks ago, however, a different picture emerged. Boo said the funding was in place; City sources said the opposite. The company even told its remaining staff that it had managed to   raise the cash from its shareholders. This was typical of Leander and Malmsten's blas&eacute; management style. 'It was capricious,' said one source who knew them well. 'They were so used to getting their own way. It was completely chaotic.'At the end, the company's website developer, Organics, had stopped answering boo's phone calls. 'Leander and Malmsten would just hurl obscenities down the phone line,' one source said. This was not an isolated case. The last contact one partner who worked with boo had was the obscene e-mail .The pair may soon wish they had been a little less hot- headed. As they survey the wreckage of their company, Leander and Malmsten are short of allies. And the party crowd is not known for its loyalty.
British computer users yesterday escaped the worst ravages of a derivative of the I Love You virus which devastated computer systems worldwide earlier this month.The latest virus, dubbed NewLove-A, brought some networks on the west coast of America to a halt on Thursday.A virus that changes its code each time it infects an individual operating system, NewLove-A is a more sophisticated version of the LoveBug. It erases the entire contents of an individual hard drive, but because it takes up a substantial amount of memory it spreads much slower than the I Love You virus.NewLove-A arrives in email form, with the "forward" prefix, Fw, in the subject line, followed by a name from the user's address book. The virus then randomly selects a recently opened file from the start/document menu and attaches it as a .vbs file. Clicking on the attachment releases the virus into the hard drive. It also sends itself to the first 50 people in the user's address book.Graham Cluley, spokesman for leading UK anti-virus firm Sophos, said they had not received any complaints from UK users but recommended vigilance."The easiest way to avoid trouble is not to open unsolicited attachments on email. If it is unsolicited and in some way suspicious then don't go near it. The easiest way to stop it is to put a block on all emails that contain the .vbs suffix."The Californian software firm, Trend Micro, reported that several companies in the US had been affected, including one which lost the use of 5,000 machines on Thursday night.Only users running Microsoft Outlook email programme for Windows are vulnerable to the new virus, and yesterday Microsoft announced they would be introducing measures to reduce the chances of users unwittingly infecting their computers."We will be introducing prompts to Outlook which will encourage people to download the attachments on to the hard drive, and then scan them for viruses before opening them."People are quite virus-aware at the moment thanks to the I Love You virus. It was just two weeks ago and people are still on their toes looking out for anything odd turning up in their inbox."FBI virus warnings
Britain's hi-tech stocks suffered one of their blackest days yesterday as the knock-on effects from the high profile crash of the online fashion ventureBoo.comreverberated through a jittery City.Almost 10% was wiped off the value of technology stocks as investors feared that other companies would follow Boo.com into liquidation.Dealers reported a wave of panic selling to match the buying frenzy that accompanied the arrival to the market of lastminute.com three months ago.Jeremy Batstone, head of research at NatWest stockbrokers, said: "We are definitely in a crash scenario in the tech sector and we question the ability of some stocks to recover to previous highs. Positive sentiment is disappearing fast."The accountants PriceWaterhouseCoopers added to the gloom with a warning that other companies will follow Boo.com.Lastminute.com, the company which symbolised the market's infatuation with the internet, closed last night at 141p, after falling 13p on the day. It is now worth less than a third of the 525p peak it reached on the day of its launch.Overall, London's Techmark index lost 291.1 points to close at 3052.19, a fall of 8.73% on the day. The woes of the high technology sector spread to the blue chip FTSE100 index, which lost 187 points, or 3%, to close at 6045.4. In all, &#163;42bn was wiped off the value of the London market.The Footsie's fall was fuelled by tech stocks including Energis, the telecoms group, which lost 406p to &#163;21.05, the software manufacturer Baltimore Technologies down 70p to 419p and the hand-held com puter manufacturer Psion, which fell 99p to 562p.Mr Batstone said investors were likely to be selective in their stock selection after the recent falls. "I think people should see losing money as a very important lesson about markets," he added. "If you lose money in the markets it should act as a hearty dose of reality."The falls started in the US overnight and with continuing weakness in North American markets yesterday, London stocks plummeted further. Worries over the prospect of rising US interest rates have knocked confidence on the other side of the Atlantic.Wall Street was down more than 200 points in early afternoon trading after official figures revealed the US trade deficit ballooned to a record &#163;30.2bn in March.Traders fear that the deficit is a sign that the US federal reserve will need to raise interest rates again after this week's half point rise, to get inflation under control.Rising interest rates are generally bad for stocks because they cut into corporate profits by increasing the cost of borrowing money."There is a lot of fear out there," said Alfred E. Goldman, a director of market analysis at A.G. Edwards and Sons Inc, in St Louis. "People are concerned and worried about how high interest rates will go."Technology stocks which are particularly vulnerable to interest rate fears were also hard hit in the US. In early trading, the Nasdaq composite fell 132.32 points, or 3.74%, to 3,406.39 as some of its most heavily weighted stocks sank. Semiconductor, software and computer maker companies all fell heavily. Cisco fell 2 1/2 to 52 7/8, Intel lost 2 15/16 to 121 and Apple Computer dropped 5 5/16 to 95 7/16.
Will success spoil Linux? After a spectacular rise from little known, hobbyist operating system to the fastest growing OS in the computing market and bona fide commercial phenomenon, Linux is at the centre of some collective soul-searching.The freely available operating system, initially developed by Finnish programmer Linus Torvalds and honed by a vast volunteer programmer "community", represents the first triumph for the open source software movement. Open source adherents advocate sharing the code, or basic digital blueprint, for software programs. Programs are developed over time by a sprawling collective. Basically, anyone can work on a bit of the system as long as any new code is also kept public, and programs are either free or available for a nominal sum.This "gift economy" - the idea that if one gives something freely to the wider community, one will in turn receive things - is at the heart of the open source movement and the genesis of Linux. Of course, this is at odds with the greedy world of big software and hardware companies, profits, initial public offerings and acquisitions. That's what makes Linux's rise and rise one of technology's most curious tales. It's as if a small-town community football team suddenly found itself   in Old Trafford with every prospect of beating Man United."It's an absolutely fascinating development, and it's glowing red-hot in the US," says analyst Martin Hingley, vice president of the European systems group in the UK offices of International Data Corporation (IDC). Why? "The customer is looking to avoid being tied to a single source &#91;for an operating system&#93;," he says. Linux can be downloaded by anyone for free from the internet, or, if you opt for some CDs and instructions, is available from companies such as Red Hat and SuSE at a small charge (under &#163;50). At last count, more than 145 sources offered a version of Linux."The benefit is control," says Red Hat's chief executive Bob Young. "People are no longer beholden to their vendor." If Linux is (in the favourite American phrase) the poster child of the open source movement, then North Carolina-based Red Hat is the poster child for Linux. Yet such are the odd twists and turns of the Linux tale, that Red Hat itself is now seen by some as the Linux vendor that's getting too big   and too successful, following an initial public offering (IPO) and the establishment of its own acquisitions fund.Analysts agree that Red Hat fuelled Linux's success after it drew much-publicised investments from Intel and Netscape a year and a half ago. The Intel stake in particular raised eyebrows, since Linux is seen increasingly as a growing threat to Microsoft's domination in the OS market with Windows, and Intel and Microsoft had been partners for years.Publicly, Microsoft had belittled Linux, but a leaked memo in October 1998,(www.tuxedo.org/~esr/halloween.html)expressed Bill Gates's true fears. "The journalists thought we were the David to Microsoft's Goliath but we had more engineers working on the OS than Microsoft did on Windows," says Young.Linux suddenly had the friends in high places needed to get a firm foothold in the corporate marketplace, and software and hardware players practically stumbled over themselves to bring out a Linux product. Corel, Oracle, SAP, Compaq, Dell, IBM, Applix, Informix and Computer Associates all support Linux. The stellar roster of support in turn spurred investor fever and at the end of last year, tiny Linux-based companies saw their valuations head into the ozone when they went public. VA Linux's shares alone jumped 498% on their opening day, setting a market record.Those developments have    been crucial to Linux's rise, says Alan Cox, a core programmer and maintainer of thewww.linux.org.ukwebsite. "The rest of the world &#91;has seen&#93; free software going from a crazy concept to a marketed advantage and marketed in a way that the business community understands. The stock market flotations also gave &#91;Linux&#93; a definite air of reality."But Linux's success isn't just spin. "There has been a   lot of Linux hype from companies either because they sell Linux products or because they see it as a stick to bash Bill Gates with (or both). Hype doesn't actually create a large user base and sustained deployment which Linux, unlike Java, is getting."In particular, Linux has gone from being seen as a desktop system for ubergeeks to colonising the server market, due to its reliability, say   analysts. It's now the operating system of choice on 25% of all new server shipments, up from 16% in 1998, according to IDC. Up to 30% of web servers run Linux, according to some estimates.Linux is expected to see 25% growth every year until 2004, and more than a third of enterprises use or plan to use Linux within the year, according to a recent report by analyst Booz-Allen and Hamilton. The number of Linux users grew from about 1,000 in 1992 to nine million last year, says the Tower Group, which predicts worldwide spending by the top 100 financial institutions on Linux will grow 32% a year - from $50m in 1998 to more than $200m in 2003.Critics insist Linux will not move beyond servers into the so-called enterprise market of crucial computing functions in big corporations: after all, they say, who will trust a system that is free or comes from young companies just learning how to offer service?But a Gartner Group survey of 650 companies indicates that 5% intend to use Linux this year for essential computing operations, and 13% say they will do so in the next year. In a much-watched development, IBM has signalled it intends to support Linux. Already the company has Linux up and running on its S/390 mainframe."We believe Linux could be the defining platform for all   new applications," says IBM enterprise server vice president Launy Vang Anderson. IBM envisions Linux running alongside a business's earlier operating system on the S/390, giving access to a company's old data. He says it is easier to make big enterprise software programs such as SAP run on Linux than other operating systems such as commercial Unix offerings or Microsoft's Windows 2000 or NT. IBM thinks it can make money fromLinux by offering support and services - a plan which must make companies like Red Hat, modelled on the same business plan, nervous.At the other end of the scale, Linux is increasingly the OS of choice for appliances: it is lean and agile, with a fraction of the code in commercial operating systems. Oracle, Intel, Gateway and NTL have all announced internet access appliances running Linux, and net access appliances are expected to overtakePCs in number by 2005.So many uses for Linux, and so many vendors in the field, have led to concerns that Linux will "fragment" - split into a number of incompatible, competing OS offerings from different companies. Unix never became the strong, standardised OS many had hoped. With this in mind Linux, which is a clone of Unix, was created to succeed where Unix failed.   Red Hat's Young argues that Linux will remain whole because Linus Torvalds still controls the software's core code, or "kernel".Torvalds, in his Ask Linus column atwww.linuxnews.com, says: "What will happen is that the 'market' fragments, as opposed to the technology. Which is good and proper. You'll have different Linux companies going after different markets, and having different priorities. Which means that you won't have any one particular 'Microsoft of Linux': you'll have dominant players, but they'll be dominant in the areas that they are good at. And nobody ever ends up being the best at everything."Torvalds, who speaks half-jokingly of Linux achieving "total world domination", is clearly comfortable with commercial success (although he will not work for a company that could directly make money off Linux - he sees it as a conflict of interest).So is Cox, who thinks that developers are nonetheless more loyal to Linux than a company they work for, and that Linux will never produce "Microsoft-like profits".The developer community, though, still wrestles with the idea of blending success and Linux. Discussion lists on the    pro-Linux siteSlashdothave dissected the issue from every angle for months. "I write free software to make people (not least myself) happy. I don't do it to crush MS, I don't do it so I can become one of the high priests if the OS cathedral_ and I sure as hell don't do it for the f***ing silicon value mickey mouse money stock options," wrote one programmer.Even those who cheer on Linux's commercial success wonder how companies will mould a business model around a free OS. Linux-based companies that went public spectacularly last year, including Red Hat, have seen their shares plunge.But Cox is sanguine: "Linux is the sum of contributions so it will go where the contributors take it. Right now that is everything from IBM mainframes to pocket computers. Some of it is through investment and funding and a lot of it is because someone just thought it would be neat if Linux did XYZ and had fun working on it."And in the end, fun may well be what ensures Linux's success, precisely because fun, the ultimate carrot on a stick for hard-core programmers, cannot be bought and sold.Look up your LinuxMain Linux sitewww.linux.orgOpen Source infowww.opensource.orgLinux newswww.linuxnews.comLinux Journalwww.linuxjournal.comLinux communitywww.linux.comAlan Cox's websitewww.linux.org.ukIntro to Linuxwww.linux.co.ukLinux user groupswww.lug.org.ukLinux magazinewww.linuxuser.co.ukLinux ISPwww.frontier-internet.ltd.uk
If you are a struggling dot.com and you cannot understand why your site is not attracting huge amounts of traffic, you might need a dollop of custard.As internet fever cools and investors become increasingly sceptical about sinking their hard-earned cash into the net, a new agency calledHot Custardhas launched offering dot.coms an online rescue service.Set up by former Marks &amp; Spencer retail marketeer Jan Selfridge and ex-creative director of Abbott Mead and Vickers Ian Standing, Hotcustard.com hopes to fix everything from marketing and technology problems to any e-fulfilment difficulties.So why the off-the-wall name? "You can pour custard on anything and you can make it better," quips Selfridge, who knows that in a crowded agency marketplace the name will be hard for budding net entrepreneurs 
to forget.Convinced that too many web sites lack a coherent strategy, she claims Hot Custard's hard-nosed approach is attracting a lot of interest from floundering dot.coms.
"It's not about the number of whizzy devices you can put on a screen, it's about having a purpose for being on the web and devising a strategy to drive people to your site.
"There are an awful lot of dot.coms who have got a good idea but have not executed it from a marketing perspective. Unless your site appeals to the people you are aiming at, it's not going to work."Hot Custard offers sickly web sites an e-doctor service and currently one of the most common complaints is falling traffic. In finding a cure, the Hot Custard team will assess the functionality of the site, its ease of use, and how 
people get to it from other destinations on the web.Both Selfridge and Standing have strong backgrounds in creative advertising and they are pretty scathing about the calibre of recent dot.com campaigns. Selfridge says that dot.coms have been over-ambitious in their advertising and have strayed from relaying the key simple messages. "What they have to offer often gets lost in off-the-wall 
executions," he adds.It is often bewildering for internet businesses to know where to go for reliable advice if they are in trouble, and if they are not careful the risks are they can be fleeced by an unscrupulous operator.Jon Bains, chairman of new media agency Lateral claims dot.coms generally expect too much from agencies. "If agencies could solve all dot.com problems they wouldn't be agencies. The reason why most people work in agencies is because they do not have the level of focus or expertise you need to run a successful internet company."Lateral handles new media strategies and marketing for high-profile clients such as Stella Artois and is currently creating sites for the new Harry Potter book and Nick Park's forthcoming film, Chicken Run. Bains maintains there is a tendency to treat dot.coms generically when in reality the problems they individually encounter can be fundamentally different.Typical problems Lateral has come across include 
having to find and coordinate 27 different distributors in Europe and trying to set up and manage specialist multi-lingual customer support for online sales of wine and sexy lingerie. 
Management consultancies are often the fall-back for serious dot.com players. Nick Greenspan has successfully set up Bainlab, the internet incubator service which is part of management consultancy Bain&amp;Co, and he is acutely aware of the pitfalls new agencies such as Hot Custard are trying to remedy."Dot.coms can encounter a raft of difficulties. The biggest positive problem is that their systems are not robust enough to survive the growth of their business."
Not putting in place 
proper customer fulfilment processes and failing to 
accurately anticipate the costs of acquiring customers are other common troubles.Sites are often not laid out in the way consumers want at the outset and have to be 
re-arranged, which is complicated and costly. The bill for re-designing a portal can run to hundreds of thousands of pounds.
Hot Custard hopes to 
succeed by cleverly exploiting a niche in the market. But 
other new media agencies warn that they will find it extremely frustrating dealing with dot.coms. 
Lateral insists that new internet companies pitch to them first before they will consider working for them. Bains says: "My confidence 
in dot.coms has been quite battered in the past by dealing with people who don't have a clue. They have a 
half-baked idea and they expect you to sort it out."He complains that internet entrepreneurs often get so gripped by an idea that they fail to think it through and do not prepare properly. So eventually they find they 
cannot distribute what they hoped to or are unable to get around the regulations of a particular country.Getting an internet business off the ground is hugely demanding, both physically and emotionally, and it is clearly sensible to hire 
independent quality advice to support any new e-venture. The editor of New Media Age, Mike Butcher, says it can be difficult for the serious dot.com players to get help because of a growing mood of scepticism in the market which has been generated by some flaky online business-to-consumer propositions.
He says: "If there are any serious players who are in dire straits either they did not get enough funding or the right people."While Hot Custard undoubtedly sounds soothing, warm and nice. Its sudden appearance on the virtual table is a clear indication that a cold and unforgiving shake-out is starting. Those internet entrepreneurs who rushed onto the web, borrowing more than they could afford with ill-thought out business plans, look set to receive their just desserts.
The combination of text and video over handheld phones, video over BT's 
latest broadband wire technology (ADSL) and systematic application of computing and IT has a key part to play in modernising the grass roots of the NHS and upgrading health services for the disadvantaged and the housebound.Today I and a group of my former senior BT colleagues are holding a demonstration in London in which we shall show that between them these technologies can work a minor revolution in local health services, dramatically cutting delay in treatment, saving money and improving the quality of care. This revolution could be complete by 2003.We are presenting the results of a year's study of future communications for Nelson and West Merton NHS Primary Care Trust and its patients in Wimbledon, London. 
Primary care trusts and groups are a key building block in the government's strategy for modernising the NHS, and replace the Conservatives' GP fundholder arrangements. 
Each one groups 20 or so general practitioner practices into a unified management unit, with its own chief executive and spending budget. We need them to succeed, and the marriage of IT and advanced communications will be 
vital for this.At the core of our demonstration are four scenarios, devised with the help of practising doctors, which show how two-way video through the air and by wire, plus advanced IT, could be used to help patients in the surgery and in the home.In the most dramatic of these, Ann Shurrock, who is totally paralysed in real life, will act the part of a multiple sclerosis patient with a life-threatening kidney infection. She is dealt with in a matter 
of hours wholly in her home, with text and video over handheld technology playing a key part. 
In another Julie Paul, who acted in the original Avengers, will play a patient with a positive smear test for cancer who is examined and reassured online by a 
consultant at her local hospital while she is still only on her first visit to her GP's surgery, using video images sent over a broadband wire technology like ADSL, which is now being introduced by BT across the country.The other two demonstrations will show an NHS Direct nurse using video over handheld to make a firm diagnosis and recommend treatment for a minor skin condition for an elderly patient at home, and video over wire being used for online training of health trust managerial staff.
Despite all the hype, the telecoms industry has seemed in recent years to be remarkably ineffective at devising new services of its own.It wasted several years in a search for a "killer" application for broadband to justify putting optical fibre through to the home - an effort which got nowhere. In the end it was computing which, through the internet and the web, made the breakthrough to new applications which needed broadband.The logical next step for telecoms after public voice and data service was full quality public videophone. The technology is at last there to create this (it would make a big difference to the traffic problem by offering a viable alternative to physical travel) but there is no sign of it happening.To try to crack this hang-up, we decided to use actors to test out new service ideas in simulated real life situations.
Hammering out the scripts for them with the professional users concerned, like the doctors in the present case, turns out to be the key. It forces you to think out the working of your idea in concrete detail.We have already used the technique with judges and solicitors to try out online civil law services: they loved it. The technique could be used to develop all kinds of new services. I think it is a breakthrough.The demonstration will include a talk by Ian Ayres, chief executive of the Nelson Trust. He says that "one has only to walk into a local surgery to see that the building has been built round a series of paper-based nodes surrounded by a series of consulting rooms"."The challenge," says Ayres, "is to move from that to an environment where clinicians have magically in their hand the information they need to see and treat a patient at wherever might be the appropriate location and at whatever time."We believe that NHS GP practices and the community health services will grind to a halt within a few years unless they face and master Ian Ayres's challenge. 
Between them handheld radio, wire broadband and modern IT are providing the technology to make this possible. All that is needed now is the management will.&#149; Seaford Head Advisers' demonstration takes place today at the National Liberal Club, London, at 2.30pm.
Small talkThe annualWebby awardspresentation in San Francisco last week was over in two hours thanks to the strict limit on speeches - five words or less . There were two sets of winners: sites nominated by members of the International Academy of Digital Arts &amp; Sciences, and sites picked by 134,000 webizens. The big winners includedNapster, the MP3 music site,Google, the best  search engine, andSlashdot, the Linux community site. See Six of the Best Webby winners below.Art prizeThe SFMoma (San Francisco Museum of Modern Art) Webby Prize for Excellence in Online Art, which carries a $30,000 prize, went to theEntropy8Zuper! team- Michael Samyn and Auriea Harvey - from Belgium. Seewww.sfmoma.org/info/webby_winner_announce.html.Film funAtomFilms, Be Here and Intel have teamed up to encourage film makers to produce 360 degree "immersive movies" for the web. The first, The New Arrival, written and directed by Amy Talkington, has just been unveiled at the Cannes Film Festival.  Proposals for films can be submitted atwww.atomfilms.com/default.asp?spot_id=88.    For further information, seewww.behere.com/aboutus.htm.Thumbs downWarner Bros new Battlefield Earth is generating huge interest because of the Scientology connection: it stars Scientologist John Travolta and is based on a book by the cult's founder, science fiction writer L Ron Hubbard. Theofficial websiteseems no better than the film, so tryFactnetwhich is covering allegations that the movie includes subliminal messages promoting   Scientology. It all makes Gladiator sound dull, though at least the websitehttp://gladiator-thefilm.comis just about passable.See theseThe new Tate Modern gallery is well worth a visit, thoughwww.tate.org.uk/moderndoesn't add much to the attraction. Nor does the official site for theEden project, which has just opened in Cornwall. Text may work better on the web than gratuitous graphics, but sometimes stunning pictures are required.Week endingsFancy a weekend in Brighton?Talkcast Corporationhas just launched a website that could helpwww.BrightonWeekend.com. If Brighton's  too far, how about Glasgow (www. GlasgowWeekend.com) or Edinburgh (guess)? Clearly there's a pattern to the sites, but if you fancy a weekend in Walsall, you may have to wait.Swat thisPeople who have to grapple with riff-raff at close quarters will enjoy the Metro Tactical website, which is selling BangPoles, Chalker Slings, and other products for Swat (special weapons and tactics) squads. The vicious-looking Raven Knives are available in a variety of colour configurations including Nato Green and United Nations Blue. The site atwww.metrotactical.comwas founded by former Los Angeles police officers.ContestThe National Autistic Society, Sega and NetMedia 2000, an annual internet conference, are running a contest that offers three challenges atwww.netmedia.co.uk/nas. You can design a website to help autistic children, adapt an existing site to meet their needs, or create a new site about autism. The competition closes at the end of the month, and NetMedia 2000 will be held at City University, London, on July 6-7.New and notedYahoo! is now carrying BBC News Online, which is good becauseYahoo!is better designed and less fussy about browsers. The Swedes may not be known for their humour but the British version ofFunPlanetwill fill a couple of tea-breaks. Don't miss the parody site atwww.lostminute.com, or the newOrange Prize for Fiction Website 2000. The first British e-commerce portal for the arts and antiques industry should be up and running by the end of the month atwww.antiques.co.uk.Six of the bestWebby winnersNews categorywww.poynter.org/medianewsPersonalwww.cockybastard.comPrint and Zineswww.nerve.comRadiowww.lostandfoundsound.comSciencewww.culture.fr/culture/arcnat/lascaux/frWeirdwww.stileproject.com
The next version of Lernout &amp; Hauspie's Voice Xpress program, which is expected shortly, is a huge improvement on anything released before, the company claims. Rather than simply trying to recognise speech, it also tries to recognise things that aren't speech, and discard them.Voice Xpress 5.0's new "disfluency filter" is designed to pick up the ums and ahs and ha-ha-has and remove them. These unwanted elements are not only tedious to edit out of recognised text, but they also make it harder for the software to follow sentence structure and use this knowledge to improve accuracy.Dr Alex Waibel, a professor at both Carnegie-Mellon University in the US and the University of Karlsruhe in Germany, has been working on the problem for some time. His company, Interactive Systems Inc, is also one of many that the fast-growing Belgian language giant has taken over.Waibel and his students have been researching the problems involved in recognising conversations, rather than dictation. "Conversational speech includes a lot of stutter, people leave out a lot of things, they mumble a lot of things," he says. "Some of the voice material is simply not there any more."The solution is to exploit much more of the information that's available. For example, it's possible to extract an image of the lips from the face and get the computer to do "visual lip reading". On its own, the approach doesn't work very well, says Waibel, but it can be used to increase the accuracy of speech recognition systems. For example, lip reading systems can easily distinguish between b and v, which to speech recognition systems sound the same.
As with humans, visual lip reading also becomes more valuable in noisy environments.
Some of Waibel's students have also developed a "meeting browser" which can recognise emotions -whether people are neutral, angry or sad, for example. The browser makes it possible to move backwards and forwards through a recording of a meeting and identify emotions. It's accuracy is limited, but people aren't always much better at the task.Waibel says it's important to look at gesture, speech, and eye movements to extract meaning: "Who are they talking to? What are they looking at? The purpose of speech is only known when you know something about the scene. We've just scratched the surface."
If you have a website, why have just one feather in your cap when you can have a hundred? Look around the web and there is a plethora of awards all waiting to be won. Flashily designed icons ranging from family honours to cool pet site prizes are there for the taking - for in most cases you just need to apply.The list is almost endless... the Surreal Website award, Duke of URL Classy Site award, Bonnie and Rex's   Radical award, the Zilinsky Family award, Cyber Teddy People's Choice top 500 award, Lisa/Lothy/Judy's creative site award.Then there are those which cost - they redesign the web page for a fee, before you apply for their award.   TheWebby awardsin the US, held last week in San Francisco, and theYell UK awards- due in July - might have prestige, but they are only two in the sea of   icons with which you can embellish your site.  So can anyone give anyone an award in the cyber world? The answer is obviously yes. Why issue them? Because the more awards you hand out, the more web pages will link back to your own.But surprisingly, there are a few website builders who have benefited from it all. Dr Vijay Prakash, a resident of Lucknow in north India, swears by the awards which have made him an instant net celebrity. His site Guide to Home Remedies and First Aidhttp://dr-vijayprakash.hypermart.nethas won him no fewer than 80 awards within a year. Up to 40 emailed queries are sent to him from all over the world each day, ranging from people worrying about snakebites to those looking for long-term asthma cures. He answers them all free, sometimes issuing "dadima ke nuskhe" - ancient herbal remedies passed down generations.The fame which the paediatrician could never earn even after practising for 14 years in his hometown is now his after just a few months on the web.   "These awards help in getting publicity. Earlier I used to apply to go to international conferences, now I get invitations to attend the same," says Dr Prakash. "They also agree to pay for the air fare," he adds, laughing.'Money is secondary - the response which I have got in the last few months is mindboggling. I also keep getting emails from expatriate Indians from all over the world who chance upon my site and are proud to see that I have bagged so many honours."Although he was the site of the month on AOL last October, he says his biggest recognition is the link provided to his site by the prestigious Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, USA.  For someone like Phil Barnett, a Cheshire bird watcher and winner of 1999 Yell best personal site and site of the year awards for hisBirds in a Cheshire Garden, his dual feat has not only made him famous overnight, but given him a career. "I had been suffering from ME and had been on a wheelchair for 10 years. Unable to do anything I used to keep watching birds in my garden," explains Barnett. "When my condition improved I bought myself a computer in 1997, got an internet connection and started designing web pages on my subject - birds."After getting the best personal site award I was shocked when my name was announced for the best site of the year award," says the self-taught web designer.   He has now opened his own web designing agency with a small, but growing, nationwide clientele.Barnett says that most web site awards are meaningless, but serve a purpose as another link in the web.  "One has to separate the wheat from the chaff," he adds. "I know of people who have got a hundred awards for sites which are not the least good."But the popularity of the big awards keeps growing. Nigel Marson, marketing communications controller at yell.com says nominations have increased by 25% this year. "There are new categories this year for small business, which also include nominations from people like plumbers and antique dealers," he says.Insisting that it is not just hits but the merit of the sites which bags them the awards, he cautiously declines to comment on the thousands of other little known prizes.  But for all those who get the honours just for asking, the prestige and origins of the award probably don't matter - they just want another icon to decorate their page.
The battle over digital music distribution - the most prominent example of how the internet is threatening the fundamentals of intellectual ownership and copyright - is heating up again. Over the past two weeks, bothMP3.comandNapster, the two best known net companies providing, or at least directing, users to music files both legal and illegal, lost legal skirmishes with the record industry in the US.In the first instance, the courts found in favour of the recording industry in its suit against MP3.com claiming that the company's creation of a database of 80,000 recordings violated copyright laws. The ruling was no surprise: the company was clearly storing and offering copyrighted music from its own servers. But it has forced providers of content - text, sound, software and art - to take more   seriously rules regarding reproducing material on the internet.The decision did not address the music industry's problem with Napster, the program that allows millions of users to share copyrighted music files. Since it launched last year, controversy over the program has been building as quickly as its user base, now in the millions.Not only is the music industry trying to shut down Napster with a series   of lawsuits alleging copyright infringement, but the service has also become the first instance of digital distribution to pit musicians directly against their fans.At the forefront of the battle against Napster is the heavy metal supergroup Metallica. Two weeks ago, members of the group - one that ironically began its career encouraging fans to duplicate its music on cassette - delivered 30 cardboard boxes to Napster's San Mateo headquarters containing the names of 335, 000 people who had downloaded Metallica songs using the service.Howard King, a lawyer for the group, said the names were gleaned by monitoring   the site and demanded Napster stop them using the service. Napster's lawyers argued that it is merely an internet service provider, or conduit, and not liable for piracy by its users. But under law it is obligated to bar users if they are proven to have infringed copyright - which it has.However, since the actual names of the users weren't gathered - only their service log-ons - those banned were able to re-register using a different name and resume trafficking.The band's action was only latest episode in its crusade against Napster. Last month a threatened suit against the universities of Yale and Indiana forced the administrators to block the service from its servers.Metallica, joined by rapper Dr Dre, alleged the universities allowed trade of copyrighted songs to flourish by failing to block access to the Napster."We take our craft - whether it be the music, the lyrics, or the photos and artwork - very seriously, as do most artists," Metallica drummer Lars Ulrich said in a statement. "It is therefore sickening to know that our art is being traded like a commodity rather than the art that it is."The group's stand has angered many fans, many of whom point out the apparent conflict between preaching rebellion and resistance to the system on the one hand and being a visible advocate for it on the other. "I am purposely going to download their entire next album from Napster for spite, remarked one aggrieved fan."Of course, other, younger, bands see the controversy as an opportunity.Limp Biskit, a rap-metal band sponsored by Napster, criticised fellow artists who have accused Napster of   promoting music piracy. "I would think the only people worried about that are people that are really worried about their bank accounts," said singer Fred Durst.The publicity surrounding MP3.com and Napster has led to dramatic surges in online traffic. During the week that Metallica and Dr Dre sued Napster, the company experienced a 20% jump in visitors to its web site. Moreover, it's not clear whether digital music piracy actually harms legitimate sales, or even acts as a promotion for fans to acquire the music they like   through legitimate channels."Napster could be the music industry's best friend," says Bruce Haring, author of Beyond The Charts: MP3 and the Digital Music Revolution. "The industry spends millions on radio promotion to get people to listen to songs - and Napster does that. They need to get a marketing and promotion team together to understand how they can make money from it."But the broader question - how intellectual property can be protected in a digital world? - is far from being answered. Millions of internet users have grown used to free information and content via the internet - something they will be unwilling to relinquish - and programs like Gnutella and Freenet make it possible to find and acquire files without using a central database, and thus deprive copyright holders the ability to trace the source and   destination of copyrighted information.Ian Clarke, a 23-year-old Irish programmer who developed Freenet, believes copyright protection is on the way to becoming obsolete in the internet era. "I think that people will look back in 20 to 40 years and look at the idea that you can own information in the same way as gold or real estate in the same way we look at witch burning today," he says.He predicts that corporations trying to develop technologies to encrypt information or otherwise halt unregulated sharing of computer data would ultimately fail. "I have two words for these companies: give up," he said. "There is no way they are going to stop these technologies. They are trying to plug holes in a dam that is about to burst."Though it can hardly   endorse Clarke's viewpoint, there are signs that the music industry is adapting to the idea of digital distribution. The music industry giants, Time-Warner, Sony, BMG and Universal, have already started various pay-for-play digital distribution services. The vast entertainment conglomerate BMG recently hired Dick Wingate, a senior vice president at Liquid Audio and a former recording industry executive, to oversee putting the company's vast music catalogue online and combating piracy.Taking a pro-active rather than re-active approach, Wingate says the industry now has no choice. "Until the majors put significant amounts of their catalogue into authorised distribution," he says, "you're forcing music fans who want to download music to find unauthorised copies."
With my Windows PC fast approaching that depressingly regular state of instability where only a complete reinstallation can correct it, I was only too happy to try an alternative. But my experiences as a first time user indicate that the truth about Linux is more complex than the enthusiasts would have us believe.As nobody actually owns Linux, various distributions are available and I sampled two. To see whether "free software" could be financially as well as intellectually gratis, I obtained Mandrake 7.0 from a magazine cover disk. The other, shrinkwrapped and boxed, was Caldera OpenLinux 2.4. Costing around &#163;30, it's still a fraction of the retail price of Windows and contains a comprehensive - and generally commendably clear - printed manual: something Microsoft seems to consider a luxury nowadays.Linux was once notorious for the complexity of installation. But recent versions boast streamlined setup routines to automate the process as much as possible. While neither of those I tried was quite as smooth as Windows, they weren't overly daunting, with Caldera offering an impressive range of hardware choices.One problem common to both was that during setup, my PS/2 mouse wouldn't work. It finally came to life when Mandrake booted for the first time but in OpenLinux it remained resolutely frozen. Caldera's email technical support was impressively swift to reply but   unfortunately it couldn't provide a solution before this article's deadline.I was also left without an internet connection as my internal Winmodem is Windows specific and beyond Linux's capabilities. A permanent transfer would see me buying an external model.Setting up the PC-to-PC Ethernet link I use to transfer files to my laptop also had me stumped. This is fairly simple with Windows, using IPX/SPX, but the only protocol that Linux appears to offer is TCP/IP, which requires establishing a server with an IP address; a far more complex process than I was prepared for.As befits its new, friendly reputation, Linux boasts a graphical user interface (GUI) similar to Windows or Mac OS. In fact, it boasts several, from near-clones Gnome and KDE to more exotic variations such as WindowMaker. Most distributions have a selection.The differences go far beyond the cosmetic options of Windows' themes, though. In fact, there's almost an embarrassment of riches, which probably presents the everyday computer user with more choices than they want to consider.Despite the surface similarities of the GUIs, I discovered I couldn't simply leap in. There are crucial discrepancies between Linux's approach and its commercial rivals. For example, you can't immediately read a floppy or CD in Linux; they have to be specifically mounted first. With just an undocumented cover disk, Linux proved inscrutable; I really needed Caldera's manual to clarify the basics.KDE and Gnome's task and active program bars seem to take up an inordinate amount of screen space, at least at 800 x 600 resolution. In fact, the look and feel of the whole system seemed fairly "chunky", rather like an application developed with a rapid development system compared with one coded from the ground up.It's also worth remembering that you're not just changing operating systems; you'll have to learn a whole new selection of programs. Star Office, probably the best known business suite, is perfectly competent and can import and export many standard file formats.For graphics, Gimp seems to be at least as good as PaintShop Pro and Netscape is reassuringly identical. But some areas are not so well covered, such as dedicated accounting software - the Java-based money program included by Caldera is no rival for Quicken.Despite Linux's much-touted stability, I also encountered several error messages, even in the short time I was experimenting. To its credit, the software never crashed but I wonder whether it would still be quite so robust after six months of the sort of abuse I give to Windows.The biggest problem arose when I came to remove Linux. Both versions come with boot loaders. These are small programs which hide away on the hard disk and cannot be eradicated with a simple Format or with Fdisk, so it's impossible to reinstall Windows.Eventually I discovered a solution, buried on Caldera's website, which required an obscure and powerful Fdisk switch, /MBR. This removed the offending programs but convinced my PC's Bios that the hard drive was half its actual size. Most alarming.Based on this first encounter, I can see that Linux is coming of age. But there are still significant rough edges. System administration presents a steep learning curve, which may be fine for IT professionals and even hobbyists, but I can't see the small office user who just wants to get down to work being prepared to devote the necessary time and effort.All the same, the pace of Linux development probably means that these shortcomings will be rectified sooner rather than later. And while there's a danger that a system which is put together in such a piecemeal fashion could end up like a horse designed by a committee, it may also reach maturity by a process of natural selection and in the process become a fully fledged alternative to Windows or Mac OS.It would be a pity if the premature hype left potential users disillusioned. But for the time being, unless you're a computer enthusiast, I'd advise you to ponder carefully before picking up this particular penguin.Look up your LinuxMain Linux sitewww.linux.orgOpen Source infowww.opensource.orgLinux newswww.linuxnews.comLinux Journalwww.linuxjournal.comLinux communitywww.linux.comAlan Cox's websitewww.linux.org.ukIntro to Linuxwww.linux.co.ukLinux user groupswww.lug.org.ukLinux magazinewww.linuxuser.co.ukLinux ISPwww.frontier-internet.ltd.uk
Winning SimsThe Sims took the Game of the Year award at the ceremony hosted in the US last week by the Academy of Interactive Arts and Sciences. Soul Calibur (Sega Dreamcast) was Console Game of the Year, Age Of Empires II: Age Of Kings was Computer Game of the Year, and EverQuest was Online Game of the Year. Asheron's Call won the prize for the best   adventure/role playing game, while Microsoft Flight Simulator 2000 Professional took the simulation category. The winners in the console section included Crazy Taxi (Sega Dreamcast) and Final Fantasy VIII (Sony PlayStation). Hironobu Sakaguchi, creator of the Final Fantasy series, was inducted into the Academy's hall of fame.PS2 in viewSony plans to launch the PlayStation 2 in the US on October 26, a month later than the rumoured date. However, the pricewill be $299, the same as the original PSX in 1995. There will be a million machines for sale at the launch, and they will be different from the Japanese version in having an expansion bay that will take a hard drive.DC-PSXSega Dreamcast owners could soon be able to play PlayStation games, because Bleem! is planning to release its PlayStation emulator for the Dreamcast console. Meanwhile, Sega of America says that Shenmue, the 3D cinematic game intended to be the standard bearer for the Dreamcast, will finally ship on November 14. However, it's a year late, and therefore will have to compete with Sony PlayStation 2 games launched the month before.New LaraYorkshire-born model Lucy Clarkson has taken over from Lara Weller as the human face of Lara Croft, just in time    to face a possible challenger. Joanna Dark, from Rare's forthcoming Nintendo 64 game Perfect Dark, is about to burst on to the scene. Indeed, Joanna appeared at last week's E3 games trade   exhibition in Los Angeles, in the person of Michelle Merkin, a model in a black jumpsuit. However, Merkin is outnumbered: Lara is also being played by movie star Angelina Jolie in the forthcoming Paramount film of Tomb Raider, and could also call on Nathalie Cook (1996), Rhona Mitra (1997), and Nell McAndrew (1998).Mew newsIf you think you might be anywhere near the Bluewater shopping mall in Kent on May 27, it's time to plan evasive action. Nintendo is planning to release the "secret" 151st Pok&eacute;mon monster there for master trainers to download atwww.pokemon-stadium.co.uk. You have been warned.
Hyperstar lives up to its hypeStarlancerPC CD-rom&#163;34.99 Digital Anvil/Microsoft  *****Developed by the creators of Wing Commander, financed by the richest company in the world, surrounded by the biggest cloud of hype since Star Wars Episode I - it would be a strange old universe if Starlancer was anything but a disappointment.Disappointingly, though, it's great. Indeed, in terms of visuals, it may be the single most impressive game yet. The stunning title sequence isn't so unusual: the surprise is that the in-game graphics are almost as good.With moving parts on the ships, blazing guns, and shields that glow when hit, the level of detail is awe-inspiring. And if you happen to round on the sun during a dogfight, you may forget to breathe, never mind deploy electronic countermeasures.And don't worry about your ears feeling left out. The orchestral music is both ominous and uplifting, and the sound effects are top-notch, although this may be   because they were lifted wholesale from Star Wars. No complaints either about the interface, which, despite offering you too many options (is anyone really going to remember to divert all power to shields when someone' s on their tail?), is relatively easy to pick up.Real thought has gone into the multiplayer modes, too. Head-to-head action in the space combat genre usually means a mindless free-for-all, but here there's a wide and varied range of options, for co-operators and deathmatch psychos alike.As far as solo play goes, you know the drill. Missions of various styles, briefings, ship upgrades later in the game. The storyline, if a little predictable - a traitor in our midst? Stone me - is not just developed between missions, but neatly integrated into the action.The only glaring flaw is the corny-as-oats premise, which sees the west still slugging it out with the east 180 years in the future. Sure, it could happen, but some imagination (not to say optimism) wouldn't have gone amiss.Still, as any film producer will tell you, war is not about right and wrong. War is about glory, shooting things, and spectacular explosions. And on that front, Starlancer is light-years ahead. (AB)Sneaking with the SnakeMetal Gear SolidGame Boy Color&#163;24.99  Konami/Nintendo 	****Metal Gear Solid made "stealth" gaming famous: instead of hacking or blasting your way through platoons of canon fodder, the idea is to sneak through the game killing as few enemies as possible.This aspect proved easy to transfer to the Game Boy Color. But MGS was also one of the first to conjure up a cinematic sort of atmosphere, and it requires a considerable act of charity to say the same.It's not that the graphics and sound are bad, just that the Game Boy's primitive colour screen and warbling beeps really aren't up to the job.Still, you get a lot of game for the money. There's the excellent VR training system   - also used for a two-player version of the game - plus 13 levels to sneak through.Although different from the Sony PlayStation version, the plot is similar, and MGS fans will feel at home. You play Solid Snake, brought out of semi-retirement to infiltrate the enemy base where a stolen bipedal war machine, Metal Gear, is hidden. The idea that you've done all this before is built in to the game.But Konami has tried to make the game accessible to newcomers - at least, if they remember to use the Codec communications device to contact Mei Ling and others back at command HQ.The four difficulty levels, from Easy to Very Hard, also give younger and older players a chance to get through most levels, though it has to be said that Easy is a relative concept. With more than speed and brute force being required to complete the game, I suspect that even the 12-15s are going to find it a challenge.  (JS)Kicking the same old idea aroundEuro 2000Sony PlayStation&#163;34.99 EA Sports 	**Like Southampton avoiding relegation and England bowing out on penalties, some things in football seem inevitable. Take the Fifa series for example. Come hell, high water or the   Stockton U16 5-a-side championship, there will always be a Fifa footy game alongside.The forthcoming Euro 2000 tournament is yet another excuse for an update. But International Superstar Soccer Pro Evolution (ISS Pro) was released earlier this year and suddenly the goalposts have moved.No more must silicon footie fans put up with delayed passes, players skating over the pitch or 8-7 scorelines. ISS made you think like a footballer, with the act of scoring as difficult, but as   rewarding, as the real thing. Euro 2000, however, makes scoring as easy as pressing the circle button and as memorable as a basketball dunk.Never mind patient build-ups and defence splitting through balls; let's just sprint through the opposing team before lashing in yet another scorcher_ and another, and another. But Euro 2000 does have some redeeming features.You can faithfully recreate this summer's tournament, including the qualifying stages, and all the players and stadiums are accurate. The   pumping Paul Oakenfold soundtrack is aggressively energising, and you can even replay classic encounters of old - including the '96 England Germany semi-final.But as usual, this window dressing does little to improve the shortcomings on the pitch. With Hoddle's rejuvenated Saints set to threaten next season's top 10 and England not even practising penalties, it seems football is moving on. It's time the Fifa series did too.  (GH)
Virus alertMartin Clark quotes Graham Cluley of Sophos (Online, May 11) as saying: "There's a fight between PC functionality and security. Microsoft could solve, say, the macro virus problem tomorrow. But it won't, for legitimate commercial reasons... Security always loses out to functionality. That has been the history of software."No. That has been the history of Microsoft. Some of us can remember saner days."Legitimate commercial reasons"? Not, certainly in terms of professional integrity or responsibility. As to "functionality", the term is too wide; there are useful functions and frivolous functions, and irresponsible salesmen find the latter easier to sell. As to Microsoft being unable to sell the thing - one is almost compelled to buy it because it is becoming, God help us, an industry standard.The popular view of computer systems appears to have become so far removed from the basic essentials that it seems people have to be reminded of the obvious: it is no more possible to lose control of your computer to rogue code by simply reading or processing a data file than it is to contract syphilis by reading pornography.All that is necessary to prevent all virus infections is to ensure that no resident software ever cedes control to invasive code which is not part of the software. If fresh executable code is required, it should be acquired from a manufacturer's website - not as the casual by-blow of an email attachment.Obviously, people can download any old rubbish from dodgy acquaintances, or develop programs themselves without adequate testing; but this does not affect thousands of other users. The decision to run a program should always be conscious, not implied.Bill Coxwjvc@nufsed.demon.co.ukMicrosoft changed its mind and on Monday said it would limit Outlook's functionality "to provide a significantly improved level of security".When I was a young programmer, writing a virus involved much arcane knowledge and tedious hacking around with boot sectors in assembly language, so that as well as being an anti-social activity it was also  hard .Contrary to several reports, including yours, Love Bug is not particularly clever code. Any moderately competent Visual Basic programmer could do this; with example source code to hand - such as that supplied free with every virus infestation, the task is within the reach of a novice.Expect much more of this.Will Wattswillw@applied.co.ukFalling bodiesI fear that your correspondent George H Westgarth may have used the wrong example when trying to explain the behaviour of falling bodies (Online, May 11).An open parachute will, as he states, reduce the terminal velocity of a falling object, but this is because the gravitational force is unchanged, but the surface area has increased.Because air resistance depends upon both surface area and speed, the force due to air resistance will equal the gravitational force at a lower speed (because of the larger area) and so the parachutist falls more slowly.If a hailstone is doubled in diameter, its mass and therefore the force due to gravity will increase by eight times, but its surface area will increase by only four times. To achieve an eightfold increase in force with only a fourfold increase in area the larger hailstone will have to fall faster than the smaller one.The ratio between area and volume has many effects in science apart from moving bodies, eg explaining the maximum size of land based mammals, cooling and heating and partly explaining why mist stays and rain falls.Eric Murphyericmurphy@cableinet.co.ukMr Westgarth is too hasty to criticise a line in Snowballs of the Gods (Science, May 4) saying "the law of physics makes a bigger hailstone fall faster".He is correct in saying that all objects large and small accelerate at the same rate under gravity, but gravity is not the only force that applies.The law of physics referred to is that a bigger hailstone has a lower ratio of surface area to mass than a small one of the same shape, and so is slowed less by air resistance.   As a result, small hailstones fall at 10-20 m/s (22-44 mph), large ones at around 40 m/s (88 mph). Larger chunks of ice will hit the ground - or your car - even faster, and will do correspondingly greater damage.When Galileo dropped two weights off the Leaning Tower of Pisa and told the world that everything falls at the same rate, we can only assume he allowed for air resistance before announcing his result.David Hamblingdavid_hambling@compuserve.comGalileo's balls of different sizes must have been large and dense enough for air resistance not to make much difference over the distance of their fall.For hailstones of different sizes falling thousands of feet, it does make a difference - theHyperPhysicssite  calculates much higher terminal velocities for the larger hailstones. And the destructive energy of a hailstone (its kinetic energy) has an even greater dependence on velocity than mass.Jonathan Lawrencehandiwork@compuserve.comNo jobsI read with disbelief your article, Engineering, sexy? Why not? (May 11). As a recent graduate of the University of Liverpool in Aerospace engineering (2.ii Hons) I am well versed in the opportunities that await new engineering graduates. In short, very few. I have been unemployed for over six months now and I have applied to more than 60 engineering, aerospace and defence companies. From these applications I have had three interviews.Mike Coulson, recruitment manager at BAe systems, says talent is scarce. Well why doesn't he start interviewing graduates? No one in my graduating class who applied to BAe systems was given an interview, nor has anyone from this year's graduating class. No wonder he is having trouble finding talent.I attended the National Engineering Recruitment Exhibition at Wembley and found it almost as useless as most other fairs.I did notice the fairly poor attendance of graduates. Maybe this was due to the fact that the conference dates were in the middle of most people's final exams!Andrew Doidgeschenkmaps@aol.com
X offApple has just delayed the release of its next generation operating system, Mac OS X (pronounced "ten") by about six months. Or as Apple boss Steve Jobs says, it has changed what would have been a summer launch into a "public beta" release. "Like a lot of things in life, you can do   what you were going to do but change the names of things to make a lot of people happy," Jobs said. Mac OS X is a version of BSD Unix, and needs a G3 or G4 processor and 64 megabytes of memory. It is based on the NextStep operating system, created by Next, Jobs' former company. Apple bought Next at the end of 1996 to provide a faster way of replacing the ageing Mac OS.Out of the boxElectronic Arts, the world's biggest independent computer and video games software supplier, has had enough of shipping PC games in big boxes that are mostly empty. It has decided to switch to the cases used for DVD movies, This will save publishers money and enable retailers to make better use of shelf space, argues EA. It's also looking forward to the time when Sony PlayStation 2 and other games consoles will play DVD movies, and it hopes other games houses will follow its lead."EA has a long tradition of teaching the interactive entertainment sector to think outside the box," quips Frank Sagnier, the marketing boss of EA Europe. EA games should start appearing in DVD cases in October.Nic's backOracle boss Larry Ellison, on course to become the world's richest man, is trying to give the kiss of life to his failed Network Computer idea. His first network computer company, Network Computer Inc (NIC) took a different tack when - like many other firms - it found that network    computers didn't sell: it changed its name to Liberate and switched successfully to interactive TV. Now Ellison has founded New Internet Computer (NIC) with what looks like the old logo. It is being run by a former ABC-TV technology journalist, Gina Smith. NIC's 266MHz $199 NC will not have a hard drive, monitor, keyboard or speakers but will run the GNU/Linux operating system and a browser from CD-rom. It's intended to provide access to email and the internet: "We're not positioning this as a replacement for the PC," Smith says. As usual, the problem is that by the time you've added the missing bits, the cost - $376 - is not far off a cheap PC. NIC has launched a website atwww.thinknic.com.See throughIf the transparent Game Boy is no longer delivering the street cred you need, Pioneer's PDV-10-SW portable DVD player may do the trick. It's about the size of a paperback book and weighs less than 350g. It plays PAL region 2 (Europe) AND NTSC Region 2 (Asian) discs but not American ones. The price is &#163;499 from the sole importer,Ionmark.Mini MiniDiscSony claims it has launched the world's smallest MiniDisc system, the MZ-E90. It weighs just 70g without batteries, but it's a playback-only device. For people who want a recording MD Walkman, the   MZ-R91 does the business in a shirt-pocket sized system that weighs 110g, without batteries.Pedal powerSeveral decades ago, bicycles were often fitted with dynamos to generate power to run their lights. Nowadays few cyclists can be bothered with lights, but inventor Kieron Loy has resurrected   the idea as a way of recharging a mobile phone. Loy is now negotiating to get the device into production, and yes, patents have been applied for.Chip upThis weekend, Castle Technology will unveil a new version of the Acorn RiscPC using a StrongARM (formerly Acorn Risc Machine) chip. The Acorn RISC OS Show is being held in Thornes Park Athletics Stadium. Wakefield, Yorkshire, on May 20-22 (seewww.cybervillage.co.uk/acorn/wakefield/). Castle manufactures Acorn products under licence from Pace Micro Technology plc. Seewww.castle.org.uk.
Real Home Magazine's 3D DesignerBroderbund	&#163;29.99This program is clever, but not clever enough. This thinly-Britified US import (on the boxlid, a Tudor cottage with roses - typical English house) promises to let you visualise your home in three dimensions and then play around with it, adding furniture, moving walls and redecorating.Since I'm moving into a new flat, this seemed like a good idea. And, up to a point,   it works. Having already measured the rooms, it wasn't difficult to recreate the two floors in plan form on the screen and put them together with various menus and mouse-clicks. You add doors and windows, and then the fun begins. Switch to aerial view, lift off the roof, and you can rotate a three-dimensional doll's-house view of your future home. Switch to walk-through view, and you can take a slow, rather jerky virtual tour.This is the point at which you can begin to furnish and decorate - change the colour of the walls, install a bed, kitchen units, a wardrobe. When everything's set up to your satisfaction, pick a decent viewing angle, pick the lighting you want, and select the highest quality screen rendering.In a few minutes a Toy Story-quality snapshot of your fantasy room will appear, with shadows, lamplight and texture all nicely reproduced. The reflection of our virtual bedroom in the mirrored doors of our virtual wardrobe was particularly impressive.In short, a good idea, and a useful tool to stop you slapping a pink four-poster in the   lime-green boxroom (unless that's what you like). So much for the good news.  Unfortunately the inherent complexity of the challenge isn't fully overcome.The software is happiest creating square or rectangular spaces, particularly where outside walls are concerned. I found it impossible to recreate the flat's L-shaped hallway, and the stairs between floors were tricky to get in the right place.You don't need a piece of   computer software to rearrange the furniture in your sitting room, but shifting kitchen units and plumbing around is a different matter. Probably the most useful feature of 3D Designer for ordinary householders is the ability to visualise new kitchens and bathrooms.Here another weakness comes in - the limited number of kitchen and bathroom furnishings and fittings included in the software. I wanted to see how the washing machine would look in the kitchen, for instance, but the only image available was of a top-loading white monstrosity which looked as if it had been designed in the 1950s.Broderbund provides links to an American website which, supposedly, enables you to download images of thousands of brand-name goods, but on two attempts I've been unable to do so.And if the virtual catalogue is in the US, how relevant is it to the UK? This is two thirds of the way to a winner, but lacks a more user-friendly interface and a more thorough Europeanisation.
What is iD Solutions?iD Solutions is a group dedicated to the document domain. When people say document management, even in IT-literate circles, some people immediately think of archiving, storage and imaging systems. Others might think of it as document content management - looking after huge libraries of information and tracking the change to it. The third group is what I would call document generation. That's the consistent high-quality production of statements, insurance policies or correspondence. It's in this last area that Cincom's iD Solutions is strong.We're into large-scale, generally interactive, document generation. With the term "document" being used to describe the process and the content creation rather than the delivery mechanism.How do the UK's IT and internet skills compare with other countries?We are so risk averse. Obviously Cincom's based in the US, which is a very exciting environment, but in the UK it's amazing how many Australian software companies you come across. Statistically there may not actually be that many but it appears that they're more prepared to take a risk.How do you feel major corporations are adapting to e-commerce?What we see is the large companies plucking one person from here and one from there then whacking them into a new office and saying "go do it". It's easier to do that than it is to tell the whole organisation to give these people freedom to change the way in which that company does business. It does, however, mean that those people are re-inventing a hell of a lot of wheels!Is there real money being made from e-commerce?Absolutely. The example I always give is the penetration of mobile phones - Finland now has 86% of over 14 year olds with a mobile phone.The level of penetration of e-commerce is going to go the same way ... whatever prediction people make, just double it.Any thoughts on the proposed break-up of Microsoft?I can't believe it will happen. Why would America take its crown jewel and break it up? If you break up Microsoft, you will lose that critical mass and I find it hard to believe that somebody won't realise that before they do it. It would be like America giving up their leadership of IT and I wouldn't like to be the president that signed that off.Any favourite places on the web?I had my laptop stolen in Brussels recently and I was devastated as I lost all my favourite bookmarks. I do love some pretty standard sites. I'm going to sayAmazonbecause I love being able to go in, browse, then one click into the basket and all my credit card and address details are stored. They're a market leader that doesn't need any endorsing from me. I also really like theNasdaq site. It's easy to use - you've got your 10 favourites in there, and I can put half a dozen of my main competitors in and bounce in there for 30 seconds once a week to see if there have been any great spikes or changes.
The US government continued to push for Microsoft, the world's largest software company, to be broken up last night in the latest round of the legal battle.In a 50-page document expected to be filed after stock markets closed in New York, the US justice department rejected the company's plea for far weaker sanctions on its anti-competitive behaviour. Both sides are due to present their arguments to Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson in Washington next week.Last month, Judge Jackson ruled that Microsoft had broken American anti-trust laws by abusing its dominance of the personal computer market. He had indicated a desire to finish the case soon, possibly by this summer. But Microsoft has asked for an extension until December to prepare its case against the government's proposals.Yesterday's filing was expected to outline the government's view of a prolonged hearing. Separately, official financial records for the US presidential candidates identified George W Bush, the Republican candidate, as a Microsoft shareholder.The Texas governor has criticised the government's campaign against Microsoft for going beyond laws designed to stamp out predatory pricing.Dan Bartlett, a spokesman for the governor, said yesterday the shares were in a blind trust and were therefore managed without the governor's knowledge by Northern Trust, a fund management group.The shares were thought to be worth just over $100,000 at yesterday's stock market price. The financial statement filed earlier this month revealed that Mr Bush's assets include a diversified trust worth more than $1m as well as a 1,500-acre ranch of similar value.
The UK's internet startup sector last night suffered its first high-profile casualty when Boo.com, the online sportswear retailer, called in liquidators after running out of cash.Directors at Boo.com decided to call in liquidators from the accountancy firm KPMG after existing investors refused to add to the estimated &#163;80m they had poured into the firm, which was set up 18 months ago. Boo.com sources indicated it had been looking for an extra &#163;20m to stay afloat.About 200 staff in London, plus a further 100 in five offices across the world, are likely to learn their fate when they turn up for work this morning.Boo.com was founded by two 30-year-old Swedes, Ernst Malmsten and Kajsa Leander, and based in London's former fashion hub of Carnaby Street. Technology problems delayed the launch and a raft of senior executives left. In the new year it was forced to cut a quarter of its workforce.The reverberations are likely to be felt across the domestic internet sector and to be an embarrassment to Boo's heavyweight shareholders, which include the French billionaire owner of the LVMH luxury goods company Bernard Arnault, the Benetton family and US investment banks Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan.
Guardian Media Group yesterday accelerated its drive into new media with plans for Workthing.com, an online employment service offering everything from job ads to agony aunt advice on why you failed that interview.The website will go live in the summer and aims to operate across all sectors of industry. From the beginning it will carry classified advertising and content from the Guardian newspaper's key franchises in media, education and the public sector. Similar deals are likely to be struck with content providers strong in other employment sectors.The venture, which has already built a staff of more than 50, aims to become the primary online recruitment service in the UK and will compete head on with servcies such asMonster.com, which launched last year.Workthing.com addresses key concerns in conventional media companies that classified advertising in particular will migrate online.The venture claims to have highly sophisticated search engines that will present very specific opportunities for job hunters.Bob Phillis, chief executive   of GMG, which publishes the Guardian, said: "Online recruitment is growing at a phenomenal rate. Workthing.com fits perfectly with GMG's strategy of adapting to markets quickly and professionally, and I am very confident that it will be viewed as an invaluable resource both by employers and people seeking to manage their careers."The business will make revenues from areas such as job advertising, charging employers to access CV databases and from transactional services such as companies offering employment training.GMG already runs the family of Guardian Unlimited websites, includingJobs Unlimited, which generates 12m page impressions a month. It also operatesObserver.co.ukand the newLearn.co.ukeducation site.Workthing.com is headed by Andy Baker, who joined the group from United News &amp; Media, where he was responsible for developing a US-based website for hi-tech professionals.Carolyn McCall, the managing director-designate of Guardian Newspapers, said the broad-based recruitment service would be complementary to the "vertical" websites run under the Guardian Unlimited brand.
The Premier League is demanding a share of revenues from online betting and other interactive services run by the media company which wins the main rights to broadcast live matches from the 2001-2 season.A copy of the tender document adds a clause to the package of 66 live matches which requires the bidder to   include projections of how much revenue it hopes to generate through the exploitation of interactive services enabled by digital television.The Premier League also wants the broadcasters to outline the percentage they would hand over to the game's officials plus the size of a non-returnable advance each season.Different deals on interactive revenues will subsequently be agreed between the league and each platform that   agrees to carry the live games. Similar demands are made on bidders for the pay-per-view package of 40 live games."It's sensible of the Premier League to look at the interactive element and try to write something into the agreement," said Nick Batram, sport and leisure analyst at broking firm Granville Baird. "Whether deals end up being structured in that way is a different issue."The 23-page document   forms the basis for what is expected to be the most expensive broadcasting deal in sport. The growing number of broadcasters jostling for position in Britain has prompted estimates on the amount that will be generated by the process to soar as high as &#163;2bn. Anyone winning the main live rights will have to pay 7.5% of the fee on offer immediately.Initial bids were lodged with the league last week and offi cials are now meeting broadcasters to flesh out their proposals. Channel 5 is understood to be at the league's offices this morning. Around 75 tender documents were sent out to interested broadcasters and all the mainstream TV firms in Britain are expected to feature including BSkyB, NTL, Telewest, OnDigital and the ITV companies.Speculation is growing that the key bidders may agree between themselves which set of   rights they will bid for in the hope of keeping the price as low as possible.The tender document says the league will either draw up a shortlist of a maximum of five bids for each package of rights on offer or move to recommend a single bid straight away. The process will then move to either sealed bids or an auction. A number of clubs are believed to favour the auction method.Under the current deal,   hatched on the eve of Euro 96, BSkyB paid &#163;670m for five years with the BBC winning a highlights package for &#163;73m.In the current bidding process there are two free-to-air highlights packages and clubs will have rights to screen their own matches on their own channels or websites on a delayed basis.The contract length for the new set of broadcast rights has been reduced from five to three years.
A new powerhouse in the internet market was created last night when Spanish service provider Terra Networks agreed a $10.6bn (&#163;6.5bn) deal to acquire Lycos, the American web company.Terra, which is controlled by Spain's former state telephone company Telefonica, is already the largest internet business in Europe and the deal creates a strong competitor to the headlining US internet firms.Some estimates said the combined group would be one of the four largest internet operations in the world.The deal is the latest in the rapid consolidation of the still fledgling internet industry as businesses seek to establish dominant positions. Terra plans to offer about 1.7 shares for each in Lycos, valuing it at $96.70 a share.Established in 1998, Terra has attracted millions of Spanish and Portuguese-speaking internet users in both Europe and Latin America.Analysts said the deal with Lycos would open doors in the US, which has an estimated 35m Spanish speakers with an average income well above that of their counterparts south of the border. Terra has a market capitalisation of around &euro;19bn.Lycos shares climbed $15 to over $75 in early trade on the New York markets.
Internet service providerAmerica Onlinemoved yesterday to reassure investors that its merger with media group Time Warner was on track yesterday amid concern that regulatory scrutiny would hamper the ground-breaking deal.In a speech to an industry conference, Bob Pittman, the AOL president, said the group expected combined revenues of $40bn (&#163;26.5bn) next year as well as cost savings of $1bn in AOL-Time Warner's first year of operation.Rumours about the difficult anti-trust negotiations involving such a large cable network and the world's largest ISP, denied by the groups, have been circulating in the past week.A note by analysts at Merrill Lynch, AOL's financial adviser, sought to reassure investors by stating that AOL executives were "comfortable the merger will close by the end of the year as expected".The note, by Henry Blodget and Jessica Reif Cohen, remarked that many investors have called "regarding the progress" of the merger. They also reiterated a buy rating on both companies, mentioning that Mr Pittman was meeting all Time Warner divisions in an attempt to foster greater co-operation between them.Analysts have raised questions about how the various parts of the group can work together. In an interview yesterday, Ms Reif Cohen said: "There may be a little bit more   scrutiny &#91;about the deal&#93; but nobody really thinks that the deal won't get done."Comments yesterday from Mr Pittman, who is to be co-chief operating officer of the combined group, lifted the share prices of both groups.AOL rose almost $2 to more than $57, though shares are still trading almost a third below their pre-announcement level. The deal is valued at almost 25% less than in January.Mr Pittman - who is to take over post-merger cable operations told a conference organised by the Bank of America that cashflow from the combine would increase by 30% in its first year. His forecast for revenues of $40bn in 2001 were made to show growth potential for a combined group.
What are you driving?Jaguar, Vanden Plas, 2000 in cream.What does that say about you?I know how to spend hard earned money wisely.What do you like about it?It's comfortable and has lots of space in the rear for my passengers.What kind of driver are you?Careful and considerate.Any bad habits?I become heavy footed on the accelerator when there's no traffic.What was your first car?A 1978 Monza.Have you ever crashed/got a speeding ticket/got any points?I've been rear-ended twice, resulting in serious physical injury. I've never had a ticket or any points.Have you experienced roadrage?I once looked in my rear view mirror and saw an angry lorry driver   approaching me with a large wrench in his hand. He had been honking at me while I waited for on-coming traffic so that I could make a left turn into my driveway. He was angry because he couldn't pass me. I was able to move just in time.What sort of state is your car in?Showroom condition inside and out.What's in the boot/glove compartment?Glove compartment: lotion, deodorant, cleaning tickets, photo development claim checks. Boot: umbrella, cloth cleaner to wipe dirty hand prints or spills from the leather interior.Have you ever had sex in a car?No - but several midnight picnics with my husband at the beach.What do you listen to on the road?Gospel, Whitney Houston, prospective recordings for myself, George Gershwin.What would be your dream car?I have it - it's the best.Who would be your dream passenger?Nat King Cole. He could sing to me and make me enjoy tailbacks.
Have you ever be on a routine journey somewhere and, as you've neared your destination, been seized by the sudden, devastating impulse to disown your life and just keep going? When Julie Holdcroft left her house two weeks ago, she had a definite purpose: to go to London Bridge and see-off friends participating in the Classic Rally Associations round the world rally. It was not an ambitious plan. She had a nine-year-old son, Tyler, at home in Bexhill, and a part time job as a hairdresser. She was not having a nervous breakdown. She was not wanted for murder. She was simply a woman enjoying a day out.At 10am, she stood on the bridge with 5,000 other spectators, cheering on a fleet of old cars as they prepared to embark on their 80-day odyssey. At the head of the rally stood a seven-and-a-half litre Rolls-Royce, a 1913 Silver Ghost given pole position for being the oldest car in the race. As the crowd clapped and whistled and the engines roared, it became apparent that something was wrong. The Rolls wouldn't budge; the cars behind it couldn't pass. As the air cooked with petrol fumes, a feeling of panic entered the atmosphere. In agitation, the car's driver appealed to the crowd for help. He was a crew member down and couldn't set off unless he replaced him. Julie Holdcroft, 40 years old, felt the irresistible tug of destiny. "You have to do it, you have to grab it," she thought, and sailed out of the crowd towards the vehicle. Ten hours later, she was in France.Since returning from her adventure, Holdcroft has been compared to Shirley Valentine, the middle aged heroine of Willy Russell's film about a woman who goes on holiday and never returns. Holdcroft rejects the image. "Somebody said, you're like Shirley Valentine and I thought, oh crumbs, I'm not trying to escape a boring life, I love my life!" Her flight was a realisation of a common fantasy of taking a break from ourselves by doing something weird and irrational. "I didn't surprise myself," says Holdcroft. "I thought, if you're not hurting anyone, why not?"Besides, when she jumped into the driver's seat, she only intended to go as far as Dover. She had no passport, no jacket, no provisions. It was a Monday morning and she had a week    of perms and tints in front of her. In three weeks she would sit her final exams in art and design at college in Hastings. This was no time for taking off round the world with a man she had never met before. But the    momentum of the adventure got into her bloodstream and she couldn't let it go. When she and her driver Terry Maxon, an American in his 60s, reached Dover, they sailed through passport control without a worry and   it seemed to Julie Holdcroft that the only proper thing was to go on.Holdcroft is not by nature a cautious woman. She and her son live in a cottage two miles from the East Sussex coast. She has artistic flair, she says, and arty people are known for their impulsiveness. The day she left England, her son was staying with her ex-husband and one phone call ensured that he would be well looked after. She judged that the revision could wait, the dog could be fed by neighbours and all that stood in her way was the hairdressing. She was resolved not to sacrifice the dream for the sake of a few highlights.It was dark when she and Maxon arrived in Calais. The car was so noisy they had to yell at one another, and by Dover she hadn't made out Maxon's character. To Holdcroft's relief, it emerged in the quiet of the ferry that Maxon was as laid back as she was. "I would have turned back if he'd been the sort of man to get uptight when we broke down," she says. "And we did break down an awful lot." By the time they reached France, word had also gone round that a woman had joined the rally on impulse and Holdcroft was flooded with offers of clean knickers and woolly jumpers. News had even reached California, where friends had rung up Maxon's wife and demanded to know if she was aware that her husband was cavorting around Europe with a mystery blonde. "She was amused rather than alarmed," says Holdcroft.Early on Tuesday morning, the car set off in the direction of the Alps. Outside Dijon, it started to slip behind the rest of the rally. Maxon and Holdcroft, caught up in the excitement of their own story, determined to catch up. Freezing, they drove the open topped car through the night, but were halted near the Italian border when they crashed into a Fiat. Holdcroft's limited knowledge of motor vehicles began to show. "It took off the rear mud guard thing. It was the first accident Terry had had in his life, and he was very shaken. But when we'd got it sorted, he said, 'Hmm, we have a glamour wound now!' I thought that was a fantastic attitude."That night they pulled up at a cafe in the Italian Alps, where Terry handed out expensive cigars in return for help pushing the car. Holdcroft, meanwhile, was learning some new negotiating skills. "I was trying to get hold of a flatbed truck to carry us to the next stage. There was a garage that couldn't give one out until eight in the morning, so I got hold of the rally office to ask what I should do. Terry was ready to get his whisky glasses out and camp down for the night, but we needed to catch up. The rally office suggested I offer them extra money. I had never tried to bribe anyone before, and when I did, they were deeply offended. It was a disaster. 'This is a very good man,' they kept saying, 'He cannot do it because he cannot do it. More money will not make it better.' "On the third day, Maxon and Holdcroft faced a new danger: hairpin bends. The wheels on the Rolls Royce are made of wood, with narrow tyres. With the lights on, the car wouldn't run. They made a decision to divert from the official rally route over the mountains for a well-lit motorway, where something wonderful hap pened. As they struggled along, modern cars started escorting them, lights flashing, before and aft, waving and cheering them on from stage to stage. "People were so kind and lovely. That was the best thing about it."They were heady with fatigue and excitement. At one stage, says Holdcroft, they drove past a gathering of "tiny, toothless Italian women" dressed in black at the roadside. "Do you know who this is?" Maxon yelled at them as they passed. "This is the inspiration to all womankind!"Somewhere in the middle of Greece, her phone rang. "It was one of my customers, demanding to know why I wasn't at her house, doing her blow-dry."By the time they reached Thessaloniki the car was on its last legs and Holdcroft was becoming concerned that her son would be exposed to too much media attention. On Saturday she decided to fly home. Maxon pulled out of the race shortly afterwards because of irreparable mechanical failure. "I never intended to go all the way round the world," she says. "But I'd have liked to go a bit further. Hairdressing seems -" she pauses, "oh, maybe I shouldn't say, but it seems somehow small by comparison."Her reception in Bexhill has been loud and enthusiastic, except for a curt note from tutors reminding her that, when she has finished capering about the world, she has exams to concentrate on. Friends, meanwhile, have urged her to return to the rally if she wants to. But she doesn't. She has had her moment.
Even minus the PR bumf, most launches offer too much slack and more than enough time to drive. You end up all numb and mesmerised by the soft-eject cupholders; it's not proper work. So it made good sense for Vauxhall to launch two new models at the same time. The Astra Coupe and Agila are, respectively, Luton's effective replacement to the Calibra and an attempt at the minicar market.First, the Agila. There's something burlesque about this sort of top-heavy car; anyone who invests therein would have to have unshakeable self confidence. For me, the first person to shout "Oy, Noddy!" would have me weeping with shame. Yet if you judge the Agila strictly as what it hopes to be - a jaunty little runabout with lots of room shoehorned into an upright, boxy frame - and it's not bad.The car is solidly built and has a pleasant, clunky quality. It's only when you test the guff about "large-car specification in a small-car package" that it wobbles. The Mini was genius because it never pretended to be anything more than a humble dashabout; the Agila is yet another "less-is-more" sleight of hand. On the motorway its diminutive frame shrinks and trembles in the wake of surly lorries.Back in town it regains its composure. Despite the roofline and the lofty seats, the car is surefooted and more inclined to squat on a sharp bend than veer through it. Inside, you'll find plenty of space for four and a fair bit of boot space. Ahead of your   toes, you get one of two engine options - a struggling 1.0 and a much perkier 1.2. The latter, when driven hard, is competent, but a strange, gravely drone feeds up from somewhere under the ashtray as the revs get higher. Equipment includes airbag, electric mirrors, radio cassette, power steering and immobiliser. Not bad for the price, kicking off at around &#163;7,000.The Astra Coupe, despite being billed as a car to take up the Calibra story, is a sore disappointment. If the car is an exercise in preaching to the converted, the Coupe will score a direct hit on the Gareth   Cheeseman market. It could have been like the Calibra - a stunning new shape, a bit of road-going, affordable porn. But it looks horribly respectable. It's not a bad drive - sturdy and competent - but for a 2.2 it feels dull. Under a firm foot, it fails to deliver any excitement at any one point in the torque curve; as far as performance goes, I've had better moments in a Fiesta.Its key crime, however, is styling. The car is a Bertone project and is put together for Vauxhall in the stylist's Turin plant. That alone, if you know your motors, sounds impressive, but the fact only serves to reinforce the degree to which this is a missed opportunity. Where coupe variants of the Peugeot 406 and Renault Megane have struck out to look different, the Astra Coupe explores the fine line between coupe and saloon - and then parks squarely over it.Add an interior that groans with age-old familiarity and you have a car that slipstreams into the growing coupe field with all the fervour of a lame sheep.So if you're waiting for our friends in Luton to strike out with a tarmac-trembler you'd best wait until September, which brings the VX220 sports car. Then at least, Vauxhall might surprise us.
It was a half-heard fragment from an American radio news show. "And then," said a man who turned out to be speaking for the US Department of Health, "there's the non- scientific European situation to bear in mind." Turn up the volume. They were talking genetically modified foods. They were talking Food and Drug Administration clearances. So they were talking, along the way, about quivering panic across the pond: non-thinkers consumed by non-science.There is no seething debate about GM foods in the land of Erin Brockovich. What the FDA certifies, the nation grows and eats. You can't smoke in the restaurants where they serve genetically modified dishes of the day. You can't, in one Californian county, wear perfume or cologne. But otherwise the perceived appliance of science rules. Which brings us, inescapably, to Sir William Stewart and mobile phones.The British government's former chief medical officer (with high-level colleagues) has spent many months investigating the threat of the mobiles - everything from tumours to diarrhoea. But, try as he may, he can't find one. The "balance of evidence" shows "no adverse health effects" from the phones or their transmitter stations. No brain frying, no premature Alzheimer's: nothing. A scientific verdict which chimes precisely with World Health Organisation wisdom.End of argument? We should be so lucky. Learned committees are supposed to advocate learned measures and Sir William's does its duty, rolling out exclusion zones, national databases and - of course - more research programmes in the accustomed fashion. Whitehall, flourishing action plans, duly performs its ritual dance. The response to an inquiry finding no present danger is almost exactly what you would have expected if the verdict had been greatly more menacing.Even that draws no line under the affair. Stewart (a gravelled-voiced Scot with a touch of the Dr Finlays about him) says that if the threat he hasn't found does indeed exist then it might be worse for children - and therefore the widespread use of mobiles by kids should be discouraged by parents "making an informed choice". Would he buy a phone for his own grandchildren, aged two and four? No, he would not. Confusion reigns.The trouble, of course, comes where the worlds of science and non-science meet. There are plenty of reasons why parents should worry about the 4m or more mobiles in the hands of under-18s. Reasons like paying the bill - or social stunting. (I was sitting in a cafe the other day watching, with fascination, four boys and four girls round a table: the boys were talking football, the girls - sitting back - were sending text messages to each other on their mobiles). There is obvious danger when you drive with one hand and answer a phone with the other. Transmission masts can mean aesthetic blight. But you don't need science to tell you that. Commonsense will do.Here's another example of mission creep. We're alarmed about mobiles and health. We ask a team of eminent scientists to examine our fears. It finds them (insofar as science ever makes possible) to be groundless. Yet the process, both human and political, doesn't stop there. We can't take "no evident risk" for an answer. We always want more; and thus science itself turns into non-science, and there is no rational reassurance.That is a very unsteady state to find yourself in. A land of mad cows and Frankenstein foods where hysteria rules and paranoia always lurks in the undergrowth: a land where nothing and nobody, no matter how expert, can be trusted. Thus is the shambles of BSE visited on genetic modification in terms of national angst, sealed in futility behind porous borders.Pseudo-science, moreover, has a nasty habit of reaching into every walk of life and infecting every debate. Take (from the adjacent moral, rather than physical, pot of the moment) televised sex. There is a lot of it about. Even souls as hardy as Jonathan Freedland are alarmed. It won't be long, I guess, before Chris Smith turns his attention from News at Ten to Soft-Porn at Eleven and television's watchdogs chunter into action. More national rot.Yet any suitably clinical look will reveal a rather different story. A fondness for eroticism - carved on the walls of Ancient Greece - is an enduring part of the human psyche. A market for it exists, and has always existed, everywhere in the world. In America, that market currently accounts for around $4bn a year. On television, some countries where cable is ubiquitous limit it to defined, easily accessible channels. Others - like France - let national channels carry prescribed doses of the hard stuff.Britain's main regular outlet - Mr Kelvin Mackenzie's L!ve TV - went belly-up months ago. Not enough viewers or cash. But that left a footloose audience roaming the airwaves. Channel 5 has picked up a bit of it. Channel 4 has followed suit. What was spread thick in one area a couple of years ago is now spread more thinly across several. It will continue to be so until (a) a new or existing channel corners the porn market more determinedly or (b) until the market for tired documentaries about tired strippers wanes.Put a team of media analysts and social scientists together and they would soon calm your fears. They would create a cool climate of contextualisation. But we seem to have lost the ability to summon such coolness or such trust. Tony Blair may have brought back royal commissions after a long absence; he hasn't managed to recreate an audience of a mind to listen to them.Back to the mobile arena, where facts go even further. Do mobiles heat the brain? Yes, by one tenth as much as a spell of sunbathing. Drinking a cup of coffee or walking the dog would be just as perilous. You can compute the danger of dying in a road accident over a period of 70 years at far less than one in a hundred, but the risks here are too infinitesimal to be worth computing. There are risks; there are always risks. Living is a risky business which ends in death. Mankind is prey to sudden awful viruses, and vigilance is always necessary. Smoking does damage your health. Pesticides can poison the water.But living is also a matter for reasonable inquiry, reasonable doubt and reasonable conclusions. When we call in the experts, we should expect no more than the best tools for risk assessment. Sir William Stewart gives us those tools. It would have been better if he'd stopped there, in brevity and prudent clarity. There's never (as the lofty guy from the US Health Department might say) been a better moment to start redrawing the lines between what science can do for us and what it can't. When there is nothing sensible to be done, it's best not to do it.peter.preston@guardian.co.uk
Walt Disney has stepped up its attack on the proposed merger between Time Warner and America Online by calling for regulators to impose "meaningful and enforcable" restrictions on the deal.In a sign of its increasingly combative approach over the past two weeks, the media and entertainment corporation has urged the federal communications commission to set tough conditions before giving the deal the go-ahead.A spokesman for the California-based company said: "Disney feels that the commission should be aware of the imminent risk to competition and consumers in the event that this merger is agreed without strong and enforcable safeguards to protect unaffiliated content and other internet service providers."A Disney executive earlier this week likened Time Warner and AOL to Microsoft for its potential to abuse a dominant monopoly position. The statement followed Disney's decision to pull its ABC channel from Time Warner's cable operations.The argument hinges on the strength of a combined AOL Time Warner in the high-speed market for home entertainment and services expected to dominate the future growth of the internet."The merged company will essentially control the broadband pipeline into millions of homes," said the spokesman.AOL and Time Warner both hit back at the complaints yesterday.A spokesman for Time Warner, which owns several magazines and television channels as well as one of America's largest cable networks, said: "Our commitment to open access content and diversity could not be stronger."The FCC and federal trade commission reviewing the merger, valued at an inital $350bn, and are expected to decide whether or not to let it go ahead by this autumn.
&#149;Going mobileAn &#163;8m purchase by Goldman Sachs Capital Partners of a 17% stake in Buckinghamshire-based Wireless Information Network values the unquoted company at &#163;47m. It cements the first funding round at WIN, which provides services to pagers and mobile phones giving access to news, sports and weather reports.&#149;OffshoreInternet investment fund JAB Holdings plans a British public listing, but to be based in Guernsey to enjoy offshore tax advantages.It said it had raised &#163;10m, just under a quarter of this through a placing of 44.8m shares on the Aim market, due to start trading on May 19.
This new fortnightly column is an experiment that may not last a week. What's more, its success or failure will owe a lot to you, and your problems. Ideally they will be general enough to interest other readers, and simple enough for answers to be short.The reality, alas, may well be different. Many computer problems boil down to interactions of hardware and software that are so obscure that they've sometimes been blamed on the phases of the moon.The number of possible combinations of hardware and software is so vast that they're bound to throw up problems that have never been seen before... and may never be seen again.Since it would take forever to eliminate all possibilities, we often take what we hope will be the easy way out: reinstall the application that's causing us grief, reinstall the software drivers for the malfunctioning hardware, reinstall Microsoft Windows. It doesn't always work, but it doesn't take very long, so it's usually worth a go.I'll try to offer more help than that here, but I don't have a hope if you don't provide basic information about your system. With Windows applications, the name and version number usually found in the Help| About box is a good start.Unreadable attachmentI have Word 7 for Windows 95. Much of the time email attachments come through in a straightforward manner, but sometimes the message I get when I try either to view or save an attachment is "Word cannot start the converter Doswrd32.cnv". Can you give me any advice?Naomi Connellynaomi.connelly@virgin.netJack:Microsoft Word probably can't start the converter - that is, run Doswrd32.cnv - because it isn't there. (Try looking for it using Start | Find Files or Folders.) That particular file is used to load files created with Microsoft Word for DOS versions 3.x to 6.0, so you could ask the person using that to send you plain text or use a different file format instead: Rich Text Format (.rtf) would be a good choice. Alternatively you could install the converter yourself, either from the Microsoft Office Converter Pack (run Setup.exe from the \PFiles\ORKTools\ToolBox\Tools\OCP\ folder on the Office 2000 Resource Kit CD-rom) or by downloading it from the Microsoft website atwww.microsoft.com/office/ork/2000/appndx/toolbox.htmAlthough Microsoft is widely criticised because not all its programs will load all types of file, it does offer a great collection of converters atwww.microsoft.com/downloadsLine troubleWe have just up-graded our computer to a Hewlett-Packard Pavilion 8650. The PC we had before had a 33Kbps modem and connected at 31Kbps. However, despite having an 56Kbps modem, the new machine only connects at 26400 to 28800Kbps. We also have two phone lines at home, one for voice mail and the other for fax/internet use. Before, we had one line for both purposes, with no problems. Could you tell me what I   should be doing to try and "up" the modem speed of the new machine?Peter RobinsonRobinson@bosinternet.comJack:It sounds as though BT has provided two lines by splitting the one you already had, using a Digital to Analogue Conversion System (DACS). This works fine for voice calls but, having only half the capacity, will give only half the data throughput. Beg BT on bended knee and you might get a real extra line, but I wouldn't bet on it.Your options are to get a second line from another supplier if possible, such as a cable company, or pay BT a lot more money for its ISDN voice and data service, Home Highway.Wake up callAbout once a week of heavy usage this PC won't wake up from stand-by. I have to use reset to boot it. Any thoughts on how this might be corrected short of reinstalling Windows 98?Denis Postledenis@postle.netJack:I had a similar problem with Advanced Power Management and "solved" it by using Start | Settings | Control Panel | Power Management to disable the feature altogether. You could try removing your screen saver, if any, and also see if there are more recent drivers for your graphics card and monitor, before re-installing Windows. However, you may be interested to hear that you can restart Windows 98 correctly even if there's no image on the screen. Simply press Ctrl + Esc to pop up the Start menu, press U to Shut Down Windows, press R for Restart and hit Enter. Do it fast enough and everyone will think you're a geek.
The real meat of today's report on the safety of mobile phones is contained in a 66-page section in the middle headed "scientific evidence."The investigators have spent months trawling through mounds of existing literature on the topic - scientific research on everything from birth rates of mice kept near a forest of radio transmitters in Greece to the effects of radio waves on the Polish army.For anyone seeking a clear answer to the question "Are mobiles dangerous?" their conclusions are disappointingly vague. Time and time again the phrases "little evidence", "contradictory findings" and "no persuasive evidence" crop up.None of this means that mobiles are unequivocally safe. Perhaps the most telling  recommendations of the report are the urgings that more research should be done - for instance, a study of people who have been using mobiles continuously since their early, clunky days in the 1980s.Scientists are simply not yet ready to give mobiles a clean bill of health. They do not want to replicate the devastating scientific and political fallout from the BSE crisis, when another scientific panel, the Southwood Committee, concluded that there was no risk to the public. So today's report, while generally saying that mobiles are valuable tools and OK to use, is hedged about with doubt and caution.The nub of the doubt is that the radio waves produced by mobiles are not powerful enough to produce what is called a significant "thermal effect" in the human brain - in other words, they heat brain cells by a fraction of a degree, far less than their natural temperature variation in the course of an ordinary day.But the nagging question remains whether radio waves, in a manner as yet unknown, can generate harmful changes in brain cells without heating them.One experiment suggests they can. Tests on a primitive creature called a nematode worm show that radio waves can cause certain genes to be "switched on", although these can generally only be switched on by stress.If radio waves can do that, what more could they do? scientists wonder. Hence the call for more research, and the advice to warn the children to ease off on mobile yakking.In the long term, today's report is likely to have an impact on the risk versus usefulness debate about mobiles similar to that of past warnings about sunshine or coffee: a reminder that moderation is all, and that over-use of a pleasant or useful thing may be risky.The report does nothing to demonise the mobile as a powerful new threat to public health - except in one distinct area, that of using a mobile while driving."There is strong experimental evidence that engaging in a mobile phone conversation impairs drivers' ability to react to potentially hazardous road situations," it says. "The impairment appears to be greater than that associated with merely listening to a radio  and is unaffected by mode of phone use, handheld or hands-free."
Mobile phone emissions do not adversely affect the health of the general population - but children may face greater risks, according to a long-awaited report published today. It calls for a "precautionary approach" until more research is done.According to the government-funded report by Tayside university researchers, children are believed to be more susceptible because their skulls are thinner, allowing their brains to absorb more radiation."There is now scientific evidence which suggests that there may be biological effects occurring below &#91;UK&#93; guidelines," the report says. "In the light of these findings, the group recommends a precautionary approach to the use of mobile phone technology until more detailed and scientifically robust information on any health effects becomes available."Expressing concern for the effects on children, it says: "The widespread use of mobile phones by children for non-essential calls should be discouraged." It also calls on mobile phone companies not to aim their advertising at children.The report acknowledges that emissions from mobile phones may cause subtle biological changes in some cases. But the research scientists, led by Sir William Stewart, stressed that emissions do not necessarily cause illness."This is a new technology and we are recommending  that a precautionary approach be adopted until more information becomes available," Sir William said. He said he would continue to use his mobile phone - but would not recommend that his young grandchildren do so.About one in four of Britain's 24m users of mobile phones is under 18, and more are expected to be signed up when the new generation of phones allow email and internet access, appealing to the younger end of the market.Last month the Consumers' Association published research which showed hands-free kits - promoted as a way of reducing microwave interference on the brain - could actually amplify the energy and channel it directly into the user's head - a finding that compounded confusion on the subject.David Hart of the National Association of Headteachers welcomed Sir William's report, and said he was interested to see what the government would say on the issue. "Many schools have banned the use of mobile phones, principally because they are an unwarranted nuisance and interfere with lessons and other school activities," he said. "But if it is now being suggested that they are harmful to the health of children then that will strengthen the schools' case for banning them altogether." Mr Hart said the numbers of children using mobile phones had "exploded out of all recognition in the last couple of years or so".But Michael Repacholi, a World Health Organisation expert who helped draw up the report, insisted that it was safe for children to use mobile phones. Dr Repacholi said his own children used mobile phones. He said: "This report will raise questions in the minds of parents about is it safe, and at the moment we say 'yes it is', because it complies with the international standards and we've got other things that are precautionary, so targeting children may be going overboard."The 10-month inquiry took evidence from experts across the country and its panel included experts in physics, telecommunications, engineering, and neuroscience. It was commissioned in response to fears that mobile use could be linked to memory loss, and even Alzheimer's disease. The latest contribution is unlikely to end the debate on the safety of mobile phones, and acknowledges that there is little scientific work on their safety because the technology is so new.
You can choose your friends, the saying goes, but you can't choose your relatives. That was before public records went online and you could put your name into a search engine and call up whole pages of distant cousins, planning a holiday around the better-located of them. Genealogy has always been popular with bearded men who enjoy reading charts. But the transference of the social security index on to the web has seen a more general rise in enthusiasm for tracing ancestors who fought in the civil war or went down with the Titanic, preferably with a descendant in Bali.Most family historians are compelled by two things: one, to construct a narrative for themselves that is more interesting than the one they've got; two, to identify in the family tree a strain of talent they might claim heir to, if only at molecular level."I had a client who was convinced she was descended from Johann Sebastian Bach," says Eric Probert, genealogical consultant and computer editor of Family Tree magazine. "But I traced her records back and she came from a family of Backs in the Midlands. She wouldn't accept it, though. She died still believing she was related to Bach."Her suspension of disbelief is in keeping with the slightly fantastical nature of the pur suit. Several years ago, I typed my mum's maiden name - De Kiewiet - into a US search engine. It returned one name, Mark De Kiewiet, with an email address in Oregon. We calculated that our grand-parents had been first cousins and he sent me a family tree going back eight generations. Then, one night, I wobbled in from the pub to a ringing phone and there he was, calling from the US, threatening to drop by on a forthcoming trip to London. I recoiled. Mark only existed for me as a repository for the faith that I was connected to something distant and exotic. I didn't want him on my doorstep acting like a mortal or, more probably, a nutter. My mum was exasperated. We have enough weird relatives, she said, without digging up more.Tracing dead ancestors doesn't present this problem, but it does come from the same slightly desperate drive to retrieve for oneself a secret history, a refuge from the fear of being ordinary. It is a motivation well known to the makers of family tree web sites and CD-Rom packages. The underlying sell is: bad day   at work? Raise your chin, soldier, for you are descended from the Warrior King of Bohemia and his third wife, Ethel (you and everyone else who cares to look).If you're not too worried about the facts, it's an easy trick to pull off. You go to a web site such aswww.familysearch.org. With access to 600m names, it's one of the biggest genealogy sites in Britain and run, like most of them, by the Mormon Church. (The Mormons are the chief distributors of genealogical data, since it's their aim to find Mormon ancestors and rebaptise them into the church.) Anyway, you go to the site, enter a surname, and with any luck a whole raft of spicy ancestors will pop up.Within an hour of logging onto the Family Search website, I have found a possible branch of my dad's family in Czechoslovakia (a marriage certificate exists for Dorothy Brockes and Johan Lebeda in Litomysl, 1723), a lead on the maternal grandmother front (a christening record for a Michiel Doubel, Cape of Good Hope, 1869) and - yes! - a celebrity. I am related to none other than radical theorist and social revolutionary, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, a fact established by feeding each new surname back into the search engine. Grandma Doubel's mother was (possibly) Rosa Erasmus, whose mother was Rosa Rossouw,   whose alternative spelling was Rousseau. Bingo.This is the kind of blind, acquisitive research that infuriates professional genealogists. "You've got to work back from yourself, stage by stage," says Christine Morris, who has traced her own family back to the 16th century. "You can't just appropriate a name you find in the middle of America and assume you are related to them.""The internet has made it easier," says Eric Probert. "But you always need to go back to the original source - the parish register, for example - because there may be mistakes in the translation." Probert has traced his own roots back to an 18th-century stone mason in Herefordshire - William Probert - where he has been stuck for 15 years. "I can't find his baptism or death certificate," he sighs."A lot of people don't take up genealogy until they retire," says Michael Armstrong, who founded Family Tree magazine in 1985 and has seen it grow to a circulation of 42,000. In a recent poll of 500 of its subscribers, the majority were found to be in the 50-59 age group. Only six were under the age of 29, and while nearly 300 respondents had a computer, only eight had ever found a family connection via the internet.The new generation of family historians differs considerably in their methods and motivations from their   older counterparts. "A lot of people get into genealogy now, not through their interest in family history, but through their interest in computers," says Armstrong. "They are a different type of people."In other words, they are the dilettantes whose first resource is the free, online databases that stop 100 years short of the present day and are useless unless you have done some primary research to cover the gap. For this, the dedicated computer user can turn to more comprehensive packages such as the Genera  tions Family Tree Grande Suite, a set of 15 CD-Roms boasting access to more than a billion names. It's linked to thewww.ancestory.comwebsite and is heavily tailored for the American market (US states are listed separately, while Europe appears as a conglomerate).Its big selling point is its databases, including Civil War muster rolls for five million soldiers, national archives for both world wars and the Titanic passenger list, an indication that there is nothing a user likes better than to imagine himself at the   scene of a disaster, or at least, its film version.The problem with using a package like this as a first resource is that unless you are lucky with your surname you'll fall into one of two camps. De Kiewiet returns no names; Heaney, my paternal grandmother's name, returns 1,115. At several turns, the program suggests I might like to buy the 1870 Maryland census for $295, or the International Directory of Brockes in Salt Lake City, which at $39.99 is a series of maps and charts locating everyone of that surname in the entire   world and strikes me as a bit creepy. The other service is the virtual photo album, where you can turn all your findings into an Ancestry World Tree, with pop-up boxes, a mottled background and the swirly typefaces that characterise the set.A more sensible first stop is something like the World Family Tree, a resource of 143,000 privately researched histories and 98 million names. That allows you, before embarking on your search, to ensure that you're not going over the same ground an unknown cousin in Ontario spent five years on. The average family tree contains 600 names and although you can't download the results without paying &#163;10, it does mean you can find out if you're listed before buying the &#163;60 CD-Rom.This is known as 'shareware' software, a program that allows you to download a free version before you commit to buying. It's what Wayne Younge relied on to trace his family tree back seven generations. Two years ago, Younge, a lecturer at City University in London, took a trip to Barbados, where his parents were from, and started researching his family tree. His first resource was human - talking to as many old people as possible. His next was paper - going to the archives and trying to consolidate what he had been told. It was only after this that   Younge turned to the web."I posted a message on the West Indian newsgroups, asking if anyone had information on a list of surnames," he says. Younge downloaded two free applications - fromwww.brotherskeeper.comandwww.gendex.com- which allowed him to save his findings in a clickable family tree. Thus armed, he went to FamilySearch.org and was able to eliminate the dozens of Younges who bore no relation to him."On sites such as Family Search, most of the information is at least 100 years old and to get back that far, the best sources of information are archives or family members. Where the internet makes a huge difference is in sharing information. Newsgroups allow one to share information with people who are researching certain surnames, and/or geographical locations."There are books available from the Society of Genealogists, with Ladybird-type titles such as My Ancestors Came with the Conqueror and my Ancestor was a Merchant Seaman.And if you get tired of dead relatives, there is always that international directory of the living, the white pages. My very living cousin Mark did come and visit. He turned out to be extremely nice, with an authentic stamp of history in the form of a bump in his nose - just like me, my mum, and Rousseau.Online archives&lt;A HREF="http://www.familysearch.org"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.familysearch.orgThe biggest UK site, with a searchable database of 600 million names.&lt;A HREF="http://www.ancestory.com"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.ancestory.comHeavily tailored for the American market, but with a useful archive of names, addresses and telephone numbers of living relatives.&lt;A HREF="http://www.bannerblue.com"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.bannerblue.comThe home of Family Tree Maker, this is more of a stepping stone to other resources and a shop window for family tree software.&lt;A HREF="http://www.genealogy.com"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.genealogy.com470 million names, but culled from existing family trees on the web, rather than primary   sources like birth, deaths and marriage certificates.Family tree softwareGED2HTMLwww.gendex.com/A free download allowing you to produce HTML pages and create a sorted, hierarchical index with a hypertext link to each person in the family tree.Brother's Keeperhttp://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/Brothers_ KeeperA shareware package allowing you to organise your family history in charts.Generations Family Tree Grande Suite15 CD boxed set with searchable databases and software to arrange your findings. (for windows 95/98). Boasts 1.5bn names for &#163;49.99Other resourceswww.cyndislist.com/genukCyndi's List links to family tree sites all over the world.www.deja.com/usenetA good introduction to newsgroups and message boards.www.theultimates.comThe ultimate directory of White Pages.&lt;A HREF="http://www.familytreemaker.com/wftonline/"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.familytreemaker.com/wftonlineThe World Family Tree, 143,000 privately researched family trees at your disposal.
Airtours yesterday launched itself into the internet travel wars and warned newcomer rivals such as Lastminute.com that their days could be numbered.The company said it would to use its &#163;100m e-commerce offensive to prevent the new breed of virtual travel agents, including groups such as e-bookers and Expedia, from making a significant impact.Chairman David Crossland said: "We are not in the business of helping new entrants trying to establish their business on the back of our investment."As far as we are concerned, we are not a supplier to Lastminute.com and the like who cannot offer us anything in return."He said the group had already established links with the major tour operators and received a commission for selling a rival's holiday via its network of shops. New entrants, however, offered little in the way of compensation, he said.Mr Crossland said that while the online holiday firms were technologically advanced, Airtours' support structure was superior. "In terms of back office they are 10 years behind us and the major operators," he said.He suggested that the new internet companies were profiting from the investment in aircraft and resorts made by the traditional bricks and mortar firms.Airtours' plans centre on Mytravelco which will offer holidays from Airtours and other tour operators and airlines including package deals, cruises, car hire and modular travel, the company said.Access to the site will be via the internet, new generation mobile phones, digital television, in-flight and on-board entertainment systems, in-room hotel systems and through all Airtours retail shops and hypermarkets.Mytravelco's current internet site is being developed and upgraded. Technology partners include BT, BroadVision, MediaBridge, Oracle and Sun Microsystems.The company said it is expanding Late Escapes bargain and last minute offers, currently available via Teletext, to include the world's largest travel leisure travel auction site,www.lateescapes.com.Late Escapes will be re-launched in June 2000.It is also planning a virtual low cost airline named flycheap.com, to be launched by the end of 2000, created by pooling the seat-only sales of Airtours' European airlines: Airtours International, Premiair and Fly FTi.
Imagine you lived in a primitive island community. One day a bright spark - let's call him Fred - offers to carry messages between islanders, a service that rapidly becomes very popular. Then he has another good idea: he clears one side of a big tree and encourages people to carve messages on it.Who should be held responsible if one islander defames another, or wrongly accuses him of a heinous crime? Simple, surely: whoever wrote the message. At any rate, not Fred. But what if Fred begins removing messages he does not like from his tree? And what if it becomes impossible to track down the authors of specific messages?Judges and lawmakers around the world are currently grappling with similar questions as they struggle to frame a new set of rules for   another primitive community. Last week's ruling by the US supreme court that an internet service provider (ISP) could not be held liable for statements made by one of its subscribers highlighted how far we are from agreeing about how the laws of the old, unwired world should be applied to the wild reaches of cyberspace.In the American case a New York lawyer had sued the net company Prodigy after an imposter sent obscene and threatening messages purporting to come from his 15-year-old son, Alexander Lunney. Messages had been sent to an individual and a bulletin board.The case was thrown out by New York state's highest court in a ruling (the one upheld by the supreme court) that smacked of common sense. "Email is the day's evolutionary hybrid of tradi tional telephone line communications and regular postal service mail," observed Judge Rosenblatt. "In this respect, an ISP, like a telephone company, is merely a conduit."Rosenblatt conceded that the status of bulletin boards was trickier, but ruled nevertheless that Prodigy could not be considered to be the publisher of the bulletin board because it did not edit the vast majority of postings.On the face of it the Lunney decision appears diametrically opposed to what passes for case law on this side of the Atlantic. In the only ruling on the subject to date, Mr Justice Morland decided that the internet company Demon was liable for defamatory comments posted about the physicist Laurence Godfrey because it acted as publisher.The decision wasn't quite as draconian as it sounds: the judge ruled that Demon be came a publisher only after Godfrey complained about the postings on a newsgroup. Until then it could claim it did not know the content of the material it was disseminating and could not therefore be held responsible.Fair enough? Perhaps, until you consider what happened next. According to lawyers in the field, service providers are now routinely shutting down sites as soon as they receive a complaint. "They say they just can't take the risk," one told me. ISPs were reluctant for the extent of their self-censorship to be known, she said, for fear it would trigger more complaints.If all this sounds messy, consider that some of the trickier questions haven't even been addressed by a court yet. What, for instance, if someone posts a defamatory message on a bulletin board maintained by a pub lisher like the Guardian? Will they be considered publishers of all messages on the boards? If they were, few would take the risk of hosting discussion areas at all and a vibrant, democratic area of the internet would be snuffed out.A lot of nonsense is talked about freedom of speech on the net. Is there any philosophical reason why people should be allowed to say things on the net that they can't say in the real world? Of   course not. But there are practical reasons why they can and will continue to.Quite simply the net cannot be policed the way the real world is. Remember what happened during the McLibel case: while lawyers fenced in the High Court, Ronald McDonald's foes made sure every last allegation was available from several websites around the world. When the company attempted to shut down one site, its online detractors promised that at least two more would carry the material. In the face of this hydra-like threat, a corporate giant was forced to retreat.Those of us who admire the American approach must also be comfortable with the idea that ISPs should be compelled to finger alleged defamers where possible. But the nature of the medium means that it will always be   easy to post information anonymously, or to do it from a country where you face little danger of legal action.Given the difficulty any victim of an online slur would have tracking down their accuser, it is hardly surprising that the aggrieved parties go for the messenger. And, however much you care about freedom of speech, it doesn't seem right that Alexander Lunney and Laurence Godfrey should have no way of protecting their reputations in cyberspace.Ultimately the courts will have to rethink the perpetual compromise between freedom of speech and the right to protect your reputation. Last week's US Supreme Court ruling suggest our courts have got it wrong. The good news is that it will be difficult for them to keep it that way.ian.katz@guardian.co.uk
There are now many internet cafes - constructed to keep male and female surfers apart - and around 30 commercial internet service providers, but the apparent range of choice belies the fact that all traffic passes through the King Abdulaziz City of Science and Technology in Riyadh, which is the country's only link to the web.For a wealthy country, Saudi Arabia may appear slow in adopting the internet but, in the words of Saleh Abdulrahman al-Adhel, the president of the KACST, the kingdom was waiting until the technology was available to ban access to "material that corrupts or that harms our Muslim values, tra dition, and culture".The Saudis are not alone in their fears. Other governments have tried to block internet access using cruder methods. The Chinese, for example, have tried to restrict access to modems.The director of the Saudi government's internet monitoring system, Dr Fahad al-Hoymany, says he believes his team are blocking all major pornographic sites.Saad Fagih, of the exiled opposition Movement for Islamic Reform in Arabia, testifies to the system's effectiveness and says millions of other websites have been blocked, including "all the hot political sites, such as Amnesty International".Computer industry sources say the Saudis' system works in two ways. First, it caches all approved web pages in a 500-gigabyte storage system. Users get these sites from the computer in Riyadh rather than the original source on the web.This means that frequently-used pages can be accessed   quickly without the system having to check their suitability each time.Requests for pages that are not stored in the cache are passed to the second stage of the system, supplied by a US-based company, Websense, which lists and can filter out 30 categories of potentially unsuitable sites.Experts concede that these filters are imperfect. One said: "You're always half a step behind because of the growth and change of the internet."Another said: "Filter systems are very difficult to administer and are likely to over-censor - for example cutting out information about breast cancer or Aids in order to exclude sex sites."Saudi opposition sources say that despite the filtering, government control of internet use is more fragile than it might appear. They say some cafes have illegal, direct satellite links to the internet, to which the authorities frequently turn a blind eye. Last   month a women's internet cafe near to Mecca University was closed down after a complaint that it was being used for "immoral purposes".Individuals who want unrestricted access to the internet can, if they wish, simply obtain a service provider in a neighbouring country.While some complain that the main purpose of the filtering system is to block politically sensitive material, Dr Hoymany argues that it is designed to give assurance to Saudis that when they log on to the internet their social or religious traditions will not be offended.This suggests to some observers that the Saudis' approach to the internet may be more subtle than it appears.For a time, it was unclear what attitude strict Muslims - not only in Saudi Arabia but throughout the Islamic world - would adopt towards the internet.Perhaps surprisingly, they have taken to it with great en thusiasm, deciding that it can be a useful vehicle for spreading their message.The economic future of Saudi Arabia may depend on making full use of the internet and a filtering system which reassures conservatives may be the key to exploiting the new technology.However, Saudi Arabia's slow start may prove costly. Unlike some of its neighbours it still has neither internet banking nor a legal framework for e-commerce.Andrew Puddephatt, executive director of Article 19, the campaign against censorship, argues that government monopoly of communications, and internet monitoring and filtering, is ultimately incompatible with e-commerce."There's no possibility of developing e-commerce unless they allow liberalisation and the growth of independent service providers," he says. "It's a choice between surrendering control and being shut off from the electronic future."
Freenet, a new piece of internet software which allows people to publish and exchange information anonymously, could become a potent weapon in the fight against internet censorship.The software - created by a 23-year-old Irish programmer, Ian Clarke, working at Edinburgh University - could easily circumvent the censorship activities of 20 governments, including Saudi Arabia and China.Mr Clarke and a band of fellow programmers follow the "open source" creed - which makes software freely available for people to adapt, rather than allowing it to be patented by big corporations.Freenet is a decentralised system of information exchange, which bypasses government-approved or commercially-driven ISPs. Encrypted information is spread across individual computers, or "nodes", of volunteers; this could confound both government censorship and hackers."What a country would need to do &#91;to stop it&#93; is ban encrypted data travelling across the internet," he said. "Now that would kill e-commerce in that country and make the internet useless. It strikes me as very unlikely that any country would risk crippling their economy. Information should be free."Corporate America has voiced its concern about the copyright implications of such ventures. Court cases are pending over the use of Napster, a system similar to Freenet, to exchange MP3 music files.
As love sickness goes, it was a near fatal case. Exactly seven days ago, many of us were waking up to some unexpected emails of admiration. Messages marked I LOVE YOU were flooding in to   millions of inboxes around the world, piquing the curiosity of users just enough for them to double-click on the enclosed attachment.One week later, and we know it was a virus: the world's most virulent to date. Combining some quite sophisticated programming with a similarly cunning appeal to the human psyche, it caused widespread damage to data and a massive loss of productivity.The small program,   containing coded instructions to both reproduce and perform tasks, was seemingly written in the Philippines. Once downloaded, it burrowed its way into your system, deleting jpeg (picture) files and hiding MP3 (music) files. Then it emailed copies of your passwords to a website in the Philippines.Then it fulfilled its need to reproduce, and sent offspring viruses to every email address in your Microsoft Outlook address book.   The only way to prevent its spread was to shut down email servers - the now essential tool of most businesses. The cost in lost work time began to add up.  Estimates vary on the   total, but they are all in the billions, from $2bn to   $10bn, and they are growing while the virus continues to do the rounds. An estimated 80% of companies worldwide were hit."We estimate $2.61bn of damage has been done," says Samir Bhavnani, a research analyst with Computer   Economics. "By Wednesday, the total can reach $10bn.   We see damages growing by up to $1.5bn a day until the virus is eradicated."Police in the Philippines made three arrests on Monday: the trio, including bank clerks Reomel Ramones and Irene de Guzman, were being questioned about the virus outbreak. Clues to the programmers' nationality were apparent early on. "The source code contained references to Manila and the Philippines," says Graham Cluley of Sophos Anti Virus. "The author even included his hacker's codename 'spyder'".Virus technologist Alex Shipp and his team at Message Labs claim to be the first in the world to capture the love bug. They intercepted an infected email at 12.14am on Thursday, direct from the Philippines. They quickly realised the ensuing epidemic would be huge.  "Just seeing how nasty it was, we thought it might be another Melissa," says Shipp, referring to the last major email-attached virus."Then someone checked how many of them we'd caught. Normally we get 300 viruses a day, from a sample two million emails. On the first day of Melissa we only got 200. On Thursday we got 13,000 of the love bug," he says.  It wasn't just the programming which made this virus ultra virulent. "Making people open the attachment (by using I LOVE YOU) was   simply an excellent piece of social engineering," he says."The programmer also stole lots of good ideas from lots of other viruses and put them all into one. There was also fairly good timing. Everybody had got over the last virus scare and had got back to their bad habits," concludes Shipp. Britain and Europe were hit disproportionately hard, he says, because of the difference in time zones between Europe and the US. The countries hit hardest depended on wherever the sun rose next," says Shipp."As soon as people woke   up there was a peak of viral activity, and that peak was in Europe - especially the UK - first.   "When it hit, it was 3.40am, New York time. We were able to ring them and say 'this virus is coming towards you in about four hours - get ready.'  "Nonetheless, there was very little time delay. It spread almost instantaneously over the globe, with 10 new strains quickly appearing."All of which paints a grim picture for an increasingly technology dependent world. Why are our computers so vulnerable? "There's a fight between PC functionality and security," says Cluley. "Microsoft could solve, say, the macro virus problem tomorrow - if it wanted. But it won't, for legitimate   commercial reasons. It's never going to sell its word processor on the basis that you can't do all kinds of cool things with macros. Security always loses out to functionality. That has been the   history of software."My three pieces of advice to any company or individual are: one, keep your anti-virus software up to date. Two, put a system on your email gateway to block dodgy attachments like the Visual Basic files we saw here. Lastly,   de-install Windows Host,   a program invaded by   the love bug," concludes   Cluley.   Consider yourselves warned.
School children in the  south London borough of Lambeth now have rather more than text books and jotters to carry in their schoolbags - there's an £800 laptop computer in there, too.  In a unique pilot project, 100 Psion Netbooks have been given to three schools within the Lambeth Action Zone in an effort to make learning more exciting for primary students who have no access to computers at home. The plan is to help develop the literacy and numeracy skills of nine to 10 year-olds - and maybe   even breed a new generation of IT-savvy schoolkids.Tim Coulson, Lambeth education action zone's   project director, is at pains to point out that these Netbooks are not meant to substitute pen and paper, or handicap writing skills. But, he says,   the machines will help build pupils' sentence construction skills, and homework might actually turn out to be a   pleasurable exercise after all."We hope they will want to work more than now," he says. "The literacy strategy is to load text and mathematical applications. Two specialist IT people are helping the teachers in these schools with this project."  The £60,000 project will be evaluated before Christmas by a team from Warwick University, but already   Coulson hopes to gain further sponsorships.  Psion's Netbook was picked for the trial not just because of its comparatively low cost and light weight: it's also rugged, able to withstand a drop of  1.5 metres. And Psion is quick to emphasise the machine's simple operating system and "on/off" functionality, which means there's no delay between turning the machine on and being able to use it. The Netbooks are loaded with a whole library   of software, including an encyclopedia, English and French dictionaries, Alice in Wonderland and Rudyard Kipling's Jungle Book.But for the time being, the young and proud owners of the Netbooks are too excited to think of anything beyond their artistic efforts. "I want to do science, maths and   English on these," says Tope, busy selecting a new figure for her drawing. Her friend Charlotte adds that they had typed out a story ("I don't remember which"), and found it better than writing. "The first time I was given this computer I was very excited. We can do all things on it," Saffron informs us, earnestly.  Their teacher Jo Mclarnon is evidently proud of the way her pupils have adapted to the computer. "They have only had two sessions and are doing so well. I personally do not think that computers will ever replace writing, it is just another tool of learning and can help in so many ways."
Laugh? I almost broke a ribMediEvil IISony PlayStation	£19.99 SCE CambridgeThird-person adventure game MediEvil didn't exactly break the mould, it sort of superficially vandalised it, with inane graffiti and a   judiciously placed piece of turf. Anyhow, its clever   puzzles and self-mocking humour managed to earn it 800,000 sales worldwide, which was apparently enough to activate the automatic-sequel machine.So now we welcome back Sir Dan Fortesque, the cowardly, one-eyed skeleton: the only computer game hero with waist measurements to beat Lara Croft's. Five   hundred years on from his last outing, he's been woken from his eternal slumber to avert a catastrophe in Victorian London. This time it's an industrialist called Lord Palethorn who's up to no good, and all our Dan's got to stop him is his detachable limbs, a friendly but exasperating ghost, a techno-wiz mad professor, a sexy mummified Egyptian princess, and an arsenal to rival the IRA's.OK, so it's a little harder than that. With its unusual control system and the almost immediate toughness of the baddies, you'll initially be using your memory card more than you use your own memory. What's more, it's not really worth attempting without an analog controller: after complaints about the original's dynamic camera, SCE Cambridge has placed the player in full control of the view. A noble idea, but when there are already two dozen commands to keep track of, it's a big ol' pain in the coccyx.For those familiar with the medieval MediEvil, the 19th-century MediEvil obeys all the laws of the sequel. It's still got its irreverent wit. The   levels are bigger. The graphics are better. New monsters. New weapons. New shmoo. The game's unique selling point is probably the alternative modes in which you can control Dan. Worried about what's round the next corner? Just rip off your head and your hand, stick one on top of the other and, hey presto, a mobile surveillance unit. You can also control the consequently headless Dan, and a mystery "Dan-kenstein" mode becomes available later in the game.For the uninitiated, MediEvil II a slightly less   po-faced Tomb Raider, only without a face. Intrigued? Thought not. (AB)May the sword be with youStar Wars Episode 1: Jedi Power BattlesSony PlayStation	£34.99 LucasArtsYet another Star Wars game, and this time it's a swashbuckler: the swords have been changed for light sabres and the sailing ships for spaceships, but the differences are largely   cosmetic.The plot is traditional, too. You choose one of five different Jedi characters   from Obi-Wan Kenobi to Adi Gallia, hack and slash your way through 10 sort-of-3D levels, and beat the boss at the end of each scenario. It's not an intellectual challenge, but the levels are probably big enough to keep you going until you need a hand   transplant.The enemy droids are amazingly unobservant and will stand around for ages waiting for you to dismember them. However, they do have blasters, which is a bit unfair if you only have a light sabre. Luckily, they are very bad shots, and you can bat their bullets back at them, baseball style. You can also "earn" your own thermite bombs, shields, restraining bolts and so on.   The best feature of the game is co-operative play: you and a mate against the Federation.   If you enjoyed the arcade action-adventure games of the late Sinclair Spectrum/  Commodore 64 era, you'll probably like this. What's more, it also has terrific   Star Wars music and better animations than the little stick-like figures familiar from the 80s - though not that much better. (JS)It's big but it's certainly not cleverSlave ZeroPC			           £34.99 InfogramesMiniaturisation is an   underused perspective in computer games. Only Micro Machines and its myriad sequels have really delved into realms of Honey, I Shrunk The Video Game. Slave Zero goes the other way with cities dwarfed by your character, the 60ft bi-pedal robot of the title.Imagine King Kong in Metropolis and you're part way there. And, of course, you're not the only big bot in town with numerous oversized adversaries blocking the way to freedom. Cue mindless blasting, excessive destruction and oodles of fun.Well, not really. Fiddly controls make steering Zero harder than you'd expect, while the camera is particularly unhelpful. Likewise,   the graphics are barely adequate, though the meaty explosions are worthy of praise. No, the real problem here is the questionable longevity of the game itself. Variety is distinctly lacking as you veer from city to boss baddie and back to the samey city level again. It's not long before the mindless stomping loses its appeal and your mind begins to wander.Unsurprisingly, Slave Zero has been ported to the Sega Dreamcast, where it seems better suited than the stuffier environs of the PC games market.   Ultimately, with so many top-notch games around, something so average doesn't seem worth bothering with. Still, if you fancy a quick blast then Slave Zero is willing and able to deliver. However, if you demand slightly more commitment from your gaming relationships then it's probably best to leave well alone. (GH)
Digital money is, for the moment, small potatoes. Consider that last year Visa, MasterCard, Amex, Discover and Diners carried charges of more than a trillion dollars in the US alone (on which they earned billions in fees). Yet the economic impact of everything in the digital money world, from DigiCash to Mondex, doesn't even show up on the spreadsheet.Yet digital money schemes continue to spring up and the subject continues to attract attraction. The net has a lot to do with this, since it is generating requirements for small transactions over networks and stimulating another cycle of evolution in the sector after the failure of early experiments such as First Virtual and BarclayCoin.Even the Clinton administration, in the person of deputy treasury secretary Stuart Eizenstat, has called for a new "standards-based mechanism" to handle retail payments on the net because of the cost and inflexibility of credit cards, the dominant payment method today.Why, given that digital money got off to such a poor start, is it back in the news again? A major difference between today's landscape and that facing the early   pioneers (ie, a couple of years ago) is that there is a growing recognition that the role of banks may be limited. When interest in digital money began to grow, it was assumed that the natural route to market for this technology would be through banks. Banks would license the money technologies - whatever they might be - and then carry on with  business as usual. It seems, however, that the replacement of notes and coins by new technology has been taken up more enthusiastically by non-banks.&#149;  In the Netherlands, Shell has begun to issue drivers with contactless smart cards in the form of key fobs. The driver pulls up at a pump, punches in his Pin code, fills up and drives off. The cost of the fuel is then deducted from his bank account.&#149; In Scandanavia, digital mobile phones are already used to pay for car parking and other small ticket items. For example, Stockholm has car parking areas that accept payment cards (where petrol company cards, not bank cards, dominate), electronic cash and mobile phones (expected to dominate the next phase of development).&#149; The Hong Kong mass transit smart card, Octopus, handles around seven million transactions per day through 9,000 readers throughout the territory. The scope of the system has already been extended beyond transit and the cards (soon there will be eight million of them) can be used in phone booths, drinks machines and snack bars.&#149; In the US, five McDonald's restaurants in Santa Ana have reached an agreement with the local   authorities to allow motorists to zip through their drive-through lanes and have the customers' Fastrak electronic toll transponders billed instead of using cash.&#149; On the internet, cash alternatives ranging reward-based schemes such as Beenz (which has just announced its move into the offline world with MasterCard), Flooz and Cybergold to alternative currencies such as e-gold are springing up and innovating at pace. The digitising of existing offline loyalty schemes is also of note: the 38m members of American Airlines' frequent-flier programme can now not only earn miles by buying on AOL, but spend miles there as well.Banks in Europe have, where they've done anything, concentrated their effort on the smart card. But even if my bank did send me an electronic purse (a smart card that can carry digital cash, like a Mondex card or the 50+ million Geldkartes in Germany), I wouldn't be able to use it because I don't have a   smart card reader on my Apple Macintosh. American Express solved this problem with its Blue smart card in the US: anyone who applied for one got a free smart card reader in the post.Why can't our banks do the same, and solve the problem of paying online for good?I was talking to somebody about this recently and their response - which was along the lines of "who wants digital money?" - surprised me. I do, for one.In fact, I want it every time I find myself rummaging around the house for 20p coins so that I can park at the train station: I'd happily use my mobile phone to pay if I could.I want it every time I'm trying to get some information that I really need but can't be bothered to subscribe to a web site: I'd happily send the OED 10p from my Mondex card for the odd occasion when I need to look something up. I want it every time I need to send my brother the &#163;10 that I borrowed from him down the pub: I'd happily use Paypal if it worked in the UK (it doesn't, yet).In short, don't be put off by digital money's (bank-led) bad start. It's going to happen, and it's going to make life easier for an awful lot of people.
Phone showThe UK may be gripped by 3rd generation mobile phone fever with the spotlight on wacky video phones and seemingly never-ending licence auctions. But forget about 3G phones until their launch in 2002. For, as delegates to the MobileExpo show held at Birmingham's NEC found out this week, there are plenty of innovative models due to go on sale a bit sooner.Pride of place on Samsung's stand went to the SGH-M100, which the company claims will be the first ever phone with a built-in MP3 player to go on sale in the UK. 
The model sports 32Mb of embedded memory which will deliver around half an hour of music. It goes on sale in June.Also coming in the next couple of months is Samsung's first Wap phone, the SGH-A110, and a high-end model laden with personal organiser style facilities called the SGH-A100.Ericsson will also soon be offering MP3 tunes via its mobile phones. At Mobilexpo it touted an MP3 add-on for several of its current models. Users won't have to worry about missing calls - when the phone rings the music automatically cuts out. The   player goes on sale in July.Among Ericsson's other major launches this summer is a rival for its heavyweight R250 PRO water, shock and dust resistant phone, tested in Online recently.The new model, the R310, is said to be as tough as its predecessor, yet is significantly smaller and boasts extra facilities like voice control and data/fax capabilities. Accompanying it is an outdoor adventure kit which features a thermometer, magnifying glass and a compass. Ericsson is also adding another Wap phone to its range in the A2618.Arguably one of the cutest mobile phones to reach the stores this summer is the DB600 Wap phone from NEC. In true Star Trek style the model flips open to reveal a large screen that NEC reckons is ideal for reproducing those mini internet pages. The model will go on sale later this summer priced at around &#163;150.Not to be outdone, Nokia showed three new products at MobileExpo. It boasts that its 6250 is the first shock, dust and water resistant phone to feature a built in Wap browser (for maybe checking football scores when you are skiing?).Also due soon is a conventional Wap phone, the 6210 and the 8890 Nokia's first model that is compatible with American GSM networks.  Another Wap debut came from   French company Sagem, which is bringing its Internet-friendly MW930 model to the UK in the next couple of weeks.Card battlesThe battle for supremacy in the high-speed, high storage memory card arena has shifted up a gear this week. Panasonic has announced Japanese launch dates for the first of its products that use an SD (Secure Digital) card - the main rival to Sony's already available Memory Stick.  Due in June is the SV-SD70, a personal audio player compatible with both MP3 and the emerging audio format AAC. It will be joined later in the summer by SD-compatible PCs and email machines.  Panasonic hopes SD, which it developed in collaboration with Toshiba and SanDisk, will become the standard storage system for solid-state audio players, digital cameras, mobile phones and portable data terminals.  Initial cards will be able to store 64Mb of information. However, the trio is confident that a 1 gigabyte card will be available by 2002.  Panasonic is expected to announce UK launch dates for SD products next week.
