"Sing, O goddess, the anger of Nick, son of William, that brought countless ills upon Ryse: Son Of Rome. Many a time did it send the new Xbox One controller down to the floor, and many a cup of tea did it yield while lengthy loading screens greeted the reviewer, so were the counsels of the Guardian Games Blog fulfilled from the day on which Ryse and great Nick first fell out with each other."&nbsp;Yes, I know the above is nicked from the Iliad and technically that's out of place because Homer was Greek and not Roman. But what the hell, I've been told so many times by Briton enemies that they were about to send me to Hades rather than Anoan that I think I can get away with it.&nbsp;Ryse is set in the ancient world, but its plot is more of a grab-bag of sword and sandals tropes. There are searing pitch battles in the streets of Rome and bloody confrontations in the wilds of Briton. There are gladiatorial skirmishes in the Coliseum and a siege battle in a crumbling town. There are sneering patricians, howling barbarians and at the centre of it all is a stoic Roman soldier fighting for the very soul of the eternal city. The logic the plot follows is barmy to say the least, but it's all pretty enjoyable.The fact that it comes packaged in some of the most beautiful visuals to ever grace a console certainly doesn't hurt. In fact, it's not overstating things to say that Ryse is about as great a graphics showcase for the Xbox One as Forza 5: Motorsport. Character models and fight animations are meticulously detailed and every environment in the game is achingly beautiful. The voice-acting and mo-cap performances are top notch and some of the set-pieces – including an attack on the beaches at Dover and an elaborate contest in the Coliseum – are suitably epic.Ryse's biggest problem is that that its combat fails to match the rest of the game's ambition. Players battle a series of repetitive enemies use a sword and shield as attacks and evading damage with a counter or a dodge-roll. If they manage to pull off a sustained attack on an enemy, a little symbol will appear above their head, and then the player can pull the right trigger. This allows them to deliver a brutal finishing attack using QTEs, which usually douses the screen with claret and sends the odd limb flying.This is all initially as fun as it sounds, but tedium quickly sets in once one realises that by the end of the third level, they've pretty much used every fight combo the game has to offer. The other problem with the combat is that it lacks any sense of rhythm or flow. Players can counter most attacks even if they're in mid-swing against an enemy. This lends the whole exercise a rather disjointed feel, which is amplified by the fact that, for most of the game, players will be fighting against the same parade of identikit barbarians yelling the same series of threats.Occasionally players will take a break from sword-fighting to man a turret, lead a troop formation or hurl spears at ranged enemies, but overall Ryse is really thin in the gameplay department. This also affects the multiplayer, although the fact that bouts take place in the Coliseum in matches where the dynamics, goals and even the environment shift from battle to battle, lends online mode a ramshackle charm. Perhaps the most disappointing aspect is the fact that Ryse contains a bunch of micro-transactions allowing players to unlock talent trees and cosmetic baubles with real-world cash. You don't have to hand over money as in-game grinding earns Valor (sic) Points, which do the same thing, but even so, this feels slightly cheeky.So Ryse is impossible to recommend without a few caveats. Its mechanics are thin, its micro-transactions are annoying and the plot in the campaign makes the story in Call Of Duty: Ghosts look like high art. But if you fancy thumping barbarians and you don't mind the lack of depth, Ryse is arguably the most beautiful hack 'n slash you can play on the Xbox One.
Automattic, the company which runs the popular WordPress.org blogging platform, has announced that it is suing the anti-gay campaign group Straight Pride UK for allegedly abusing copyright laws.In August,Straight Pride UK used a provision of US copyright law to make Automattic remove an interviewthe group had given with Oliver Hotham, a London-based student journalist. In doing so, Straight Pride UK claimed that the interview, which was given to Hotham in a document titled &quot;press release&quot;, was a private release.&quot;Straight Pride UK thought as he was a student that we would add fun to it, dress it up and make him feel like a reporter by adding &apos;press release&apos; to the document. This document also had a notice saying that it was not to be reproduced without consent,&quot; Peter Sidorove, the head of Straight Pride UK&apos;s sister organisation Straight Forward, told the Guardian from the group&apos;s Moscow headquarters at the time.Paul Sieminski, Automattic&apos;s general counsel, told the Guardian in August that the move was &quot;a case of abuse of the DMCA [digital millennium copyright act]&quot; and that the company didn&apos;t think that taking the blogpost down was &quot;the right result&quot;. On Thursday, he announced that the company will be filing a suit against Straight Pride UK for &quot;knowingly materially misrepresent[ing]&quot; a case of copyright infringement.&quot;These cases are both infuriating and increasingly common,&quot;he wrote in a blog post. &quot;While there are no legal consequences (like fines) under the DMCA for copyright abusers, there is a provision that allows victims of censorship (and their web hosts) to bring legal action against those who submit fraudulent DMCA notices. So today, we’ve joined with Oliver … to take a small strike back at DMCA abuse.&quot;We’ll also be actively involved, on behalf of our users, in trying to change the law – both through court cases and in Congress – to make sure that everyone has the right to share their voice on the internet without threat of censorship.&quot;Hotham, whose original interview revealed Straight Pride UK&apos;s admiration of Vladimir Putin &quot;for his stance and support of his country&apos;s traditional values&quot;, says he is &quot;extremely happy&quot; with Automattic&apos;s decision.&quot;They had this problem with the way the website functioned, in that they weren&apos;t adequately protected against these fraudulent notices. So it&apos;s great that they&apos;re making these moves, even if they&apos;re mostly symbolic right now, and are pushing for legislation in congress to stop people abusing the DMCA to silence young journalists like myself.&quot;Since the original incident, Straight Pride UK has erased its web presence.The full text of the company&apos;s case against Straight Pride UK is available online.
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (free) may mean (freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later today.This week: a new structure based on feedback from readers of previous posts. The non-game apps are listed first, followed by the games. Read on for this week&apos;s Android selection (and when you&apos;ve finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).APPSBear &amp; Hare (Free)Yes, them off the John Lewis Christmas advert. There&apos;s an official app for that: the story of the bear who&apos;d never seen Christmas until his big-eared friend hopped toArgosPoundlanda suitable retailer to buy him an alarm clock. The app sees DJ/presenter Lauren Laverne providing voice narration for the festive tale.Xbox One SmartGlass (Free)Getting an Xbox One this weekend? You&apos;ll be wanting Microsoft&apos;s official second-screen app, which debuted this week just ahead of the next-gen console&apos;s launch. You can use it to control the Xbox One, access media, browse the web on TV, and for games that support it, use it as a companion for extra gameplay features.Lift (Free)Promising &quot;daily motivation&quot;, this app wants to help you &quot;take regular steps toward healthy life change&quot;, whether that&apos;s giving up bad habits, getting fitter or developing new career skills. The idea being that you set your priorities and use the app to keep track of your progress. The fitness side in particular seems to be picking up a head of steam.Opera browser for Android (Free)Opera&apos;s web browser isn&apos;t new to Android, but its native tablet version is. The browser now plays nicer with big-screened Android devices, while offering Opera&apos;s traditional features of speed, less data-hogging surfing, and a speed-dial interface to get to your most-used sites.Binny&apos;s Advent Calendar 2013 (£0.59)It&apos;s not December yet, but expect a flood of rubbish advent calendar apps in the next week or so, just because it&apos;s that time of year. If you&apos;re looking for a good one, try this from Australian illustrator Binny Talib, who&apos;s hit on the welcome idea of actually putting some craft and love into an advent app. Aimed at kids, it has mini-games for the run-up to 25th December.SunDo (£2.70)SunDo is the latest app trying to help you organise your life: a to-do list-keeping app that uses images and animations (oh yes, and the sun) to organise your tasks and ensure you get things done – while sharing the details with colleagues and family members to keep them in the loop.I Love You Too - Ziggy Marley (£1.85)Ziggy Marley won a Grammy Award for his Family Time album of music for children. Now one of its songs has been turned into a storybook app for kids by developer Oceanhouse Media, which made its name digitising the entire Dr Seuss catalogue. Here, children can read and sing along, with narration from Ziggy himself.iStoryTime Storybook Library (Free)More stories for children, but lots of them. iStoryTime has a library of digital books, many based on familiar family films (including Madagascar, Ice Age and The Smurfs). Parents can choose to subscribe to get access to the entire catalogue for a flat monthly or annual fee – like a Netflix for digital picture-books.PhotoBook - in 2 minutes (Free)There&apos;s a lot more talk about photobooks this year, as companies try to entice smartphone owners into printing more of the photos stored on their phones. Developer Vukee&apos;s new app looks slick and easy to use, promising a quick way to create and order photobooks, then get them shipped all over the world.Supercell's Hay Day offers virtual farming action.GAMESHay Day (Free)Games developer Supercell has been making ludicrous amounts of money from its Clash of Clans and Hay Day games on iOS. Clash of Clans rampaged onto Android in autumn, and now Hay Day has joined it. It&apos;s a social farming game not a million miles away from FarmVille, but more fun and less grindy to play.Humble Mobile Bundle 3 (Up to You)If you love Android games, you should basically be stumping up for every Humble Mobile Bundle – not least because it benefits charity Child&apos;s Play. As ever, the third bundle lets you pay whatever you like for a collection of games: Epoch, Rymdkapsel, SpellTower and Swordigo in this case, which are all excellent. Pay more than the average price ($5.18 at the time of writing) and you get Ridiculous Fishing and Kingdom Rush thrown in. Brilliant value.Flick Kick Football Legends (Free)I was obsessed with the original Flick Kick Football game, and ended up banning myself from playing it on the tube due to the number of times I sailed past my stop. Now it&apos;s back as a freemium game, with a retro look and an emphasis on building up a team of players. Also, you&apos;re no longer just pinging shots at goal, but have to tackle and pass your way up the pitch.Avengers Alliance (Free)This game stars a selection of Marvel superheroes and villains, including Spider-Man, the X-Men, Dr Doom and Loki. It sees you building a team of your preferred characters, then battling it out with villains over 60 missions and hundreds of quests. Marvel says a multiplayer mode will be added in a forthcoming update, so get your practice in now.SoulCalibur (£4.14)Another past gaming obsession, this time from my Dreamcast days. SoulCalibur remains one of the best-looking beat &apos;em ups in its mobile incarnation, with a choice of arcade battle, time attack, survival and &quot;extra survival&quot; modes to test your fighting skills. Varied characters and spiffing visuals make it worth getting to grips with touchscreen controls.An Alien with a Magnet (Free)Platform-adventure An Alien with a Magnet was critically acclaimed on iOS, and while it may not be the most famous name this week, it&apos;s one of my favourite new Android games this year. It sees you trying to get the alien hero back to his planet through the use of magnets (yes!F***ing magnets!How do they work?). It&apos;s 45 levels of proper puzzling.MoviePop (Free)The name is a hint that MoviePop comes from the developers behind SongPop – the guess-the-music game that was something of a mobile craze last year. This does the same thing for films: you watch clips from movies and answer multiple-choice questions about them, playing against your friends asynchronously.Injustice: Gods Among Us (Free)More superheroes, this time from the DC Comics roster: Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman and more. The game is partly about collecting cards of the various characters, and partly about sending them into battles and levelling up their skills. Beefy graphics and plenty of depth make this one for the fans.Skee-Ball Arcade (Free)Skee-Ball may not be quite as well known here in the UK as in the US – our comparable pub games of choice would presumably be bar billiards or darts – but a new, official Android game may bring the game to more Brits&apos; attention. It gives the game a social spin as you play against friends and family, with power-ups (yes, in-app purchases) potentially giving you an advantage.Battlefield 4 Commander (Free)Not a standalone game, but a companion app for the Battlefield 4 console game, although you&apos;ll need a soldier ranked 10 or higher before you can use it. You don&apos;t play, but rather manage your team-mates from your Android device, with Voice-over-IP ensuring your barked commands get through. Note: there appear to be lots of people struggling to get the app running – hence lots of one-star reviews on Google Play – but hopefully any launch teething problems will be fixed quickly.Hunger Games: Panem Run (Free)Finally, just as a new Hunger Games film hoves into view, there&apos;s an official game taking the form of a Temple Run-style endless runner. Scoot through districts from the world of Hunger Games while collecting resources and testing your skills against friends.
While Ryse and Forza 5 and the other graphical heavyweight video games showboat their way across Xbox One's launch window, Zoo Tycoon opts for a different sort of horsepower. Here, down on the virtual zoo, the thrills are earthier: feed bananas to giraffes, hose down dusty rhinos, pull faces at chimpanzees, pick up faecal matter. They are also more civic: set the price of admission, plan an internet ad campaign, ensure the toilets are working. It's a back-of-the-box feature list that's unlikely to inspire many children into chimp-like squeals of delight.Nevertheless, Zoo Tycoon (an unnerving title that conjures images of battery farming lions, or sending grizzly bears off to work on a factory line to stitch running shoes) emerges as one of the strongest launch titles for Microsoft's latest console, its bright palette bringing a menagerie of lovingly rendered animals to life, even as its keen strategic heart pushes you towards profit and expansion.It's rhythms are straightforward: spend profits made from ticket sales on expanding and improving your zoo. This is done by creating new exhibits in the style of various types of habitat before helicoptering in animals, providing them with food, water, washing facilities and, finally, things to do. Profits are buffered by building shops, restaurants, food huts and sideshows, many of which you must keep well stocked. The happier your animals, and the more types of species that you house, the greater the draw of your zoo on the public.The game can be played from a bird's eye view, or, with a swift zoom, you can walk around the park on foot. From this latter viewpoint you are able to interact with many of the animals you bring into the park. The Xbox One's Kinect camera can be used painlessly in play to, for example, direct a hose to wash down animals, and will even zoom in on your face, as a young chimp presses his face to the virtual screen and copies your winks and smiles. The expertise of developer Frontier (the company headed by Elite creator David Braben) shines here: much of the impressive technology that fired 2010's Kinectimals and 2011's Disneyland Adventures has been built upon for the close-up animal interactions.In time you'll be profitable enough to hire staff who can carry out the basic zookeeper duties on your behalf, leaving you to focus fully on improving advertising, encouraging animals to mate and completing various timed tasks. These range from taking interesting photographs of specified species for local magazines, to improving the health and wellbeing of all animals in your zoo.The long-term aim of the game is to return the zoo's inhabitants to the wild; when they "level-up" sufficiently through careful nurture, they can be flown back to their natural habitats and tracked on a world map. It's a somewhat idealised view of the zoo business, but as a video game goal, it works as well as any other. The game struggles a little over the mid-to-long term: the difficulty doesn't fluctuate much and, soon enough, you're merely turning the cogs rather than responding to thrilling challenges, but Zoo Tycoon is pleasant and engaging, even in its absence of spectacle.
As an authentic and beautiful recreation of the many eras of motorsport, Forza Motorsport 5 is a real achievement. It's varied and provides hundreds of meticulously crafted digital cars to lust over in startlingly clean garages. But as an entry into the next generation of console gaming, it often fails to leap as far as you may expect.Still, Forza's strength has always been the thrill of the drive, and Motorsport 5 makes several improvements that manage to provide excitement on the racetrack. Most of this is down to Xbox One's excellent new controller, which, with its new and improved force feedback is capable of providing a real sense of contact with the track – as well as other cars. The triggers vibrate independently as you brake, accelerate and career around circuits, and the increased sensitivity allows for more precise control of the car.Perhaps the game's most impressive revolution is the introduction of Drivatar, a cloud-based system that digitally recreates your driving style to populate other player's games. Right now, the system ranges from great to inconsistent, but still shows real promise even at these early stages. Racing against your friends' Drivatars, you'll see things previously impossible to create with computerised AI. Human errors, poor judgment calls and random acts of aggression all make the track a much more dynamic and dangerous place to be, which in turn makes the racing feel truly on the cusp of next gen.With a couple of hundred cars and just 14 circuits, each with their own variations, Forza 5 is a notable cutback in terms of content. Newcomers such as the legendary Spa Francorchamps and Bathurst, Australia are both thrilling, but the appearance of familiar stalwarts like Sebring, Indianapolis and Laguna Seca means that it won't be long before you've seen all the tracks that Forza 5 has to offer.This isn't to say Forza 5 isn't a sizeable game. The variety of the garage alone makes it compelling for any enthusiast. From sports and touring, to prototype and formula cars, Forza 5 introduces a wider breadth to its disciplines. Then there's the Top Gear content, which while not particularly deep still introduces some history to the proceedings, as well as the car customisation that offers the opportunity for hours of artistic brilliance and tuning tinkering.But compared to the content-heavy Forza 4, with its garage of 400+ motors and couple-dozen tracks, and the fast-paced open-world progression of last year's Forza Horizon, Motorsport 5 often feels like a warm-up rather than the victory parade. It may not be introducing us to the future just yet, but as Xbox One's best launch game, it's giving you an exhilarating tease.
This summer, engineers at Google Londonadded the Tardis to Google Street View, but that wasn&apos;t enough for Doctor Who fans, 4,000 of whom have signeda petitionasking Google to do a doodle for the show&apos;s 50th Anniversary.Today, those wishes were granted: not only did Google make the doodle, but the game gracing every Google homepage in the world today is one of the biggest the company has ever produced. But despite appearances, the &quot;Whodle&quot; – as it&apos;s known internally – is the work of just five people, led by Matthew Cruickshank, a Brit who has been working at the company as a full-time doodler for just over a year.&quot;It&apos;s the first game that I&apos;ve designed,&quot; he explains over the phone from California. &quot;But it&apos;s the technicians and programmers that actually make the game. I just art direct, create the assets, set the visual tone, design the characters, and then do pieces of animation.&quot;All the Doctors. Image: Google/Matthew CruickshankIt&apos;s not like Cruickshank has had much time to put everything together, either. Like all Google doodles, the idea wasn&apos;t set in stone until a few months before. &quot;It was about four months ago that an employee here who&apos;s a massive Doctor Who fan added it to our list of potential doodles. We looked through it and realised that this was something special, a chance to really celebrate a national institution.&quot;Cruickshank, whose previous Doodles includean animated tribute to American designer Saul Bassandthe site&apos;s commemoration of the 150th anniversary of the London Underground, got the assignment through a handy bit of stereotyping. &quot;They thought &apos;Oh, Matt is English, so he should do the doodle,&apos;&quot; he recalls with a laugh. &quot;It was a bit of pressure!&quot;All the Doctors. Image: Google/Matthew CruickshankWith a mammoth task ahead, the first job was to boil the entirety of Doctor Who down into something manageable. &quot;I wrote the great things about Doctor Who, the things that fans would want to see. It came down to celebrating – obviously – all of the Doctors; I love the idea of regeneration. And then Daleks, and Tardises. Those are basically the three key points.&quot;The thing is that he&apos;s a Time Lord, a time traveller, so I really wanted to get the feeling across that you could travel to different eras. I definitely didn&apos;t want you to just play one level and that is it, I love the idea of the Doctor being able zoom around the universe.&quot;Working with a character still very much in production can pose its own set of problems, but the BBC leapt at the idea. &quot;I think they were maybe expecting a static doodle, or perhaps something that moved or animated, and we actually said well, we&apos;d really like to try a multi-level platform game. They just said &apos;absolutely fantastic, go for it.&apos; And they were also able to give us sound effects from the actual show.&quot;So they have the real Tardis whoosh? &quot;We have the whoosh.&quot;All the happy Doctors. Image: Google/Matthew CruickshankPerhaps unsurprisingly, Google is full of Doctor Who fans. As well as Cruickshank himself, who grew up in the Tom Baker era and remembers &quot;being absolutely terrified of a black and white episode with the Daleks&quot; even before that, there&apos;s Rui Lopes, one of the programmers who worked on the project.Lopes originally joined the team as a &quot;20 percenter&quot;, making the most of a Google policy that requires all employees to spend a fifth of their time working on projects unrelated to their day jobs, but his involvement grew over time. &quot;He&apos;s a 20 percenter that spent 90% of his time on it,&quot; Cruickshank explains. &quot;I think he hasn&apos;t got in trouble yet.&quot;Working on doodles inspires a level of passion, it seems, and it&apos;s one that Cruickshank shares even though it&apos;s his full time job. &quot;I&apos;ve never worked anywhere where you have such a broad scope of choices that you can make. You could celebrate a cartoonist one day, and then someone who was an expert in physics or something that was a bit more serious. And then you could do a piece of animation, and then you could do a game. There really aren&apos;t any parameters with the job, which makes it unique.&quot;Even so, there are some areas he favours. He has an affinity to &quot;anything British that comes up&quot;, and is particularly proud of the fact that the lines on the London Underground doodle remained relatively accurate to reality. &quot;I really wanted the circle and district lines to work, and actually go around the two Os. It kinda functions, in some weird universe.&quot;
It's an inauspicious start for Microsoft's entry into the so-called "next-generation" of video game consoles, of which Dead Rising 3 leads the rather shambling charge. The game's first 20 minutes shuffles and heaves much like its inhabitants – the mass of ragged, semi-decayed living dead that have overrun Los Perdidos, a comic book approximation of Los Angeles.Nick Ramos, protagonist of this, the third entry to Capcom's humorous interactive ode to George Romero's zombie movies (themselves a commentary on dead-eyed American consumerism) has none of the visual chutzpah Xbox One's new owners will be hoping for. There is slowdown, pixilation and, aside from being able to shake the controller to break free of zombie attacks, or shouting into the Kinect camera's microphone in order to call the attackers over, there's little here in technical terms that hasn't already been achieved on Xbox 360.In play, as well, some legacy problems remain. As wonderful as the smorgasbord of weaponry scattered throughout the city may be – everything from cash registers to shampoo bottles can be shoplifted and used to bludgeon the nose from an incoming zombie – it's often an awkward fumble to pick up the exact object you're looking for from the crowded ground. Contextual prompts irritatingly vie for attention and there's little precision here. Nevertheless, while this issue persists, once you break free of the introductory tunnel and are given free run of Los Perdidos, along with cars and motorbikes to plough through the mass of rotten foes, things improve considerably.The structure is more forgiving than its predecessor, which tasked you with making brief excursions from safehouse in order to rescue survivors. Now you cut a more traditional journey through the game, completing story missions methodically while being regularly distracted with side missions, which include rescuing survivors as they swipe helplessly from the roofs of upturned buses, or hole up in a dry cleaners.As with Dead Rising 2, much of the game's mindless joy comes from locating schematics for combo weapons and creating a monstrous armoury through otherwise mundane objects. Combine boxing gloves with a box of nails, for example, and you'll puncture through zombies with slick abandon, earning bonus experience points as you do so (used to improve Nick's attributes over the game's course). This time vehicles can also be combined into weird and deadly hybrids but, taken as a whole, the objects available to fill your restricted inventory are less outlandish than before.The new structure, while eliminating some of the randomness and tough choices from its predecessors (do I save this person or that person?) shifts the game's focus. Dead Rising now feels like a chaotic mess through which you just pick your own path, and more like a straightforward video game world, specifically built around your character for their benefit, which can be fully explored without the need for real loss. Dead Rising 3 is still one of the strongest titles in the PS4/ Xbox One launch line-up, but that's more down to a lack of sharp competition than any peculiar brilliance. A more forgiving proposition than its forebears, this is an enjoyable zombie romp that's lost some of its character in the lurch onto the next generation hardware.
The UK and US must do more to protect internet users' privacy, the inventor of the world wide web, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, has warned as a  survey of online freedoms is released.Berners-Lee warned that "a growing tide of surveillance and censorship" posed a threat to the future of democracy, even as more and more people were using the internet to expose wrongdoing.His remarks came before the second annual release of a global league table that classifies countries according to a set of freedoms. Since last year, the US has dropped from second place to fourth, while the UK has remained in third place. Sweden still tops the list, with Norway in second place. All of the Scandinavian countries – Sweden, Denmark and Norway – feature in the top 10.The UK was poorly placed on privacy rights but was lifted by its high scores for availability of relevant content and the internet's political impact.Thetableis compiled by comparing 81 countries, combining measures such as the extent of access to the internet, how much censorship is employed, and how "empowered" people are by its availability. The list has been expanded from the 61 countries surveyed last year.Last year,Berners-Lee introduced the inaugural indexby pointing out that there was no off switch for the internet – a fact that was proving uncomfortable for a number of governments that had tried to shut down radical dissent in the previous 12 months through the Arab spring.But this year his remarks focused more on the threat of surveillance, which has been highlighted by the Guardian's revelations about the extent of online spying and subversion of internet protocols by the US's National Security Agency and the UK's GCHQ.The survey found that 76 of the 81 countries examined did not meet "best practice" standards for checks and balances on government interception of electronic communications.Speaking before an event to launch the updated version of the index, the 58-year-old British computer scientist said: "One of the most encouraging findings of this year's Web Index is how the web and social media are increasingly spurring people to organise, take action and try to expose wrongdoing in every region of the world."But some governments are threatened by this, and a growing tide of surveillance and censorship now threatens the future of democracy."Bold steps are needed now to protect our fundamental rights to privacy and freedom of opinion and association online."The survey also found that almost a third of countries surveyed block politically sensitive content.Web innovators, experts and policymakers, including Berners-Lee and the Wikipedia chief Jimmy Wales, were gathering in London on Friday to assess the World Wide Web Foundation's independent annual measure of the web's impact.The US was the best performer this year on use of the web for social, political, environmental and economic empowerment, but received mediocre scores on the breadth of internet access, communications infrastructure, and for its lack of adequate safeguards to protect users' privacy from extensive electronic surveillance.The Web Index Report revealed that beyond the digital divide, the world faces a growing "participation divide", as unequal access to knowledge and speech online denies millions the necessary tools for free and informed participation in democracy.Wealthier groups in most countries were increasingly using the web and social media to gain knowledge and amplify their voice in public debate, the research suggested. Yet wealth was not necessarily a guide to success: Qatar, the world's richest country, ranked below Jamaica, Kazakhstan and Indonesia. Switzerland, the world's third richest country, ranked only just above Estonia.But groups such as low-paid workers, smallholder farmers and women in the developing world were much less likely to be able to access vital information online.Democratisation of information and communication flows was further constrained by a global trend towards greater online censorship and surveillance, the report warned.Along with many other countries including the UK and US, Sweden's leading record in web innovation could be at risk from excessive state surveillance. Russia, meanwhile, ranked 41st, behind countries including the tiny island of Mauritius, for failing to have relevant content or offer empowerment to citizens.Among emerging nations, Mexico achieved the highest overall position in the Web Index 2013, followed by Colombia, Brazil, Costa Rica and South Africa.The Philippines was the developing country that achieved the highest overall ranking in the Web Index 2013, with high scores on web use and measurements of people using the internet and social networks compared with other developing countries. But that position may have literally been blown away by the typhoon that hit earlier this month, killing thousands and destroying connections between the islands.However, except for Morocco (ranked 54th overall in the index), none of the developing countries in the Web Index achieved the UN World Summit on the Information Society target of connecting at least 50% of their populations. In Africa, fewer than one in five people were using the internet.Anne Jellema, the chief executive of the World Wide Web Foundation, said: "Ten years after world leaders committed to harnessing technology to build an inclusive information society, parents in 48% of countries can't use the web to compare school performance and budgets, women in over 60% of countries can't use the web to help them make informed choices about their bodies, and over half the population in developing countries can't use the web at all."Countries should accelerate action to make the web affordable, accessible and relevant to all groups in society, as they promised at the World Summit on the Information Society in 2003."
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSafeplug: safe, secure, anonymous web browsing from any device &gt;&gt; PogoplugYou wouldn't post your home address just anywhere online. So why give it out to every website you visit? When you browse the Internet, every site you visit knows your IP address (a unique number that identifies your computer on the Internet) which can easily reveal your physical location and home address. This information could be accessed, hacked or even sold, exposing your identity and location to unknown parties and putting your family at risk. With Safeplug, you can effectively stop websites from knowing or logging who you are and where you live.Costs $49. Has Pogoplug found its post-surveillance niche?Mozilla banked $274M in '12 from Google-Firefox search deal &gt;&gt; ComputerworldAs in years past, virtually all the foundation's 2012 revenue came from search providers, which paid for leading Firefox users to their websites. In 2012, those royalty payments accounted for 98% of the year's income, a slightly-lower portion than in the last four years.Royalty revenue totalled $305m in 2012, almost double 2011's $162m.The foundation's reliance on Google also continued, with the organisation stating that 90% of all royalties stemmed from the Mountain View, Calif. company whose Chrome browser competes with Firefox on the desktop and mobile platforms. In 2011, Google's contribution accounted for 85% of all royalties.Payments from Google in 2012 were approximately $274m, an increase of 99% over 2011's $138m.Quip, the mobile-only word processor, rolls out major update &gt;&gt; CITEworldQuip, which launched less than three months ago, is an attempt to rethink word processing for the mobile-first era. It's available as an iOS and web app (an Android version is read-only for now), and doesn't even try to duplicate the endless formatting options of Microsoft Word. Rather, it blends document creation and editing with real-time collaboration, so you can see comments and changes in the same view as the document you're working on. It's like instant messaging embedded into Word, on your iPad.And indeed, far more people are using iPads than Taylor expected -- about 50% of all Quip usage is on iPads. Taylor figured it would take off on smartphones first, but it turns out that people are hungry for a good document creation tool for their tablets.Insight: for Intel, Hollywood dreams prove a leap too far &gt;&gt; ReutersEarlier this year, Intel Corp rented temporary retail space in New York, Los Angeles and Chicago for a splashy launch of Intel TV, a new Internet entertainment service that the chipmaker promised could revolutionise the television industry.But when customers walk into those stores this holiday season, they will not find any set-top TV boxes or programming services for sale. Instead, they will see ultra thin laptops and new tablets from a variety of vendors that Intel hopes will help boost its massive but flagging computer chip business.The drastic change in plans for the retail spaces follows the company's abrupt abandonment of a grand plan to become an entertainment hub in living rooms around the world - a retreat that has been rumoured but not yet acknowledged by the company.Dark Matter &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu considers the millions of Android tablets being sold in Asia by no-name manufacturers, and considers their parallels with the now-dead format of Video CD:The "job to be done" [by Video CD players] was to enjoy video content cheaply and conveniently for the equivalent of pennies a day. A job very similar to what we think of as cable TV today.These devices and discs were largely invisible mainly because they did not exist in economies which adopted protected DVDs and because the content consumed did not hit against any databases that tracked consumption. Nevertheless there might have been hundreds of millions of these devices sold and billions of discs viewed.Now we are in a situation where devices whose primary purpose is to watch video content (cheaply and conveniently) are being counted. By their counting, their implicit competitiveness is asserted. But it means nothing if they are not hired for the same jobs. In fact it misdirects attention.BBM shows surprising resilience - BlackBerry becoming a major messaging app challenger &gt;&gt; ForbesTero Kuittinen:On 19 November, BBM remains the Number One iPhone download in 27 countries and Top Five download in 50 countries. Notably, BBM reigns as the most popular app in South Africa, Nigeria, Indonesia and United Arab Emirates. These are markets where BlackBerry was the dominant smartphone three years ago. The ongoing success of BBM as an iPhone app in these countries one month after its debut would seem to indicate that the network effect still binds upscale consumers to BlackBerry software.It's also worth noting that BBM remains a Top Five app in Colombia, Venezuela, Argentina, Honduras, Ecuador and other Latin American countries. BBM is in the process of establishing itself as a strong messaging app contender across Latin America, Africa, Middle East and South East Asia.Intriguingly, BBM remains Number 9 iPhone app in India and Number 4 in the UK. This is pretty fascinating, because BlackBerry never reached mass market in India and its status in the UK started eroding badly already back in 2011.LG Electronics shifts focus from smartphones to TV...a proactive response to reduce risks &gt;&gt; Korea IT News"Recently vice-chairman Koo Bon-joon is often mentioning the smartphone business risk," a core insider of LG [said]. "In the long run the smartphone business is important, but he is trying to concentrate on the TV business, something that LGE can do well in."Although LG Electronics recently released its strategic smartphone G2, its global smartphone market share [position] fell to No. 5 in Q3. LGE was overtaken by Chinese companies Huawei and Lenovo as they rapidly increased smartphone shipments. Its market share fell from 5%-ish to 4.7%.The pressure from the financial circles, e.g. the main creditor banks, seems to have played a big role. Recently financial institutions seem to be paying much attention to managing the risks of chaebol groups in the wake of the STX and Tongyang crises.The Chinese handset makers have global ambitions.Software patent reform just died in the House, thanks to IBM and Microsoft &gt;&gt; Washington PostThe legislation is sponsored by Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. He unveiled a new version of his bill last month, touting it as a cure for the problem of patent trolls. One provision would have expanded what's known as the "covered business method" (CBM) program, which provides an expedited process for the Patent Office to get rid of low-quality software patents. That change would aid in the fight against patent trolls because low-quality software patents are trolls' weapon of choice.But the change could affect the bottom lines of companies with large software patent portfolios. And few firms have larger software patent portfolios than Microsoft and IBM. These companies, which also happen to have two of the software industry's largest lobbying budgets, have been leading voices against the expansion of the CBM program.A later vote confirmed that the CBM element was dead.Salesforce boss Benioff foretells grim, unrelenting hyper-capitalist future &gt;&gt; The Register"Remember who I am and the loyalty I deserve!" [Salesforce founder Marc Benioff] bellows in his keynote speech at Dreamforce 2013. "When I have a problem with my toothbrush is there a button that can get me connected to Philips to get that issue resolved?"The lack of a Wi-Fi-connected adult-baby toothbrush is a serious issue at Dreamforce, and one that must be dealt with.According to Benioff's customer management software company, this year is the dawn of "the internet of customers". There are "billions of them", a glossy promo video tells us, and the company's new Salesforce1 platform is going to help companies hunt these people down and "turn consumers into customers".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Xbox One launch day! Let us know if you got one!
A California jury ruled Thursday that electronics giant Samsung owes rival Apple another $290m for infringing the iPhone and iPad maker’s patents.The retrial verdict came after judge Lucy Koh vacated over $400m of the original $1bn damages the jury awarded Apple in March, saying the jurors had miscalculated. The new jury sided heavily with Apple, which argued it was owed another $379m. Samsung argued it owed just $52m and that Apple had inflated the worth of its patents.Barring a successful appeal, the Korean maker of Galaxy smartphones and tablets owes more than $800m in damages, including the award from the original verdict as well.The verdict came on the third day of deliberations for the eight-member jury. On Wednesday, they asked the judge for calculators and highlighter pens to help determine how much Samsung owes for copying key features in 13 of its own phones and tablets sold in the US.On Thursday, they ordered Thai food from San Jose’s House of Siam and asked for a copy of the courtroom sketch made of them before delivering their verdict at 1:30pm local time.The verdict is a blow for Samsung, which is locked in legal skirmishes with Apple in courtrooms across the world.Bruce Abramson, a registered patent attorney at Rimon PC in New York, said the two tech giants dominated the field and owned so many patents between them that there was no end to their battle in sight.“It seems unlikely that either will force the other out of a major market at this stage,” he said. “They’ll go at it until someone calls a truce, or someone else comes along with some new technology and pulls the plug on them.”Samsung made two attempts this week to halt the trial. On Tuesday, it called for a mistrial after Apple lawyer Harold McElhinny told the jury that the US TV manufacturing business had died because businesses didn&apos;t adequately protect their intellectual property from foreign companies.&quot;Our economy will disappear,&quot; McElhinny told the court in the heart of Silicon Valley. &quot;If the cost of breaking the law is a small fine … Samsung&apos;s copying will have proven successful.&quot;Samsung called the comments racist. Judge Koh denied the stay but instructed the jury to ignore where the companies are based, or their race, in their deliberations.On Wednesday, Samsung filed for an emergency stay after the US Patent and Trademark Office said an Apple patent important to the damages case might not be valid. Koh has not ruled on the motion to stay. Apple argued against the motion to stay, saying it crossed “the bounds of reason” and would cause require a retrial of the retrial.The verdict is the latest in a series between the two electronics giants, which have tried to get their rival’s goods banned in Europe, Australia and Asia, as well as in the US.Judge Koh vacated part of the previous jury&apos;s damages award after determining they had miscalculated the amounts owing for 13 of the 26 products in the original trial.Another, potentially bigger trial, between the two sides is scheduled for March 2014, when Apple will argue that Samsung&apos;s existing products infringe its patents.Abramson said the huge legal costs and big fines the two tech titans were generating also sent a clear signal to their smaller rivals.“As they jockey for position, it defines the territory for other people. It says to other people: ‘Don’t even think about it’. If you&apos;re thinking about getting into this market, we&apos;re going to hit you hard coming out of the gate.”
That &quot;smart TV&quot; you bought might be smarter than you expected. LG&apos;s smart TV sets send information back to the Korean company about what programmes you have watched, and even what files you may have stored on a USB disks attached to them, a British owner has found.That has triggered an investigation by the the information commissioner&apos;s office over whether sending the data has been done without the user&apos;s proper consent.The ICO says that it has &quot;recently been made aware of a possible data breach which may involve LG smart TVs&quot; and that it will be making inquiries.The discovery of the data transmission was made by Jason Huntley, a UK-based IT consultant whoblogged about his discoverythat a setting buried deep in the system defaults included one which said &quot;Collection of watching info&quot;, which was set to &quot;on&quot;. He found that the data was sent whether the setting was &quot;on&quot; or &quot;off&quot;.On Thursday, LG defended its actions, saying that &quot;information such as channel, broadcast source etc that is collected by certain LG smart TVs is not personal but viewing information&quot;. This was collected &quot;to deliver more relevant advertisements and to offer recommendations to viewers based on what other LG smart TV owners are watching&quot;.It conceded that the system also collected filenames of attached USB disks, which it said was &quot;part of a new feature being readied to search for data from the internet (metadata) relating to the program being watched&quot;.An LG spokesperson said that the company is now preparing a software update that will ensure the data is not collected if the relevant setting is off, and would stop collecting filenames.Earlier this week, the company said that the owner had consented to the collection by accepting the terms and conditions displayed on the TV when it was set up – and so should complain to the retailer.Millions of TVs with the ability to connect to the internet have been sold in the past two years: according to the consultancy IHS Suppli, 66m were sold in 2012, making up nearly a third of all TV sets sold. By 2015, it forecast that 55% of all TVs sold will be smart TVs, at 141m annually.But until now it had been thought that the &quot;smart&quot; element was principally one-way - from the internet to the TV, rather than from the viewer to the TV set owner.Dan Wallach, of Princeton University&apos;s centre for information technology policy, said the key problem was &quot;incompetence&quot;, adding: &quot;Somebody thought it was a good idea to build these TVs with all these features and nobody ever said &apos;maybe we need some security people on the design team to make sure we don’t have a problem&apos;, much less &apos;maybe all this data flowing from the TV to us constitutes a massive violation of our customers’ privacy that will land us in legal hot water&apos;. The deep issue here is that it’s relatively easy to build something that works, but it’s significantly harder to build something that’s secure and respects privacy.&quot;A growing number of smart TVs also offer app stores, like those found on smartphones and tablets - which could mean that they are seeking to gather more data on their users.Data was not encrypted, meaning that it could be picked up by any system in between the TV set and LG&apos;s servers. Although the servers were not active, they could have been turned on at any time to receive user information.In a statement, LG told the Guardian: &quot;Customer privacy is a top priority at LG Electronics and as such, we take this issue very seriously. We are looking into reports that certain viewing information on LG smart TVs was shared without consent. LG offers many unique smart TV models, which differ in features and functions from one market to another.&quot;
My kids are enrolled in a parent-cooperative nursery in Sweden, so all parents have roles in the running of the nursery. My role is responsibility for IT, and over the past few years, I have been slowly updating and improving all the hardware and software.  Now it's time for the desktop PC to be replaced, and this is where I am at a bit of a loss. As a Mac user, I have little knowledge of what would be suitable. However, I know that the staff – capable as they are – couldn't cope with a switch to Mac.The main requirements for the hardware are:• A good financial investment - reliable quality - takes care of itself.• Future proof/upgradeable (three years or more).• Can handle images, and Microsoft Office for documents, posters, forms etc.For software, I'm also looking for a backup system similar to Time Machine on the Mac, and for newsletters, software that can simply edit photos from iPads and digital cameras. Also, I want an email client to let each staff member log into their own account from the same user profile.MatthewThere are two ways to approach the hardware. Either you can buy from a global giant that specialises in supplying small businesses and offers on-site service, or you can buy from a small, local shop that also specialises in looking after small businesses. The former is probably the safest course, but the latter is worth considering if you are close to a really good local supplier.If you decide to go with a global giant, both HP and Dell supply cheap, reliable, small-tower desktop computers that are easy to repair and upgrade. Their desktops should easily last three years, and six years is more likely. Indeed, I think you should buy a machine that you expect to run until 14 January, 2020, which is when Microsoft will stop supporting Windows 7. This means you can amortise the cost over 300 weeks or 72 months.HP or Dell?From HP's range, I would go for theHP 3500 Pro Microtower PC &amp; HP 23bw IPS LED backlit monitor. This has a third generation Intel Core i5-3470 quad-core processor with 4GB of memory, a 500GB hard drive, and 64-bit Windows 7. The closest I can find after wrestling with HP's Swedish site is theHP Pro 3500 MT (C5X65EA). Note that you will want to add a Care Pack to provide three years of next business day on-site service."Defective Media Retention" means you get to keep the hard drive if something goes wrong with it. This is highly recommended for data protection purposes. It's even more recommended if the drive contains data about nursery school children.From Dell's range, I would go for theVostro 270MT. This has the same specification as the HP machine, including the Core i5-3470 processor. Again, go for three years of Pro (rather than Basic) support. I bought a similar but slightly bigger machine two years ago -- a Dell Vostro 460DT with a Core i5-2500 -- but included an Nvidia GeForce GT 420 graphics card. The 270MT lacks this and will use main memory for graphics, but it should not be a problem for your purposes. In any case, it's easy to add a cheap graphics card or extra memory later.The third-generation Core i5-3470 is quite a bit faster than, for example, a fourth-generation Haswell Core i7-4600U. Being in a desktop tower, it can run hotter than would be possible in a thin laptop (in this case, 77 Watts vs 15 Watts).Windows and OfficeThere are several reasons for getting 64-bit Windows 7 Pro. First, the desktop interface should be an easier step up, compared to Windows 8, for those not already familiar with it. Second, it will be supported until 2020, as mentioned, and it's not going to change, though you should keep updating to newer browsers. Third, Microsoft allows you to run a free virtual copy of Windows XP under Windows 7 Pro, if you have some reason for doing that. Fourth, you're actually buying a copy of Windows 8 with a downgrade to Windows 7 Pro, so you could upgrade to Windows 8 free of charge, if you wanted to.You don't mention which version of Microsoft Office you have, but if you have the DVDs, you can install the old copy on your new PC. If not, I would buy a DVD copy of Microsoft Office Home and Business 2010. There are some advantages to the new Office 2013, particularly the wealth of templates and the live preview options that make it much easier to make documents look nice. Also, you can synchronise Office 2013 with Outlook.com web-based email without using the oldMicrosoft Office Outlook Hotmail Connector. However, 2010 is more likely to be familiar to existing users of Office 2007 and 2010. (You don't need to be at the "leading edge", but nor should you fall too far behind.)Microsoft Office Home and Business 2010 includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote and Outlook, which should take care of most of your office needs. Everyone should use the same Microsoft Outlook account for all nursery business email, contacts book and calendar, and Outlook can also be used to organise meetings and keep to-do lists. Staff should not use it to send personal emails: they can use their own web-based mail accounts, such as Google's Gmail or Microsoft's Outlook.com. Of course, you should remind them not to store their passwords in shared web browsers.This version of Office does not include Microsoft Publisher, but Word already includes simple photo editing tools. Once you have pasted in a photo, you can crop and rotate it, change brightness and contrast, and add effects, including soft edges. I prefer to edit copies of photos first, but the freePaint.netis powerful enough for most ordinary purposes. You don't need Microsoft Publisher (which is included in bigger versions of Office) because you can use the freeSerif PagePlus Starter Editioninstead.Scribusis a free, open source alternative, but harder to use.Backup strategiesWindows 7 already has easy-to-usebackup and restore, which includes scheduled backups. If you buy a Dell, you may find it includes a similar but unnecessary program,Dell DataSafe Local Backup, which tries to get you to upgrade to a premium version.Time Machinekeeps hourly backups for the past 24 hours, daily backups for the past month, and weekly backups until your backup drive is full. I can't think of a PC product that does the same thing out of the box, but there are plenty of options that keep earlier versions of files, if you set them up.RollBack RX($69) andGenie Timeline Professional 2013(£44.95) seem closest to Time Machine. 2BrightSparks'SyncBack Pro(£37.48) should also do everything you need, as long as you watch out for running out of drive space. Altaro'sBackupFS(£79) is another option, though it's really designed for servers. However, I'm going by spec sheets: I haven't used any of these programs myself.The more obvious way of backing things up to an external hard drive is to use a free file synchronisation program. I'd go for either 2BrightSparks'SyncBackFree V6.5or the open sourceFreeFileSync(which is the one I use) rather than Microsoft's popularSyncToy 2.1.Windows 7 already has System Protection turned on by default for the C: drive, so right-clicking on any file offers the menu option to "Restore previous versions". Otherwise,AutoVerfreeware provides a really simple way to keep real-time backups of multiple versions of files. Windows 7's backup program can create a disk image as a VHD (Virtual Hard Drive) file that is a complete, mountable clone of your PC. That plus some free file syncing may be all you need.There are lots of other useful free programs for Windows, but that's a different question, if someone wants to ask it ...
Google Chrome’slatest experiment, like all its web experiments, is designed to explore what is possible within the browser. And within Middle-earth.Inspired by the upcoming film, The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug, Google has unveiled the newA Journey through Middle-earth Chrome experiment, developed in collaboration with Warner Bros, New Line Cinema and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.“You don’t need to be besties with a Wizard to share an adventure in Middle-earth – just point your favourite browser togoo.gl/TheHobbiton your laptop, phone or tablet to check out “Journey through Middle-earth”, Christos Apartoglou, Google’s product marketing manager saidin a blogpost.Demonstrates the power of modern web technologiesBuilt purely within HTML, CSS and JavaScript, the new interactive starts with a map, zooming in to locations within Middle-earth, allowing the curious to learn about the characters from JRR Tolkien’s classic book, The Hobbit, and the history of the fantasy world.The experiment demonstrates the power of modern web technologies, including the Web Audio API and WebGL to deliver an engaging, interactive multimedia experience that works just as well on smartphones and tablets as it does on the desktop, with only a browser required.A Journey through Middle-earth works especially well on modern Android smartphones and tablets within the Chrome browser. Chrome on the iPhone and iPad lacks support for WebGL, but works for most of the experiment.“Journey through Middle-earth is the first Chrome Experiment designed to bring a beautiful, 3D experience to mobile, thanks to support for WebGL in Chrome for Android on devices with high-end graphics cards,” Apartoglou said.• In 2010,Arcade Fire used HTML5to build one of the first interactive Chrome experiments
The imminent release of Finnish mobile phone manufacturer Nokia’s first tablet, the Windows RT 8.1-basedLumia 2520, aims to take on Apple’s iPad and the Microsoft Surface.A 10.1in Windows tablet, the Lumia 2520 is a direct challenge toMicrosoft’s own Surface line of tablet computers– despiteNokia becoming a Microsoft company- and attempts to make Windows tablets more colourful, vibrant and connected with built-in 4G broadband support.The 2520 is Nokia’s first tablet but, given the clash with theSurfacetablets, it could also be its last. So is it any good? The first early reviews are in, and the general consensus seems to be that it is no Surface or iPad killer.Dana Wollmanon tech blog Engadget says:“Whereas Microsoft sees the Surface as kind of a laptop/tablet hybrid – a real productivity device – the 2520 is, at its heart, just a tablet. The 2520 has no kickstand, no full-sized USB port – not unless you buy the optional keyboard cover, anyway.”PCWorld’s Jon Phillipslikes the look of the Nokia tablet:Decked out in glossy red plastic, the Lumia 2520 evokes the pop-art whimsy of 1970s product design. Corners are soft. Edges are chamferless. Sitting next to the Surface 2, the Lumia tablet looks like Andy Warhol sitting next to Darth Vader. Nokia has done a great job in creating visual separation between its first foray into the tablet market and Microsoft’s own tablet line, and from a purely aesthetic perspective, there’s something undeniably inviting about the 2520’s candy-coated shell.ReadWriteWeb’s Dan Rowinskitalks Nokia’s software stakes:Unlike Microsoft, Nokia is no stranger to building apps for ARM devices, and so offers a number of proprietary services that run on top of Windows RT.Nokia HERE Maps, Nokia Music, Storyteller, Nokia Camera and the Nokia Video Director all make their way to the Lumia 2520. These are welcome additions to the standard Microsoft core apps that run on Windows 8.1 RT.The only problem with the Nokia-specific apps is that they require the user to establish a Nokia account instead of just using the Microsoft account that Windows 8.1 RT forces users to sign up for on Windows devices. Since Microsoft and Nokia are almost the same company, the two might as well push for a single sign-on for all the apps between the two companies.Eric Franklinwrote on tech site CNET:Nokia&apos;s first tablet isn&apos;t a bad device by any means. It delivers impressive gaming performance, has built-in cellular support, an incredibly bright screen, and includes a suite of Nokia-only apps.However, I couldn&apos;t figure out why the 2520 is so thick. TheMicrosoft Surface 2has just as much girth, but earns its corpulence with a kickstand and a full USB port.The Lumia 2520&apos;s screen also has a distracting yellow tint, and the $149 keyboard/cover accessory isn&apos;t nearly as comfortable to type on as Surface 2&apos;s Type Cover.But should you buy the Lumia 2520? Gadget blog Gizmodo’sLeslie Horn says no:“Probably not. I want to like the Lumia. I really gravitate toward a design that I find cheery and colourful and different from everything else out there. But otherwise it&apos;s a pretty unremarkable tablet, running a the lackluster Windows RT OS with none of the Surface 2&apos;s redeeming qualities to help compensate. There&apos;s not much sense in buying the Lumia 2520 instead of the Surface 2 (if you need RT for some reason) except maybe LTE.”
British startup Songkick has been helping music fans find gigs to go to since 2008. It now attracts 8.5m people a month to its website and mobile apps, up from5m in March 2012.The Songkick Concerts mobile app is increasingly key to that growth, having launched on iPhone in June 2011, then Android a year later. Chief executive Ian Hogarth says that &quot;well over 50%&quot; of Songkick&apos;s users are now using it on mobile devices.The problem that the company has been grappling with is that only a fifth of those mobile users ever buy tickets from their phone. If you use the app, you&apos;ll know why: tapping through to buy from one of the company&apos;s ticketing partners often throws you into an unoptimised-for-mobile website.Version 3.0 ofSongkick&apos;s iPhone app, which launched today, is hoping to change that. The big new feature is in-app ticketing, available in the UK only for now, with plans to expand worldwide in the future.&quot;The discovery layer of concertgoing is now dominantly mobile, but we&apos;ve not really seen the transactions on mobile moving above 10%, because the user experience of buying tickets on mobile hasn&apos;t really evolved,&quot; Hogarth told The Guardian ahead of the launch.&quot;This is our big step towards evolving it. We believe that the number of people who buy tickets on mobile will go up dramatically when we integrate that into the mobile experience. Potentially five times as many people.&quot;It&apos;s a big step for Songkick too: it&apos;s not using Apple&apos;s in-app purchases to tell the tickets, so it&apos;ll be the first time people store their credit card details with Songkick itself: a direct billing relationship with music fans.That&apos;s something that could (and, indeed, should) make big, established ticketing companies like Ticketmaster prick up their ears, even if it&apos;s limited for now – Hogarth estimated that at launch, around 20% of gigs in London will be covered, for example.He&apos;s also steering clear of grand claims for the impact the new feature may have on larger competitors, preferring instead to talk about the more general effects of making mobile ticket-buying easier for music fans.&quot;On the web, it&apos;s quite common to bounce around different pages, from Songkick to another site to do the transaction for example. On mobile, there&apos;s a much higher expectation around mobile commerce for a smooth, integrated experience with as few taps as possible,&quot; he said.&quot;One friend of mine got an alert from Songkick about three bands he liked all announcing shows, and he went to buy tickets to all three, but was so exhausted after the first transaction, he didn&apos;t buy any more. That&apos;s insane! But that&apos;s how much friction there has been in the mobile experience.&quot;Hogarth says Songkick has an in-house rule that its staff buy their own tickets to gigs, even though the company&apos;s partnerships with promoters and venues mean freebies wouldn&apos;t be hard to come by. That&apos;s also influenced its desire to shake up mobile ticketing.&quot;It keeps us close to the pain that everyday fans experience! We&apos;ve always got team members in the office at 9am trying to buy tickets for hot shows as they go on sale,&quot; he said. &quot;If you have better mobile ticketing, now you can buy it on the train.&quot;As Songkick has grown, so its mobile usage has become more important. Source: Songkick.What about the impact on the big beasts of the ticketing industry? Hogarth prefers to think of Songkick as disrupting the live music industry one step at a time, comparing the company to Netflix&apos;s evolution in the streaming TV/films market.&quot;Every year they got better and better, moving the consumer experience forward a bit: that series of small steps that eventually add up to one really big step,&quot; he said.&quot;For us, the outcome is not so much disruption of the traditional way of doing things in ticketing, but more a disruption of concert attendance: doubling or tripling the number of people who go to shows, and expanding the industry.&quot;&quot;When you sit down with an average fan off the street and ask about music consumption, everyone&apos;s listening to more music but not necessarily going to more concerts yet. Why? It&apos;s still less accessible than recorded music,&quot; he continued.&quot;The history of the internet is that if you make something more accessible, more people do it. So the new feature is all about increasing accessibility. If we do more of that, we can get to a place where the concert industry is twice the size it is today.&quot;In-app ticketing isn&apos;t the only new feature in version 3.0 of Songkick&apos;s iPhone app. Traditionally, it learned about users by scanning their iTunes libraries to see what artists&apos; songs were on their phone. Now it&apos;ll also scan their Spotify data, if they use the streaming music service.&quot;Our users have led us there: we&apos;ve always been big fans of streaming, and more and more we&apos;re seeing people using Spotify on their phones as a primary source of music consumption, so we&apos;ve now hardwired that in,&quot; said Hogarth.It&apos;s part of a wider partnership between Spotify and Songkick: the latter firm has an app in Spotify&apos;s desktop client, and also powers an &quot;On Tour&quot; section of Spotify&apos;s artist profiles – &quot;The early data is very encouraging,&quot; said Hogarth, although that data isn&apos;t being shared publicly just yet.Once in-app ticketing is launched on iPhone, Songkick will focus on signing up more partners in the UK and elsewhere in the world, while continuing to work on its separate Detour service that helps fans crowdfund gigs by their favourite artists.And yes, Songkick&apos;s Android app will be getting ticketing at some point. &quot;We prioritised iOS first, because the data we have shows that at the moment, more transactions are started from our iOS app than our Android app,&quot; said Hogarth.For now, Songkick&apos;s overall service remains focused on telling you when bands it knows you like are playing live, based on the music you own and play. It&apos;s still thinking about how and when to expand that into recommendations of bands it thinks you&apos;ll like based on that data, even if you haven&apos;t heard of them yet.&quot;Recommendations? That&apos;s something we&apos;re thinking about a lot, because people use mobile in a more discovery-oriented browse-based way,&quot; said Hogarth, citing RSS-reader apps as an example.&quot;The mobile versions are much more oriented around casual discovery than laser-focused &apos;this is what I&apos;m interested in&apos; usage. We&apos;re excited about exploring some of those ideas for live music,&quot; he said.&quot;But it goes back to the core problem for the industry: if someone&apos;s going to one concert a year, the best chance of getting them to go to two is to focus on stuff they already listen to, rather than stuff they don&apos;t know. That&apos;s step one, but discovery is something we&apos;re looking at for the future.&quot;
Keep it simple, stupidSimplicity. I was obsessed with simplicity, especially since our target market for SelfieText, an app that helps you share “selfies”, was for high school and university kids.In our experience with building other products, such asPressMoi(a real-time Q&amp;A events app), we had learned that these users are impatient and ruthless, and will delete an app within seconds of downloading it if it’s too hard to work out.A screenshot of PressMoi, a real time Q+A app. Photograph: /PRLog in, turn onThroughout the month of March 2013, I interviewed 12 university students to find out what apps they downloaded, and what made those apps stick. The common theme was simplicity. In late March, when our team nearly finished the product, we had to make a decision on our login screen.It was a pretty easy decision at the time – using social logins was a no-brainer. Nearly every website enabled users to sign in via Facebook or Twitter. We thought that by removing the barriers of a lengthy email sign-up process, we could drive more traffic. I thought: “Who wants to remember another password anyways?”Selfietext login screen, March 2013: everyone will want to use their Facebook or Twitter logins, won't they? Photograph: /PRWe also didn’t want to annoy our customers by posting their pictures to Facebook or Twitter. We clearly stated on our login page that we promised never to share anything on our users’ social networks. Personally, I remembered some friends&apos; horror at finding out that their Instagram activity was being posted on Facebook, and watching them immediately triple-check to ensure their Instagram settings were no longer set to “auto-share”.And with that promise made, and the login screens set up , we were convinced – like every app developer – that we had a hit. We would build the next best social network, and the rest would be history.In early April 2013, I was happy with the initial downloads, but when I looked into our analytics of our backend technology stack, Parse, we noticed that the activity was extremely low. What was happening? Was the design crappy? Was the value proposition (share selfies with people you know) not articulated clearly? Was there a bug in our login page? We didn’t find out the answer until we decided to actually ask our customers.Feedback to Selfietext from customers via Kik suggested they didn't want any connection with other social networks. Photograph: /PROur first batch came from direct messaging potential users on Kik, the red-hot private messaging app, where we asked 20 people for their initial impressions of the app.Many told us that they didn’t like the login options, and that their friends would refuse to sign up for the app because it linked only to Facebook and Twitter.We learned there and then that especially for a younger demographic even mentioning Facebook or Twitter was a turnoff. I thought: when did Facebook and Twitter become so uncool? One user told us that “Facebook is for moms” and “Twitter is for jokes”. Our users also initially feared that their posts would appear on these other social networks, even though we promised them otherwise.Our biggest shock came from the response of a group of users who had downloaded the app but had never posted anything. In May 2013, we introduced an email login option above the one for Facebook and Twitter. We asked that group of users to sign up through our new email login feature. We thought they would jump all over it.Not one person signed up with the app. Zero.Why? Because we lost their trust. They were immediately scared by the Facebook and Twitter logins, and they didn&apos;t trust us anymore. Even though we had told them the app would never post on their social networks, the SelfieText brand was essentially dead to them.It was a tough lesson. We had worked so hard to generate those leads, and they were all gone. I was shocked at how Facebook and Twitter had ruined our reputation.Selfietext login screen, October 2013: signups are email-only. Photograph: /PRIn October 2013, with our new version, pictures self-destruct in less than 12 seconds, and you can only share among your groups of friends. We also eliminated Facebook and Twitter, opting for the more traditional email signup model. Why? Because our users were asking for more privacy and security. By eliminating Facebook and Twitter, we saw our usage triple.Selfetext in October 2013: by user request,and design, pictures self-destruct in a few seconds. Photograph: /PRWhat&apos;s more, since our users aren&apos;t interested in Facebook and Twitter, we also decided to eliminate our own SelfieText accounts on the two biggest social networks. We use other apps such as Instagram, Kik and iMessage so that users can connect with us. As we grow, we may decide to reactivate our Facebook and Twitter accounts; but for now, there is no need.What did I learn? That you can&apos;t build a social network without trust from your users. And that we just didn’t realise how much Facebook and Twitter would hurt us.Shawn Kanungo is co-founder of Selfietext•How selfies became a global phenomenon
Massachusetts police have admitted to paying a bitcoin ransom after being infected by the Cryptolocker ransomware.The Cryptolocker malwareinfects a computer, normally via a legitimate-looking email that urges the reader to open an attachment often posing as a voicemail, fax, invoice or details of a suspicious transaction that is being queried.Once the Windows computer is infected, the malware encrypts the user&apos;s hard drive and then begins displaying a countdown timer, while demanding payment for the release of the data of 2 bitcoins – an almost untraceable, peer-to-peer digital online currency – which at current exchange rates equates to about £832 or $1338.“(The virus) is so complicated and successful that you have to buy these bitcoins, which we had never heard of,” Swansea Police Lt. Gregory Ryantalking to the Herald News. “It was an education for (those who) had to deal with it.”Essential operational computers were not affectedRyan insisted that the Massachusetts police systems were now clear of infection, and that essential operational computers were not affected, nor was there any data stolen.The FBI is currently investigating the virus infection of the police computer, which is thought to have evolved over the last year and originated from somewhere within former Soviet nations such as Ukraine and Russia.Do not click on any attachmentsThe Cryptolocker malware is not new, but has recently become more prevalent, prompting the UK’s National Crime Agency (NCA)to put out an alert on 15 Novemberwarning that emails pretending to be from banks and financial institutions are being sent to small and medium businesses, as well as millions of bank customers.NCA advised users not to click on any attachments like those described and to be suspicious of any emails that appear to come from a bank or other financial institution.If a computer becomes infected it should immediately be disconnected from any networks and a professional called in to clear the machine. However, the current state of encryption technology means that it is unlikely the encryption can be unscrambled, and therefore the hard drive will likely have to be erased and restored from a backup.• Prepare your computer with10 ways to beat Cryptolockerand keep your data safe from the ransom scam
Code repository GitHub has been hit with an attack compromising the accounts of users with weak passwords.Known as a brute force attack, the hackers used nearly 40,000 unique IP addresses to send a huge amount of password guesses to GitHub. As a result, some users with easily-guessed passwords, as well as those who had re-used passwords from other compromised websites, saw their accounts broken into.The site is an online code repository, which lets programmers collaborate on software projects. Major free software projects such as Linux, WordPress, and the Android operating system are hosted there.Github has notified users whose accounts were compromised, and reset all their security information; it has also reset the accounts of a few users with strong passwords which showed logins from one of the 40,000 IP addresses.&quot;This is a great opportunity for you to review your account, ensure that you have a strong password and enable two-factor authentication,&quot;said Github engineer Shawn Davenport. &quot;In addition, you will no longer be able to login to GitHub.com with commonly-used weak passwords.&quot;The site now blocks passwords such as &quot;passw0rd&quot; and &quot;123456&quot;. The latter password was used by almost one in every 20 accounts hosted by the niche dating service Cupid Media,which revealed on Wednesday that it had been hacked earlier this year.Davenport emphasised that the site stores passwords according to industry best practice, in a manner which prevents password theft.•The Github attack pales in comparison to one on Adobe last month, which saw more than 150m passwords compromised
Xbox One, the latest games console from Microsoft, faces stiff competition from Sony's PlayStation 4 this Christmas. When Xbox One was first unveiled to gamers in May, Microsoft nearly blew it by focusing on the console's wider entertainment features. We were told we would be able to plug in our satellite or cable TV services and control all of our entertainment – TV, video, music – on one device. Games would be delivered mostly in digital form, with Microsoft controlling how we would share and sell them on. That wasn't what the Xbox core demographic wanted to hear.There has been a reversal and explanation since, and Xbox One has clawed back some of that gamer goodwill, but internet rage lingers on.If consumers do embrace the Xbox One, they will have to put it down pretty quickly: it is extremely big and heavy. Comparisons to an early VHS video recorder are a little unkind but have some truth. It is a monolithic black box designed to hunch beneath your TV and look powerful.When you switch it on you discover it is mercifully quiet, and all it wants to do is help you. The user interface is a huge improvement over Xbox 360's mess of content. The main screen has all the key options, an area to the left allows you to pin a selection of your favourite games, music, movies or apps, and the digital store is on the right.More impressive is its ability to quickly switch between different tasks. If a friend calls for a Skype chat while you're playing a game, you can take the call and pause the action. If you want to browse the web while watching a movie, you can open up Internet Explorer in a smaller window. It's all very smooth and seamless, though doesn't quite have the flashy vibrancy of the PS4's interface, which feels like a social network mixed with a high-score table.The controller has many clever design improvements, as has Kinect, the motion-sensitive camera that can track body movement and understand voice commands. This little device has been a major battleground for gamers who recall how annoyingly useless the tech was on Xbox 360. Here, though, it works well, recognising individual gamers and responding quickly to your voice. Movement-based titles such as Kinect Sports Rivals and Just Dance 2014 will get interesting things out of it. The Xbox Fitness app even senses your pulse by monitoring fluctuations in skin tone. It's weird to imagine how that will be used in horror games.On the subject of games, the launch lineup ranges from mediocre to pretty good. Forza Motorsport 5 is a beautiful driving simulation, but the zombie thriller Dead Rising 3 struggles to match the fun of its predecessors, and the graphically rich but interactively limited Ryse: Son Of Rome feels like a Zach Snyder action movie in search of a game. Conversions of recent big recent releases such as Battlefield 4, Assassin's Creed IV and Fifa 2014 are fine, but few try anything apart from adding visual detail, and in this area PS4 has edged ahead.Although both machines feature eight-core processors and similar graphics engines, Sony's employs a faster form of computer memory and its architecture is more straightforwardly powerful. It seems developers will have to work at Xbox One to get similar results.There is much potential here in this big black slab, and there is a lot of functionality still to discover. When big new titles such as Titanfall, Halo 5, Fable Legends and Minecraft creator Mojang's Cobalt arrive, Xbox One will start to look extremely enticing.But something about PS4 feels fresher, more seductive, and Sony ended this generation with one of the true great games, The Last of Us. The momentum is there.  While Xbox One seems like the underdog, it has come a long way since May. It can go the distance.
Wikipedia has sent a cease-and-desist letter to a Texas PR company that offers to help clients by editing entries on the online encyclopaedia in their favour.It follows an investigation lasting more than a year by Wikipedia&apos;s own volunteer editors, which suggested that Wiki-PR, based in Austin, Texas, hadcreated more than 300 &quot;sockpuppet&quot; accounts– fake profiles set up by people and companies – to edit entries about clients.Wiki-PR has been banned from editing entries on Wikipedia since October because its paid advocacy breaches the site&apos;s terms of use. Thelatest move from Wikipedia&apos;s executive director Sue Gardnerraises the stakes by banning any use of sockpuppet accounts that might have been created by the company.The move against Wiki-PR is part of growing efforts by Wikipedia to block paid advocacy and &quot;sockpuppets&quot; on the site, which has grown since its beginning in January 2001 to encompass more than 30m articles written in 290 languages.Its importance rests on the fact that Wikipedia is often linked to as the source of information elsewhere on the web. That makes it highly ranked in search results: one of its articles will often figure in the top two or three results in a search for a related topic, meaning that people often rely on information they find there.The law firm retained by Wikipedia accuses the PR company of misusing its trademark on its site, and notes that the ban could be ended if Wiki-PR divulges all the sockpuppet accounts it has created, a list of the articles it has edited, and pledges only to edit via disclosed accounts and adhere &quot;as closely as possible&quot; to Wikipedia&apos;s editing policies.On itssite, the PR company says that it offers &quot;the easy way to accurately tell your story on Wikipedia&quot;. The site&apos;sleadership pagesays that its co-founder, Darius Fisher, &quot;has built Wiki-PR into the largest Wikipedia consulting firm&quot; after realising the importance of Wikipedia entries while working with a crisis communications consultant in San Francisco.The company&apos;s role in editing entries came to light after Wikipedia&apos;s own volunteer editors carried out an investigation lasting more than a year which suggested that Wiki-PR had created more than 300 &quot;sockpuppet&quot; accounts that were being used to edit entries about companies. Hiring PR companies to edit Wikipedia entries is known as &quot;meatpuppetry&quot;.Among companies whose entries are said to have been edited by the company are those for Priceline and the communications company ViacomWikipedia sets great store on the idea that its entries should be presented from a &quot;neutral point of view&quot; and that they should be verifiable from external online sources.&quot;Sockpuppetry and meatpuppetry are especially harmful when used to disguise secret works of advocacy purchased by clients to promote a particular product, idea or agenda,&quot; says Wikipedia&apos;s lawyers in the letter to Wiki PR. It adds that the extra editing load required to root out such advocacy &quot;squanders valuable volunteer time, to the detriment of the entire Wikipedia community&quot;.In a statement, Jordan French of Wiki-PR told the Guardian: &quot;Wiki-PR is working with the Wikimedia foundation and its counsel to sort this out.&quot; He said that it hoped to have further information in a week&apos;s time.
You may have already seen the review – and the score. In Thursday's newspaper (andonline already), I had 700 words to assess Xbox One, a machine of great complexity, that has taken several years to design. I pointed out that much of what it was built to offer, such as better Kinect integration, and a cool customisable interface, has been realised very well. It's what you'd expect, I think, eight years after the launch of its brilliant predecessor.But I gave it 3/5.And I did that why? Because a lot of what's interesting about the machine just isn't there yet. Only Forza Motorsport 5 really hints at the possibilities of the cloud, few games do anything fascinating with the new Kinect. All the games could have existed on Xbox 360, with a few compromises here and there. And in the UK, we don't get the much-vaunted live TV functionality until next year – and this has been touted as a major marketing "tentpole" feature since the outset.Can you score potential? I'm not sure you can, I don't think it's fair to the consumers who may be looking at that £429 outlay and thinking, should I do it now? Should I spend that money?It's too easy to overlook this as a games writer, when you're fooling about shouting at Kinect, getting it to fulfil its stated requirements. I'm not even sure how many users are swept along on the biometric dream of a machine that recognises and understands their face and voice. When Cara Ellison and I made our video about Xbox One, we did so with enthusiasm and interest, but Cara was also concerned,genuinelyconcerned, about the implications for privacy. We're not just putting our data out there now, but our heart rates, our physical being. Others will worry too.In these early days, you have to separate ambition and reality, hype and hubris. I've had fun moments so far, but… something is lacking. Kirk Hamilton'sexcellent review on Kotakugoes into the intricacies of elements such as snapping apps to the side of games, and the arduous nature of attempting to record game footage via your controller rather than Kinect voice commands – it is worth a read because he captures both the wonder of the idea and the frustration of the reality, and he does it in the sort of detail I couldn't in my review.Interestingly, too, Kotaku rated Xbox One as 'not yet', with the following explanation:"All Kotaku reviews that carry a "Not Yet" are intended to eventually end up as a "No" or "Yes". For a console, that will happen if/when the system either proves hopeless or winds up having some must-play, must-own games"I wanted the 3/5 to do the same thing. It is a 'not yet', partly meaning that what we're all assessing here is an incomplete article that will need several more major updates. But for me it's also 'not yet' meaning, gamers should wait a bit if they can, see how things develop, see how the crucial multiplayer experience shapes up – and yes, see what PS4 is like.I know my review has a positive tone, but it is positive about the things that Xbox One always had to get right – and now I want to see those things applied to amazing new games. I want to spend a heck of a lot more time with it and learn every nuance. I want to review it again – and I will – in a month. I will do the same with PS4.I thought about the score for hours. I spoke to other writers, other Guardian contributors, I spoke to the tech team here at the Guardian. I agonised over it as the newsdesk begged for a final decision. It is a crazy thing to have to do. I care about this stuff, I felt sick over it. For me the process is like reviewing a car on the look of it and the sound of the engine, without ever hitting the accelerator. But a score was needed, and a score will be needed next week for Sony's machine.So yes, I am excited by this technology, I think Microsoft has some amazing plans. But I can't score plans. This, to me, is a solid start. I've had to mark it like that.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNine myths about wearable computers &gt;&gt; InformationWeekThere's no easy way to boil these down. If you're interested in wearables, have a look; they all ring true.Why American Airlines chose Galaxy Notes over iOS devices | CITEworld[Lisa] Canada [American Airlines managing director of operations technology] said AA tested a number of devices, starting in early spring 2012. "We reviewed iOS and other Android tablets and PDAs, in addition to proprietary devices from third party vendors that responded to the RFP [request for proposals]. A proof of concept test was started in February 2012 and final device selection was made in September 2012," she said.They chose the Galaxy Note (the original, not the more recent Note II) for a variety of reasons. "Our flight attendants felt that it was easy to handle and store, while providing great readability. The Galaxy Note also fits nicely in the palm of the hand, to allow easy mobility while moving about the aircraft. It also enabled us to make customizations to fit our needs," Canada told me.American's IT department also like the fact that the devices are equipped with Samsung's SAFE (Samsung for Enterprise) software to help them manage device usage.Rollout of 17,000 by June.The New Threat: Targeted Internet Traffic Misdirection - RenesysFor years,we've observedthat there was potential for someone to weaponize the classicPakistan-and-Youtubestyle route hijack. Why settle for simple denial of service, when you can instead steal a victim's traffic, take a few milliseconds to inspect or modify it, and then pass it along to the intended recipient?This year, that potential has become reality. We have actually observed live Man-In-the-Middle (MITM) hijacks on more than 60 days so far this year. About 1,500 individual IP blocks have been hijacked, in events lasting from minutes to days, by attackers working from various countries.Don't tell the NSA, they'll-- oh.How Snapchat will make money &gt;&gt; Business InsiderTL:DR: advertising and virtual goods. Yes, it really is a Business Insider story which is TL:DR.Europe's bid to end roaming charges &gt;&gt; BusinessweekWhen a Londoner takes a trip to Paris, two and a half hours away by train, his phone bill soars. A 20-minute call home costs £5 ($8). Texting a photo is 60 pence (96¢). Ten minutes of Google Maps is £2.76. All these services would be free had he just stayed put.That's a big reason business is declining for telecommunications companies, according to European Commissioner Neelie Kroes, who is in charge of strengthening the European Union's wireless services. She says roaming charges cause consumers to use their phones less—which hampers business and limits economic growth. (Although some rules are set by country authorities, the EU can determine roaming policy.)Though couldn't that Londoner - and female ones too, and people from all over Britain - just buy a data bundle from their carrier?M&amp;S uses instore IT to train staff in multi-channel retail &gt;&gt; Computer WeeklyMarks &amp; Spencer is using instore iPads and kiosks to train staff to support its multi-channel retail strategy.Speaking at the Forrester Forum for customer experience professionals, Jo Moran, head of customer service at M&amp;S, said the retailer was working to differentiate in an online, multi-channel world.As Computer Weekly haspreviously reported, M&amp;S has introduced iPads and large touchscreen displays within its shops to bring the online experience into the store.These not only allow customers to browse and buy products, but also enable staff to check stock levels.Probably iPad 2s running LOB (line of business) apps. Simple, cheap, light, and no need for a zillion Windows apps. This is where Microsoft's problem lies in its tablet strategy.Internet cafes in the developing world find out what happens when everyone gets a smartphone – QuartzInternet cafes across the developing world are reporting dwindling numbers of customers as smartphones make the mobile web ubiquitous. After all, why pay for web access on someone else&amp;#8217;s creaky old PC when you can peruse Facebook on your Android device from anywhere you like?In Rwanda, a cafe ownertold the New Timeslast month that he once had 200 customers per day; now he sees about 10. Internet cafes in India arealso suffering—some in the southern city of Mysore haveopted to sell stationery or sweetsinstead of web access, while others have diversified their offerings to include flight bookings, mobile phone top-up cards, and accessories for various gadgets. Cafes in Thailand seem to be facingsimilar challengeswhen it comes to customer volume, and even cyber cafes in Myanmar, wheremobile penetration is just 4%, say visitors havefallen sharply.Avoid SSDs for important files, says data recovery firm &gt;&gt; PC ProIf your data's important to you, store it on a mechanical hard disk rather than an SSD.That's the advice of Phil Bridge, managing director of data recovery specialist Kroll Ontrack."My wife asked me if she should buy a laptop with spinning media or solid-state storage," he told PC Pro at the company's UK premises in Epsom. "Honestly, I'd go with spinning media right now. Because I know that if something goes wrong, and we don't have a backup, that's going to be easier and cheaper to recover.""If something goes wrong and we don't have a backup"?? Remind us which company he works for again?Drone Imagery for OpenStreetMap | MapBoxBobby Sudekum:Last weekend we captured 100 acres of aerial imagery at 4cm resolution. It took less than an hour to fly, and it was easy to publish the imagery on the web usingTileMilland then trace inOpenStreetMap. Autonomous flying platforms likeSensefly's eBeepaired up with a nimble software stack are changing aerial mapping. Drones like the eBee can cheaply and accurately photograph medium-sized areas, and then the imagery can be made immediately available to everyone.Fantastic work (and there's a video too).You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday – the day before Xbox One! Are you excited?!
The internet&apos;s main governing body for the control of domain names has indicated a further shift away from its US roots as it gears up for a London meeting in December to discuss internet governance.In a press conferenceheld in Buenos Aires, Argentina, chief executive of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann) Fadi Chehadé publicly stated that the internet governance debate, while brought to public attention by the Snowden revelations, is nothing new and has been going on for years within Icann.Chehadé said that “it has always been envisaged, including written into the founding agreements, that the special relationship between Icann and US government will become more global in the future, and less focused on one government. So there’s nothing new here.”&apos;The solution is not to replace one government with another&apos;Chehadé went to great lengths to express that the internet governance issue would not be rushed and that a transition away from a single government link is the way forward.“The solution is not to replace one government with another. Our number one priority is security, stability and resiliency, and that will never be compromised by rushing.“We will do it properly, we’re not going to take any aspect of internet governance in a blasé way,” he said.That’s not to say the Snowden revelations have not had an impact on Icann’s “ecosystem”. Chehadé said it was of paramount importance that Icann and global internet governance was “headed to a future where all people, governments, businesses, civil society, technical organisations to feel that together they have an equal footing,” what Icann calls a multi-stakeholder model where everyone who uses the internet has an input into how it is governed.By moving meetings around the world, in this case to Argentina, Icann is specifically aiming for more geographic diversity within the greater internet conversation, something it is promoting with its new generic top-level domain (gTLDs) – the final part of the internet address that would normally be “.com”, “.co.uk”, “.org” or similar. New gTLDs include “.TECHNOLOGY”, “.LIGHTING” and many others, including gTLDs in Arabic, Cyrillic, Chinese and other non-Roman languages.‘Trust in global internet has been punctured’Tensions between Brazil and the US have been high since the Snowdon revelations. President Dilma Rousseff has publicly accused the US of breaching international law, and announced plans for a national secure email service, an alternative internet infrastructure that will mean data cables are not routed through US soil, and updates to the marco civil legislative bill to tighten domestic cybersecurity.After a meeting with Rousseff this month thatsaw Brazil agreeing to host a summiton internet governance in Rio in April 2014, Chehadé said, &quot;the trust in the global internet has been punctured. Now it&apos;s time to restore this trust through leadership and institutions that can make that happen.&quot;However, today Chehadé dismissed suggestions that the Brazil meeting is purely at the behest of Rousseff, angered over pervasive surveillance by the US government, reiterating that internet governance has been on Icann’s agenda for years.Chehadé stressed that the meeting currently underway in Buenos Aires is will not see any new ratifications or directives, and that it is purely designed to get attendees talking about the issues of gTLDs and internet governance ahead of next year’s meetings.• Brazil leads the charge to create an alternative internet infrastructure overNSA furore that has roots in US internet imperialism
An Indonesian hacker has claimed responsibility for shutting down the Australian federal police website on Wednesday night. The Reserve Bank of Australia’s site was also attacked.The AFP is unsure how long thesitewas down for and a spokeswoman said staff had discovered the attack in the early hours of Thursday morning, Australian time.The cyber attack comes as tensions with Indonesia continue to rise after Guardian Australia and the ABC revealed Australiamade attempts to tap the phones of Indonesia’s president, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, his wife and other confidants in 2009.AnIndonesian hackerwith the group Anonymous claimed credit for the attack on Twitter and said theReserve Bank’s websitehad been down about 3am Australian time.She used the hashtag #IndonesianCyberArmy in some of her tweets.“I’m ready for this war!” she said, after claiming the AFP and RBA sites were down.An RBA spokeswoman said the site had been the subject of a “denial of service attack” but protection systems had successfully deployed.Some users may have experienced delays but there were no outages on the site. “The bank’s websites and systems remain secure,” she said.The AFP said it was taking the attack “very seriously” but there was no sensitive information hosted on the site.“The AFP website is not connected to AFP IT systems,” a statement said. “The AFP website is not hosted by AFP ICT infrastructure. It is hosted by a third-party hosting provider.”The force said it was not at liberty to name the provider. It warned it was a criminal offence to attack the website.The AFP is working with the Cyber Security Operations Centre and Australia’s Computer Emergency Response team to identify the hackers.On Wednesday Yudhoyono announced Indonesia wouldrefuse to co-operate on people smuggling operationsuntil he received a satisfactory explanation from Australia.
More than 150m people are using Instagram to share photos from iPhone and Android smartphones. Now the Facebook-owned app haslaunched for Windows Phone.Caveats? It&apos;s missing a few of the features from those other versions, including the ability to upload and share videos. However, despite reports to the contrary, the appcantake photos.Well, at least the version of &quot;Instagram BETA&quot; for the Nokia Lumia 1020 that I&apos;m testing it on can take photos. Here&apos;s how it works on that device:There&apos;s been a lot of back-and-forth on Twitter about whether the ability to take photos is missing or not, and it appears even Instagram is confused: aspokesperson told Business Insiderthat &quot;You can add photos from your camera roll, but taking a photo with the in-app camera is not a capability as of now&quot;.As some people who&apos;ve watched the video above have remarked, that may be strictly true,if Instagram is pushing people out to the device&apos;s native camera app to take the photo, then pulling it back in for cropping. Even so, it will feel like you&apos;re taking a photo within the app to most users.Even more puzzling on the video front,Instagram&apos;s support websiteclaims that &quot;currently, people with Windows Phones can&apos;t upload or record video from the app, though you can still watch videos in your New Feed and on other places you seem [sic] them.&quot;Yet on the Windows Phone store listing for the app, one of the feature bullet points is &quot;Video recording with breathtaking cinematic stabilization&quot;. A feature that does appear to be missing in the actual app, although there&apos;s a greyed-out (and thus unresponsive) video button on the capture screen (that&apos;s it at the bottom right in the video above, when I&apos;m taking the snap).&quot;We wanted to make Instagram available to people with Windows Phones as quickly as possible, so we focused on creating an awesome experience with Instagram’s core features,&quot; explains the official Instagram blog post announcing the app&apos;s launch.&quot;We’re not finished, and our team will continue developing the Windows Phone app to keep releasing features and bringing you the best Instagram possible.&quot; Ensuring the support website and app store listing maintain a consistent (not to mention correct) line would be a good start.Instagram&apos;s debut on Windows Phone has been long anticipated. Nokia evenran a #2InstaWithLove campaignearlier in 2013 to persuade Instagram to port its app to Windows Phones, beforeannouncing that the app was on the wayat its Nokia World conference in October.Microsoft has also been lobbying for Instagram&apos;s arrival on Windows Phone, claiming today that it now has &quot;90% of the top 20 ranked apps across all platforms&quot;, with Twitter&apos;s Vine video-sharing app also having recently launched for Windows Phone.
Google’s Chrome browser is fast, secure and free, but it can be made a whole lot better with some free extensions that boost almost any aspect of browsing from tab management to fixing up Facebook.As Google’sChrome developers summitkicks off later today, the time is ripe to look at some of the best extensions for getting the most out of your daily browsing.TabCloudTabCloud clips tabs and lets you sync them across machines.Tabs were one of the best inventions in modern browsing, but they have become a burden, spewing forth like bees from an angry hive. They often get so numerous that it is hard to find the one you need, and only prayer is left if one of the multitude starts autoplaying an annoying video. They also eat up system resources – both RAM and disk swap space – reducing battery life and slowing your computer.TabCloudis the answer – it allows you to save a load of tabs to a cloud syncing service so you can open them at another time or on another computer with one click. It is easy to use, efficient and free.The Great SuspenderThe Great Suspender suppresses tabs in the background to reduce the load on your computer.An alternative to TabCloud,the Great Suspendertackles mountains of tabs by actually suspending them within the browser. The free extension effectively kills the tab while leaving it within your browser window with the favicon and webpage title still visible.In doing so it reduces Chrome&apos;s demands on your computer, while maintaining all those tabs for easy access. The tab is reloaded when you click anywhere within the page, restoring it as normal. (If you&apos;re offline, it will pull what it can from Chrome&apos;s cache.)Tabs can be suspended after a period of inactivity, or suspended manually, while certain tabs can be whitelisted to avoid them being suspended at any time.Search and replaceSearch&nbsp;and Replace does what it says on the tin.As the browser becomes the main place where we write things, a couple of key features that exist within word processors, which browsers don’t natively have, are starting to leak through. One of them isSearch and Replace, whichdoes what it says on the tin – searches a text field and replaces matching words with text of your choosing.It&apos;s simple, effective, and a serious timesaver if you happen to have spelled someone’s name wrong in a dissertation written in Google Docs, for instance.GingerGinger easily sorts out terrible spelling and grammar.Most of the communication that goes on across the internet is still text based, regardless of how pervasive video and internet audio calling has become. To save you being embarrassed by slightly more than simple typos,Gingerchecks spelling plus 30 types of grammatical errors based on the context of your writing.It is free, simple to use, and should sort out even the most hashed-up text to leave you looking like Shakespeare in a world of internet monkeys.Adblock PlusA screenshot from an Adblock Plus promotional video. Photograph: Video screenshot.There’s no doubt some sites go completely overboard with spammy adverts, covering their pages with blinking, flashing, annoying distractions.Adblock Plusis the extension to change that.It nukes all advertising by default, but allows you to both permit advertising from sites you want to support (maybe the ones that give you lists of useful Chrome extensions?) and also allows “acceptable ads” through the filters – a controversial feature that hasbeen labelled a “shakedown” by some publishers,as the developer demands a chunk of advertising revenue for whitelisting their advertising.LastPassLastPass remembers your complex passwords and logins so you don't have to.Account security is a hot topic right now, with databases of passwords being leakedleft,rightandcentre. But using different passwords for everything and actually being able to remember them is hard, and that’s where LastPass comes in.A Chrome extension with add-ons or apps for almost every other browser and platform,LastPassis a cloud-based password manager. It stores all your passwords and login details, and syncs them securely between browsers and even mobile devices, allowing you to use random 24-character passwords without having to remember them all individually.LastPass is free to use, but a premium option allows you to use two-factor authentication and a mobile app, should you need it.HTTPS EverywhereHTTPS Everywhere makes it easier to secure your browsing whenever possible.From the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Tor project,HTTPS Everywherehelps protect your browsing by encrypting your communications with major websites.The Chrome extension, a port of a Firefox add-on that’s currently in beta, HTTPS Everywhere essentially enables the secure form of standard browsing denoted by the “HTTPS” in your address bar wherever possible.Most sites offer some sort of HTTPS support, but it can be difficult to use and mixed with insecure parts of the site. The free extension fixes that by re-writing your browser clicks on-the-fly to always request secure access.Minimalist for EverythingMinimalist for Everything reduces web clutter and strips sites like Gmail back to just what's needed.If you think the web is looking a bit cluttered these days,Minimalist for Everythingis the extension for you. It allows you to customise elements within popular web apps, such as Gmail, hiding extras like the app bar and reducing wasted space within the user interface.Minimalist for Everything goes further than that, however, and allows users to write their own little snippets of code to hide or add anything to particular sites. More modules are on the way, including for Google+, Google Calendar and LastPass.Social FixerSocial Fixer enhances and removes irritations from Facebook.If Facebook drives you nuts but you just have to use it,Social Fixeris here to try and save your sanity.It can filter your News Feed, hiding stories by keyword, author or application – say goodbye to Candy Crush updates – as well as organise it better into tabs for grouped posts and give you ultimate control over the way Facebook looks and works.The free extension will even fix some of the most annoying things about Facebook, such as constantly switching back to “Top Stores” instead of the most recent posts, despite you telling it precisely not to.
This week on the podcast, the Guardian's head of technology,Jemima Kiss, sits in for Aleks Krotoski.Jemima is joined by the Guardian tech team, reporters Alex Hern andSamuel Gibbsand the Guardian's telecoms correspondentJuliette Garside. The team discuss this week's Guardian exclusive byNick HopkinsandMatthew Tayloron thegrowing availabillity of mass surveillance technologies on the commercial market. Also the team discuss why filesharing crackdowns are driving mainstream users towards the darker reaches of the net and why BitTorrent accussed Netflix of being bandwidth hoggers.Finally the Guardian'sJason Phippsfinds out about a new peer-2-peer file transfer app available in Facebook calledPipe. Its CEOSimon Hosselltook part in this year's TechCrunch Disrupt conference in Berlin, whilst there he told the Guardian why Pipe is trying to take on the might of WeTransfer and Dropbox.
With the PlayStation 4 already out in North America and the Xbox One arriving in major territories on Friday, the console war has begun. But what does that even mean in this age of smartphones, cheap gaming PCs and Steam Machines? And will it all lead to more interesting games?To find out, we spoke to a group who have been at the very centre of the next-gen publicity skirmish: indie developers. While in the past, console manufacturers fought to sign exclusive deals with huge Triple-A publishers, the success of the indie sector has focused attention on smaller offbeat studios. Here, Sony and Microsoft hope to find projects that can be grown cheaply, from tiny operations to major franchises. Everyone wants the next Minecraft.Joining me for this discussion are:Adam Saltsman: Creator of formative 'endless running' game Canabalt, as well as smartphone puzzler and intriguing new tunnel/puzzle game,Grave.Dan Marshall: UK indie responsible for comedic adventure Ben There, Dan That and brilliant PC shooter Gun Monkeys.Caspar Field:Ex-Edge Magazine writer, now game developer and co-founder of Brighton-basedWish Studios, working on unannounced projects.Brian Provinciano:Creator of excellent GTA parody,Retro City Rampage, now working on unannounced new titles.Byron Atkinson-Jones:UK industry veteran, ex-Lionhead, EA and Sega, now founder ofXiotex Studios.Massimo Guarini:Ex-Grasshopper Manufacture, now founder ofOvosonico, currently working on much-anticipated PlayStation title,Murasaki Baby.Martin Hollis:Ex-Rare designer and co-creator of Goldeneye, now working on smaller indie projects.So what do you think about the next-gen console 'war' so far? How do you think the machines have been positioned?Dan Marshall:Oh, isn't it tedious? Wouldn't it be just lovely if one of them had the balls to just stand up and say, "yeah, their bit of kit looks pretty sweet, I'm sure several people will get a kick out of it" and just be a little bit more grown-up about it all? Instead it feels like everyone is involved in this constant pointless sniping and awful back-and-forth and it all just comes across as really juvenile.The consoles look great! The games look great! It would be amazing to be able to relish the moment and wallow in some exciting new technology and upcoming entertainment, but unfortunately it's all coming loaded with all this woolly, drab bullshit around it.Adam Saltsman:From inside the weird and cozy indie bubble it sure feels like Sony is "winning" to me, but I am not really sure whether that is even remotely an accurate taking of temperature of what's going on in the real world. The weird thing is that when it comes down to it, I'm pretty hard pressed to point out any substantial differences at all between the XBox One and the PS4, but I think there are a lot of small things that Sony is doing that are adding up, and I think the Steamboxes are going to take a bite out of Xbox's pie too, especially on the hardcore gamer end of the spectrum.I keep saying this, and I am sure I will regret it in a year, but I think Sony is going to completely dominate the the sort of "living room console" space, but NOT with the PS4. They'll do it with the Vita TV. I think it's going to be the second coming of the PS2, basically, especially if they can beef up their basic PSN services a bit. But, to be totally clear, I am a guy who doesn't get out much and lives in a strange game-making world of his own imagination, so take all this with a grain of salt the size and color of a 1980s VCR …Brian Provinciano:From what I've heard with retailer murmurs, the PS4's still ahead. In fact, there's a game store here having a midnight launch for PS4 but not Xbox One due to low preorders. I'm not shy to admit that I'm rooting for the PS4, but Microsoft's putting a lot of money into marketing.Massimo Guarini:I think Sony has an undeniable advantage, and not for the hardware or the technical specs of the console itself, but for the way it managed to establish meaningful relationships with new creators and new development studios. Sony is not just shopping around for new games, they truly believe in what they're buying into.Caspar Field:With Nintendo now clearly in another market segment, this is a phoney war, and I think both PS4 and Xbox One will sell well. Sony has positioned PS4 as the more exciting contender, and I love that, because it is back to the roots of the PlayStation brand – edgy, developer-focused, and a home for innovative gameplay.Byron Atkinson-Jones:In previous generations, the so-called console war was quite clearly defined but this time it's less so. The technology leap is not that great, so this time it's more about services and as such the target market is a bit vague. Is the Xbox One aimed at gamers or the TV market? Microsoft is branching out and making the Xbox One a broader entertainment device rather than just a games console. PS4 is the only console that appears to actually be aimed at the gamer and this could have implications on its survival beyond this current iteration.Martin Hollis:Sony and Microsoft have engineered good machines, but they represent the most uninspiring next-generation ever. As a game creator, I find Xbox One and PlayStation about as exciting as washing machines. For clarity, I am not a fan of washing machines. I do not cherish a hitherto secret penchant for white goods, although I understand and appreciate that they perform an important service to us all.Get your pulse racing? Game developer Martin Hollis finds the Xbox One and PS4 about as exciting as washing machines. Photograph: Phil Noble/PADo you see in the architecture of these consoles – or in features like motion control or cloud computing – any interesting new prospects for game design?AS:I really, really, really don't think so. I hope I'm wrong and somebody makes something so obviously amazing – like Wii Sports – that I change my mind, but there are some significant obstacles to making that happen.DM:I think Steam's controller is probably the most exciting bit of tech, does that count? It seems to me to be a kind of evolutionary leap, taking everything that's ace about controllers and really doing something different with it for the betterment of playing games.CF:I love the Share button on the PS4's controller – what a statement of intent! On the Xbox side, I produced Kinect Nat Geo TV for the 360, and so am super interested in the potential of the new Kinect – and that it ships with every single One. Our studio, Wish, is all about games that bring people together, and so both of those features are right up our street.BP:The development tools are much better, which makes developing games easier, which means we can focus on the game itself and are less detracted by battling technical issues. That's the biggest thing. The PS4's controller does indeed also have some features which could create cool game experiences. I've seen demos which use the shake, touch, vibration and speaker together to great effect, even to me, someone content with standard controllers experiences. It all needs to make sense for the game though. For example, doing the 3DS port of Retro City Rampage, I explored potential touch screen additions to the existing game by prototyping new aiming methods, shooting methods, HUD features and so forth. Some worked well, some didn't. Those which didn't, I'm leaving out of the final version. It's important to think clearly about whether or not a new feature truly adds something to your specific game experience or not.BAJ:The architecture of the PS4 is the most exciting to me. Not because it's revolutionary, but because for once Sony appears to have not gone done the deliberately obscure hardware route and has instead adopted a more conventional PC-based system. Having worked on all the Sony platforms to date, this is going to make a refreshing change – less pain medication required as you struggle to make the best use out of the hardware. It should also lessen the impact of trying to make cross-platform games.Also, I really like the idea of exploring different ways of interacting with games rather than just the usual joypads. It also possibly opens up the market to a lot more than just the usual gamers. When the Wii came out, my parents came over to visit and saw us playing Wii Sports. That afternoon they went out to buy a Wii for themselves, which was incredible because they are not gamers at all and always viewed them as a waste of time. I can see my 92-year-old father-in-law being able to control a game with voice controls more than I can a joypad. We not only have a possibility to come up with imaginative ways to control games, but also open them up to a wider audience that maybe don't have the capability to use the current methods. If anything I'd like to see even more diversity in controls – such as eye tracking.MG:Game design has nothing to do with the hardware in my opinion. When coming up with a new concept, I never think of the console the game will run on. In my experience, the quality of the game is never dictated by the capabilities of the machines, even though it is undeniable that some new features or technologies may lead to new ideas and of course even new constraints, which are always good for creativity.Technology for me is a transparent tool. Cloud or not, persistent or not, a bad game is just a bad game. New technologies, and the media buzz associated with them, has the magical power to turn any mediocre/bad game into some must-buy masterpiece just because everyone is so excited about the technology itself. You see, I hate it when I feel our industry is still so dependent on and chronically attached to technology. It is obviously understandable because of its very nature; nevertheless, think about how much more focused on content quality everybody would be if they were not to deal with new gadgets every month or so.DM:I maintain that motion controllers are brilliant tools that could really enhance game experiences if used properly. You could detect if a player is frustrated, or tired, or if their partner has suddenly started talking over an important cutscene. You could custom build content based on their body language, or react to how they're playing the game! Instead, all we've seen so far is waving and waggling, and that's not for me. I'd love to see the tech used in a clever way.MH:I sometimes suspect Microsoft are targeting their machine at television executives who like dogs, and who think there should be a CCTV in every living room. It is an aggressive strategy to make the living room soluble and transparent to 21st-century panopticism.Sony's positioning is more conservative, lacking the complete embrace of the possibilities of the internet, information flow and surveillance, but it continues to represent Trojan horse strategy and is '360-degree commissioning' friendly.But the idea of the cloud as a venue for persistent online worlds is quite interesting, no? That could have a genuine impact on design …BAJ:The idea of the cloud technology is the one thing that does excite me about the next generation and was the primary reason I was looking forward to working on the Xbox One. To have some kind of technology in place that allows me as a developer to create huge persistent worlds gets the creative juices flowing and I have lots of game ideas for it. In reality though, as a coder I'd want to know just what's involved in it and are there extra costs – i.e. do you have to rent that processing power like you do with Amazon EC2?CF:I've long wanted to build a completely 'drop-in' game world, where AI characters can be possessed, Matrix-style, by human players, at any time. We talked about doing it when I was working at a publisher back in 2006, with a title we were thinking about building. So yeah, I would love to experience that kind of game, and all the crazy ambiguity about identity that it might create.DM:As someone who generally plays and loves single-player, story-driven games, the idea of persistent worlds kind of freaks me out a little bit. I'd havelovedthe idea when I was younger, some sort of persistent Elite or Batman world where you need to be there or it all goes to pot. These days … eh, I don't like the idea of being penalised in a game because I've got to spend the weekend away from my console.The next-gen consoles will utilise connectivity and cloud as a venue for persistent online worlds. Photograph: William Whitehurst/CorbisWhy do you think indies have been courted so deliberately by both manufacturers? Is this a PR thing, or is there a genuine desire to support offbeat talent and ideas?AS:That's a really good question. I think there are a lot of things going on here. I know there are people within both organisations that are deeply, emotionally passionate about weird games. Chris Charla, who is heading up ID@XBox, just loves this stuff. Nick Suttner, Zach Wood and other Sony staff on both sides of the Pacific I think have a genuine love of indie weirdness as well. There is definitely support from above that is really pure.At the same time, there is a kind of practical, almost cynical benefit to indie games for these consoles … I think it was someone from Sony who explained, maybe accidentally, that indie games were at least partially a way to release games more than a few times a year. If consoles were pure AAA right now, you'd rarely get anything new to play. Games take too long to make now, and cost too much. So being able to release a new indie game or a few new indie games every week or every month allows the consoles to kind of … ugh … continue serving their customers new products or whatever, in between the big holiday releases. So yeah, I think there are a lot of dynamics at play in these decisions. The good thing is that all this stuff seems to be serving independent developers really well right now, which I see as pretty win-win.CF:I suspect that the whole 'supporting indies' thing started as a nice idea that someone at Sony thought of, to attract small developers back to console from mobile, and then it just fucking exploded in this huge game of PR ping pong. But hey, as an indie developer, I ain't complaining!BP:I can say from my experience working with Nintendo, Sony and Valve that it's absolutely genuine. Dan Adelman of Nintendo, the whole PlayStation crew I work with, and those I work with at Valve are among the most genuine people in the industry. They live and breathe indie games and want to help indies succeed. Just as importantly, they've been warm and welcoming to me from the beginning, years before this big indie support movement, before my game had won awards, before I'd made a name for myself in the indie scene, and most of all, before it was even a topic in the press. Microsoft on the other hand, I've had a different experience with.MG:I think this is the inevitable course of any entertainment industry. It already happened in movies. It is constantly happening in the music business. It's not a matter of genuine desire to support offbeat talent, it's rather the necessity to renew the offer, cater to an expanding audience, and renew the menu. New ideas are the vital blood of any market. And what we now call the "indies" is nothing but the new generation of creators that will redefine the market in the future. And this will happen for every generation. If I were a publisher with any sort of long-term agenda in the business, I would court those creators.It seems the idea of social connectivity is big with the new machines – the idea of getting friends to play together, rather than strangers on a vast public lobby. Do you think this has any ramifications for game design – will multiplayer experiences change, or move on from endless death matches?DM:Ha ha. Well I tried it with Gun Monkeys and it just didn't wash! The game was designed and set up to be played against friends, that you'd invite someone to play, meet up and play some rounds, but that was just too alien a concept. People want to swan onto a server at 3am and get a game with a complete stranger. If thatisa movement the console manufacturers are after, I suspect there's a lot of work to be done changing the average gamer's mindset.AS:I don't really see a huge shift coming there, but I think these social features could be huge for streaming, casting, e-sports, etc. I'm hoping and expecting to see that whole thing basically explode on home consoles and I'm really, really excited about it.MG:I don't think social connectivity will radically change multiplayer experiences. People like to play with friends as well as with perfect strangers. One thing won't necessarily exclude the other. What I'm more worried about is that social gaming is proving to be the most anti-social form of gaming interaction ever experienced. The exhilarating beauty of LAN parties or split-screen multiplayer experiences lay in the fact you could actually interact with real people, in the same room, you could see their reactions, touch them, joke around and laugh.Social connectivity brings all that into the virtual world, adds anonymity if you want it, turns you into a solitary person who believes they have thousands of friends. Technology is not always the right answer. Even though we have Facebook, who said I am not interested as a player to play with my buddies in a room? Well guess what, that's not trendy anymore. As an industry, we are sadly addicted to mutual exclusivity: a sort of immature teenage mind-set that has us believing there is no room for two different approaches in our business. Well this is probably the biggest mistake we could possibly do, paving the way to a bubble-prone economy where the only merit allowed is to be the first.Social connectivity can actually turn the gamer into a solitary person, says Massimo Guarini. Photograph: AlamyIs there mileage in this whole idea of, ugh, 'mingleplayer' - the integration of single and multiplayer modes (a la Destiny)?AS:There's a lot that I'm looking forward to, though I'm not sure how much of it is truly next-gen, whatever that means. I think Titanfall looks like a blast. Like everyone else, I'm eagerly awaiting The Witness and Below, but also stuff like Galak-Z, Samurai Gunn, and the new Infamous, off the top of my head.BAJ:From a technical point of view, I can imagine this being a bit of a pain to get right. Games will have to be built with this capability in right from the start. It will also affect the design. Could you imagine a really emotional scene and suddenly a friend pops in and says, "wotcha" – it would be a bit of an anti-climax. Games would have to be made such that it doesn't matter if somebody pops in and out of a game. It should be interesting to see what people come up with.BP:The biggest successes in regards to friends playing together seem to be asynchronous games, whereas, you don't play at the same time. We're often busy people and being able to play with our friends at our own pace opens the doors for more of us to end up playing together.MG:I think this whole new "mingleplayer" thing is one of the most interesting and challenging approaches to online gaming ever conceived. Probably my favourite example of superbly executed mingleplayer is Journey. Mingleplayer is all about the experience and, as such, I believe we will definitely see more and more engaging examples of this approach in the new generation of games created by younger designers who couldn't care less about discussing the difference between single-player, multiplayer and mingleplayer.With indies being enthusiastically approached by Sony and Microsoft, and lots of interesting smaller projects on the way, are you considering developing for the new consoles? What sort of thing?AS:Yes, definitely, I am involved with multiple projects that I hope to see on the new consoles. This has never been true before (laughs).BP:I've had a PS4 devkit for a long time, as well as Wii U. My next game will definitely be on PS4, PS Vita and Steam. I've done pre-production on a couple of new open-world titles, but am at a crossroads right now nailing down things such as the art direction, so it's very early.BAJ:I'd love to develop for PS4, the sheer raw power of the beast really appeals to the tech geek in me. I want to make use of its virtual texture capability to create vast procedurally generated worlds, stuff I can't currently do with the hardware available to me now. I still want to make simple games, but I'd love to explore more emergent gameplay, which is what that power would allow me to do. Sure, I can kind of do it now, but only a few with very powerful machines could experience it. With a console, you know everybody is working from the same starting line and has the same hardware, so it allows you to be more creative without having to worry about supporting lesser hardware.DM:I'm building my next game with consoles in mind, it'd be great to get it on them. There's something a bit magical and special about seeing your game running on a console, and the vast majority of indie games I've really enjoyed have been slumped on a sofa on a Sunday afternoon, I think indie games are really nicely placed for that setup.Can consoles still survive in a rapidly changing business where smartphones, tablets and smart TVs, and now Steam Machines, are threatening?AS:Oh, absolutely. I mean, name one video-game thing that died overnight. That said, yeah, I think both public and private perception that big powerful game consoles are still somehow the crux or core focus of videogames will go away over the next few years, but even with the Vita TV and iPad Whatever and Steamboxes, I don't see these cannibalising enough of the existing console audience to actually make these things go away. For a PS4 to make sense for Sony, I don't think it needs to sell 200m units or whatever. I don't really know the maths there though, maybe they will be ruined if they don't grow their audience by X% or whatever. I think it's crazy to count on that though.CF:Consoles offer something no other platform can match - a stable piece of hardware that allows developers to maximise the effort spent on building great games. Relatively, Android is an absolute nightmare; PC is helped by Steam, but is still fiddly; and even iOS now has multiple OS versions, screen sizes and hardware specs to build for. So I think that it would be a mistake to underestimate the appeal – for developers – of these new, fixed platforms, both of which are backed by large, focused companies with a huge motivation to make their new hardware succeed.BP:I really hope consoles survive. I'm a console gamer first, so I enjoy developing for them. The biggest risk comes from the decisions big publishers make and where they decide to put their money. We've already seen publishers swap their budgets previously used for XBLA titles to mobile titles. I admittedly stopped playing my DS once I got an iPhone. Despite preferring DS experiences, my iPhone was always with me and fit nicely in my pocket. It was pure convenience. However, once I got my PS Vita, I've almost entirely stopped playing iPhone games. The experience is so much better. It makes it worth it to carry the larger device with me.MG:Yes, consoles can definitely still survive along with tablets, smart TVs and what else will pop up in the future. Nothing is threatening. I believe the market is simply expanding and this is simply natural. As a young industry, we are not used to thinking in terms of expansion, that's why everything always boils down to a "this or that" approach, rather than a healthier "thisandthat".And because the market is expanding, ironically consoles may even have a larger customer base thanks to tablets and mobile devices: in a broader market, the 10% slice may end up bigger than the 100% slice of a smaller, niche market.BAJ:If anything, this generation will be the tipping point. In this regard, I think Microsoft made a smart move trying to make the Xbox One more attractive to the TV crowd. They are attempting to manoeuvre the Xbox franchise into something more than simply a games device, making it an all-round entertainment system. If they succeed, then they will cement their survival for at least one more iteration. Sony, however, has retained pure gaming at the heart of the PS4 and while that's a good thing, there isn't really much to differentiate it from the PS3 apart from more power. I'm not really convinced today that raw power is enough.MH:What I would like is a powerful computer which can play games, not a multimedia jack-of-all-trades which gets in my way. My needs are not being met here. I fear the user interfaces will be labyrinths of glistering advertising, festooned with social-media gimcracks, and that the focus of these corporations is dangerously diluted away from producing surprising, novel, fun games.What I wouldlovewould be a machine which supports an exciting new kind of interaction, and to see that interaction demonstrated with one or more great games around launch. I have yet to be persuaded there will be any truly new games or any new kinds of interaction from Sony or Microsoft, the best I think we can hope for is more of the same, only slicker, and with a bigger carbon footprint.Should you buy PS4 or Xbox One? Flip a coin. Then keep it in your pocket …
Up to 42 million peoples&apos; unencrypted names, dates of birth, email addresses and passwords have been stolen by hackers who broke into a company that runs niche online dating sites.Cupid Media, which runs niche online dating sites such as UkraineDate.com, MilitaryCupid.com and IranianSinglesConnection.com, was hacked in January but did not admit to the break-in until it was exposed by security researcher Brian Krebs.Cupid Media is not connected with OK Cupid, an American dating site.The data stolen from Cupid Media,which runs 35 dating sites altogether, wasdiscovered by Krebson the same server that housed user information stolen fromAdobe, who disclosed their breach earlier in November. But unlike Adobe, which used some encryption on the data, Cupid Media stored user data in plain text. As well as passwords, that includes full names, email addresses, and dates of birth.Cupid&apos;s managing director Andrew Bolton admitted to Krebs that the breach had occurred in January 2013. At the time, &quot;we took what we believed to be appropriate actions to notify affected customers and reset passwords for a particular group of user accounts,&quot; Bolton said. “We are currently in the process of double-checking that all affected accounts have had their passwords reset and have received an email notification.&quot;However like Adobe, Cupid has only notified active users who are affected by the data breach.In the case of the software giant, there were more than 100m inactive, disabled and test accounts affected, as well as the 38m to which it admitted at the time.Bolton told Krebs that &quot;the number of active members affected by this event is considerably less than the 42 million that you have previously quoted&quot;. He also confirmed that, since the breach, the company has started encrypting passwords using techniques called salting and hashing – an industry-standard safety measure which renders most leaks harmless.Jason Hart of Safenet commented: &quot;The true impact of the breach is likely to be huge. Yet, if this data had been encrypted in the first place then all hackers would have found is scrambled information, rendering the theft pointless.&quot;He added: &quot;Many companies shy away from encryption due to fear that it will be either too expensive or complicated. The reality is that it doesn’t have to be either. With hacking attempts becoming almost a daily occurrence, it’s clear that being breached is not a question of &apos;if&apos; but &apos;when&apos;. Although their motives may be different, a hacker’s ultimate goal is to gain access to sensitive data, so companies need to ensure they are taking the necessary precautions.&quot;He suggested that too many security departments are &quot;holding on to the past&quot; in their security strategy by trying to prevent breaches rather than safeguarding the data.As with other breaches, analysis of the leaked data provides some interesting information. Well over three quarters of the users had registered with either a Hotmail, Gmail or Yahoo email address, but some addresses hint at more serious security concerns. More than 11,000 had used a US military email address to register, and around 10,000 had registered with a US government address.Of the leaked passwords, almost two million picked &quot;123456&quot;, and over 1.2 million chose &quot;111111&quot;. &quot;iloveyou&quot; and &quot;lovely&quot; both beat out &quot;password&quot;, and while 40,000 chose &quot;qwerty&quot;, 20,000 chose the bottom row of the keyboard instead - yielding the password &quot;zxcvbnm&quot;.
A jury in Silicon Valley began its second day of deliberations on Wednesday in a trial to determine damages owed by Samsung for infringing on Apple&apos;s patents relating to iPhones and iPads.They asked the judge for calculators Tuesday to help determine how much Samsung owes for copying key features in 13 of its own phones and tablets sold in the US, after an earlier jury verdict in August 2012.The deliberations are the latest stage in the series of ongoing legal battles between the two electronics giants, which has seen both sides seek sales bans against the other in Europe, the US, Australia and the far east.Separately, Apple won an appeal court verdict on Monday which could mean that it will be able to enforce sales bans against a number of Samsung products for infringing functional patents - relating to how they work, not how they look - first used on the iPhone.The jury is trying to decide the additional damages owing to Apple after about $400m of a $1.05bn award made by the previous jury was voided. Apple will definitely receive at least $600m after the trial.Now though the jury must decide whether Apple should receive $52m - as Samsung contends - or $380m, as Apple says is the fair value of the damages it suffered for Samsung using features such as &quot;pinch-and-zoom&quot; for manipulating onscreen images and &quot;bounce back&quot; when scrolling past the end of onscreen lists.The deliberation is in effect the curtain-raiser for another, potentially bigger trial between the two sides scheduled for March 2014 in California. There, Apple will argue that Samsung&apos;s existing products infringe its patents.Judge Lucy Koh, the federal judge presiding over the patent trial, granted the jury&apos;s request before the smartphone rivals&apos; lawyers delivered their closing arguments. The one-week trial is being held to determine damages for 13 of the 26 devices that an earlier jury said Samsung infringed on Apple&apos;s patents. At the same trial the jury turned down all of Samsung&apos;s claims that Apple infringed on its own patents.The jurors deliberated for about four hours Tuesday and were scheduled to resume Wednesday morning.Judge Koh vacated part of the previous jury&apos;s damages award because she determined that they had miscalculated the amounts owing for 13 of the 26 products in the original trial.Apple&apos;s attempts to ban Samsung from selling some of the devices in question got a boost Monday. The US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, D.C., ordered Koh to reconsider Apple&apos;s demands that some of the products a jury found infringed Apple&apos;s patents be barred for sale in the United States.Koh in December turned down Apple, ruling that the company didn&apos;t prove that consumers bought Samsung devices instead of Apple devices because of the infringement.The appeals court told Koh to apply a different legal standard that favours Apple&apos;s arguments. The ruling could come into play next year if Apple prevails at trial and seeks another sales ban on the newer products.•Eric Schmidt, kittens and the inventive step: The smartphone patent wars explained
Experimenting with its users, Twitter has started pulling some higher profile features and adding others for specific subsets of tweeters.Having only rolled out a month ago, Twitter has removed the feature allowing anyone to send a private direct message to anyone else, even if they are not following each other.According to Twitter, the move is part of the new experiments that the company is carrying out using user data. Twitter is using small groups from its 200m-strong user base to test certain features before deciding whether or not to roll them out to the wider audience.&apos;You may see some features that your friend doesn’t see, or vice versa&apos;Twitter said that it has accelerated its experimental side, rolling out new tests to users almost on a daily basis, leveraging a new, more robust “experimental framework” that the company has built into its existing products.“So what does this mean for you? You may see some features that your friend doesn’t see, or vice versa. This is all in service of making Twitter the best it can be. We appreciate your help in doing that, so thank you,” said Alex Roetter, Twitter’s vice president of engineeringin a blogpost in September.A push into the personal messaging space?The direct messaging (DM) feature is one of the most high profile additions to fall under Twitter’s experimental testing, and could indicate that the company is looking at moving on DMs as a push into the personal messaging space currently dominated by WhatsApp and other text message replacement services.The company alsopushed out updates to its iOS and Android applicationsimproving search and adding filters to help find newer tweets, and to screen for pictures and videos, as well as changes to its “Discover” tab to improve trend discovery for TV shows and other news.• In November, Twitter allowed UK emergency services tosend out alerts via its mobile applications
In almost 40 years of my computer and video gaming, it's surprising how much and yet how little has changed. The way I play today is so similar to how I used to enjoy "TV games" when I was a kid. Families and friends would effectively pass back and forth small portions of play or compete where possible at variations of shooting galleries and sports, from monochrome block Tennis to Activision's joystick-busting Decathlon and Epyx's more sophisticated Games series … Naturally, locally sociable engagement, like the more traditional cards, dominoes or board games really.Now that I'm older, with a family of my own, my gaming tastes and opportunities have become far more … focused. I don't seem to have the time or inclination to commit to anything epic or too mature in its theme. Playing alone is seldom an option anyway – not like reading a book. Single-player games become group outings, because my intrigued offspring join me as an attentive and appreciative audience. We go on adventures together, with me as narrator, like reading a bedtime story (and with the same silly voice-overs, too). The kids play vicariously, perhaps even more appreciatively. I will never forget how upset they were the first time they discovered the fate of Pikmin who were left behind after dark.Less engaging experiences are made all the more dramatic and compelling when playing to an enthusiastic crowd. The ceremonies that pepper play are bolstered by natural, personal commentary and other bespoke feedback. As a result, I feel compelled to play to the gallery, and I stick with games in which I might otherwise have lost interest. All told, it's a lovely, unique way to spend time in another universe.Where possible we do play together, co-operatively as a preference, but otherwise taking turns and helping each other out with suggestions as appropriate. On the occasions we are competitive, I'm used to stage-managing performances, so I effectively end up playing compere and director behind the scenes, winning and losing – usually only just – to maximise drama for the greater good. I don't come over all Competitive Dad and mercilessly crush my progeny into the ground but equally they are sensitive to patronising play and can quickly lose interest.The party organiserA good party game effectively takes on the role of organiser for me so I don't have to play at playing. Moreover, all players should be able to hold their own – at least across the breadth of the game – and even when they don't, the games should be structured so that those falling behind have opportunities to rebound.You don't want to have to think too hard – to have to read or learn lots of rules or controls. You don't want to have to wait around. You don't want too much skill or luck to dominate and any one player pulling so far ahead they can never be caught. You want to feel like you are all playing together and all stand a chance of winning.As a family, we have played many different party games on every possible platform and few have held our mutual attention for long. UbiSoft's Rabbids series, for all its jolly novelty, soon ended up feeling like a list of chores. The Mario Party series has become increasingly long-winded and less captivating to play with every new iteration (or maybe it's always been like that and I only recently noticed). WarioWare – Smooth Moves in particular – was snappier, sillier and sassier than its peers, but the recent Wii U outing feels like it's taking a wrong turn. The original Wii Party was a favourite until the disc somehow got scratched beyond repair, but it wasn't so special that we felt the need to replace it.But now, from Nd Cube, the Nintendo team that gave us Wii Party and Mario Party 9 we have … Well, basically more of the same. It even looks, sounds and feels like Wii Party. It's an unassuming package that, curiously, seems to have encouraged a surge in Wii U sales in Japan.Traditionalist Nintendo are apparently struggling to fit in with a new gaming world order of extremes ranging from the equivalent of daytime TV to HBO cool. The erstwhile playing card company so often stands aone anachronism: a wooden toy maker in a modern world increasingly dominated by plastic electronic novelty (for the record I see value in both forms).NintendoersI confess that we are a family of Nintendoists. Nintendonians. Nintendoters. For the simple reason that they have consistently given us the best virtual tools we can use to make fun together. The Wii was a much-loved crowd-pleaser in this house – a contemporary piano to gather around for a singsong – and the Wii U has worked out just as well, if not better. Despite an increasingly inexhaustible avalanche of disposable cheap and free games across all other formats, for us it's the Wii and Wii U that have provided the most enduring value and hold the fondest memories, with the DS and 3DS a close second.It was a cold, wet weekend and just the excuse we needed for a PAR-TAY! Putting Wii Party U to the test were Daddy Gary (47), Daughter Daisy (11), Daughter Scarlett (eight) and Son Dexter (six). Mummy Melissa (43) prefers the likes of nonograms and hidden object games and gave a look of disdain when asked to join in the jollity.This means we have four players with distinctly mixed abilities and broad tastes: Gary the ageing hardcore gamer who's long lost his edge; Daisy, solid but not exceptional; Scarlett, erratic but sometimes spectacular; Dexter, capable beyond his years but still so young.Wii Party U offers four key ways to sample its 80-odd activities. The three main modes – TV Party, House Party and GamePad Party – each provide a different playscape focal point: your TV, your room and your Wii U GamePad. The Minigames option on the other hand simply offers seven alternative ways to appreciate a collection of over 50 minigames.TV Party is primarily a set of virtual board games, such as GamePad Island with echoes of Mario Party beneath its many novel methods of determining dice throws with the GamePad. Mii Fashion Plaza revolves around collecting costume sets to dress your Miis, which is fun for a short while, but takes far too long to conclude. The pace really can drag in these longer compilations, not least because of the sheer amount of ceremonial punctuation within each minigame and metagame as a whole.House Party is meant to turn your room into a video game playground. Instead, it has the effect of turning the Wii U into more of an elephant in the room. The eight games here are slightly more substantial than their mini stablemates and typically take the form of televisual gameshows, only two of which held our attention for any worthwhile time.Name that Face gave us the giggles as we took turns to capture a given description by striking a facial expression and taking a snapshot, leaving the others to choose from four possible answers that have similar likely interpretations. Is the food too hot? Are they trying to whistle a tune? Blow up a balloon? Or did they stub their toe?Sketchy Situation provides a nice twist on Pictionary et al. One of the players is given a different subject to quick-draw and everyone has to spot the odd one out: pilot not police officer; octopus not spider; watering can not magic lamp. The time pressure works wonders to make simple drawings more confusing.Limited gimmicksThe most gimmicky games are the ones that don't work as well (and those are mostly found in House Party). In Water Runners you use Wii Remotes to scoop water from the GamePad stream and take it to the TV jugs, whereas Fast Food Frenzy is a tame memory game in which you serve your customers their orders on the GamePad; in Folk Dance Fever you take your partners by the Wii Remotes to form a circle and follow the given moves. All very clever in theory but incredibly clunky and banal in reality.The dozen or so GamePad Party games are less sociable affairs for pairs, one either end of the controller, stick in hand to play competitively or cooperatively. Interestingly, much of this collection is presented as simulations of miniature machines inside the controller itself and reminded me of joyous times at Musée Mécanique in San Francisco. But as tactile and charming as these games are, they tend to feel insubstantial - in need of structural support and depth to give you reason to return.Tabletop Football is a little soggy but still a diverting foosball, whereas Tabletop Baseball is far more responsive, challenging and exhilarating: the pitcher flicks the stick to launch the ball at high speed and the batter needs lightning reactions to hit back. The game unfolds as a precision mechanical reenactment of the sport with the likes of moving holes in the roles of fielders.Curling Competition feels like Crossfire, only with the aim of having one of your shots closest to a target's centre when time's up. Guiding balls through obstacle courses in 'Tabletop Gauntlet' is reminiscent of playing Screwball Scramble. But as enjoyable as the three short courses are, they leave you hungry for more.We spent the most time playing metagames Spot the Sneak and Bridge Burners in the Minigames section. In Spot the Sneak, at the start of every minigame, one player is designated The Sneak by virtue of their Wii Remote not vibrating while everyone else's does. The Sneak is granted the power of perfect play by way of cheats. After the minigame everyone has to nominate who they think was The Sneak for possible bonus points. No one trusted anyone and everyone struggled to watch everyone else cheat while trying to win. The kids played cunningly here, often not making use of the cheats or pretending to cheat and verbally misdirecting to confuse each other.Bridge Burners is one of very few co-operative ways to play. Everyone's combined performance in the minigames determines if their Miis are strong enough to push over huge stones to bridge five chasms along a course. Working together was supremely satisfying, especially when one or more of us could compensate for any weak links in the chain, and we'd have preferred more opportunities like that.Scarlett turned out to be our secret weapon at Close Knit, which requires timely rocking of the Wii Remote to quickly knit as long a scarf as possible. Dexter turned into a demon with the surprisingly challenging and compelling 'One-Two Punch', which offers a simple choice between punching falling logs and catching dropped watermelons. Daisy was our 'Cliff Riders' champion, riding a unicycle precariously balanced atop a narrowing, winding clifftop racetrack high above the ground, tilting the Wii Remote like a highwire walker's pole to steer.Back to basicsPerhaps surprisingly, much of Wii Party U is played with standard Wii Remotes rather than taking advantage of the Wii U's distinctive GamePad or the more precise qualities of the Wii Remote Plus included in the bundle. But at least the controls are usually straightforward and involve little more than the timely pressing of a single button or furiously shaking the Wii Remote or pointing it; occasionally there's a need for four directions, too, but overall there's nothing overly taxing.The different activities vary in their skill and luck requirements. Some challenge your dexterity, timing or memory; others demand no discernible skill whatsoever yet provide no less entertainment. Hide-and-Go-Beak, for example, never failed to raise tension and nervous laughs. Each player picks a patch of grass to hide behind and then waits while an indignant ostrich struts around ominously, often wrong-footing everyone by paying close attention to one hiding place, escalating the drama before changing its mind and darting off to unleash hardy pecks on an unfortunate loser's head.Mad Hatter is a simple, stupid game of bluff, double bluff and blind luck. Everyone has to secretly select one of a handful of hats, slipping into changing rooms before emerging to proudly sport their choices. Anyone not wearing the same hat as anyone else, scores points. That's it. You know it's unpredictable but in the heat of the moment you can't help believing that cunning psychological strategy will keep you ahead of everyone else.Everyone deserves a second chanceThe games that work best have an element of luck and second chances. Like Mii Vaulters, which isn't just a matter of shaking Wii Remotes to run as fast as possible and timing your button press to launch your Mii from its pole - well, it is at first, but in flight you can shake the Wii Remote to desperately flap your arms and slow and extend your descent, which adds to the drama.'Safari Hustle' is a short race between animals including zebra, giraffe, rhinoceros and ostrich, each with a unique size, shape, regular speed, full speed and stamina. These stats make all the difference. You thrash the Wii Remote to whip the animal to go faster – at the expense of stamina. The speedy ostrich can race off ahead but lacks stamina, whereas the giraffe has lower running speeds but plenty of stamina (and more reach). It's so unpredictable, but feels skilful and ultimately finely balanced. What usually happens is that someone races ahead or ends up so close to the finish line only to misjudge their efforts and run out of puff to have someone else to steal the race at the last second. Rousing stuff.We came to Wii Party U like we'd discovered a long-lost toy chest in the attic. We ripped through it without due care and attention, quickly sampling everything in isolation. Then we went back and played everything properly until we got bored of some parts – although the likes and dislikes only added to the fun when they came up in the mix. We explored every nook and cranny, every individual game and every package, which in itself was a fun way to pass the time until everything settled down and our interest waned. I feel like we wore it out. We have been back to it since our first encounter, but not with quite the same fervour now the novelty's worn off.I tried games on my own, playing against artificial opponents. We also tried games on their own, outside of a metagame. They really do need human players in the same physical space (the minigames were best with four, but adequate with three) and within the context of a party package – the social interaction a party affords. The essential ingredient is people – real people, not those fake companions for lonely players.The games aren't really designed to be played on their own, over and over, consumed like salted peanuts or Pringles or fruit machines like so many apps today. No, these are moreamuse-bouche– or amuse-mains – served up at the host's whim. Actually, come to think of it, that better describes WarioWare; Wii Party U is a more clinical serving of crisps, jelly and ice cream.Wii Party U is basically Wii Party all over again. It's not great, but there's no denying the fact that we were entertained. We laughed a lot; the kids got competitive and occasionally argumentative and explosive when they couldn't immediately get to grips with some games or win. (No, really, honest, it was the kids …)It's easy to see how one could come down hard on Wii Party U. It's a mixed bag of tricks – a mess really, but an engaging one – in the right company at least. Wii Party U could be considered genre-defining only because it's as good as it gets right now; it feels like there's still so much more to be done with the format. Ultimately, if you have like-minded players at a loose end, it's a party worth attending. I'm sure we will be back for more over the festive season in between rinsing LEGO Marvel Super Heroes and Super Mario 3D World.Gary is a games developer, but was once a game journalist, one of the first in the UK, working on magazines such as  ZZap 64 and Computer &amp; Video Games
Microsoft&apos;s Xbox One console goes on sale at midnight on 22 November in the UK, as part of its wider global launch. It&apos;s going head-to-head with Sony&apos;s PlayStation 4 – as well as the newly Super Mario 3D Worlded-up Nintendo Wii-U – in the next-generation console battle.So, is it any good? The Guardian&apos;s games team is hard at work putting the Xbox One through its paces for a review, but in the meantime, other outlets have published their initial verdicts. And that&apos;s the trend across the board: a recognition that Xbox One at launch is still a work in progress, with plenty more evolution in store over the coming years for its features, services and games.Bouquets go to its familiarly-excellent controller; deeper integration of Kinect voice commands to control the system; the ability to flip quickly between TV and games, or do both simultaneously; the handy SmartGlass second-screen app for smartphones and tablets; and Skype video calls.Brickbats are flung at the console&apos;s launch lineup: some decent exclusives, but also some flawed titles; the fact that it costs $100 more than Sony&apos;s PS4; the delayed ability to stream your gaming feats live using Twitch; and the lack of backwards compatibility with Xbox 360.Broadly, though, the first reviews are very positive, while warning that unless you&apos;re a hardcore PlayStation or Xbox-phile, the sensible approach would be to wait a few months before deciding between them. Read on for some of the key verdicts on Xbox One, as it gets set for launch.Polygon (8/10)&quot;In many ways, the Xbox One&apos;s bold direction for the future is well in place. The integration of voice controls and its media strategy are a boon to everyone, and the ability to run apps while playing games is something we now want on every gaming console we have. That it has a handful of strong, exclusive games at launch only supports its legitimacy as a gaming console and not just an entertainment hub.The Xbox One is an impressive marriage of software and hardware that raises the bar in terms of what we expect from a living-room machine. Looking forward more than it looks back, the Xbox One feels like it&apos;s from the future.&quot;Pocket Lint (5/5)&quot;In the course of putting a finger in every pie, however, Xbox One will face many challenges: gamers who don&apos;t like the dilution, TV fans who feel the same way, AV enthusiasts who are left scratching their heads over exactly how it all fits together, while having to accommodate all the app needs from gaming, to TV, to everything else.But this is the first salvo in a assault on your living room. On day one, you&apos;re faced with a platform digging in for the future. This is the Xbox One.&quot;Gizmodo&quot;For now, the Xbox One is one impressive living room box machine—and it more than justifies its $500 dollar price with the inclusion of at least $100-worth of set-top boxitude—but you&apos;re going to be better off waiting for a little while to see how things shake out.But—and this is admittedly a sizable but—if the Xbox One can straighten the few little quirks it has with some software tweaks, this thing is going to be unstoppable in a way the PS4 could never touch. It&apos;s too versatile, too feature-ridden, too future.&quot;Joystiq&quot;The success of the Xbox One is largely dependent on what you need for the living room, and whether you intend to use the system for multiple forms of media, with multiple people in mind. The user interface feels cluttered at times, and it has a definite learning curve, but it&apos;s also easy to carve out a quick and comfortable groove for yourself as you jump between a game and a few different applications. The Xbox One&apos;s app-driven interface is full of possibilities, living alongside quirks to be learned or updated in future.&quot;TechCrunch (7/10)&quot;It’s important to stress that one key term: “Day One”. The current state of the Xbox One — and the PS4, for that matter — is quite likely very, very different from what the same consoles will look like when we all move on to the next next generation. Compare the Xbox 360 on Day One to the 360 today; from the games to the interface, it’s almost unrecognizable. Both Microsoft and Sony are laying the runway for the next few years, so make your decisions as progress unfolds.&quot;Boing Boing (8/10)&quot;If you need guidance, all I can suggest is to be patient. The Xbox One and the PS4 are similar, and both have unexciting launch titles. If you&apos;re not sure which to get, wait a week or two; see what games get good buzz from players as well as critics. If you&apos;re not sure whether to get either, there&apos;s no harm waiting until there&apos;s more to do with the next-gen consoles, period, before making a choice. And if you&apos;re waiting for validation on a decision you&apos;ve already made: go buy it already. The Xbox One is fine. 8/10! You&apos;ll be happy with it. Eventually.&quot;The Verge (7.8/10)&quot;Nearly everything that could be great someday isn&apos;t great right now. The Kinect is an incredible piece of raw machinery and engineering, but it&apos;s not implemented well into games, nor does its voice control provide a truly fast, seamless way to navigate the operating system. The TV integration is an awkward hodgepodge of menus and overlays and dead ends. There&apos;s a massive opportunity for Windows apps to turn the Xbox into something no one could have imagined, but it&apos;s as yet gone unexplored. Some of these are easily solved problems, but others — cable integration in particular — are a much steeper uphill climb.&quot;TheNextWeb&quot;The Xbox One’s $499 price will deter many potential customers, but Microsoft has built so much more than a gaming console. If you already have an Apple TV or other set-top box, you’ll find much of the functionality to be redundant, but the Kinect’s voice control features make it worth consolidating TV, Netflix, games and Skype all onto a single input.When the Xbox One arrives on Friday, its combination of exclusive gaming content with a next-generation media consumption experience will make it one of the most exciting gadgets around this holiday season.&quot;Telegraph (4/5)&quot;After a week in the company of the Xbox One, their all-on-one posturing makes far more sense to me than it did several months ago. Even those that demand their console to be focussed on games first and foremost may be quietly impressed by the Xbox One’s functionality, a seamless dashboard serving up gaming, movies and music in a fluid and easy fashion. But there are caveats, a sense that the demands of the next-generation can bog down the core pursuit of playing a video game.&quot;Mashable&quot;Among the titles available at launch, there isn&apos;t a clear blockbuster, but with huge games like Titanfall and Destiny coming in March 2014, it won&apos;t be too long until that changes. The streaming services are just as good as they were on the Xbox 360, although the Live TV offering comes with a few caveats. The Kinect integration, however, really is a novel way to switch between apps. Overall, the Xbox One experience is polished and stimulating, and it sets the groundwork for great gaming in the years to come.&quot;Mirror (5/5)&quot;Potentially groundbreaking titles like Titanfall, Watch Dogs and Destiny aren’t due for release until next year, so you won’t be missing out on too much should you decide to defer splashing out until after the Christmas rush.That said, early adopters will still have plenty to show off, though. Xbox One is an impressive and powerful piece multimedia machine with the potential to change the way you interact with home technology forever.&quot;Engadget&quot;The Xbox One may not be exactly what Microsoft thinks it is, but it&apos;s still a strong start for a powerful game console. Its sheer speed, versatility, horsepower and its ability to turn on and off with words make it a relatively seamless entry into our already crowded media center. What determines whether it stays there is the next 12 months: Exclusives like Titanfall and Quantum Break will help, as will gaining feature parity with the competition (we&apos;re looking at you, game broadcasting!).For broader success beyond just the early adopter&apos;s living room, the NFL crowd must buy in to Microsoft&apos;s $500 box. But will they? That remains to be seen. What&apos;s there so far is a very competent game box with an expensive camera and only a few exclusive games differentiating it from the competition.&quot;Ars Technica&quot;As a video game console, the Xbox One offers about what you&apos;d expect from a new Microsoft console: a big, heavy box (though quieter than you might expect), more impressive specs (though less than what you might expect after eight years), an improved controller (though still with a few odd oversights), and some good exclusive games (more reviews are coming but look into Dead Rising 3, Forza 5, Powerstar Golf, and Zoo Tycoon).As the central hub of a living room entertainment complex, though, Microsoft has a much harder sell. The company needs to prove the Xbox really adds enough value to be worthwhile and to justify the extra cost of the included Kinect over its similar competition.&quot;Kotaku&quot;I admire what Microsoft is trying to do with the Xbox One, and I&apos;m rooting for them to give their console that final push to get it to where it needs to be. The whole thing is almost there. The Kinect almost works well enough to get me to use it all the time. The TV integration is almost smooth enough to make me plug it into the heart of my living-room setup. Multitasking almost works well enough to get me checking the internet while I play games.&quot;Time&quot;$500 buys you more than a souped-up gaming portal: the Xbox One is a content assimilation engine, a vanguard move into a market the competition’s still toying around in by comparison. It’s an immature, somewhat glitchy content assimilation engine at this stage, sure, and it shares the PS4′s launch game weaknesses if you’re coming at it from the gaming side, but if you’re an early adopter or you’re already invested in Xbox Live’s social ecosystem, think of it as the jumping off point for a fascinating experiment.If it’s successful — and I’m not saying it will be; ask me again in four or five years — it has the potential to change everything about TV and streaming media and the living room as we’ve known it for decades.&quot;CVG&quot;For consumers who use Netflix and Skype as much as Forza, Xbox One presents an attractive multimedia offering this Christmas. But for core gamers Sony&apos;s package is perhaps more attractive at the moment, with more visually impressive exclusives (Killzone and Resogun are not matched by anything currently on Xbox One) and the options to stream and share game footage straight away.Whichever system you chose, neither will entirely fulfil the vision laid out in those bombastic press events earlier this year. The seeds of next-gen gaming have been planted, but they&apos;ll need time to flower before your $500 (or $400) purchase can bear fruit.&quot;Fortune&quot;Microsoft and Sony are positioning their consoles as multi-purpose entertainment hubs for the living room, and some consumers may make their decision simply based on price. (After all, the PlayStation 4 is $100 less.) But if Microsoft can iron out some performance quirks around voice recognition and Snap, the decision won&apos;t be too hard: it&apos;s far easier to glimpse the future potential in the Xbox One, starting with 10 seconds of time and the simple two-word voice command: &apos;Xbox on.&apos;&quot;Huffington Post&quot;If their old consoles haven&apos;t gotten too much mileage, Xbox 360 owners may hold off for a bit and feast on the system&apos;s hearty back catalog and new games, none of which will be backwards-compatible with the One.For home entertainment purposes, those with a more complex setup may want to research how the One could integrate with their needs. For families with a TV and a love of streaming content, the One&apos;s customizable profiles that let you pick and choose your favorite channels and apps will be useful.&quot;
3D printers have been used to makeguns,facial prostheses,catwalk clothingand evenGuardian journalistsin recent months. Now you can add music to the list.Bloc Party&apos;s Kele Okereke has teamed up with singer/songwriter Bobbie Gordon to release a new track – Down Boy – as a 3D-printed record. The limited-edition single will be sold from a pop-up shop in London in December, complete with a choice of four sleeves created by designer Kate Moross.The project is backed by Bacardi, with proceeds going to British music charity Nordoff Robbins. The technology comes from American researcher Amanda Ghassaei, based on atechnique she developed in 2012for converting digital music files into 3D-printable records.The downside for audiophiles (although possibly an additional selling point for indie enthusiasts) is that the record contains a single mono channel rather than stereo. Ghassaei&apos;s technique involves depositing white, UV-cured resin in thin layers, creating wider, deeper grooves than traditional vinyl.In ablog post last year, she described how the process worked for her initial prototypes:&quot;These records were printed on an Objet Connex500 resin printer to a precision of 600dpi with 16 micron z axis resolution. The 3D modeling in this project was far too complex for traditional drafting-style CAD techniques, so I wrote a program to do this conversion automatically. It works by importing raw audio data, performing some calculations to generate the geometry of a 12&quot; record, and eventually exporting this geometry straight to a 3D printable file format.&quot;Okereke&apos;s collaboration with Gordon is part of the Bacardi Beginnings project, where the alcohol brand pairs established and emerging musicians and adds technological twists. Previously, Rudimental and Bipolar Sunshine wrote, recorded and released a track in a day, while Toddla T and Roses Gabor ran a remix contest.3D-printed records aren&apos;t likely to make a significant commercial impact in the UK, although vinyl itself is seeing a revival,on course for 700,000 LP sales in 2013according to industry body the BPI, which would be the biggest year for the format since 2001.
Logitech’s new PowerShell Controller + Battery slaps a controller around your iPhone, bringing console-style game controls to iPhone gaming.The £89.99 PowerShell Controller takes advantage of the new gamepad accessory support built intoiOS 7, and launches with support for around 350 games including Galaxy on Fire 2 HD and Nitro.“We designed this first-of-its-kind controller for a true console-gaming experience on an iOS 7 mobile device,” said Ehtisham Rabbani, general manager of the Logitech’s gaming business. “With gaming so pervasive on the mobile platform – it’s time to revolutionise the experience.”A joypad for the iPhoneThe controller is like an extended case for the iPhone adding a D-pad, buttons and shoulder triggers, supporting the iPhone 5,iPhone 5Sand fifth-generation iPod touch, but not the iPhone 5C or older models.While locked inside the case, the power button, volume controls, camera, speaker and headphone jack remain accessible, along with charging support. The PowerShell also packs a 1,500mAh battery effectively doubling the battery life of the iPhone while connected.“We see it as an incremental gaming device to augment your console experience on the go,” said Logitech’s chief executive Bracken Darrell. “It’s a great alternative to a console – you can’t lug a PS4 or Xbox One around with you as you travel.”&apos;A new market&apos;Darrell explained that mobile gaming formed part of Logitech’s three-pronged primary strategies going forward, joining its presence in PC gaming as well as its keyboard accessories for the iPad and other tablets.“It’s a new market, and we’re very excited to be entering it with a strong product,” Darrell said.The PowerShell Controller + Battery is available from today for £89.99 via the Logitech and Apple online stores.• Star Wars: Tiny Death Star allows players tobuild a Death Star one level at a time
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGettysburg Cemetery Dedication Powerpoint &gt;&gt; Peter NorvigIf Abraham Lincoln were alive today...Turn your iPhone into a touchless musical instrument with Theremin I/O &gt;&gt; TUAWThethereminis one of the strangest musical instruments ever devised - it detects the movements and position of your hands in open space and produces sounds in return - so it was just a matter of time before the iPhone received an amazing app that mimics its capabilities.Theremin I/Ois that app, and after playing with it for longer than I'd like to admit (and scaring the wits out of my two cats in the process) I can safely say it does a fine job of replicating the ridiculous instrument's feedback.Ooooowooowooh.Why did Snapchat turn down $3bn? &gt;&gt; The New YorkerMatt Buchanan:Steve Cheney, the head of business for GroupMe, a group texting service that was acquired by Skype,tweetedthat Snapchat is "a new behavior and there will be no 2nd place." In other words, not only is ephemeral social media destined to become a fundamental, lasting phenomenon—on par with a tweet or a "like"—but only one company will own it. This is the most ambitious reason to turn down three billion dollars.The more straightforward and more likely answer is that the people who have determined its worth, its investors, believe it should get more.Also, it seems nobody wants to be at Zuckerberg's beck and call.Pfizer ditching BlackBerry, citing its 'volatile' state &gt;&gt; BloombergPfizer, the world's biggest drugmaker, will wean off of BlackBerry's phones, citing concerns that the mobile technology company might not be around in the future or may have service interrupted.Pfizer told employees who use BlackBerry devices to instead get an Apple Inc. phone or one run on Google's Android operating system. The drugmaker cited Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry's declining market share and noted that the company attempted to sell itself.Bloomberg says it has seen an internal memo. (BlackBerry declined to comment.) Pfizer has 92,000 employees. BlackBerry is bleeding.Tablets unable to replace notebooks, says Quanta chairman &gt;&gt; DigitimesCommenting on rumors that Samsung and Apple are considering large-size tablets, and Quanta would be the ODM for Apple's large-size tablet, Quanta vice chairman CC Leung refused to talk about the company's clients and only pointed out that if tablet display sizes become too large, prices will be similar to those of notebooks, reducing their appeal to consumers.Leung also noted that Quanta's notebook orders are mostly for 14- and 15-inch models, showing that consumers still prefer larger displays for work and browsing. However, the larger the display, the higher costs are, and touchscreen notebooks are also having similar issues because touch panels greatly increased costs, pushing consumers away.Samsung delivers official statement regarding Galaxy S3′s Android 4.3 update issues &gt;&gt; SamMobileTwo weeks ago, Samsung finally released the much awaited Android 4.3 update for the Galaxy S III, but immediately after updating the device to Android 4.3 users started to complain about various bugs they were encountering. We ourselves tested the Android 4.3 update extensively and came to the conclusion that Samsung might have rushed with the new update just so that they could bring in GALAXY Gear's support to the Galaxy S III. Samsung KNOX was also not implemented in the software update, even though Samsung promised that it will introduce KNOX with the Android 4.3 update…Galaxy S3 users were waiting for this update for a long time now as the device was still running a year old version of Android (4.1.2), Samsung never updated the device to Android 4.2. We think Samsung should have taken some more time and iron out all the bugs before actually rolling out the firmware upgrade as it has made a lot of its customers very unhappy.Not clear what those suffering from the problems ("wake up lag, random freezing, huge battery drain and more") should do in the meantime.LG Smart TVs logging USB filenames and viewing info to LG servers &gt;&gt; DoctorBeet's BlogAfter some investigation, I found a rather creepy corporate video advertising their data collection practices to potential advertisers. It's quite long but a sample of their claims are as follows:"LG Smart Ad analyses users favourite programs, online behaviour, search keywords and other information to offer relevant ads to target audiences. For example, LG Smart Ad can feature sharp suits to men, or alluring cosmetics and fragrances to women."Furthermore, LG Smart Ad offers useful and various advertising performance reports. That live broadcasting ads cannot. To accurately identify actual advertising effectiveness."In fact, there is an option in the system settings called "Collection of watching info:" which is set ON by default.Remember, defaults rule the world.Apple, the hyperion ion cannon and why future iPhones could have a sapphire screen &gt;&gt; TechCrunchMatthew Panzarino:Basically, Apple will be melding the touch circuitry with the LCD display, creating a single, thinner part. This will obviously make the devices thinner and more cost-effective if the price of production is driven down. This works for both standard and in-plane-switching (IPS) panels, which Apple has taken to using lately. Unfortunately, there aren't any commercial solutions for in-cell technology and sapphire crystal as of yet.Instead, Apple's patent outlines a method where it is possible to meld the hyper-thin sheets of sapphire created by GT Advanced with much, much cheaper glass sheets.By doing this, Apple could drive the costs of sapphire sheets down incredibly low in comparison to the traditional method. It will be able to create many of these super thin sapphire sheets from the same amount of raw material it would take to make one full piece of sapphire cover glass. It could then laminate the assembly together in the way that it currently does iPhones (but does not do for iPads, even the new Airs).The challenge is that sapphire screens currently (ahead of these moves) cost at least 10 times more than glass. "Hyperion ion cannon" sounds like something from sci-fi.The naked Android &gt;&gt; VisionMobileStijn Schuermans:The "Android ecosystem" has become a misnomer. It really should be called the "Google Play Services ecosystem". (Sadly, it doesn't' have the same ring to it.) Google has re-established firm control over the apps that drive Android's success as a platform.Android as an operating system is still important to Google in the light of its defensivestrategy to flatten everything standing between the user's eyeballs and Google's ad inventory. Android has succeeded, and will continue to succeed, in preventing any mobile platform from becoming a monopoly in the way that Microsoft Windows was on the PC.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
TheRaspberry Piis a fantastic little machine, but not that simple to get up and running if the user has never built a PC or used Linux before.Kano is trying to change that for adults and children alike.At its heart, Kano is essentially a Raspberry Pi kit but it goes further by providing a plug-and-play learning environment that anyone, including children as young as eight, can get up and running within minutes.Asking for$100,000 in funding on Kickstarter, Kano is available as a kit for a $99 pledge, or for a $199 “get one, give one” pledge funders will get one for themselves and one will be donated to a sponsored child.Snap together a bit like LegoYou can put the Kano kit together in just 107 seconds.The box includes everything required to build a computer short of a screen, including a Raspberry Pi, a case, wireless keyboard with trackpad, cables, Wi-Fi dongle, and even a speaker.The parts snap together a bit like Lego, with colour coded cables and a simple instruction booklet guiding the user through the quick and easy steps – no mammoth text books required.The Kano kit comes with an SD card loaded with Kano OS, a highly customisable bespoke, simplified and easy to use Debian Linux distribution, which guides the user through setup and using the computer once it is built.Kano OS also includes multimedia packages, plus Kano Blocks, an open source visual programming language that can output code in Python and JavaScript among other languages, and can be used for all sorts of things including game creation, plugging directly into things like Pong and Minecraft.Why it might not workIf Kano is seen as just another Raspberry Pi kit, which it is at its heart, then it is expensive at $99. You could argue others have already done what Kano is trying to do, and that the Raspberry Pi doesn’t need extras like a case, keyboard and speaker – it was created as a barebones system for a reason.Why it might take offIn terms of usability, Kano offers more out of the box than just a standard Raspberry Pi, or than most Raspberry Pi kits. According to the co-founder Alex Klein, “Kano is a computer anyone can make – not just a hacker’s toy” and on the face of it, that’s exactly what Kano is.The Kano kit builds on top of the incredible success of the Raspberry Pi, adds a speaker, and easy-to-assemble kit, and makes it more accessible to more people – a simple to use “experience layer” over a Raspberry Pi, as Klein puts it.Kano kit is something that could be bought for a child without the need for a tech-savvy adult to do the legwork getting command line up and running. It challenges children to first build a computer, and then go on to learn about using computers, programming and computer science in fun and engaging ways using the “gameification” of levelling up to keep kids entertained.Kano could be the Raspberry Pi kit ordinary people and children have been waiting for.Star rating: 4/5• In October, the Raspberry Pi Foundation announced it hadsold 2m Raspberry Pis globallyin under two years
It's Wednesday.
Twitter and Facebook should let users block anonymous messages if they are serious about stopping bullying and trolling on social media sites, David Cameron's adviser on child internet safety has said.Claire Perry, a Conservative whip, said internet firms are currently not doing enough to tackle bullying online and called for more prosecutions of people who make online threats,that she described as misogynistic.In a hearing with the House of Commons media committee, she said bullying would be "driven down" if users could choose to block communication from anonymous users.Perry, who received online threats over the summer, said there should be an online verification process, so people can see if they are dealing with other users who have supplied their real names or chosen to remain anonymous."Having been on the receiving end of a storm of Twitter abuse, I don't think the companies do enough. Part of the problem is anonymity of usage," she said."People post about how they'd like to rape you and kill you because they think you don't know who you are. If there was some way of the company knowing and being prepared to verify that identify and to show you that verification, I think it would lead to a diminuation in that kind of behaviour."I don't think the companies do enough and I think there is a great concern around it given the US legal framework around which the global companies operate."Perry is the prime minister's adviser on the commercialisation and sexualisation of children, concentrating on the impact of online pornography, but she is also working on the issue of internet bullying.Asked whether there should be more prosecutions for trolling, she said: "Yes I do. I think it is deeply misogynistic. We did see cautions and apologies [over the summer]. But I think actually prosecucuting for what I think is pretty vile behaviour would be helpful.Ed Vaizey, a Tory culture minister, said he thought there was "mileage in sitting down with the social media companies" to discuss Perry's suggestions.Earlier in the hearing, a Twitter executive said anybody could use an alias, while Facebook said it asked people to use their real names but did not carry out checks unless there were complaints.
Google is paying $17m to 37 US states and the District of Columbia as compensation for snooping on millions of people by subverting Apple's web browser in 2011 and 2012.The settlement, announced on Monday evening, follows a record$22.5m fine handed out to the search giant in August 2012over the same complaint by the US Federal Trade Commission.The settlement came after Google admitted in 2012 that it had circumvented protections built into Apple's Safari browser on the iPhone, iPad and Mac to track users via its DoubleClick advertising network.Apple's default settings ban sites which users have not visited from setting "cookies", small text files with information about the user and site, on their machine. Cookies can act as unique identifiers of a user; if two unrelated sites used DoubleClick for advertising - as many do - and a Safari user went from one to the other, their movements could be tracked by Google.Google admitted that it had carried out the hacking of the Safari browser in February 2012, but did not admit liability, the same position that it adopted with the FTC. This was important in that judgement because an admission of liability could have left Google subject to a much larger fine on the grounds that it breached a previous FTC consent order over user privacy. That wasimposed in March 2011 over its "Buzz" social networkand will be in force for 20 years.Google has maintained the Safari intrusion was an inadvertent side-effect of an attempt to make it easier for people to recommend ads.Until the problem was uncovered by Jonathan Mayer, a graduate student at Stanford University, Google had assured Safari users that they wouldn't be monitored as long as they didn't change the browser settings to permit the tracking."Misrepresenting that tracking will not occur, when that is not the case, is unacceptable, as this settlement emphasises," Wisconsin Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen said."We work hard to get privacy right at Google and have taken steps to remove the ad cookies, which collected no personal information, from Apple's browsers," the company said in a statement. "We're pleased to have worked with the state attorneys general to reach this agreement."The settlement will be divided among the participating states and the District of Columbia.The states' rebuke is primarily a PR blow to Google, whose privacy controls have suffered other lapses in recent years. The most glaring privacy breach came when a Google engineer installed a program which enabled Google cars collecting pictures of street scenes to also scoop up personal data being transmitted over unprotected Wi-Fi networks. That led to a $7m fine from 38 US states and the District of Columbia, while the Federal Communications Commission fined it $25,000 for obstructing its investigation into what happened.The latest settlement will barely dent Google's finances. After stripping out the company's advertising commissions, Google's revenue this year is expected to be about $47bn, according to analysts surveyed by FactSet. That suggests it would take Google slightly more than three hours to generate $17m in revenue on an average day.Besides paying the fine, Google also is agreeing to maintain a special page devoted to cookies for the next five years and refrain making any misleading statements about its online tracking practices.
It's only in more recent times that Super Mario has begun to make sense in his role as the video game medium's mascot. His rise to fame was swift and inexorable; by the early 1990s he was reportedly more recognisable to US children than Mickey Mouse. But there was always something disconcerting about video gaming's poster boy being a poster man, complete with pot belly and hectic facial hair, a strange choice for a medium founded on principles of youth and playfulness.But watch carefully and you notice that this mildly sinister-looking man in his 40s runs and jumps with the freewheeling abandon of innocence, demonstrating a childlike glee as holds his arms out while pretending to be an aeroplane, leaps off buildings with a triumphant "yahoo" or dresses up in a bee costume. As the average game player enters their 30s and 40s, who better to represent the reviving power of playfulness in the stern face of advancing age? Mario is a man who never forgot the importance of play, capturing the spirit of Peter Pan's eternal youth, if not his fresh face – and we are invited to do the same through his games as they echo onwards through time.Mario also reflects the character of his maker, 61-year-old Shigeru Miyamoto, arguably the most consistently brilliant game designer in the world. In his role as director of Super Mario 3D World, Miyamoto demonstrates a freshness and generosity of imagination that few other mainstream games makers come close to rivalling. The Super Mario lineage may be 30 years old, but its latest iteration is as spritely as its best. Nintendo EAD, the game's closeted, Tokyo-based crack team of inventors may have retreated from the buckshot heavens once explored in the Wii's Super Mario Galaxy titles, settling once again on terra firma (even if, predictably enough, it's often covered in ice or lava) – but what a world.Super Mario 3D World: claws for thoughtThe game, which is set within the Sprixie Kingdom, is broken into seven main worlds, each subdivided into a number of discrete levels. The structure allows the designers to play with ideas in a way the grim, cinema-aping blockbuster games, which must squeeze their game design ideas into tight narratives, cannot. Mario's verbs of play may remain consistent throughout – run, jump, pound, clamber –but each level is presented as a rounded idea that can stand alone, a vignette-like five-minute journey around a single idea, or a set of juxtaposing ones. Nintendo EAD's mastery can be seen in the seeming ease with which the team introduces brilliant ideas, often as one-offs, never to be reprised.There are the levels in which your character – chosen between Mario, his brother Luigi, frequent damsel-in-distress Princess Peach or her dutiful attendant Toad (with another unlocked during the glorious post-ending world) – is cloned and you control two, three, four and even more versions of your character as they chaotically navigate the level's pipes and platforms in unison. There's the level in which you dress as a Goomba, and stealthily creep past the other unsuspecting mushroom-like foes, or the one in which you role-play as a cannon, spitting bullets back at antagonist Bowser's minions. There's the time you hop into a giant ice-skate, and trace lines in the ice as you try to send a skating rival off the edge of the precipice. And there's the cat costume, ostensibly 3D World's grand invention, which adds to Mario's increasingly fetishist wardrobe, allowing its wearer to temporarily climb walls and swipe at enemies with sharpened claws.These are the game's standout inventions, but this is a game filled with playful touches, many of which have no real bearing on play. Play with friends (there's drop-in drop-out multiplayer for up to four players) and, at the end of each stage, the player who won the most points during the stage is given a crown to wear. This offers no discernable bonus other giving its bearer a sense of aesthetic dominance. But preening victory can be short-lived: other players can knock the crown from their rival's head and wear it themselves. On the world map, the hub whose layout nods towards 1990's Super Mario World, you can move freely around the landscape before choosing which stage you wish to tackle next. The environment offers a clutch of bonuses: extra lives and coins found amongst the tall grass and houses and casinos full of item-spewing distractions.Super Mario 3D World: high spiritsEnemies also delight. One, the long-necked Conkdor bird, attacks by slamming its beak downwards. If it misses you and hits the ground, the sunglasses it is wearing will fall from its nose. Mini-Goombas can be whisked through the level by blowing into the Wii-U controller's microphone. Occasionally the level designers leave a baseball lying around, for absent-minded kicking. The flippant playfulness on display equals the cast iron level design that underpins every moment of this coherent masterpiece.The game is a technical marvel too, revealing the surprising power of the Wii U system (launched earlier this year ahead of the Christmas battle between Sony's PlayStation 4 and Microsoft's Xbox One), running in full HD at 60 frames per second, a technical claim few of the rival manufacturer's launch titles are able to make. Complete a stage and your "ghost" (a translucent version of your Mii character that recreates your every move) is uploaded to the cloud, ready to be downloaded without fuss into someone else's game for them to compete against. Each stage has a hidden "stamp" to find, which can then be used to illustrate notes and messages, which can be pinned to levels for other players to read. Nintendo makes these touches appear effortless, but their deft execution is the result of generations of design experience.Each of the game's worlds is bookended with a face-off against a larger boss character, and these missions can only be unlocked when you've collected the requisite number of green stars. Each stage contains three of these stars, hidden about the level's furniture. It's a somewhat antiquated design decision (strange to tie a player's progression to the number of optional collectibles they've found) but this is the only questionable (if workable) decision in a game defined by masterly choices.Super Mario 3D World: biting humourTo some, Super Mario may appear tired: a mascot whom Nintendo trots out every few years to sell another console with repackaged but fundamentally stale ideas. Super Mario 3D World is a fierce rebuttal to the accusation. Mario and his makers once again assert their dominance of spatial navigation games, displaying a rude abundance of ideas to delight, surprise and celebrate innocence and playfulness.
A flaw in the website of President Obama&apos;s flagship Affordable Care programme has left the site and its users vulnerable to hacking, the Guardian has discovered.Healthcare.govhas been unknowingly recording hack attempts through its search box and re-presenting the code as automatically completed options.The bug could invite hackers to plant malicious code, which could then infect users&apos; computers, but while site managers have removed the most obvious mistakes, several serious flaws remain and attacks continue to be suggested to users.Although most of them are harmless, some saved options present the possibility of further attacks using a flaw known as &quot;cross site scripting&quot;, or XSS.If visitors to Healthcare.gov type a semicolon (;), apostrophe (&apos;) or less-than sign (&lt;) into the search box, they are presented with a list of the most popular searches beginning with those characters.That includes a variety of terms used in hacking techniques such as XSS and SQL injection attacks; both types of attacks involve forming a search term in such a way that the target interprets it as a command.Some examples of attempted hacks in Healthcare.gov's autocomplete. Photograph: /Healthcare.govThe fact that the site is showing such terms in its search bar&apos;s autocomplete is indicative of the quantity of attacks it has come under.In early November, Roberta Stempfley, who is in charge of cyber security at the Department of Homeland Security, told the House of Representatives&apos; Homeland Security committee that the agency had been passed &quot;about 16 reports&quot; of hacking attempts of the website serious enough to warrant investigation.It is unknown how many minor attacks the site has come under, but there are apparently enough for the search bar&apos;s autocomplete to consider them common search terms.None of the attacks displayed by the site work, and as such it would be merely embarrassing for the Department of Health and Human Services to so publicly display the pressure it is under.But some of the malformed search terms hint at deeper problems with the site.Users who search for a term like &quot;admin&quot; see it being suggested correctly, with the already-typed letters showing up in bold, and the suggested completion showing unbolded. But if the same user searches for a term like &quot;&lt;admin&gt;&quot;, the site&apos;s formatting breaks. The already-typed letters do not show up at all, and the untyped letters are bolded, as seen in the following image:How special characters break the Healthcare.gov search box Photograph: /Healthcare.govExamination of the code returned shows that the typed characters are passed to the user&apos;s browser as javascript, where the &quot;&lt;&quot; character causes them to be incorrectly displayed.Worse still, some typed code is simply executed. Users searching for &quot;&lt;input&gt;&quot; receive an autocomplete suggestion which contains a copy of the search box:breaks the search box." width="314" height="175" class="gu-image" />How &lt;input&gt; breaks the search box. Photograph: /Healthcare.govThe autocomplete suggestions are a potential weakness in the site; that makes the inability of the site&apos;s team to control which suggestions enter the database a more serious issue than mere embarrassment.&quot;The developersdoseem to be actively filtering out swear words from being displayed in the suggestions list (I spent some time trying to get one in particular to appear) but they are not filtering out strings associated with attacks&quot;, says Trend Micro&apos;s Rik Ferguson.&quot;Does this mean that they did not anticipate such a high level of interest in poking holes in the website? That would be a bad thing.&quot;They do not appear to have spent a lot of time on the sanitisation of input (the best mitigation against these sorts of attacks) judging by the poor error handling and the oddities that can be achieved, for example, with the input tag. This too would be a bad thing – and neither of these bode well for the robustness of the site.&quot;Twenty-four hours after the autocomplete suggestions became public, the list was edited to remove some of the most obvious attempted attacks, including &quot;;select * from users&quot; and &quot;;show tables; &quot;, but many still remain.•Obamacare is not to blame for Walmart&apos;s weak sales
When is a biometric not a biometric? When it's an ultra-wideband RFID (radio frequency ID) tag which provides such detailed and continuous information about your movements that it makes logging your movements by fingerprints or card check-ins redundant – because it knows where you are to within centimetres.It might sound useful or intrusive – or both, depending on your point of view. And one of its biggest users in the UK (outside of factories that want to trace where potentially dangerous machines are being used) has been a vocational college in West Cheshire that offers training and apprenticeships for 14 to 17-year-olds in fields such as hairdressing, forensics, and accounting.In a trial of up to three years, ending in February 2013, pupils atWest Cheshire Collegewore tags that allowed them to be tracked in detail throughout the college's three campuses. The tags used a new type of ultra-wideband active RFID (Radio Frequency ID) that provides a far more detailed picture of student and staff movements than anything available before.When first asked about the trial in October, the college's PR spokesperson, Louise Lewis, would say only: "An RFID trial was conducted by the build contractors BAM and their subcontractors, however the technology was only accepted by the college for the purpose of physical asset tracking."More recently, the college has expanded on this, saying: "The technology was introduced with the aim of assessing how it could be used for self-marking class attendance registers, safeguarding purposes, and to improve the physical management of the buildings."Lewis says the trial began in May 2012, when the building work was completed, and was discontinued in February 2013, when a review showed that "the technology did not enhance current systems or business operations" and the college became concerned about rising costs to maintain the system in the future.The trial came to light owing to the efforts ofPippa King, a Hull-based campaigner who, along with others such asDavid Clouter, led the chargeagainst the use of biometrics in schoolsfor such things as registration, checking out library books, and paying for meals.The result was the2012 Protection of Freedoms Act, which requires schools to obtain parental consent before processing biometric information, and which became law in October 2013. It does not, however, cover RFID. In the US, the December 2012 shootings in Sandy Hook, New Jersey, are inspiring increased security in many schools. RFID Journal reports, for example, on which the Belleville school district in New Jersey is spending $2m toimplement an extensive security system throughout its schools,including cameras with built-in analytic software, armed officers, a new phone system, active RFID tracking, and panic buttons for teachers.In the UK, the only known prior use of RFID in schools was in 2007, when the Edenthorpe school, near Doncaster,trialled embedding RFID chips in school badges on uniforms, with the aim of "accurate and speedy pupil registration, child security, and to aid […] reporting systems covering rowdy pupils". The resulting outcry forced the school to abandon the idea.WCC's system seems to have passed entirely unnoticed until King spotted it. The story, as revealed through Freedom of Information requests made by King,available at WhatDoTheyKnow.comand other documents she has uncovered, is that in 2009 WCC began revamping its three campuses. The contractor, BAM Construction, subcontracted Honeywell Building Solutions to install an integrated building management system including security management - access control and what is described in Honeywell'spresentation about the project(PDF) as "people/asset location and management". Honeywell called in Zebra Systems. Students were issued with tags, along with other smart cards to pay for transport and retail goods in the local mall, when the campuses began reopening in 2010.In 2012, the college's building services area manager, Kevin Francis, gave a presentation at the RFID Journal Live conference in Florida. Here is where things get peculiar. As King asked additional questions, the college became increasingly reluctant to answer, and finally dubbed her "vexatious" and therefore no longer entitled to answers under the FoIA.King appealed to the information commissioner's office, which responded by overruling the "vexatious" charge and instructing the college it had to respond. In the meantime, however, King had found and archived other material, such as the Zebra Systems press release about the WCC system and a promotional video recording in which Francis discusses the system and its purposes. These have since disappeared off the net, along with an RFID Journal article in which Francis discussed the system in some detail (althougha Spanish translation remains). When King reposted the video on YouTube and Vimeo, it was promptly taken down under the aegis of copyright infringement.In this cache of material, Francis said the school implemented the system in order to better understand how the students used the redeveloped campuses, to improve its ability to ensure everyone is safely evacuated in case of an emergency, and to ensure it can provide accurate student and staff counts for financial management. Tags were issued to 500 faculty members and the college's 5,500 full-time students. Perhaps not just them; the parent of a 14-year-old boy who attended the college on day release has told King he was issued with a tag but had no idea what it was.RFID Journal quotes Francis as comparing the costs of active RFID favourably to those of alternatives and praising the system's functionality: "We can search for individual [students or staff]. And we can look at them in groups, such as peer groups." Francis, like others connected with commissioning the system, has since left the college.The technology involved, UWB active RFID, is truly fascinating and deserves far greater attention all on its own.Unlike the more familiar passive RFID chips used in Oyster cards and passports, where a reader must send a signal for the chip to be able to send its data, active RFID chips broadcast a burst of radio waves at programmed intervals – anything from multiple times a second to once every four or five minutes – and carrying up to several hundred metres. Compatible readers collect this data and process it.According to John De Wit, Zebra Systems' director for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, "The choice of active RFID as a tracking mechanism comes down to speed and accuracy." The more frequent the pulses, the more complete a view of the item's movements. Accordingly, compared to location systems using GPS, mobile network masts, or nearby Wi-Fi, the resolution offered by UWB active RFID is much finer. GPS and mobile phones can locate you at an address; active RFID can pinpoint you to within inches. For uses such as automotive assembly lines, this is helpful."Most tools tightening up nuts and bolts are wireless controlled," says De Wit. "They are computers, and communicate over wireless to load up certain profiles." A tool is programmed to tighten a bolt at precisely the right torque for the specific location in a car, and it's disabled if it's moved to the wrong work area."What's driving it is primarily quality control and, second, loss of tools." In the case of locating people, these systems are being used by sports teams to study their players' movements, and in cattle herds in Germany to spot emerging illness. De Wit was not at Zebra when the WCC trial took place, but he confirmed that it took place and believes the driving reason was safety."UWB is a weird technology," says Rupert Goodwins, the former editor of ZDNet UK, who remembers seeing early versions of it under the name "pulse radio" at Sheffield in the 1980s and Georgia Tech in the late 1990s."It's been used as through-the-wall radar in the past." Twenty years ago, "Georgia Tech had things that could monitor respiration, tell your gender over 500 metres through walls – without a tag, just using UWB as a radar system. They said they reckoned soon they would be able to get the resolution up to tell what people were saying by the scatter off their vocal cords." He adds, "I was expecting it to be much more commercially significant than it turned out to be."To Goodwins, therefore, King's concerns about privacy invasion seem quite valid. "UWB has a lot of potential for that sort of thing, especially if you have a tag that can respond. You can get a lot more information out of the system."King is especially concerned because the story is exposing unforeseen gaps in the Protection of Freedoms Act."The last thing I want to do, having successfully gotten parental consent for schools to take biometric information from children, is to have to start from scratch again with active RFID tracking," she says.What did the college tell its staff and students about the tags? Was there any discussion or debate about privacy? Did the system have any benefits? The college has declined to answer questions like these. It's almost as if it would far rather we didn't know about the trial at all.• The video iscurrently on YouTube.
