I've been playing around with the new Xbox 360 camera - Xbox Live Vision - and while it's hard to get too worked up about a webcam I've been quite impressed. It's easy to use - simply stick the Vision in a spare USB port on your 360 (or PC) - and it works well, especially for video conferencing. The quality is good - a headset is bundled with the camera - and you can zoom in if you wish to see exactly what sort of sofa your mate is slumped in. Tweaking the settings adds more light or other visual effects but Vision is very easy to use and well worth a punt if you fancy video calling. Where it currently falls down is the games, unless you get particular excited about "appearing" in UNO or Texas Hold 'em.The next Rainbow Six game will allow players to stick their heads onto their in-game character - the original N64 Perfect Dark once promised this - which should be amusing in multiplayer. The one playable game currently available is Totem Ball, a cartoony platform game controlled by moving your arms around - both up to go forward, down to go backwards and somewhere in the middle to turn. Frustrating, fiddly and tiring? You betcha. At least the price is right - it's free - but Totem Ball is a poor showcase of what could be done with the camera. Still, by integrating tightly with online - unlike Sony's innovative EyeToy - Vision has a massive amount of potential. Get it now if you fancy some decent video calling but otherwise hang on until they sort the gaming side out.
Last week, fast "food" chain Burger King officially announced the release of limited edition computer games featuring their brand's intellectual property, available for a brief time in the US in November and December. In a clever - and probably expensive - move, the retail franchise commissioned a series of interactive playthings that should irrevocably burn images of a disturbing King, the "subservient chicken" and Whopper Jr. onto the brain stems of youth.According toGameSpot, the games are adaptations of existing genres, so there's a stealth action title, a driving game and a Hot Wheels-style arcade racer. They'll be available for multiple platforms on one disc and will retail for under $5. Methinks they won't be ground-breaking, but they're sure as heck a step up from the plastic bumpkiss I used to get (when I was an impressionable tyke) inHappy Meals.
"Google Inc announced today that it has agreed to acquire YouTube, the consumer media company for people to watch and share original videos through a Web experience, for $1.65 billion in a stock-for-stock transaction. Following the acquisition, YouTube will operate independently to preserve its successful brand and passionate community," says theGoogle Blog.Well done Michael Arrington of TechCrunch for getting teh scoop withCompletely Unsubstantiated Google/YouTube Rumoron Friday, ahead of the Wall Street Journal's report on Saturday:Google in Talks To Buy YouTube For $1.6 Billion. The Journals says:Founded in February 2005, YouTube is the poster child for the boom under way in online video. By the time of the Web site's official public release in December 2005, consumers were viewing YouTube videos more than three million times daily. That month, someone posted to YouTube a skit from NBC's "Saturday Night Live" dubbed "Lazy Sunday," featuring two grown men rapping about cupcakes, red licorice candy and the movie "The Chronicles of Narnia." Consumers viewed "Lazy Sunday" six million times before NBC on Feb. 3 contacted YouTube to request that it be removed, along with hundreds of other clips.Comment: GoogLube sounds like a fine name for the combination....I was trying to remember when I first posted a YouTube video here -- the ability to repost clips being a main attraction. One I recall wasHere's Google's first TV adverton December 17. Anyone remember anything before that?
FollowingNight of Bush Capturing, an anti-George Bush FPS released onto Jihadist websites last month, it seems the situation in the Middle East has indirectly inspired another politically motivated game.Last week, the New York Timesreported on'Counter Strike' (no relation), in which gamers must plant two bombs on a tanker in the strait of Hormuz, thereby rendering a key oil route to the West impassable. The NYT/Reuters piece hints that the game producers are state-funded and that the title illustrates, 'a warning by Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who said in June that oil exports in the Gulf region could be seriously endangered if the United States made a wrong move on Iran.'Freerepublic.com has somebrief quotesfrom the game's lead designer, Ahmadreza Nouri, who claims it's a response to Kuma Reality Games'Assault on Iran, part of a long-running episodic shooter series based around current US conflicts.If only all diplomatic flashpoints could be handled through the medium of competing videogames, the world would seem a much safer place. North Korea Missile Command, anyone?
Well, that's what I thought when I saw this logo and the attending screenshots ontigsource.comlast week. They belong toAqauriaa forthcoming 2D underwater side-scroller that could well be the indie gaming scene's next Gibbage, Darwinia or Democracy. It looks utterly lovely - especially to oldtimers like me who remember Liverpool developer Psygnosis in its halycon style-over-substance days. The days of Obliterator, Baal and Shadow of the Beast......anyway, back to now. Aquaria features a minimal HUD - everything, from casting spells to singing is controlled through various mouse moves with no recourse to menu screens. The developer claims that there are hundreds of forms of underwater life to discover through the apparently non-linear adventure.There is just an obvious, individual beauty about 2D games - a sharpness and precision that cannot be replicated in three dimensions. Sometimes you forget, and then you trawl the indie gaming sites and something like this or Defcon pops up.Aquaria is due out next Spring.
Google's Official Blog had some interesting news over the weekend, to the effect that it had "decided not to continue with Google Click-to-call project". It would have been a good story, if I'd believed it. Today, however, Google said, as expected: "A bug in Blogger enabled an unauthorized user to make a fake post on the Google Blog claiming that we have discontinued our AdWords click-to-call test. The bug was fixed quickly and the post removed. Our click-to-call test is progressing on schedule and we are pleased with the results thus far."As Danny Sullivan ofSearch Engine Watchpointed out at the time:Got to be a hack. Especially notice what's currently tops on the Google blog, a post all about how "Google takes security very seriously and designs all of its services and applications to protect your privacy and data security." This almost certainly is someone reading how "we keep the bad guys out of our systems" and thumbing Google's nose to show nope, they don't.So the hacker made his point. But if only he'd posted something more plausible, without the bad grammar and misspellings, then perhaps lots of people would have been taken in. That would have been much more fun.
Each week I have the dubious pleasure of joining my colleagues from the Guardian's science desk for ourweekly podcastcovering science and technology.Prominent biologistSteve Jonesexplains why he's taking on the fight against intelligent design; scientistKevin Andersontells us why carbon offsetting is a load of old tosh, andMarc Abrahamsguides us through the weird world of research and the Ig Nobel prize.If you haven't had a listen then thengive it a go. You never know, you might just like it.As always, we're keen to hear your thoughts and opinions - email science@guardian.co.uk or Skype us atgu_studio.•Listen now on your computer•Subscribe for free via iTunes•Grab the feed
While civil libertarians and the tinfoil hat brigade object to ID cards on legal grounds, plenty of people are concerned about how much it will costs for the biometric identity project that government has been banging on about for years.Now, perhaps, we are inching towards a proper idea.Asthe Registerreports:The Home Office reckongs it will cost £290m to set-up passport and ID cards for British and Irish citizens resident in the UK for October 2006 to October 2016 and operational costs will be £5.1bn.That figure, you'll be glad to hear, includes: "provision for optimism bias". "Optimism bias is a percentage uplift added to key cost parameters. It is based on the tendency for appraisers to be over-optimistic in the forecast of capital costs, works duration, operating costs and benefits delivery."What a great line!BARTENDER: Why the long face? HORSE: I've got a 0% provision for optimism bias.
Real-life continues to interfere with my Call of Duty online gaming plans. Due to a work deadline I'll have to shift this week's Gamesblog session to tomorrow and start it at the earlier time of 7.30pm. I'm desperate to give the Xbox360 version of Call of Duty 2 a go so hopefully several of you can come along and play. If you've previously expressed an interest I probably have your gamertag here, but if you could just send me a friend request at, say, 7.15pm that'll make things easier. I'm Keefer71.Come and play!
Home computers can be attacked by hackers more than 50 times a night, the results of an experiment showed today.Every time a test PC was connected to the internet, it was targeted by viruses and attempts to gain access to the information it contained.The experiment, carried out by the BBC News website, used a "honeypot" PC, which looked like a normal computer to potential hackers but secretly recorded every attempt to gain access to it.Each time the machine was put online during the month-long test period, it came under attack from hackers or dangerous computer programmes. In one of the busiest nights of malicious activity, it was attacked 53 times.The computer was subjected to a hijack attempt by subverting the web server built into Microsoft Windows. A successful hijack would have handed control of the PC over to the hacker.There were two port scans - the reconnaissance process used by hackers to find new victims.It was attacked 11 times by the Blaster worm, a computer programme that sends copies of itself to other PCs. A successful attack would have left the machine unstable.Three Slammer worm attacks were made, which could have crippled the computer and left it prone to crashing, and there were 36 fake security announcements or advertisements for fake security software posing as warnings.Reacting to these could leave a PC clogged with spyware - programmes monitoring what users do with their computer and then sending the information over the internet.Over the course of the experiment, at least one attack an hour on average came from a dangerous computer bug with the ability to cripple an unprotected PC.There was at least one serious attack a night, such as attempts to hijack the computer that could have led to it being turned into a zombie PC used to carry out criminal activity without the owner's knowledge.The BBC said the experiment demonstrated the vulnerability of unprotected home PCs to malicious hackers.According to the security software firm Symantec, 86% of all targeted attacks on computers are aimed at home users.Experts estimate that there are around 200,000 malicious programmes, such as viruses, worms and spyware, in existence.One hacker the BBC spoke to claimed to have made $10,000 (&#163;5,345) a day from computer crime, while another claimed the ability to hack into many online shops within three to four hours.
Trey Parker and Matt Stone, creators of the inimitableSouth Park, have paid their respects to World of Warcraft and its culture with a full length episode, availablehere. You can also see it on the official site (for a limited time only)here. Mainstream treatment of a computer game property, plus broadcast machinima. What is the world coming to?The show is peppered with an unthinkable combination of leet language nods yet accessible scriptwriting. Their descent into uber geeks is brilliant. I almost died laughing.Worth the 22 minutes of work evasion. Just tremendous.thanks goonerboy
How big is too big? It is a question finally being asked at Google, the fastest-growing company in history, after its co-founder admitted that after launching so many internet services even he is confused.Google is now much more than a web search engine: it is in talks to buy YouTube, the hugely popular video-sharing website, for &pound;856m, according to reports yesterday. The news was a tacit acknowledgement that the Silicon Valley behemoth's own service, Google Video, has failed to compete.So rapid is the eight-year-old company's expansion that its executives have now conceded that it risks losing focus. Sergey Brin, Google's co-founder - whose wealth is estimated at &pound;7.5bn - has ordered engineers to stop creating so many new products and to work instead on improving its existing offerings.Brin is leading an initiative across the company entitled 'Features, not products', after executives realised users were baffled. 'It's worse than that,' confessed Brin. 'It's that I was getting lost in the sheer volume of the products that we were releasing.'Google is celebrated for the simplicity of its stripped-down home page and search box, but more than 50 products are in various stages of development by hundreds of engineers. Internal audits this year showed that the company had been spending too much time on new services to the detriment of its core search engine. Eric Schmidt, its chief executive, said: 'The result occurred precisely because we told these incredible engineering teams to run as fast as possible to solve new problems. But then that created this other problem.'He added that surveys showed that Google users could recall around half a dozen products, but 'they cannot remember 35'. Google has cancelled several services in development and instructed their creators to integrate them with existing products. 'That is a big change in the way we run the company,' Schmidt said, describing Google's previous attitude as 'just get this stuff built and get it out - don't worry about the integration'.Analysts say the Google empire is in danger of overreaching itself. Silicon Valley analyst Rob Enderle told the Los Angeles Times: 'They created a bunch of crap that they have no idea what to do with. What a huge waste of resources.'The acquisition of YouTube, which in 18 months has grown into a new media darling with users viewing video clips more than 70m times a day, would be a logical addition to the bulging portfolio. YouTube commanded 46 per cent of visits to US online video sites in September, compared with a 21 per cent share for the video activities of MySpace - a social networking site bought last year by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp - and 11 per cent for Google Video, according to the market-research firm Hitwise. But Google may face competition for the buy-out from News Corp, Yahoo, Microsoft, AOL Time Warner and Disney.Rumours of the deal began when an email from a 'very good' industry source arrived in the inbox of the internet blog TechCrunch. The Wall Street Journal quoted sources saying that talks were under way but at a sensitive stage. Mark Kingdon, chief executive of Organic, a San Francisco online-ad agency, said: 'Combining Google's huge advertiser base and proven key-word approach with YouTube's huge inventory of tagged content and their engaged audience could be a very lucrative combination if they can pull it off.'
It's a question that comes up fairly often, but I've yet to see any good suggestions -- at the moment, it's between Richard Branson and William Shatner.Bloggingstocksis the latest to raise the idea. This list includes the best man who will never get the job,Bill Campbell, who founded the Claris software company that Apple bought.Of course, there's alwaysCarly Fiorina, who tried to turn Hewlett-Packard into an Apple clone.
Jaguar XK convertible&pound;64,9550-60mph:6 secondsSeats:2 plus 2Good for:bridal partiesBad for:bridal pathsWhen my affianced cousin asked if I could provide a car for her wedding, I leapt at the chance. What could be easier? A quick call to an obliging press officer, a dozen metres of cream ribbon, a chauffeur's cap for good effect, and I'd be in line for a bucketload of gratitude for very little actual effort.The only problem was which vehicle to choose. The 'wedding car', after all, is so much more than just a means of getting to the church on time. Its gleaming bodywork will provide the backdrop to a thousand pictures (dark paint, by the way, will give better contrast with that white dress). It's the carriage that gets the marriage underway, the first lift the couple hitch after getting hitched. It can be traditional (white Roller), cliched (white Roller), ironic (white Roller) ...Like all indecisive people, I ducked the question by going for two options. First up, a baby-blue 1968 Triumph TR4 from the Classic Car Club (www.classiccarclub.co.uk). Members pay an annual subscription which gives them a number of points that can then be traded in for various drives in the club's fleet. The CCC now offers a 'wedding package' which gives new members a weekend in a vintage wedding car of their choice as an extra when you sign up.Unfortunately, with 12 hours to go before the couple said 'I will', the TR4 and I found ourselves shivering in the rain on the hard shoulder. A busted alternator adding to the joys of the parking ticket it received earlier that day, which in turn added to the delight of discovering a moth hole in my suit while waiting for the AA to arrive ... Ah, the fun of vintage motoring.So, option two it would be - Jaguar's beautiful XK. It had everything going for it. It was something old: the XK marque has been turning heads for 50 years in one form or another. It's something new: this current incarnation only rolled off the production line this summer, scooping awards and accolades as effortlessly as a Dyson sucks up Weetabix crumbs. It's something borrowed: of course it's borrowed, where do you think I'm going to get 65 grand. And it's something blue, too: it looks black in the wedding pictures, but in sunlight it's actually the darkest, midnight blue.The multi-award winning XK is visceral proof that Jaguar, one of the all-time greats of British motoring, is back at its very best. Its lean curves and long lines are pure eye candy; its exhilarating performance, sure-footed handling and cutting-edge technology, such as its aluminium construction and pyrotechnic safety bonnet, means the car offers that headiest of combinations - brains, brawn and beauty.The bells of St Mary the Virgin in Bruton rang out, the confetti swirled and the cream ribbons fluttered against the car's dark paint. The newly weds squeezed into the (admittedly pretty tiny) rear seats, posed for a last photo and then, with a meaningful throb, the Jaguar's vast 4.2 litre V8 set them on their way - a rolling start on the long and winding road of their togetherness.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Sanrio, the Hello Kitty company, has the Actroid DER2 fembot available for rent, saysNewlaunches.com, which has videos...
People fear they are more likely to become victims of online crime than they are to be mugged or burgled, research shows. A survey at the start of Get Safe Online Week reveals that 21 per cent of people now believe they are at greater risk from e-crime - up from 17 per cent last year. This fear of online crime is deterring the public from using the internet for everyday activities, the survey ongetsafeonline.orgfound, with early a quarter of respondents too concerned about e-crime to bank online. Nearly a fifth would not shop online and one in six had been put off logging on altogether. Nearly three quarters of those questioned said they needed more information to arm themselves against online threats.Get Safe Online Week, Britain's first national internet security awareness campaign now in its second year, will involve a series of events, roadshows and training sessions nationwide.
Young internet entrepreneurs have changed the way people book holidays, sell advertising space and meet old schoolfriends. The latest twentysomething to come up with a groundbreaking scheme believes he will revolutionise the way we park.Anthony Eskinazi, 23, is set to go international with his website,www.parkatmyhouse.com. Having launched the venture in Britain this month, he has already presented his idea on US radio and could make millions if he expands his business across the globe. On Eskinazi's free website, users can advertise their parking spaces, normally a driveway. Those who are looking for somewhere to park simply type in the postcode of their destination. The advertiser and driver then contact each other and fix a price. They can even print off a pre-contract.The site has been praised by other internet entrepreneurs and differs from other parking 'listings' websites, Eskinazi claims, because of its ease of use. 'I don't mean to be arrogant, but my site is better than everything else out there,' he said. 'Users can look up popular football or music stadiums, as well as transport links, and immediately see which spaces are available near by.'The Leeds University graduate will hope to follow in the footsteps of Martha Lane Fox, Alex Tew, and Steve and Julie Pankhurst. Fox, together with Brent Hoberman, foundedLastminute.comin 1998, when she was 24. Last year, when still a student, Tew created a website namedThe Million Dollar Homepage, and solicited advertisers to buy advertising space measured in pixels on the homepage. In five months all of the space was sold and Tew had made more than a million dollars. The Pankhursts, a young couple, set upfriendsreunitedfrom their bedroom in 1999.The idea for the parking project came to Eskinazi when he was on holiday in San Francisco last summer and was heading for a baseball game.'We were looking for parking and passed so many driveways where we could have parked but didn't have permission,' he said. 'I thought it would be useful to pay someone $10 to let me park at their house.'Eskinazi built the site himself. 'I already knew that people parked their cars in people's houses around Wimbledon time. And I wanted to extend that to the whole country,' he said.He plans to make money through advertising and by charging local businesses for attracting shoppers who would otherwise be put off by a lack of parking.'It's a matter of arithmetic,' said Doug Richard, an internet entrepreneur and former expert on the BBC television programme Dragons' Den.'The trick is to get it perfectly right in one city before taking it on to a different one, although almost all young internet entrepreneurs wouldn't do this,' he said. 'But in time it could become reasonable. He could get &pound;100,000 a year, which is a nice earner.'Eskinazi said that his website already has up to 50,000 'hits' a day. He plans to launch in Canada, Australia and Europe, and is consulting US lawyers about the website's launch in North America.Wish I'd thought of it&#183;www.milliondollarhomepage.comAlex Tew made a million from selling pixels when he was a student.&#183;www.friendsreunited.co.ukCreated by Steve and Julie Pankhurst and Jason Porter, acquired by ITV for &pound;120m.&#183;www.mumsnet.comSet up by three friends - gives parenting advice and now has 250,000 visitors a month.
Television and internet on your mobile phone is said to be the Next Big Thing. But there remains a glaring contradiction: in the era of giant flat-screen televisions, why would anyone want to squint at football or a movie on a pocket-sized gadget?The two leading handset manufacturers, Nokia and Motorola, are spending millions of pounds to find an answer. One option is to turn the mobile phone into a mini-film projector, capable of shooting images on to a nearby wall or other surface, while generating an accompanying soundtrack.Nicolas Demassieux, director of European research at Motorola Laboratories, said: 'It is in the labs at the moment but it faces difficulties, mostly concerning battery power. It is something we are exploring. In modern life you often have screens around you. Maybe you use your phone to temporarily take control of them in a secure way.'One example would be watching content from your phone on a plane's back-of-seat screen instead of the in-flight movie.Nokia's researchers have designed a thin screen which can be rolled up and stored compactly when not attached to a mobile. Anssi Vanjoki, its general manager of multimedia, said: 'We have a flexible LCD material in our labs which works in black and white. It is a direction we are following but I cannot promise it will be commercially available next year.'
To catch up with the past week's posts on one page, clickhere. Highlights include:Hewlett-Packard is buying VoodooIntel Classmate PC -- a mobile for the third worldCD mastering is killing musicDVD Jon reverse-engineers Apple's FairPlaySlam! Photo-sharing for Microsoft phonesMicrosoft's Software Protection Platform -- WGA will get tougherGeekspeak still baffles BritsMySpace is greyspace -- mostly over 35
It's always nice to report stories where the company in question seems to have taken heed of your warnings, even if they've never heard of you and have taken ages to get round to it. In this case, I've been guilty of several whinges about the lack of integration between Google's random collection of products (admittedly with the problem that Google innovatively bought other companies to get them). Now, according to the LA Times:In another sign of Google In.'s growth from start-up to corporate behemoth, the company's top executives said Thursday that they had begun telling engineers to stop launching so many new services and instead focus on making existing ones work together better.The story says:Co-founder Sergey Brin is leading a companywide initiative called "Features, not products." He said the campaign started this summer when Google executives realized that myriad product releases were confusing their users.As I pointed out in June last year,Google was becoming a portalrather than just a great search engine with an advertising agency attached. But in the portal business, its failure to integrate its products properly made it a trailer rather than a leader. It seems chief executive Eric Schmidt is now keen to fix this:After launching the initiative this summer, Schmidt said, Google canceled several services in development -- which he would not describe -- and instructed their creators to instead make them features in other products."That is a big change in the way we run the company," Schmidt said, describing Google's previous attitude as, "Just get this stuff built and get it out -- don't worry about the integration."I've also complained several times about the decline in the quality of Google's search results, and again, Google finally might agree:Google admitted this year that its internal audits discovered that the company had been spending too much time on new services to the detriment of its core search engine.I was a fairly early Google user (I read about it inEsther Dyson's Release 1.0, print edition) and told all my friends and colleagues about it, as you do. At the time, the gulf between Google and its rivals was huge. Today, Google is generally (but not always) better than Ask, and frequenlty (but not always) on a par with Yahoo....All round, Google is still the best search engine on the net, and it is still my home page. But if Google and Yahoo continue on their current courses at their current rates, Yahoo will be better in two to three years.Of course, that doesn't necessarily mean searchers will leave Google in droves. However, if it does happen, it will certainly hurt Google's reputation, and I don't think the company will like that.
MondayCultural sensitivity in gamesLondon Games FestivalAlan Wake and X06Call of Duty cancelled for nowTuesdayC64 on WiiGet fit gamingSouth Park hordeWednesdayXbox interviewBan this sick filth?Gamesblog at GameCityOkay, we get it: games are educationalThursdayBring back childhood, throw away gamesThe Scarface title sequenceGame BAFTAsFridayHighbrow gamesBAFTA winnersDuff celebrity placement
According to comScore,More than Half of MySpace Visitors are Now Age 35 or Older, as the Site's Demographic Composition Continues to Shift. It's 51.6%, in fact. ComScore says:The most significant shift has occurred among teens 12-17, who accounted for 24.7 percent of the MySpace audience in August 2005, but today represent a much lower 11.9 percent of the site's total audience.It doesn't sound likely, doesn't it? However, Liz Gannes from GigaOm saysMySpace confirmed the numbers:We called Fox Interactive spokesperson Ann Burkart to ask if comScore is off the deep end on this one, and she said the numbers are actually totally accurate with what MySpace is seeing internally.Comment: There probably still is a difference between active users and unique visitors. Parents, for example, are generally obliged to open a MySpace account just to be able to see what their kids are doing online, but they probably never use the account for anything else.
Members of the Firefox team visited Microsoft in Redmond, Seattle, as part of Microsoft's efforts to get Firefox running as well as possible on Windows Vista. Vladimir Vukićević has blogged the visit in four posts, starting withRedmond, Pt. 1. The others areRedmond, pt. 2,Redmond, pt. 3andRedmond, pt. 4. He concludes: "Overall, it was a very productive and useful visit; we've got a whole bunch of new things to look at, and hopefully we gave the folks at Microsoft some useful ideas about areas in which they could work with us and with other open source projects."Ars Technica has abrief summary.Comment: The Vista Compatibility Lab is part of Microsoft's standard approach to helping independent software vendors, many of whom have staff permanently based in Microsoft's offices in Redmond. (In the case of some large vendors, such as Symantec, Microsoft also has full time staff assigned to work with them.) This particular expedition attracted attention because it's the first time Microsoft has offered the facilities it provides to commercial developers to an open source project.
Yesterday I criticised Vivendi for wasting the development budget of 'Scarface: The Exploitative GTA Clone is Yours' on a big Hollywood-produced titles sequence. Another example of videogame publishers trying to gain mainstream cache by buying in movie talent, I blustered. Then, a few minutes after posting, EA sent me a press release proclaiming that actress Hilary Duff would be 'starring' in Sims 2 Pets."Hilary is the perfect partner for The Sims 2 Pets - not only is she a huge animal lover, but she is also a Sims fan!" exclaimed Rod Humble, executive producer for The Sims Division of Electronic Arts. "Hilary was involved in every step of the process, from creating the Hilary and Lola characters to designing some of the tricks dogs can do in the game."Is this the most random, impossible-to-predict piece of celebrity placement ever conceived?Well, perhaps not, as Duff seems worryingly attached to her real-life pet, Lola, a two year old Blue Fawn Teacup Chihuahua - who also appears in the game. "We can't wait to hang at Central Town Park, play with other pups and shop around for the latest pet accessories! Check out her blog for updates on her videogame fandom at www.hilaryduff.com," squeals the star of Cheaper By The Dozen 2. What is it about young American celebrities and their tiny shivering canines?In fact, what is it about dogs in games? After the mega-success of Nintendogs, the world has gone pet sim crazy. No less than three puppy games were released on mobile phone over the last few months - Dogz from Gameloft, My Little Dogs from Living Mobile and My Dog by i-Play. According to EA, when the publisher asked Sims fans what they most wanted to see in the game, a massive majority said pets. I wonder where facile celebrity endorsements were on the list?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
It's all a bit hazy at the moment but last night's videogame BAFTAs was a decent stab at sexing up the games industry, even if some of the winners were bizarre. Is Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter really the best game? Host Vernon Kay at least appeared to have played a game in the last 10 years - Ubisoft will have been pleased with his regular references to Ghost Recon - and there was a definite coming of age feeling. Read on for the winners and who I think should have won.The winners are in bold...INNOVATIONDr Kawashima's BRAIN TRAINING: How Old Is Your Brain? (Nintendo/Nintendo)- Worthy winner, though Katamari deserved something from the night.. Electroplankton (Nintendo/Nintendo) Guitar Hero (RedOctane/Harmonix Music Systems Inc) LocoRoco (Sony Computer Entertainment Europe(SCEE)/Sony Computer Entertainment Japan(SCEJ)) Shadow of the Colossus (SCEE/Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. (SCEI)) We Love Katamari (Electronic Arts/Namco)ARTISTIC ACHIEVEMENT Black (EA Games/Criterion Games) Hitman: Blood Money (Eidos Interactive/IO Interactive) LocoRoco (SCEE)/ (SCEJ)Shadow of the Colossus (SCEE/(SCEI))- Had to be really, and seeing it again on the big screen reminded me what a statement this game is. How Hitman was nominated is beyond me. The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion (2K Games/Bethesda Games Studios) We Love Katamari (Electronic Arts/Namco)CHARACTER Agent 47 in Hitman: Blood Money (Eidos Interactive/IO Interactive) Han Solo in Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy (LucasArts/Traveller's Tales) Lara Croft in Tomb Raider: Legend (Eidos Interactive/Crystal Dynamics)LocoRoco in LocoRoco (SCEE/SCEJ)- It was a good night for Sony - and how they need it - with LocoRoco picking up an award which, to be honest, sums up the lack of decent game characters. Rogue in Rogue Trooper (Eidos Interactive/Rebellion &amp; 2000AD)STRATEGY Age of Empires: The Age Of Kings (Majesco/Backbone) Football Manager 2006 (Sega Europe/Sports Interactive) Medieval II Total War (Sega Europe/Creative Assembly)Rise And Fall: Civilizations At War (Midway/ Midway)- I went to the loo during this one. Sid Meier's Civilization IV Warlords (2K Games/Firaxis Games) Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft/Ubisoft Paris)CASUAL &amp; SOCIALBuzz!: The BIG Quiz (SCEE/Relentless Software)- Had to be really - Buzz was a worthy winner. Dr Kawashima's BRAIN TRAINING: How Old Is Your Brain? (Nintendo/Nintendo) Electroplankton (Nintendo/Nintendo) Guitar Hero (RedOctane/Harmonix Music Systems, Inc) LocoRoco (SCEE/SCEJ) SingStar Rocks! (SCEE/SCEE)SCREENPLAY 24: The Game (SCEE/SCEE)Psychonauts (Majesco/DoubleFine)- The most deserved award of the night. Rogue Trooper (Eidos Interactive/Rebellion &amp; 2000 AD) The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion (2K Games/Bethesda Games Studios) Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft/Ubisoft Paris) Tomb Raider: Legend (Eidos Interactive/Crystal Dynamics)CHILDREN'S Daxter (SCEE/Ready At Dawn) Ice Age II: The Meltdown (Vivendi Games/Eurocom) Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy (LucasArts/Traveller's Tales)LocoRoco (SCEE/SCEJ)- Another award for Loco - but is it a kids game? New Super Mario Bros. (Nintendo/Nintendo) We Love Katamari (Electronic Arts/Namco)GAMEPLAY sponsored by Nokia N-Gage Guitar Hero (RedOctane/Harmonix Music Systems Inc)Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy (LucasArts/Traveller's Tales)- I love Lego Star Wars, but what the hell is gameplay and how do you judge it? LocoRoco (SCEE/SCEJ) The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion (2K Games/Bethesda Games Studios) Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft/Ubisoft Paris) We Love Katamari (Electronic Arts/Namco)SIMULATION C-130 Hercules (Just Flight/Captain Sim) Championship Manager 2006 (Eidos Interactive/Beautiful Game Studios) Football Manager 2006 (Sega Europe/Sports Interactive) Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis (Take-Two Interactive/Rockstar San Diego)The Movies (Feral Interactive/Lionhead Studios)- The obligatory Molyneux award, but at least Champ Manager 6 didn't win. Trauma Center: Under The Knife (Nintendo/Atlus)MULTIPLAYER 2006 FIFA World Cup (Electronic Sports/EA Canada) Animal Crossing: Wild World (Nintendo/Nintendo) Battlefield 2: Modern Combat (EA Games/Digital Illusions)Dungeons &amp; Dragons Online: Stormreach (Atari/Turbine)- Atari didn't even turn up to collect their award! Clearly they didn't think D&amp;D deserved it either. That, or they couldn't afford a ticket to the event. Guild Wars Factions (NCsoft/ArenaNet) Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft/Ubisoft Paris)ACTION &amp; ADVENTURE sponsored by PC World Metroid Prime: Hunters (Nintendo/Nintendo)Shadow of the Colossus (SCEE/(SCEI))- I'd have given this to Oblivion - along with Katamari it was the real bridesmaid of the evening. The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion (2K Games/The Bethesda Games Studios) Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft/Ubisoft Paris) Tomb Raider: Legend (Eidos Interactive/Crystal Dynamics) We Love Katamari (Electronic Arts/Namco)TECHNICAL ACHIEVEMENT sponsored by Skillset Battlefield 2: Modern Combat (EA Games/Digital Illusions) Black (EA Games/Criterion Games) Burnout Revenge (Electronic Arts/Criterion Games) Just Cause (Eidos Interactive/Avalanche Studios) Shadow of the Colossus (SCEE/SCEI)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft/Ubisoft Paris)- Just Cause (environment) or Black (maxing-out the PS2), surely.SPORTS 2006 FIFA World Cup (EA Sports/EA Canada)Fight Night Round 3 (EA Sports/EA Chicago)- Seeing as it is actually out - unlike PES6 - and damn fine, especially online, you have to say this was the right choice. Football Manager 2006 (Sega Europe/Sports Interactive) Moto GP 06 (THQ/Climax) Pro Evolution Soccer 6 (Konami/Konami Computer Entertainment Tokyo (KCAT)) Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis (Take-Two Interactive/Rockstar San Diego)ORIGINAL SCORE Dragon Quest: The Journey of the Cursed King (Square Enix/Level 5) LocoRoco (SCEE/SCEJ) Shadow of the Colossus (SCEE/SCEI) The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion (2K Games/Bethesda Games Studios) The Movies (Feral Interactive/ Lionhead Studios)Tomb Raider: Legend (Eidos Interactive/Crystal Dynamics)- Yeah, go on then.SOUNDTRACK B-Boy (SCEE/FreeStyleGames)Guitar Hero (RedOctane/Harmonix Music Systems Inc)- Er, pardon? A slightly pointless award goes to probably the right winner. Reservoir Dogs (Eidos Interactive/Volatile Games) SingStar Rocks! (SCEE/SCEE)AUDIO Black (EA Games/Criterion Games)Electroplankton (Nintendo/Nintendo)- Great stuff - sounded even better after wine and champagne. LocoRoco (SCEE/SCEJ) Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft/Ubisoft Paris) Tomb Raider: Legend (Eidos Interactive/Crystal Dynamics) We Love Katamari (Electronic Arts/Namco)GAME sponsored by PC World Black (EA Games/Criterion Games) Dr Kawashima's BRAIN TRAINING: How Old Is Your Brain? (Nintendo/Nintendo) Guitar Hero (RedOctane/Harmonix Music Systems Inc) Hitman: Blood Money (Eidos Interactive/IO Interactive) Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy (LucasArts/Traveller's Tales)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft/Ubisoft Paris)- Good yes, but there are plenty better, most of which weren't nominated.The Gamers' Award, Sponsored by Nokia N-Gage ( and voted for by readers of The Sun's 'Something for the Weekend')Tetris Mania Sonic The Hedgehog Part One Namco Classic's Pac-Man Diner Dash24: The Mobile Game- Utterly utterly pointless. The Sims Civilization for N-Gage Who Wants To Be A Millionaire Lemmings Platinum Soduku
Game designer Ernest Adams has written anexcellent analysisof the types of products which players view as "highbrow" computer games. I commiserate with his dismay of the attitudes of many of the people who wrote in to argue that games shouldnotbe high art because they do their job for them and that should be enough (what a short-sighted, small-minded view). I'm also saddened that there are still so few truly great artistic efforts in the annals of interactive entertainment. Those titles which Adams received from a call in a column at Gamasutra are the same ones that keep coming up again and again and again. While this attests to their universal acceptance as the best of the best, it's not encouraging.He also discusses some of the reasons why to date it's been so difficult to produce highbrow games. In all, his analysis is excellent, and worth a read.
"According to research from Nielsen/NetRatings, people are buying cutting-edge technology but often don't understand the terms that describe what their device actually does," reportsBBC News. For example:35% of online Brits had heard the term podcasting but didn't know what it meant and a quarter had never heard of it. Similarly with blogging, 34% said they had heard of it but weren't sure what it meant."Some of the figures surprised us," said Mr Burmaster [internet analyst with Nielsen/NetRatings]. "It is important to remember that this is a survey of people who are already online so the numbers among the general population will be even higher."Comment: Not sure why they keep picking on geekspeak. I bet a survey of the general population would find most people don't understand half the jargon and abbreviations used in the sports, fashion and financial services industries either.
Today's technology section has an interview with Jim Lanzone, the CEO of Ask.com (What happened after they killed the butler). There's more on Teoma, which is the search engine that does Ask.com searches, from Kevin Maney at USA Today, inWhat's Teoma, you ask? You could ask Jeeves, but he's become ... Teoma.However, asSearch Engine Watchpoints out: "The time they are referencing to turning off Ask.com is February 2005. That is actually not true, Teoma has been powering Ask for at least three years now. It did not happen when Ask.com changed their name from Ask Jeeves to Ask.com."In passing, Ask's previous CEO, Steve Berkowitz, washired by Microsoftto join MSN.
Another week, another game awards ceremony, although tonight'sBAFTAsare more relevant than most, if only because they reward, "artistic, creative and technical innovation within all aspects of the video games industry," rather than best retail marketing campaign or something. I'm heading over to tonight's event in Camden - the tux has been hired - and am already predicting that host Vernon Kay will be saying the words "brain", "training" and "winner" more than once. Anyway, the nominations are...INNOVATION Dr Kawashima's BRAIN TRAINING: How Old Is Your Brain? (Nintendo/Nintendo) Electroplankton (Nintendo/Nintendo) Guitar Hero (RedOctane/Harmonix Music Systems Inc) LocoRoco (Sony Computer Entertainment Europe(SCEE)/Sony Computer Entertainment Japan(SCEJ)) Shadow of the Colossus (SCEE/Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. (SCEI)) We Love Katamari (Electronic Arts/Namco)ARTISTIC ACHIEVEMENT Black (EA Games/Criterion Games) Hitman: Blood Money (Eidos Interactive/IO Interactive) LocoRoco (SCEE)/ (SCEJ) Shadow of the Colossus (SCEE/(SCEI)) The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion (2K Games/Bethesda Games Studios) We Love Katamari (Electronic Arts/Namco)CHARACTER Agent 47 in Hitman: Blood Money (Eidos Interactive/IO Interactive) Han Solo in Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy (LucasArts/Traveller's Tales) Lara Croft in Tomb Raider: Legend (Eidos Interactive/Crystal Dynamics) LocoRoco in LocoRoco (SCEE/SCEJ) Rogue in Rogue Trooper (Eidos Interactive/Rebellion &amp; 2000AD)STRATEGY Age of Empires: The Age Of Kings (Majesco/Backbone) Football Manager 2006 (Sega Europe/Sports Interactive) Medieval II Total War (Sega Europe/Creative Assembly) Rise And Fall: Civilizations At War (Midway/ Midway) Sid Meier's Civilization IV Warlords (2K Games/Firaxis Games) Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft/Ubisoft Paris)CASUAL &amp; SOCIAL Buzz!: The BIG Quiz (SCEE/Relentless Software) Dr Kawashima's BRAIN TRAINING: How Old Is Your Brain? (Nintendo/Nintendo) Electroplankton (Nintendo/Nintendo) Guitar Hero (RedOctane/Harmonix Music Systems, Inc) LocoRoco (SCEE/SCEJ) SingStar Rocks! (SCEE/SCEE)SCREENPLAY 24: The Game (SCEE/SCEE) Psychonauts (Majesco/DoubleFine) Rogue Trooper (Eidos Interactive/Rebellion &amp; 2000 AD) The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion (2K Games/Bethesda Games Studios) Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft/Ubisoft Paris) Tomb Raider: Legend (Eidos Interactive/Crystal Dynamics)CHILDREN'S Daxter (SCEE/Ready At Dawn) Ice Age II: The Meltdown (Vivendi Games/Eurocom) Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy (LucasArts/Traveller's Tales) LocoRoco (SCEE/SCEJ) New Super Mario Bros. (Nintendo/Nintendo) We Love Katamari (Electronic Arts/Namco)GAMEPLAY sponsored by Nokia N-Gage Guitar Hero (RedOctane/Harmonix Music Systems Inc) Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy (LucasArts/Traveller's Tales) LocoRoco (SCEE/SCEJ) The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion (2K Games/Bethesda Games Studios) Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft/Ubisoft Paris) We Love Katamari (Electronic Arts/Namco)SIMULATION C-130 Hercules (Just Flight/Captain Sim) Championship Manager 2006 (Eidos Interactive/Beautiful Game Studios) Football Manager 2006 (Sega Europe/Sports Interactive) Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis (Take-Two Interactive/Rockstar San Diego) The Movies (Feral Interactive/Lionhead Studios) Trauma Center: Under The Knife (Nintendo/Atlus)MULTIPLAYER 2006 FIFA World Cup (Electronic Sports/EA Canada) Animal Crossing: Wild World (Nintendo/Nintendo) Battlefield 2: Modern Combat (EA Games/Digital Illusions) Dungeons &amp; Dragons Online: Stormreach (Atari/Turbine) Guild Wars Factions (NCsoft/ArenaNet) Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft/Ubisoft Paris)ACTION &amp; ADVENTURE sponsored by PC World Metroid Prime: Hunters (Nintendo/Nintendo) Shadow of the Colossus (SCEE/(SCEI)) The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion (2K Games/The Bethesda Games Studios) Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft/Ubisoft Paris) Tomb Raider: Legend (Eidos Interactive/Crystal Dynamics) We Love Katamari (Electronic Arts/Namco)TECHNICAL ACHIEVEMENT sponsored by Skillset Battlefield 2: Modern Combat (EA Games/Digital Illusions) Black (EA Games/Criterion Games) Burnout Revenge (Electronic Arts/Criterion Games) Just Cause (Eidos Interactive/Avalanche Studios) Shadow of the Colossus (SCEE/SCEI) Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft/Ubisoft Paris)SPORTS 2006 FIFA World Cup (EA Sports/EA Canada) Fight Night Round 3 (EA Sports/EA Chicago) Football Manager 2006 (Sega Europe/Sports Interactive) Moto GP 06 (THQ/Climax) Pro Evolution Soccer 6 (Konami/Konami Computer Entertainment Tokyo (KCAT)) Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis (Take-Two Interactive/Rockstar San Diego)ORIGINAL SCORE Dragon Quest: The Journey of the Cursed King (Square Enix/Level 5) LocoRoco (SCEE/SCEJ) Shadow of the Colossus (SCEE/SCEI) The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion (2K Games/Bethesda Games Studios) The Movies (Feral Interactive/ Lionhead Studios) Tomb Raider: Legend (Eidos Interactive/Crystal Dynamics)SOUNDTRACK B-Boy (SCEE/FreeStyleGames) Guitar Hero (RedOctane/Harmonix Music Systems Inc) Reservoir Dogs (Eidos Interactive/Volatile Games) SingStar Rocks! (SCEE/SCEE)AUDIO Black (EA Games/Criterion Games) Electroplankton (Nintendo/Nintendo) LocoRoco (SCEE/SCEJ) Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft/Ubisoft Paris) Tomb Raider: Legend (Eidos Interactive/Crystal Dynamics) We Love Katamari (Electronic Arts/Namco)GAME sponsored by PC World Black (EA Games/Criterion Games) Dr Kawashima's BRAIN TRAINING: How Old Is Your Brain? (Nintendo/Nintendo) Guitar Hero (RedOctane/Harmonix Music Systems Inc) Hitman: Blood Money (Eidos Interactive/IO Interactive) Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy (LucasArts/Traveller's Tales) Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft/Ubisoft Paris)The Gamers' Award, Sponsored by Nokia N-Gage ( and voted for by readers of The Sun's 'Something for the Weekend') Tetris Mania Sonic The Hedgehog Part One Namco Classic's Pac-Man Diner Dash 24: The Mobile Game The Sims Civilization for N-Gage Who Wants To Be A Millionaire Lemmings Platinum Soduku
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
If you have &pound;70 to spare, you could buy access to what the government calls "the official online directory for all government departments, executive agencies and related organisations" which you can find at at the Civil Service Year Book web page (www.civil-service.co.uk). The site provides names and contact details of nearly 4,000 civil servants, and accompanies paper copies of an 800-page volume called the Civil Service Year Book.But don't we pay civil servants' salaries, through our taxes? Indeed. And yet the penalties for sharing that login - say, by putting it in this piece - include imprisonment and fines running at triple the cost of each subscription violation. According to the Guardian's lawyers, printing a username and password would violate section 18 of the Copyright Act - "infringement by issue of copies to the public" - and section 107, "communicating the work to the public in the course of a business".But why should citizens be fined for telling each other about the citizens who work for them? We argue that this data should be available for free. As well as strengthening public accountability, free access to lists of public officials would allow the start-up of new online businesses based on public sector information - the case at the heart of Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign.The Civil Service Year Book exemplifies the confusion that arises when government bodies try to mix public functions with commercial ventures. On its front page, the directory carries the logo and authority of the Cabinet Office, the Whitehall department responsible for administering the administrators.However, it is produced by The Stationery Office, a venture created in 1996, when the government privatised what it saw as the commercially viable activities of Her Majesty's Stationery Office. The remaining statutory functions of HMSO were taken over by the Office of Public Sector Information (OPSI), which acts as gatekeeper to the government's vast treasure house of data held under crown copyright, and which the Free Our Data campaign argues should be opened for free to all takers.The office contracts TSO to provide "a comprehensive range of official publishing solutions", including producing sensitive documents such as the budget. It also manages more than 80 government websites. As a result, TSO is Britain's largest publisher. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Stationery Office Holdings Ltd, 71% of whose shares are owned by Apax Venture Capital Partners; the remainder are held by TSO's managers and employees.The yearbook is one of the publications produced for OPSI, which sets the &pound;70 price, a spokesman said. The price is not the only revenue stream, there is also advertising. Clients include Cisco Systems, PA Consulting and the Guardian.OPSI says that the contents are crown copyright and, as "value added" rather than raw data, are not available under a free "click use" electronic licence.But freedom of information campaigners say this restriction is outrageous. They point to the growing practice in the US, where organisations such as the City of Seattle publish a directory of all public employees online (www.seattle.gov/directory). For Whitehall, such an online service could be based on the directory of the Government Telephone Network, a private network run by Cable &amp; Wireless.The two possible arguments against making the data available for free - that they might impinge on personal data, or that they might help terrorists - have no merit. In the first case, the data are not personal but about public servants. In the second, the data are already available: a &pound;70 hurdle is hardly a deterrent.The suspicion with the current arrangement is that Sir Humphrey feels comfortable sharing his phone number with someone who has &pound;70 in their pocket - but not with unwashed trolls on the web.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:www.freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Days before the release of the game and following on from some very mixed reviews, Vivendi has been showing off about the, 'epic opening title sequence' to its movie tie-in, Scarface: the World is Yours. In a press release sent out yesterday the company revealed that it called in the services of Prologue Films and its founder, Kyle Cooper, previously responsible for some of the most important, artful movie title sequences since Saul Bass (Se7en, Spider-Man, Dawn of the Dead, etc).From the Hollywood-hugging release:"With a franchise as revered as Scarface, every element in the game must meet only the highest standards while creating the feel of viewing a Hollywood-produced sequel. By partnering with Prologue Films, Sierra Entertainment has ensured that the game's commitment to quality will be evident from the first moments of the game..."There are some fundamentally disturbing insinuations in this typically soulless piece of PR double speak...Notice the conspicuous use of the wordviewing. No, playing a game shouldn't be likeviewinga Hollywood film. It should - if you absolutely must use this example - be likebeing ina Hollywood film. Playing, interacting... not viewing.And come to think of it, should we really be holding Hollywood up as a paragon of creative brilliance? It's just another example of the videogame industry desperately trying to win itself some cache by cosying up to the film business. Very similar in fact to all the hoo-ha surrounding Peter Jackson's move into videogame production. So, he's made a few successful films - does that automatically make him a wonderful game designer? No one, as far as I know, suspects that Peter Molyneux's success in gaming marks him out as the next Spieberg.As for the concept of a videogame actuallyneedinga title sequence... Nonsense. Okay, Half-Life did this brilliantly, and Medal of Honor's Normandy beach landing opener was clever, but videogames are about immediacy and interactivity. They are not, despite the sometimes essential presence of the prerendered sequence, about viewing.Appropriating the conventions of the movie industry really does nothing toimprovea game. This is lazy thinking - but then, you can't blame them. It's easier to buy in movie actors, movie soundtracks and movie opening sequences than it is to get 70 incredibly talented people into an office for two years to build a game that actually does the job of conveying a film, just through the gameplay itself. And with the money and graphical technology available to purloin Hollywood talent for some cheap PR, who cares? There may never be another GoldenEye.
This has probably gone round the net three times without me noticing, but type "search" into Google.com and see what you get.... then type the same word into MSN Live Search, ditto. Well, it amused me.
Do you think the Sony PlayStation 3 will be launched in the UK come March next year, or are further delays inevitable? Would you recommend purchase of an Xbox 360, as it seems to be an established next-generation console? Darryl NessThere is no simple reply because different people have different needs. "Early adopters" want hot products as soon as they come out, even if it means a pricey console that still has bugs and few games. "Late adopters" wait to get the most stable system at the lowest possible price, but will have missed out on a couple of years of fun. Most of us are somewhere inbetween.If the PS3 does appear in March 2007, it could be a good choice for early adopters and keen Sony fans. If you are one of those, pre-order as soon as possible. But most people should wait until we see how it performs, more games appear, and prices settle down. Sony will need to reach that stage by Christmas 07.In particular, it's important to see just how compatible the PS3 is with Sony's earlier machines. If it has no problems running PS2 and PSone games, this could be a powerful argument for buying a PS3.A year ago, the Xbox 360 was the console for early adopters, but this Christmas it should reach the mainstream. It has enough good games to make it viable, and the forthcoming selection looks outstanding. If you have broadband, Xbox Live Arcade is almost a "killer app", and there's also the built-in Windows Media Extender that can take films and music from your PC to your TV, much like Apple's forthcoming iTV, but with a powerful games console thrown in free. All this could make it worth buying, even if you hope to get a PS3 later.There's an extra complication with the next generation of games consoles, in that it will also affect the battle between the two blue-ray based movie playing systems, Blu-ray and HD-DVD. Blu-ray players currently cost $1,000 (£530) in the US, and Sony has built one into the PS3. This makes it a good deal if you have a high-definition TV set and want to buy Blu-ray movies - but few people do.DVD players cost about $25 and that's what you get in an Xbox 360, which is one reason why it costs much less to make. Instead, Microsoft plans to offer a cheap (£130) HD-DVD add-on this Christmas, and it could offer an add-on Blu-ray player later. I like this approach because it's far too soon to commit to one format, especially since both could fail.Othewise there are still plenty of games coming out for the PS2 and the PC, so the risk averse can wait and see.
I've just installed Firefox and see that it has a "safe mode". If I use unsafe mode, what effect will it have on Windows and Internet Explorer? Jeremy JamesMost Firefox users install extensions (https://addons.mozilla.org/extensions.php?app=firefox) and themes to customise it. Sometimes these cause problems. Safe Mode lets you start Firefox with no extensions, themes or customisations, temporarily, so you can remove the offending add-on. The opposite of Safe Mode is not unsafe! You don't need to change Windows or IE.
Can you recommend reliable software to download in order to access IZArc zip files? I have seen freesoftware4all mentioned. Sue BurtIZArc is a file compression utility that used to be called IZip. But if things work correctly, you shouldn't be able to tell if a file was zipped with IZArc or WinZip etc, and any unzipper should decompress it. If you just want to download a copy of IZArc or any other program, the home site is usually the best option. In this case, go tohttp://www.izarc.org/
Can I buy an electric car today in the UK? Are they available to the disabled? Ivor NorrisYou can buy a G-Wiz fromGoinGreen, and there's the Mega City, fromNice. Other options could include the Maranello 4, Microcar Zenn and the Aixam Mega Van. These seem most viable as London town cars. See the EV UK site (www.evuk.co.uk) for more information.The Daimler-Chrysler Gem looked most suitable for disabled users (seeBBC News) but seems to have disappeared. The Zev Ltd site (http://www.zevltd.com/) only offers Maxi scooters.
A few weeks ago, a gaggle of 110 academics and professionals wrote a letter to the Daily Telegraph (as a teaser for the DT's "hold onto childhood" campaign) condemning the modern world and its potential effects on the nation's youth. "As professionals and academics from a range of backgrounds, we are deeply concerned at the escalating incidence of childhood depression and children's behavioural and developmental conditions," the letter began. It continued with a bizarre call for action that seems inherently out of step with today's culture.My first thought about the letter (full texthere) was that it demonstrates that these people - authors, researchers, professionals - have fallen into the classic trap: they don't "get" youth. They don't understand youth culture. They don't recognise that youth is a powerful population which has its own rules, regulations and autonomy. The letter-writers call for a dramatic re-think of contemporary society, with its "fast-moving hyper-competitive culture", its "ever more rapid technological and cultural change" and its "market forces", yet is utterly unreflexive in how they - as part of this society - have helped to create it. And how their parents felt the same way.My second thought was that they condemn the trappings of today's society - fast food, electronic screen-based entertainment, and an over-protective culture of control - yet do they send their children out to play or do they keep them satisfied, responding to the "pester power" people were bemoaning only a few years ago, and request that they stay inside lest they fall prey to a real or imagined external harm?With regards to the electronic entertainment which they allude to, there is a lack of recognition for the positive mental exercise which games and other interactive pleasures provide, and, as Henry Jenkins at MIT theorises, the escape which players/users experience via these electronic media in a world which doensn't allow them outside the front door in case they meet with an uncontrollable sticky end.The next day, the DT launched its nominal (propaganda) campaign, and the manycommentswhich readers left were thoughtful and reflected the concerns parents throughout the last centuries have experienced. Many of them considered "respect" to be an issue. Well, youth culture also demands respect.The deterministic approach which this conglomerate proposes - that culture creates the individual without any agency or self-choice - is a harrowing invective on the world in which these kids, arguably in need of "protection", will grow up.Sure, stop feeding kids junk, make them go outside and limit their time with mobile phones and computer games. We are responsible for the world which these authors and professionals are so upset by. Instead of passing the buck (and preaching to an audience of the converted, I'm sure), start locally and recognise that this rapidly changing world is exciting, new and full of the possibilities which we enjoyed, when parents were dismayed by the effects of a culture driven mad by the music of the Beatles and corrupted by the messages broadcast by television.
We receive far more letters than we can print on paper. So here's what we chose from, in full..STEP IN THE WRONG DIRECTION "Energy... in the average human step, roughly eight watts" (A step in the right direction, 28/9). Oh dear. Confusing power (energy per second, measured in Watts) and energy (measured in Joules) is, sadly, all too common. Any chance we could have a version of that interesting article edited by a physicist? The number of Joules per step would start to give an indication of what might be possible with this technology. Tom Ward, NorwichFollowing the problem with volts and power from last week I note that you have again a problem with power and energy: A step in the right direction by Danny Bradbury , Technology p1-2. I col.1 it says '...captured some of the energy discharged in the average human step, roughly eight watts, ...'.In col.2 there is '...five to eight watts could be recovered from each footfall, ...'. On p2 col.1 again 'You can convert about 3-6W per step' and 'There are many kilowatts of energy that we could be harvesting ...'. (Could we see Claire Price's calculations on how to power around 6.5million LED lights?) Like many other articles in the Guardian (and energy is now a matter frequently written about) you do not seem to appreciate the difference between energy and power. Power, in these cases measured in watt, is a rate given by energy (in Joule) per second. For example, a high power laser can generate a power of say 1 Terawatt (probably more than is needed to power the whole of the UK) but since this may last for a picosecond the amount of energy expended is only 1 Joule. If for example a 2kw kettle takes 3minutes to boil the energy input is 360000J. Energy is what is required to do useful work and is what you pay for to the gas and electricity companies. Look at your electricity meter and you will see that it reads kilowatt-hour. And by the way, what does the 'bigger power kick' at the end of the article mean? Is it some form of kung-fu movement? If all this energy is to be 'harvested' where do you think it comes from? The principle of conservation of energy is still one of the foundation stones of physics. It can only come from the person walking so you will be expending more energy in walking than you would in normal circumstances and people would tire more quickly. Thus only useful for those keen on exercising more. Sounds like a pretty unattractive proposition to me, and I hope Trevor Bayliss was not wearing such shoes in his trek across the desert in Namibia. Not the place to out in the midday sun. And as for the wobbly bridge, the more energy you extract from it the more it will be damped and consequently the energy output would be reduced i.e. it would just be an electromagnetic form of damping. Dr Scott Hamilton, Cheadle, CheshireI was interested to read Danny Bradbury's piece on activity generated power, "A step in the right direction". Just one thing concerned me. The strap line stated that scientists were doing it all, yet the article was clearly describing the work of engineers. The fact that your "technology" section doesn't know the difference between scientists and engineers is something you seem to share with a large slice of the UK population. I'm an engineer and NOT a scientist. The engineering profession is the largest profession in the country. Scientists are a smaller but just as prestigeous profession. There are both Chartered Engineers and Chartered Scientists. Our activities are closely related, and sometimes overlap, but they are not the same thing. This general lack of understanding, is one of the reasons why it is becoming more difficult to recruit to both engineering and science degree courses, with the consequent shortages accross many industries. Perhaps an article illustrating the differences would help. Colin Ledsome, London'8 Watts per step'? '3-6 Watt per step'? Dudes! What makes it even worse is that you get it right elswhere: 'A typist can generate 19 milliwatts'. The watt is a rate unit, similar to speed (Watts are Joules per second, speed is meters per second). 'Watts per step' is sheer luddite nonsense. I expect I'm not the first to point this out, and I most certainly won't be the last. Prepare yourself for the deluge! Glenys Williams-Hesse, WantageDanny Bradbury's "A step in the right direction" repeatedly refers to energy as measured in watts. The watt is a measure of power. The measure for energy would be, for example, watt hours. Perhaps a technically competent person should be hired as proof reader for the Technology area of The Guardian. Or do you rely entirely on spelling checkers ? Interesting article otherwise, but wouldn't it be more effective to wear a piezoelectric chest strap under your singlet or pyjama top ? Keep the lungs well exercised, too. From one who once worked with hot metal typesetting, Neville Holmes, Dilston, TasmaniaI have never understood why, in the way bicycles create their own lighting, the wheels on trains which just bogie (i.e. those which are not drive wheels) cannot be used to provide power for lighting and air conditioning. Georgeanne Slater, LondonReading your article reminded me that the Spanish government recently passed a law for all new buildings and houses to have solar panels installed on their roofs, a great idea since we receive so much solar energy thought the year, so might as well use the sun to cut down on conventional electrical sources. Jorge, Spain [no other details given]VISTA VS ANTIVIRUS COMPANIESMicrosoft IS trying to make money by improving security measures. Microsoft's OS is full of security flaws, and every security hole has a much higher chance of being exploited because the Microsoft OS is the most widely used OS. Because of these security holes a larger number of people are switching over to other OSes. It is also why Mozilla Firefox is also gaining a larger and larger user base. In fact, Firefox has been found to contain more holes and errors than Microsoft IE- and yet Firefox still gains a larger base of users because its flaws are less exploited. It is easy to extrapolate that if Microsoft does not fix these holes then they will lose customers- and thus money. Thus they make A LOT of money by even trying to fix the security flaws. And even more when you quote them saying they are doing ti simply to insure customer safety. Sohail Anwar, New York City&gt;&gt; One can easily see how Symantec might consider this "confusing for customers." Before, they had one easy, clear choice: re-up their subscription or have no protection. Now they have choices, and that can be so confusing. I can certainly see why Symantec might dislike a change in Windows Vista that stops them from disabling WSC and, incidentially, ensures customers can easily find several choices for protection.http://blogs.technet.com/security/default.aspxCLICKPRINTS &gt;&gt; This is bogus. Even if they can often distinguish between me and another anonymous person, it wont be 100% correct. I don't want to be considered for fraud under my own cards.http://www.driverheaven.net/showthread.php?t=119669SETH FINKELSTEIN &gt;&gt; On the mailing list WikiEN-L, Steve Summit identifies a law of Wikipedia that should become known as the Finkelstein Paradox -- a subject who argues he doesn't belong in Wikipedia is more likely to remain in Wikipedia.http://www.cadenhead.org/workbench/news/3031/want-out-wikipedia-fight-stayCHIP AND FRENCH PINInteresting article but Kate's experiences with French petrol pumps were caused by a different sort of problem. As far as I know these pumps currently only take French credit cards, not UK ones. They've had chip and pin for a lot longer than we have but I've also found that some restaurants etc still require a signature, not a PIN, for UK cards. Colin Blakemore, LondonION TURNTABLE (CONT'D)May I assure Barbara Robinson (Letters, 28 September) that I am not sniffy about the Ion turntable? I am sure it is an excellent product. What I am sniffy about is Ashley Norris's claim (14 September) that other methods of transferring LPs to CD are 'for the most part ...not very effective'. Allan Jones, Yardley Gobion, NorthamptonshireINKJET PRINTERS (CONT'D)About the time of your piece on inkjet cartridges on 14 September my printer gave up the ghost, and reassured that I would still be able to buy cheap cloned cartridges I replaced my Epson inkjet with another Epson. However when today I went to Cartridgemonkey for cartridges for the new printer I found a grovelling page of praise for genuine Epson cartridges but no sign of cheap clones any more. Did Epson read your article and fly into a rage? Penny Munday, Havant"Epson people are no fools" (Letters, September 21)? Well, they have a foolish approach to customers, which gives them no long term future. My experience with their C80 printer means I will never buy another Epson printer. The drawbacks include very expensive ink cartridges, which are not accepted by recyclers for refilling. A fixed print head makes servicing difficult and expensive. The printer wastes lots of ink every time it is switched on - see http://www2.shopping.com/xPR-Epson_Stylus_C80~RD-65809583748. The print nozzles block easily when printer not used ( e.g. you go away on holiday) and are very difficult to unblock. See http://www.gatago.com/comp/periphs/printers/4063985.html . Never again! David J Jones, KnutsfordRIM/BLACKBERRY I understand that RIM/Blackberry has disrupted its service to many of its existing customers in the process of switching them to a new server. Vodafone has told me that this could take till Oct 16th till it is completed. This was done with absolutely no warning and left many people – including me – wondering why the service had suddenly ceased. I'm appalled at the way RIM have behaved – is it a coincidence that this happened at the same time as they announced their results? They deserve negative publicity for this, and I hope you'll give them some. Steven Burkeman, YorkUBUNTU 28th September 2006 - Clinton speaks to the Labour conference, behind him a sign highlighting ubuntu ... is this the first time a Linux distribution has featured in a Steve Bell cartoon ? Mike Whittaker, Stapleton, ShropshireROADWORKS DATABASEThe article written by Michael Cross and published in "Technology Guardian" on 21 September 2006 is a welcome discussion on the subject of buried apparatus in our road structure, however having Chaired the Institution of Civil Engineers/ Institution of Civil Engineering Surveyors Buried Services Working Group (BSWG) there are a number of points that require clarification. * The suggestion that some prodding from government was required to create the National Underground Assets Group is incorrect. NUAG was formed as a direct result of the BSWG report published in February 2005 and not by any form of prodding from government. It should be noted that the Department for Transport have been very supportive of the efforts of the BSWG and NUAG but they have not attempted to influence either group. * There is a suggestion that a code of practice for buried assets is a new concept and that government need some form of persuasion to accept such a document, both of which are incorrect. The National Joint Utilities Group (NJUG) produced a Code of practice some time ago and has been accepted by all concerned, including government, as the norm. The code of practice currently being developed is required by all concerned to meet the commercial needs of the industry and to meet the requirements of the Traffic Management Act (2004) and the Transport (Scotland) Act (2004). Through the good efforts of NUAG and the support of DfT the new code of practice will benefit all concerned and there is no need for lobbying. * The suggestion that the coordinated system provided in Scotland is more accurate that that available in England and Wales is incorrect. The confusion of differing formats and questionable accuracy of locational data is the same throughout the UK and in the main the rest of the world. The proposals of the BSWG report that are being developed by NUAG are innovative and could be applied overseas. * Areas of national security will apply to some buried assets but very few. In the main there will be a freedom of information on aspects of buried assets that could affect the general public as has been demonstrated with the EMPRESS and ELGIN projects. It must be remembered that the data relating to these assets is in itself an asset and the companies have the right to decide who has access and if there should be a rate applied to any details that are provided outwith legal requirements. We very much welcome the Guardian's efforts in bringing to light this critical aspect of Britain's road network and we trust the clarifications above make it clear that without the bold initiatives of GEB and the two associated Institutions, very little progress would have happened. Martin Cullen
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Targeting the pain businessUS-based Raytheon is marketing microwave weapon systems that 'fill the gap between shout and shoot'. But who will use them and why, ask Steve Wright and Charles Arthur.Will the eBook finally replace paper?Four major hurdles have restricted the electronic book market: construction, cost, content and culture.Free Our Data:Why Sir Humphrey won't give us his phone numberIf you have £70 to spare, you could buy access to what the government calls "the official online directory for all government departments, executive agencies and related organisations". The site provides names and contact details of nearly 4,000 civil servants, and accompanies paper copies of an 800-page volume called the Civil Service Year Book.Trying to keep abreast of machismo in gameplayAleks Krotoski: A disproportionate amount of column inches is devoted to the shape, dimension, frequency and physics of (deep breath) the female breast in computer gaming.GamesMetal Gear Solid: Subsistence | Company of Heroes | Test Drive UnlimitedNewly Asked QuestionsDid hackers find a weakness in Apple's Wi-Fi drivers?In theory, yes. In practice, it's very unclear, and has turned into an online cause celebre ranging two security experts, David Maynor and Johnny "Cache" Ellch, against pretty much the whole of Mac-dom, including high-profile Apple enthusiasts and Apple Computer itself.Is my laptop's battery going to be recalled?Perhaps, but only if your laptop comes from Dell, Lenovo, Toshiba, Fujitsu or Apple. Which covers almost all the main portable manufacturers except HP and, oddly, Sony.Who will lobby for our right to copy?Victor Keegan: I recently committed a crime: I copied a CD I had bought on to my hard disk.TechnobileMatt Dunn: Watching TV bounced over the internet is a nifty idea, but not if you plan to watch live sports.What happened after they killed the butlerAsk.com, formerly Ask Jeeves, ranks fourth in the search engine stakes with about 5% of the market. It was bought in 2005 for $2.3bn by Barry Diller's IAC. Kate Bulkley talks to CEO Jim Lanzone.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.NewsbytesMobcharger, for emergencies | iZak does movies | Tagged at Space | Handheld Learning 2006
Metal Gear Solid: SubsistencePS2, &pound;34.99, cert 15+Konami, 4/5Don't expect a brand new Metal Gear game - this one is more of a "greatest hits", containing all three releases to date, five new multiplayer modes, a few extra gimmicks and a bucketload of videos and extras. Yes, shuffling around in a cardboard box, as you could in the first game, does look stupid now, but the gameplay is still intriguing and the 3D graphics show a distinct improvement as the timeline progresses. The gameplay is still unforgiving, with minor miscalculations forcing you to replay whole levels, but the online dimension more than compensates, especially the surreal Snake v Monkey mode. All in all, a perfect introduction to what makes stealth games so addictive.MACompany of HeroesPC, &pound;29.99, cert 15Relic/THQ, 4/5As an RTS (real time strategy) game set in the second world war, Company of Heroes makes up in style and substance what it lacks in originality. Set in the early days of the Normandy campaign, Heroes lets you fight way your way through some key battles in traditional RTS style. As you may expect, resource management - manpower, fuel and munitions - is important, but not to the detriment of the action, which is fast and fierce. Defending a bridge against a German Panzer counterattack with only small number of men and machinery is as challenging and rewarding as it sounds. Then there are the splendid graphics which depict the gritty and visceral action far better than the RTS norm. But be warned, CoH is tough. Armchair generals will be seriously challenged - the AI puts up a real fight and any success achieved is fully earned.GHTest Drive UnlimitedXbox 360, &pound;39.99, cert 3+Atari, 4/5If Test Drive Unlimited is anything to go by, life on the Hawaiian island of Oahu is easy. Oahu is definitely the star of the self-titled Massively Online Open Racing game - the entire island has been modelled, most impressively, and the storyline sees you buying a house and car and then living an idyllic fantasy life as a petrol-head. Which involves taking up challenges dotted around the island, primarily races and time trials, as well as performing car-based errands such as picking up hitch-hikers and delivering shopping-laden people to their homes. The more challenges you complete, the more money you win, enabling you to build up a portfolio of cars, which you can then take online, to race against human opposition - not that the game's AI is unimpressive. Test Drive Unlimited really comes to life online: you can devise your own challenges, set up racing clubs and generally lead the hard-driving life you've never been rich enough to enjoy in the non-virtual world. Quality stuff.SB&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Technology Guardian: You have been chief executive of Ask.com for six months but have been at the company for a little over five years. A lot has changed since Ask Jeeves, as it was known then, acquired your company, eTour, in 2001.Jim Lanzone:Yes, a lot has changed. First, eTour was definitely a Web 1.0 company, pre cost-per-click ad sales. We did cost-per-visitor, where people would sign up and give us 200 data points and we would take them on tours that would match their interests. It was cool and we did well from the advertising, but we did the whole aborted IPO thing [stock market flotation] in 2000 and lived on fumes for a while until we were bought by Ask Jeeves.TG: So you were just too early.JL:Or those who refuse to learn from history are doomed to repeat it! [laughs] I just don't know which one it is. But I will tell you that six months after I joined Ask and became head of product management, I shut down eTour along with about eight other things. At the time we were doing too many things, so one of the first things we did was pare down to focus on search.TG: So search became the focus but you also changed the whole way the Ask Jeeves product worked. That was a pretty fundamental switch.JL:The Ask Jeeves product then was editorial based with editors literally coming up with answers and creating a "technology" that would match those answers to certain questions. But then, frustratingly, you would also get back a list of more questions. The concept was revolutionary but it over-promised and under-delivered. Compare that with search engines that weren't promising anything and over-delivering!We saw that the only way to answer billions of searches was with technology and an index of billions of documents, so we had built the wrong product for search. So we got rid of that original Ask Jeeves product and replaced it with the Teoma product that we bought in late 2001. Teoma could layer across the majority of queries, and then we went about building a second generation of structured data search, which we call Smart Answers.TG: But Ask.com is still very far behind the other search engines in terms of market share, and one reason is your basic algorithmic search is not as good. So why not fix that?JL:That is true about our algorithmic search but I would also say we have the most upside potential because we are five years younger than Google. We started our search technology in 2001 with seven people. Google was started in 1996 and got to market in 1998, and by the time we were doing search they already had 100m searches a day. So they were far ahead in terms of life cycle, and then Yahoo bought Inktomi and AltaVista and larger companies.What we have is probably what I would call the best special sauce. We do the hardest part well. What we don't do well enough yet are the basics, the ingredients, the infrastructure of search that requires a lot of manpower and a lot of resources and a lot of trial and error. So I think about it like we have gourmet chefs who have been using worse ingredients to make a search engine.TG: But Google has 44% share and you have 5% share. That is a pretty big gap. You say you have more upside, but can you ever catch up?JL:I think that is the wrong way to look at it. I think this is not a zero sum game. Search is a very large market, in fact the largest online market. So even though we are fourth in search we are seventh ranked overall web property in the US, ahead of New York Times, Amazon and MySpace for user numbers. They have more page views but search isn't about page views.For us, every point of market share that we gain is very significant. A 1% gain for our competitors means they might be making a quarter of what we are making in new revenue. So if we go from 6 to 7% share, it would be 15% in revenue growth.TG: Why did you get rid of Jeeves? It seems counterintuitive to dump a brand that had some recognition. So why did you dump the butler?JL:We dumped the butler because we have become a world class, comprehensive search engine that was recognised by the search industry as one of the best. But the average consumer associated us with questions and answers, which is only 10% of the overall search market. So Jeeves was something we had to move on from if we were going to aggressively go after market share and be a legitimate player in this space. It wasn't a flippant thing.TG: With the relaunch, you've reduced the amount of ads on the search results page, which is certainly a good thing from a consumer perspective, but not so good for your revenue growth. What's the new business model now you're owned by Barry Diller's IAC?JL:The model is making more money by having more searches conducted on our site as opposed to making more money per search. So, sell more copies of the newspaper rather than having more ads per newspaper. One of the benefits of being purchased by IAC was that they gave us the air cover to reduce the number of ads from 10 at the top to only three. We also now have five at the bottom, making a maximum of eight, whereas our competitors have a maximum of 11 ads and most of them are on the first screen.TG: How badly has the cost of the relaunch hit your profitability?JL:We are still very profitable. When I joined the company in 2001 we were worth $30m, but we eventually sold for $2.3bn to IAC in 2005. The stated number at the time of the sale was 25% revenue reduction short-term. We haven't made any on the record statements since then, but you can see our market share growth and those additional searches are bringing in additional money.TG: So how long will the "air cover" from IAC last?JL:I don't think that's a stated number, but I can say that IAC share our passion for our product. We think the masses are brainwashed that search hasn't evolved beyond the search that they are used to, and Ask can help them find what they're looking for faster. IAC and Barry Diller in particular are firmly on the same page about that.TG: How do you fit in with the other IAC online products such as Match.com, Homeshopping Network, TicketMaster and lendingtree.com?JL:I would think of us as the hub of the network. We're a different animal to the other properties because they're all e-commerce properties. Search sits horizontally across the web, so the first order of business is to build up our site enough so that the traffic we send to the other sites is substantial.TG: What about expanding beyond search? Everyone else is. Google has Gmail, maps, shopping etc, Yahoo is getting into content in a big way. What are your plans beyond search?JL:The big difference for us is that we are going to stay focused on search. It is still the number one need, it's the doorway. We are going to continue to build great doorways, not destinations. The product roadmap for us is to be able to find stuff that you're looking for faster, whether it's content, commerce or community. Our first job is to become a preferred primary search engine. Now because search engines are naturally hubs to the internet, people may want email from us as a matter of convenience, but it's nowhere on our roadmap today. If there was demand, I could see us building it, but I don't see us getting into the content business. Our job is to search content, not provide it.TG: How do you see search evolving? Are search engines going to just add more and more results to a search?JL:Some 75% of clicks into a search engine happen in the top three results and 90% of users never go beyond the first page of results. So when you see it saying "now searching number one through 200,000", people are only looking for 10. And although 40% of people say they want "advanced search", less than 1% use it. So, our search suggestions on the righthand side of the page give you those clues right there. So, if you type in John Lennon, we give you Yoko Ono.Curriculum vitaeJim Lanzone, CEO of Ask.comAge35EducationBA from UCLA and JD/MBA from Emory UniversityCareer historyCo-founded information retrieval service eTour, sold to Ask Jeeves in 2001. Lanzone previously worked in product marketing for KnowX.com, one of the internet's leading providers of public record search; since 2001 has worked at Ask.com, becoming CEO in April 2006&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
First, a disclosure. I recently committed a crime: I copied a CD I had bought on to my hard disk. This is illegal under section 16 of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, which prohibits any copying in relation to "a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work", including storing it by "electronic means". I was reminded of this recent, albeit redundant, law when I was trying out Radiotracker 2, costing &pound;19.99. It is one of a number of programs that scans thousands of internet radio stations of varying legality to grab any tracks - by genre or artist - you want from those currently being played.Even if a song is halfway through, it can capture the whole track for use on a computer or music player. The program, for PCs, is apparently legal because the music comes from a radio station rather than someone else's hard disk - as long as it is for your own use. This shows what a difficult job the Gowers committee, shortly to report, has in sorting out intellectual property rights.In a digital age it looks preposterous, to consumers if not producers, that copyrights on books and songs last from 70 years after the death of the authors. These laws have left in their wake millions of "orphaned" books, which are being digitised by Google and others in order to be printed on demand - but no one knows whether the copyright holders are still alive, and it would cost too much to find out. One of the problems is that the laws have been driven by commercial rather than consumer lobbies.The record industry is slowly getting its act together, having been typically slow to see the exciting but disruptive opportunities offered by the great innovations of the internet: that extra copies cost virtually nothing to manufacture and nothing to deliver. But it is still making big mistakes by trying to impose its own digital rights management (DRM) contracts on customers, laying down what they can and can't do with a track, thereby overriding existing copyright law. Just as they have been extracting compensation from mass downloaders under threat of court action, so they are, in effect, acting as judge and jury with customers by imposing special contracts. It is very difficult to buy a track and freely play it. You buy a licence for specified formats on certain machines, maybe with a time limit imposed. If only the industry would provide interoperable, affordable tracks, most people would be only too happy to pay. They cough up huge sums on ringtones, for goodness sake.Such restricted use, combined with the benevolent economics of the internet, should mean downloaded tracks are much cheaper, especially in the "long tail" of recordings that have ceased to be stocked in shops. The recording industry's imposition of its own contract law - which can last forever - on top of the laws of copyright can, as the British Library has pointed out, override "fair use" provisions and even end copies for the disabled. The government should resist industry pressures to nail down costly long-term restrictions when the digital revolution is making content cheap and accessible.It is admittedly difficult to say exactly what the law should be. Digital products are unlike other goods and we don't have a strong consumers' lobby to represent our interests. The recent report of the All-party Parliamentary Internet Group has suggested that at least such tracks should display prominent warning notices emphasising the restrictions attached. It also quoted Lord Macaulay's highly relevant speech of 1841, admitting that giving authors a monopoly was the "least exceptionable way of remunerating them" but adding that monopolies were still evil and that "the evil ought not to last a day longer than is necessary for the purpose of securing the good". If Gowers can sort that one out, he will be doing us all a favour.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Console choicesDo you think the Sony PlayStation 3 will be launched in the UK come March next year, or are further delays inevitable? Would you recommend purchase of an Xbox 360, as it seems to be an established next-generation console?Darryl NessJack Schofield replies:There is no simple reply because different people have different needs. "Early adopters" want hot products as soon as they come out, even if it means a pricey console that still has bugs and few games. "Late adopters" wait to get the most stable system at the lowest possible price, but will have missed out on a couple of years of fun.If the PS3 does appear in March 2007, it could be a good choice for early adopters and keen Sony fans. If you are one of those, pre-order as soon as possible. But most people should wait until we see how it performs, more games appear, and prices settle down. Sony will need to reach that stage by Christmas 07. In particular, it's important to see just how compatible the PS3 is with Sony's earlier machines. If it has no problems running PS2 and PSone games, this could be a powerful argument for buying a PS3.A year ago, the Xbox 360 was the console for early adopters, but this Christmas it should reach the mainstream. It has enough good games to make it viable, and the forthcoming selection looks outstanding. If you have broadband, Xbox Live Arcade is almost a "killer app", and there's also the built-in Windows Media Extender that can take films and music from your PC to your TV, much like Apple's forthcoming iTV, but with a powerful games console thrown in free. All this could make it worth buying, even if you hope to get a PS3 later. There's an extra complication with the next generation of games consoles, in that it will also affect the battle between the two blue-ray based movie playing systems, Blu-ray and HD-DVD. Blu-ray players currently cost $1,000 (&pound;530) in the US, and Sony has built one into the PS3. This makes it a good deal if you have a high-definition TV set and want to buy Blu-ray movies - but few people do.DVD players cost about $25 and that's what you get in an Xbox 360, which is one reason why it costs much less to make. Instead, Microsoft plans to offer a cheap (&pound;130) HD-DVD add-on this Christmas, and it could offer an add-on Blu-ray player later. I like this approach because it's far too soon to commit to one format, especially since both could fail. There are still plenty of games coming out for the PS2 and the PC, so the risk averse can wait and see.Firefox in Safe ModeI've just installed Firefox and see that it has a "safe mode". If I use unsafe mode, what effect will it have on Windows and Internet Explorer?Jeremy JamesJS:Most Firefox users install extensions (addons.mozilla.org/extensions) and themes to customise it. Sometimes these cause problems. Safe Mode lets you start Firefox with no extensions, themes or customisations, temporarily, so you can remove the offending add-on. The opposite of Safe Mode is not unsafe! You don't need to change Windows or IE.Zipping awayCan you recommend reliable software to download in order to access IZArc zip files? I have seen freesoftware4all mentioned.Sue BurtJS:IZArc is a file compression utility that used to be called IZip. But if things work correctly, you shouldn't be able to tell if a file was zipped with IZArc or WinZip etc, and any unzipper should decompress it. To download a copy of IZArc, go towww.izarc.org.Are cars electric?Can I buy an electric car in the UK?Ivor NorrisJS:You can buy a G-Wiz from GoinGreen (www.goingreen.co.uk/store/content/gwiz), and there's the Mega City, from Nice (server8.dedicateduk.com/~nicecar/). Other options could include the Maranello 4, Microcar Zenn and the Aixam Mega Van. These seem most viable as London town cars. See the EV UK site (www.evuk.co.uk) for more information. The Daimler-Chrysler Gem looked most suitable for disabled users (tinyurl.com/nrxo5) but seems to have disappeared.Backchat&#183;Jim Cromwell wanted to read a PDA version of the Guardian on his handheld, that wasn't AvantGo. I suggested grabbing our RSS feeds on a PC and synchronising them with the PDA. Steve Power says: "The Guardian does have a PDA site atwww.guardian.co.uk/pda. I've been visiting it since I too gave up on AvantGo. There are also film, books and sport sites but, ironically, no technology site. Who needs AvantGo if you have Wi-Fi or GSM on your PDA?"&#183;Mark McKergow has been suffering from Orange/Wanadoo/Freeserve mail problems but can't change providers because his broadband is a mobile phone deal. He writes: "Having got totally fed up this morning, I think I have found a way out. One can sign up to a separate SMTP service like AuthSMTP (www.authsmtp.com), which sends mail through unblocked servers. You also have to change the SMTP port to 2525 (as detailed in the sign-up instructions) to outfox Orange. Downside: there is a cost, but at &pound;14 a year for 1,000 emails per month, this may be better than total frustration in the short term."
At first glance, the Slingbox appeals to the couch potato in all of us. Plug one in at home, install the software on your laptop, and you'll be able to remotely access your digital television tuner from anywhere in the world. As long you can find a broadband connection, you need never miss anything on TV: it'll 'sling' it to you.While for some of us this means we can still watch Lost even if we are, mostly we'll invest in a Slingbox to watch major sporting events while we're away travelling. And this is fantastic, because simply recording them for when we get back has never been an option. We might find out the result, and besides, sport can only be truly enjoyed if it's live. That's the law.But if you're thinking of buying a Slingbox for this reason and you want to know the score, don't look away now. Because there's a fundamental problem that affects the Slingbox - it's balls. Or more specifically, the size and speed of them. Current upload and download speeds, which the Slingbox relies on to stream whatever you're watching over the internet, just aren't quite good enough for fast-action sports. Couple this with the typical resolution you'll get on your laptop, and the Slingbox turns any game where the protagonists are chasing something spherical into a live version of a "spot the ball" competition.Tennis? All you'll see is what looks like Federer and Murray swatting flies. Golf? Tune in via your Slingbox and the only way you can tell the player has finished his practice swings and actually hit the ball is if he walks off down the fairway after it.Football? Forget it. There's only one thing more frustrating than watching England play, and that's trying to watch them on your laptop. On occasions, the Slingbox makes YouTube look like HDTV - Peter Crouch isn't the quickest player, but even when he's just jogging the Slingbox struggles to keep up. And his famous post-goal robot "dance"? He looks like he's doing it all game.Admittedly, being able to change channels with a remote control that has an effective range of several thousand miles is pretty nifty. And of course amusing, particularly if your better half's at home wondering why the Emmerdale omnibus keeps flicking over to Eurosport, but if you've bought a Slingbox primarily for sports viewing, then you might as well, er, sling it.While there are undoubtedly sadder ways to utilise a broadband connection when you're alone in your hotel room, my biggest criticism is that the Slingbox encourages us to forgo the delights of whatever exotic location we find ourselves in simply for a night in front of the TV. Now, that really is an abuse of technology.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Watt a mistake"Energy ... in the average human step, roughly eight watts" (A step in the right direction, September 28). Oh dear. Confusing power (energy per second, measured in watts) and energy (measured in joules) is, sadly, all too common. Any chance we could have a version of that interesting article edited by a physicist? The number of joules per step would start to give an indication of what might be possible with this technology.Tom WardNorwichSeehttp://tinyurl.com/otvfc- Tech Ed&#183;8 Watts per step? 3-6 Watt per step? Dudes! What makes it even worse is that you get it right elswhere: "A typist can generate 19 milliwatts." The watt is a rate unit, similar to speed. "Watts per step" is sheer luddite nonsense.Glenys Williams-HesseWantage&#183;I have never understood why, in the way bicycles create their own lighting, the wheels on trains that just bogie (ie, those that are not drive wheels) cannot be used to provide power for lighting and air conditioning.Georgeanne SlaterLondonMicrosoft's security flawsMicrosoft IS trying to make money by improving security measures (Anti-virus vendors raise threats over Vista in Europe, September 28). Microsoft's OS is full of security flaws, and every security hole has a much higher chance of being exploited because the Microsoft OS is the most widely used OS. Because of these holes a larger number of people are switching to other operating sytems. It is also why Mozilla Firefox is also gaining a larger user base.It is easy to extrapolate that if Microsoft does not fix these holes they will lose customers - and money. Thus they make A LOT of money by trying to fix the security flaws. And even more when they say they are doing it simply to ensure customer safety.Sohail AnwarNew York City&#183;One can easily see how Symantec might consider this "confusing for customers". Before, they had one easy, clear choice: re-up their subscription or have no protection. Now they have choices, and that can be so confusing. I can certainly see why Symantec might dislike a change in Windows Vista that stops them from disabling WSC and, incidentally, ensures customers can find several choices for protection.blogs.technet.com/securityFollow the clickprint&#183;This is bogus (Is it possible to be identified by your "clickprint"?, September 28). Even if they can often distinguish between me and another anonymous person, it wont be 100% correct. I don't want to be considered for fraud under my own cards.www.driverheaven.netNo rest for the Wiki-ed&#183;On the mailing list WikiEN-L is a law of Wikipedia that should become known as the Finkelstein Paradox (I'm on Wikipedia, get me out of here, September 28) - a subject who argues he doesn't belong in Wikipedia is more likely to remain in Wikipedia.www.cadenhead.org/workbenchBrit credit's no goodInteresting article, but Kate Bevan's experiences with French petrol pumps were caused by a different sort of problem (Technobile, September 28). As far as I know, these pumps currently only take French credit cards, not UK ones. I've also found that some restaurants etc still require a signature, not a pin, for UK cards.Colin BlakemoreLondonA clone-free zone?About the time of your piece on inkjet cartridges (Technobile, September 14) my printer gave up the ghost, and reassured that I would still be able to buy cheap cloned cartridges, I replaced my Epson inkjet with another Epson. But when I went to Cartridgemonkey, I found a grovelling page of praise for genuine Epson cartridges but no sign of cheap clones any more. Did Epson read your article and fly into a rage?Penny MundayHavant
A disproportionate amount of column inches is devoted to the shape, dimension, frequency and physics of (deep breath) the female breast in computer gaming. Whether they're on the screen or off, game culture is obsessed with the mammary gland. So when I met a man named Michael at a recent conference who told me he was studying masculinity in gaming, I wanted to wrap my arms around him and give him a big wet kiss. For the sake of professional respectability, I restrained myself.Games brim with machismo, from Duke Nukem's "Hail to the King, baby" to the bulging muscles that poke out from many a protagonist's tight shirt as he grips ever-more impressive pieces of phallic metal technology. I often feel uncomfortable playing a boob-tastic female form, so how does an army of boys feel about adopting characters who represent men with rather more significant armadillos in their trousers?After a long look at my own psyche, I've isolated a couple of reasons why I dislike playing hypersexualised females. At a stretch, this may provide a starting point to considering how men might feel about being confronted with displays of probably clinical levels of testosterone.First, I like to think I've come to terms with my body image after a few harrowing and angst-ridden adolescent years, but it's still disheartening to know that what I see in the mirror doesn't match what I see on billboards, in magazines, in films or in computer games. The majority of men I've met who play computer games tend not to sport the ripped bods of most male characters, so there may be some dissonance there, too.But it goes beyond the physical. Men who play games have no choice but to adopt highly effective personas; there are no seven-stone weaklings in this space. These digital dudes may represent the notion that players could some day be as manly as the characters they choose on screen. I am envious.Female characters are often only included for eye candy. They're usually quite dim. They aren't active players in any of the outcomes but lie in wait for men to rescue them from impending doom. How am I expected to adopt such a character, or watch as representations of my gender are minimised? Please don't mention Lara Croft. Give me another example - one who isn't a male in hypersexualised female clothing - and then I'll talk to you.Games provide a rich dataset for research into the masculinities of the medium. But if my new friend Michael had chosen to examine femininity in gaming, he'd have had to look under a lot of digital rocks.&#183;Get all the latest videogames news and gossip straight from our trio of bloggers:blogs.guardian.co.uk/games&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Why isn't there an iPod for electronic books (eBooks)? And where's the eBook equivalent of an iTunes store? Last week Sony launched two products in the US that it hopes will address both issues. The Sony Reader is a paperback-sized device with a six-inch screen that can store about 80 eBooks, or hundreds on a plug-in memory card. The $350 (&pound;185) Reader is joined by a new online service, Connect, which offers more than 10,000 eBooks from publishers such as Simon &amp; Schuster, Random House, Penguin, HarperCollins and Harlequin (www.sony.com/reader).So is the eBook market finally coming of age? Nick Bogaty, executive director of the International Digital Publishers Forum (IDPF,www.idpf.org), says: "I've always said that four factors need to be in place for the market to take off. You need a device that makes reading pleasurable, content at the right price, a great selection of content and eBooks that are easy to use. We're definitely getting closer to these goals."On the face of it, an eBook is an attractive proposition, not least because it can offer features difficult or impossible to find in a printed book, such as hyperlinks, multimedia content, cut and paste, high degrees of interactivity and updated content. It can be downloaded and read instantly, and publishers don't have to transport huge volumes of books around the country and store them in warehouses. It can be read on a PC, a PDA, a smartphone or a dedicated device, like Sony's Reader. But despite these benefits, even Bogaty admits that eBooks are still a cottage industry. The US market was worth about $15m in 2005 and sales for the first half of the year totalled only 907,000. In 2004, US firms published 2.3bn books worldwide; only 0.1% of them were eBooks.The eBook sector has faced four major hurdles: construction, cost, content and culture. Constructing a reading device is much more challenging than making a digital music player, says Bill McCoy, general manager of Adobe's e-publishing business: "Music has been digital since the CD, so it's quite simple to do. And digital players use a very simple interface - headphones. An eBook reader needs sophisticated display technology and a long battery life."Screen clarityPaper remains the best medium for text reading, and until recently it has been hard to offer similar clarity on a screen. But the development of e-ink technology, which uses millions of black and white microcapsules on a screen, from the E-ink Corporation (www.eink.com) has dramatically improved text on a screen. Sony's Reader uses e-ink and the company says its battery will last for up to 7,500 page turns.Dutch electronics giant Philips has developed a prototype rollable electronic display and a Philips spinoff, Irex Technologies (www.irextechnologies.com), markets a rival eBook device, iLiad (about &pound;440), which includes Wi-Fi. So far, Apple has not made the iPod an eBook reader as well. When asked if it had eBook plans, the company said: "We don't discuss unannounced products. Our iTunes store offers thousands of audio books." Daniel Duris has developed iPod eBook Creator, an unofficial tool for converting text files into iPod eBooks (tinyurl.co.uk/rrw4) and iPrePPress (www.ipreppress.com) publishes iPod eBooks for students.The eBook sector is also trying to address one of the biggest issues - standardisation. There is a plethora of eBook file formats (Adobe, Sony, Microsoft, Mobipocket and eReader all use proprietary file formats), reader software and digital rights management (DRM) systems. The latter is used by the book publisher to control how the eBook is used, for instance, restricting its use to a unique device or offering limited copying facilities.The IDPF, an international trade and standards forum, has members from the publishing, software, retail and electronics markets, including Adobe, Amazon, Microsoft, Sony and Random House. In the spring, it plans to release a new open file format, .obe, and a standard Zip-based file container, which Bogaty believes will help drive the eBook industry: Adobe's McCoy thinks the market will shake down to two file formats: Adobe's .pdf and .obe.However, few expect there to be a common DRM. "There are just too many patents involved in DRM technology," notes McCoy. What's more important is how eBook publishers implement DRM technology. Sony's previous eBook device, the Librie, was panned for using a DRM system that deleted commercial books after 60 days. "Consumers will be looking for a more flexible DRM so they can move content around," says McCoy.Kevin McKiernan, director of business development at US textbook distributor MBS Direct, says, "Textbook publishers have put a lot of added value material into books, and they can't see how that transcribes to a comparable digital product. There's also concern about the Napster effect [before Napster became a legitimate online music service]." Publishers are likely to err on the side of caution and some form of time limit, to allow for browsing before purchasing or library loans, is likely to be implemented. Sony's Reader allows eBooks to be read on up to six different devices and the company says there are currently no plans for releasing time-limited eBooks.So who's using eBooks? Leaving aside database-type products and technical manuals, the answer is a wide range of readers. "All major publishers have eBooks, and that includes front catalogue as well as back catalogue. Around 60 to 70% of the New York Times bestseller list is available in eBook form," says Bogaty. Romantic novel publisher Harlequin (Mills &amp; Boon in the UK) is a strong supporter of eBooks. "Although they're a tiny portion of our business now, we see it as a growing and relevant area to our customers," says Malle Vallik, editorial director of new business development. "Our customers are women and women don't embrace technology because it is cool. They choose technology when it benefits them - and our eBook readers are embracing this format because there are benefits: selection, convenience, immediacy."Holding waterTextbooks are seen as a major growth market. Only 900 of the 150,000 titles MBS Direct handles are eBooks at present, but McKiernan says there's a lot of interest, not least in the distance learning market. "Students are very mobile and it's easier to store books on a laptop than carry them around." Most eBooks are the same price as the printed version or lower, in some cases 50% cheaper.It used to be said the printed book was such a part of our culture that eBooks would never catch on, but Bogaty disagrees. "People read so much electronic text now - most of my newspaper reading is done online - that this argument no longer holds water."But even the most ardent eBook fan doesn't expect paper books to become obsolete: "They'll co-exist and we'll see publishers offering combined packages, so customers get the best of both worlds," says McKiernan.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Mobcharger, for emergenciesMobcharger has launched a disposable battery charger that includes a small zinc-carbon battery and works with many Samsung, Motorola, Nokia and Sony Ericsson phones.www.mobcharger.comiZak does moviesiZak is a sort of DivX-compatible portable hard drive with TV-out. You can copy movies from your PC via the USB 2 port, then plug the iZak into a TV.www.unibrain.comTagged at SpaceFrom tomorrow, Space Media Arts in London is showing work by five artists using RFID (radio frequency identification) tags.www.spacestudios.org.ukHandheld Learning 2006The Handheld Learning 2006 conference will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Westminster, on October 12 and 13www.handheldlearning.co.uk/hl2006&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
