On market day in the small Canadian town of Waterloo, Ontario, the snow covers the car parks, and horse-drawn buggies pull up alongside the pickups. Founded two centuries ago on the prairie between the Great Lakes, Waterloo is home to the global smartphone maker BlackBerry, 500 tech companies and an institute of quantum computing, but it was first settled by German Mennonites, a religious sect who reject the inventions of the machine age.Working the land, raising barns and crafting hardwood kitchens for the many local technology millionaires, the Mennonites and their town have thrived on BlackBerry's success. But the community's future prosperity hinges on the efforts of a more recent German immigrant, BlackBerry chief executive Thorsten Heins. Appointed 13 months ago, his mission is to arrest the decline of a company whose value has crashed from a peak of $80bn (£51bn) in 2008 to $7.5bn this year."A year ago I felt the universe was in disarray," says Heins. "Now all the stars have really lined up." Sporting a blue shirt embossed with the company logo, his phone in a holster hung from his belt, Heins is hosting a tour of BlackBerry's sprawling 22-building headquarters.It is two weeks after the splashy New York event, attended by BlackBerry's new creative director, the musician Alicia Keys, and beamed to press conferences in seven cities, at which Heins unveiled his company's first true internet phone, the Z10, and the BB10 operating system on which it runs.Back home, the streets are lined with messages of support. "Proud to be powered by BlackBerry" reads the sign outside the VW car dealership. There are discounts at burger joints for customers with the right phone, and the baristas in Starbucks wear BlackBerry T-shirts. With 7,000 of its employees in Waterloo alone, every finger is crossed for the company.BB10 took two years and 15 acquisitions to build, at a time when the firm then known as Research in Motion (RIM) was suffering the greatest upheaval in its history. In January last year, it was in a tailspin: Apple and Google had stolen its crown, with phones that were almost as powerful as laptops. RIM had played no part in the latest wave of the personal computing revolution, spending the years since the iPhone's 2007 arrival pushing email phones in emerging markets rather than improving technology, and its best-selling product was outdated.An investor revolt wrested control from founder Mike Lazaridis and his co-chief executive Jim Balsillie. Heins took their place and set about slashing costs, eventually announcing 5,000 redundancies. He hired two Wall Street banks to seek out potential buyers, and announced the company's first loss in eight years. But Heins also redoubled efforts on the firm's biggest ever project – the building of BB10.The Europeans brought in as his lieutenants are bullish, naturally. "We want to regain our position as the number one in the world," says Kristian Tear, the Swedish chief operating officer who came from Sony. "It could be the greatest comeback in tech history," claims marketing boss Frank Boulben, formerly of Orange. "The carriers [mobile networks] are behind us. They don't want a duopoly."Between them, Google – whose Android software is used by Samsung, HTC and many others – and Apple accounted for 85% of handsets shipped last year, according to research firm Gartner. BlackBerry's share has fallen to 5%. Few software companies survive more than one change of operating system, and while BlackBerry leapt from making pagers to phones in the late 1990s, not everyone is confident of the same success this time. Balsillie, who unlike Lazaridis no longer holds a seat on the board, filed papers last week revealing that he had sold all his shares in the company."I took this job not just because I love restructuring," says Heins. "I did it because I loved the core of innovation that I saw at RIM." Many advised him to jump on the Android bandwagon, or follow Nokia's lead by taking financial incentives from Microsoft to use its Windows Phone system. Instead, he decided to follow the course set by Lazaridis, who in 2010 had bought a Canadian firm called QNX, intending to use its technology as the building block for a new generation of phones.Like Linux, on which Android is built, QNX is a basic operating system on which the interfaces of different machines can run. While most such systems are monolithic – if one area malfunctions the whole system can crash – QNX is more stable because it uses independent building blocks or "kernels": if one breaks, there is no domino effect. As a result, it is used in the computers of nuclear power stations, high-speed trains, space shuttles and heart monitors. It is also in 60% of the engine electronics in today's high-end cars.BlackBerry's ambition does not stop with smartphones. It now extends to connecting individuals to computers running the machines in their lives. These could be remote-controllable washing machines, switching themselves on when electricity is cheapest; cars that book their own service appointments; or dashboard touchpads that guide vehicles and pipe entertainment to their passengers.That, says Heins, is why he chose the harder path of building BB10. "We will be extremely aggressive at investing into this mobile computing domain. We understood that if we want to create the future we have to do something really dramatic and that was building the new platform."Reading on mobile?See the video interview with Thorsten Heins hereAnd so the company decided to draw on its own resources. The graphic designers took their inspiration from the clean lines of the Farnsworth House, a modernist gem near Chicago designed by the architect Mies van der Rohe. The typeface was created by Canadian Rod McDonald, who specialises in clear lettering for the partially sighted. And the engineers found a way to view more than one application at once – say the calendar and email – a conundrum Android and Apple have not yet solved.The device's success, if it comes, will owe much to Alec Saunders, a former Microsoft employee and University of Waterloo graduate who led BlackBerry's battle to persuade developers to create as many apps as possible before BB10's launch. He joined in August 2011, in the middle of the period that is known internally as "The Crazy", and on the very day 2,500 staff were let go.His first task was to dismantle some of the "completely unreasonable, almost Monty Python-esque" ways of working the company had with outside developers – such as the 144-page contracts no small business could digest. Saunders set out to be the developers' friend by being as open as possible. Thousands of free prototype phones were handed out last summer, the BB10 development timetable was made public, and 44 "BlackBerry Jam" shindigs for developers were held in 33 countries.Local teams chasing local content were appointed in almost all of the 20 most prolific app-producing nations. Only Japan, where BlackBerry is withdrawing from the market, and South Korea, where Samsung is hard to work around, were left off the list. There were financial incentives too – $100 for the most basic apps, and a guarantee of $10,000 revenue in the first year for the most popular. When the Z10 made its worldwide debut in the UK, it came with 70,000 apps. By the time it reaches the United States in March, there will be 100,000."What we accomplished was monumental," says Saunders. "We persuaded developers to build apps for a platform without the prospect of being able to make any money for months, and they did it."The company says that the Z10 performed three times better during its first week in the UK than any previous BlackBerry smartphone. That's a vague metric – and claims that UK stores ran out of stock were undermined by analysts Canaccord Genuity, which found most branches received less than 15 handsets each. We will know more on 28 March, when BlackBerry's next set of financial results are published. Ambitions about using QNX to connect to the real world do not a business plan make – BlackBerry's future rests on sales of its new phones.Tellingly, the company's bankers, JP Morgan and RBC Capital Markets, remain on standby, ready to negotiate a sale. Chinese manufacturer Lenovo, which bought IBM's PC business in 2005, has expressed an interest.Heins says BlackBerry's independence is in the balance. "Are we out of the woods? No I don't think so. I think we need to still continue working at it and the strategic review is still part of it. As management we always need to assess the options that we have at our fingertips."At today's price, a takeover could put at least $13m in cash and share options in the chief executive's pocket. But BlackBerry's stock is at a 10-year low: the creation of a true smartphone and what the industry likes to call an "ecosystem" of apps should make it far more valuable to a buyer than the company Heins took control of a year ago. Should BlackBerry meet its Waterloo, it will mint a few more millionaires in the process.
Need a crash course in digital capitalism? Easy: you just need to understand four concepts – margins, volume, inequality and employment. And if you need more detail, just add the following adjectives: thin, vast, huge and poor.First, margins. Once upon a time, there was a great company called Kodak. It dominated its industry, which happened to be chemistry-based photography. And in its dominance, it enjoyed very fat profit margins – up to 70% in some cases. But somewhere in the depths of Kodak's R&amp;D labs, a few researchers invented digital photography. When they put it to their bosses, the conversation went something like this. Boss: "What are the margins likely to be on this stuff?" Engineers: "Well, it's digital technology so maybe 5% at best." Boss: "Thank you and goodbye."Actually, it turned out to be goodbye Kodak: those fat margins on an obsolete technology blindsided the company's leaders. Kodak's engineers were right, of course. Anything that involves computers and mass production is destined to be commoditised. My first mobile phone&nbsp;(purchased in the 1980s) cost nearly £1,000. I've just seen a handset for sale in Tesco for £9.95. (And, yes, I know that Apple currently earns fat margins on its hardware, but that's because it's usually ahead of the competition and it won't last. What's happening in the much bigger Android market is a better guide.) And, if anything, the trend towards thin margins in non-hardware businesses is even more pronounced because online markets are relatively frictionless. Just ask anyone who's trying to compete with Amazon.Then there's volume, which in the online world is astronomical. For example:72 hours of video uploaded to YouTube every minute; more than 100bn photographs have been uploaded to Facebook; during the Christmas period, Amazon.co.uk dispatched a truck filled with parcels every three minutes; to date, more than 40bn apps have been downloaded from Apple's iTunes store. And so on. Margins may be thin, but when you multiply them by these kinds of numbers you get staggering amounts of revenue.These vast revenues, however, are not being widely shared. Instead, they are mostly enriching the founders and shareholders of Apple, Amazon, Google, Facebook et al. Of course, those who work at the heart of these organisations – the engineers, developers and the executives who manage them, for example – are richly rewarded in salaries, stock options and lavish perks. But these gilded employees constitute only a minority of the workforces of the big tech companies and most of their colleagues have decidedly more mundane terms of employment – and remuneration.Take Apple, for example. It makes grandiose claims about the number of jobs that it "directly or indirectly" creates or supports. But about two-thirds of the company's 50,000 American employees work in the US Apple stores, where many of them wereearning about $25,000 a year in 2012– when themean annual personal income in the US was $38,337(2010 figure).Then there's the question of employment, a topic on which the big technology companies seem exceedingly sensitive. Facebook, for example, is given to engaging fancy consultants to produce preposterous claims about the number of jobs it creates. One such "report" claimed that the company, which at the time had a global workforce of about 3,000, indirectly helped create 232,000 jobs in Europe in 2011 andenabled more than $32bn in revenues. And Apple, stung by criticism about all the work it has outsourced to Foxconn in China, is now driven to claiming it has"created or supported" nearly 600,000 jobs in the US.The really tough question that none of these companies really wants to answer is: what kinds of jobs exactly? Anyone seeking an insight into this would do well to consult aterrific report by Sarah O'Connor, theFinancial Times's economics correspondent. She visited Amazon's vast distribution centre at Rugeley in Staffordshire and her account of what she found there makes sobering&nbsp;reading.She saw hundreds of people in orange vests pushing trolleys around a space the size of nine football pitches, glancing down at the screens of their handheld satnav computers for directions on where to walk next and what to pick up when they get there. They do not dawdle because "the devices in their hands are also measuring their productivity in real time". They walk between seven and 15 miles a day and everything they do is determined by Amazon's software. "You're sort of like a robot, but in human form," one manager told Ms&nbsp;O'Connor. "It's human automation, if you like."Still, it's a job. Until it's replaced by a robot.
PlayStation Vita's games library expands with two niche yet addictive digital releases hitting the PSN storefront.Orgarhythm(Xseed Games, £11.99) puts you in control of the God of Light, leading elemental warriors into battle. Gameplay blends rhythm action with real-time strategy to inspired effect, tapping out commands for your squad in time with the music. With each level no longer than a three-five-minute song, it's perfect for short bursts of portable gaming. However, the tiny top-down visuals and oft-demanding tempo may frustrate.Those seeking something a touch more sedate may preferDokuro(Gungho Online, £11.99). Controlling the eponymous hero, a trod-upon skeletal underling of the Dark Lord, players must guide a kidnapped princess out of the underworld. To navigate the perils ahead, Dokuro can drink a potion, turning into a handsome prince to fight monsters or carry the princess out of harm's way – poetically, tragically, the only time she notices him – or use magic chalk (and the Vita's touchscreen) to draw directly into the game world. Each stage segues seamlessly into the next, creating a lengthy and charming tale of escape, with enough hidden treasures toensure replay appeal. Puzzle platforming at its finest, all presented in a beautiful gothic storybook style.
Dead Spacereturns, bringing with it a shift from dark and claustrophobic spaceships to an ice world. For the most part the change works well – having the horrifying Necromorphs leap out from a blizzard can be every bit as scary as from a ventilation duct. Another largely positive change is an enhanced&nbsp;weapons-crafting system. Some truly powerful gadgets can be created, ones that are gratifying in their monster-slaying capabilities, but an over-reliance on grinding for components sours the experience somewhat.Adding an atmosphere-shattering co-op mode is a change that falls flat. As soon as someone is fighting alongside you, fear dissipates and the game becomes about shooting the hell out of anything that moves, rather than cautiously progressing lest some unspeakable terror tears you apart. The result is a complete tonal shift.The previous games bore comparison withAlien, with series hero Isaac Clarke, like Ripley, isolated.Dead Space 3, though, is moreAliens– action-focused with only occasional horror elements. And while the latter was a brilliant sequel,Dead Space 3doesn't live up to its legacy. It's good, yes, but it should have been great.
The games industry owes a significant debt to the Alien movies. Given the widespread co-opting of its source material,Colonial Marinesfaced a monumental task in attempting to be both fresh and faithful to the film. It has met the challenge with some success.Antiseptic human environments clash with grotesque alien hives in a flawless recreation of the franchise's look. The pacing of quiet moments between firefights is terrific, every hissing vent and whirring fan inducing a twitchy trigger&nbsp;finger. Mostly, the story is solid,&nbsp;too, with a littering of wider universe locations, collectibles and references to please die-hard fans.What's galling is that it all sits atop a substandard shooter. Tactical play amounts to firing as many bullets at bad things as possible, which never feels like a challenge given the amount of ammunition available. Worse, human enemies seem little smarter than their mindless alien counterparts, while dodgy textures and glitchy physics abound.Ultimately,Colonial Marinesis redeemed by its connection to a beloved franchise, but anyone seeking more substantial gameplay would do better looking at one of the titles that honours the series' influence, if not the name.
Apple has already transformed two industries: music and computing. Now, as the company reportedly attempts the redefinition of the watch – one of man's oldest pieces of technology – the next phase of the techno revolution is hoving into clear view: welcome to the age of "wearable tech", with a gadget available to cater to your every need.Wearable technology is hardly a new phenomenon. Conrad von Soest depicted an apostle in reading glasses in the Niederwildungen Altarpiece in 1403, and there are mentions of the use of eyeglasses dating back to antiquity. Watches have been in circulation since the 16th century. And English inventor Alphonsus William Webster received what is believed to be the first patent for a hearing aid – a curved earpiece worn behind the ear – in 1836.But thanks to the internet andMoore's Law– the theory that the number of transistors on a chip will double approximately every two years – a whole new world of possibilities is opening up, and with it comes a host of questions that look set to eclipse all previous debate over online privacy.Inevitably nicknamed the iWatch, the Apple device, on which the company is characteristically not commenting, has the tech world in a frenzy of sci-fi speculation. James Bond, Dick Tracy, Inspector Gadget – the techno watch has been a mainstay of fanboy fiction for generations. But the internet revolution seems to have largely bypassed the watch, until now.Apple reportedly has 100 employees looking at the device that will take advantage of recent developments in hi-tech curved glass, cheaper sensors and better voice recognition software.What will the iWatch do? Monitor your health? Act as a credit card? A wrist-bound GPS? Laser cannon and teleporter? We'll have to wait and see but to be honest if that's all it does, you may as well strap an iPhone to your arm. Apple has a history of delivering surprises and the iWatch would be its first big new product since the death of founder Steve Jobs. The company will want to make a splash. Especially as arch-rival Google has its own "smart watch" in development and is already testing Google Glass, web-connected specs. Amazon, Microsoft and Facebook too are watching developments and have their own plans.Last year analyst Forrester issued a report describing wearable computing as "the new platform war". Tech analyst Juniper Research estimates that wearable computing will generate $800m (£500m) in revenue this year and $1.5bn in 2014. Annual unit sales of wearable computers will rise from 15m this year to 70m by 2017.Others have already blazed a trail for smart watches.Pebble, a smart watch company, raised a record $10.26m from funding site Kickstarter last year. The watch will link to iPhones and devices running Google's Android mobile program, letting you know who is calling, taking text messages and showing emails. It will also run new apps, such as acting as a bike computer for cyclists.Pebble plans to produce 15,000 watches a week and made its official debut at the Consumers Electronic Show in Las Vegas in January. This is the electronic industry's showcase and this year wearable tech was ubiquitous. Alongside Pebble a company calledBasis Sciencesdisplayed a chunky wrist-device that can monitor heart rate, sleep quality and more. An American football helmet with pressure pads inside promised to monitor players' health and any damage from tackles – increasingly a major issue in the sport. Verizon demonstrated a wearable, wireless computer designed for firefighters that can stream regular and infrared images.Nike has a hit on its hands with Fuel, a wristband that monitors your activity and acts like a personal trainer. Tellingly, Apple boss Tim Cook wears one. Former Apple CEO John Sculley and business partner Sonny Vu have a new venture called Misfit Wearables that has developed an activity tracker that will send all your data to your favoured device. Sculley has been mentoring healthcare experts in recent years, one of many Silicon Valley stars increasingly interested in the intersection between health and technology.Governments around the world are pouring money into wearable tech. US soldiers in Afghanistan have been testing a device called the shoulder worn acoustic targeting system (SWATS), developed by British tech firm QinetiQ, that can pinpoint the exact location of gunfire and display it on a small screen attached to a soldier's body armour. Devices are also being used to monitor soldiers' health, such as their hydration levels, and to augment their vision. Many of these technologies are likely to filter down to civilian life.Sonny Vu says wearable technology appears poised to go mainstream. "It's still kind of limited in what it can do. And a lot of it looks unwearable. Google Glass makes you look so geeky," he says. Google co-founder Sergey Brin wasrecently snapped on the New York subway wearing the glassesand looking like a tourist in town for the marathon. But geeky or not, Vu predicts that this year will see a major leap forward for wearable tech."It makes you look at technology in a different way. We are moving to a world where technology interacts with us – you are not just staring at a screen. It is suggesting things to you. Maybe go for a walk, or reminding you that you need to shop for food," he says.According to Vu, a lot of the tech is uninteresting. But that will change. Britain's Cambridge Temperature Concepts has developed a portable fertility monitor that can measure a woman's body temperature 20,000 times a day at a precision of a thousandth of a degree. Apps are in development that will monitor for heart attacks and strokes – wearable tech could soon be like possessing a portable doctor.But these are early days and for Vu a lot of the gear is just too fiddly. A lot of those wireless devices seem to come in boxes filled with wires. There will though be big winners, he says. "There were MP3 players then the iPod," he says, referring to how Apple conquered the digital music player market. This time around Apple will face some tough competition.Juniper analyst Nitin Bhas says the Apple news ensures that its competitors will be working hard to make sure they stay ahead of the curve. "The Apple rumour will fuel demand," he says. "Everyone will be looking at this." He says that, while today's devices focus on health and fitness, the next generation will be about entertainment and will have broader applications."The hurdle will be 'why do you need another device?'" says Bhas. But he says it was clear that Apple, Google and Microsoft all believe that computing is set for another shift. The PC gave way to more mobile devices and they are getting more portable still.Amid all the technology-driven excitement, privacy advocates are increasingly concerned. Watchdog groupPrivacy Rights Clearinghouseis compiling a report on the safety of data generated from mobile devices. Director Beth Givens warns that people need to be very careful about the ways in which they adopt the technology."You need to read their privacy policy. Quite a lot of these companies just plain don't have one. There is always an issue with secondary users of the data. Who else is seeing this? Employers? Insurance companies?" she says.Much of this data will be stored in the "cloud" – streaming to remote servers, which Givens warns "are not inherently secure". And this is just the start. Google's glasses will potentially be watching your every move.Do you really need another device? There's a lot of money betting that you soon will and that device will look a lot like something you own already – a belt, a watch, glasses.In recent years Apple and its rivals have shifted their fight from the desktop to the pocket. The body is their new tech battleground, and wearable tech may be about to become the 21st-century version of body armour.
I think it's important that the cars featured in this slot should sit comfortably in their Guardian surroundings. They should be responsible, morally and environmentally. And affordable to people who aren't Goldman Sachs bankers or Manchester City wan… footballers. Within reach of your average Guardian reader, or writer.Yeah, but it's OK to lapse, isn't it, once in a while? This one costs more than 150 grand before you add any extras. Ha, those extras, they're hilarious: £5,365, guess what that's for? TheNaim sound system. Five grand for the stereo! (It is splendid, though;Nasis suddenly in my brain, at 1,100 watts.) And that's not even the most expensive extra. Carbon ceramic brakes? Certainly, sir, yours for £10,200. You can get a whole VW Polo for that. Hmm… shall I get the brakes, or a runabout for the missus?To be honest, I'll probably need those brakes. Nearly two and a half tons of steel, polished walnut and leather, travelling at 205mph, takes some stopping. Yes, 205mph: this is the fastest Bentley ever. They have taken the regular baby Bentley, already a very quick and powerful car, added more power, more torque, more performance. This W12 six-litre, twin-turbo petrol engine gives you 616bhp at 6,000rpm, 590lb/ft of torque at 1,700rpm… Sorry, getting all Top Gear. Basically, it's insanely powerful and goes like stink. It's posher inside, too. You're extra-cosseted by double-glazed windows and diamond-stitched leather seats, though the latter do make me think of Andrex quilted loo paper. Actually, I wouldn't be surprised if this car sprayed my arse with a gentle mist of aloe vera, to keep it cool as it catapulted towards the double ton.Of course no one needs, or will ever use, that sort of performance. It's just about having more, more than lots, and a subtle W12 badge for extra bragging rights in the players' car park atthe Etihad. The only place you might be able to appreciate it is on a track. So that's where I've come, toThruxton circuitin Hampshire. I&nbsp;can't really believe that a car this heavy, however powerful and well-balanced it is, is really going to be at home on the racetrack… Oh, and I'm not going to find out. Thruxton circuit is covered in snow. They'll let us drive round, but only very slowly.So that's what I do: I drive the fastest Bentley ever made very slowly around a racetrack. More like motoring than driving. And, yes, that works, too: it can be that kind of Bentley, the tweedy, motoring type – silent, smooth, luxurious. Out of sport mode, yes, we don't need that, or the throatier engine note that comes with it. And I'll replace Nas with… Chopin, perfect. God, that sounds good – definitely worth the extra five-and-a-bit grand, I'd say.Bentley Continental GT SpeedPrice as tested£176,385Top speed205mphAcceleration0-60mph in 4 secondsCombined fuel consumption19.5mpgCO2 emissions338g/kmGreen rating1/10Cool rating7/10
For those planning to subject themselves to the disappointment ofAliens: Colonial Marines, new DLC has already been announced for next month in the form of co-operative–basedBug Hunt, to be followed by three more packs by the end of the summer.Scribblenauts Unlimited(reviewed last week) has now been delayed indefinitely, along with fellow Wii U releaseRayman Legends, giving Nintendo's new console a February release schedule populated by tumbleweed. Actually out this week areCity Builder(PC), a kind of sim building site rather than sim city;Botanicula: Collector's Edition(PC &amp; Mac), the charmingly drawn point-and-click adventure from the makers of the Machinarium; andPersona 4: Golden(Vita), a gripping game of teenage intrigue and supernatural combat in a rustic Japanese town. Possibly the strangest and most interesting release of the year so far.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe makers of Aliens: Colonial Marines clearly adore its filmic inspiration, and this is never clearer than in the flickering, claustrophobic corridors of the abandoned colony on planet LV-426. Later, when you're shooting human mercenaries and half-heartedly ducking behind convenient waist-height barriers, you start to suspect that making a decent game based on the Aliens franchise may in fact be impossible. It's not that xenomorphs aren't scary or that the plot doesn't have a kernel of interest; it's more that familiar gun sounds, chirruping motion trackers and a few fancy lighting effects fail to provide much apart from a very accurate recreation of scenery from the films and a few wry, nostalgic smiles. Multiplayer is interesting rather than engaging, while the plethora of easter eggs is insufficient to distract from the clunkiness of the action and gaping plot-holes its supposed revelations offer.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewEncounters with the Dead Space franchise's necromorphs used to be terrifying. Not so much these days: it still looks like Silent Hill in space – with its rusty, filthy corridors and sense of isolated dilapidation – but when the monsters turn up, shooting them isn't scary so much as great fun. That's ably assisted by the game's weapons benches, which let you turn collected scrap materials into lethal armaments and ammunition, a process that soon removes any sense of danger. Your battles with the game's beasts are now simply encounters with amusing groups of cannon fodder, artfully interspersed with zero-G sections and moments where you lay waste to everything in sight with a fixed gun turret. If you arrive expecting fear, you'll leave disappointed, but if your only aspiration is dismembering space monsters with homemade artillery, Dead Space 3 is money well spent.
Facebook has announced that hackers have targeted it in a "sophisticated attack" but that it has found no evidence of user data being compromised.The social networking site said it discovered the breach last month and that the attack occurred when a handful of employees visited a developer's compromised website, which led to malware being installed on their laptops.The company said that it has fixed the infected machines, informed the authorities and initiated an investigation.It added that it was not the only company targeted in the attacks but was one of the first to discover it, and that its security teams are working with those at other companies to find out all it can about the attack."As one of the first companies to discover this malware, we immediately took steps to start sharing details about the infiltration with the other companies and entities that were affected," Facebook added ina statement posted on its security blog."We plan to continue collaborating on this incident through an informal working group and other means."Under Facebook's White Hat programme, anyone who finds a way of breaching the site's networks and owns up can earn rewards worth thousands of dollars. As well as money, the site promises not to land them in trouble with the police if they have complied with the programme's golden rules.One British hacker has earned more than £1,500 from Facebook, and the most prolific White Hat contributors have been given their own Facebook "bug bounty" credit cards.
The traditional console makersThe PlayStation 4 and the Xbox 720 (or Durango, as it is codenamed) are both rumoured to resemble powerful PCs, with fast multi-core AMD processors, off-the-shelf graphics cards and Blu-ray players. The aim has been to cut development costs and concentrate on services and software. Both will offer a range of video-on-demand brands such as LoveFilm and the BBC's iPlayer, and it is likely they will boast cloud technology, allowing players to stream games over the web.The next Xbox will come with an improved version of the Kinect motion-control device, possibly reading facial expressions and individual voices to personalise services. The PlayStation 4 is likely to come with a touchpad, bringing new interactive possibilities.The technology giantsApple and Google both offer TV set-top box services and are likely to want to extend their reach further. There are rumours that Apple could launch its own TV set, complete with access to its App Store and many thousands of downloadable games and applications. It is also possible there will be more direct connectivity between smartphones and televisions, turning an iPhone or Android handset into a portable console."I wouldn't bet against either Apple or Google trying to come in and dominate this space," says the games analyst Oscar Clark. "However, I suspect this might be a bridge too far for Apple. They understand the personal screen intimately, but I believe that the shared screen TV experience isn't the same kind of business and they might well regret it."However, some people thought the same about Microsoft entering the console market and they arguably triumphed, largely by getting in people who were passionate about gaming. Google will be at the heart of many new devices through Android, but I am less convinced we will see, say, a Nexus console."The open-source newcomersThis year sees the launch of two consoles based on Google's Android technology: the Ouya and the GameStick. Both will retail for less than $100 and will let users download games from the internet. Unlike the major consoles, they will be open-source so anyone can develop for them. This appeals to a new generation of game designers who want to work in small teams on quick, fun projects."The market is big enough to support these kinds of products, so Ouya and GameStick will find an audience, but I'm not convinced they'll really be transformative," says Neil Long, editor of the gaming news site Edge Online. "The scale and resources that tech giants like Apple, Google, Sony and Microsoft have will always win out."The PC gamersThe biggest threat to Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo is likely to come from Valve, the US games developer that runs PC gaming service Steam, used by 50 million subscribers around the world. Valve plans to launch its own Steam Box console offering access&nbsp;to Steam's huge library of downloadable games, from blockbusters like Call of Duty to cult indie titles.Valve is also likely to license the Steam Box concept to other manufacturers. At the CES consumer technology show in January, the PC manufacturer Xi3 Corporation introduced the Piston, a compact, modular PC box boasting Steam compatibility. Xi3 said that within a week of the show journalists and bloggers had produced more than 5,000 new stories about Piston, and its site got a million hits a day. With a built-in audience of fervid gaming acolytes, a range of Steam Boxes could dominate the industry within five years.The TV manufacturersMost of the big television manufacturers are now making smart TVs with onboard chipsets and broadband connections. They effectively want to remove the need for a separate games console or set-top box. Both LG and Samsung offer smart TVs that have access to app stores with simple games and other applications. It's all very basic at the moment, but as new televisions arrive with more powerful processors, could they represent a challenge to the consoles?"Of course we will see good growth in smart TVs, but I fear this approach is flawed," says Clark. "The upgrade cycle for a TV is much slower than our mobile or tablet devices and it would be impractical to keep up with the performance improvements you can expect elsewhere. I'm more inclined to think that a USB Android PC or USB Roco box will be more likely as these are simple and discretely plugged in to the side of your TV and are easily replaced."
A UK cloud services company is seeking a European trademark on the word "Python" – causing uproar among programmers who use the free language of the same name.Our Holdings, a company based in Watford, has decided to seek a European trademark on the "Python" name that it uses for its cloud services, offered through python.co.uk – but has quicklyrun into opposition from the Python Software Foundation(PSF).The PSF says that if Our Holdings is successful it could hit Europe-based companies that offer hosting services including access to the Python language – because they could be accused of infringing Our Holdings' trademark if they advertised "Python".But Tim Poultney, the managing director of Our Holdings, said that the PSF had dragged its feet after he had been in touch with it last year about applying for a trademark on python.co.uk's logo – which also necessitates seeking a trademark on some uses of the name."We were talking to them but they didn't get back to us so we filed for the trademark. And now, with 14 days remaining, the PSF has got back to me at 5.30pm on a Friday."TheEuropean trademark databaseshows that the PSF has applied for a trademark on the word "Python" - which is dated 6 February 2013. But a number of other companies, including Our Holdings (whose application was filed in April 2012) and 16 other companies have trademark registrations dating back to 1964 incorporating the single world "Python".Poultney said that the issue – publicised by the PSF on Thursday – had led to him receiving death threats and that the python.co.uk website was receiving 250 hits per minute.Poultney said that the PSF's latest suggestion is that Our Holdings' use of a "Python" trademark should be limited only to backup services and virtual servers – which Poultney is considering. It is legal – and common – for different companies and organisations to use the same word in a trademark as long as their activities don't lead to conflict that might confuse customers; if they do, the longest-standing holder of the trademark will often prevail.Steve Holden, the former chairman of the board of the PSF, contacted Python.co.uk in January 2012 to ask it to reconsider its plan -declared in a press release that month- to offer cloud backup and virtual servers services under the Python name. It also asked for the transfer of the domain to the PSF. Holden said that "the word 'Python' is a registered trademark of the Python Software Foundation" and that the offering of those services would infringe that trademark.Poultney asked for evidence of the PSF's trademark in Europe - but did not receive any. He offered to show the proposed logos to the PSF, but added "you… have no presented any information to me that makes me think we are in breach of anything."Though the PSF has had a Python trademark since 2004, it missed out on registering it in Europe earlier.Van Lindberg, the present chairman of the board of the PSF, told the Guardian: "We actually started the process of registering the term 'Python' in 2009, but the worldwide economic downturn wiped out our budget for trademark registration and we had to put the project on hold while we built our reserves back up. We didn't expect that someone would pick on an open source organization, and we knew that we had some rights from using the term 'Python' to refer to the computer language for over 20 years. Companies all over the EU have respected those rights, and we expected that POBox [Our Holdings] would too. After all, their product includes Python from the Python Software Foundation."Python, the free open-source programming language, was conceived in the 1980s and implementation began in December 1989,according to the Python History blog.Popular for its modular structure and broad functionality, Python has become popular in building huge numbers of commercial websites. (The Guardian is among the sites that use it in development.)Our Holdings registered the python.co.uk domain name in October 1997; the PSF says that "At that time we weren't looking a lot at trademark issues, and so we didn't get that domain." Instead, the programming language is developed through the python.org top-level domain.But now, with time running out, the issue has become keener. "We contacted the owners of python.co.uk repeatedly and tried to discuss the matter with them," the PSF says in its post. "They blew us off and responded by filing the [European] community trademark application claiming the exclusive right to use 'Python' for software, servers and web services – everywhere in Europe."The PSF is opposing the broad trademark application, and is seeking examples of letters from "well-known companies" using the programming language in various EU member states.Updated:added details of emails from PSF in 2012 and search of trade mark database; added quote from Van Linberg.
On Wednesday at the 2,800-seater Hammerstein venue in New York, Sony is expected to kickstart the next generation of video game consoles. The company has not officially confirmed anything, but pundits are certain this is where the world will get its first glimpse of the long-awaited PlayStation 4.Meanwhile, Microsoft is working on the sequel to its Xbox 360 console, expected to be unveiled at this summer's E3 exhibition in Los Angeles.New games platforms are usually welcomed with excitement by tech fans, but this time things are a little different. Since PlayStation 2 dominated the world of gaming in the early 2000s, the industry has been transformed by the arrival of smartphones and tablets.These devices offer cheap, convenient gaming experiences to a new demographic of players who do not necessarily want to pay £40 for a game and then sit in front of their TVs for hours to play it."Why would I want another noisy black box sitting under my TV when the phone or tablet I have can do almost everything such a console can?" says the games analyst Oscar Clark."In a couple of years that console will be out of date compared with my other devices. At the same time, my relationship with my TV is changing. It is no longer the first screen, it's just the shared screen where I consume content with the other members of my household. My primary screen is my tablet or mobile, so where does the console hardware fit?"Retail sales of games are falling around the world. In the US, according to the market analysts NPD Group, sales of physical games fell 22% in 2012, to $13.26bn; in the UK the market was down 17% to £1.59bn. Demand for hardware is also falling: console sales were down 37% in 2012, NPD said, and newcomers such as Nintendo's Wii U and the handheld PlayStation Vita have so far fared poorly.Of course, decline is natural at the end of a console cycle, but this time the market lethargy could cost Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft dearly because there are new challengers on the horizon. The US games developer Valve plans to launch its own console, Steam Box, a cheap, tiny PC that plugs into the TV and offers hundreds of downloadable games. This year will also see the launch of at least two new sub-$100 consoles based on Google's Android technology. Ouya and GameStick are both open platforms, which means anyone can make games for them without authorisation from the manufacturer, an appealing prospect to developers.Hovering in the background are Apple and Google, both of which have online app stores and TV services. Apple is rumoured to be working on a new version of its Apple TV set-top box, or even a dedicated Apple television set, that will give access to thousands of cheap games via the App Store, without the need for a dedicated console.But Sony and Microsoft may have a few new weapons to bring to the battle. Both are creating cross-platform ecosystems: PS4 is likely to integrate with Sony's Xperia mobile phones and the Vita handheld console; the next Xbox will doubtless be compatible with Windows 8 PCs and Windows mobiles.Last year Sony spent $380m on the California-based company Gaikai, which has developed a cloud-based technology that lets users play as games are streamed over the internet. Microsoft has hinted that the new Xbox will support cloud-based gaming.It is likely, then, that both next-gen consoles will offer something akin to Spotify for games, allowing players to stream or download new titles in exchange for a monthly subscription.In the US, Microsoft has toyed with a smartphone-style subsidised price model where buyers get the Xbox 360 for a lower price if they sign up for a two-year online gaming subscription. This could well be used to keep the cost of the next-gen machines down.All this is not great news for retailers who depend on selling boxed games, but it fits in with new consumer purchasing habits. "I am convinced that smart, scalable cloud technology is going to be critically important," says Clark. "But we mustn't forget that it depends on the reliability of the connection, bandwidth and latency. The challenge [is] how much to rely on the device and how much on the server."It is possible that a new device will come in to disrupt the market – and that few will see it coming. Games were an afterthought on the iPhone and on Facebook, but these platforms spawned huge new markets with hits such as Angry Birds and Farmville. This could also be the point at which the industry breaks away from its reliance on genres such as sports sims and military shooters."The living room is wide open right now," says the games designer and author Will Luton. "Some device will come in with the purpose of doing something else – likely movies, TV or music – but will be games-capable."People won't have to go to specialist shops for games about musclebound men smashing something's skull in. There will be new content, it will be for everybody and, unlike mobile or social games, it will be long-form and narrative-driven."This will be the biggest change games will ever see. Finally we'll be able to compete creatively and as widely as every other media art form."
Facebook announced the launch of a new feature on Friday that allows users to pay to promote their friends' posts. In return for a fee, Facebook promotes the post so that more people see it.Promoted posts don't function outside of Facebook's regular privacy settings, so people who can't normally see a status update won't be able to see posts that have been promoted.Still, the new feature has already sparkedprivacy concernsbecause you don't have to give your consent for a post to be promoted by one of your friends.Facebook insists the new feature is intended to be helpful to users, giving friends the opportunity, for example, to promote posts about charitable activities: "If your friend is running a marathon for charity and has posted that information publicly, you can help that friend by promoting their post to all of your friends,"Facebook said in a statement.But users could just as easily promote embarrassing status updates in jest or out of cruelty.To use the new feature, which applies to users with fewer than 5,000 friends and subscribers, you select the drop-down menu on the top-right corner of a friend's status update, select "promote and share", and pay the $7 fee. (Facebook is experimenting with the price.)The launch of the feature illustrates how Facebook regards status updates: commodities that can be monetized. Whether or not the feature will generate any significant revenue for the company still remains to be seen, however.Rumor has itthat Linkedinis experimenting with a similar feature too, with a roll-out expected some time this year.
Welcome to this week's roundup of new and notable iPhone and iPad apps – those released for the first time in the last week, as opposed to updates to older apps.As ever, the price in brackets refers to the initial download, so some apps may include in-app purchases. The30 best Android apps roundupwas posted earlier in the day. For now, read on for the latest iOS releases worth knowing about:123D Creature (£1.49)Even Steve Jobs would've raised a sceptical eyebrow if you'd told him a few years ago that in 2013, people would be modelling digital-clay monsters on their iPads then getting them 3D-printed out. That's exactly the idea behind Autodesk's 123D Creature app though: you sculpt and paint creatures then export them as images and 3D models, or order a 3D-printed version from within the app.iPadKickstarter for iPhone (Free)Iwrote about this at more lengthyesterday, but the precis is this: crowdfunding website Kickstarter now has an official iPhone app. You can use it to see what projects musicians, artists, game developers and other creators are trying to raise money for and back them from your phone. And if you're running a project, you can keep an eye on your stats, and post updates to your backers from the device too.iPhoneOne Direction Scrapbook (Free)Given One Direction's escalating global fame, this free iOS app should be a sizeable hit among fans. It's a digital scrapbook for fans to paste in photos of the British boy band, customise them with their own photos and messages, then share on social networks.iPhone / iPadSound Uncovered (Free)San Francisco's Exploratorium museum has launched this innovative and playful iPad app, aimed at all ages, which offers "auditory illusions, acoustic phenomena, and other things that go bump, beep, boom, and vroom". It's an exploration of sound, from growling saxophones to noisy gum-chewing.iPadTempo Smart Calendar (Free)Alas, us Brits clearly aren't smart enough for Tempo yet – this new calendar app appears to be US-only for now. Developed at SRI, the company behind Apple's Siri technology, it's a mobile calendar app that pulls in emails, contacts and locations to your plans, while providing directions, documents, LinkedIn profiles and even sending apologetic "running late" emails and texts.iPhoneDrawQuest (Free)Draw Something isn't dead just yet, but developers and startups are already trying to push the collaborative-drawing genre of apps onwards. Canvas Networks' new effort is really interesting: less a competitive game, and more a daily drawing challenge: it provides the scenario for you to draw and share with friends.iPadVersu (Free)More creativity on iPad, this time from Linden Lab – the company behind virtual world Second Life. No flying 3D penises here though: it's an "interactive reading experience where the readers become the characters". Two stories are included initially, with you influencing the plot by taking actions at specific points. Choose Your Own Adventure did this a long time ago, of course, but Versu looks an intriguing update on the idea.iPadAmerica's Presidents (£2.99)More heavyweight literary action comes with this app from the Smithsonian Institution, based on its National Portrait Gallery's collection of US presidential portraits. The app guides you from George Washington to Barack Obama, with high-resolution versions of the paintings, plenty of information on the presidents, video interviews sharing more light on the artists, and even audio of Franklin D. Roosevelt's radio broadcasts.iPadJOOL (£0.69)Sometimes just one feature is enough to make an iOS game stand out from the crowd. In this case, it's the fact that you can switch between the game's two heroes by spinning your device 180 degrees. It's more than a gimmick though: this is an engrossing action-platformer game with a look all its own. Oh, and "really nasty death animations", if that's your bag.iPhone / iPadEssential Anatomy (£20.99)Would you pay 21 quid for an anatomy app? You might if you were a medical student, because this app from 3D4Medical looks very polished indeed. It offers 3D models of six systems – the skeleton, connective tissue, muscle, veins, arteries and nerves – as well as the brain and heart, with more to come.iPadWunderlist 2 (Free)Excellent to-do list app Wunderlist 2 has been out for smartphones for a while, but now it has a native tablet version too. It's good for building all manner of lists, with reminders, notifications and social features thrown in for good measure.iPadNASCAR RaceView Mobile '13 (Free)This might just be one of the whizziest second-screen TV apps yet: a full 3D visualisation of the US NASCAR Sprint Cup Series races: "You can pan, zoom and spin to focus on a specific driver, or pull back to view the entire field", all while listening to live race-broadcast radio or audio from the drivers and teams.iPhone / iPadFlick Champions Winter Sports (£0.69)There's a long tradition of multi-event Winter sports gaming – I happily wasted weeks of my teenage life playing Epyx' Winter Games back in the day. Chillingo is bringing the idea into 2013 with this collection of six sports: slalom, skating, ski jumping, ice hockey, curling and snowball fighting.iPhone / iPadEasy Studio – Animate With Shapes (£2.49)It's areallygood week for creative children's apps, with Easy Studio being a marvellous example from French developer Les Trois Elles. It's an intuitive animation studio for kids to make scenes from shapes, then animate them. Two difficulty levels ensure younger children can use it too, with animations saveable for later amusement.iPadStream That Song (Free)Can any app hope to rival Shazam when it comes to identifying music that's playing? Stream That Song is a neat new app – made by a developer from Orange France's research labs – which identifies a song playing in the real world, then provides links to play it in Spotify or Deezer's mobile apps.iPhoneThe Flying Alphabetinis (Free)Calling this game a Words With Friends for kids is slightly inaccurate – it's more like Boggle – but the idea of turn-based gameplay over the network is the main thing. It's designed to be played between children and their parents, although the use of in-app purchases to buy power-ups could create some interesting family competition.iPhone / iPadDie Hard (£0.69)Bruce Willis is back, Back, BACK! in a new Die Hard movie this year, but this official mobile game concentrates on his character's son Jack McClane. It's an interesting splicing of the endless runner genre with third-person shooters: Temple Run meets Uncharted. Well, sort of.iPhone / iPadTwickets (iPhone)This is a great idea from developer Future Platforms: a "free fan to fan ticket exchange" that helps people buy and sell spare tickets to gigs, sports matches and other events in the UK. Tickets can't be sold for more than their face value – so it's not a tout's paradise – with an elegant design and social features tying into the existing Twickets Facebook and Twitter communities.FreePokémon TV (Free)Yes, an official Pokémon app – the second in a few months, in fact, following the release of the Pokédex on iOS in 2012. This time round, the focus is on the Pokémon cartoon series, which is 700-odd episodes in now. The free app streams selected episodes, while also offering new film trailers and other exclusive features for Pokéfans.iPhone / iPadTalking Friends Cartoons (Free)700m downloads later, Outfit7's Talking Friends apps, including Talking Tom Cat and Talking Ginger, are one of the biggest digital brands of the App Store era. This app gathers the 10 animated shorts produced for Disney, and previously distributed on YouTube. It's had some teething problems at launch – an ad promoting a £4-a-week mobile content subscription servicehas been swiftly removed– but there's no denying the popularity of Tom and friends.iPhone / iPadGifted2you (Free)This is a really nice idea: an app that reminds you of special occasions, and enables you to browse a catalogue of products from "artisans and smaller producers" to friends and family. It can connect to your Facebook (but doesn't have to), and sends physical gifts within the UK.iPhone / iPadThe Poppin Princess (£2.99)This French children's app has recently been translated into English, which deserves to bring its charms to a wider audience. It revolves around a contest between a bunch of princesses to become the wife of a prince called Archibald, with lovely illustrations and plenty of interactivity for kids.iPhone / iPadMatthew Kenney's Everyday Raw Express (£1.99)Not a euphemism. This iPhone cookery app is about food that isn't cooked: "delicious, healthy and quick raw food recipes" from chef and author Kenney. The app offers more than 50 recipes to try, with videos, photos and nutritional data also included.iPhoneRotolla (£1.49)This game has been described as a cross between Tetris and Super Hexagon, which pretty much nails its charms. It sees you organising blocks as they rotate inside a hexagon, with the difficulty curve quickly ramping up to provide a proper challenge.iPhone / iPadHunches in Bunches - Dr. Seuss (£2.49)The latest Dr Seuss book-app from Oceanhouse Media stars creatures including a Sour Hunch, a Very Odd Hunch, the Homework Hunch, a Four-Way Hunch, the Nowhere Hunch – all trying to give the young hero advice, of varying quality. Impish rhymes and good features for children learning to read make it a winner.iPhone / iPadDino Land (Free)On the one hand, Dino Land is a fun-looking free-to-play game for children, teaching them about dinosaurs as they collect a set of prehistoric monsters and learn facts about them. On the other, its in-app purchases go as high as £69.99 for virtual bones, which seems a bit much for a children's game. Parents will want to make sure their IAP settings are locked down before letting their kids play.iPhone / iPadRed in Bed (£1.49)This excellent children's app teaches kids about the colours of the rainbow. It tells the tale of the colours painting the world, apart from Red (who's ill in bed). Each colour gets its own musical note, too – ideal for tap-happy children.iPadAces of the Luftwaffe (£0.69)Fancy some old-school shoot 'em up action? HandyGames' Aces of the Luftwaffe pitches you into the Battle of Britain, trying to fend off the massed ranks of Luftwaffe fighter planes, including the odd boss battle.iPhone / iPadKakaoAlbum (Free)Hundreds of new photo-sharing apps are released every week for iPhone, so why single this one out? Well, it's a spin-off from KakaoTalk, a hugely popular messaging app in South Korea and south east Asia – with well over 50m users. So while it may not rival Instagram in the UK, expect its mixture of social sharing and collaborative photo galleries to be a hit closer to its home.iPhoneNewsies Photo Booth (Free)Finally, a fun branded app from Disney to promote its Newsies Broadway musical, adding characters into your own snaps, then helping you share them. On a more practical level, it also provides news and ticketing details for the musical.iPhoneThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your recommendations or give your opinions on the apps above by posting a comment.
Oh man, I'm not sure how I feel about this. EA is about to launch Tetris Blitz, a new version of the classic block-falling puzzler, with a host of new features. Primarily, it's now fitted with a two-minute time limit: the idea is to get the highest score possible by placing as many falling blocks as you can within the allotted time. While the old Tetris made you play until you died, this one won't let you die – if your blocks reach the top, the final few rows disappear. All you're competing on is score.The idea, of course, comes from Popcap's Blitz series of Facebook games which sought to condense the experience of 'match-three' puzzlers like Bejeweled and Zuma into coffee break-sized nuggets of satisfying gameplay. It's all about creating an experience that befits the playtime of busy modern social networkers who just want something quick to play when they're on a bus, or the loo. It's a pretty successful recipe. At its peak, Bejeweled Blitz had around 10 million monthly active users on Facebook, and combining the Blitz framework with the Tetris brand is a massive (I can't believe I'm about to write this) no-brainer for EA.But it also, let's face it, shatters the spirit of Tetris. Created by Russian programmer Alexey Pajitnov in 1984, this pitiless block-dropping puzzler (theoriginalblock dropping puzzler) is really a perfect game – pure, easy to understand, but also enormously deep and compelling. And like all the best arcade games it leads you toward inevitable death – however good you are, however lucky, the blocks will win. How neat, how... perfect. Because all good experiences end this way.You can't die in Tetris Blitz. You get two minutes. That's it. The game helps you by suggesting where you can place blocks – just as Bejeweled lets you know which shapes to move if you have the temerity to ponder on it for too long. There are Finishers, special moves that let you end a round with an explosive point-multiplying effect. And of course, as this is a free title, you can buy power-ups with real money.I get it, I really do get it. But I also worry about it. Tetris has been reinvented dozens of times, of course; it is one of the great cash cows of the games industry. It's sold over 125 million copies on countless platforms. Now it is just another franchise to be gilded with modern gaming mechanics.Where will it lead? Pac-Man with in-game payments for fruit or extra power pills? Space Invaders where you hit a button to re-build your force fields? Defender with smart bombs available at one pound a time?I don't want to whinge on about microtransactions – they're an inevitability in an era where no one wants to pay for anything upfront. The games industry has learned from the intransigence of its ruined friends in movies and music. If people don't want to pay, don't make them, but be sure to make payment available when they're already onboard.No this is about something else. Something about what constitutes a game and the nature of challenge. Sometimes people make awkward comparisons between the arcade model of rinsing players of their coins and the freemium model. Is a coin-op 'continue' a micro-transaction? Kind of. But the philosophy is somewhat different because in the arcade the terms never change.And it's not even about that. It's about Tetris and the hoops it must now jump through to speak to players. It is about the business of nostalgia. It is about remembering how perfect that game was. People playing for hours and then closing their eyes and seeing falling blocks. No one closes their eyes and sees paid-for power-ups.• Tetris Blitz is out this weekend on iOS and Android
It's time for this week's roundup of new and notable Android apps – those released for the first time in the last week, as opposed to updates to older apps.As ever, the price in brackets refers to the initial download, so some apps may include in-app purchases. The iOS roundup will be published later in the day. For now, read on for this week's Android selection:Material (Free)Inq used to make mobile phones, but has since pivoted into more of a software focus. Material shows what it's been up to: a "content discovery service" that aims to gauge your tastes, then serve up news stories and blog posts accordingly. Another competitor for Flipboard, Zite, News360 and other social/aggregation apps, in other words. Stylish design is its main attraction.NFC by Moo (Free)At last! An interesting NFC app for the current wave of Android smartphones. This is the work of Moo – of teeny-tiny business cards fame – which is selling NFC-enabled cards which can have URLs, phone numbers, map links, contacts and social networking profiles associated with them. The app reads cards and writes to them.The Simpsons: Tapped Out (Free)The second appearance in a row for EA's freemium Simpsons game: it came out in the US first, but is now available worldwide, including the UK. As before, the game sees you rebuilding Springfield after a nuclear meltdown, with appearances from all the TV show's main characters, and in-app purchases used for virtual donuts. Obviously.Zombie Minesweeper (£0.63)Microsoft's Minesweeper was addictive for millions (well, hundreds of millions) of people. But it was a bit lacking in zombies. That's something developer Octo Industries is rectifying with its new Android game, splicing the famous number-puzzler with a plotline involving the undead. Also weapons.The 500 Hats of Bartholomew (£3.18)There are few zombies in the Dr Seuss back catalogue, thankfully. Developer Oceanhouse Media continues to bring the rhyming books to smartphones and tablets, with The 500 Hats of Bartholomew based on a young boy's attempts to doff his hat to the king – only to find another hat appearing whenever he does. The app is aimed at 6-12 year-olds.NewsWhip (Free)More news aggregation here, although NewsWhip does it by scanning "a billion people on Facebook and Twitter" to track breaking stories, then serving them up in a news stream. It drills down into 10 countries, including the UK, with a filter to focus on topics including politics, tech, music and health.Die Hard (Free)What, there's a new Die Hard film? This'll be a good time for a tie-in game, too. Die Hard is an interesting attempt to splice two different genres: Temple Run-style endless runners and traditional first-person shooters. You swipe and tap your way through missions, complete with a bullet-time feature to deal stylish death to your enemies.gifted2you (Free)This is a really nice idea: an app that reminds you of special occasions, and enables you to browse a catalogue of products from "artisans and smaller producers" to friends and family. It can connect to your Facebook (but doesn't have to), and sends physical gifts within the UK.Pokémon TV (Free)Yes, an official Pokémon app – the second in a few months, in fact, following the release of the Pokédex on iOS in 2012. This time round, the focus is on the Pokémon cartoon series, which is 700-odd episodes in now. The free app streams selected episodes, while also offering new film trailers and other exclusive features for Pokéfans.Tamagotchi L.i.f.e. (Free)Talking of famous Japanese gaming brands making an Android comeback... Namco Bandai has launched a 16th-anniversary app based on the Tamagotchi virtual pet – the original one that got kids hooked all those years ago. "t's just like the virtual pet you loved, only better; its in COLOR, features more characters and higher resolution and a place to keep your Tamagotchi collection," the publisher promises.DashClock Widget (Free)This has the makings of a very nifty tool: a replacement lock-screen clock widget for devices running Android 4.2 and above, with customisable "extensions" adding features like local weather, missed call notifications, calendar appointments and unread Gmail inbox emails.Cordy 2 (Free)Stylish platform game Cordy 2 is full of character, as you guide a little robot... thing called Cordy through 48 levels of action – the first four are playable for free, with the rest unlocked through an in-app purchase. Three varied worlds keep it fresh, as do an array of colourful characters.MediaMonkey (Free)Pitched as "a media player for serious collectors", MediaMonkey is still in beta: a way to navigate around "large music collections", playing songs and synchronising them with the Android device. It works wirelessly with the MediaMonkey Windows software.NBA All-Star 2013 (Free)Just in time for the NBA's All-Star weekend, where the best basketballers do battle, comes this official app. It'll provide live scores, videos and photos, as well as voting and prediction games to keep fans occupied as they watch on TV.Hunches in Bunches (£2.49)The second Dr Seuss book-app this week, also from Oceanhouse, stars creatures including a Sour Hunch, a Very Odd Hunch, the Homework Hunch, a Four-Way Hunch, the Nowhere Hunch – all trying to give the young hero advice, of varying quality. Impish rhymes and good features for children learning to read make it a winner.The Poppin Princess (£3.73)This French children's app has recently been translated into English, which deserves to bring its charms to a wider audience. It revolves around a contest between a bunch of princesses to become the wife of a prince called Archibald, with lovely illustrations and plenty of interactivity for kids.Red in Bed (£1.27)And another children's app – it's a very good week for Android-owning parents – this time one that teaches kids about the colours of the rainbow. It tells the tale of the colours painting the world, apart from Red (who's ill in bed). Each colour gets its own musical note, too – ideal for tap-happy children.Auryn Ink (£0.62)Digital watercolour-painting app Auryn Ink won plenty of acclaim in its iPad version. Now it's available for Android tablets too. The hook is that it tries hard to feel like real watercolour painting, right down to choosing between wet or dry canvases, and watching the paint dry on the page.Tapestry (Free)If you're interested in the way fiction might develop through apps, Tapestry is an essential download. It offers short stories from various authors, displayed full-screen rather than in e-book style layout. Readers are encouraged to give feedback to the authors too.Roller Rally - Snake Pass (£0.69)Developer Milky Tea Play has worked hard to create the monsters that star in Roller Rally – Snake Pass – they're full of character. It's a side-scrolling racing game with 20 levels to complete, and new characters to unlock along the way.Paul the App (Free)Yes, this app really is named after That Octopus That Seemed To Be Predicting All The World Cup Matches. In this case, his name's being nabbed for an app that aims to learn your preferences, then serve you a selection of videos and music from sources including CNN, YouTube, Last.fm, Facebook and Twitter, saving them for offline use if desired.Jetpack Jinx (Free)More casual fun from developer Bubblegum Interactive: this sees you controlling a little critter named Jinx as he flies upward with a jetpack, collecting power-ups and avoiding obstacles as he goes.Bridge Constructor Playground (£1.49)This looks interesting: a game about building bridges (no, bear with me!) that's a sequel to another title called Bridge Constructor. Players work their way through 30 levels, building bridges and then seeing how they perform under a stress test. It looks good fun, but with educational value too.My Music Player (Free)A number of developers are having a crack at doing better than the default Android music player. It's early days for this one, which is based around organising music in folders. The idea being everything is always on-screen, rather than hopping from menu to menu.QuestLord (£1.27)If you grew up on first-person RPGs like Dungeon Master, QuestLord will provide a warm glow of nostalgia. But it's a good game in its own right, as you explore dungeons battling monsters, completing quests and admiring the neat pixel-art graphics.Wipeout (£1.27)No, notthatWipeout. This game from Activision – available in the US only at the time of writing – is based on the water-based bouncy-balls TV game-show, with challenges from the show to complete with "a range of wacky contestants". Much like the real thing, then.Forever Lost: Episode 1 SD (£1.49)If you're looking to sink your teeth into a proper adventure game on Android, Forever Lost is certainly worth a look. Myst is one obvious comparison for the game, which sees you exploring "a world you can't remember, surrounded by things that can't be real, haunted by experiences long forgotten". A bit like Fernando Torres every Saturday, etc etc.Oddland (Free)Post-apocalyptic Wild West game Oddland is billed as a "duel shooter". What that means is pointing a cross-hair at a succession of enemies faster than they can point one at you, with a campaign mode fleshing things out with a story and RPG progression elements.Hansel and Gretel (£2.32)Hansel and Gretel has been overdone on iOS, where there are lots of book-app versions available. On Android, not so much: and Milkbook's new version of the classic fairytale has plenty of charm. Lots of things to tap on, and a choice of English, Spanish or Italian language, could make it a hit for toddlers.Jambo (£1.49)Jambo wants to be "the next evolution in drawing games" – a step on from Draw Something, in other words. In this case, that means solving riddles drawn by other players, and drawing your own to submit in response. It's a one-player game – you're not competing against anyone directly – but you can challenge friends on Facebook and Twitter with your riddles.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your recommendations or give your opinions on the apps above by posting a comment.
Jim Balsillie, formerly the largest shareholder and co-chief executive of struggling smartphone company BlackBerry, has sold his entire shareholding in the business.The move, revealed by afiling released this week, occurred before the end of 2012, weeks ahead of thelaunch of the new BB10 software and Z10 handsetby new chief executive Thorsten Heins in an attempt to reboot the company's fortunes.Balsillie's shares would have been worth between $167m (£108m) and $396m, depending on when he sold them.The news is a further buffeting for BlackBerry, which despite proclaiming strong – though unspecified – early sales in the UK for the Z10, has been hit by further defections, including the decision by the US DIY chain Home Depot earlier this week to abandon its handsets in favour of100,00010,000 iPhones from Apple.The company has posted operating losses totalling $1.3bn in its past four financial quarters, and is now in a struggle with Microsoft's Windows Phone to carve out a spot as the "third ecosystem" in the smartphone market that isdominated by Apple and Google."Any time a single shareholder with over 5% of the float dumps everything, fellow investors should care,"commentedKevin Restivo of the analyst company IDC on Twitter. "A cynic might say Jim Balsillie's dumping of BlackBerry stock around product launch time is a big middle finger to his ex-colleagues" – though Restivo suggested Balsillie might have been seeking to diversify his portfolio.Balsillie and Mike Lazaridis, the other co-founder, wereousted from their positions as joint chairmen and chief executives in a boardroom coup in January 2012, after shareholders grew increasingly impatient with what they saw as management complacency over the risk posed by Apple and smartphones running Google's Android software.The decision by the Canadian to dump all his stock during 2012 – consisting of26.8m shares, equivalent to 5.1% of the stock – suggests he sees little promise in the company.However, Lazaridis, seen as influential in the development of the technology behind the BlackBerry brand, increased his shareholding during 2012 from 26.8m shares, or 5.1%at the end of 2011to29.9m, or 5.7% of the sharesat the end of 2012, according to corporate filings.Shares in BlackBerry, which renamed itself from Research In Motion at the same time as it launched the BB10 software, fell in value from $14.79 each in January 2012 to a low of $6.25 in October 2012, and $11.80 on 31 December. Since then, though, they have recovered to $15.05.BlackBerry said it did not comment on individual shareholders' ownership.Correction:this article was amended: Home Depot is replacing 10,000 BlackBerrys, not 100,000.
Friday! Beat that boss in DmC last night and got SSS for my troubles! Woohoo! Top of the world! Erm, anyway, how are you?
A burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBad news, Windows Phone fans: Google Now is the real deal &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott:When Windows Phone debuted three years ago, I lauded it for its innovative design, which was not just different to be different, but was simply better than that of iOS and Android. But I also recognized that Microsoft's faster moving competitors would quickly realize the advantages of Windows Phone and start building their own integrated experience. And that if Microsoft didn't move quickly enough, its advantages would be rendered moot.And that's what's happening. There are small examples of this, like Apple slowly integrating Twitter and then Facebook into iOS. And then there are big examples of this. Google Now is such a thing.So: 6,500 Win 8 laptops later, how are BT's field engineers coping? &gt;&gt; The RegisterAn unheard-of decline in PC sales figures since launch, a grumbling press and a user base that struggles without a touchscreen: Windows 8 is easy to take a swipe at. Yet BT announced in November last year it was deploying 5,900 Win 8 Panasonic Toughbooks for its "last mile" Openreach division – the engineers who walk the line from telephone exchange up to customer's premises.uBiome: sequencing your microbiome &gt;&gt; IndiegogouBiome is a citizen science project that allows the public access to cutting edge sequencing technology to understand their health through the microbiome.More British science (after Oxford University's self-driving cars). Don't know what the microbiome is? There's an explanation on the page. Get in quick - it's very cheap and there's only a couple of days left.Feature phone drama for Nokia in 2013 &gt;&gt; ForbesBut here's the problem: while Nokia's device sales grew faster than device volumes in affluent markets of Europe and North America, sales were weaker than volume growth in the important emerging markets of Middle East/Africa and Latin America. In Middle East/Africa, device volumes grew sequentially by 14%, but revenue only 9%. In Latin America, device volumes grew by 3%, while revenue actually shrunk by -9%.Why is this important? Africa and Latin America are particularly feature phone-heavy markets. They tell us how Nokia's feature phone strategy is working.A most peculiar test drive &gt;&gt; Tesla Motors blogTo date, hundreds of journalists have test driven the Model S in every scenario you can imagine. The car has been driven through Death Valley (the hottest place on Earth) in the middle of summer and on a track of pure ice in a Minnesota winter. It has traveled over 600 miles in a day from the snowcapped peaks of Tahoe to Los Angeles, which made the very first use of the Supercharger network, and moreover by no lesser person than another reporter from The New York Times. Yet, somehow John Broder "discovered" a problem and was unavoidably left stranded on the road. Or was he?The Tesla apparently monitored every detail of what the car was doing. The plot thickens.Elon Musk's data doesn't back up his claims of New York Times fakery &gt;&gt; The Atlantic WireMusk, who's earned quite a following after the glowing media coverage of his impressive futuristic empire (he's also the entrepreneur behind private space flight company SpaceX) saw his missive cheered along on Twitter, with some calling Tesla's evidence "damning," "amazing" and "powerful." But do all the annotated charts, lines, and points prove Musk's assertion that Broder staged his road trip to deliberately make the car run out of power? Let's take a look.Nothing like as clear-cut as Musk seems to think. With data, it's all about the interpretation - and sometimes the human on the ground knows a little better what they experienced. This one's not out of battery yet.A History of horrible Apple predictions from Peter Misek &gt;&gt; Cult of MacAs an analyst for Jefferies, Mr. Misek has a long and comical history of making some crazy claims about Apple's future plans. Who can blame him? It's his job to predict the future of Apple so investors can make decisions. The problem is a huge amount of his predictions were wrong, especially when it comes to the Apple HDTV, where Misek has (so far) been almost universally off-point.At least he didn't predict an iPad with tactile feedback. Thatwouldhave been silly.iOS 6.1: Excess Exchange activity after accepting an exception to recurring calendar event &gt;&gt; AppleApple has identified a fix and will make it available in an upcoming software update. In the meantime, you can avoid this bug by not responding to an exception to a recurring event on your iOS device. If you do experience the symptoms described above, disable then reenable the Exchange calendar on your iOS device using the steps below.The universality of "turn it off and on again" as a fix is astounding.Samsung is planning an enormous launch for the S4 &gt;&gt; Business InsiderJay Yarow, quoting Jefferies analyst Peter Misek:According to Misek's sources, Samsung is planning to build 100 million S4s from launch until the end of the year. He thinks the phone is launched in the March-April time frame."The enormous 100m S4 build plan (we estimate the S3 sold 60m) is leading some suppliers to say that they will reallocate resources away from Apple," writes Misek, adding, "The S3 also had enormous builds and came within 10% of meeting them on an annual basis."Does Misek mean that Samsung overproduced S3s, or failed to make enough? Unclear. Misek also says Apple "wanted" to release a 4.8in screen this year "but manufacturers are struggling to make the screen Apple wants". A bit hard to evaluate the truthiness of that one.(Also isn't "4" unlucky in Korea, which has led some to think that's not going to be the naming for the SGS3's successor?)The Macalope: Survey shenanigans &gt;&gt; MacworldFollowing up from that OnDevice survey the other day, showing Motorola devices (a client of OnDevice), HTC and Samsung ahead of the iPhone 5 in user satisfaction:Even CNet's Whitney noticed things were a little off with this survey: "Some of the findings seem a bit odd, especially since OnDevice Research didn't reveal all of the devices included in the survey."Or the demographics. Or how respondents were selected. Or how they found anyone who owns an HTC phone, let alone people willing to rate it higher than the iPhone 5.Meh. Should we all give up surveys for Lent? (Thanks @jseths on Twitter for the link.)10 tips to keep your mobile devices charged and happy &gt;&gt; TechHiveSome of these are good. Some however...4. You can use any Micro-USB cable to charge your phone if the phone has a Micro-USB port.For devices that have Micro-USB ports, you can use any cable that has a Micro-USB plug on the end for charging; you don't need a special cable.Er, thanks.Global tablet shipments to suffer 20% drop in 1Q13 &gt;&gt; Digitimes ResearchWorldwide brand tablet shipments are estimated to reach 33.8m units in the first quarter of 2013, down 21.8% sequentially, but up 75.8% on year, according to Digitimes Research senior analyst James Wang.Apple's iPad series shipments will enjoy a close to 5% sequential growth to reach 22m units in the first quarter, accounting for 65.1% of the total volume as changes in iPad series' life-cycle (launch schedule) in 2012 will help the iPad devices to suffer less impact from seasonal factors. However, seasonality will significantly impact demand for non-iPad tablets, causing their combined shipments to drop 46.9% sequentially to 11.8m units with a market share of only 34.9%.Unclear if Digitimes counts the Surface (RT or Pro) as a "tablet". Certainly seems likely that sales of the Kindle Fire and B&amp;N Nook would drop sequentially.Fast fibre: A community shows the way &gt;&gt; BBC NewsRory Cellan-Jones:people like Harry and Susan Ball are now entering the superfast broadband era. The retired couple told me they knew little about computers and had got used to the fact that it was almost impossible on their slow connection to watch video or use Skype. Now Harry is able to watch the iPlayer streaming in HD, and Susan has become a B4RN volunteer, helping to dig trenches for the fibre.But, after raising half a million pounds from locals who bought shares on the promise of a fast connection, the project now needs to move to the next stage. In the Arkholme village hall this afternoon, B4RN is holding an open day, inviting anyone to drop in and test the broadband connection on their phones or computers.The hope is that many will sign up to the £30 per month service, but that some will also buy shares in B4RN. Another £1.5m is needed if the full 265KM network is to be rolled out. That sounds ambitious - but having spent 24 hours watching the volunteers digging trenches, blowing fibre and learning a process called fusion splicing I can see they are a very determined bunch.For £30 per month, they get about 900Mbps down, 500Mbps up. How does your broadband compare?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The world of electric cars is usually seen as one of mildly eccentric do-gooders striving to solve the world's all-too real addiction to fossil fuels by developing vehicles that can be recharged with a plug.Buta New York Times test driveof a new model of Tesla electric sports car has instead now descended into a bitter war of words, allegations of lying and fraud and a rapidly ballooning media and technology scandal.Elon Musk, the founder of Tesla as well as private space firm Space X,has now released detailed computer logsthat he says are from the onboard computer of a car that New York Times reporter John Broder took for a disastrous test drive that ended with the vehicle being towed away.According to Musk, the records reveal that Broder's account of his experience with the brand new Model S car differs in key areas from what the computer logs say happened. On a Tesla blog Musk stated: "Our Model S never had a chance with John Broder … he simply did not accurately capture what happened and worked very hard to force our car to stop running."Broder's initial report of his test drive in the newspaper certainly made painful reading. On a trip attempting to travel between Washington and Boston – to explore the creation of new recharging stations on the east coast – Broder detailed a nightmare journey. His Tesla, he said, repeatedly logged miles below what he expected and what the car told him the range was, leaving him limping along at slow speeds to conserve energy.Eventually the car ran out of juice and had to be towed away. The headline on the piece read: "Stalled Out On Tesla's Electronic Highway".Not surprisingly Tesla were offended. On Twitter and television, Musk called the story "a fake". Broder then in turn robustly defended his journalism as did the New York Times itself. In a Times motoring blog called Wheels,Broder wrote: "My account was not a fake. It happened just the way I described it." He then went on to tackle various assertions made by Musk and defended his writing.Tesla's outrage and sensitivity might have been explained by a previous experience with the BBC's motoring show Top Gear. In December 2008, a review of the Tesla Roadster showed the car being pushed by the presenters into a hangar at the test track after apparently running out of charge. Tesla claimed the car had not actually run out of charge and sued for libel. The case was dismissed last year in a British court.But one result of the spat with Top Gear was that Tesla then made sure that it always logged data from media test drives. Now Musk has published what he says is the data from Broder's trip and detailed how he says it directly contradicts key aspects of the Times' account.He says the logs show that the car never fully run out of charge, even when a tow truck was called. Musk also says that – contrary to Broder's account – he never set the car in cruise control at 54 mph and never drove at a constant speed of 45 mph in order to conserve the charge.It also addresses Broder's claims that he had to turn down the car's heating system to save energy on what was a freezing day. "At the point in time that he claims to have turned the temperature down, he in fact turned the temperature up to 74 F," Musk said in a blog post filled with graphs and data.But, perhaps most damagingly of all, Musk claimed the reporter at one point appeared to have driven in circles around a car park to run down the charge. "After taking an unplanned detour through downtown Manhattan to give his brother a ride, the display said "0 miles remaining". Instead of plugging in the car, he drove in circles for over half a mile in a tiny, 100-space parking lot. When the Model S valiantly refused to die, he eventually plugged it in," Musk said.Such serious allegations are unlikely to go unanswered by the New York Times and Broder. Onhis Twitter account, Broder promised a further response and posted a link to his initial defence of the piece. "Stay tuned," Broder said. Meanwhile, the New York Times public editorMargaret Sullivan announcedthat she would be investigating the issue. "On Tesla I'm on it, as they say. May take some time. Meanwhile, look for a point-by-point response on Wheels blog soon," she said.Sullivan later wrote a noteon her blogon the Times' website in which she revealed that Musk had not yet returned a phone call and that she would be interviewing Broder later on Thursday. "I will keep reporting on this, and, for now, am simply telling readers what I know so far," she wrote.She revealed that she intended to ask Tesla to fully release all its data so that others could examine it and acknowledged that the allegations made by Musk were devastating if shown to be accurate. "Mr Musk's contentions are devastating ones for any journalist," she said.
Move over into the slow lane, Google. Scientists at Oxford University have developed a self-driving car that can cope with snow, rain and other weather conditions not found in the search giant's home in California. The system can be fitted to existing cars and could one day cost just £100.Developed by a team led by professor Paul Newman at Oxford University, the new system has been installed in a Nissan Leaf electric car and tested on private roads around the university, will halt for pedestrians, and could take over the tedious parts of driving such as negotiating traffic jams or regular commutes. The car alerts the driver when it is ready to take over - and by pressing a button on a screen, the driver can let the computer take the strain.The search giant Google has been working on self-driving cars for years, and has now won approval for their use in the US states of Nevada and California. But so far it hasn't shown them off in the UK. By contrast, the Oxford system has been demonstrated on public roads – and as long as there is a licenced driver in the driver's seat, "there's no obvious legal barrier to using it on roads now," professor Newman told the Guardian. "It's essentially an advanced driver assistance system."Dr Martin Spring from Lancaster University, who co-authored a paper on the potential of driverless cars, said that in time they could radically transform how we think of road transport: "As with many technologies, the early implementation will try to mimic what has gone before. But once you shake off the constraint of it having to look like a car, you can envisage a very different vehicle: it could look like a small room where people do what they want while the car is moving. And if you don't need lights to navigate, you don't need streetlights. Or headlights."Newman thinks that it could be only 15 years before self-driving systems become commonplace in cities as the price of installing the systems drops: "At present it costs about £5,000, but we're working to reduce that to £100," he said.The car has been tested running at up to 40mph, said Newman.Rather than using the GPS navigation system, which can be unreliable in cities where "urban canyons" caused by buildings block signals, and only accurate to a few metres, the British-developed system uses 3D laser scanning allied to computer storage to build up a map of its surroundings – which is accurate to a few centimetres.The auto-drive system works by recognising where it is, based on a laser scanner on the front of the car, comparing its surroundings to its stored data. That's different from Google's system, which uses a combination of GPS, laser guidance – from a roof-mounted laser – and mapping to determine its location and route.The Oxford system, developed through funding from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, could be extended so that each car downloads data from passing cars, or over the internet via 3G and 4G connections to a central system. That would mean that the car wouldn't have to store data for the entire country at any time: "You don't go from London to Glasgow in a single hop. So as you're driving along, the car could download the new maps from the internet for the journey ahead."Larry Page, Google's chief executive, believes self-driving cars have enormous economic and health implications: they should cut the number of road deaths, either through drivers' attention wandering, or through driving too close to other cars and being unable to react. Traffic would flow with fewer interruptions – people might even prefer to send their car to drive around for a while rather than trying to find a parking place.The technology giant already uses a self-driving car to impress guests: last year when Martin Sorrell of WPP Group was visiting the company, he was picked up from his hotel and delivered to Google's Mountain View headquarters 20 miles away by one of the cars. "It was pretty incredible," Sorrelltold Fortune.By contrast Newman's team has only been working on the scheme for two years, and only received the Nissan Leaf car in September. Yet it has been able to connect the computer control systems to its steering wheel, brakes and other systems. "Cars these days are pretty much fly-by-wire – the computer controls it all," Newman said.The computational power required to navigate is already cheaply available, as is the storage for the 3D maps that the car would use to figure out its location. "Our cities don't change very much, so robotic vehicles will see familiar structures and say 'I know this route - want me to drive?'"But he emphasises that "it's not total autonomy for the car. It knows when things are good, and when the risks are reasonable, and then it will offer to take over." If the car can't make a match, it won't offer to drive – and the decision is always the driver's, Newman emphasised."What I'm really proud of is that this is British technology and British intellectual property," he said. "It shows what a British university group can do when we put our minds to it."Self-driving cars could save thousands of lives per year: in the UK, more than 2,000 people and in the US more than 30,000 people died in vehicle accidents last year.
In this week's edition of Tech Weekly the Guardian's technology editor Charles Arthur meets Sonos co-founder Tom Cullen to discuss their latest product – the Playbar for TV.  Cullen reveals the genesis of the wireless sound system company and where he thinks connected home entertainment technology is going.Digital correspondent Jemima Kiss meets Irish tech entrepreneur Dylan Collins to discuss his latest project,Box of Awesome, a mix of data technology and old fashioned discovery.And we have a news round-up of the week's tech news including fears thatE.U. spending cuts might negatively effect the rollout of rural broadbandin the UK andover a "Google for spies".The music featured in this weeks edition is by Chilean musicianHere Hoiand can be downloaded for free on his Soundcloud account.
Have you ever enjoyed a first-person shooter (FPS) game on a tablet or smartphone? Really enjoyed it, I mean.I've tried very hard with technically-polished games like Eliminate, the N.O.V.A. games and Call of Duty: Black Ops Zombies, but they haven't quite clicked, usually because I'm thinking too much about the controls – virtual analogue sticks in particular.Ben Cousins has been thinking the same thing, but he's actually doing something about it. His Stockholm-based development studio,Scattered Entertainment, is working on an iOS first-person shooter calledThe Drowningwhich aims to junk the virtual sticks.Cousins used to work at Electronic Arts on its Battlefield series of FPS games, and has hired development talent for his new studio with experience on franchises like Halo, Far Cry and Need For Speed, as well as games like Bullet Storm and Crysis."Early on, the tablet struck me as a really great gaming platform just because it's convenient enough that you can play it anywhere," he says."It's big and high-resolution enough that you can have almost as good an experience as playing on a big TV. There's something about playing shooters on a tablet, and having it close to your face, that provides an intimacy like on PC."Cousins played a number of FPS games on tablets, and found he was always dissatisfied by their controls – specifically with the standard feature of controlling movement with his left-thumb via a virtual stick."It's like a joystick with the weakest spring possible on it, and loads of travel," he says. "I wanted to create a mobile shooter that appeals to everyone who likes the idea of playing a shooter on a mobile device, but there's a cap on the number of gamers you can reach with a virtual-stick system."Several months, lots of prototyping and some instructive focus-group sessions later – "One guy said 'why can't I just tap the enemies to shoot them?' and it flipped a switch in my head," says Cousins – The Drowning's controls were up and running.You'll tap on the screen to move to that point, swipe to look around, and tap two fingers on-screen to shoot at the midpoint between them. I haven't played it, but a video released by Scattered Entertainment (embedded at the bottom of this interview) looks impressive.Cousins is certainly confident that the controls are intuitive and well suited to touchscreens, without dumbing down the actual gameplay."Our shooting system is infinitely faster, more accurate and skill-based than using a joystick," he says. "It's a bit more like using a mouse to shoot. And it plays to the strengths of the device: you have this sense of directly interacting with things, of tactile control."The Drowning, which starts with a spate of mysterious bird deaths and quickly escalates into a global zombie-infested disaster, will be published by Scattered Entertainment's parent company DeNA, which is best known for its lucrative free-to-play mobile games platform Mobage in its native Japan.So yes, The Drowning will be a freemium game: free to play and making its money from in-app purchases.It's not the first freemium FPS on iOS – ngmoco's Eliminate came out in November 2009 – but as thecurrent storm around Real Racing 3shows, applying freemium mechanics to a core gaming genre can be controversial.Cousins says it's his tenth free-to-play game, so he's something of an old hand. He says DeNA's experience will be important in ensuring it's fun to play rather than a pay-me-please grind."They come from this extremely competitive and lucrative Japanese free-to-play business, which is years ahead of the West in terms of the sophisticated monetisation of games," he says."It's not about how to fleece people out of money. They realise that if it's got to be fun and integrated into the gaming experience. If you talk to guys in Japan, they're always talking about making the monetisation fun and useful and interesting, so it's positive for the player rather than a negative experience."Ben Cousins of Scattered EntertainmentThe structure of The Drowning sounds interesting, with action chopped up into two-minute bursts in arenas – "we took lessons from Bejeweled Blitz" – where players will have to deal as much damage as possible to the zombies, then scavenge the battlefield for parts to make new weapons and items.The scavenging will be "a user interface a bit like playing a slot machine," according to Cousins. "Tap a button and we'll randomly throw an item at you. But you'll be able to spend a small amount of money to get another scavenge on that turn. There's also one character who you can give money to to get access to a junkyard where you can scavenge for rare weapons."He suggests that it's important that the scavenging will be for parts rather than entire weapons, saying DeNA has learned in Japan that if you "give people something powerful just for spending money", it shortens their lifespan in the game."It's just instant gratification, whereas if you give them something to do, they're more likely to stick around," he says."It's that sense of randomisation and excitement about not knowing what you're going to get, rather than just spending $15 on an ultra-powerful weapon. It's only been tried in the Western world with card-battle games, but The Drowning is the first time these mechanics have been attempted in a core game."The Drowning will be released on iOS first, but Cousins says a team in The Netherlands has already started work on an Android port of the game."We're iOS-first in terms of timing, but tablet-first is the focus for our studio, even though we'll support small-screen devices too," says Cousins."The games we want to create work better on tablets. This isn't a game that's going to have an Angry Birds level of downloads. It's a smaller, hardcore audience more likely to be playing on tablets."Won't they be preferring to play on consoles or PCs though? Actually, Cousins thinks there's a significant audience out there of what he calls "lapsed gamers" who are more likely to be playing on tablet devices in the living room."It's older guys like me who've lost that moment in their lives where they sat down in front of a TV and played a game for four hours, yet who aren't quite satisfied with Angry Birds. A lot of those guys have tablets now," he says.
I take pictures with a Canon DSLR camera, and use Canon software (EOS Utility, Zoom Browser and Digital Photo Professional) to edit them on a 4.5-year-old Toshiba laptop. The laptop is still reliable (though slowing down) with a decent screen and still enough oomph to do the editing.I have decided that a tablet would enhance viewing the photos with the ability to swivel the screen, portability and so on. But experimenting with my wife's iPad, I have found that I cannot transfer the folders as they are on the PC, nor preserve the original file information (date taken, name etc). Nor does the iPad reliably display photos in the order they were taken.Can you recommend a tablet or a convertible laptop that would meet my viewing and file management requirements? I would hope that using the tablet for browsing, email etc would also preserve the life of the Toshiba.Tim LockeThe iPad is a very good device for displaying photographs, though it can be somewhat inflexible. Probably the simplest way to use it is to create albums in Apple's iPhoto or Aperture programs on a laptop and then sync these to the iPad, which will show images in the order you chose in iPhoto. You can also use Keynote, Apple's presentation software, to display photos. However, iPhoto and Aperture are Apple-only. You would have to buy an Apple laptop to run them.AnApple support documentsays you can use iTunes to sync photos from a Windows PC and Adobe Photoshop Album 2.0 or later, or Adobe Photoshop Elements 3.0, to an iOS device such as an iPad, though that this is a one way trip. (I don't run iTunes on PCs and don't have the Adobe programs, so I haven't tried it.) There may be other ways of doing it, as well.Android tabletsAndroid tablets are cheaper and a bit more flexible than iPads, and they are becoming popular with DSLR owners. Buy one with a microSD or SD card slot and it would be handy for looking at pictures while you're out shooting. There are also programs such asDSLR Controller, which, according to the blurb on the website, "allows you to fully control your Canon EOS DSLR from your Android device, with nothing more than a USB cable".You could use an Android tablet with either a 7in or 10in screen, or something in between. Pictures look better on bigger screens but smaller devices are easier to carry around. Pictures should also look better on a tablet that has an IPS or Super-PLS screen, and these provide wider viewing angles. (Super-PLS is a Samsung version of IPS.)Both iPads and Android tablets work best as companion devices. It's quicker and easier to do serious editing and file manipulation (including batch processing) on a laptop or desktop PC. Professional photographers use programs such as Adobe Photoshop and Lightroom, but there are plenty of cheaper programs available. Good free options includePaint.net,Zoner Photo Studio,Irfan ViewandMicrosoft Photo Gallery.Windows 8 tabletsIn theory, a Microsoft Windows 8 tablet, convertible or transformer would solve all your problems. In principle, the tablet part of Windows 8 (formerly known as Metro) can do anything an iPad or Android tablet can do, while offering a cleaner, more modern user interface. Windows 8 also includes a full Windows desktop that is little changed from Windows 7, so you should still be able to run your Canon software and other applications. You will have to learn how to use the start screen instead of the start menu, but this is certainly no harder than learning a whole new tablet user interface, and your file operations will work the way you already like.The result is that you get both a tablet and a Windows laptop in a single device. You can almost instantly switch from editing and sorting your photos on the laptop part to viewing them on the touch-screen tablet without having to copy the photos across or go through a tedious export routine.However, this does involve some compromises. First, it's not a cheap solution. Windows 8 convertibles have to cost more than ordinary laptops because they include much more expensive parts, such as SSDs (solid state disks) and multi-touch screens. You will save some money through not having to pay for two motherboards, two screens, two SSDs and so on, but that's probably not how most buyers will see it.Second, Windows 8 works well as a tablet, but it may be a big tablet. Microsoft's Surface Pro, for example, is thin and light by laptop standards, but quite a bit heftier than most 10in tablets. (The ARM-based Surface RT version is smaller, lighter and has long battery life, but it doesn't have an Intel processor and won't run your Canon and Toshiba software.)Price problemsPC manufacturers are solving the price problem by using cheaper Intel Atom processors (familiar from netbooks) instead of Core iX chips (used in Ultrabooks). Atoms are like the ARM chips used in Android tablets: they are power efficient – which means longer battery life – but relatively slow. At the moment, the standard option is a dual core Atom Z2760. This is an improvement on old netbook chips, but still slower than a typical Core 2 Duo and nowhere near as fast as a third-generation Core i3. Use Notebookcheck'sComparison of Mobile Processors (CPU Benchmarks)to see how the Z2760 compares with the processor in your old Toshiba. The Toshiba may well be faster, though a Z2760 might be fast enough.If you take this route, there are several options on the market, such as the Acer Iconia W510, Asus Vivo TF810C, Dell Latitude 10, Lenovo IdeaTab Lynx and Samsung Ativ SmartPC. For the most tablet-like experience, choose one where the screen can be detached, rather than rotated or folded backI have not tested any of these PCs, but I have had brief hands-on sessions with the Acer W510 and Dell Latitude 10, and they seemed to perform quite well. However, the Acer W510 costs more than£500 at Amazon.co.ukwhile theDell Latitude 10comes out at £493.20 including VAT and shipping (£24).Like the Asus Transformer, the Acer W510 has a second battery in the keyboard dock, which Acer says "gives you up to 18 hours of battery life". It also works in three modes: as a laptop, as a standalone tablet, and as a presentation device. Considering it has an Intel processor and Windows 8 rather than a cheap ARM and almost-free Android, it's reasonably priced compared to, say, an Asus Transformer TF700 (£599). However, it has much less raw power than a traditional £500 laptop.Convertibles like these should suit schools, where versatility and long battery life have a lot of value, and data is stored on servers rather than 32GB SSDs. They can certainly display your photos, browse the web and handle email, but they are not designed to run heavyweight applications.Windows tablets with Core iX chips can run the full Adobe Creative Suite, Microsoft Office and other professional software, at a price. Examples include Microsoft's Surface Pro, Dell's XPS Duo 12, HP's Envy X2, Lenovo's IdeaPad Yoga 13, Samsung's Ativ SmartPC Pro, Sony's VAIO Duo 11, and the dual-screen Asus Taichi.While Z2760-based convertibles cost around £500 to £750, Core iX-powered models are roughly twice the price. TheLenovo IdeaPad Yoga 13convertible Ultrabook, for example, costs £999.999 with a Core i7-3517U, theDell XPS 12 Convertible Ultrabookis £1,299, while the Asus Tailchi and Sony models have recommended prices around £1,500. This is MacBook territory.Possible solutionsIn sum, this is a very tricky problem. The cheapest hardware solution would be to go for a 9.7in or 10.1in tablet with a capacitative screen display and a card slot. It will display photos – check the screen resolution carefully – and otherwise give you a way to explore Android and its plethora of photo apps. Examples include the Acer Iconia A200 (£205) and the A1CS Fusion 5 Xtra (£155).The best solution at around £500 would be an Atom-powered Windows 8 tablet with a detachable screen, such as the Acer W510. This will provide a tablet for showing photos while also replacing the Toshiba for most applications, including email and web browsing, but it won't provide the big power boost you'd get from a Core i5-based laptop. Since this is a non-essential purchase you might be better off waiting six or eight months. The Windows 8 market is in its early days, and prices should come down as production volumes increase. Also, Intel has new chips coming, such as the exciting range currently code-namedHaswell.If you feel like making a great leap forward, and want to spend £1,000 to £1,500, you could go for a Core iX tablet — perhaps even a Microsoft Surface Pro, when it's available in the UK. But this type of machine is really a corporate or enthusiast purchase at the moment. You're not one.So, I think you should explore ways to make your wife's iPad display photos in more amenable ways, even if it means buying Adobe Photoshop Elements(£57.61)and installing the dreadful iTunes for Windows. Unless a reader has a better idea, of course …
Google is celebrating Valentine's Day and George Ferris's birthday with a two-in-one doodle.Ferris, born on 14 February 1859 in Illinois, is most famous for designing and building the original ferris wheel for an exposition in Chicago in 1893. The directors of the World's Columbian Exposition wanted an exhibit that would rival or even surpass the Eiffel Tower, which had been built in Paris in 1889, and Ferris's wheel was chosen.The interactive doodle features two ferris wheels with a fairground backdrop. Pushing a heart button on the doodle spins the wheels and brings up pictures of animals, who then appear going on dates.In recent years ferris wheels have movedout of amusement parks and into city centresand they are getting bigger too. The tallest is the Singapore Flyer in Singapore, which reaches a height of 165 metres – 30 metres higher than the London Eye.
Crowdfunding website Kickstarter isn't just a website any more: the company is launching its own iPhone app.It's the first time Kickstarter has had an official mobile presence, with the app – afree download from Apple's App Store– targeted both at people backing projects and those creating them."To make the Kickstarter app, we took things we've learned from the past three years of building Kickstarter and used them to redesign the experience from the ground up,"explains the company in a blog post."We focused on three things in particular: finding new projects, keeping up to date with projects you've already backed, and offering great tools for creators."Users can browse projects by category, from music, food and art through to technology and games. The app will play creators' videos, and tap into the user's current location to highlight projects nearby.Users can pledge to projects from within the app, then follow their progress, including updates from the creators. Social features include the ability to see when Facebook friends back projects or launch their own.For creators, there are features to keep them notified about new pledges and stats from their project dashboard. A practical feature is the ability to post photos and videos from their iPhone. With regular and personal updates an important factor in Kickstarter success, this feature is likely to get a lot of use.Previously, there have been unofficial Kickstarter mobile apps –Kickstarter Projectson iPhone andKickstarter Mobileon Android being two examples – but nothing official.Interest in the new app is likely to be high. In 2012, more than 2.2m people in 177 countries pledged just under $320m on Kickstarter, successfully funding 18.1k projects, according to the company's2012 year-end review.The site opened to projects from UK-based creators at the end of October 2012, and sawjust under £2.1m pledged to their projectsin November.One key question is how many of those 2.2m backers own iPhones. Kickstarter hasn't announced whether it's working on versions of the app for rival smartphone platforms like Android, Windows Phone or BlackBerry, or on a mobile website that would run across all of them.
BT's plan to make millions of dollars from licensing its patent portfolio by suing web giants including Google has run into a problem: Google and its phone subsidiary Motorola Mobility are countersuing it for patent infringement, calling the lawsuit filed in 2011 by BT "meritless" and accusing it of using shell companies to file other suits.Google claims that BT infringes four Google patents connected to the transmission of files over a network - based on three patents that it bought from IBM in 2010, and one from Fujitsu. It also said that it has filed a separate action in the UK. Google in its US court filing claims BT infringes patents on networking and making phone calls over the internet."BT has brought several meritless patent claims against Google and our customers – and they've also been arming patent trolls," said Google in a statement, referring to shell companies – also known as "non-practising entities", or NPEs – which simply own patents and demand licensing for them from larger businesses. NPEs bear little risk if a lawsuit fails, unlike a larger rival which might have to pay legal costs if it failed to win its case.BT in December 2011 said that Google was infringing six patentsdealing with mobile connections through its Android mobile OS, Google Music, Gmail email service and Google Maps platform. The case was filed in Delaware, but is still pending. BT said at the time that "the patents in question relate to technologies which underpin location-based services, navigation and guidance information and personalised access to services and content. BT's constant investment in innovation has seen it develop a large portfolio of patents which are valuable corporate assets."The damages claim could run into billions if successful. BT filed the patents in the 1990s, when it was one of the companies in the forefront of the mobile phone business.Google's alleges that BT has been attacking it through Suffolk Technologies, an NPE, in the state of Virginia using a patent previously owned by BT.Florian Müller, a patent industry expert,commented on his sitethat Google's position on "trolls" – also known as "non-practising entities" – seemed ironic: "Google's statement does not explain why it's fine for IBM and Fujitsu to arm Google but unacceptable that BT sells some of its intellectual property to third parties (no matter what the intentions behind such transactions may be)."The trading of patents between companies has become increasingly common as they aim to fend off attacks from others. Google "lent" a number of patents to the handset maker HTC to countersue Apple. It acquired Motorola Mobility principally for its giant patent portfolio – which it has valued at around $5bn – although it has seen little obvious benefit, instead having to agree to government-mandated restrictions against using any patents deemed "essential" to seek sales bans.BT has had little obvious success in applying its patents against international rivals. In 2000 itclaimed that Prodigy, then one of the US's biggest internet service providers, and 16 others were infringing a patent that it claimed against the hyperlink. Theclaim was rejected in 2002by a judge who said there was no evidence of infringement because BT's patent relied on a "central computer" – and the internet has no central control.
I've probably told you this story before, but a couple of weeks ago I almost destroyed my copy ofDmC, Ninja Theory's reboot of the Devil May Cry series. I was stuck on a boss fight with a giant demonic baby, and although I understood what I was supposed to do, I couldn't do it. I just couldn't. I knew I had to avoid the infant's gigantic swipes, I knew I had to attack with aerial combos, I knew a weak spot would eventually open up. But I couldn't do it. So I took the disc out and threw it. It rebounded off two walls and landed behind my desk. If my window had been open, I would have tossed it into the garden.And I thought to myself as I fumbled for the disc amid the dust and fallen Lego minifigs behind my monitor, was that fun? Am I having fun? Instantly, I recalled the many occasions in which I have abused gaming peripherals in the past, stretching waaaay back to the Commodore 64 – when I was young enough to know no better."Dad, the stick has come off myQuickshot II!""How on Earth did that happen?""I don't know... Can I have another one?"But I did know. I did. I couldn't beat my friend's high score in California Games so I wrenched the stick off in a bizarre phallic attack. It took me four weeks of paper rounds to buy a new one.From here I thought, well, is frustrationpartof game design or afailureof game design? Certainly, frustration has been there from the beginning. Eurogamer writer Christian Donlan once interviewed Eugene Jarvis, the creator of early and immensely difficult arcade titles like Defender and Robotron – he claimed that he would visit arcades and inspect the coin-op cabinets of his titles, feeling immense pride if they had clearly been kicked or punched. In fact, here he is talking about the twisted appeal of Robotron, and he makes a compelling case:That's fine, you can't argue with Eugene Jarvis. But... But is it also possible that frustration is the evil, undesirable twin of compulsion? That it can only motivate the truly obsessional, the truly hardcore? It certainly exists on the tipping point between needing to continue and wanting to throw the disc at the wall. But the question is, is it on the right side of the tipping point or the wrong one?Adam Saltsman, the brilliant designer of compulsive games such asCanabaltandHundreds, sees frustration as a necessary element of certain titles. "I guess for me frustration is a vital part of mastery," he says. "A lot of games are kind of about mastery, one way or another, so it makes sense that this is in there.Super Meat Boyis about a very tactile, physical mastery, a kind of iterative testing and improving of your internal mental model of how the controls map to the results in the world. You have to train your nerves to react and manipulate your fingers according to that model."Games likeBraidorEnglish Country Tune, I think, are a bit more about mental mastery, as opposed to physical, and you kind of have to push up against a frustrating obstacle for a while in order to have that epiphany – the thing that gives you pleasure, that breakthrough in understanding. I think there is a kind of temporal frustration in grind-based dungeon crawlers too, where you really want Armor X but you have to kill a bunch of dudes to get enough money to get it. And at least within reasonable bounds, that is kind of a pleasurable thing - you're making a plan, and executing on it."So frustration is not a universal commodity. It's okay in some games, let's say, but it's not necessarily okay in all of them. Indeed, some studios have developed clever ways to sidestep frustration. The Easy mode is the obvious one, and it has become prevalent now that games are a mass entertainment medium. Most narrative adventures will offer an option for players, 'who just want to experience the story'. However, I can't help but wonder if this is a dereliction of duty on their part – if you have produced a game with a win state, there should be a way of challenging inexperienced players without spoon-feeding them narrative sequences in between one-hit kills and dozens of lobotomised enemies.Nintendo has a better approach. Miyamoto has mastered the art of distraction gameplay, of providing sideshows for any player nearing frustration. In the Legend of Zelda titles, for example, it's very rare that Link is utterly stuck – there are always side quests to attempt, new places to explore at different times, fresh characters to interrogate. Progress is pleasingly scattershot and non-linear. Open world games like GTA are the same; they offer flexible systems of progress and reproach; whenever they shut a door in your face, they usually also open another one just off to the side. In game design terms, side missions are the collateral damage of activity. Sometimes in Zelda, you win something by accident.Popcap is another master of compulsion subterfuge, but it uses a different approach: it segregates its win states with multi-tiered structures of completion. You can beat a level in Peggle just by meeting the minimal requirements, but there are also combos to pull off to reach high scores and achieving that triggers lots of lovely visual and audio rewards – fireworks, rainbows, onscreen compliments. It's digital dopamine. But once you start chasing that stuff, they've got you, you're into the frustration zone.Price and expectation can come into this equation. At GameCity last year, I interviewed designer Bennett Foddy, who makes extraordinary physics challenges likeQwopandGirp. He admitted that because his titles are ad-supported and free, he sometimes actively sought to frustrate the player to the point of their despair – it's okay, they can walk away. But he also sees frustration as a necessary motivator. Victory in video games doesn't really matter in the real world and therefore players have no need to learn to play well. But if they're frustrated and angry, they have to continue. As he explains, "players who are trying to playwellare typically more engaged in the game. We're trying to build engagement, so players can have that experience — which videogames are so great at providing — of being completely immersed and involved."It's interesting though, that he uses the term engagement, which I think is the flip side of the compulsion coin. Engagement could be read as the positive state before frustration flows in. Maybe that is the true aim of good design? According to writer and theoristRaph Koster, pacing and variation are the necessary components in a compelling experience that doesn't frustrate – the human brain enjoys learning patterns, but if it finds the process too easy or too hard, it quickly becomes bored. And boredom leads to frustration and anger.  I think one of the reasons the real-time strategy genre has been so enormously successful is that it cleverly telegraphs what you need to do – unlock more powerful units – and then provides whole new strata of gameplay when you have them. The compulsion loop is perfect – both predictable and expansive.What has become clear, however, is that frustration is rarely an accident – not togoodgame designers anyhow. Those guys know what they're doing. And they don't have to do it. "I list frustration along side 'power fantasy', 'compulsion', and the other commonly evoked emotions in current games," says Chris Hecker, currently working on the fascinating asymmetrical two-player shooter,Spyparty. "But, I don't think it's required for every game any more than sadness is required by every piece of literature.  It's a tool, nothing more; it just happens to be one that's easy for designers to wield, so it gets used a lot."Of course, the key differentiator of our form is interactivity, and if you are truly empowering the player to succeed, then you're also empowering them to fail. But even failure doesn't have to be frustrating. Failure can be merely useful feedback to the player."I put this question to Mike Bithell, the Bafta-nominated creator of platforming game,Thomas Was Alone. Platform games are often seething hives of frustration, but Thomas isn't – it has a whimsical charm that deflates those emotions. "I feel like frustration might be aside effectof compelling games," he says. "Whenever I've liked a 'frustrating' game, it's not been for the frustration, it's been for the moment of success which follows. In that sense, I guess frustration is contextually important, as the memory of a frustrating moment makes the win far more satisfying."But players are pretty tuned into spotting when the frustration is through bad design rather than challenging gameplay, and it's a very quick way to lose someone. I'd always aim for accessible complexity and challenge, rather than deliberately setting out to frustrate."So frustration is a tool, but it's a dangerous one: the circular saw of game design. The trick is to use it right. It's about balance. "All the best things in life are addictive," says Foddy. "There are good, meaningful games that are pure engagement-machines, like Terry Cavanagh's Super Hexagon. The dividing line between abusing players and pleasuring them can be very vague and hard to find... just as it is in the case of junk food, sex and drugs."So why do I think DmC is using it wrong?Maybe it's this.All games are systems of abstraction – they remove elements of reality in order to get to the kernel of fun. Need for Speed: Most Wanted would be insufferable if your Porsche 911 engine kept over-heating; Guitar Hero would be less entertaining if you had to spend half an hour tuning your instrument every time you played. Game designers who depict real world activities must remove the peripheral inconveniences we put up with in reality in order to streamline the experience. In games, we just want to get to the fun.So maybe frustration is a failure of abstraction – it's when a game doesn't quite remove us from the labour of activity. I think DmC is a wonderful game but its combat system, which garners its depth from requiring players to switch quickly between two shoulder button-based modifiers, leads to physiological frustration: I can't get my fingers in the right places fast enough. Compare this to Street Fighter or Virtua Fighter: these games have very smooth button progression systems, designed to ease players through the input. Very good fighting game players are often described as 'piano-ing' the buttons – the challenge is in memorising and timing the moves, and understanding opponents, not in physically carrying out the sequences. That part should be instinctive. It isn't in DmC.The other possibility, of course, is that I could just be crap at it. I'm prepared to accept that... but then I wasn't crap at Bayonetta! Or God of War! Argh!Later that night, I wiped the disc and put it back into the Xbox. It was working, which was a relief, but also not a relief. Because I knew what I was heading toward: frustration at the chubby hands of a colossal demon baby. Whatever you think about game design, that is never pretty.
Erm, happy Valentines Day! Love you all!
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft Surface Pro Teardown &gt;&gt; iFixitMicrosoft Surface Pro Repairability Score: 1 out of 10 (10 is easiest to repair)• The battery is not soldered to the motherboard, so at least no soldering is required to replace it.• The SSD is removable — but you risk killing your tablet by trying to open it.Going the distance: driving the Tesla Model S in the real world &gt;&gt; The VergeRemember the New York Times?After lunch, we returned to the car and set out for Morro Bay. We intentionally didn't seek out a charger in Santa Barbara because we wanted to push the Model S's battery to its limits: the Performance model is rated for 265 miles, it's about 200 from LA to Morro Bay, and Tesla warned us that we'd lose a little range with a car full of equipment and people, perhaps getting 250 miles out of it. Also, we were being generous with the accelerator and running up and down some fairly hilly terrain, another knock on our total range.That's not the worst of it.Four Android phones beat iPhone 5 in US user satisfaction, but Apple still takes first place overall &gt;&gt; The Next WebDespite this, Apple still held first place in the US on an aggregate level, followed closely by Google with its Nexus devices. Rounding out the top five, Motorola was third while HTC and Nokia tied for fourth. Samsung was way down in 13th place, even below BlackBerry. This further shows we're talking about a numbers game: manufacturers that make fewer but arguably better devices rank higher than those that make a wide array of them at varying levels of quality.The least surprising part of the survey was the 4G impact. The top five devices for satisfaction in the US are all 4G capable devices, and users with a 4G subscription reported a higher device satisfaction (7.76) than those with no 4G subscription (7.28).We're all looking forward to 4G, aren't we? (Thanks @beardyweirdy666 for the link.)Apple is the No.1 handset maker in Japan now &gt;&gt; Counterpoint ResearchApple took 16% market share in the fourth quarter of 2012 and 15% for the full year of 2012 reaching the No.1 spot for the first time in annual terms. It has been No.1 since November of last year.Other foreign brands such as Samsung and LG also increased share in Q4 and the combined share exceeded 50% for the first time in Japan's history. Japan is no longer a Galapagos Island as global brands start to dominate.In this report it shows that Apple has struck gold in the Japanese market as its share reached 16% in Q4 and 15% for the full year of 2012. Traditional local champions Sharp and Fujitsu each took 14% of the market in 2012. Apple ended Sharp's 6-year reign last year as it took the crown. Apple had already temporarily displaced Sharp in Q4 2011 but Sharp soon took back the No. 1 spot for the first half of 2012. For the full year of 2012 it was a close call between the three top players in Japan but Apple rose to supremacy at last.Top 10 Android devices - Galaxy S III takes top spot in Jan &gt;&gt; LocalyticsAndroid has a new top device, and to nobody's surprise it's another variant of the Samsung Galaxy. The Samsung Galaxy S III took over the top spot in January from its older brother, the Samsung Galaxy S II, and Samsung's place as the dominant Android device maker continued: of the top 10 Android devices in January, eight were made by Samsung, and seven were some variant of Samsung Galaxy.Just to repeat that: eight out of the top ten Android devices used worldwide are made by Samsung. Amazon's Kindle Fire is the most-owned tablet, by the Localytics numbers. The only other non-Samsung device in the top ten is the Droid RAZR.Anatomy of a vulnerability – cURL web download toolkit holed by authentication bug &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityOne risk with an all-singing, all-dancing library, of course, is that there's more code to go wrong.And sometimes, even obscure bits of code you thought you'd never use might get triggered. Worse still, they might be triggerable by external circumstances you never predicted.That's the curly problem here.Fascinating writeup of a flaw in curl (we use it - but not the flawed routine dissected here).The future according to Google's Larry Page &gt;&gt; Fortune TechPulling a quote out would be unfair to this piece; just read it.Dell vs. Dell shareholders - the term sheet &gt;&gt; FortuneTo go private, Dell needs approval from a simple majority of shareholders not named Michael Dell. That works out to just north of 42%.&lt;p:By my count, institutions holding more than 14% of Dell's outstanding shares now have signaled their intentions to oppose. And none have come out in favor.For context, Dell's ten largest outside stockholders hold less than 30% of the company's outstanding shares. That means that the big institutions alone don't have the mathematical muscle to stop this train, but rather are banking on their powers of reputational persuasion (i.e., if the large oppose, the small will follow).Perhaps not such a done deal after all.Open Data Field Guide &gt;&gt; SocrataA comprehensive guide to ensuring your open data program serves you and your citizens.With Insight From: City of Chicago, City of New York, City of Edmonton, State of Maryland, State of Colorado, Code for America, The World Bank, City of Baltimore, State of Oregon, and more.Apple cuts MacBook Pro, Air prices as much as 15% &gt;&gt; ComputerworldApple rarely lowers prices, but instead typically keeps them static while swapping out CPUs for faster silicon, or beefing up other components, such as memory or storage space."They've got slow growth in PC sales like everyone, and lower prices help," said Ezra Gottheil, an analyst with Technology Business Research, who also cited efficiencies in Retina screen production and processor price cuts as likely contributors to Apple's decision.The 13in. MacBook Pro with the higher-resolution Retina display received the largest cuts, with the lower-priced of the two stock configurations falling $200 to $1,499 and the more expensive of the pair dropping $300 to $1,699. Those decreases represented cuts of 12% and 15%, respectively.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Spanish police have broken up a gang of cybercriminals whose "ransomware" virus demanded money from thousands of users in 30 countries by pretending to be a message from the police.The 11-strong gang laundered more than a million euros per year since mid-2011, sending money back to Russia. The leader, a 27-year-old Russian, was arrested while on holiday in Dubai in the United Arab Emirates in December on an international arrest warrant. Spain is seeking his extradition. On Wednesday the rest of the group – six Russians, two Ukrainians and two Georgians – were rounded up by Spanish police in the Costa del Sol.The arrests point to the growing cooperation between private organisations with hi-tech expertise in identifying the source of some of the commercial "malware" used to infect computers and steal data or persuade people to hand over money, and police organisations in multiple countries which have insufficient time or resources to perform that analysis themselves. The latest arrests were helped by the security company Trend Micro, but in other cases Microsoft and the security companies Symantec and F-Secure have played major roles in pointing to the locations of criminal gangs.The "Ransomware" virus would freeze Windows PCs and then display messages on the screen claiming to be from police authorities, including Europol, which said that the user had been fined €100 for accessing file sharing, child pornography or terrorist sites. Researchers from security company Trend Micro, who were pivotal in tracking down the origin of the software, said there were 48 different variations of the virus in use.Early versions of the software were first seen in Russia in 2005, but the gang refined it so that it would display appropriate logos for the police in which country the user's PC was being used.Europol director Rob Wainwright – whose name was used in the scam – estimated that "hundreds of thousands" of European had been affected by the scam. "If we take into account that the average fine was €100 ($130) and 3% … paid it, then the estimated damage is millions of euros," he said.Spanish policesaid in a statementthat since first discovering the virus in May 2011 they had received 1,200 complaints – but that the number affected was "certainly much higher".The 10 men arrested on Wednesday were used for the money laundering, while the 27-year-old was behind the virus's design. The money laundering system involved a system known as PaySafeCard/UKash vouchers, to which the "ransom" was paid, and which was then sent from the US to the gang in Spain, where they converted it into ready cash and wired the money to Russia.Trend Micro said: "This coordinated activity – in much the same way as theTrend Micro/FBI action against the DNS Changer gangin 2011 – leading directly to the arrest of individuals believed to be actively engaged in cybercrime, rather than simply taking down associated infrastructure, should serve as a model for how the security industry and law enforcement can effectively cooperate int he fight against online crime."
President Barack Obama introduced a cybersecurity executive order in his state of the union address that offered a broad outline of how the government plans to deal with cyber threats.The eight-page documentoutlines a process that allows government agencies to work with private industry to combat cyber threats, while seemingly addressing concerns of citizen privacy. Past legislative attempts at cybersecurity have been criticized by groups who believe bills like Cispa violate privacy by allowing information-sharing between private industry and the government.Gregg Housh, an internet activist associated with the hacking collective Anonymous, told the Guardian that while the executive order is broad, "of everything we've seen so far, this is about the best we could hope for".In the next four months, the attorney general, the secretary of homeland security and the director of national intelligence will start looking at specific ways to improve cybersecurity. The government is due to produce a preliminary cybersecurity framework draft later this year and have a final version ready a year from 12 February."The biggest and most important thing to me right now is that while we have a basic framework here, and some of it is surprisingly positive looking, we don't know exactly what this is going to end up being," Housh said.One thing Housh is concerned about is the way the government aims to protect citizen privacy and civil liberties. The order says the Department of Homeland Security is set to provide recommendations for how to minimize and mitigate privacy and civil liberties risks in a public report to be released February of next year."The very idea that the DHS will be policing itself is the thing that frightens me the most," Housh said. "The people who were tasked with actually protecting the privacy and civil liberties are the people who work for the DHS. It seems counter-intuitive to me that they are allowed to police themselves."Housh has been following Anonymous since 2006, and was involved in their campaign against Scientology, though he says he has never taken part in any of their illegal acts. He called the government's tactics for dealing with the hacking collective and other other online hacktivists as "old-school"."It seems no matter how many people they put behind bars, no matter how many people they arrest and ban from computers, somehow, government websites, the Fed and everything else are perfectly free game for people like Anonymous," Housh said. "So the very idea that you can take down a few people, scare everyone away, and that you've got the only really talented people is ludicrous. It's proven to be ludicrous."He said that form of dealing with hacking "is only pissing off more people and making more people want to join up".Housh does think the executive order is an improvement on previous cybersecurity legislation, though."Unlike Cispa, this is going to not give these people immunity for sharing tons and tons of information with the government, and I think that is one key difference," Housh said.His statement echoes those of other open-internet advocates, including the ACLU and Electronic Frontier Foundation, who are happy with the broad order because of how it addresses civilian privacy.Michelle Richardson, a legislative counsel for the ACLU, said she hopes the order can fend off legislation like Cispa. "With all of the horrible things out there, we're really glad that they are focusing on those sort of programs instead."Richardson called the order privacy neutral because it sets up the processes for the government to work with critical infrastructure to determine cybersecurity standards at a later date."The good news is: it really encourages information-sharing from the privacy-sharing from the government to the private sector, instead of the opposite direction, which is the scary part," Richardson said. "It's more problematic when it's about companies turning over their customers' records."The order does make room for the government to temporarily hire private-sector cyber threat experts to provide information to critical infrastructure owners on how to reduce and mitigate threats.Amy Mushahwar, a counsel at Ballard Spahr with more than 15 years experience in cybersecurity, said that by calling for legislation, Obama displayed his recognition of industry's desire to have research and development and liability protection included."The executive branch anticipates that without some sort of liability protection, one-way information sharing is all you can expect from industry, until we do something about the potential liability of companies if they share cyber threats," Mushahwar said.
Possibly the last thing you want as a console manufacturer, at the very dawn of a new hardware generation, is to have an ex-staff member criticising your whole approach in a vitriolic blog post. But that's exactly what's happened to Microsoft. Nat Brown was on the original Microsoft team that proposed and developed the Xbox concept – he even came up with the name (although he originally wrote it 'xBox'...). But he's not happy with his previous employer.In a post entitled'Stupid, stupid xBox', he berates the company for failing to innovate, coasting on early successes and getting the modern games market completely wrong:My gripe, my head-smack, is not that the broader content/entertainment business isn't where you want to go with a living-room-connected device. It absolutely is. Indeed, this was the point of xBox, that was why it was the Trojan horse for the living room, where we could land and be welcomed by millions of console customers with more hardware and better software and network connectivity than the non-console devices (webtv, cable set-top-boxes) we had been pursuing. No, more and better content was always the point and the plan.My gripe is that, as usual, Microsoft has jumped its own shark and is out stomping through the weeds planning and talking about far-flung future strategies in interactive television and original programming partnerships with big dying media companies when their core product, their home town is on fire, their soldiers, their developers, are tired and deserting, and their supply-lines are broken.His frustration is that, unlike Apple, Google or Valve, Microsoft has failed to build a development environment that allows smaller studios to quickly and cheaply produce and distribute their games. While iPhone developers have a comparatively swift route to market via the App Store, studios hoping to get their wares on Xbox Live or the well hidden Xbox Indie Games service have to wade through paperwork and approval processes. "Microsoft," he writes, "You are idiotic to have ceded not just indie game developers but also a generation of loyal kids and teens to making games for other people's mobile devices."He also takes issue with the Xbox 360 user interface, which beyond the main dashboard, he refers to as "creaky, slow, and full-of-shit". The process of saving games and updating with new content is dismissed as unnecessarily cumbersome and complicated:"So, because these two critical issues – user experience and indie content – are not nearly in order and I see big investments in future interactive content happening, as well as idiotic moves to limit used games or put harder content protection into place than exists in mobile or tablets – i predict massive failure and losses here."He has a point – but elements of his rant are as relevant to PlayStation as they are to Xbox. Both Sony and Microsoft have shown a determination to chase media partnerships with the likes of Netflix and Hulu at the expense of creating really welcoming developer environments. While VOD services may broaden the range of entertainment offerings, it is usually content that's available on every other computing device, not to mention on your TV. And when I switch on my Xbox or PS3, I'd much rather see an advert for a new interesting indie game than the latest subscription offer from LoveFilm.Although Xbox and PlayStation aren't directly competing directly against iPhone and Android at a consumer level, theyarefighting for developers; I've spoken to several studios that have given up producing (or trying to produce) content for digital platforms like PSN and XBLA because they were losing money, or simply failing to get through the approvals process. They're now making PC or smartphone games.It's clear that console manufacturers have to discover a means of ensuring quality control and security for customers, while providing an ecosystem that welcomes developers. This is a major challenge for the next generation of consoles. It's a challenge that the man who helped invent Xbox thinks may already have been lost.
Smartphones will make up more than half of all mobile phones shipped worldwide by the end of March, new figures from the research company Gartner suggest.Data from the fourth quarter of 2012show that smartphone shipments hit a record high of 44% of the overall mobile phone market of 472m. With smartphone numbers growing by almost 40% year-on-year every quarter, while shipments of "featurephones" drop by around 20% in the same period, that would put smartphones substantially ahead of featurephone shipments - at 286m against 211m - during the first quarter of 2013.Featurephones v smartphones, historic sales and estimated figure for Q1 2013. Historic data source: Gartner. Estimate: GuardianUpdate:see end of article for a revised graph, based on seasonal factors.Data from Canalys, another analysis company, says that in China smartphones made up 73% of shipments during the quarter - of which about 90% were running Android, though some would be using versions which do not connect to Google's servers.Apple's iPhone dominated in the US, where carrier cost structures mean that Android phones are often no cheaper than a more expensive iPhone when acquired on a contract. Apple was the single largest phone vendor in the US during the fourth quarwter of 2012, according to research company Strategy Analytics, which said that it passed Samsung there to provide 34% of handsets sold there - 17.7m against 16.8m for Samsung - with the two companies dominating the market there too, capturing 66% in total of overall sales.Samsung dominated both the mobile phone and smartphone markets, shipping a total of 107m worldwide in the quarter, of which about 64m were smartphones. Nokia was second in the overall mobile phone market, shipping 85m, while Apple was third with 43.4m.Together, Apple and Samsung accounted for 52% of the smartphone market - up from 46.4% in the third quarter - said Gartner.The data from Gartner also shows that the fight for third place in the smartphone market has become neck-and-neck, with BlackBerry and Microsoft's Windows Phone within half a percentage point of each other during the fourth quarter of 2012, according to new data from the research company Gartner.BlackBerry v Windows Phone: shipment figures suggest a battle in 2013But the challenge faced by both is thrown into stark relief by the headline figures, which show that Google's Android and Apple's iPhone together powered more than 90% of smartphones shipped during the period - leaving BlackBerry with just 3.5% of the total and Windows Phone at 3.0%. Although BlackBerry shipped 7.3m handsets, and Windows Phone powered 6.2m, the contrast with the 43.4m iPhones and 144.7m Android phones is stark.Smartphone market growth: Android has driven a dramatic rise in shipments"2013 will be the year of the rise of the third ecosystem as the battle between the new BlackBerry10 and Windows Phone intensifies," said Anshul Gupta, Gartner's principal research analyst. "As carriers and vendors feel the pressure of the strong Android's growth, alternative operating systems such as Tizen, Firefox, Ubuntu and Jolla will try and carve out an opportunity by positioning themselves as profitable alternatives.""Normalised" figure for the smartphone market: Android and iOS dominate, while once-dominant Symbian (blue) has almost vanishedThe challenge for carriers is to find phone suppliers - and software - that can differentiate them from rivals who are offering exactly the same range of phones.Android powered just under 70% of devices shipped during the period, with South Korea's Samsung on its own accounting for an estimated 62m handsets running Google's software. That means it accounted on its own for almost half of all Android shipments - and points to its increasing dominance both in handsets and in its ability to control the direction of Android's future development.Update:the "estimate" graph above suggests (almost certainly wrongly) that total handset sales will rise in Q1 2013 compared to 4Q 2012. That's unlikely (as people have pointed out).To get a better estimate, I've tried to use Gartner's numbers with the Q1 2012 numbers - which leads to a forecast of about 414.9m handsets in total (on a gradual 1% decline year-on-year: for 1Q 2012 the total was 419.1m)With smartphone sales growth running at 40% from the previous year, that gives 207.6m smartphones in this first quarter, and 207.3 for feature phones. A much more close-run thing, but definitely still a win for smartphones. (Thanks Carolina Milanesi of Gartner and Tero Kuittinen on Twitter for suggestions.) That means the graph looks like this:Recalculated: historic figures for smartphones and featurephones (Gartner) and forecast for 1Q 2013 (Guardian)To reiterate, the figure for Q1 2013 is my estimate, not Gartner's.
It didn't start as a reboot. That was one of the interesting revelations during last night's Tomb Raider event at Bafta. Crystal Dynamics, the California-based studio, which has been in charge of the iconic series since 2003, originally envisaged the latest title as a sequel to 2008's, Tomb Raider Underworld. But then along came Casino Royale and Batman Begins and the whole concept of an origins story started taking shape."Bond and Batman faced the same challenges as us," explained studio head Darrell Gallagher, who – joined by creative director Noah Hughes – gave a talk about the development of Tomb Raider. "They were iconic characters who had to be refreshed and modernised for a new generation. These stories were a reaffirmation to us, that we could do this."It turns out the idea of re-inventing Tomb Raider went back further than that, however. Crystal Dynamics took on the franchise when original developer Core Design fumbled the poorly received sixth instalment, Angel of Darkness. After completing a trilogy of fairly traditional sequels, Crystal decided to strike out,  producing the downloadable spin-off title, Tomb Raider: Guardian of Light. "We took some really odd steps with it," explained Gallagher. "It still had the Tomb Raider DNA, but it was a top-down dual-stick shooter. We loved working on it and the reaction of fans showed us that people were ready for something new. That was very encouraging."Soon after development of the current Tomb Raider began in 2009, the decision was made to scrap work on the Underworld sequel, to effectively wipe the slate clean with an origins story. "We wanted to take bold steps," said Gallagher. "There were big questions - what goes, what stays? Do we keep the backpack, do we keep the shorts, the pony tail? Is she still British? All of these were asked. Internally, there was huge debate."He was also keen to stress that Crystal Dynamics had creative control; that the process of re-booting the series was governed by them. "You don't make decisions based on group consensus when you're trying to create something," he said. "Group feedback is great, but consensus can spin you in all sorts of directions. I hear people say this was a game built in a focus testing lab, but that's not the case. This wasn't a game overseen by a bunch of suits at Square Enix who came in with clipboards and said, 'this is what you're going to do'. It didn't happen like that. We stuck to our guns, we believed in what we were doing."Indeed, according to Gallagher, it was year before the project was shown to Square Enix executives. He took an early trailer of the game to the company's office in London and showed it off. It reveals a very different version of the young Lara on an island setting – all with a voice over introducing the origins concept: "I'm not perfect, I'm not bullet-proof. I bleed…". When the video ends, Gallagher says, "I think we nailed it". The project was instantly green lit.In 2011, Crystal Dynamics released the first teaser trailer for the game, produced by Square Enix Japan's in-house CG agency, VisualWorks. It showed Lara, freshly graduated from university, on a ship bound for the South Pacific – her first expedition as a budding archeologist. The vessel is wrecked in a storm and we see Lara struggling onto the shore of an island, wounded, scared and alone. The trailer set in place the mood of the game, something Crystal Dynamics characterised within the studio during the early stages of development as 'a survivor is born' – a phrase that would go on to become the tagline.According to Gallagher, the designers then started to draw inspiration from real-life survival stories. They read Alive, Piers Paul Read's famous account of a plane crash in the Andes, and studied interviews with Aron Ralston, the climber forced to cut off his own arm when trapped by a falling boulder in Utah. The ambition was to create more of a human hero, rather than the "ice queen" portrayed in some of the earlier games – and the risible movies. "We needed to take Lara from the beginning of her story, with big ambitions but without experience, and put her in a situation where she would be forced to grow," said Hughes. "The survival theme really became the crucible in which we would forge the heroine."From here, the development team had to work out how to craft a game from survival – "as a creative director, you can't walk up to someone and say 'make it more survivally'," said Hughes. So they broke the concept down into different areas: 'survival action', brutal, raw action sequences; 'fight to survive', the idea of endurance and determination in a hostile environment; and 'survival instinct', the ability to adapt and use resources. What they wanted to achieve with Tomb Raider was a gritty story of guts and human instinct, a cross between Rambo in First Blood and Ripley in Aliens.The company started experimenting with game mechanics, pitching Lara against the environment. During his talk, Gallagher showed a very early prototype video (at a time when the game was still going by its working title Ascension), of Lara leaping between grey-scale rock faces – at one point carrying a child on her back – and strafing flat-shaded polygon enemies; she's also seen riding a horse across a beach. "We were forging the identity," says Gallagher. "A lot of those ideas were cast aside, but the themes were bubbling away already."The aim was to retain the classic elements of the Tomb raider games - traversal, combat and puzzle-solving - but to modernise them and infuse them with the survival theme. They pushed the idea of dynamic traversal, the ability of players to control Lara even while jumping, the ability to pick your own path through the world. The designers came up with the idea of the island's gear boxes, which provide Lara with new equipment, thereby increasing her exploration abilities and opening up new channels of exploration from the key hubs. With combat, they moved from a lock-on based system to a free-aim third-person shooter mechanic, but to reflect the survival theme, the odds were stacked against Croft – apparently, it's not about dominating opponents any more, it's about desperate fights for life.As for the puzzles, physics has become a central component. "This is partly because technology allows us to do that now, through simulation," says Hughes. "But also, it allows players to explore elements such as water, fire, buoyancy, mass and pulleys, and how they react together  – it's an understanding of how things work." The idea was to weave together the components – the inexperienced Lara, the hostile setting, the more frenzied combat – into a different sort of gameplay experience for the series. "You sometimes hear discussions about whether something is a design-driven game or a story-driven game," says Hughes. "For us this was neither, it was an experience-driven game. We wanted to bring to bear the emotional power of story and the engagement and emotional investment of gameplay – we wanted you to feel like you were on this journey with Lara."A key element of the design process seems to have been visual story-telling – a desire to express the themes and the narrative, not just in the cinematic sequences, but within the gameplay and the environment. The team based the island setting on the Dragons Triangle, an area of the Pacific ocean synonymous with lost and wrecked craft, and it is filled with messaging. Those dilapidated galleons on the shoreline, aren't just there for visual effect, they symbolise the idea that nothing escapes this place. "We wanted a raw, hostile environment," says Gallagher. "The second most important character in the game is the island, every part of it supports this idea of a perilous journey, the forging of a hero."The choice of weapons plays into this. The shiny, showy twin pistols are gone, replaced by scavenged shotguns, a climbing axe and, of course the bow. "It's this raw primal tool," says Gallagher. "It's more than just a function, it's part of the new iconography of Lara."For the story, Crystal Dynamics started with a short story arc which was then taken on by Rhianna Pratchett, the experienced video game writer whose previous work includes Mirror's Edge and Heavenly Sword. Pratchett then fleshed this out into a longer treatment, and finally a script – a process that took months of iteration. The designers then created a spreadsheet aligning key story beats with puzzles, combat encounters and equipment pick-ups, eventually producing a colour-coded timeline of the game, showing the prevailing emotion of each sequence. This provided artists with a handy reference point when actually building the game: for example, if the location fell in a blue/downbeat area of the production document they knew to create an overbearing, gloomy environment to reflect the action. "The character arc was also extremely important to us," explains Hughes. "So we even tracked where each of the key evolution points takes place for Lara. We wanted to make sure it was all paced correctly through the duration of the game. Once we had the blueprint we could make sure the whole team worked to the same framework."It was, then, an interesting insight into the development process at Crystal Dynamics. It'll be fascinating to see how this determination to deliver a story about self-discovery translates into actual gameplay. After effectively four years in development – a process that involved not just Crystal Dyamics but also the Square Enix facility in Montreal and other studios around the globe – the world is curious about this return of a nineties icon, but it is also skeptical. Lara has a lot to prove, not only in the game, with its hostile island filled with murderous mercenaries, but in an industry where the notion of narrative gaming has moved on. And let's face it: for traditional publishers these days, all game releases are about survival.• Tomb Raider is released on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 on 5 March
According to Apple chief executive Tim Cook, his company hasnow paid out $8bnto iOS app developers. That's up from the$7bn milestonethat Apple announced on 7 January, indicating a billion-dollar month for App Store payouts.To put that another way, once you add in Apple's 30% cut that's the same as 1.4bn sales of Angry Birds – or for younger readers, 1.4bn wagons of virtual Smurfberries.Or, indeed, enough to fund Bjork's Kickstarter campaign to port her Biophilia app to the Android and Windows 8 platforms 3,809 times over. Not that this is high on Apple's priorities, obviously.More seriously, if you want one statistic to explain why so many important and/or innovative apps still come out first (or only) on iOS, it's the $8bn total payouts figure.How does Android compare? Well, that's the point: Google hasn't ever announced developer-payout totals for its platform, and nor to my knowledge have Microsoft or BlackBerry – although the latter has suggested a few times that its developers earn more on average than those on rival platforms.All too often, the tone of the smartphones debate in the comments section of sites like this one runs thus: "If you don't agree that my favourite platform is the best, you must be stupid or biased. Or both." With corruption thrown in for good measure when a journalist is being addressed.App developers? Some love Apple, Google, Microsoft or BlackBerry so much that they only want to develop for one platform, sure.Most, though, base their development decisions less on stupidity or bias, and more on pure pragmatism: where can their apps make money? $8bn of iOS payouts is a persuasive argument in Apple's favour on this score.Now the caveats. What Cook didn't say – why would he? – is that the majority of iOS app developers aren't taking a significant chunk of these payouts. The App Store sales-tail has fat pickings at the top, but barely crumbs for the bottom (and, quite possibly, much of the middle).Analytics firm Adevencoined the term "App Zombies"in 2012 to describe the two-thirds of available iOS apps that it claimed had sunk without a trace on the App Store. Less undead, and more never-alive in the first place.Still, Apple's regular announcements of its cumulative iOS payouts – $2.5bn by July 2011, $4bn by January 2012, $5.5bn by July 2012, $7bn by January 2013 and now $8bn – are fuelling developers' dreams of making it big.In the absence of comparable figures from the three main rivals, what should Google, Microsoft and BlackBerry be doing? Pushing more individual case studies of success stories on their platforms would be a smart move.Not based on total downloads, not even active users, and especially not "users in x countries around the world" metrics. Actual revenue figures showing how developers are building viable businesses by looking beyond iOS.In short, show me (well, developers) the money! BlackBerry was actually onto a good idea in this regard with its attempts to show that a good app, promoted by the platform owner on a less-crowded app store, can make a good return on investment.That hints at the most sensible strategy for BlackBerry and Microsoft as they look to win more developers round to BlackBerry 10 and Windows Phone 8 – with funding (or guarantees of minimum income) helping too. Google may prefer to focus a bit more on mobile advertising success stories, of course.As a postscript, the $8bn figure also gives us a new data point to work with when judging the App Store's value to Apple.If it can maintain a monthly rate of at least $1bn of developer payouts, Apple's 30% cut would make the App Store a $5.1bn business for the company annually.
EA liked Australian developer Firemint's first two Real Racing mobile games so much, it bought the company. NowReal Racing 3is on the verge of release for iOS and Android, but a switch from paid to freemium is causing controversy.For a taste of the outrage, read TouchArcade'sHow the Free to Play Model Will Work in Real Racing 3article – an even-handed explanation of the game's freemium mechanics.The gist: players will face wait times when repairing, upgrading and unlocking cars in the game unless they spend virtual coins – earned through play or purchased in-app – to skip the wait.Journalist Jared Nelson acknowledges that there will be "trepidation" over the switch from paid to freemium – "a business model which has many benefits but has also been abused enough times in the past that people feel the need to approach with caution" – but concludes that in Real Racing 3's case, the model is handled well.It's safe to say commenters on the article don't agree: "This is how you kill an AAA game… EA are more evil than the retiring Pope… No way in hell I'm buying any freaking virtual coins… This just reeks of a company who's sold out… F**k EA f**k firemonkey and f**k freemium… I will never make peace with freemium" and so on.It made me think a few things. First: Goodness, internet commenters can be angry – not a huge surprise in this parish, admittedly. Second: MAN ALIVE, perhaps wait and play the game before making a final judgement on how well or badly its freemium mechanics work?(Third: At least I have a better idea how to use "neckbeard" as an insult. And I didn't have to pay a cent for that knowledge…)But it's important not to simply write this backlash off as a few angry commenters letting off steam about a game they haven't yet played – the mobile gaming world's equivalents of right-wing rentaquotes who'll happily condemn a film, game, book or speech without having seen, played, read or heard it.No, something else I took from the TouchArcade comments – and similar responses posted on theReal Racing Facebook Page– is that people really do love this franchise. Having a fanbase who care enough to get angry is a testament to the craft that went into the first two Real Racing games.People love Real Racing, and for those keen enough to be posting comments on previews of the game, there are genuine concerns about the effect going freemium will have on its charms third time round.Do they have good reason? There are plenty of bad examples of freemium games on smartphones and tablets: games designed to make you cough up cash regularly with the threat of mirthless grinding if you don't. Final Fantasy: All The Bravest being the most recent example, for me.Against that, there are good examples. Pocket Planes for one: a game that dishes out its virtual currency in liberal measures, making the payment decision come from you ("I want to expand into China! Right now!") rather than pushed upon you by the game ("You have to expand into China next! But we'll make you grind for weeks unless you pay!")The craft that went into the previous Real Racing games makes me want to give the new one a fair shot, with high hopes that it'll fall into the latter category. Hopefully the majority of existing fans will feel a similar way: play first then judge.Should the games industry worry that bad freemium games will tarnish the model as a whole, though? A quick look at the App Store charts should dispel that.The free-to-play games making the most money – Clash of Clans, Candy Crush Saga, The Simpsons: Tapped Out, Temple Run 2, Rage of Bahamut, Ruzzle, Kingdoms of Camelot and others – are games that people are genuinely enjoying. A lot of people.This is perhaps the final thing to consider about Real Racing 3: EA and its studio are taking a calculated gamble that by taking the game freemium, it will reach a much bigger audience to more-than counteract any existing fans who drift away."We looked at it closely, and the market was demanding games with this model," EA's Nick Earltells CNET. "It's an opportunity to get it in front of far more people."My personal concerns about energy-based freemium systems – those that delay you from playing if you don't pay – is that they throw up a barrier at exactly the moment you might be falling in love with a game, and wanting to play and play and then play some more.Without overdoing the love analogy, throwing a payment mechanism in your way risks turning this moment into just another business transaction, rather than a grand romance.It's a risk rather than a certainty though. Real Racing 3 may yet be the next monster freemium success on iOS and Android, but just as importantly, also a game that delights existing and new players alike. Judgement should be reserved until it's actually in their hands.
Tim Cook is not just any CEO. He is the CEO of Apple. That's not an administrative job; it's a Messianic one. He doesn't run a technology company, the way that Michael Dell runs a technology company. Cook runs a minor religion.So when Apple's stock price falls sharply, losing one-third of its value in only six months to plop down to $475, and a major activist investor like David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital takes aim at Apple, and a venerable journalist like Bethany McLean nails 95 theses to the wall declaring Apple worth only a paltry $200 – well, then, it becomes clear that it is time for Cook to go minister among his flock.Cook has been making the rounds this week, offering soothing benedictions about the value and the worth of Apple. He will sit next to Michelle Obama tonight at the state of the union, showing that Apple is a company that America can be proud of.Today, Cook took to the stage at the Goldman Sachs technology conference to do something rare for an Apple CEO: defend his company's stock. He didn't put it that way, of course, but that is the only reason that companies, particularly those as leery of the press as Apple, go to these conferences: to convince investors to pour money into them. The purpose is to make their case, or, as Wall Street calls it, to "tell the story" of the stock.At the Goldman conference, Cook really settled into his priest-like role, trying to explain to investors why Apple deserves their faith. He talked about Apple's superior user experience the way that a prince of the church might lyricize about the rituals of masses; he said that companies that focus on technology "specs", like processor speed or memory size, lack Apple's grace in creating a whole picture. "They want that a-ha! moment," Cook said of users. "Spec is the enemy of experience." Translation: technical knowledge is nothing like faith.When he talked about the controversy around new Apple products that may "cannibalize" old ones, Cook used openly theological terms. He said that each Apple product does not cannibalize its brothers, but rather "creates a halo" around them – so that people who have an iPad will want an iPhone, and so on. The system unites them; the products are holy by association, like orthodox relics.When he talked about Apple's controversial plan to keep its cash on hand, he talked about not in financial terms but as "doing something good" and said anyone who is campaigning against Apple's plan would do better to donate their money to charity. Cook spoke of Apple's infallibility, as the Catholic church once used to speak of its own. "The only thing we'll never do is make a crappy product," he declared. "That's the only religion we have: we have to do something great, bold, ambitious."Cook knows he doesn't just have to preach to the converted. Apple has captured most of them and now needs to expand its users, to evangelize among users of Windows or Android products. For the skeptics who are left, who aren't sold on user experience or the ritualistic belonging that Apple products give, Cook offered the lure of a clearer conscience: he said he doesn't have many bad days, but when he does, he goes into an Apple Store and it's "like Prozac." Who needs votives or pharmaceuticals when an iPad mini fulfills you?Apple Maps: one of the company's few, but critical, mistakes.Cook is a smart man, clearly, but he is on thin ground here. Apple does in fact make crappy products on occasion, like the first Apple TV, which never caught on, or iTunes Ping, the social network for music, and more recently, Apple Maps. In fact, the release of the disastrous Maps app in September was the harbinger of Apple's falling stock price. (Apple Maps is, by the way, still crappy: the other day, a friend Instagrammed his Apple Maps request for directions to "58 East 34th Street" in Manhattan. What came up on the Apple Maps was a location in a largely uninhabited part of Saskatchewan, Canada.)Still, Cook is no fool. He knows that you can't fight numbers with more numbers; people lose track. Apple has never been that company. It tries to appeal to the better angels. It knows that it is not the most popular technology company; its appeal is not based on numbers. It counters facts with arguments for faith. Umberto Eco once compared Apple to the Catholic church, and Windows to Protestantism:"[Mac] is cheerful, friendly, conciliatory, it tells the faithful how they must proceed step by step to reach – if not the Kingdom of Heaven – the moment in which their document is printed. It is catechistic: the essence of revelation is dealt with via simple formulae and sumptuous icons. Everyone has a right to salvation.DOS is Protestant, or even Calvinistic. It allows free interpretation of scripture, demands difficult personal decisions, imposes a subtle hermeneutics upon the user, and takes for granted the idea that not all can reach salvation. To make the system work you need to interpret the program yourself: a long way from the baroque community of revelers, the user is closed within the loneliness of his own inner torment."Let's talk about salvation. There is no question that Apple needs some. It's not in dire straits. The company is perfectly healthy, with solid profits, $137bn of cash in the bank, and a stock price that, at $475 a share, is still incredibly strong. Yet stagnant profits and and the drop in its stock price indicate that Apple should be thinking about changing its ways.Investors, journalists and pundits have enjoyed chewing this over.  Reuters bloggerFelix Salmon argued recentlythat Apple should ignore its stock price, that it is based on nothing, that the stock says very little about the future of Apple, and that the company should not be concerned. Allan Sloan, a veteran columnist for Fortune,theorizes that investorsshould have been smarter than to follow the herd and that the "lunatic lurching" of Apple's stock is, at this point, more a source of entertainment than anything. James Stewart, of the New York Times,bemoaned Wall Street's inabilityto predict a company's future prospects. Bethany McLean, of Reuters, argued thatApple was overpriced in the first placeand really should be worth no more than $200 a share. Many others have said that Apple's stock was so astronomically high that, like Icarus, it would have to crash.The problem is that Apple's stock has not experienced a "lunatic lurching" at all; it has trended steadily downwards over months. That's a clear sign that investors are losing faith; if any other stock were to fall by one-third in such a short time, it would rightfully set off alarm bells. It is even more true with Apple, which was a paragon. Why do our idols fall? That is why everyone is obsessed with Apple.Salmon is mistaken that Apple's stock price woes are, in his words, "based on nothing"; in fact, they are directly traceable, very crisply and clearly, to the introduction of Apple Maps. Stock prices do mean something; they are kind of an evaluation from the market of a company's prospects. And stock charts show, clearly, the exact dates when companies screw up.This stock chart, from Google Finance, shows that Apple stock started to decline on Sept. 21, 2012: the same day Apple Maps was introduced. Apple Maps was a notable fiasco, in which the executive in charge, Scott Forstall, was eventually ousted for refusing to apologize.You could argue, very plausibly, that losing $227 on each share was a heavy price for Apple to pay for the map fiasco. It wasn't, however, just the problem of bad software itself, but that Apple showed itself for the first time capable of complete incompetence, which no one thought it capable of before.It also showed it was bullying its users, who were not allowed to delete the app and replace it with the more functional Google Maps. That shook the faith of consumers and investors. Apple, rather than being a company anointed, rather than raining benedictions on its users, was acting like bumbling, giant Microsoft, dressing its users in hairshirts. The result was that Apple became a laughing stock.This is unlike Apple, and it's why the company has had to try so hard as it did, trotting Cook out on Tuesday. Howard Lindzon, the founder of the StockTwits network of investors on social media,tweeted: "I cringe at the whole idea of this forced $AAPL conference. Just a black eye in general." There was a time, he implied, when Apple did not have to justify itself to investors. Steve Jobs, as another tweeter noted, would not have done it.David Einhorn says Apple needs to do more to unlock value for shareholders. Photograph: Eduardo Munoz/ReutersSo Apple has stumbled. Every company does. The Bible teaches that the proper response to a fall from grace is an open display of humility, and the stock market teaches the same, through a much harsher lesson. Henry Kravis, a billionaire who founded the giant takeover firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co.,has a piece of wisdomhe likes to share about finance: "Arrogance kills."Unfortunately, humility is not Apple's strength right now. It is responding with hubris. It is not addressing the concerns of a major shareholder, Einhorn, who for the time being is very friendly to both Apple and Cook. Einhorn launched a campaign to get Apple to use its cash to pay shareholders a high-dividend type of stock. He criticized cash-hoarding Apple for its "Depression-era mentality" like "someone who's gone through traumas … they sometimes feel they can never have enough cash".To be clear: Einhorn's actual campaign is irrelevant. What matters is how the company responds to it. There is only one appropriate response to a major shareholder with far-reaching power: respect. Apple's stock price is not getting hit because it is suddenly misunderstood. It is not suffering because it is an artistic haven of perfectionist product geniuses that are too good for capitalism. It is a company that has suffered some hits to its image and needs to show that those are not permanent.Yet Cook's response was high-handed toward Einhorn. While he said he will "thoroughly evaluate" Einhorn's suggestion, he dismissed and mocked Einhorn's pending lawsuit.  "It's a silly sideshow," Cook said, twice. He suggested, to laughs: "You're not going to see us do a campaign mailing, you're not going to see a Yes on 2 sign in my yard. This is a waste of shareholder money, a distraction." He reacted, in short, with arrogance and hubris and the confidence of a man on top.This is a mistake. Einhorn has an enormous amount of power on Wall Street. His nice-guy exterior masks a barely docked menace when it comes to his convictions. Richard Fuld at Lehman Brothers also dismissed Einhorn, to his detriment, and Green Mountain Coffee has been fighting a battle with him for nearly a year that has hit its stock price.As Eric Jackson, a hedge-fund manager and Apple shareholder, put it in a piece this week, Apple has already given itself a black eye by attracting Einhorn's attention. "What I want to focus on is how Peter Oppenheimer – Apple's CFO – could have let this get this far,"Jackson wrote. "Whatever Oppenheimer did behind the scenes before Einhorn went public with his complaints, it was a total bust. And he should be held accountable for that failure by Tim Cook and the rest of Apple's board."Cook doesn't have that leverage any more, to wave his hands benignly over the masses and declare them blessed by Apple's very presence. Apple, like any religion in contemporary times, has to prove why it's still worth the faith that people put in it. Investors – even the faithful – have become that much wiser to false idols.
Ooh, it's Wednesday day. How are you all?
Thousands of people in the UK are using "GPS jammers" that plug into car cigarette lighters and can stop tracking systems used to detect stolen cars, monitor vehicle use or stop drivers working overlong hours, according to new findings from experts.That could lead to the danger of overtired lorry drivers staying on the roads despite the presence of monitoring equipment, and could also pose a threat if vehicles equipped with the jammers were to go on to airport areas near aircraft which rely on GPS (global positioning system) for navigation.Yet despite the risks posed by the devices – which are sold over the internet – it is not illegal to import, sell, buy or possess them. It is an offence only under the Wireless Telegraphy Act to "knowingly use" such a device to block GPS signals – though the communications regulator Ofcom is looking to close some of the loopholes.The growing use of the devices could also torpedo any plans to introduce "pay as you drive" insurance or road toll systems if the vehicle owner was able to block communications with monitoring systems."When people use these, it creates a bubble around their vehicle for about 500 metres that jams any GPS receiver or transmitter," Prof Charles Curry of Chronos Technology told the Guardian. "It stops any tracking system the owner might have put on the car. Usually they will block GSM [mobile phone] signals too that might also be used to send back a location."It means that for anyone trying to track the vehicle, it just vanishes off the map – it's as though it were in an underground car park," Curry added.Police have already seized one jammer that was being used by a van driver following tests by the team, who have built a system that can detect the disruption caused by the jammers.Bob Cockshott, of the ICT Knowledge Transfer Network, said: "People are using these because they don't want to be detected. It's very easy to drown out the signal from a GPS satellite – which at ground level puts out as much power as a 20-watt lightbulb 12,000 miles away."When engineers began monitoring traffic on a dual carriageway outside London, and compared it with traffic on roads inside the City of London, they discovered regular use of jammers, with 10 incidents per day by some roads. That would translate to thousands of users around the country, given the amount of traffic on the road."It may be truck drivers making deliveries outside hours, or taxi drivers who are working for a company and want to keep all the payments for themselves rather than splitting it with the cab owner," said Curry.But Curry and Cockshott said that the use of jammers carried broader risks, not just from overtired drivers. "They could affect aircraft navigation systems, and for drivers in the immediate area they could mess up their GPS reception because these wipe out those signals," said Curry.In fact one online review of a jammer by a user included the complaint that their GPS didn't work when it was active.However the availability of such jammers pales in comparison to the Russian-built ones deployed by North Korea, which are reputedly able to affect systems as much as 100km away – and which wereused in May 2012 to scramble GPS signalsnear two of South Korea's major airports.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft has lost its audacity, former top exec says &gt;&gt; ReadWrite[Joachim] Kempin is hardcore, old-school Microsoft. His book is a kind of lament for the company, which he says has become listless, bureaucratic and afraid to compete. He has harsh words for CEO Steve Ballmer and even for Microsoft founder Bill Gates, writing that Gates "miserably failed in guiding the company through the Internet and social network revolution," and that "perhaps the company would have been better off if Bill would have left earlier rather than tangentially spending his time saving his legacy and subsequently missing waves of opportunities!"Recently I interviewed Kempin. Here are some highlights from our conversation.Punches: not pulled.Samsung's David Eun: ongoing Apple v. Samsung litigation 'a loss' for innovation &gt;&gt; EngadgetBreaking from discussions on Eun's view of Samsung as a content company, Swisher asked Eun quite pointedly about its relationship with Apple. Eun chuckled a bit, making quite clear that he himself was not the whole of Samsung. While Eun wouldn't comment on the specifics of the ongoing litigation, he did note that as a evangelist of Silicon Valley and a consumer of technology, he views the deadlock as "a loss."It was actually a pretty candid response, and it was clear from his body language that he truly is less than thrilled that the legal struggles are ongoing. As Eun noted, Samsung makes money each time an iPhone is sold, yet the two companies are indeed competitors on some levels.(Thanks @sputnikkers for the link.)The Secret Door - Step Through To The Unknown… &gt;&gt; Safestyle UKNeat: rather like the doors in Monsters Inc, each one takes you to somewhere quite random in the world (via Google's indoor view).Random Youtube Video GeneratorDoes what it says on the tin.Guardian-style comment generator &gt;&gt; Tom ForthStuck for a comment to make on the Guardian website?No problem. Just try one of these random comments and you'll be sure to impress the self‑proclaimed who's who of the left‑wing internet intelligentsia.No comment.Apple Maps blamed for inaccuracies in CFA FireReady Bushfire app &gt;&gt; Sydney Morning Herald;The Country Fire Authority in Victoria has blamed Apple for reportedly dangerous deficiencies in the maps on its FireReady bushfire information app for iPhone and iPad.The FireReady app was forced to use Apple Maps, CFA said, but the maps were inaccurate and "Macedon and a number of other Victorian towns are located incorrectly".This makes it very difficult to quickly determine the exact location of fires once alarm calls are being received."Users report that towns are located on their maps at the centre of the district rather than on the actual township itself," a CFA spokesman said.The exact same problem - misreading the district's geocentre as the town name - that caused the previous Australian Apple Maps screwup. You'd have thought someone at Apple might have worked through the Australian Gazetteer with a regex and fixed that by now. (Thanks @mopoke on Twitter for the link.)Yours vs. Mine &gt;&gt; Dustin CurtisA question that inevitably comes up very early in the process of designing a new app is this: should the interface refer to the user as "your" or "my" when talking about the user's stuff, like in "my profile" or "your settings"? For a long time, this question ate at my soul. Which is right?Well?Home Depot abandoning BlackBerry platform in favour of Apple's iPhone and iOS &gt;&gt; AppleInsiderPeople familiar with the big-box retailer's plans said the company has already begun the process of abandoning the Blackberry platform for Apple's iOS, specifically for store managers and all corporate level employees.A representative for the home improvement chain confirmed the news to AppleInsider, saying the move will displace roughly 10,000 Blackberry smartphones.…The initiative will not yet impact the approximately 60,000 rugged Motorola smartphones (34,000+ so-called "First Phones" and 25,000+ "First Phone Jrs") used by store employees. Those devices will remain in operation on retail store floors for mobile point-of-sale, analytical, walkie-talkie, and traditional telephony purposes.Subsequently checked and confirmed by Reuters. Home Depot (the world's fifth largest retailer by revenue) wouldn't say if this move preceded or postdated the release of BB10 - though the former seems likely.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Two branches of the US government are introducing cybersecurity legislation on Wednesday but hackers, the very people the government is trying to protect the internet from, have serious doubts about the government's ability to legislate technology.President Barack Obama is expected to mention an executive order on cybersecurity in Tuesday's state of the union, with details on the order to be released Wednesday morning. That same day, congressman Mike Rogers will reintroduceCispa, the cybersecurity billthat allows private companies to share information about cyberthreats with the government.Cispa was much maligned by critics, and Obama said he would veto it if it was passed. The bill made it through the House in the 112th Congress and faltered in the Senate. Open-internet advocates say the bill threatens the privacy of citizens and provides the government and private companies overreaching access to people's information.Washington insiders expect Obama's executive order to produce information sharing provisions and an outline of cybersecurity standards for critical infrastructure and industries. Some of those on the hacking scene, however, are gearing up for what they see as another convoluted attempt at introducing harsh measures to control something they don't quite understand.Leon Kaiser, of the unfortunately named hacking collective Gay Niggers' Association of America,which hacked Tumblr in December, said that anytime the US government attempts to craft cybersecurity legislation, it ends "in a train wreck"."The closest thing to 'cybersecurity' the old men in congress can even wrap their heads around amounts to 'listen to all communications with no regard to privacy,'" Kaiser said in an email. "It's taking a shotgun approach to security, and in the process, shooting the constitution."The Anonymous collective threatened to shut down the online stream of the state of the union on Tuesday afternoon because of the reintroduction of Cispa."This action is being taken to underline a fact that appears to be sorely unrecognized by the Obama Administration — that the Internet is a sovereign territory, and does not fall under the jurisdiction of any nation state,"the collective said in a statement.Sebastianowl, an anonymous member of Anonymous, said in an email that many in the hacking scene feel that there needs to be "less laws, that are clearer and more fair.""Sentencing for any kind of computer related crimes also needs to be brought into line with reality and the bounds of justice, companies tend to inflate their estimates of damages and juries hear 'millions of dollars in damages' and rush to throw the book at someone for exploiting ridiculously lax security and changing a webpage."Sebastianowl pointed specifically to the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, which was initially created in 1984, as an example of what he believes is the government's habit of crafting legislation that allows for unnecessarily harsh prosecution of offenders.The act has been updated several times since it was first introduced, but was subject to harsh criticism after open-internet advocate Aaron Swartz killed himself on January 11. Swartz was being threatened with more than 30 years in jail and up to $4m in fines for violating the act by downloading material from the JSTOR article archive.He also mentioned the case ofAndrew "Weev" Aurenheimerwho, like Swartz was, is being threatened with a lengthy prison sentence for sharing information acquired illegally.Hacktivist supporters say the persecution is harsh compared to the acts, especially because many of these hackers see their work as acts of political activism, not malicious crimes."Companies themselves need to be made to take a much greater responsibility for leaving systems containing their own, or their customers, sensitive data unpatched and insecure, sometimes years after vulnerabilities in the technology they are using have been widely publicized," sebastianowl said.Critics frequently say that technology legislation it flawed because the government can't keep up with a rapidly advancing industry.Amy Mushahwar, counsel at Ballard Spahr LLC, has worked in the technology industry for more than 15 years and is familiar with the Washington cybersecurity debates. She told the Guardian that "the standards are very old, very mature, but constantly being updated".With the president announcing the order the same day Cispa is reintroduced, Mushahwar expects there will be gaps in what Obama can address with the executive order because of the dynamic with Cispa."Likely, the cybersecurity order will be solely focused towards critical infrastructure and critical industries, so that leaves a wide-swath of companies – general retail, hospitality – that are not addressed," Mushahwar said.She added that companies can be bogged under conflicting cybersecurity standards which can inhibit a companies ability to participate in higher level security discussions and analysis. "Good security isn't compliance; good security is creative," she said.
Apple chief executive Tim Cook hinted that the company could build a cheaper mobile phone that would "not necessarily [be] a cheaper version of the current iPhone", and called a shareholder lawsuit over the company's giant cash pile a "silly sideshow" at the Goldman Sachs conference on Tuesday.With pressure from pundits mounting on Apple to produce a phone with a 5in screen, like Samsung's Galaxy Note, he also suggested that larger displays weren't necessarily better, and that OLED displays (as used by South Korean rival Samsung) have "awful" colour saturation: "I'm not going to comment on what we're going to do in the future, but it's always broader than that which can be defined by a simple number," he said.He also said that Apple has paid out $8bn to developers from the App Store - a new figure that implies that Apple has taken in $11.4bn since opening the store in 2008. That isdouble the $4bn figure paid out by January 2012, and up $1bn in a month, suggesting rapid growth in payments by users.With the physical stores, Apple will close 20 "and moving them and making them larger", and adding another 30, with plans to add "lots more" in Greater China.He said that 40% of all iOS device sales happened in 2012 - but that there was still huge potential to sell more: "the iPhone is really only available to about half of the subscribers in the world, so there is tons of opportunity to expand that."Speaking to a packed room in the Palace Hotel in San Francisco at a 7am start, Cook hit back at accusations made by Greenlight Investment over its hoarding of cash, saying that the company "doesn't have a Depression-era mentality. Apple makes bold and ambitious bets on product and we're conservative financially".Shareholder pressureDavid Eindhorn at Greenlight has been trying to persuade Cook to give back some of its accumulated $100bn in cash, and is opposing a plan by Apple's board to create a new class of shares - which Eindhorn complains would make it more difficult to redistribute that cash mountain to shareholders.Cook said Apple won't spend money contacting shareholders to lobby for votes in favour of the proposal. "My preference is that everyone on both sides of this issue would take the money they're spending on this and donating it to a worthy cause," he said.On Apple's plans for the iPhone, and for future products, Cook was - as Steve Jobs used to be before him - evasive. The smartphone market still had huge room for growth, he said: "When I zoom out and look at the smartphone market in particular, what I see is a market that is projected to double in the next few years. This is a huge market. On a longer-term basis, all phones will be smartphones and there's a lot more people in the world than 1.4 billion [the estimated current total number of smartphone users], and people love to upgrade their phones very regularly."But he did acknowledge that the existing iPhone range is out of reach for almost all pay-as-you-go (prepay) customers. "We wouldn't do anything we wouldn't consider a great product," he said. "There are other companies that do that, and that's just not who we are. That said, if you look at what we've done to appeal to people who are more price-sensitive, we lowered the price for the iPhone 4 and iPhone 4S - and in the December quarter [of 2012] we didn't have enough supply of [the] iPhone 4." He said Apple had been "surprised" by the level of demand for the latter in that period.Something different?He then hinted that Apple might create a quite different product, saying: "We are making moves to make things more affordable. When we came out with the iPod, it was $399. Today you can buy an iPod shuffle [which has no screen and half the storage of the original iPod] for $49. Instead of saying 'how can we cheapen this iPod to get it lower', we said 'how can we do a great product', and we were able to do that. The same thing, but in a different concept in some ways."Similarly in looking at building a sub-$1,000 iMac - as in 2008 when Apple was being urged to offer a notebook - "we concluded we couldn't do a great product, but we did do - we invented [the] iPad. Now all of a sudden we have an incredible experience and it starts at $329."He suggested that people were getting too distracted by specifications rather than the user experience, pointing to how the PC industry had become obsesses with "the largest drive and fastest processor", and camera companies by megapixels, when "customers want that 'a-ha' moment, and that's rarely a function of any of those things."He challenged people on the difference between specification and experience: "do you know the speed of an AX processor? You probably don't. You want a fantastic experience."500 million in useHe said Apple now had 500 million iOS devices in use, of which 40% were sold last year. He also pointed to China as a source of huge growth - with Apple having gone from "a few hundred million in revenue in one year to $3bn in the next to $13bn the next - we're adding over $10bn every year."The tablet market, he said, "will be huge, it will be a huge opportunity for Apple", and pointed to the company's sales of 23m tablets in the previous quarter - compared to the 15m PCs sold by HP, the world's biggest PC maker. "There has been a sea change. We're in the early innings of this game. The projection is that this is going to triple in four years - that's 375 million, more than the number of PCs being sold around the world. The tablet is attracting people who have never owned a PC, and people who have owned [PCs] but it wasn't great in the experience."To the figures reported by analysts showing Apple's market share dipping below 50% in the fourth quarter, he retorted: "I have no idea what the market share is. We're the only company that really reports the units we sell." By comparison none of Samsung, Amazon, Barnes &amp; Noble or other companies making tablets reports official quarterly shipment or sales figures.Expanding baseApple was still expanding its user base, with 50% of iPad buyers in China and Brazil buying their first Apple product - which was linked to future purchases of Apple products, he said.He insisted that Apple's innovation was at its "strongest ever" and "in the DNA of the company" and that "the decisions we make are for Apple's long-term health. Not the short-term 90-day clock [of the financial quarter]."He also pointed to Apple having skills in three key areas: software, hardware and services. "The model of the PC industry [where separate companies specialise in each of those three areas], that model's not working for what consumers want today. Consumers want an elegant experience where the technology flows to the background. The real magic happens at the intersection of these." He praised the skills of his "executive team table" of design chief Sir Jonathan Ive, hardware chief Bob Mansfield, supply chain chief Jeff Williams and others.Asked whether Apple's culture militates against large acquisitions - which could be another use for the cash pile - Cook said that "we have looked at large companies. In each case, it didn't pass our test… we want to make great products. If a large company could help us, then that would be of interest." Instead, Apple buys companies for its "really smart" staff, or its intellectual property: "we've averaged about an acquisition every other month" for the past three years."Transcript of the talkcourtesy of the Wall Street Journal.
Your report (Defence giant builds 'Google for spies' to track social networking users, 11 February) describes a new product to collect and mine user data online. You quote aRaytheonemail saying this is possible "without any personally identifiable information being disclosed". But what data constitutes personally identifiable information? PII is a predetermined list of attributes that could identify an individual. But asthe excellent Wikipedia entrysays, it is not clear what information alone or in combination is not personally identifying.As citizens we need therefore to lobby for a change from the use of PII in legislation, in favour of a more dynamic notion of identifying data. Identifiably personal information (IPI, if you must) is any set of data which by inspection could lead to the identification of an individual from a group, with a given level of confidence in a given time. This is likely to be a much broader set of data than that which is currently referred to as PII. This approach can be implemented with existing technology and is based on solid academic work on differential privacy and security threat modelling. Without this revision the application of analytics to "big data" (for which read "your data"), whether to benefit society or to boost profits, could turn data science into data surveillance.John TaysomSenior ALI fellow, Harvard University• Recent stories on data mining from social media sites have led to some hysterical commentary. Data mining by many businesses seeks to predict trends in purchasing behaviour, monitor customer response to service delivery and assess their marketing strategy against those of their rivals. But the use of large-scale data in this way is not new.Mass Observation, founded in 1937, comprised a small army of volunteers who recorded their own activities and the views of those around them to assess the mood of the nation following the abdication of Edward VIII, in the second world war, and after.The real power of social media mining is establishing a "pattern of life" from which anomalies might stand out, whether an emerging disease outbreak, discontent with local policing methods, or broad approval for the latest design of smartphone. For the investigation of individual behaviour, anomaly detection is generally not sufficient unless matched to other evidence gained through more conventional methods. The hyper connectivity of a large proportion of the world's population is almost regarded as a right and, whether they like it or not, it gives widespread public access to their thoughts and actions. The recent Foresight report onFuture Identities(Government Office for Science, January 2013) concluded that increasing connectivity will be important to understand the changing nature of identity. It notes the opportunities to strengthen social integration, reduce exclusion, enhance open and agile policymaking and make effective use of identities as a resource.Professor Chris HankinDirector, Institute for Security Science and Technology, Imperial College London• Threats to cyber-security (Report, 11 February) are made worse by a lack of suitable professionals. We have been working with the Cabinet Office to ensure we have a better mix of skills for the future by building software engineering best practice into undergraduate university degrees and encouraging more students to undertake postgraduate study of cyber-security.Hugh BoyesInstitution of Engineering and Technology
Twitter and American Express say they are working on a "pay by tweet" system that would let accredited users pay for real or virtual items via the microblogging service.That could also generate an extra lucrative source of revenue for Twitter, which has recently hiked prices on its "promoted trend" service as it looks towards a potential flotation in 2014.According to the Wall Street Journal, the new service with Amex would let people who link their cards to their Twitter accounts buy products simply by tweeting in response to special offers made over the service.That could generate a chunk of payments for Twitter if it takes a slice of those purchases. But the service, withmore than 200 million users worldwide, is also beginning to ratchet up prices for reaching users: last week it raised the price of a "promoted trend" – visible to many users as they look to see what topics are generating the most interest – to$200,000 per day.Twitter generated an estimated $350m in revenues in 2012, and its growth and increasing interest among advertisers seeking to place promoted tweets and trends could double that in 2013.American Express is creating similar card connection systems to work with Facebook, Microsoft's Xbox Live service and the location-based service FourSquare. "Hundreds of thousands" of people have connected their cards to those services, it said: in those, a card could be used to buy virtual goods through Facebook apps, or games and films on the Xbox Live service.
See those four stars above this review? I fully expect to receive a right royal kicking in the comment section below this article for that rating. The reason being is that, if one were so inclined, one could point to several imperfections in Sega's new shooter as evidence that it deserves a lower score – not the least of which is the legacy of the film this game purports to be a sequel to, and which is a millstone around its neck.The fact is, Alien Colonial Marines doesn't stand a chance if you compare it to James Cameron's seminal 1986 flick. Aliens is filed and receipted as one of the greatest horror films ever made, one of the best sequels ever made and an iconic entry in the canon of science-fiction cinema. Aliens Colonial Marines is a patchy shooter standing on the shoulders of a giant.But here's the thing; if we take it as read that this review is simply a lengthy opinion proffered by a thundering nerd, all the score rating rests on is whether or not the person writing consistently enjoyed the game they were covering – and on that scale, Aliens Colonial Marines is a success. It actually feels like a product out of time; one of those scrappy FPS games mid-tier publishers could boot out between Triple-A titles back in the day, when Metacritic didn't exist and a studio wasn't shut down if the game they made failed to sell a bajillion copies.Picture imperfectFirst, the bad news: Aliens Colonial Marines could have done with a massive visual polish. While environments evoke the universe in the James Cameron film and are beautifully lit, they suffer on closer inspection. Textures look blotchy close up and positively last-gen in some instances.Similarly, the character models don't look great. When the player is charging through a heated gun battle or fending off snarling beasts in dank corridors, they may notice jerky movements or poor running animations in their human compatriots. Some cut-scenes look horrible; in some instances, contour lines and facial details pop in an out and break the spell of the story completely.The xenomorphs, for their part, look convincing and their animations are well rendered – provided they're on all fours. When they stand erect on two feet, they have a tendency to bob towards the camera with their arms outstretched as though they're about to give the player a hug. Admittedly, these visuals ticks and glitches are more pronounced on the console version that I played than on the PC version. If you have a high-end PC, the odd texture looks lousy, but the characters look decent and there are fewer instances of alien 'jazz hands'.Visual issues aside, however, Aliens Colonial Marines has an awful lot going for it. The developers have absolutely nailed the look and feel of the James Cameron film; each environment – be it aboard the deserted Sulaco space cruiser or the dilapidated colony Hadley's Hope on the rain-and-windswept LV-426 – could slot comfortably into the Aliens universe.Gearbox also uses rather effective lighting and a fairly worthy musical score to create exactly the right mood for every set-piece they toss at the player. Even better, they vary the level design significantly to make use of the game's choking atmosphere and prevent everything from becoming one-note. In one tense, white-knuckled moment, for example, the player has to make their way, unarmed, through some sewers without disturbing any hibernating xenomorphs, while in the next, they're frantically setting up a perimeter of remote turrets to turn a loading bay into a turkey shoot before a ton of slavering aliens come crashing down from the ceiling.The weapons all feel weighty and they're sonically on the money. The standard issue pulse rifle sounds exactly the way it did in the film and it's an absolute blast to use it to riddle xenomorphs with bullets – even if its undercarriage grenade launcher feels a little underpowered.Over the eight or so hours in the campaign, players will get their hands on several pieces of the film's iconic weaponry including flamethrowers and – best of all – the smartgun, which allows them to tear apart multiple targets by dotting a reticule around the HUD.The campaign's plot is also one of the better stories I've seen in a shooter in a while. In it, the player takes on the role of a marine called Winter who is part of a military operation to find out what became of the soldiers who accompanied Ripley to LV-426 on the Sulaco. Once aboard, they quickly find themselves trapped on the ship with a pack of aliens. They also discover that the shady corporation who financed the mission – Weyland Yutani – has been tinkering about with xenomorphs and would rather no one back home on earth found out about this.The plot's also populated by characters who are a cut above the usual one-note testosterone-fuelled types one tends to find in games featuring soldiers these days. Yes, there's a certain amount of macho posturing at the start, but it's interesting to see how quickly that descends into terrified panic and cowardly self-preservation once the aliens pitch up. There are also a couple of tragic notes that players can pre-empt if they're familiar with how the xenomorph birthing process works.Every enemy the player kills in the campaign earns them XP, which feeds into a "marine" profile they take into the online mode once they've blitzed the single-player. They also earn XP for picking up dogtags, audiologs and legendary weapons – such as Hicks's shotgun or Vasquez's smartgun – they'll find hidden about the different levels. They can then spend the XP on weapons augmentations such as reduced kickback for machine pistols or firebomb grenades for the pulse rifle.Online … oh myThis means that by the time they're ready for the online mode, their marine profile will be rather seriously tooled up, which is useful, because multiplayer initially favours the players who control the aliens. For a start, their HUD are in infrared, enabling them to see into every nook and corner of the map, which appears shrouded in shadow to the players controlling the humans. Second, the aliens' vision seems to be based on sonar, meaning they can see their opponents through walls, floors and ceilings. Finally, the aliens are able to climb on any surface, enabling them to come at opponents from pretty much any angle.What this all means is that the players controlling the aliens have a lot more freedom in how they tackle their opponents and, unless they're battling experienced opposition, teamwork is optional.The marines, however, are on the back foot unless they work together. Controlling the marines is very similar, tactically speaking, to playing a quick round of Left 4 Dead; success hinges on watching each other's backs and lone wolves shouldn't even bother joining a game (unless they're actively looking for people to annoy).The maps and match-types compliment this asymmetrical style of play. The maps themselves put the players at close-quarters and apart from Team Deathmatch, the multiplayer's match types require the players controlling the marines to complete mini-goals, whereas the alien players are always simply tasked with wiping out their opponents.The objective-based gameplay keeps the tempo moving and forces players to be creative; marines are advised to bottle-neck any well-lit areas and keep one eye on their motion sensors, while xenomorphs should feel free to make use of the map's infrastructure – including the air vents.Both sides have special weapons that spawn somewhere in the map; alien players can climb into the husk of an acid spraying boiler or armour-plated crusher while marines who brave the odd darkened corridor can be rewarded with a smartgun or sentry turrets. Both sides also gain XP for kills and objective-based gameplay, which they can use to unlock further weapon augmentations (for the marines), new attacks (for the xenomorphs) and visual customisation options.Playing as the marines is a hair-raising experience; players will invariably fall into a pattern of anxiously checking darkly-lit corners as the motion sensor's pinging sound ratchets up the tension.Siding with the aliens is far more fun; believe me when I tell you there are fewer things in gaming more satisfying than creeping above a frantic marine and biting a hole through their face just in the instant they turn in your direction. It never gets old.That's the game's trump card in a way: Aliens Colonial Marines continues to be enjoyable for hours on end. It plays so differently to other online fragfests that it constantly feels innovative and fresh.It's not perfect and its visual issues hold it back from unqualified greatness, but Aliens Colonial Marines is consistently fun to play throughout. It's also the first game in ages to elicit a cry of genuine shock from yours truly the first time a face-hugger came surging towards the screen …• Game reviewed on PC and Xbox 360
