TV capture quibblesI have had the same problem with Hauppauge software and Pinnacle TV card software as Wendy M Grossman (Technobile, September 7). If you want a better TV card software try DigiTV. The card is a little more expensive (circa &pound;90) but the software works most of the time. Unlike the larger companies, there is also evidence that DigiTV is at least continuing to develop its software and does respond to email support calls.David BeaneyNorthwood&middot;At the risk of putting Wendy M Grossman's technology therapy back 15 years, may I suggest that instead of the "two perfectly good, willing, and able PCs eager to do the job" of recording the tennis she just buys herself a TV and video recorder? In fact, scrub that - if her implication that she has only gone out once in three years is correct, may I suggest that she just buys herself a life?James ShepherdLondon&middot;I have a Mac PowerBook and this year (February I think) installed EyeTV and my hard disk crashed shortly afterwards - irrevocably! So I replaced the hard drive. In June I had another go with Eye TV - hard drive crashed (irrevocably). Elgato (EyeTV) assure me this has nothing to do with their software and can see no reason why this should happen. Have replaced hard drive again. Anyone want to buy an Elgato Eye TV system - as new - only used twice?David Graeme-BakerLondon&middot;If Wendy M Grossman wants a TV capture card that works, she should get one from Nebula Electronics. I bought a Nebula card for my main PC - it installed and tuned in seconds, the scheduler was easy to use, as stable as a rock and did exactly what it said on the tin. In contrast, I bought a cheaper Hauppauge card to install on my wife's PC. It took three hours to get XP to recognise the card and several attempts were required to install the software, after which it crashed the PC. I replaced it with my Nebula card, and had it up and running in minutes with no problems at all. A call to Hauppauge technical support resulted in them suggesting a host of BIOS tweaks as "my PC was obviously at fault". I explained how I had swapped out the Hauppauge card for a Nebula which worked fine. After a silence lasting several seconds, Hauppauge gave me a code to claim a full refund. Needless to say, the wife is now another happy Nebula user. At the end of the day you get what you pay for.Andy FarringtonKentWiner's a winnerThanks for the great piece about the news rivers (Dip your mobile into the fast-flowing river of news, September 7).Dave WinerBerkeley, California&#183;Dave Winer is brilliant! He has a winning way, not because of his stellar personality or because of his movie star good looks, but because, unlike soooo many of his contemporaries in the tech world, he understands the concept of "simple".keithwj.typepad.comQuality control (cont'd)Rick Gibson (Letters and blogs, September 7) must accept that there are readers who are not just interested in games, or computers for their own sake. For the likes of me the Free our Data campaign is critical and has to be an ongoing issue. I for one have spent the better part of a generation fighting government to free up information. Information about life-critical data, and how developing technology changes the way we can use it, is surely more important than games and new toys. There's surely a raft of magazines that fulfill that role. So Guardian, keep up campaigning, keep informing us about the fight to free data, and report on aspects of technological change from a perspective that is not inclusive to computer technos!Terry JamesCarmarthen&middot;I must endorse the comments of Rick Gibson and in particular the comment about the newly asked questions section. I've been reading the Guardian for over 40 years and used to read the IT/ Science section first. Now I barely glance at it. The David Rees comic strip. What is that about? Is it supposed to be funny? Bring back the IT/Science section. Please.Joseph McKennaGlasgow
The information revolution made it easier to work from home, but a new kind of person is now emerging who spurns both the office and the home in order to work on the move in a library, a hotel, a Starbucks with a wireless link, an internet cafe, or a park bench. This has been expedited by the spread of broadband and the popularity of wireless links to the web rather than fixed connections. Having recently become a digital nomad after decades of working in an office, I have been trying to find the most appropriate kit.For most businessmen, the answer is simply a wireless or 3G card attached to their laptop - so that, for a monthly subscription, they can send emails or access the web from wherever they are. The trouble is that most laptops are still too heavy to carry around all day. But they are getting lighter.I recently tried one of Sony's VAIO range - the powerful SZ2 - and was impressed by its facilities, including a very thin 13.3in screen, Wi-Fi, and DVD all packed into a thin case weighing just under 1.7kg (compared with a bit over 2kg for my Apple laptop with 12in screen). It picked up my home Wi-Fi first time and had a good keyboard, with keys well spaced and an effective touch mouse. It worked well, except that it was a bit heavy to be carrying around town all day - especially as the lid seemed vulnerably thin.Fortunately, there are even lighter ones in the VAIO series that seem perfect for a nomadic life, such as the TX2 HP, which weighs only 1.2kg with more than seven hours of battery life.Others swear by the Lenovo ThinkPad series, which also has models as light as 1.2kg complete with Wi-Fi. While laptops are shrinking in size in search of new marketing opportunities, phones are becoming more ambitious.I have a Nokia pocket keyboard that works with some of Nokia's newer phones such as the N80, enabling it to mimic the features of a laptop. It opens up into a fair sized keyboard, with a popup holder for the phone. It communicates with the phone via a Bluetooth (wireless) connection which worked first time writing an email, taking notes or texting.If you use a phone with a bigger screen - such as the Nokia e61 - then it is possible to write longer pieces.If you want to do research on the internet on the move, then phones can be inhibiting because of their small screens and often moody GPRS web access.One of the best is still the BlackBerry. The standard 7290 flat model still has the easiest email functions and is also one of the best for access to web sites such as Yahoo and Flickr.The veteran Nokia Communicator is still very popular with businessmen, and its wide screen and tolerable keyboard make it one of the best compromises between size and functionality. The biggest barriers to working on the move are not the devices but the lack of affordable Wi-Fi, coupled with a shambolic pricing policy.No one seems to be planning networks on the scale they are in parts of America. Some enterprising areas, such as Norwich, are making free Wi-Fi available to all but - would you believe it - not at high speeds, in case commercial companies start complaining. My local authority (Westminster) has been ahead of the game in installing it in public places such as libraries, but at &pound;6 an hour there are few takers.A hotel I was in at the weekend was also charging &pound;6 an hour, which will deter all but the businessperson on expenses. There have been rumours that some local authorities might form a consortium to bid for a spectrum in one of the upcoming auctions so they can offer it free for everyone.If they or anyone else were do to this, it would have a dramatic effect on usage and could be the catalyst needed to make mobile working commonplace.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Surely I was not alone last week in spotting the parallels between the collapsing Tony Blair premiership and Sony's PS3 delay. Both Sony and Tony have dominated their fields for a decade - mostly by appealing to the wider public without obsessing over the approval of the hardcore. Yet both have got themselves into tricky situations - Blair via Iraq, Sony via Blu-ray - and the public is turning on them. Regime change may be imminent.So videogame pundits and blogging fanboys are gathering at the gallows, rubbing their hands together with unsuccessfully disguised glee. But a videogame industry with a fatally compromised Sony would be a disaster. The company's competitors - Nintendo and Microsoft - are brilliant in their niches, but don't engage across multiple demographics. If Nintendo, for example, had overseen Grand Theft Auto, the series would have taken place in a fairy tale city, with Mario as the loveable gangster protagonist, skipping through the streets, jumping on naughty turtles. Mario will never, ever, under any circumstances, exclaim, in that phoney Italian accent of his, "It's-a-me, Mario, I'm-a-gonna put a cap uppa ya ass".Meanwhile, Sony's Singstar series is a joyous ode to karaoke culture. Imagine it created on Xbox, with its target audience of goth American teens: the games would involve dark elves singing thrash metal songs. Microsoft doesn't really do cool - it doesn't do pop music or kitsch or fashion. Sony does. Xbox 360 will soon get its own gaming camera which, I imagine, will be used for serious-minded gesture-recognition, allowing you to, say, look round corners in Halo 4 using head movements rather than strafe controls. I can't imagine an Xbox take on PS2's EyeToy Play - daft little mini-games where you wave your arms around like a demented monkey. Microsoft doesn't do demented monkeys. (Sit down, Mr Ballmer.)And what was Sony's big mistake? Delaying a videogame console? Pah, everyone does that. Dreamcast was delayed in Europe, N64 was delayed everywhere, Xbox 360 was so short of units for its "global" launch, most territories had to wait months for a reliable supply. Delay is part of the fabric of the industry. This has to do with longevity. PlayStation has been at the top so long, people are almost willing it to collapse.Sony, unlike Tony, will survive. Most analysts agree the PlayStation brand will dominate once again. It has big series like Gran Turismo, Metal Gear Solid and Final Fantasy; it has the unconditional support of publishing giants like EA. Most of all, it has no clearcut usurper, no Machiavellian malcontent waiting in the wings. Face it: there is no Gordon Brown of videogames.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Pearl of a phoneRIM plans to ship the small BlackBerry Pearl 8100 - a multimedia smartphone with built-in 1.3 megapixel camera - in Europe from next month.www.BlackBerryPearl.comTried Tri-call?Tri-call software runs on Java-based mobile phones and allows users to make VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) calls, for a fee, from their mobiles. There are also PC and web-based versions.www.tri-call.comA nation surfsA survey of British adults reveals that 71% of us have access to a computer (64% have access at home and 23% at work) and 63% have access to the net.tinyurl.com/l4whtDigital TV testedRicability - the independent Research Institute for Consumer Affairs, founded by Which? - has a review of 23 set-top boxes and digital TV recorders.tinyurl.com/htcufTalkTalk HellThere's a blog for those suffering from TalkTalk Hell, but its online petition to Charles Dunstone, the boss of Carphone Warehouse, has just 36 signatures.talktalkhell.wordpress.comStaying safe onlineKaspersky Lab has published a very basic primer on Staying Safe Online. The short text bulks up to a 518K PDF file.www.kaspersky.co.uk/safeonlineIt's a digital worldThe Digital Life Theatre Competition invites companies to submit a two-minute DVD demo that outlines their visions for the future in a digital age. The four winners will be shown at the ITU Telecom World 2006 exhibition in Hong Kong.tinyurl.com/gyouw
Social media sites such as Digg and Reddit. Not that they haven't already had problems, but those have been largely generated from within, such as the cases where a small clique of Digg users mutually admiring each others' submitted links created an echo chamber of approval for particular themes.Last week Kevin Rose, the founder of Digg, posted on the Digg blog that to prevent people gaming the system, "a key update is coming soon. This algorithm update will look at the unique digging diversity of the individuals digging the story. Users that follow a gaming pattern will have less promotion weight." But now, those who make money by getting people to come to sites - the "search engine optimisers" (SEOs) - have started to work their particular brand of magic on "social" sites such as MySpace and, of course Digg, and its siblings."Somewhere on Digg, Newsvine and almost every other user generated content site out there is some policy about "not submitting your own stories, websites or blog postings", comments "Gray Wolf" (atwolf-howl.com). "Well I see those kind of things kind of like handicaps in sports, they make the rest of kids think they can run with the big dogs, and just don't apply to me. So what if I happen to be mildly schizophrenic, and have lots of imaginary friends who are very net savvy? Are you going to discriminate against the people who are reality challenged?"In other words, a skilled SEO can create plenty of "people" who will Digg a particular link or story that will lead readers to a site that pays the SEO per advert shown or clicked or, even better, per visitor. "Web 2.0 opens up a whole new game for those creative enough to use to use it," notes Gray Wolf.Back to Rose: "In the end Digg is yours to control," he wrote. "No matter which stories are promoted, it's up to the masses to digg or bury them. If you see content you disagree with - bury it. If enough people do the same, the system will automatically remove the story." Bear in mind that spam now makes up most of the comments posted on blogs and most of the email that's sent. Now, do you want to bet with Rose or Gray Wolf?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You can't - and it's even more complicated now, because hackers broke into the system's database (via a vulnerability in a wiki, called Tikiwiki, used for support) and stole a number of peoples' passwords and potentially other details such as names and addresses (though not credit card details, which are encrypted on a different server).How many and how much, nobody knows. They then used them to begin making money by selling off victims' unreal wares.Linden Labs, which operates the virtual world, warned that the RL (real life) details of some, all or many of the 650,000 participants in SL were potentially compromised, and that everyone - and yes, that means you too, with the virtual hat on - should demand a new password.But the warning came too late for some: "I reported that my SL account had been hacked on Sunday. Of course, the only reporting that could be done was a message to Customer Support and Live Help as the individual was selling off my first land and deleting my inventory ... I know of two other accounts that were hacked ..." complained one user on the SL forums.The motive for the attack is unclear, though the fact that Second Life does have its own roaring economy (fuelled by Linden dollars, which can in some cases be exchanged for real-world dollars) has led some to suggest that criminals seeking some easy money might have been behind the attack.Cory Ondrejka, chief technology officer of Linden Labs, warned users to watch out for phone scammers pretending to be from the company. (And one should expect a flurry of phishing emails too.) But there could be alternative ways for the hackers to profit from their break-in. After all, to some people the attraction of SL is its disconnection from RL; you can be who you want to be, behave how you want to, and not worry about being connected to your real persona. Until, perhaps, now."If it were me, I'd sell the numbers and spend a little quality time connecting real people to their virtual activities and then send out some discreet emails (or inworld private messages; 'I'll take that dirty money in Lindens, please')," suggested the author of the reBang blog (blog.rebang.com).Details on the hackers' identity remain hazy, although users reported that some of the logins using stolen details came from Russia.With commercial companies beginning to use SL as a means of marketing, and even one potential US presidential candidate testing the waters by campaigning there, expect the reverberations to continue for a while, depending on how many people discover their second life in ruins.Identity theft is hard enough to stop in real life. It's hard to find that having a second one just doubles the problem.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Tim Hibbard wants you to see where he is. On his website (timhibbard .com/wherestim), Hibbard uses GPS technology to plot his location on a map of Lawrence, Kansas, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. A GPS phone in his car feeds information into a Google Map, and a small icon represents Tim Hibbard, website architect and self-confessed geek. If you zoom in on the location, you can see the roof of the building he's in. If you were familiar with Lawrence, you could suggest things for Hibbard to do. "One guy sent me a text message which said: 'Hey dude! Get some coffee!' I was actually already on my way to get coffee," he recalls.It won't be long before Hibbard's isn't the only pin on such maps. GPS business is booming in the US and Europe. But it's only just begun in terms of phones that know your location on the planet - and which are prepared to tell the world about it. Though the US has, since the end of last year, had the E911 ("enhanced 911") system, which lets emergency operators work out the location of someone calling from a new mobile phone - because the phone incorporates a means of working out the location, either using GPS or by triangulation from the strength of the signal at the nearest mobile phone masts - that hasn't been available to the user directly, nor to outsiders.Now GPS is being incorporated into new mobiles so that owners can access it. And the effect could be revolutionary. But who would put their position on a map that anyone could browse? Plenty of people, suggests Hibbard, who predicts that convenience will rule.Everywhere will be familiar"People are very willing to give up their privacy," he says. "You just have to give them a good reason to do so. If you can assist a person in their everyday life, they will be more than happy to divulge their current location. For example, you can synchronise your calendar with your GPS device and be alerted when you need to leave for an appointment, following a route that's been automatically generated based on real-time traffic conditions. Or you can be alerted when you are six blocks from a store that contains an item that is on your online shopping list."Hibbard thinks that GPS-broadcasting phones could even kill off the unwanted advert. While there may be something disquieting about shops monitoring the location of potential customers, you can also view it in terms of the benefits for the consumer. Hibbard explains: "It's kind of like target advertising. I will never buy a truck, I'm just not a truck kind of guy. So if the motor companies knew that, they would not waste their money advertising their new trucks to me. Now, I am always in the market for a new phone and do not have a problem viewing ads for cellular phones. I'm willing to divulge my buying habits in exchange to never see another truck commercial."Or, for example, imagine being in a strange city. You could set up your GPS-enabled phone to alert you when you're near a five-star restaurant, or a hotel within your price range, or a cinema, or a record store. These examples are the tip of the iceberg. We're looking at a future where technology will ensure that nowhere is completely unfamiliar. The services on offer now - simple location-based services from Orange and 3 - will tell you where the nearest bank or cinema is, or recommend a restaurant, or offer a weather report. They're anaemic, though, compared to what could happen - say, having your phone ping when someone in your address book comes within half a mile. (You might want to turn that feature off before arriving in the office.)Heaven for stalkers?But why apply it when among strangers? What about a few thousand of your closest friends? Hibbard believes the crossover potential for GPS is very real: "I think there is a huge market for consumer real- time GPS, especially in social networking sites like MySpace".A social networking site could use real time GPS by letting you add friends to your online profile; perhaps you mark their houses on a map. You also mark other areas where you spend a lot of time - your workplace or your favourite pub. When your friends log on, they can see where you are. You click on their map and you can see where they are. Your phone could even alert you when they're near.A toned-down version - one that only showed where people had been online, rather than in "meatspace" - was implemented last week by the social site Facebook, favourite of the American college crowd.It introduced what it called the "mini-feed", a little box that tracked users' every online action on their profile. Updates ranged from the functional - "John has put up new photos" - to saucy and private: "John has broken up with Linda and is now dating Sarah."The reaction: pandemonium. Users were outraged, infuriated, incandescent. An online petition demanded the removal of the new features, garnering roughly 110,000 signatures. One described the new Facebook as "stalker heaven" and countless others branded it "creepy" or "stalkerish". Facebook pulled the feature within days and posted a mollifying apology. Where was Tim Hibbard telling them they ought to embrace it?But if even teenagers have concerns when it comes to being watched, what about their younger brothers and sisters? Parents who want to track their children can already choose from several different companies in the UK. Some offer tracking via text message, and others more accurate GPS devices. Parents can even "geo-fence" their offspring: if a child carrying the device leaves a certain area, the parents are instantly informed. The same companies offer this service to employers too. (Oddly, managers never volunteer to show off how beneficial such tracking technology is to productivity.)There are &pound;300 GPS systems that can be used to spy on a spouse or partner, with magnets to attach it to the underside of a car. The urge to track each other means even man's best friend isn't safe: the $460 RoamEO GPS tracking system attaches to your dog's collar, and tells you where it is, though only within a one-mile radius. At least you don't have to worry about your pet granting its consent.And ultimately, consent is the bottom line. Whether we're using our mobile phone, wandering around on social networking sites, or just going about our daily lives, we want to have agreed to any tracking that takes place.Whether it's parents tracking children, or employers tracking employees, it's difficult to have pure consent where one party is dependent on the other. Even Hibbard has reservations here: "I have a major problem with the track your kids, or track your wife sites, because the person who's being tracked isn't in control of who is tracking them."John Bell, of Child Locate, claims if the child doesn't want to use the unit he can simply switch it off.Of course, the biggest potential for abuse surely lies with the biggest power: governments. As a pioneer, Hibbard is optimistic. "I could choose to be paranoid and concerned about that, but I'm not. I wasn't around when the first bank was invented, but I'm sure there were a lot of people that had a problem putting their money in someone else's hands."But are we willing to accept that technology, because the benefits and conveniences it offers to us are so tempting? Jen Corlew, of human rights group Liberty, doesn't believe it's worth it. "There might be some benefits of GPS tracking technology becoming popularised but I think the technology makers will be hard pressed to say why this is actually necessary. I don't think those benefits really outweigh the risks of a situation where people can be monitored without being aware of it."One Facebook user, signing the petition opposing the recent changes, noted: "I find it sad this is one of the few issues our generation can band together, complain online and take little real action over. (ROFL)". Therein lies the crux about privacy and tracking: most vehement complaining takes place after people feel they have been victimised by technology, and long after it has been popularised.This is especially true for location-based services, where the opportunities they can provide are so tempting that for now we can merrily begin to try them out. We can also ignore the fact this technology could easily become the eye of Big Brother. However, where Orwell pictured coercion, and countless sci-fi stories imagined us strapped to a surgical table with monitoring chips inserted in our heads, few ever dreamed we'd gleefully sign up for self-surveillance. But Orwell didn't see the fun side, or that surrender might be total once telescreens could show a map with a pin saying, "Tim is here."&#183; GPS phones are almost upon usYou don't have to wait long for a phone that will have inbuilt GPS and that will tell you when your friends come close. Later this month the Finnish telephone company Benefon will launch its TWIG Discovery, incorporating GPS navigation into a mobile phone.Key in its potential attraction to phone networks is its ability to deliver location-based data services, says Jonathan Bate, chief executive of TWIG.But another feature that will feel either Orwellian or enabling, depending on your mood, is the "Finder" capability.This will let you locate and track anyone on your contacts list who also has one of the phones. If you come within a certain range of a nominated list of people in your address book, the phone will send a message over the phone network asking that person if their location can be revealed to you.If the recipient agrees, both phones will show the contacts' locations, and you can navigate towards each other using onscreen maps.But Benefon won't have the market to itself for long. A GPS phone is expected next year from Nokia, and others are expected to pile in as the market explodes. From there, it will be only a short step before people, and perhaps operators, begin to offer ways to show where you are on an online map - just as Tim Hibbard does now.Charles Arthur&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
We get far more letters than we can print on paper. So here are the ones that did make it, and those that didn't, together in a big lump.TV SOFTWARE I have had exactly the same problem with both Hauppauge software and Pinnacle TV card software as Wendy M Grossman reported inTechnobile. If you want a better TV card software try DigiTV. The card is a little more expensive (circa £90) but the software does work most of the time - although still not perfect. Unlike the larger companies there is also evidence that DigiTV is at least continueing to develop its software and does respond to e-mail support calls to resolve setup problems. David Beaney, Northwood, MiddlesexDid Wendy mean to say the EyeTV works? And none of the PC offerings do? I wonder what she means by inner death wish? Obviously the PCs aren't perfectly good. And what's this comment about computers being hard? Some other angle on the inner death wish no doubt. Tim Pinder, LeedsAt the risk of putting Wendy M Grossman's technology therapy back 15 years [Technobile 07/09/06] may I suggest that instead of the "two perfectly good, willing, and able PCs eager to do the job" of recording the tennis she just buys herself a television and video recorder? In fact, scrub that - if her implication that she has only gone out once in three years is correct, may I suggest that she just buys herself a life? James Shepherd, LondonI have a Mac PowerBook and this year (February I think) installed EyeTV and my hard disc crashed shortly afterwards - irrevocably ! Bad luck I thought. So replaced hard drive. In June this year had another go with Eye TV - hard drive crashed (irrevocably). Elgato (EyeTV) assure me this has nothing to do with their software and can see no reason why this should happen. Have replaced hard drive again Anyone want to buy an Elgato Eye TV system - as new - only used twice. David Graeme-Baker, LondonIf Wendy M Grossman wants a TV capture card that works (Hang those who sell cute TV scheduling software that doesn't work and crashes computers Sept 07) she should get one from Nebula Electronics. I bought a Nebula card for my main PC (after a lot of on-line research). It installed and tuned in seconds, the scheduler was easy to use, as stable as a rock and did exactly what it said on the tin. In contrast, during a moment of madness, I recently bought a cheaper Hauppauge card to install on my wife's PC. It took three hours to get XP to recognise the card and several attempts were required to successfully install the software, after which it crashed the PC. I replaced it with my Nebula card, to confirm that PC wasn't a fault, and had it up and running in minutes with no problems at all. A call to Hauppauge technical support resulted in them suggesting a host of BIOS tweaks as 'my PC was obviously at fault'. I explained how I had swapped out the Hauppauge card for a Nebula which worked fine. After a silence lasting several seconds Hauppauge gave me a code to claim a full refund. Needless to say, the wife is now another happy Nebula user. At the end of the day you get what you pay for. Andy Farrington, Gillingham, KentGAMESBLOG Thearticle concerning supposed "sightings" of the Blessed Virgin Marywas done in really poor taste. Yes, it is true that every supposed image of her on sandwiches, etc. is not authentic, but there are many other ways to express that without making snide remarks about her. I am a Catholic and feel this article is offensive to the Mother of God, due to the sarcasms etc. Anita Restivo (no post town given)How would anyone really know what the Virgin Mary actually looked like? There were no photographs at the time and any paintings or even drawings known to have been made of her so that she could be identified 2,000 years on, the same as for JC and Buddha and Mohammed and so many other religious cult figures and icons. Mike Agostini, Sydney, AustraliaMP3 PATENTS I read the story on the 'MP3 Patents Clean Sweep'. As opposed to all the manufacturers using the 'de facto' Fraunhofer/Thompson MP3 encoding standard, I'm sure that they could just as easily use LAME - Lame Ain't an MP3 Encoder - which (licensed under the LGPL) was designed for teaching the psycho-acoustic properties of sound compression. Just a thought. S. Howard (no location given)RIVER OF NEWS Thanks for the great piece about thenews rivers. Dave Winer, Berkeley, California&gt;&gt; Dave is right - and this concept is different in its inherent simplicity and speed. Rivers are reverse chronologies, like weblogs. Current offerings attempt to transport the desktop to the device, are typically slowed by ads and other crap, and are an amalgamation of links that force you to keep on soaking-up bandwidth and minutes. "Rivers Of News" work. Current approaches don't. http://andylark.blogs.com/andylark/&gt;&gt; Dave Winer is brilliant! He has a winning way, not because of his stellar personality or because of his movie star good looks, but because, unlike soooo many of his contemporaries in the tech world, he understands the concept of "simple". http://keithwj.typepad.com/QUALITY CONTROL(CONT'D) I still prefer your previous grouping of science/technology each Thursday but I welcome the introduction of non-IT subjects into the Thursday supplement, as a nod in that direction. However the quality of the science in today's article on the Maglev train was of such a poor level that similar work in either news or arts is unlikely to have reached publication. * The inset on the linear motor said "You can create a linear motor on your own at home". It then described what appears to be simply a method of suspending an object using magnetic repulsion. I don't think this has much to do with a linear motor, although the two principles may be combined in a Maglev train. * Early in the main article it says "The Maglev ...... floats on a magnetised cushion of air". I think you will find that this is a horribly misleading description of the magnetic levitation used - I am sure that it would work fine in a vacuum Please employ either better writers or better sub-editors, or both. Unless you want to appear in your own bad Science column. Keith Butler, RochdaleRick Gibson ('Quality Control' Letters and Blogs, September 7) must accept that there are readers who are not just interested in 'games,' or computers for their own sake. For the likes of me the 'Free our Data' campaign is critical and has to be an on-going issue that must be continually reported. I for one have spent the better part of a generation fighting government to free up information. Information about life-critical data, and how developing technology changes the way we can use it, is surely more important than playing games and giving us stories about new toys. There's surely a raft of magazines that fulfill that rôle. So Guardian keep up campaigning, keep informing us about the fight to free data, and report on aspects of technological change from a perspective that is not inclusive to computer technos! Terry James, CarmarthenRick Gibson's letter this week is absolutely on the button. On-line was excellent, TechGdn increasingly feeble. We have lost interesting games reviews and reviews of new kit and gadgets, and the excellent Jack Schofield has less space. Instead there is the dull whining of technobile; boring accounts of Keegan and his 'phones - let's have proper reviews and tests; moderately interesting stuff like the 'free our data' campaign and interviews with IT business people that shd be elsewhere in the paper; and the unbearable Rees cartoon. Like Gibson, I used to buy the paper on Thursdays largely for in-line. It's no longer worth it. The Gdn re-vamp has generally been very successful - but here it needs a major re-think Robert Maitland, LondonI wholeheartedly agree with Rick Gibsons Letter (Sept 7). One of the things that lured me to the Guardian from the Indy was the Online supplement in the 90's; it had news of emerging web and programming technologies, lots of the latest gadgetry, and was of interest to the technically literate. Nostalgia may have got the better of me, but there might even have been the odd line of code. In short, it was about technology, rather than droning on about the social impact of it. Page 3 of your Sept 7 edition pretty much summed up the present situation: some interesting facts about Maglev trains buried in a lot of dreary political speculation; a tedious whinge about the intransigence of government offices; and a three line bit of froth about some nutcase website padded out to fill the rest of the page. Still, the letters page is always good. Vyv Hope-Scott, BristolInteresting that Mr Rick Gibson (Quality Control 8/8/6) claims to have a "mind" which he asserts is capable of being numbed by Victor Keegan at the same time as being starved of games pap. I can only assume that you printed the whole of his letter as self-evident proof that his claim is unsustainable. Leo Mercier, TruroI must endorse the comments of Rick Gibson (Quality Control) and in particular the comment about the newly asked questions section. I've been reading the Guardian for over 40 years &amp; used to read the IT/ Science section first.Now I barely glance at it. The David Rees Comic Strip.What is that aboutt? Is it supposed to be funny? Bring back the IT/Science Section.Please. Joseph McKenna, GlasgowMAGLEV Re [the comment in theMaglevarticle that] "if george steveson had taken so long...." Well, he was not the first to produce a railway engine, but it may have happened a lot sooner, but for the patent james watt had on steam engines. it was not until the patent ran out that the first railway engine could be developed Maybe we can look up the headlines on google and maglev invented in britain and exported everywhere The real reason the UK has not built maglev is that the finance is not interested in the real world, they just shove money about in ever more devious ways, grabbing as much as they can get away with, as it goes by. Funny old world. Keith Scott, LincolnA minor, but significant, amendment to your item featuring the Maglev high speed train (September 7th). The train does not connect Pudong Airport to Shanghai city centre. It terminates at Longyang Lu metro station, a 25 minute plus taxi ride to the centre. This expensive and relatively under-used system is regarded in Shanghai as something of an economic disaster and plans to extend it into Shanghai have been shelved. Claude Hutton, NorwichIn Sean Dodson's article about maglev, I loved the idea that the train floats on "a magnetised cushion of air". Does the Guardian know where I can get some magnetised air? And just think, if we could magnetise all the world's air then we could do away with those bird-killing turbines and generate vast amounts of electricity by simply standing loops of wire in the ground and waiting for the wind to blow over them. I would love a more in depth scientific explanation though - can you clarify: is it the oxygen, nitrogen or the trace gases that are getting magnetised? Nick Murza-Murzicz, LondonTo make a linear motor, you need "a couple of dozen magnets", 20 for the track and about 6 for the train. It must be the use of the baker's dozen (13) as a scientific unit which permits the creation of "a magnetised cushion of air". David Hitchin, Seaford
The LA Times and The New York Times have followed up a Silicon Valley blog that revealedLonelygirl15 Is Brainchild of 3 FilmmakersorThe Lonelygirl That Really Wasn't.According to the NYT:The masterminds of the Lonelygirl15 videos are Ramesh Flinders, a screenwriter and filmmaker from Marin County, Calif., and Miles Beckett, a doctor turned filmmaker. The high quality of the videos caused many users to suspect a script and production crew, but Bree's bedroom scenes were shot in Mr. Flinders's home, in his actual bedroom, typically using nothing more than a Logitech QuickCam, a Web camera that retails for about $150.Yesterday onSilicon Valley Watcher, Matt Foremski, the 18-year-old son of former Financial Times reporter Tom Foremski, was the first to identify Bree as New Zealand-born actress Jessica Rose.The New York Times says:The discovery and the swift and subsequent revelation of other details surrounding the perpetrators of the videos and the fake fan site that accompanied it are bringing to an end one of the Internet's more elaborately constructed mysteries. The fans' disbelief in Lonelygirl15 was not willingly suspended, but rather teased and toyed with. Whether they will embrace the project as a new narrative form, condemn it or simply walk away remains to be seen.Comment: In one sense, it's good that the Lonelygirl15 spoof was done with minimal equipment, and that anyone could have done it. But it bites the legs off the story, unless (for example) some studio signs them up to turn it into a movie....
In a new survey of casual gaming habits commissioned byPopCapand carried out by the Information Solutions Group, over 2100 purchasers of PopCap titles like Bejeweled and Zuma have been cornered and quizzed. And - as witha similar surveycarried out earlier in the year - we discover that the term casual gamer can be disingenuous.When asked about 'leisure time priorities', 76 percent of respondents picked 'playing casual games', while only 70 percent went for 'spending time with friends or family'. Also, over half of the respondents (52%) stated that they play casual games for at least five hours per week, while 29% said they play for 10 or more hours each week.More interesting though were peoples' motives for playing...From the press release:"88% of players indicated they experienced stress relief from playing casual games and 74% cited mental exercise as a benefit; when asked to choose the most important reasons for playing, 41% picked "stress relief/relaxation," more than twice the number (19%) who chose "entertainment"; 27% said the games provided distraction from chronic pain and/or fatigue, and fully 8% said they derived actual relief from chronic pain and/or fatigue."I can't see puzzle games being prescribed on the National Health just yet, though.Elsewhere, it turns out that, yes, lots of women play casual games - and they play thema lot("60% of all female casual gamers say they play on a daily basis, compared to 44% of men"), and that quite a few people play casual games instead of watching television. With interactive TV games and all-night phone-in quiz shows becoming ever more popular this is not a surprising figure.The future of television is Zuma, hosted by a z-list celebrity, with cash prizes. Forever.More statshere
Just in case you haven't seen this,here'sa couple of images of Nintendo's new VoIP headset for the DS. Due out in Japan tomorrow for the princely sum of YEN1,200, the device will allow gamers to taunt each other while playingMetroid Prime HuntersorPokemon Diamond/Pearl.It looks a bit like one of those Bluetooth headsets that scruffy looking middle-aged men wear - you know, the sort of chaps who keep their mobile phones in a plastic case attached to their belts. But better.Lord knows the sort of trash talk that Pokefans will engage in...ViaPlastic Bamboo
ModelClio 2.0 Renaultsport 197Price&pound;15,995Top speed134mphAcceleration0-62mph in 6.9secsConsumption31.7 mpg (combined)EmissionsCO2 209g/kmAt the wheelJodie KiddThey'd rather walkCindy CrawfordOn the stereoArctic MonkeysEn route forThe horizonNot the Renault Clio, note, but the Clio Renault-sport. It's an important distinction, the difference between a regular Clio and a Renaultsport Clio being approximately 450 additional litres of neat testosterone or, roughly, the distance between Aled Jones and Justin Timberlake. The Clio is the latest car in the Renault range, after the Meg&acirc;ne, to get the Renaultsport treatment, wherein a car of thoroughly decent but modest capabilities is craftily rebooted for road racing, thereby reaching out, in a startlingly new way, to the young, free and single and/or repeat offenders with a jemmy.Check out the aluminium pedals. Note the furious fetishism of the red stitching on the perforated leather steering wheel. Observe how this is the fastest accelerating car for the price. The sound of the engine, fairly innocuous at tick-over, broadens out, under acceleration, to the mightily aggrieved howl of an alsatian that has just had its tail slammed in a door. The made-over Clio is uncommonly perky, up for a laugh and altogether a bit of a handful, even if it does come with brakes as standard.On the topic of which, Renault urges us all to note the "easy to dose pedal travel", which I take to mean that the brake pedal responds uncomplicatedly to the application of a foot. However you look at it, that's no bad thing in a brake pedal.You may be pleased to learn of the incorporation into the car of a "semi-rigid under bumper splitter", which sounds either rude or painful, or possibly both. The back bumper also incorporates a rear air diffuser - a piece of kit derived from formula one and hitherto only likely to be found on sports cars of a particularly snorting and costly hue. The diffuser is meant specifically to prevent the phenomenon of "rear end lift", and you can intuit the point of it immediately in the case of a streaky racing car.But what about in a car like the Clio, which is so short that, technically, it doesn't have a rear end to lift? Ah, well. We'll take the engineers' word that the diffuser "reduces lift by a factor of three" and provides "the equivalent of 40kg of rear downforce" at high speeds, which is quite a few bags of sugar. And anything that means a car doesn't even have to pretend to need a clumpy rear-end spoiler (second only to the go-faster stripe in the catalogue of cowboy car accessories) can't be a bad thing.By all these means, the Clio is, we learn, invested with "street cred" - no small leap. The original Clio, you may recall, was the chosen mode of transport, not just of Nicole, but also of her Papa. In other words, though it winked at the footloose, it was plausibly a dad's car, too. A surprisingly sprightly dad, it must be said. But a dad, none the less.Thinking along these lines, I used my 2.0 litre 197 version of the Clio, complete with headache-inducing Monarko Blue paint job, not, as it seemed to be begging me, to ram-raid my local branch of Iceland, but rather to ferry two elderly female relations on a shopping trip to an out-of-town Sainsbury's in Essex. The combined age of my guests on this bold and, in its own way, staggeringly pioneering voyage, was 159 and I don't think it would be patronising or ageist of me to suggest that neither of them was really straightforwardly in the target market for a fat-wheeled, steel-pedalled hot hatch. Indeed, I would hazard it was the first time that either of them had been in a body-hugging, rally-style car seat for some considerable while.Bear in mind, too, that the Clio Renaultsport is a three-door car, meaning that one of these passengers was required to squeeze into the back seat over the tilted front seat, an awkward and potentially undignified business for most people, not least for people who have, for some time now, been using walking sticks.Talk about a semi-rigid under bumper splitter. And yet the entire manoeuvre passed off with relative ease and without intervention from the emergency services at any point. There was, I will admit, a slightly tricky moment during the exit phase when it occurred to me that I might, rather embarrassingly, be obliged to return the car to Renault with my aunt in it. But overall the voyage was completed with panache, comfort and some 11 bags of shopping stowed in the boot.I mention all this merely to demonstrate that, even in this heated-up version, more than a hint of the Clio's founding spirit as a public-minded, deeply practical motor for all ages lives on. It just lives a little faster, that's all.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Microsoft has cleared the way for its Info Card identity system to be widely adopted, and/or for other systems to interoperate, by making theMicrosoft Open Specification Promise. Basically this is an irrevocable promise not to sue people for using WS* standards -- unless you sue Microsoft, in which case the gloves come off. The Q&amp;A says:Q: How does the Open Specification Promise work? Do I have to do anything in order to get the benefit of this OSP?A: No one needs to sign anything or even reference anything. Anyone is free to implement the specification(s), as they wish and do not need to make any mention of or reference to Microsoft. Anyone can use or implement these specification(s) with their technology, code, solution, etc. You must agree to the terms in order to benefit from the promise; however, you do not need to sign a license agreement, or otherwise communicate your agreement to Microsoft.Johannes Ernst's Blogputs it in the context of OSIS, the Open Source Identity Selector project:As many readers of this blog probably know, the OSIS project, that we co-initiated at NetMesh with Verisign and Microsoft, was one of the major drivers for this promise, as this promise is necessary for non-Windows InfoCard / CardSpace implementations. OSIS now has many member companies such as IBM, Red Hat, Novell, Sun, Sxip, Cordance, Ping and Social Physics, and just was chartered as a working group under the new Identity Commons.Microsoft's Kim Cameron, who invented Info Cards, has also chimed in witha blogified versionof the official announcement.Comment: It would be better if software patents were banned altogether, or at least rendered null and void whenever they are included at the owner's instigation in anything that aspires to be an industry standard. However, OSP sounds as though it could be a viable workaround. It's better than nothing.It should also be noted thatthe world's patent monster, IBM, did something a little similar last year when,as CNet reports, "it decided to let open source developers use 500 software patents without fear of an infringement lawsuit." More, please!
Writing about Steve Jobs' cabaret act last night,my colleague Bobbie Johnson remarksof the forthcoming iTV that: "even at an inflated $299 price point, it's a damn sight cheaper than buying a media center computer."Well, I guess it depends on your definition of "heck of a lot" but I'd be surprised if you couldn't get a Media Center PC for something close to $299 -- though it won't be the latest and greatest model. Wal-Mart, for example, offers theeMachines W3115for $398. That's $100 more, but the PC also includes a computer with 120GB hard drive, keyboard, 17in screen and speakers. Alternatively, you could easily build your own: all PC users are free to do that.And, of course, Media Center capability is built into Windows Vista, so most standard PCs next year will be Media Centers too.But, obviously, the iTV isn't anything like a Media Center PC: it's a set-top box that performs the same function as Microsoft's old Media Center Extender idea. Indeed, the iTV looks pretty much like, say, theLinksys Media Center Extenderthat came out in 2004. (MCE's usually run Windows CE, which is also used in handhelds like the iPaq -- which predates the iPod -- mobile phones and other devices.)However, today, the Media Center Extender of choice is the one built into the Xbox 360 games console, which is not a heck of a lot more than an iTV, butdoesa heck of a lot more. In the UK, you can get an Xbox "core" system for less than £200.Wired editorChris "Long Tail" Andersonis one of the many enthusiasts, and as he says, "Apple is playing catch-up".No doubt there is some amusement value in Steve Jobs's bullshit about how Microsoft has done nothing but struggle with Vista for five years while Apple has produced a stream of $99 upgrades to Mac OS X. But by the time iTV gets going, millions of homes could already have PCs running Vista beaming movies to Xbox 360 consoles attached to TV sets, synchronising with portable media players (Archos, Creative etc), PDAs and Windows Mobile phones, among other things. Maybe even the odd Tablet PC!The one thing you can bet on is that most of these users won't be paying Steve Jobs-style prices to download movies.
Those who know me know that I have an unhealthy fascination with virtual world research. To my discredit, I haven't yet been to a State of Play conference, the leading forum on the subject which gathers thinkers from all corners of the meatspace and digital globe to discuss the relevance of these new online spaces to law, governance and society in general.The conferences have to date been situated in North America, arguably a severe oversight considering the global reach of virtual worlds, but then again the instigators have been US universities, so fair enough.However, they're righting this wrong, and are going to the heart of the great unknown (in the West, at least) virtual world society at next year's event. They're going to Asia.Whether they take the form of games, social spaces, or educational environments, virtual worlds are now truly global in scope. The popularity of virtual worlds in Asia is phenomenal. From Thailand and Malaysia to Indonesia and the Philippines, the Asia Pacific region's on-line gaming market generated approximately $1.4 billion in annual revenues last year - a figure that is expected to reach $3.6 billion by the end of the decade.Much of this growth will be propelled by 180 million Chinese Internet users, the majority of whom will play on-line games. Jaw-dropping insight into China's hunger for on-line games can be seen in the turnout for last month's ChinaJoy conference. Now in its fifth year, the event attracted approximately 124,000 game developers and enthusiasts -- almost twice the number who attended E3 at its peak in 2005. As industry analyst Frank Yu points out, "this makes it the most attended game event in the world." Unlike E3 and CES, which focus on graphics hardware and home consoles, ChinaJoy emphasizes virtual worlds and casual games.Of course China is just part of the story. Throughout Asia, people of all ages are gathering in cybercafes to participate in "deep" virtual worlds such as Lineage II and World of Warcraft or to play casual titles such as PangYa. With the highest broadband penetration rate of any country on the planet, Korea is currently an epicenter of gaming innovation, pioneering a free-to-play business model that seriously threatens subscription-based titles. Meanwhile, analysts note that India is poised to become a huge player once it builds out the necessary technological infrastructure. India is already the region's third largest market for on-line games, despite the fact that less than .02% of the population has broadband access.For more information on State of Play IV (Building the Global Metaverse), check out theirwebsite. You can also see the proceedings of previous events. The next conference will take place in Singapore 7-9 January next year.
I was at last night's London beamback of the announcements from Apple (sorry for not blogging it live!) and had a few thoughts to add in addition to those thatCharlespointed out earlier.iPod:I got my hands on the new kit, and while the iPod changes are all nice they're hardly a huge progression: the nano styling is merely replicating the mini, the Shuffle 2.0 is dinky and much less chavtastic than the old one, but it's still a shuffle. But from the blank stares given to me by Apple insiders I spoke to last night, I think we might see more iPod hardware over the next month.iTunes:Logical progressions in software, and the addition of some third-party software inside the player inCoverFlow(which Ipointed outmonths ago). I can't get very excited about "gapless playback", which clearly excited concept album fan Steve Jobs.Movie store:The big news was what we all expected... but when is the rest of the world going to get video and movie downloads? Sometime in 2007 - that's a long, long time after the US, and I was disappointed we didn't see any content deals announced for the UK or Europe. I was also surprised that they couldn't announce anything beyond Disney, where (I'm sure you're all aware) Jobs is a director - I was expecting the announcement of a widely-leaked deal with Lionsgate.iTV:Pitching a product more thanthree monthsahead of launch? That doesn't seem very Apple. That's one reason why, In many ways, the introduction of this product felt more like a corporate pitch than anything else: Jobs telling Hollywood that this is coming, get on board now.However, I'm more positive than Charles was on the prospect for this gizmo: at least as the opening salvo in a proper living room strategy. Of course I'm surprised that it's taken so long, but it looks easy to operate and will work with PC or Mac - and even at an inflated $299 price point, it's a damn sight cheaper than buying a media center computer.One joke doing the rounds made me laugh, though: it's taken the technology industry years of hard work and marketing so that you can do something incredible like...watch movies on your TV set. What progress.
Ever since I became hopelessly addicted to Arkanoid many years ago, I've always looked out for new interpretations of the Breakout recipe. Imagine my therapist's horror, then, when I discovered two fresh versions floating around in indie gaming cyberspace. If you find yourself with ten free minutes at work today, why not join me as I peel back the years (of aversion treatment) and indulge in some bat-and-ball action.First up, BD Studio hasDeep Ball Defender(pictured above) - perhaps the first Breakout clone to come from the Chinese casual game development community. It's a modern take on the genre with 100 levels plus a custom edit mode. There are also 78 different bricks. 78!Even more progressive isOrb Bustera two-player competitive online version of the classic game, which runs on developer Blue Alien Games' own servers. Complete with chat room and live statistical updates, it is the ultimate in BreakOut-themed timewasting.Any readers like to nominatetheirfavourite indie updates of staple Atari classics?ViaGame TunnelandMad Monkey.
Dear Matt,Do you have any tips and thoughts on preventing, overcoming, cycling through or other ways of dealing with leg muscle cramps on long rides?Tony Ramsay, via emailCramp is one of my favourite subjects - albeit not my favourite experience. Scientifically we still know remarkably little about what causes cramp but dehydration certainly seems to play a role, so do stay well-watered on a ride. Ideally, use a drink containing electro-lytes (mineral salts), as these aid absorption and replace those lost in sweat. There is a hypothesis that the muscle spasms of cramp are caused by rogue hydrogen ions released by anaerobic effort. Which is a fancy way of saying that cramp can simply be a sign that you have pedalled too hard, too long. Perhaps aim to ride within your aerobic threshold more: over time you will get fitter, and your muscles will improve their "tolerance" and be less susceptible to cramp.Finally, I find stretching good: keeping your muscles "long" helps ward off those excruciating pangs.
Better battery life, brighter screen - thenew iPodis pretty much what was expected. But the launch of a new games service for iTunes? Surprised me anyway, if only because I can't imagine using the pod to play games on. Maybe you're tempted to download casual gaming favourites like Zuma and Pac-Man for around a fiver? Or perhaps, like me, you're concerned about the effect on battery life? And what about the controls? Fancy playing Pac-Man using the click wheel? No, me neither. Of course, this announcement only confirms that casual games - although anyone who has played the latter stages of Zuma will know that it is anything but "casual" - have become big business. But honestly though, games for your iPod? I'll stick to my DS thanks.
Steve Jobs has spoken - wearing, unusually, not a black turtleneck but a burgundy (we think, from thepictures at Engadget) shirtwith buttons- and the summary is:new iPods (bigger drives - 30GB or 80GB, brighter but not bigger screens, searching via scrolling)new iPod nanos (made of aluminium, in colours but not white - hmm), up to 8GBgames such as Pac-Man to play on your iPod, at $4.99 eachan aluminium iPod shuffle that's even smaller than the firstfree album art if you don't have it on your ripped music, providing you have an iTunes accountbiggger (640x480) TV shows, not that that means a lot to UK and European users, who would like the chanceiTunes 7, which has a new layout, and offers movies from Disney, Pixar, Touchstone and Miramax (ie all distributed by Disney). They'll cost $12.99 for pre-orers, and other films are $9.99. (No word yet on whether they'll be available in the UK.) Jobs says it'll be about 30 minutes to download a movie on a 5Mb/s link."One last thing": the "iTV" ("we need a better name") which will be for wireless streaming of your films from your computer to your TV. This will apparently be "introduced in Q1 2007".Comments? Well, it's pretty much everything that had been forecast ahead of time; sources have clearly been massaging expectations just right to get the maximum media buzz. (See the Guardian tomorrow.) Expect it to garner very much more ink than Amazon's woeful launch of Unbox. Not a sign or a hint of the "iPhone"; it was a year ago that the Motorola ROKR was launched (and simultaneously upstaged by the iPod nano), and that sank like a stone.Movies? In 640 by 480, it's a giant leap forward to 1985, and VGA, isn't it? Jobs called it "near DVD quality at 640x480 resolution". Yes, but the average TV screen roughly equates to 1024 x 768. Anything less isn't "near" DVD. It's a quarter the size. The rights will be the same as the TV shows - so no burning to disc. It's hardly terrific for a backup strategy. We think that at those prices, the likes of Netflix - and indeed Amazon - can sleep easy. When the physical product is cheaper than the virtual one, it's only a contest where people won't travel. And even then, the file-sharing networks haven't gone away.The video streaming has been such an obvious product for so long that it is truly amazing that Apple isn't launching it now. (I thought, back in October 2001, that the "music-related product" Apple was going to introduce would be a wireless music and video streamer. So, only off by a few years...) Quite what the point in dangling it before the masses is we don't know, unless it's to let down the people atElgato- whose EyeHome product has been doing this, except without the wireless bit (or the HD output bit), for years.In all: sure to give iPod sales a surge; sell a few more old movies; and leave some people gagging for the iTV (hmm, EyeTV.. iTV.. did we mention that the head of Apple Germany used to run Elgato? Anyway). But the iTV doesn't do much that you can't already do, if anything; Microsoft's Media Centre, which is included in all PCs sold now, will do your beaming of content if that's what you want. Though possibly not from iTunes. It seems pricey though just to watch a film at 640x480.
Apple has unveiled an 80-gigabyte version of its iPod music and video player as part of a fight back against rivals threatening its dominance of the digital music market.The company also confirmed rumours that it had struck a deal allowing users of its iTunes online music store to download copies of selected titles by Disney, Pixar, Touchstone and Miramax.The $349 (&#163;186) 80gb iPod will be the most capacious model yet, with a third more storage than the 60gb photo iPod released in 2004.Also announced at the keenly-awaited product launch at Apple's San Francisco offices was a thinner version of the iPod nano that would be available in five colours and boast a 24-hour battery life.Feverish speculation typically surrounds Apple's theatrical product launches, and this year there was speculation that chief executive Steve Jobs was to announce an iPhone that would mark the company's first foray into the phone handset market.But the relatively modest developments announced today are hoped to consolidate Apple's position in a highly competitive field.The iTunes music store has long been a key element in Apple's control of an 80% slice of the online music market, but challengers are increasingly attacking the pre-eminence of the service.eMusic, a subscription-based site which offers downloads that are less restricted in the ways users can listen to them,launchedacross Europe yesterday and new contenderSpiralFrogis due to launch later this year with a free download offering that will have access to Universal Music's back catalogue.Many observers of Apple had expected a much more dramatic launch today that would shake up the film market in the same way that the iPod shook up the music market. The announcement falls short of that, although other film studios are believed to remain in talks with Apple over adding their films to the service.The cooperation of the four Disney-owned studios included in today's announcement would have been eased by Mr Jobs' position as a Disney board member and founder of Pixar.Several other companies have already released hard disk-based digital video players with up to 100gb storage, but none have the market position and brand recognition enjoyed by Apple's iconic music player.
Tried to visit the iTunes Music Store lately? You can't - it's down. People all over the world who needed, dammit,neededto get that Weird Al Yankovic track to play to their girlfriend are just going to have to wait, it seems, for another two and a half hours (can this be serious?) until Steve Jobs mounts the stage in San Francisco and doesn't get down until he's unveilednew iPods (a revised nano and bigger movie-playing iPod)downloadable filmsquite possibly, an updated Airport Express (it istwo years old and hasn't seen a sniff of an update all that time) that will let you beam your downloaded film to your TV setwirelessly. (Imagine! Films sent through the air! It's like... vision at a distance! We could call it... television!)possibly, just very possibly, a phone that also plays music. (Yes, obviously amobilephone.)Seriously, though, everything hangs on the pricing and the DRM. If it costs more than a DVD (rented through NetFlix, perhaps) or if the DRM prevents you burning a DVD of it, this is going to go badly.Expect the first films to be from Disney and Pixar, since the largest shareholder on both is the person introducing the show. Which implies that he might have been able to negotiate a favourable deal on both the price and the DRM....In the meantime, if you do need that Weird Al Jankovic track, it'shere.
It has come to symbolise a generation of business people on the go - but a new venture from a consortium of leading technology firms intends to crush the BlackBerry.Vodafone, Microsoft and Palm announced a joint offensive they hope will make a direct challenge to Research in Motion (RIM), the makers of the BlackBerry.With the new touch-screen Treo 750v, a smartphone that can handle email, web browsing and multimedia content, RIM hopes to steal away a significant proportion of the lucrative corporate email market, as well as make waves with more mainstream customers.Though the Treo brand is hugely successful in the United States and commands a slavish following among technology-obsessed executives, it has struggled to achieve the same kind of mind share in Europe. Palm's decision to link up with the world's largest mobile operator and software company signals further expansion into a market that analysts estimate will be worth 43bn (&#163;29bn) by 2009."Expanding the Treo footprint globally is a key focus for Palm," said Ed Colligan, the company's president and chief executive. "We are confident that we can captivate mobile professionals and businesses and help them be more productive in the office and on the go."Palm made a pre-announcement this month that Treo handset sales would fall short of expectations, but executives claim that by working with Vodafone and Microsoft it can take a substantial slice of the European market. The company hopes to grow its brand, which most British customers still associate with handheld computers, and claw back market share from rivals.The new Treo is the first to use Windows Mobile, and though it supports Microsoft email it can also be used with a number of rival products - including BlackBerry's own Connect service."We want to reach beyond techies and pure business people," said John Hartnett, vice-president of Palm. "It's a long-term strategy: closed solutions solve today's need, but an open platform will win in the long run."But while Palm looks to snatch BlackBerry's laurels, RIM is itself attempting to diversify. Last week the Canadian-based company launched a new version of its flagship handset, dubbed the BlackBerry Pearl, in an attempt to take mainstream audiences by storm. As well as delivering mobile email, the Pearl can handle phone calls, text messages and music files - and it has a built-in camera too.Industry analysts say that the Pearl could be what the company needs to expand. RIM's device has only 5.5 million subscribers around the world, but its widespread media coverage and the addictive quality that has seen it nicknamed the "crackberry" are envied by competitors."They've all been saying 'I want a piece of that BlackBerry pie'," said Avi Greengart of Current Analysis. "Research in Motion is able to say that it not only does multimedia but it lets RIM defend its enterprise niches."
BAFTA has released its final nominations for The British Academy Video Games Awards, taking place on October 5. There's a generous 17 categories with most genres covered as well as the likes of Technical Achievement, Innovation and Screenplay. PSP oddball, LocoRoco, and Ubisoft shooter Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter pull in the most namechecks with eight nominations each. Other well-represented titles include We Love Katamari with six nominations and Guitar Hero with five.In the Best Game category, you'll find EA's barnstorming PS2 blast-'em-up, Black, Guitar Hero, Dr Kawashima's Brain Training, Hitman: Blood Money, Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy and Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. Strangely, there's another category for Gameplay, which favours The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion and LocoRoco over Hitman and Brain Training. I wonder what the differing criteria was?You can find a full list of nominationshere.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Microsoft is undertaking the biggest overhaul of its MSN UK portal in four years to offer better advertising opportunities including branded video.The new homepage, which goes live tomorrow, is designed to give brand advertisers more prominence on MSN's prime real estate.The website will allow much more personalisation against a "clean white background" to make the site less cluttered and more user-friendly.There will also be four new combinations of what MSN calls "sponsorship takeovers" involving a mixture of advertising shapes and sizes and interactive video.Earlier this week, figures from Thomson Intermedia and KPMG for the second quarter to the end of June showed a 36% year-on-year increase in the number of display advertising impressions among the top five UK websites, including MSN, AOL and Yahoo!.The top five players account for two-thirds of advertising impressions.In May, MSN rival Yahoo! overhauled its homepage for the first in over two years to allow more consumer interaction and strengthen its advertising appeal, as well as move toward a next-generation, "social" search engine."The homepage is our 'front cover' and the first stop for users," said Katy Adelson, the digital marketing manager at MSN UK."The redesign is part of our ongoing strategy to make MSN more user-friendly while offering brands a highly interactive platform to engage with their audience."MSN attracts over 7 million unique users each month.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
It's been a decent few weeks for mobile game releases, so if you're still cynical about this murky area of interactive entertainment, but want to give it at least one pop, here are some suggestions...Gameloft has its latest Splinter Cell title ready for release. InDouble Agent, you once again take control of ace Third Echelon operative Sam Fisher who this time round must infiltrate a terror cell and bring it down from the inside. As with the other excellent Splinter Cell translations, this is a beautifully designed 2D platformer, with clever, easily accessible stealth elements (hiding in shadowy doorways for example) and gadgets.The pace is also perfect. Each screen acts like a self-contained puzzle, giving you time to work out how to take down guards quietly (there'salwaysa quiet way) and to use the environment to your advantage. There are some lovely action set-pieces too.Stranded(pictured, above left), the Lost-inspired adventure from Glu is also worth a look. As a shipwreck victim, you find yourself washed up on an island with a variety of other survivors and must explore the crisply-detailed top-down-viewed terrain, meeting natives and discovering secrets about your fellow ex-passengers. There are some fun little Harvest Moon-style elements (you can grow vegetables then use them to make a yummy casserole) and different animals come out at different times, depending on your in-game clock. A really well thought-out mobile game then, that really exploits the advantages of the format without falling into its many pitfalls. It will be interesting to see how Gameloft fares with the official mobile adaptation of Lost, due later this year.I've also been enjoyingDead Water(pictured, above right), another 2D platformer, this time from new Scottish developer Tag Games. Here, you're stuck on a sinking cargo ship and must work your way up from the depths of the hull to the surface while the water level rises relentlessly. Clambering up ladders and jumping onto remote walkways is part of the action, but at times, you also have to dive under the rising waters and swim to inaccessible sections, keeping an eye on a rapidly depleting oxygen meter.It's tense stuff, bringing to mind cult SNES title SOS as well as the underwater sections of Sonic and Tomb Raider. Controls can be fiddly at times, especially when you're trying to climb out of the water onto another object, but it's an interesting challenge nonetheless.
A couple of stories today for keen PS3 watchers. GameDailyBIZ has areportfrom Sony Computer Entertainment America asserting that 'final assembly' for PS3 will begin at the end of September with 400,000 units shipping before the November 17 launch - another 800,000 are apparently set to follow later. Interestingly, the article mentions the expected ratio of premium to core packages available in the first shipment: it's an 80/20 split in favour of the former. Looks like budget-conscious gamers are going to be frustrated for a little while longer...Meanwhile, it seems that Sony's hardware production problems have not gone unnoticed at the very top of the company. Ken Kutaragi has beenquoted in GamesIndustry.bizwith a spin-free piece of self-analysis:"If you asked me if Sony's strength in hardware was in decline, right now I guess I would have to say that might be true"Hopefully, this sense of acknowledgement is just the first step in Sony's efforts to reconnect with its fans, especially those of us in unfavoured Europe. Next step - lots of juicy PAL special editions of US and Japanese launch games, all packed with extra content. It is the least they can do...
Better late than never. Quick, get chatting!
"Every so often a mod comes along that's so intricate, so amazing, so over the top, that words simply don't do it justice (but we'll try anyway). Ben Heckendorn's Xbox 360 laptop is one such mod."Read the rest of the story at Engadget....
"Podcasters need to take action now to stop a treaty from the UN's World Intellectual Property Organization that threatens their way of life," saysBoing Boing.The Broadcast Treaty is an attempt to force the world's governments to give a new right to broadcasters, a right to control the use of works they don't own. The Broadcast Right will allow broadcasters to stop you from copying or re-using the programs they transmit, even if those programs are in the public domain, Creative Commons licensed or composed of uncopyrightable facts.The Electronic Frontier Foundation has aprotest letterpeople can sign. Interested parties are asked to email email podcastersandwipo@eff.org
Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's founder, has done the right thing.In a blog post, he has apologised for the introduction of the feeds that upset so many users (seeFacebook's giant blunder, below), and started to correct them. He writes:We really messed this one up. When we launched News Feed and Mini-Feed we were trying to provide you with a stream of information about your social world. Instead, we did a bad job of explaining what the new features were and an even worse job of giving you control of them. I'd like to try to correct those errors now.Later, he adds:But apologizing isn't enough. I wanted to make sure we did something about it, and quickly. So we have been coding nonstop for two days to get you better privacy controls. This new privacy page will allow you to choose which types of stories go into your Mini-Feed and your friends' News Feeds, and it also lists the type of actions Facebook will never let any other person know about.Whether this will be the end of the story remains to be seen. No doubt users will make their feelings known.
The Mermaid, Puddle Dock, is not the first place you might go in search of the cool and cutting edge. That will not stop an expectant crowd gathering at the conference centre in London's Blackfriars this week for a live satellite broadcast from San Francisco that could make or break one of the consumer icons of the Western world.The iPod, the digital music player beloved of everyone from Coldplay's Chris Martin to President George Bush, is in danger of losing its sheen. Sales are declining at an unprecedented rate. Industry experts talk of a 'backlash' and of the iPod 'wilting away before our eyes'. Most disastrously, Apple's signature pocket device with white earphones may simply have become too common to be cool.On Tuesday the eyes of iPod-lovers the world over will be on Steve Jobs, the co-founder and chief executive of Apple, when he seeks to allay fears that it could follow Sony's tape-playing Walkman into the recycling bin of history.Jobs is widely expected to announce the most ambitious iPod service yet - the sale of feature-length films via the internet for viewing on the devices, which may receive an expanded 'widescreen' and improved storage capacity. If downloading movies from a computer to an iPod proves even half as revolutionary as it did for music, the multibillion-pound DVD industry could be quaking. There are rumours that Jobs will also announce a long expected 'iPhone', combining the music function and sleek style of an iPod with a mobile phone.Industry-watchers warn that the iPod could soon be regarded by teenage cynics as their 'parents' player' because a mass-market product rarely equates with edgy fashionability. Although it has sold nearly 60 million actual iPods and a billion downloaded songs worldwide, cracks have begun to appear in the edifice. The Zandl Group, a New York-based trends forecaster which regularly interviews a panel of 3,000 consumers aged 25-35, recently picked up its first significant criticisms. 'The iPod is far and away the most popular tech gadget with our panellists - however, for the first time we are hearing negative feedback about the iPod from some panellists,' said the organisation's spokeswoman, Carla Avruch. 'Panellists cite that the batteries are not replaceable, so when they die the entire player must be replaced,' she said. 'We have heard from some conspiracy theorists that the batteries are made to die soon after the warranty ends.'Other complaints are that iTunes [Apple's online music store] is overpriced and the format is not easily transferred on to other players. In our ethnography interviews, some long-time iPod-users told us that they have stopped updating their iPods because it's too much work, while other consumers who had bought iPods more recently had not even taken theirs out of the package to set it up.'She added that the iPod is in danger of becoming a victim of its own success: 'Some backlash is against the ubiquity of the iPod - everyone has those white headphones on the train.'Analysts warn that the iPod has passed its peak. From its launch five years ago its sales graph showed a consistent upward curve, culminating in a period around last Christmas that saw a record 14 million sold. But sales fell to 8.5 million in the following quarter, and down to 8.1 million in the most recent three-month period. Wall Street is reportedly starting to worry that the bubble will burst.Tomi Ahonen, a technology brand expert and author, said: 'For the first time the iPod has had two consecutive falls after 17 quarters of growth. If I were the manager, I would be wanting my people to explain what is going on. The iPod is wilting away before our eyes.'He cited new mobile phones with improved MP3 players as the cause of the iPod's dwindling appeal. 'In 2005 all the big phone manufacturers released phones that play music. Phones are outselling dedicated MP3 players by six to one. Apple had the market for MP3, but they lost it.'Ahonen, author of Communities Dominate Brands, predicted that in the long term the iPod will have only a narrow audience. 'It will continue to dominate a niche at the top end: if you're a musician or a DJ you'll use it because it's the best, like a photographer with his Nikon camera. But the average mobile phone user gets a new handset every 18 months, and a quarter of mobile phones sold this year will have an MP3 player. In the same way as camera phones have pushed cameras to one side, this is an automatic replacement.'Apple is famously tight-lipped about plans, but its invitations to Tuesday's event show an Apple logo in front of crossed searchlights and the slogan 'It's Showtime'. Sources in Hollywood, where Jobs sits on the board of Walt Disney, suggest Apple has been trying to secure deals to sell films through iTunes for around &pound;8 each. Apple added video downloads of television shows such as Lost and sporting events to its iTunes service last October.The company is facing growing competition on every front. Last week Amazon launched a digital TV and film download service in the US, and the supermarket giant Wal-Mart is in talks with Hollywood studios about a similar website. Later this year a new online music store, SpiralFrog, will undercut iTunes by offering a huge catalogue of music for free while relying on advertising for its income. MySpace, the immensely popular social networking site, also poses a threat.Three out of every four MP3 players sold are iPods, but the device could be challenged later this year by Zune, the contender from Microsoft, whose billionaire founder Bill Gates is not used to losing. Samsung is also betting heavily on its new K5, which has the option of built-in loudspeakers.But commentators argue that the iPod's status as a 21st-century fashion symbol is assured. Leander Kahney, author of The Cult of Mac, said: 'I thought they would become pass&eacute; last year but they haven't, and I don't see much sign that they will."James Beechinor-Collins, editor-in-chief of T3 consumer gadgets magazine, added: 'It's cool across the board: everyone from my seven-year-old niece to my 60-year-old uncle has one. But as the leader Apple needs to keep innovating, not resting on its laurels. We haven't seen a new product for a year, so Tuesday's announcement had better be bloody good.'Iconic electronics that reached their sell-by dateSony WalkmanLaunched:1979What is it?Portable music cassette player with headphones. Sales fell in the Nineties when portable CD and minidisc players arrived; iPod nailed the coffin shut in 2001. Sony launched an MP3 version last year.Sales:60 million sold by 1992, 4 million in the UK.Sinclair SpectrumLaunched:1982What is it?Early personal computer with up to 48K memory and built-in tape recorder/disk drive; games included Jet Set Willy and Chuckie Egg. Fell to competition from other models, particularly the Commodore 64; obsolete by the Nineties.Sales:ZX model sold 2 million worldwide. By 1985 Sinclair was producing 200,000 units a month, with 57 per cent market share.Psion personal organiserLaunched:1984What is it?Looked like a calculator with an alphabetic keyboard and was essentially an electronic diary for yuppies. Competition from Japanese companies and advanced laptop and mobile phone technology, plus the executives' must-have Blackberry, made it redundant, but Psion is still producing 'mobile computers'.Sales:Sold 1 million in first decade, but sales tailed off as it was superseded.VHS cassettesLaunched:1976What is it?JVC's Video Home System, for viewing and recording films and television. Eclipsed Sony's short-lived Betamax video format in the Eighties but, since DVDs were launched in the late Nineties, sales have collapsed.
Instead of a flimsy placard or spray-painted banner, the protester of the future will have a hi-tech video screen with stereo sound to get his message across.These startling devices will be worn on demonstrators' backpacks on Wednesday when Oxfam and Amnesty International lobby embassies in London as part of their Control Arms campaign. They want a treaty to stop weapons getting into the wrong hands.The organisations have been equipped with the technology by Daniel Langlois, who created the 3D computer effects for films such as the Harry Potter series. His Pixman 'nomadic media solutions' will show the faces of people from many countries who support the campaign.
It is a short journey from being achingly cool to technologically obsolete and it gets shorter every year. Even so, the rise and fall of the iPod sets a new standard. Only five years after its launch, sales of the foremost digital player have begun their inevitable decline. And this despite our Queen having acquired her own regal silver 6GB version.HM's acquisition may point to Apple's problem. iPods (and their annoying lower-case 'i') acquired cachet among youth by being antisocial and irritating. But you can't enrage the suit next to you on the train with de-melodised scratches of psychedelic trance if he himself is i-dialling Arctic Monkeys (as Gordon Brown claims to). Truculent teenagers should not fret. There are always new gizmos round the corner and the latest is always the most apoplexy-inducing.
It looks as though the Xbox 360 range will be expaned to three models for Christmas, with a premium bundle that includes an add-on HD-DVD drive.Retail sources have indicated toGamesIndustry.bizthat Microsoft is currently planning to price the standalone HD-DVD drive at £199 (293 Euro), and to package it with two HD-DVD movies. The sources also suggested that Microsoft will bundle the Premium console and next-generation movie player together for under £400 (589 Euro) - and that the price could even be as low as £375 (552 Euros).This is cheaper than a PlayStation 3, which would cost £425, if there were any PlayStation 3's for sale.The Nintendo Wii will be around -- I'd guess at around £160 -- but it doesn't do high-definition graphics.
How would you feel if you responded to an extremely explicit sexual advert on Craigslist and had your answer, plus any photos,published on the Web?In this case, the ad was looking for a "brutal dom muscular male 30-35 yo who is arrogant, self-centered, nasty, egotistic, sadistic who likes 2 give intense pain and discipline" so your reply might well have left out your addiction to Friends and your experience in Java programming.There's a good account of the episode atWaxy.org, and the story was picked up inFriday's Metro, in London,which reported:A 'prankster' named Jason Fortuny - a web developer in Seattle - posted an explicit advert (copied from a different city's personal ads) on the Seattle Craigslist site, posing as a submissive female seeking an aggressive, dominant man for sex. He wanted to see how many responses he could get in 24 hours.He received a grand total of 178 responses via email, many including sexually explicit photos of the men - which he then proceeded to post, in their entirety, on the web.Many of the men used their real names to contact the '27 yo sexy str8 woman'. Many used their work email addresses. Some sent phone numbers, or instant messenger screen names. Out of the 178, 145 of them sent pictures - some just of their faces, many others of ruder, less public parts of their anatomy. A good number of them admitted they were married.At least one response was from a microsoft.com address....Comment: It will be interesting to see whether there are any legal ramifications, and whether Fortuny can be sued for anything beyond copyright violation. There's also, as Metro says, "the possibility of more direct personal retribution". If you're going to bait people on Craigslist, it may not be the smartest move to target "nasty, egotistic, sadistic" people who enjoy inflicting pain.Sure, the police would know where to look for the perpetrator, but someone who has just been thrown out by his wife and/or had his reputation destroyed at work might not care.
You can now read a whole week's posts in one page by clickinghere.Highlights include:Banksy spoofs Paris Hilton CDGoogle developing eavesdropping softwareAre Macbook random shutdowns caused by a short circuit?Sony puts kibosh on PS3 Euro launchFacebook's giant blunderDigg finally reacts to the circle-jerking problemApple knows who stole your iPodLA Times explores lonelygirl15 mystery
MondayMMO documentaries in the works99 nights of frustrationTuesdayBeat up BollBattlefield reportWomen, art and gamesWednesdayMcFarlance Spawns Green MonsterStar Wars game replaces filmPS3 delayed in Europe until March 2007/a&gt;PSP download service revealed360 SeptemberThursdayTo Bully or not to BullyGames4ParentsSega composer goes to churchSony stock fallsFridayWii launch detailsFirst PS3 now Vista?
Thevirus.gr site has published results of testsmade at the end of August, using 147,184 virus samples. Kaspersky takes the top two slots, since AOL uses Kaspersky, ahead of F-Secure. Bear in mind that some programs score badly because they are not actually virus checkers: Trojan Hunter, for example.You might wonder why you are paying for Norton when AVG seems to do as good a job, and Avast is better than both. (AVG has better heuristics, as the lower table shows.)
Have a look at the Wired News article,Veni, Vidi, Wiki. Could you have improved it? Well....you missed the chance. It was "collaboratively edited" on a wiki, athttps://www.eu.socialtext.net/wired/index.cgi
Nick White, from Micorsoft's Vista launch team, has postedinformation about the new audio featureson the team blog. The features include: loudness equalization, forward and reverse bass management, speaker fill, and room correction.For input, there'smicrophone array technology, where having (say) four microphones built into a laptop provides good results without you having to use a headset. This would be useful for voice calls and conferences, and speech recognition.Ars Technicahas a summary.
Image posted by danielbeast in the lonelygirl15 forumThe LA Times has a big piece today,Mystery Fuels Huge Popularity of Web's Lonelygirl15.No one has publicly come forward to lay claim to her work, but she is starting to look as connected in Hollywood as any starlet. Three lonelygirl15-obsessed amateur Web sleuths set up a sting using tracking software that appears to show that e-mails sent from a lonelygirl15 account came from inside the offices of the Beverly Hills-based talent agency Creative Artists Agency.The apparent CAA link takes its place alongside other tantalizing pieces of evidence that lonelygirl15 is not who she claims to be: a copyright for the name obtained by an Encino lawyer, and a plot line that, leading speculation suggests, will turn out to be the lead-in to a horror movie's marketing campaign.Presumably this was written beforeA Message From the Creatorswas posted yesterday at the Lonelygirl15 forum. This says "We are filmmakers" and "we aren't a big corporation. We are just like you. A few people who love good stories."Thank you so much for enjoying our show so far. We are amazed by the overwhelmingly positive response to our videos; it has exceeded our wildest expectations. With your help we believe we are witnessing the birth of a new art form. Our intention from the outset has been to tell a story-- A story that could only be told using the medium of video blogs and the distribution power of the internet. A story that is interactive and constantly evolving with the audience.Right now, the biggest mystery of Lonelygirl15 is "who is she?" We think this is an oversimplification. Lonelygirl15 is a reflection of everyone. She is no more real or fictitious than the portions of our personalities that we choose to show (or hide) when we interact with the people around us. Regardless, there are deeper mysteries buried within the plot, dialogue, and background of the Lonelygirl15 videos, and many of our tireless and dedicated fans have unearthed some of these. There are many more to come.We still don't know who "they" are, buthttp://www.lonelygirl15.com/has the videos before YouTube, it's not just using YouTube links.Comment: The latest video,Poor Pluto, has had 311,356 views and 2,000 comments in two days. It's getting a big audience.But there are at least two interesting questions. First, willknowingit's a fake turn off people who must already have believed -- or at least very strongly suspected -- it was a fake? Second, will the story be strong enough to carry an audience if there isn't a pay-off. In other words, if lonelygirl15 is only viral marketing for lonelygirl15, not for a TV show or movie or whatever, and there's nothing else to see.....Update: The story has now appeared in Saturday's Guardian,Cult blog a fake, admit 'lonelygirl' creators
From theSan Diego Reader: Cruz Medina's Apple iPod was stolen, so why doesn't Apple want to help get it back? Well, it collects serial numbers of stolen iPods, and can recognise them if they connect to the iTunes Music Store. And if the thief buys music, it has their billing details....The story notes:An anti-Big Brother attitude runs through the technological community. On the Forum section of AppleInsider.com, a site devoted to Apple news and sales, the majority of members were against the idea of Apple's tracking iPod use. A member-user named "Ebby" had the idea of checking iPods and iTunes accounts against a list of stolen iPods but later argued, "It is when you store information on a user, tie it to an account, or can gather other information by the frequency of iPod use...that's when my problems arise." Ebby concluded, "The level of stuff they have to do to start cracking down would scare me, and I wouldn't get involved."Comment: Presumably "Ebby" also avoids using mobile phones, TiVo style recorders, credit cards and search engines, among other things.....
Dell has shown signs of weakness recently -- a 51% drop in second quarter profits a stock price down 60% from 2000, a battery recall and so on -- so it was interesting to see Michael Dell's view of the business. Knowledge@Wharton has an interview:Michael Dell: Still Betting on the Future of Online Commerce and Supply Chain Efficiencies.At the end, he spells out the company's marketing strategy, for those who aren't necessarily aware of it:The truth is that we don't go after the consumer first. We go after the largest businesses first. If you think about an entry into a country, what do you really do? Well, we don't go into a country and say that we are going to serve every customer, every place, all the time, starting today. We start with the multinationals and the largest of the local firms and we build a sales force. We build relationships and kind of get that going.Then, after some period of time, we'll move into the government sector and medium-size businesses. And then after some more time, we'll move into smaller businesses, and as a result of going after small businesses, we also attract some number of consumers, even if we are not intentionally, at that point, speaking to the consumerper se. Eventually, we will more explicitly target the consumer. Now this could take several years. But it has also resulted in a leading share in the industry and in the world and a disproportionate percentage of all of the profits in the industry. So we're going to keep doing it.Dell also points out that a lot of its market share in the US consumer market -- which has grown from 6% to 30% this century -- comes from people who were already using Dell machines in their offices.Comment: Large businesses are conservative and very cost conscious in their computer choices, and both of these are governing factors in Dell's design and manufacturing decisions. They are also becoming increasingly concerned about recycling etc, which helps explain why Dell has taken a strong lead in "green" issues.
Games trade magazineMCVhas got some interesting Wii details. According to them the console will launch in the UK sometime in the week beginning the 20th November priced around £149. Apparently stock will be "plentiful" too. Full details will be announced by Nintendo next Friday (15th Sept) but from people I've spoken too I'd say these dates and price seem about right. Of course, with PS3 not due till March 2007 the Wii will be the big gaming story over Christmas, although the decent stock situation means the usual "parents paying over the odds on eBay" stories wheeled out by the tabloids whenever a new console launches will have to be shelved. Anyway, assuming these launch details are about right, are you still interested in Wii? Tempted to do a Peter Moore andbuy one to complement your 360? Personally I've got a few issues with the system - albeit after only a small amount of time playing with it - but at that relatively low price and with no PS3 distraction it's easy to predict that the Wii will get off to a flyer this Christmas. And it will.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Yesterday's Technology section reported that, following an injunction, SanDisk was forced toremove the MP3 playersfrom its stand at the IFA show in Berlin, replacing them with photographs. However,CNet reports:But by Wednesday, attorneys for SanDisk had the order overturned, and the company's digital audio players were permitted to be displayed on the last day of the show, said company spokesman Bob Goligoski. SanDisk maintains that its MP3 players do not infringe on any patents.Sisvel continues to pursue the matter, and has appealed the decision to overturn the seizure order, company spokesman Alberto Leproni said in an e-mail on Thursday.
It looks like Europe may have to prepare itself for another technological sucker punch.According to Reuters, Microsoft is making hints that Vista may be delayed in Europe depending on theEuropean Commission's antitrust requirements. The Seattle mega-corp found itself saddled with a EURO 500m anti-trust fineback in 2004and has been scrapping with the Commission ever since. The EC has allegedly labelled Microsoft's assertion, 'misleading'.What's this got to do with games, you may ask? Well, several forthcoming titles including PC versions of Alan Wake (pictured - well, it's more interesting than a Vista logo) and Halo 2 as well as much-vaunted FPS, Crysis, are all Vista exclusives. The latest version of Microsoft's gaming API, DirectX 10, is also Vista-only. Chris Donahue, Group Manager of Windows Gaming and Graphics, has promised a 6x performance increase with DirectX 10 games - due, in no small part, to the 'backwards compatibility break' (see an interview tih Donahuehere).So, is the European Commission really to blame or is this a 'look over there, a monster!' tactic from Bill Gates and Co, allowing them to fiddle with the code a bit more, or perhaps to duck out of that whole global launch thing altogether as it doesn't seem to be panning out too well for companies at the moment.
