It is always nice when highly-paid analysts confirm the obvious, and happily, Goldman Sachs is part of the crowd that believes "IT buyers will use Linux to take advantage of lower-cost, higher-performance Intel-based servers -- and to avoid "premium-priced proprietary systems." Eventually, systems running Linux will displace systems based on Unix and RISC processors", reportsNewsFactor Network. At least at the low end of the scale, it's relatively easy to switch from a proprietary Unix on proprietary hardware to the Gnu/Linux clone of Unix running on Intel. And even if both hardware and software are technically inferior to big vendor Unix offerings, they are much cheaper and much more widely available.
One of the big problems Microsoft has with the phone industry is that Microsoft wants the phone to be the user's "platform" (yes, obviously a Microsoft platform) whereas phone operators generally want it to be a delivery vehicle under their complete control. If a phone is a platform like, say, a PC or Pocket PC then you should be able to upload your own data (form Outlook, natch), download whatever games you like, and generally install any third party applications that turn you on. Most network operators are not wild about that. They want to ensure you can only run what they allow you to run in whatever way they allow you to run it. Usually they invoke ideas of "protecting the network", which is the argument BT (or the General Post Office) used in the decades when you rented a black phone with a dial and lumped it. Microsoft added a licensing system so that a network operator could either control everything or nothing, depending on the licence requirements. (Basically, apps have to ask for permission to run.) Orange duly launched a smartphone, the SPV, based on Microsoft Smartphone software (based on PocketPC 2000, based on Windows CE).Well, since Microsoft is famous for its tight security control, the world will no doubt be shocked and amazed to discover that the system has proven defective within a few weeks of the launch.The Inquirerhas the story. Naturally there's a patch to download (Microsoft is the world leader in patches), but this has its own amusing aspect: the only people who can install a patch that disables the hack are people who have already hacked their phone. As the Inquirer says, "Eh?"
"Apple Computer has forced a developer to stop distributing a plug-in that turned Apple's iTunes music player into a peer-to-peer music sharing client. The plug-in, called iCommune, allowed iTunes users to browse the music libraries of other Macintosh PCs over a network and stream or download music from the remote libraries," reportsZDNet UK. "In a keynote speech last year, Apple chief executive Steve Jobs also demonstrated an iTunes feature strikingly similar to iCommune," says the report. In a comment to this post, Ian Betteridge argues that "The feature that Jobs demonstrated last year was auto-discovered streaming from iTunes (via Rendezvous). iCommune, on the other hand, allows music sharing. The two things are not 'strikingly similar'." However, this does not affect the fundamental problem, which is Apple's efforts to limit and control third-party developers.
The Hollywood Reporterreckons that four full-length features will be screened in Windows Media 9 (Corona) format at the Sundance film festival.
Online auction giant Ebay has again underlined its status as one of the only truly profitable dotcom companies after revealing profits more than tripled in the last year.While traditional high street retailers had a disappointing Christmas, Ebay said it had brought in £54m in the fourth quarter of 2002, up from £16m a year ago.Revenues, which come almost exclusively from the fees users pay to sell items on the site, also almost doubled to £258m from £137m in the same period last year.Hailing the results as a "a very merry e-Christmas," the company's chief executive, Meg Whitman, attributed Ebay's success to a growing acceptance in the US and internationally of online shopping for Christmas presents, boosted by national television advertising in America.Like online store Amazon, Ebay has continued to confound naysayers by increasing the revenues brought in from online shopping year after year. It is now firmly established as the number one auction site around the world, with users selling hundreds of thousands of items from antiques to cars.Last October it bought PayPal - a payment system used to facilitate credit card transactions online - in an £800m deal.PayPal brought in £45m in fees last quarter, boosted by it being more widely promoted on the Ebay site. The company continued to accumulate cash, which mounted to £700m at the end of December.Ebay finished the year with 61.7 million registered users, up from 42.4m at the end of 2001. PayPal has 23 million users.
IDC says the merged HP/Compaq took backthe top spot in PC salesin last year's fourth quarter, with 16.1% of the market against Dell's 15.7%. Apparently this was because HPaq has a bigger following among consumers, who bought PC's for Christmas. (Good job I never bet or I would have lost that one.) IDC reckons total worldwide PC shipments grew by 4% to 38.4 million units in the quarter. (Or 37.7 million PCs and 0.7 million Macs, roughly.)
IBM, the world's biggest computer company, says "its quarterly profit fell for the sixth quarter in a row, but sales rose, helped by the purchase of PriceWaterhousecoopers Consulting," reportsReuters. After charges for the PwCC take-over, income from continuing operations was $1.9 billion, down from $2.6 billion, on quarterly sales that grew by 7% to $23.7 billion. (Whoops, did Reuters really forget to put that bit in?)Over the full year, IBM's total sales slipped 2% to $81.2 billion, while profits plunged from $8.1 billion in 2001 to $5.3 billion in 2002 -- thanks mainly to the $1.5 billion invested in gobbling up PwCC. IBM's revenues peaked at $88.4 billion in 2000, and it is now back to roughly where it was in 1998.
For the first time, Microsoft has said it will pay shareholdersdividends, rather than just add to its private $43.4 billion cash mountain. Microsoft hasn't paid dividends before because it was expanding rapidly and its share price kept climbing, so shareholders could rely on profits from growth. But following the bursting of the stockmarket bubble (which followed closely behind Judge Jackson's guilty verdict against the company) not too many people are confident about Microsoft's share price doubling every year, if ever. By one of life's happy coincidences, of course, two of the biggest Microsoft shareholders are young(ish) Will Gates and Steve "Danceboy" Ballmer. Reuters has calculated thatGates should collect almost $100 million in dividends, while Ballmer is due $37.7 million. (Pay attention: it's unfair if Microsoft doesn't pay dividends, because the shareholders don't get their due; and it's unfair if Microsoft does pay dividends, because the people who actually built the company get so much of the money.)Either way, Microsoft has reported a net profit of $2.55 billion on sales that grew by 10% from $7.74 billion in the same quarter last year to a record $8.54 billion.
The ICES show in Las Vegas last week gave the world's consumer electronics dealers and journalists a sneak preview of the gadgets likely to be flying off the shelves this year. Here are 10 that caught our eye, admittedly not always for their technological innovation or sparkling performance.Handy video jukeboxSeveral companies paraded personal audio/video jukeboxes that enable users to watch recorded TV programmes on the move. Best of the bunch was the Thomson Lyra RD2780, which pairs a 20Gigabyte hard disk (capable of storing 80 hours of video) with a 3.5inch TFT LCD screen. The RD2780 can also store JPeg images and play back MP3 music. No clues as to a price or UK launch date.www.thomson.netKeyless PC keyboardIt might look like an off the wall gaming keypad but the KeyBowl Orbitouch is actually the first PC keyboard without keys or a mouse. To create letters, users twist the pair of oddly sculpted domes into different positions. At &#163;400, it is not going to replace the Qwerty just yet, but it could prove a lifesaver to those, who through injury or RSI, can't use a full keyboard.www.keybowl.comCamera key ringThese days, no self-respecting IT professional will be seen without a USB storage gadget dangling from their keyring. While we have seen MP3 players integrated in these devices, Philips is taking the USB gizmo to a new level by adding a digital camera. Coming in early summer are four models capable of shooting either 1.3 or 2.0 megapixel images. Prices are yet to be confirmed, but if the US is anything to go by, expect to pay between    &#163;100-200 depending on the model.www.philips.comPhone for the homeOlympia has become the first company to debut a cordless home phone that also features a Bluetooth transmitter - the CDP 24201. Owners can wander round their homes, chatting away on their Bluetooth wireless headsets, or, if they have a dial-up internet connection, talk and surf at the same time. Due in the UK very soon, probably with a &#163;200 price tag.www.olympiaphones.comRecharger for fiveWho says that we Brits don't come up with genius inventions? The Splash Pad is a tray-like device that can simultaneously recharge as many as five portable devices (mobile phones/PDAs). Just think - no more wondering where you left your recharging lead. Its inventors hope it will be installed in public places, too, so you'll be able to top up your battery's power while slurping on a cappuccino. The only downside is that an adaptor has to be fitted to the phone/PDA before it will work with the Splash Pad.www.splashpower.comSophisticated remoteBilled as the dashboard for the digital home, the Philips i-Pronto is one of the most sophisticated remote control systems to date. The touch screen device allows users to wirelessly manage home entertainment devices, lighting, and security cameras on its 6.4inch LCD screen via a Wi-Fi internet connection. Owners can also access websites or use the i-Pronto for listening to MP3s or looking at digital images. Sadly, it isn't due in the UK until the end of the year, when it will probably retail for around &#163;1,500.www.philips.comNetwork it on the cheapNetwork cameras, essentially webcams that can be viewed and controlled via the internet, are nothing new. US company Veo, however, caused a major splash at ICES with its Observer model, which retails for $200 -    significantly cheaper than most of its rivals. The Observer captures video, audio and still images and can be configured to automatically send an email alert with a snapshot if movement is detected. Details of the US electronics dealers that sell the Observer are available on its website.www.veo.comPerceptive recorderICES was awash with hard disk recorders for storing both audio and video. Few are as competitively priced as the Perception Digital music recorder, which has just been launched in the UK for &#163;300. It features a 20GB hard drive (you can increase this to 40GB for an extra &#163;50) which stores music from its integrated CD player in either CD (PCM) or MP3 quality.www.richersounds.comPop Idol in a boxQuite possibly the saddest product on sale in the world this year is the $150 Singing Machine/ MTV SMVG-600 karaoke system. Sure,    with its integrated monitor, CD players and speakers, it is a great partner for your karaoke video CDs. It is just we aren't entirely sure about the pop-up camera that allows would-be Will Youngs to make video recordings of their performance.www.singingmachine.comRay of light for Game BoyGame Boy Advance owners who seem to run out of battery juice at crucial gaming moments can now enlist some help from the sun. Gemini Industries showed its Solar Pak recharger, below, for the Game Boy, which converts rays into extra battery power. No UK launch plans yet, but the Americans get it in March for $29.99.www.gemini-usa.com
Bad crossingThe key to networking is to work with people's own definitions of community of interest (Social Networks, January 9). UpMyStreet works on a geographical concept that works well on public data linked to local authority boundaries. It doesn't work on ideas of "neighbourhood". The messageboards define closeness in linear distance, ignoring that most potent of London boundaries - the other side of the river.Patrick Wallacepat@pjw74og.u-net.comidTV pays outDave Birch is on the money when he identifies interactive digital TV (idTV) as a valuable ecommerce stream (Secondsight, January 9). But idTV isn't just for small value transactions, and there's more to it than piggybacking sales from ads and trailers. Home shopping channels show that people make high value purchases when the goods themselves are the topic of the show.idTV is also well suited to big-ticket items because it targets groups of buyers rather than individuals. You can sell a holiday to a family gathered in the living room, because all the "influencers" are together and focused. Sellers can also use real-time feedback to show how many people are buying a specific item, so that wavering buyers get caught in a wave of enthusiasm. "Lean back" versus "lean forward" may indeed be a false debate for idTV - but the "huddle together" model bears serious thought.Paul Maypaul.may@verista.comLatin loversThe concept of a data black hole is nothing new (Digital dark age looms, January 9). One hundred years ago, the author Thomas Hardy commemorated his musical forebears with a plaque in Stinsford Church inscribed in Latin. This was because he believed the English language "was liable to undergo great alterations" but that the more archaic language would remain unchanged!Rod Warringtonrlw@fish.co.ukJabber worksRhianna Pratchett's Working the web on instant messaging (January 9, 2003) short-changed one of the most significant IM movements:    Jabber (not "Jabba'). Aside from being multi-platform and interoperable, it is also open source and easy to deploy, as Jack Schofield correctly noted here   last year.IBM is now also on board with an emergency network for Washington DC built upon Jabber. Interested readers should check outwww.jabber.org, which includes lists of numerous Jabber projects, clients, public servers, discussion forums on controversial topics such as AOL's claimed patent on Instant Messaging(!), and clients with innovative map interfaces such asBuddy Space.Professor Marc EisenstadtChief scientist, Knowledge Media Institutehttp://kmi.open.ac.ukOffice politicsHaving forked out a load of money for a computer for my first year at uni, I found myself short of cash for buying MS Office. I set about trawling the net for an illegal download of MS Office only to stumble upon the Holy Grail of the Internet: OpenOffice.org - a free office suite! After waiting patiently for it to download, as BT has yet to upgrade my exchange, I hurriedly installed it. I can unequivocally say that it is equal to, and in some respects better than, MS Office and it is FREE! Thus having found and now used OpenOffice.org. I demand that Online make more of a big deal about its presence on the web!John Bollandj.bolland@btinternet.comSafety netsI suffer from paranoid schizophrenia and depression and find the net a gold mine of information. It is great to keep in touch with fellow sufferers through Yahoo Groups. I also do my grocery shopping and banking online. I have many friends online in the chatrooms and it is a great way to get things off your chest. If there are any mental health sufferers out there who are thinking or getting the net then I urge them to do so.Paul Hansonpaul.phanson@ btinternet.com
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:The England and Wales Cricket Board has decided to play a World Cup fixture in Zimbabwe, despite a call for a boycott from, among others, the prime minister. Should sport come before politics?Bronco:did u shave it into a gPashmina:yes but I done it backwards in the miror*LadeezMan has entered the NewsRoom*capitalistpiglet:it's true we still have diplomatic ties, but this is all abt moneyPashmina:I tried to fix it but I coudnt hi ladeezmanLadeezMan:hi. fix whatBronco:so wot do u have down there nowHost_Chris2:perhaps, but why should the ECB take a stand if the govt isnt prepared to?Pashmina:a sevenKimHowells:disgustingLadeezMan:KimHowells u still in ere?Pashmina:hes been here for a week!KimHowells:Im monitoring this chatroom for evil &amp; stupidityLadeezMan:you come to the right place m8Pashmina:Chris2 does that dont you Chris2Host_Chris2:I tryBronco:so wot does 7 meanPashmina:nothing it was a MISTAKELadeezMan:wot wasKimHowells:is it the video games that make you so stupid?*jenni@boughtledger has entered the NewsRoom*LadeezMan:is he talkin to mejenni@boughtledger:hi room! guess what I just shaved my pubic hair into a GBronco:coolKimHowells:degenerate moronBronco:personal abuse Chris2LadeezMan:jenni@ when can we see yr gucciHost_Chris2:personal insults are against permachat policy, KimHowells, even if they're satiricaljenni@boughtledger:I could post some pix on my websiteKimHowells:what a revolting notionLadeezMan:excelentPashmina:I aint showin u my 7jenni@boughtledger:I'll get on the scanner as soon as my boss goes to lunchKimHowells:pure, unadulterated, meritless filth.Bronco:but is it artHost_Chris2:let's return to the topic peoplejenni@boughtledger:don't worry it'll be artisticKimHowells:Brit Art = Shit ArtPashmina:your very angery arnt u KimHowellsKimHowells:can't any of you pinheads spell? I blame Mrs Dynamite.&gt;connection to server has been terminated ...
Silicon.com has a story about Britain's probablespam champion-- the person who gets the most unsolicited junk mail, to the tune of about 8,500 a day. The article does not provide his e-mail address, but messages of sympathy would only get lost in the morass....
Complaints about child pornography sites on the internet, such as that at the centre of the current storm over the arrest of Who guitarist Pete Townshend, have rocketed in the last two years.And many of the complaints have given police new leads about pornographers preying on children, some as young as five.The Internet Watch Foundation, a UK industry funded body set up to battle the growing problem of child pornography on the web, said that the number of complaints had risen 64% to 17,868 in 2002.The figures were released just days after Townshend was arrested on suspicion of child porn offences. The rock star admitted accessing sites in the US three or four times but claimed he was researching for a book.And today the husband of Ireland's best-known TV chef, Ballymaloe Cookery School's Darina Allen, was sentenced for possessing images of child porn on his computer.The IWF said the rise could be put down to a combination of an increase in the number of sites, particularly pay-per-view sites based in Russia, and a growing awareness of the problem among the public.Of almost 18,000 complaints to the IWF, more than half accurately reported potentially illegal content. This is a rise of almost 1,700% over the past four years.Of these, 3,743 were passed on the national crime intelligence unit and Scotland Yard - an increase of 27% on the previous year. And 2,753 were passed to other bodies overseas as part of a growing effort to co-operate internationally in tracking and closing down offending sites.For example, the IWF revealed how a tip-off to the exploited child unit led it to track down a suspect who posted illegal images onto a Yahoo! group and other sites before reporting him to New Jersey police.The suspect, a student at Kean University in New Jersey, was arrested earlier this month on charges of distributing child pornography.The job of watchdogs and police has been made even harder as those behind child porn rings turn to eastern Europe and Asia to host their sites, shown by the proportion of offending sites based in Russia almost doubling from 10% of the total to 18% during the past year.Many industry observers believe the figures, which will be released officially later this month, show the government is pouring more resources into tackling online child pornography, but more money is needed to cope with the complex and time consuming investigations required.Although the IWF, which gets funding from industry giants such as AOL, Freeserve and Cable &amp; Wireless, as well as a grant from the EU, has been lauded for the job it is doing, critics say it needs further resources to avoid being overwhelmed by the volume of complaints.The dangers of paedophilia on the internet, from websites hosting illegal material to abusers using chat rooms to "groom" potential victims, have been afforded acres of media coverage over the past year.Operation Ore, the largest inquiry into child pornography undertaken in the UK, has already led to more than 1,300 people arrested as part of the police investigation, including judges, teachers, doctors, care workers, soldiers and more than 50 police officers.Two former ministers are also understood to be on a list of suspects obtained from a list of credit card details seized from a US based site and rock star Townshend, who vehemently denies being a paedophile and claims he looked at the site for research purposes, was arrested by police earlier this week.Operation Ore is the British end of the US justice department's Operation Avalanche, which was sparked when the US postal service closed down the now notorious Landslide Promotions gateway, which is thought to have been used by more than 75,000 people worldwide in the late 1990s.In August last year a Texan computer consultant, Thomas Reedy, was sentenced to a total of 1,335 years for running the internet child porn empire, which had a turnover of more than £870,000 a month.Records of up to 7,300 UK-based credit card numbers were passed to the national crime squad and individual forces by the FBI in the spring of 2002, and there have been a series of raids and computer seizures in Britain since May.
It is one of the most isolated places in Europe. At the northern tip of the European Union, Norrbotten might be sparsely populated but it is far from being cut off from the latest developments in technology. Sweden's frozen land of midday moon and northern lights is home to some of the most connected in the continent. Necessity is turning the people of northern Sweden into wireless pioneers.It is -18 C, mid-afternoon, although the sun has long sunk beneath the horizon. At the invitation of the Invest in Sweden Agency, a government-funded body, 17 journalists from Europe, Japan and the US are racing 10 miles across the frozen landscape on snowmobiles to an unlikely press conference - in a wooden ski hut in the middle of nowhere for a demonstration that video conferencing can be achieved north of the Arctic circle.Cities such as London and New York might be just getting to grips with the wireless internet, but up here in the region of Norrbotten, which includes historic Lapland, society has already learned to depend on it. The small communities in the frozen north are too remote to string thousands of miles of cable to them. So the internet is fired through the air, and mobile phone coverage is as good as in any urban area."We can work together irrespective of distance and weather conditions. Even when the snow is five feet deep, wireless communications mean that you can still work," says Kari Marklund, governor of Norrbotten. "We have the highest number of internet users at home after Stockholm," he adds with noticeable pride.There is not much profit in it. But the Swedes, known for a commitment to social democracy, insist on an inclusive version of the information revolution. Compare, for example, government attitudes to the next generation of mobile phone networks.  Licences for 3G were awarded to the highest bidder in the UK and bagged &#163;22bn for the Exchequer. In Sweden, the operators who could provide the largest coverage won the licence and were charged a nominal fee. Good news for this desolate Arctic region.Sweden has a highly developed network culture. It has more mobile phones than people. Nearly a quarter of its gross domestic product comes from IT, and the sector employs 10% of the country's workforce. A recent IDC/ World Bank survey ranked Sweden as the most highly developed information society for the third year running.But in what way is wireless technology transforming the economy and the society of the people who live around the Arctic circle? Timber and mining have long been Lapland's traditional industries. Kiruna is an old mining town and with a wireless network 1,000 metres underground, it is the unlikely recipient of breakthroughs in wireless technology. LKAB Mine has shed half    its workforce over the past decade but kept output level by investing heavily in automation. "Old industries like mining are always thought of as being basic. But just because what we produce is low-tech, how we produce it doesn't have to be," says Martin Ivert of LKAB.In Kiruna, miners no longer wear helmets, but sit at computer monitors piloting driverless loaders, cutting the ore not with a pick but with the click of a mouse. "There's no dirt nor darkness, and far less danger," says Ivert. Automation in the mine is not exactly new - remote control trains date back to the 70s - but what is new is the underground wireless network. The Swedish operator Telia and Electrobit installed the network two years ago. The mine has developed something called the "wireless underground communications system", which sends real-time audio and video at speeds comparable to 3G.Norrbotten has an ageing population, and health care is especially expensive because of the large distances. Wireless technology is now being deployed to reduce costs. Eislab, a Swedish company attached to Lule&#229; University, is developing a form of telemedicine it says could save the state a fortune. Eislab makes sensors so small and light that they can be used every day to read patients' vital signs. Using Bluetooth short range wireless technolgy, the information can be uploaded to the internet via mobile phone. Back at the hospital, health care professionals then monitor their patients.  Far-fetched stuff, maybe. But the company is working on a similar technology that could administer electric pulses to revive a heart attack patient hundreds of miles away.More than 330km to the south of Kiruna lies Lule&#229;, the biggest city in northern Sweden. It is home to former Swedish hockey champions Lule&#229; Hockey, which has been experimenting with wireless technology to broadcast games on the internet.  Many fans live hundreds of miles away and can rarely make it to games. Special cameras have been mounted in the players' helmets, and fans have been able to track the games on the net and on personal digital assistants, selecting which player they want to watch.Back out in the cold, a rider on a sledge pulled by huskies speeds past, reins in one hand and a mobile phone in the other. Even in the depths of the frozen forests, miles from the nearest civilisation, you get a clear signal on your mobile."This is an area of large distances where people live very separated," says Hak&#229;n Ericsson, head of research and development at Ericsson. "If you're out on your snowmobile and you break down, you need to call for help. We have built very good coverage here. "Think about it, it could save your life," he says.
Sony's hugely successful PlayStation 2 games console has now shipped 50 million units, reportsIndie Magazine. This includes 10 million in the past four months.
Major entertainment companies celebrated a significant victory yesterday as the US supreme court upheld longer copyright protections for cartoon characters, songs, books and other creations worth billions of dollars.The ruling, for which organisations such as the Walt Disney Company had lobbied hard, represented an equally significant defeat for internet publishers and those who wanted to use old books and likenesses of Mickey Mouse and other older creations without paying royalties.In a case brought by Eric Eldred, who was attempting to build an online library of free books, the court ruled by 7-2 that Congress had the right to repeatedly extend copyright protection.Mr Eldred argued that the 1998 Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act, granting a 20-year extension to existing copyright protection, violated free speech rights.Hundreds of thousands of books, films and songs were close to being released into the public domain when the extension, named after the late California congressman, was introduced. Justices said it was neither unconstitutional nor a violation of free speech rights.     "We are not at liberty to second-guess congressional determinations and policy judgements of this order, however debatable or arguably unwise they may be," Justice Ruth Bader said.However, justices John Paul Stevens and Stephen Breyer argued that the court was making a mistake. "The serious public harm and virtually non-existent public benefit could not be more clear," Justice Breyer said.He added that copyright holders stand to collect around $400m more from older creations each year under the extension, and said the limit on the use of information "threatens to interfere with efforts to preserve our nation's historical and cultural heritage and educate children".Justice Stevens said the court was "failing to protect the public interest in free access to the products of inventive and artistic genius".Had the copyright ruling not been upheld, entertainment companies including Disney and AOL Time Warner would have suffered huge losses. The latter said that the copyrights of classic films such as Casablanca, The Wizard of Oz and Gone With the Wind would have been threatened.Protection for the version of Mickey Mouse portrayed in Disney's earliest films  would also have been at risk of expiring.     The ruling will affect film studios and the heirs of authors and composers, who will continue to receive royalty payments for many more years. It means that orchestras and church choirs must continue to pay fees to perform some pieces."The winners are folks who hold valuable copyrights. The losers are everyone else. Everyone is going to pay more for things that they would have had cheaply or for free," said Erik S. Jaffe, a Washington attorney who filed arguments in the case.But the president of the Motion Picture Association of America, Jack Valenti, claimed that copyrights encourage the creation and preservation of works, describing the ruling as "a victory not solely for rights holders, but also for consumers everywhere".Disney spokeswoman Michele Bergman said that it "ensures copyright owners of the proper incentive to originate creative works for the public to enjoy".The constitution allows Congress to give authors and inventors the exclusive right to their works for a limited time. It has repeatedly lengthened the terms of copyrights over the years.The upheld 1998 extension means that copyright lasts for 70 years after the death of a work's creator, with works owned by corporations under protection for 95 years.
Today is Thursday, so Online isonline. However, you really need a printed copy, too, for IDC's table of the top 10 computer companies by unit sales, included in Neil McIntosh's cover story aboutApple. (Usually IDC only makes public the top 5 which, of course, no longer includes Apple.)Not included:IDCputs total personal computer sales at 134 million in 2001, rising to 136 million last year, with a projected 147.5 million this year.
Lufthansa yesterday started public trials of an in-flight internet service between Frankfurt and Washington. See reports byIDG Newsand, from earlier, theBBC. I did get an e-mail-cum-press release from Hans Rieger, Director LoB Transportation, Telecommunication and Media at Fujitsu Siemens Computers GmbH which said it was sent from the first flight, but from the headers, I can't see any way to tell. Fujitsu Siemens is lending passengers the wireless notebook PCs used on the plane.
Andrew Orlowski has an interestingstoryon the Register today about the mystery of Dell's Linux drive. He's following up an equally interestingInfoworld interviewwith Michael Dell, in which he appears to resort to odd hand signals as he attempts to explain why, only weeks after his company announced investments in desktop Linux a couple of years back, Dell's Linux business unit was shut down.Dell doesn't confirm or deny that Microsoft twisted his company's collective arm to make sure it didn't aid the Linux cause too much. But Orlowski reminds us how upset Microsoft was about Dell's plans to invest in Linux at the time, as shown in adepositiongiven to the courts by Steve Ballmer last year. When Ballmer talks of showing "the beauty of what we do" to Dell, we can hazard a guess as to just how hard that point was made. The threat of a big jump in Windows license charges, at least, would have resonated at a PC maker that operates in the most cut-throat part of the PC market.Given the evidence we've seen in the past of Microsoft's bullying of partners, and other anticompetitive behaviour when it comes to killing off potential rivals, we could safely conclude they used every trick in the book to make sure the PC maker got back in line. And if Dell could be bullied by MS, you don't need to be a genius to see how other companies, and other innovations in the market, have been nixed by the software giant. This is what abusive monopolies do. And Dellstillwon't talk about it.One point: Orlowski adds that Dell "confusingly" refers to still selling Linux options, although they are "extremely hard to find". I found apagedescribing the Linux options in under 60 seconds by typing Linux into the Dell.com search engine, although by the other way of navigating - click by click - it is harder to find.
Two MIT students have found that 74% of discarded or second-hand hard drives still contain recoverable data based on an analysis of 158 disk drives bought on eBay, at computer stores, salvage companies, and swap meets, reports Infoworld. A third of the drives that had been reformatted still contained recoverable data. "Financial log files on one drive yielded what appeared to be 2,868 credit card numbers in addition to bank account numbers, dates of transactions and account balances. The students believe that the drive came from an automatic teller machine in Illinois and that no effort was made to remove any of the financial information on the drive prior to resale."APcovers the same story and has a photograph.
They started queueing at 2.30am. By 8.30am the line continued for hundreds of yards, snaking down an escalator, under a      road, up another escalator and along the other side of the street. The first MacWorld Expo of the year had arrived at the      Moscone Center in San Francisco. And chief executive Steve Jobs' keynote speech was the hottest ticket in town.Early      every January, thousands of exhibitors and more than 80,000 Apple users flock to San Francisco to experience everything      from scented screen wipes to high-powered training sessions. Most importantly, for those patiently queuing, Apple itself      tells its users what happens next.In a two-hour presentation, Jobs will nearly always unveil new hardware and software to      help make that vision reality. This is the future, happening now and packaged into a neat, beautifully choreographed      performance by a master salesman. Mac fans lap it up.Jobs' image is beamed around the world via satellite to Apple stores      that stay open late, and to user groups who tune in and throw special parties. Last week, watching the line grow round a      distant corner and out of sight, it was easy to reflect that few companies enjoy such an intimate relationship with its      customers. Apple is a rare beast: a computer company that makes its own operating system software and its own hardware      to run it on.But that also makes Apple users unusually dependent on one company. In the PC world, Microsoft holds a      monopoly on desktop operating systems. But should market leader Dell start producing poor computers, there are plenty of      other PC makers ready to fill the breach. If Intel takes its eye off the ball, AMD can take over. In the Mac world, there's      just Apple. That's why, with everyone squeezed into the Moscone ballroom and the doors shut against the hundreds still      wanting in, Jobs' new product announcements are greeted with whoops and screams more suited to a boy band concert.This      year, Jobs promised "two keynotes' worth" of announcements, and delivered. Apple's biggest laptop yet, and its smallest      ever, were unveiled. There was a revamp of the already impressive "iApps" -applications to help connect digital devices such      as cameras and camcorders, and organise, edit and share digital snaps and home movies.To the delight of the crowd, Apple      even appeared to take on Microsoft with two new programs: an impressive £79 presentation package called Keynote, and a      free, fast web browser called Safari. Then there was a cheaper, cut-down version of Final Cut Pro, the professional video      editing package, called Final Cut Express. There was the faster 802.11g wireless networking standard being plumbed into its      machines. And to wrap it all up, Jobs unveiled a $499 Burton Amp ski jacket, which has a special pocket for the iPod music      player and has controls sewn into the sleeve (iPod not included).By any measure, it was an impressive array of technology -      and fashion. Some Mac fans were hoarse by the time they left the hall. But as the dust settled around the new      announcements, and the crowds raced downstairs to the show hall to see the new kit up close, some observers were      pointing out that important questions about Apple remained unanswered.Take, for instance, the questions posed a day      earlier by Merrill Lynch researchers, who advised their clients to sell their Apple stock. Those shares sit around the $15      mark today, and Apple has $11 a share in cash, but Merrill Lynch raised eyebrows by suggesting the company's stock was      still expensive.Worse, it could get lower, they suggested, if Apple's financials sport more red ink in the next 12 months."Although Apple makes great products," they wrote, "in our view the new product pipeline looks skimpy and we expect      continued market share losses."The issue of market share remains Apple's most pressing concern. Five years ago,      according to research company IDC, Apple's operating system was on 7% of the world's new desktop computers. IDC's most      recent figures showed this to be just above 3%, and numbers for the end of 2002 are likely to show that figure fall again.At the same time, the Linux operating system is expected to overtake Apple's Mac OS to occupy second spot to Windows in      the desktop market. If you include free versions of Linux, it probably overtook Apple a year or two ago. Nothing in Steve      Jobs' keynote last week is likely to do anything to turn around Apple's decline, says Michael Hillmeyer, the influential Merrill      Lynch vice president who co-wrote the damning report."The products they introduced were excellent looking products," he      says. "They have a great management - Steve Jobs is a visionary in the personal computer market. That's not a problem.      But they have to find a way to compete against the Wintel juggernaut."The prime way to compete for consumers, he      suggests, would be to make cheaper computers. With the economy struggling, shoppers are looking at price rather than      features. If you went shopping last weekend at PC World, you could have picked up a bottom-of-the-range eMachine with an      Intel Celeron processor, running at 1.7GHz with 128MB of memory, a 40GB hard drive and complete with 15in CRT monitor,      for £499 including VAT.At Apple.com, the cheapest Mac is the all-in-one first version iMac, running at 600MHz, with 15in      CRT screen, 128MB memory and 40GB hard drive. It would cost you £649, including VAT. You might be able to do more with      the iMac out the box, as it would come pre-loaded with its digital media applications, and it certainly looks much nicer than      its PC rival. But analysts think consumers are not being swayed by features, or looks. Apple might want to be the Mercedes      of the personal computer world, but computer buyers are generally not willing to back that notion."Maybe eventually it      would be possible to occupy a similar position &#91;to Mercedes&#93;," says Hillmeyer. "But right now the problem is that prices on      PCs keep going down so much it is really hard to make money. You could say it would be fine if Apple could settle into that      kind of market share if they could make money doing it. But they are not making money doing it right now."And, as you can      see from our shopping example -1.7GHz versus 600MHz - the growing gulf between PC and Mac speeds is also a factor. At      the other end of the scale, Intel has topped the 3GHz barrier and Apple's best PowerPC chips still languish at just over 1GHz      each."The PowerPC chips do have some advantages in graphics," says Hillmeyer, "but the perception in the market is that      the Apple systems are not competitive."Apple used to write this off as the "megahertz myth". Because of the way the      PowerPC chip works, argues Apple, their chips get more done for every tick of the processor clock. Indeed, Apple claims      that for some specific tasks - like running Photoshop filters - top-end Apples are faster than top-end Intel-powered PCs.That may be true. But a user switching from a recent PC to a similar vintage Mac may raise a sceptical eyebrow when they      notice a quite clear difference in speed for popular tasks like web browsing. For now, with faster chips still not due until      the end of this year, Apple is attempting to paper over the cracks. It continues to optimise its slick operating system, OS      X, to run faster.And its new web browser, Safari, provides a much snappier experience for web surfers. It has been      assumed that Apple wanted to reduce its dependence on Microsoft by producing its own web browser - now a vital part of      any computer's toolkit. But, in a briefing after Jobs' keynote, Apple's Mac OS X product manager Ken Bereskin barely      mentioned the Redmond giant. He said Apple's aim had simply been to create a browser that was "super fast".Why launch a      browser now, then? "This was a really natural solution for us," he says. "There was nothing on the market that delivered      what we felt our customers deserved. There is plenty of room for innovation here." Bereskin also points to the quiet      unveiling of X11 for Mac OS X, a version of the X Window windowing program that makes it easier for programs on the Unix      operating system (popular in education and business) to be run on the Mac.Asked how many appli cations this could bring to      the Mac platform, he smiles, and observes there are more than 12,000 programs on one popular Unix website alone. If they      were all to appear on Mac OS, the platform's software library would increase dramatically in size overnight. But for senior      IDC analyst Dan Kuznetsky, none of this is likely to tackle Apple's biggest problems. Apple is simply appealing to the wrong      people, he says, especially when attempting to sell to business."How many people are running X11 applications?," asks      Kuznetsky. "How many consumers are running X11 applications? How many organisations are running X11 applications as the      way they are doing business primarily?"He says any attempt Apple makes to appeal to technical people - "Dilberts" he calls      them, after the cartoon - are unlikely to sell many more computers. Research shows a shift in the way business buys its      computers. "Eight years ago and earlier, the predominant was the technical person. They would make the decision on      technical merit," he says."Starting seven years ago and accelerating every year since, the decision maker is largely a      business person. They are making a decision based on business merit."Dilbert no longer makes the decision. Now Dilbert's      boss does. So if you make a presentation that appeals to Dilbert, will Dilbert's boss get to hear about it? Probably not."Before this year's MacWorld show, there were strong rumours this would be the last time Jobs would deliver a keynote at      this event. Apple is contemplating moving to product announcements at smaller events, or even one-off media-only events,      perhaps realising that preaching to the converted - to the Dilberts - is a waste of its marketing effort. This year, could      Apple resolve to do things differently from now on? It seems likely. The quality of its future life could depend on it._ or rotting apple?A rosy view of the X11...Steve Jobs' MacWorld keynote, although a classic of its type, missed out one of this week's more thrilling announcements from Apple: its new X11 support. For while the lustworthy 17 inch TiBook will gather headlines as big as its screen, with one download Apple has made it possible to run masses of Linux, and other Unix, applications directly on the Mac OS X desktop.Here's how it works: computer programs are written in languages designed more for the programmer than the computer. For the machine to run them, the source code must first be "compiled" - with a program called a   "compiler" - into something the machine can understand. Exactly what comes out of the compiler depends on a few things: the processor the computer is using being the main one. This is why, at its most basic, a program for an Apple won't run on a Windows-based PC.The other reason, and what X11 support addresses, is that the basic operating system provides hooks for the programmer to tie her program into. Common actions, like putting something on the screen or telling where the mouse is, are dealt with by code built into the operating system. Such interfaces save time and effort for the pro grammer, and are far more efficient and less messy, than every program dealing with the screen independently. Of course, compiling a program designed around the hooks within one system on another will not work. Linux - and many other Unix - programs are designed to work with an interface called X11. By writing X11 support for OS X, Apple is encouraging people to compile X11 programs on Macs.You can do this yourself, the hard way, or download a program that helps automate this called Fink. Everything, from The Gimp - a very powerful image manipulation program -to the open   source Outlook alternative, Evolution, can now run on Macs just as well as their target Linux boxes. Thousands of programs, many freely downloadable, many industrial strength, and all originally written for other systems, are now for the taking, and work very well indeed. This article, for example, is being written on a TiBook with the X11 version of OpenOffice.org, the free open source office suite. It's easy, it's powerful, and it's free. Keep your TiBook, I'm off for some more downloading.Ben Hammersleywww.apple.com/macosx/x11www.opendarwin.orghttp://fink.sf.net
Dan Gillmor has a strong piece on the so-called Sonny Bono act, theCopyright Term Extension Act, which has extended copyright over works that should now be in the public domain. There Supreme Court's 7-2 ruling is reportedhere., and there's also aneditorial.
Frank Zappa once warned: "Watch out where those huskies go." Now you can with mobile dog radar. Designed to help Finns keep track of their hunting dogs, dog radar is one of the more bizarre location-based services.Dogs wear a small mobile device and the hunters carry a Benefon mobile phone with built-in GPS and software from Pointer Solutions. If the dog goes missing, its exact position, bounced off a satellite, will be displayed on a map on the mobile's screen. The hunter can also listen to the dog, which could be up to 100 kilometres away.Tracking services such as this are among the more successful location-based services, according to Jeremy Green, head of wireless research at London-based consultancy Ovum. KTF of South Korea offers child-tracking and OAP-tracking. Of its 5,000 customers, 20% have senile dementia.Telia, the Swedish mobile operator, has also had success with Position X, a location-based televised game. Best described as a cross between Big Brother and Arnold Schwarzenegger's Running Man, groups of TV celebrities hunt down volunteer fugitives. Viewers with mobiles can text the position of either hunters or fugitives to either group and can also make use of Friend Finder, a location-based service that tells you where other mobile users are.The five-week TV4 show aired last summer became the third most popular TV show in Sweden, and helped to increase Telia's location-based revenues.Orange plans to launch a friend-finder service in the UK this year and already offers one in Switzerland.Michel Gaudreau, head of strategy at Orange's multimedia services division, says: "From the second quarter, if you use our Find My Nearest service to ask for the nearest cash machine, it will show   you a map with where you are and how to get there."Gaudreau says of its 60,000 points of interest, restaurants are looked up most often (45%), nightclubs come second with 11%, hotels 7%, with banks, casinos, and train stations 4% each.Vodafone offers some third-party location services such as the Mobile Commerce Metro Guide, the TimeOut information service, and AA Roadwatch for traffic information. It is also working on a taxi hailing service called Zingo and has a Find and Seek service.An appealing Virgin Mobile service is Gone11. You type in Gone11, followed by the postcode you are in to 07786 202021, and it texts back with bars that are open after 11pm in that area.City Poems in Leeds plans   to create a portrait of the city of Leeds created by locals. From February 14, it will provide Poem Points around the city at bars, buses, at the Leeds General Infirmary, the Corn Exchange shopping centre, the local prison and the city art gallery and at its sponsor First Direct's Leeds call centre.Mobile owners will be able to text the number of each Poem Point to 07919 315556, and get back a text-message poem about that place.The initiative is backed by Centrifugal Forces, a project combining literature and new media, and Andrew Wilson, a text-message poet and one of the judges in Online's text poetry competition.Two weeks ago, Online reported on another community initiative,    Upmystreet.com, which provides information on local areas - by postcode - and puts local people in touch with each other. This can be accessed from a mobile via Wap at wap.upmystreet.com .But there are limitations to the current generation of location-based services. Jeremy Green says that: "A genuinely successful location-based service would be: attracting a significant number of users; used frequently by the user base; and be generating significant revenues."Ovum is not aware of any currently deployed location-based service that is meeting these criteria."
Metroid FusionGame Boy Advance 	&#163;29.99 Nintendo	 *****Lara Croft might have become the best-known female games character, but Samus Aran of the Metroid series could have kicked the balloon-breasted one from here to next week. Metroid   Fusion on the GBA follows the classic gameplay of the previous games and picks up the storyline from where Super Metroid left off.This time, Samus is sent   back to planet SR388 to investigate a research laboratory that has been infested with a virulent mutating virus known as X. Samus has only just recovered from being infected, which has left her not only immune to future X attacks, but also with a suitably large grudge.The fast-paced combat and smooth controls work well. The amount of repetitive jumping, firing and climbing shenanigans you'll need to do as you explore the laboratory will tax even the most agile of digits. But it's not entirely a   gung-ho blaster: there is a fair amount of puzzle-solving involved, aided by Samus' morph ball mode, which allows her to curl up and roll through small spaces.The graphics are slick, but it is worth investing in a clip-on light. This is one of the best platform shooters available on the GBA, but if you find it on the short side, then Metroid Prime for the GameCube will be out here in March and the two platforms can be linked to play the original NES Metroid.  (RP)Asheron's Call2 PC £29.99 (includes one month's play - $12.95 for subsequent months) Turbine/Microsoft ***The      constant changes make reviewing a massively multiplayer online role-playing game akin to appraising a half-read book. The      launch is only the beginning, as new content, bug fixes and general updates mean such games are in a continual state of      flux.Since its launch last month, Asheron's Call 2 has been no different. Following on from the likes of Anarchy Online, AC2      lets you create a character and then help them grow, or "level", by killing monsters and solving quests. Social and group      interaction is vital, with more experience points - the currency needed to level - gained by grouping with like-minded      characters.With all these games there is a steep learning curve and players need to spend considerable time with their      character to see the benefit. AC2 offers numerous quests allowing for shorter bursts of play, while an extensive tutorial      mode offers some welcome handholding. Graphically, too, this is a real achievement, with mountains, forests and rivers      providing a genuine sense of otherworldliness.As with any online game, your actual experience is dependent on the other      players and the state of the servers. On both counts AC is successful, although a small number of players means this may      change. But, despite the introduction of crafting skills - enabling players who don't wish to fight the opportunity to level by      creating weaponry for others - there is still too much emphasis on incessant combat. At the moment, Asheron's Call 2      doesn't offer anything new. (GH)Red Faction IIPlayStation 2	&#163;29.99 Volition/THQ	****Specialist first-person shoot-'em-up (FPS) developers have always wanted to allow players to blow up the scenery as well as the baddies: mainly    because it was a technological conundrum.Red Faction was the first FPS to allow that, but it was not particularly successful. Partly, at least, because players spent too much time blasting holes in floors, falling down them and getting stuck.  Developer Volition, clearly, indulged in much head-scratching before creating its    sequel, and the result is an FPS that does not leave you raging at your PlayStation 2.By the standards of console FPS games (still inferior to PC FPS games), Red Faction II is rather good. Whenever you must blow up a bit of scenery to advance, you are given plenty of warning.  The control system is more precise than most (with the  exception of Halo, TimeSplitters 2 and the revered GoldenEye). And the plot, which feels as though it could have been lifted from a comic-book, is at least the equal of any of the aforementioned: you play one of a gang of nanotechnology-enhanced warriors seeking to eliminate their erstwhile boss in a future world.The best aspects are the weaponry (the control system allows you to lob grenades behind distant enemies, then drive them back using small-arms fire), the enemy artificial intelligence and the variety. You might find yourself controlling the weapons system of a helicopter gunship.The experience should provide PS2-owning shoot-'em-up fans with enough of a fix to keep them happy through the dearth of releases that always comes this time of year. (SB)
Pass it onIs there a charity that takes old PCs, renovates them and sends them to undeveloped countries? I have a 486SX I want to lose. Dudley TurnerJack Schofield replies:Computer Aid International, based in North London, does that. However, it has "a strong preference for working Pentiums" (or equivalents). There are many other schemes, such asUrban Mines, which is not on Computer Active magazine's useful list of recycling options atwww.computeractive.co.uk.The Guardian backs theTools for  Schools scheme, which recycles "Pentiums with multimedia facilities and Internet capability". It also takes PowerMacs and iMacs.USB upgradeI recently got a Bluetooth phone and want to synchronise with my PC which uses Windows 98. It seems I need to upgrade to 98SE for the USB dongle to work. Should I upgrade to Windows Me/2000/XP?Paddy McCarthyJS:Several readers have run into this problem with USB peripherals such as cameras and phones. Microsoft added support for USB serial communications ports with the second release of Windows 95 in 1996, and increased it in Windows 98, but if manufacturers target Windows 98SE (Second Edition) there is not much you can do. It is not worth paying full retail for Windows 98SE, or an upgrade version, now: it would be better to go for Windows Me or, preferably, XP. However, Windows Me will be noticeably slower and, depending on the specification, XP may refuse to install. You can download the Windows XP Upgrade Advisor - which XP uses to check your PC before it installs - fromwww.microsoft.com/windowsxpbut it is about 50MB. Microsoft's minimum    requirement for XP is a 233MHz processor, 64MB of memory and 1.5GB of hard drive space. Me will get by with that but XP is not practical without twice the power - I'd suggest 128MB and a 450MHz Pentium II or better. Otherwise it would be better to look for a discounted Windows SE (Amazon has copies for &#163;39.99) or a second-hand copy.CD nowIn the last column, you told David Hooley it would be better to copy large files on to a CD-R disc in standard CD-Rom or CD-Rom XA mode (ie not using "packet writing" software). Why? I use an R/RW drive to back up all my main data files, using it like a floppy drive. Is there something wrong with my approach?Geoff RobinsonJS:Yes: you should be able to rely on a back-up and "packet writing" (which splits data into small pieces) is less reliable. It also reduces the capacity of the CD, and you may not be able to read the CD in another drive. Both are minus points for a back-up solution. (If the CD has not been closed or "finalized", it can only be read in another packet writing CD-RW drive which uses a compatible format.) Packet writing or "drive letter access" software is convenient for some purposes, but make    sure it uses the UDF (Universal Disk Format) file system. Most do, now. But for back-ups, bulk CD-Rs cost about 30p each. This is cheaper than trying to recover lost data.Lop chopMy browser now defaults tohttp://ao.lop.com. When I change it to my home page, this site overrides it. I have McAfee virus screening and internet security is high and I cannot find a cookie.Richard HarveyJS:Your browser has been hi-jacked by Lop, which is sending you to a pay-per-click portal.Lop.comoffers files to uninstall the home page hi-jacker andtoolbar, if present. Programs such asLavasoft's Ad-awarecan also remove various Lop parasites. For more information, seewww.spywareinfo.com/articles/lop.* Richard reported back saying he foundPest Controlthe best: "Easy to understand, efficient and only $19. It found 39 'pests' on my PC and 74 on my wife's."Backchat* My apologies to Microsoft. As Bill Rubin points out, the problem with switching identities introduced into Outlook Express 6 by the SP1 Service    Pack was fixed by the Cumulative Update for Outlook Express 6.0 SP1 posted on October 30. Search Google for Q331923 (OLEXP: An Overview of the Cumulative Update for Outlook Express 6.0 SP1) or go tohttp://support.microsoft.com.* Peter Wood asked about typing French accents in Outlook Express. Readers responded with numerous additions and alternatives to my suggested keystroke approach, including copy-and-paste from French websites. Colin Cain and family bought a French keyboard on holiday: "We simply plug it in, change the language setting and just type away." Nicholas Spice from the London Review of Books sent in anLRB mousemat"which doubles as a cross-platform keyboard reference for writers and editors and designers".Peter Hecker uses a free program calledAllChars for Windows: "This runs in the background and can insert any ANSI character just by typing an easily remembered pair of keys, preceded by Ctrl".Peter Cave's company, Resource Education, sells AccentPad software that "hides itself away until needed and then shows a list of available characters in the selected language", such as French, German, Spanish and    Welsh. It costs &#163;17.63 inc VAT (www.resourcekt.co.ukor 01509 672222).Dr Warren Kovach's Kovach Computing Services offersAccent Composer softwarefor a similar price. But the most common suggestion came from John Gregory, Caroline Higgitt, Philip Andrew and others. That was to type the message in Microsoft Word and either paste it into OE, or click the Email icon (or select File| Send To|Mail Recipient). Lesley Le Claire suggested installing French alongside English in Microsoft Office Language Settings (in Start|Programs|Microsoft Office Tools). From Word 98 onwards, you can also go to Tools|Set Language, then just let Word's spelling checker add diacritics wherever it likes.
How important is your computer to your lifestyle?What with emails and scripts going back and forth it has become very important. I think the computer has actually made me a better writer - my emails are far more entertaining than they ever were! It's taken over from letter writing for me as I'm really into emailing and text messaging.Mac or PC?I have both - although I think I prefer the PC  &lt;A HREF="http://www.csd.toshiba.com" TARGET="_NEW"(Toshiba Satellitebecause I can open attachments on it, which I can't do on myiMac! I don't use broadband yet but I should. At the moment, I still try to limit the amount of time I spend online because the phone bills are huge. Broadband seems to be the way to go.Ever considered doing comedy exclusively for the web?Not really - I don't see the point just yet. Some comedians have really good websites. George Carlin has a lot of his routines and a daily message on his sitewww.georgecarlin.com, which keeps it interesting. I guess live webcasts are a possibility but you still can't beat live comedy.Spam?I've no problem with it, really - I can always delete it! It's always nice to see your Inbox full of 50 emails - even if you have to spend 10 minutes deleting 49 of them! For that brief moment where you feel loved I can live with that!Gadgets?I have one of the newSony-Ericsson T68i mobiles, which is almost like a computer. Every day I find something new on it. I don't have picture messaging but it does have a sound recorder and I spend a lot of time recording silly songs or anything else that's in my brain.Has SMS messaging been one of the big successes?Definitely. I love all the text jargon that's evolved. I also like the fact that most phones only allow you to write 160 characters per message as the whole challenge is then to say everything you want to say within that limit. That teaches you economy, which is very important in comedy. Wise people are also always more economical with their speech!What's the best thing about the net?I'm Iranian and I have an old school friend who's Yugoslavian, so when we email each other we both try to find the most obscure reference to our past. So I searched the net to find the scorer of Yugoslavia's goal against Spain in the 1982 World Cup then sent my friend an email with "Gudelj" in the subject line. From the moment it popped into my head until I found it on the web took literally about 90 seconds. It is amazing to have that amount of information at your disposal.Favourite sites?www.chortle.co.uk,www.chelseafc.com&#183;For details of Omid Djalili's tour dates visit:www.boundandgaggedcomedy.com/
Most websites are currently much too difficult to use for some sections of the population. They include people who have disabilities, are elderly, or have low literacy levels - users who together make up a large percentage of the population.Of course, you might say that websites are too difficult for everybody, even young, well-educated people with no disabilities. True   enough, we all get lost on the web, but the three groups I mentioned have an even harder time than most and are in danger of being excluded from major parts of modern society.If you can't use the web, you are truly disadvantaged in many aspects of modern life.  Despite this compelling need to be inclusive and support all users, most websites discriminate blatantly. My usability tests show that current websites are three times as difficult to use for blind or low-vision users than for users with full eyesight. Elderly users do slightly better, but the web is still twice as hard to use for seniors as for middle-aged or young users.The most important usability consideration for blind users is to allow the computer to read out the information on the screen. Even though computer speech still sounds a little artificial, it is possible for blind users to access huge amounts of information online that used to be reserved for sighted users. Many blind users in my studies particularly liked the ability to have the daily newspaper read aloud from the website since this gave   them equal access to high-quality news.It is easy to convert most websites into sound as long as the designers remember the special needs of blind users, but unfortunately this is often overlooked. For example, it is a common mistake to use images that have no textual caption, even though text is the only thing the computer can read aloud.Websites tend to be produced by young designers, who often assume that all users have perfect vision and motor control, and know everything about the web. These assumptions rarely hold, even when the users are middle-aged. However, as indicated by usability tests, the elderly are severely hampered by usability problems.The most widely known principle for supporting the use of computers by elderly users is to provide larger font sizes than those that younger users prefer. The principle may be well known, and it is indeed confirmed by user testing, but still, it is frequently violated by sites that freeze text at a tiny font size.Pull-down menus, hierarchically walking menus, and other moving interface elements cause problems for  the elderly who are not always steady with the mouse. These designs are even worse for users with motor-skill disabilities. It is better to use static user interfaces and designs that do not require pixel-perfect pointing.Low-literacy users may be the hardest group of all to accommodate. Very few websites make the effort to write clearly. Buzzwords abound, as do complex sentence structures. Some business websites may feel justified in ignoring low-literacy users because they are unlikely to be among the executives who control big budgets and approve expensive purchases. But websites about, for example, medication or bus routes need to be usable by everybody who have health problems or who commute, respectively. Extreme ease of use is necessary for low-literacy users to understand the somewhat complicated   information on these sites, and it is still fairly rare for companies to invest sufficiently in usability to reach beyond the elite layers of highly educated users.When it works for them, the internet is already an enriching part of many elderly and disabled users' lives. Even people who can't leave their house can cover the globe and stay in close contact with friends and family and new-found online contacts. Still, we need to triple usability to truly fulfill this potential.If companies and government agencies consider usability guidelines from the start, implementing them will rarely add to the cost of a web design or intranet project. No matter how young, smart, and able-bodied you are, it will be easier for you to use a web that has been designed to help all users.&#183;Jakob Nielsen, is principal of Nielsen Norman Group, a Silicon Valley-based research firm focusing on human use of technology. His latest book is called Homepage Usability: 50 Websites Deconstructed&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@online.co.uk
Cross hereWho was the Premier League's greatest footballer? What was the goal of the decade? The league's official website is holding its 10 Seasons Awards with voting in nine categories until February 17. You have to register to vote, and pick from a shortlist    selected by a panel of pundits that does not include either Andy Gray, John Motson, or "Big Ron" Atkinson.tenseasons.premier league.comFive ringsThere's a move to bring the Olympic Games to London in 2012, stimulated by Manchester's success in hosting the Commonwealth Games. The British Olympic Association says: "The proposal is based around a specimen Olympic Games proposal with Village and venues located in the heart of East London," presumably stimulated by the success of the Millennium Dome. London Olympics 2012 is trying to generate "overwhelming public support".www.olympics.org.uk/olympicbid.asphttp://londonolympics 2012.com3D worldsWe've spent more than 20 years socialising in cyberspace, often in online multi-user games such as the first MUD (multi-user dungeon), a text adventure run on a DEC mainframe at the University of Essex. After a few huge successes, such as EverQuest, the next big thing looks like being The Sims Online, which has just been launched in the US.  I'm optimistic because of the huge appeal The Sims series has for women, who can often find more interesting things to do than rampaging around hacking and slashing people. But it looks as though TSO could have some competition from There, which is now open for beta testing. It seems to be the usual thing - cartoon avatars talking in speech bubbles - though as with Microsoft's Xbox Live, broadband users can talk via microphones. Previous attempts at producing online social spaces that do not rely on gameplay, such as Worlds Away, have usually failed, but times have changed. Now the online world is no longer dominated by geeks and gamers, there's a chance users could move from simple chatrooms to 3D virtual worlds such as There.www.ibiblio.org/TH/mud.htmleverquest.station.sony.comthesimsonline.ea.comwww.there.comMore FeedAmerican journalist Dan Gillmor has a nice slide that shows "How Hollywood Sees the Internet": it is a picture of an old-fashioned TV set. Even    the popularity of blogging and other examples of the two-way read-write web - the one Tim Berners-Lee actually invented - does not seem to dent the notion that we're all couch potatoes, passively waiting to be topped up with advertising-driven "broadband content".  Still, if you do want to catch up on the top (US) stories in a TV-style format, Feedroom does a good job of delivering it. Media partners include NBC, HBO and Miramax; advertisers include Coca-Cola, Kraft and Ford; and the site is now claiming more than 3m visitors a month.masl.to/?G27622513www.feedroom.comNote itOnline Homebase is an online notepad and free-form organiser, so you can keep jottings on the web instead of losing scraps of paper. It's a little like eBoard, an online pinboard I used in 1999. OHB has a to-do list and calendar, and you can get it to send email reminders. You can also "publish" notes by giving them their own web address. The site was developed by former journalist Marc Fest, who also created Quickbrowse, the first "metabrowser". It is easy to use, but probably of limited use unless you have a permanent internet connection.www.onlinehomebase.comwww.eBoard.comwww.quickbrowse.comBlo.gsThere are more good blogs than anyone has time to visit on the off-chance that they have been updated. One response is Blo.gs, a site that tracks them for you, and provides updates by the minute. The site - a Yahoo Pick of the Day - is interesting even if you don't want to keep tabs on, say, Boing Boing or the entirely unofficial Google Weblog, because you can get a table of what everyone else is tracking. (Mark Pilgrim's Dive Into Mark, since you ask.) Blo.gs could also be good news for Britain's South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, which own the .gs domain name.www.blo.gsboingboing.netgoogle.blogspace.comdiveintomark.orgNew &amp; noted* Cutting card fraud with "the biggest consumer project since decimalisation":www.chipandpin.co.uk* 2002's top trends:www.trendsetters.com* Thou shalt not say:lssu.edu/banished/current* Fancy a job in computer games?www.codemasters.com/jobs/careers* Preserving the evidence:www.datafreeze.com* Welcome to Australia:www.google.com.au* Help a girl fill out her sweater:www.giveboobs.comSix of the bestFlightFirst centurywww.flight100.orgFirst flighthttp://firstflight.open.ac.ukWright clonewww.wrightflyer.orgNasa questhttp://quest.arc.nasa.gov/projects/aero/centennialHall of famewww.nationalaviation.orgLinkswww.tli.unt.edu/library/planesfly/resource.html
The web is a great place to learn new skills. If you're a traditionalist, you might want to update your business skills or learn how to brew a bathtub of amphetamine. But don't limit yourself. There are loads of training courses that you probably didn't even know existed, and some of them are nuttier than Kellogg's Luxury Muesli. For example, you could learn to build baroque sandcastles or make interesting shapes with balloons. Let me introduce you to the weird world of online tutorials.My sandcastle-making skills have always been a source of great shame for me and my kids. Try as I may, they nearly always come out looking like one of Dolly Parton's breasts. But now, thanks to the truly barmysandcastlecentral.com, I can build gargantuan sandcastles, complete with buttresses, naves, drawbridges and crenellated towers.The course begins with a beautifully upbeat message: "Sand castle building is a great way to interact with the beach. It's fun, it's a wonderful way to meet people, a useful means of teaching teamwork and cooperation - and it's good exercise, too!" All I need now is patience and   a bloody big bucket.If your idea of dancing is tapping one heel against the other, then maybe you should visitwww.bustamoves.com. This neatly designed website can teach you hip hop, party dancing, salsa, swing and wedding dancing (although you don't need to check this last one out, you know the moves already). Little blue and red Flash animation figures take you through the various moves, from beginners through to advanced. All the courses are free, but if you're really keen, you can pay for the more in-depth classes. Get down!These courses could just as easily come under the heading "How to be a great dad." I've awed the kids with a sandcastle worthy of Louis XIV, I've impressed them with some cool hip hop moves at the school disco, now all I need to do is build them the world's best tree house.And where better to learn to build a tree house than on the web? Go to:www.btinternet.com/~fulton. This comprehensive site teaches you everything from choosing a tree to securing your tree house from burglars. Along the way you'll learn valuable skills such as how to make a donkey (a tool for lifting heavy things, apparently) and even how to  construct a fireplace. No, you didn't misread that last line. I said "fireplace." The secret to not burning down your tree house is in the length and the angle of the flue.And if you're afraid of heights, you could always take virtual flying lessons atwww.firstflight.com. "Start learning to fly today $49.99!" You'll learn taxi, takeoff, straight and level flight, turns, climbs, descent, landing and post-flight procedures. You're also sure to be monitored very closely, every step of the way, by US intelligence services. Not that you'll know about it, of course.If learning to fly a crop-duster is a tad ambitious, you may just want to settle for constructing the world's best paper aeroplane. ThePaper Airplane Flight Clinicwill not only teach you how to construct the finest paper aeroplane known to man, it will also teach you how to fly it. Here is some advice: "If you find that the plane is banking to the left or right, you can correct this by experimenting with bends on the control surfaces. To gain extra control, cut flaps on the rear edge of the wings and bend the flaps up or down as   needed. You can also try bending the wing tips down instead of up." See?For the more sporting, you may wish to learn to make a Chesapeake light craft kayak.Steve Baxter's tutorialtakes you from a pile of wood and some epoxy resin to a beautifully constructed craft in just six chapters.If all this sounds too much like hard work, then take a look at the gloriously frivolousBalloon HQ. Before you get stuck in and start crafting poodles, you'd be well advised to brush up on your balloon basics. The website provides a useful tutorial for the novice, titled Balloon Science 101. Here you can learn "hysteresis effects on latex", and "entropy and the second law of thermodynamics as applied to latex". Is this tongue in cheek? Absolutely not. How can you expect to construct the Starship Enterprise out of balloons if you don't understand that dE = dH + dW?Finally, if you're an unemployed Java programmer, you should think of retraining in something a bit more marketable. The world always needs forklift drivers, and there's an excellent tutorial atwww.free-training.com/osha/forkliftto get you started. You'll learn everything from operations to safety and maintenance. Nothing too taxing, and you'll never have to worry about stroppy users yelling down the phone again. Now don't say you didn't learn anything useful.
Ideas, they say, are worthless. Without skill, application or steely will, even the best thoughts are lost. And in an arena such as computing, where good ideas can occur to anyone but where the application is rather more specialised, this kinda sucks.How often have you said to yourself: "I wish this did that...", or "I wish there was a site that...", yet you don't have the time or skills to build it?We all have. In fact, there's a name for the later stages of it: The LazyWeb.  It's the idea that if you publicly wish for something on the net, chances are someone will build it.Some might want a little widget for their weblog that does something cool. Talk about it online for a bit - through the magical power of the LazyWeb - and they may well get it.  People, it turns out, are    remarkably generous with their skills if you give them a cracking idea.But the LazyWeb is not without problems. The main one is that although there are many people with the skills and willingness to put your ideas into action, it's sometimes difficult to get the idea to them.Even for those of us with highly trafficked blogs, it's unlikely that the right person will read the right blog at the right time. Life's too short for most of us to be trolling sites for good ideas.So, after trying, sometimes successfully, to invoke the LazyWeb through my own blog, I picked up my own LazyWeb challenge, sent to me two weeks ago by the internet writer Clay Shirky. "I wonder," he wrote, "if there is a way to make an RSS (Rich Site Summary) feed for a LazyWeb description, so that developers could subscribe to "feature feeds", so that as people have ideas, they can toss them out, even if they don't have blogs highly trafficked by developers?"Well, that's a juicy one, I thought, and built it. Two LazyWeb requests of my own inspired the British information architect (and inventor of war chalking), Matt Jones, to design a logo, and UK developer Pete Birkinshaw to donate the use of the LazyWeb.org domain name.In less than a week, we went from an idea to a working site, getting lots of traffic and around 15 new good ideas every day.  How about: "A Winamp or Real Player plug-in that    allows you to program the player as if it were an alarm clock", or "A blog listing what pop content was released 50 years ago today. That way, we un-Americans will know what we can legally digitize and distribute", or "I want Google to provide a very tiny graphical notation if the last-cached copy of a web page contained a JavaScript for an unrequested pop-up window."And we've had successes. Justin Klubnik posted a message last week saying, "Not more than a few hours    after my post about a browser with multiple rendering engines, an answer arrived via email. Who says the LazyWeb only works for people with lots of flow?"The LazyWeb.org site is not alone, either. While my site attracts a lot of techy blogger action, others such as HalfBakery and BrainFlower cover all sorts of ideas from different arenas.The idea of people using their skills to scratch someone else's itch, for free and for the common good, is not new. The majority of the internet's technical infrastructure - the programs and standards that make it work - have been developed in this way.But what such sites as LazyWeb.org allow is for everyone to get involved in the "gift economy". You don't need to be part of an engineering elite to invoke the LazyWeb. You just need a good idea. You give people ideas, they give you cool stuff back, and you might be inspired by someone else.  The feeling of hundreds of people standing on each other's shoulders is powerfully refreshing.Links:www.lazyweb.orgwww.halfbakery.comwww.shouldexist.orgwww.creativitypool.comwww.brainflower.com
Residents of Norwich, rejoice. Your council is at a stroke tackling two big obstacles to broadband Britain: telecom
    companies' reluctance to build networks outside London, and the road chaos caused when they do.Norfolk county council's solution is to build a public broadband network for Norwich and outlying developments. With the help
    of a £3.4 million grant from the East of England Development Agency, the council plans to build a network of cable ducts,
    routed as much as possible through existing holes in the ground and river beds. It will then pick one or two telecom firms to
    offer broadband connections through the network at costs lower than those of leased lines. If all goes well, it could be in
    service next year.Public broadband initiatives of this kind are becoming common on the continent. Norfolk's network is modelled on a scheme
    in Antwerp, Belgium. In the UK, however, it is a first, and is likely to be the only for some time to come.In the UK, the only organisations large enough to make broadband networks commercially viable are public services:
    councils, schools, hospitals and police forces. The e-envoy, Andrew Pinder, has urged them to create an infrastructure that
    citizens and businesses can then use.So far, there is very little sign of it happening. District councils and police forces are installing high-speed links, while the
    NHS is about to issue a tender for a new private broadband network. 
    Sometimes the barriers are financial, and sometimes they are organisational. But usually they are what IT consultants call
    "cultural": public bodies have their own ways of doing things, and see other agencies as nuisances or even security threats.This is partly what is underpinning the Norfolk scheme. Its core will be a county council network to upgrade links to schools
    and libraries as well as district councils. But to justify its plan for a much more ambitious switched broadband network, the
    council needs more traf fic. It is now talking to half a dozen big users of private data circuits, such as Anglia TV and other
    major companies, about joining the municipal network.The idea, says Tim Anderson, e-government officer at the Conservative-run county council, is to create an attractive
    commercial proposition for telecoms firms. In return, they will provide a guaranteed level of service at a good price.Anderson stresses that there's nothing anti-competi tive about the publicly owned network. "All we're putting in is the
    infrastructure, in the same way we build roads or industrial estates. It doesn't destroy competition, it's a pure utility which
    the operator can use."One user that could really make the network hum would be the health service. However, the NHS may be tricky to bring on
    board. Although Anderson is talking about using the network to carry videoconferences between the local hospital trust and
    the university's nursing and midwifery school, true "telemedicine" services will almost certainly run across the NHS's own
    private network, due to be upgraded this year.Given the current chaotic state of broadband investment in Britain, should the government be doing more to force public
    agencies to work together? Yes, say many in the networking industry. "Organisations should be getting together to form
    consortia to aggregate their spending power, to achieve critical mass," says Vince Hafferty, regional sales manager of
    Telindus, a network integration company."Councils should be punching their weight, and they're not." 
    Probably the only thing that would make local government, the NHS and police forces cooperate in broadband would be a
    command from the very top. But Tony Blair's pledge in November to give all schools and doctors broadband connections
    contained no such measure. Unless some heads are banged together soon, these shiny new networks may become roads to
    nowhere.
Apple Computer has posted its second consecutive losing quarter, ending up $8 million in the red after taking a $17 million after-tax restructuring charge to cover plant and office closures and job losses. In the same quarter last year, Apple made a profit of $38 million. This time, sales grew by 7% to $1.47 billion, only very slightly below the average Wall Street forecast of $1.49 billion, reportsReuters.
Freelance photographer Rob Galbraith has run a series ofcomparison testson four computers, two Macs and two PCs, performing tasks associated with digital photography. (To pick one at random: Convert 25 D1X photos to JPEG using Batch (10 MP output size) in Nikon Capture 3.5.) The results show that a 3GHz PC is dramatically faster than Apple's fastest two-processor 1.25GHz G4 Mac -- which is not exactly news. What's interesting is that an obsolete 1.8GHz Dell with half as much memory is also faster than the Mac in a lot of the tests. The fourth machine, a Macintosh Powerbook G4/800MHz with a a gigabyte of memory, is just embarassing, often taking three or four times as long to perform tasks. The main area where the Mac comes close is when using Adobe Photoshop, which is optimised for the Mac. Apple boss Steve Jobs uses Photoshop for the so-called"speed comparisons"he ritually performs for the Mac faithful.No app-based comparison is beyond criticism, of course, but these are based on real-world digital media processing, where the Mac is frequently claimed to be more equivalent to, or even better than, a PC. Also, the main PC in the test is not to Apple's disadvantage. It's an Alienware Area-51m portable. It would be interesting to see how that compared with a system more like the Mac -- a dual Xeon set-up with lots of cache, for example, a hot graphics card and a big screaming hard drive. (If someone compared a top-of-the-line dual processor PC workstation with a Mac notebook, of course the Mac fans would scream foul.)While the tests are interesting, It's even more worth flicking though thediscussionthat follows the comparison. Usually the MacLoonies turn these things into flamefests, but in this case you get an intelligent discussion with some serious professionals making good points on both sides. Although this is a Mac forum, the PC gets a pretty fair hearing, instead of the usual cartoonish misrepresentation based on ignorance and wishful thinking.None of this will persuade most or even many of the participants to switch from Macs to PCs, nor should it. Speed is only one factor, and isn't necessarily the most important. In fact, if someone wants to choose their computer -- PC or Mac or Acorn RiscPC -- for completely irrational or even stupid reasons, that's fine, too. You pays your money and you takes your choice. But for my money, an honest appraisal is worth a lot more than the pseudo-religious ravings that all too often pass for arguments in this market.
China is blocking access to one of the most popular blogging sites, reportsReuters. The web and search engines are already censored, but in this case I'd guess it's blogdom's freedom of speech that the tyranny sees as a threat, rather than the information content.
Maybe I'm still grouchy from the jetlag after getting back from MacExpo, but early-morning reading over at Businessweek.com leaves me wondering what on earth they're on. First up, BW's normally-reliable Apple columnist Charles Haddad is off on leave, and his replacement thinks Apple failed to launch a new PowerMac line at MacExpobecause it wasn't "cool" enough. He thinks they were devoting R&amp;D resources to making the newski jacketinstead.Umm - no. They didn't launch new PowerMacs because (i) they are struggling to shift desktop systems, and launching new models now would leave a stack of expensive unsold boxes (ii) Apple's top-end processor speed is pretty much stuck for the moment and, without adding more processors, they're going to struggle to get decent speed bumps. And I can only hope the reference to resources being taken up by the Burton jacket is a joke.The supply columnist also thinks Apple is getting too complex for its own good, as happened under John Scully. But there are big differences. First, the complexity under Scully was mainly in one area - desktop computers – and that made it difficult for buyers to work out what Apple was offering, and for how much. Oh - and too many of the machines sucked.Second, while BW is right to point out the new Apple stores in the US could be a problem, the complexity of running them is less likely to be a problem than the high fixed costs they add to Apple's balance sheet. At a time when the market growth is all in low-cost computing, fixed costs are the last thing you want to pile on - especially when you're already selling "premium" (expensive) computers. Apple's shops get a lot of interest when they open, with long queues of people lining up to get in. But will shoppers (rather than tourists) keep on turning up? The key figures to look for will be same-store sales figures - if they are poor, the retail chain could turn out very expensive mistake. If they are good, Apple's pulled a very smart move indeed - and bucked a few trends.Maybe I'm speaking too soon. My stab at working out where Apple's challenges lie appears in Online tomorrow, and these things never pass off peacefully...
Meanwhile,Google's gaggle of problemsreheats some old concerns about Google's business model to suggest it's facing its "toughest year yet". Essentially, BW is fretting that the search engine runs both its own portal and offers search facilities to third parties. And it worries that Google will somehow need to become less user-friendly if/when it goes public.These are old concerns - people had been talking about them for a while when I wrote anOnline cover storyon Google this time last year. In short: it's fair to assume managements don't chuck out profitable business models when they have to start serving shareholders, and that shareholders will realise usability is a key USP of Google. Management at Google, when I met them, gave a fair impression of people who realised their success (a veryprofitablesuccess) was built on results, for searchers and advertisers. They achieve results today, and are not likely to fiddle with the recipe even if a minority share is sold off.As for BW's contention that other generalist searches are now "almost as good" - you've got to be kidding, right? Maybe for some subject-specific searches there are alternatives, but Google is still way ahead for the broad sweeps. If you're having trouble, don't forget Jack did aguide to advanced searching on Googlea few months back.Hmm... maybe it's time for some coffee before I write anything else...
Intel has releasedfourth quarter financial resultswith profits doubling to $1 billion on turnover flat at $7.2 billion. Over the full year, Intel made $3.1 billion (up from $1.3 billion) on turnover flat at $26.8 billion. Apple's results are due on Wednesday. Microsoft's results are due on Thursday.
Internet company Yahoo! has selected a website designed by a 13-year-old with dyslexia as one of its top sites of the year.Barnaby Blackburn, from Godalming, Surrey, hit upon the idea of a website on dyslexia after he searched the net on the subject and, he says, failed to turn up "anything interesting". Happily, he was able to put that right."I learned to make a website at an after-school club when I was 11," says Barnaby. "During the summer holidays, I discovered there were few sites for children with dyslexia, so I devised one."The content of the site - Iamdyslexic.com - varies from accounts of Barnaby's own struggle to do well at school to tips on   improving reading and writing skills. He puts up a spelling quiz every three weeks and there is also information on available services for dyslexic people.The site, among 12 recommended from the thousands submitted to Yahoo! every year, averages 150 hits a day from all over the world, especially the US and Australia. Many users send questions seeking help with their own disability.Barnaby, who was identified as dyslexic at six, spends evenings and weekends responding to the 100-plus emails he receives each week and adding suggestions to the site. "People send loads of spelling tips, so it's not just my site," he says. "I put up suggestions that I thought would help from my own experi ence. I use listening books on tape, rather than read, and at school I use my laptop, which has a spell-check."He says he was shocked when he received an email from Yahoo!, telling him that his website had been selected as a top portal. Resulting publicity has already lifted the number of hits by 25%.Barnaby, who attends Charterhouse school in Godalming, is now developing software kits for dyslexic children, and two of the kits are already available online through his site. "Instead of doing French at school, I go into the IT room and work on the software," he says.One of his products, called Days, Months and Numbers, has already found several customers, including schools in Surrey and Dorset.
New York.
Wininfo's Paul Thurrott, who went to both last week's shows, sums up at the end of today'snewsletter: "Because Jobs gave his Macworld address just days before Microsoft Chairman and Chief Software Architect Bill Gates presented his 2003 International Computer Electronics Show (CES) keynote address, not comparing the two events is impossible. The most obvious difference is support: Apple appears to be interested in going it alone, even to the extent of creating applications that don't break new ground or introduce new product categories but instead compete with existing third-party applications. Meanwhile, Gates's address continually touted Microsoft's many industry partners, such as the hardware makers working on Media2Go and Smart Personal Object Technology (SPOT) devices, Media Center PCs, and Tablet PCs. All of Microsoft's initiatives appear to be collaborative efforts, whereas Apple is basically circling the wagons and seizing any lucrative (and in the case of Safari, nonlucrative) businesses for itself. Put simply, comparing the reality of these two companies with way the public perceives them is astonishing."
The San Francisco Chronicle looks at how Microsoft's initiative is doing as it comes up to itsfirst anniversaryon January 15. Surely will no one will argue with the sentiment that Microsoft should and must do better. However, asInfoWorldpoints out in a story on Linux: "Studies from the Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) showed that open-source and Linux software accounted for some 16 of 29 security advisories during the first 10 months of 2002. Microsoft products only had seven advisories, or about 25 percent, during the same period of time." It's not a black and white issue, even if Microsoft is a darker shade of grey....
"Sony Computer Entertainment UK (SCE UK) announced today that during the peak selling season of 2002, PlayStation 2 achieved thehighest ever sell-throughbreaking all records in its history for both hardware and software in Japan, North America and Europe."
Steve Case, the man most responsible for the success of America Online, is quitting as chairman of the merged AOL Time Warner, reportsReuters. His biggest bet"failed to pay off". There's a good timelinehere. AP has excerpts from hisresignation statement.The Guardianhas the story.
Culture minister Kim Howells has launched a scathing attack on computer games, violent films and television programmes which he believes makes mayhem seem acceptable to young people.The outspoken government minister said the constant diet of death and destruction in modern film and television has created a "pornography of violence", appealing to viewers' lowest urges.And he criticised the "heartlessness" of video games which reward players for causing carnage.Mr Howells sparked controversy last week, in the wake of the fatal shooting of two   teenage girls in Birmingham, when he suggested that "boasting macho idiot rappers" had created a culture in which "killing is almost a fashion accessory".Despite his latest comments, Mr Howells insists that he is not arguing for censorship, but against the impoverishment of human experience represented by media products whose main appeal lay in violence.Mr Howells told the Independent: "I look at the video games my kids play, I look at some of the movies they and their friends think are wonderful and I see no humanity at all, nothing that tries to highlight and underpin the finer virtues that are in people   and society. It's always playing to the lowest common denominator, which is a kind of vicarious pleasure in spilling blood."I don't think a child is going to turn out to be a killer or more violent as a consequence of playing those games."But it's the acceptance of that heartlessness that is at the centre of all those kind of games, the kind of joy of shooting innocent bystanders or running them over in the car."Many of the games criticised by Mr Howells have been praised for their innovation.Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, a video game, has been shortlisted for the Designer of the Year award.
The couple who founded Friends Reunited, the successful school nostalgia website, have decided to give up control of the venture and are considering offers which will turn them into multimillionaires.Steve and Julie Pankhurst, who started Friends Reunited from their home in north London, said they have taken the website as far as they can.They are now pondering offers of more than &#163;30m from big internet firms keen to buy their database of 6.7 million email addresses. They are also considering issuing shares to lure an experienced management team to run the business.The couple, along with co-founder Jason Porter, have called in business consultancy BDO Stoy Hayward for advice.Rob Mogford, a director of BDO Stoy Hayward, said: "Their feeling is that the size of   it is getting beyond what they, as individuals, are capable of handling. Their backgrounds are in IT. They haven't been through the traditional management path."Possible buyers are thought to include internet service providers and dating agencies, which want to exploit the romantic side of the venture.Friends Reunited invites members of the public to sign up with their old school and post an update on their lives - so far, more than 6 million have signed up. Anyone who wants to make contact with an   old acquaintance can then pay &#163;5 for their email address.Although only a tiny fraction of subscribers paid, the venture is profitable. It employs 15 people, who run it from offices in London and have established spin-offs such as Workplace Reunited and a geneaology site, Genesconnected.com.The site's inspiration came from Mrs Pankhurst, who became pregnant three years ago and began wondering how many of her schoolfriends had children. Her husband and Mr Porter then designed the site, of which the trio still own 85%.
Two Harvard Business School academics, Marco Iansiti and Alan MacCormack, say the secret of Microsoft's success is its platform strategy, which enables it to exploit its ownintellectual propertywith the support of more than 40,000 partners. "Over time, as more and more partners signed up to use the model, developing applications for Microsoft's operating systems and using Microsoft's tools in the process, the power of the platform became evident. It was a win-win relationship — the community of development partners received benefits in terms of enhanced productivity, while Microsoft's position was strengthened through the deployment of products that were complementary to its own. This made it tough for competitors. They were not just going head-to-head with Microsoft's products — they were also competing against the repository of knowledge accumulating in Microsoft's component libraries," they say, in an e-mail interview.Microsoft has also, they say, produced consistently good products. "We analyzed the development performance of Microsoft products for the past fifteen years. Our aim was to come up with an objective measure of performance — one that was unrelated to arguments about market power, monopoly position, or predatory tactics. This meant we excluded any consideration of measures like market share or profitability, and focused instead on the ratings given to Microsoft products by independent reviewers. We found that Microsoft products were consistently rated highly when compared to competitive offerings, a result that held true across different product categories and over time. On average, Microsoft products 'won' more than two-thirds of the competitive reviews we examined. Indeed, only once in fifteen years did Microsoft products fail to win more than 50% of these reviews. Given the number and diversity of competitors they faced in each different product category, this consistently high performance is striking."Marco Iansiti is the David Sarnoff Professor of Business Administration at Harvard Business School, while Alan MacCormack is the Lumry Family Assistant Professor of Business Administration.The Harvard study is consistent with earlier academic studies of how Microsoft wins, such asWinners, Losers &amp; Microsoftby Stan J. Liebowitz, Professor of Managerial Economics, University of Texas, Dallas and Stephen E. Margolis, Professor of Economics and Business, North Carolina State University; and the much less impressiveMicrosoft Secretsby Richard W. Selby, from the University of California, Irvine, and Michael A. Cusumano, from MIT's Sloan School of Management.Comment: I would have thought it was profoundly obvious that the GNU/Free Software/open source approach represented a serious threat to Microsoft both through developing an alternative platform strategy and systematically destroying the value of intellectual property. However, such ideas are beyond the understanding of the US legal system (noticeably, the self-importantJudge Jackson) and, as far as I know, senior academics don't seem to have got around to addressing them yet.
Next month, NTT DoCoMo is expected to launch a trial service that allows Japanese subscribers to its FOMA third-generation (3G) mobile phone system to communicate with PC users on videophones, says the Kyodo News (inJapan Today).
Reutershas a more interesting review of what looks like becoming a hugely popular online game.
More from CES: PCWorld.com has a round-up of gadgets thatwirelessly distribute musicfrom a PC.
Reuters: "British rock star Pete Townshend, guitarist with legendary band The Who, on Saturday admitted paying to view Internet child pornography but denied he was a pedophile and said it was for research purposes." The Guardian has the story fromAnanova.
