It's Wednesday.
Microsoft is to spend $40bn (£25bn) buying back its own shares and raise its quarterly dividend 22% as the software giant moves to appease investors concerned that it is failing to capitalise on the smartphone boom.The share repurchase is intended to increase the value of Microsoft stock by reducing the number of shares in issue. It replaces an existing $40bn repurchase programme which began five years ago, in September 2008, and is due to lapse this month. No deadline has been given for completion of the new buyback."We view this as a further indication that things are changing at Microsoft with respect to corporate governance that we believe could benefit shareholders over the next six to 12 months," Nomura Securities analyst Rick Sherlund said in a note.The dividend will rise 5 cents on the previous quarter to 28 cents in December, costing the company an extra $400m per quarter. The payouts are intended to keep shareholders on board as Microsoft prepares for one of the most turbulent periods in its 38-year history.A search is under way for a replacement for chief executive Steve Ballmer, whoannounced his retirementlast month and days later negotiated the€5.4bn (£4.5bn) acquisitionof the phone-making arm of Finnish group Nokia. Microsoft is hoping to emulate Apple's success by designing hardware and software under one roof.
A man who picked up one of the first copies of Grand Theft Auto V after shops opened at midnight  was stabbed and robbed of the game as he made his way home.The man, 23, was violently attacked after he left an Asda store in north London just an hour and 20 minutes after the video game went on sale.He was hit with a brick, stabbed and stripped of his mobile phone, watch and his copy of GTA V near the supermarket.The man is now recovering in hospital where he is said to be in a stable condition. A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "The victim had been shopping and was on his way home when he was hit with a brick. He was then stabbed and robbed."An Asda employee at the Colindale store said there were about 200 customers who queued up for the game on Monday night. Police, who were called to a Colindale street about 1km from the supermarket at 1.22am, said the motive for the attack was unclear.Launched to rave reviews, the game reportedly cost about £170m to make and market – more than many of even the biggest budget Holywood films.It has been estimated that the UK made game could generate £1bn during its first year on sale when fans are predicted to snap up some 25m copies, breaking current records.
Basic broadband can add £200 a month to household income in developed economies, researchers have found, because better internet access improves learning and working from home.Increasing download speeds from a weak 0.5 megabits per second to a basic 4Mbps – enough to reliably stream video – makes a statistically significant difference to a family's earnings, astudyby telecoms equipment firm Ericsson has found."If you have a good broadband connection you can enjoy online learning services from the most prestigious universities around the world, you can be a better informed consumer, you make better purchases at the best price," said Sebastian Tolstoy, a vice-president at Ericsson. "As a better-connected professional you are likely to be more attractive at work and that could translate into being more successful in your career."Once a family's download speed reaches 4Mbps, average earnings rise by $322 a month (£201) in the 34 richer nations, including the UK, that are part of the OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development).The increase is £75 a month for households which double their speed from 4Mbps to 8Mbps, enabling high-definition video and enough bandwidth for more than one person to use any website simultaneously. Once households jump from fast to superfast – more than 24Mbps – their income rises again.For households which go from no internet access to 4Mbps, earnings can rise by £1,320 a year."The evidence is building for broadband speed as a driver of economic growth," said Martin Glaumann, a partner at management consultancy Arthur D Little, which contributed to the study. "Yet in many countries, not least in the EU, regulatory developments are holding back the full growth potential. Broadband gives households the means to improve skills and productivity through e-learning and business services, but also to gain access to new venues for consumption."In the fast developing economies of Brazil, India and China, better broadband still improves earnings, but less markedly. Ericsson found that boosting speeds from 0.5Mbps to 4Mbps in these nations saw income rise by £29 a month. While consumers may be coming online in emerging economies, many of the services that might enrich them have not yet been created.The study was based on 22,000 online interviews with householders. Tolstoy said these interviews had helped to prove that higher income was caused by better internet, rather than households first earning more and then being able to afford a faster connection.The positive impact of broadband on gross domestic product (GDP) has been underlined by previous studies, with Ericsson research showing that for every 10% increase in the number of people online, a nation's GDP rises by 1%. Doubling average broadband speeds in a country increases GDP by 0.3%."We know that speed matters and that upgrading broadband speed has a positive impact," said Tolstoy. "Now we have shown this quantitatively using large data samples ... even at the household level."
Microsoft’s Bing search engine has just unveiled anew designand features in its continuing effort to try and tempt users away from rival Google.Bing now builds even more contextual information into internet searches. A new “Glance” feature combines two existing features, Snapshot and Sidebar, which stored information on the user and pulled data from their Facebook, Twitter and other social networks, to create contextual and personalised search results which are more relevant to the user.Microsoft said in a blogpost: “This combined region ranks the key information and actions we know about any an entity, while bringing in friends and expert opinions about that same topic.”Microsoft has also increased the speed at which consumers can get answers to their queries, introducing a new “Page Zero” feature. Page Zero starts highlighting information about a query as it is being typed into the search box, including images, video and links to news.Matching Google&apos;s Instant SearchA new fact box also forms part of the redesign, which recognises keywords and presents information on particular topics such as celebrities, providing instant facts on their activities, as well as popular search terms related to the celebrity.“For example, if you type Katy Perry, we understand what you’re looking for before you’ve even searched and give you a quick glance of who she is and suggest other popular search tasks associated with the singer,” said Microsoft.Bing’s latest move echoes developments on Google’s Instant Search, which also provides results the moment a keyword is typed into the search box, complete with summary facts. However, Bing also shows information from relevant sites in small preview boxes; online check-in for an airline, for example, allowing one-click access to to the site from the Bing search results.Microsoft has unveiled a new Bing logo redesignA redesign also introduces a new, angled Bing logo, which replaces the rounded lowercase &quot;b&quot; that Microsoft has been using up until now, with a new angled, lowercase &quot;b&quot; that “was created to be simple, real and direct,”according to Microsoft.The &apos;Bing ecosystem&apos;The redesign continues Microsoft’s campaign of highlighting the role Bing plays in the rest of Microsoft’s product ecosystem including Office, Windows 8.1 and the Xbox One, not just on the web, where its market share accounts for 17.9% compared with Google’s 67% share in US searches, according to metrics firm comScore.Ian Maude of industry analysts Enders Analysis questioned whether Microsoft’s continued investment and development of Bing was enough to win a larger market share of internet search.“It won’t make any difference. Frankly, Bing doesn’t offer anything really, truly different from Google. It’s a number two product and it feels like an unbalanced arms race.&quot;Microsoft’s Bing is challenging in a market that is very difficult to make any headway into, said Maude, due to the nature of search. &quot;Search is a binary product – you tend to have one search engine that’s integrated into your browser, your phone, your devices and you don’t switch between a few.”• In June, the Federal Trade Commissionwarned Google, Yahoo and Bingto clearly distinguish between paid-for adverts and &apos;organic&apos; search results.
Greg James, the host of Radio 1's drive time afternoon show, estimates that, on average, he spends four to five hours a day wearing headphones, so he casts a weather eye over the selection laid out before him."I'm very picky with these," he confesses, "I'm a radio nerd, and when I'm doing the radio I'm absolutely obsessed that the headphones sound right." Opinions on hardware seem to differ across the Radio 1 team, and James tells me that some of his colleagues are reluctant to share their headphones with other DJs. "These might still be full of Sara Cox's thoughts," he says, trying on the studio's in-house cans.James himself uses at least three different pairs in his daily life: a lightweight set for running, another durable, noise-cancelling pair for live club gigs and a third for sitting at home "in an easy chair, if I don't want to annoy the neighbours."He's particular about reliability, and shudders remembering the time his noise-cancelling phones ran out of battery mid-set. "I wouldn't trust wireless ones", he says warily, "not if I was DJing." The best approach to choosing a full-size pair seems to require finding a balance between the "industrial, never-break" options, and the overlarge "1940s fighter plane" type. In the end though, it's all about finding "my kind of sound".Pioneer HDJ-1500Flexible, swivelling earpieces, targeted at would-be pro-DJs, £149"These look like classic, industry-standard DJ headphones, and they're a good all-rounder, but they don't give as much depth as I'd like. That aside, they're versatile and robust, which is important for DJing live."Perfect for:"Chase &amp; Status sound great through these. They need something boisterous and epic-sounding."Denon Music Maniac AH-D340Uncomplicated headset promising fine-tuned EQ, £179"I'm a brand snob. Denon are a brand I trust, but even though these go quite loud they aren't great for noisy songs. For subtle, atmospheric music they're great, though, and the sound  reverberates nicely within the earpiece."Perfect for:London GrammarAKG K267 TiëstoHuge metallic unit, featuring variable bass booster, £299"They feel very expensive. They're also needlessly big and heavy, which feels like a statement, a way of saying "I love trance!". But if you want to feel like you're in the club listening to rumbling dance beats, they're for you. They seem to numb all the other senses when you wear them. They also look a bit like Tiësto, weirdly."Perfect for:"Who else but Tiësto himself? Adagio for Strings, ideally."Creative Sound Blaster EVO ZxRed cans aimed at gamers, including a built-in audio processor, £177"If I were to pick a pair on aesthetics, these would be the ones, they look cool and they're the best for noise-cancelling. Soundwise, they give  lots of depth, but they're not  that clear or crisp: it's quite a muddy, bass-heavy sound."Perfect for:SkrillexBeats by Dre StudioSleek, must-have design; adaptable noise-cancelling, £269"I wouldn't buy them myself, and I think a headphone connoisseur would go for something else for the money, but they're decent and very bassy. Dre isn't going to make shit headphones, his reputation's at stake, but I don't go in for the idea of celebrity headphones. Even if Mumford and Sons brought out some headphones, I wouldn't buy them. These are comfy though, like sitting inside a limo."Perfect for:"Hip hop. 50 Cent, maybe, or Kanye West."Monster DNASmall, triangular headphones; available in shocking pink, £169"These things are just dreadful, and they sound as cheap as they look. They're fine as a 'my first headphone', and you get the idea of what you're listening to, but it sounds hollow and empty. Compared with some of the others here, they're so bad."Perfect for:"Really poppy stuff, maybe One Direction or Jessie J."Griffin WoodtonesSimple-looking; wood-backed earpieces, £75"These are excellent. The 'walnut finish' effect reminds me of the inside of a Rover 200, but they feel incredible, and they're quite light actually, considering they're made of wood. There's a nicely balanced tone to them, which is exactly what I look for in sound. I would never have chosen them off the shelf, but these are my pick."Perfect for:"I I was going to say Dire Straits or Eric Clapton, but something that needs a great soundscape, like Disclosure, would be a good choice."Bose AE2w BluetoothOn-ear controls; detachable Bluetooth unit, £199"I do a lot of running, and have a set of Bose on-ears for doing that, which are great. They're like a BMW, you expect them to be good, but I'm surprised to say I'm not as impressed by this pair as I thought I'd be. They sound a bit hollow and echoey and they're not as rich as I expected."Perfect for:"Rihanna. Bose and  Rihanna have the same problem; sometimes amazing, but every now and again they can come out with a  real stinker."OVERALL WINNERSBest for bass: Beats by DreBest-looking: Sound BlasterBest for comfort: Griffin WoodtonesBest sound quality: Griffin WoodtonesStaying In With Greg and Russell - an eight-part series - will debut on BBC3  later this month.
Finally, Grand Theft Auto V is out, and the critical reception has been staggeringly positive. So what has the Rockstar team done to bring its open-world series up to date, and to fully realise the world of Los Santos?In the second part of our discussion with co-writer Dan Houser, we look at the process of designing a playful city, as well as the influence GTA has had on culture. We also tackle the subject of female lead characters and the future of the series. Will GTA ever return to the UK?Environment is a massively important part of your games – this one seems to combine the dense city of the earlier titles with the rural isolation of Red Dead Redemption. What challenges does this bring?When you live in America, after about five minutes you realise that the biggest difference in the country is between town and countryside. In the UK, even if you live in Somerset you have some connection to London. Here, rural areas are a lot more detached from the cities, and this is where many of the political and social schisms are. So we have the wilderness and all the joy and terror that induces in America, and we also have the city, with all the joy, terror and depression that induces. To be able to play on that contrast is definitely interesting.We did a little bit of that in GTA: San Andreas, but to do it properly was a huge guiding principle to us this time. Plus, you get varied gameplay for a country area with a motorbike, mountain bike or helicopter – and the countryside is great for uncomplicated fun as well – it lets you blow stuff up as well as meet lunatics. But just having the contrast is important, especially in a game because it lasts so long – you need to be able to go in different directions. That's important to us.How do you research LA?It's a fascinating city – it's kind of obsessed with itself. It's a 20th century city too: cars and real estate are its driving forces. There's no other reason for it to be there. It's so unlike Britain, that's what's so interesting. New York has a relationship you can understand, LA is nothing to do with Britain. It's alien to me and Sam, who have come over from London, it's like living on the moon. And some of the guys from Scotland adore it, some of them can't stand it – it's very interesting to see their reactions.It seems to me that the GTA titles have always treated environment as a game design element, rather than just somewhere to place the action – it's something the best action adventure games all share. People talk about the influence of cinema on your games, but it seems things like geography and architecture play a huge part...GTA is the bastard child of many different parents. It's more urban planning than architecture, though. There's a great skill in doing the first layouts of a map, it's so complicated what those artists are doing – the things they have to worry about. They have to bring a huge section of the world to life, get things working in the right way, make areas that look believable but work well for gameplay and give good roads for car chases and areas for shootouts. It has to be planned out but must still look organic; you have to capture the essence of what's really there in a city, but in a far smaller area. It's a great, great skill.GTA 5: 'You have to capture the essence of what's really there in a city'It's effectively urban planning as narrative really, isn't it? A road has to tell a story.You begin by saying 'well, this is the area that we want the game map to represent', but in reality the game is going to be a twentieth of that size – so what are the iconic things you have to have? And then we have to organise the map so that it still feels like, say, New York or LA, get the spirit of it in a lot less size. Game design is all about compromise – and making the right compromises is the skill.I like the way that the "real" world of the GTA games infringes on the action – whatever you're doing, in the background there's a city going about its business. There's a sense that the reality of the game scales...Yes, it all scales. I remember reading a criticism of GTA IV – they were saying that you can be on a date, or doing something else, and then there's a ridiculous advert outside the window and that ruins it. But that's exactly the way the world is, or the modern world, or the postmodern world, whatever we're meant to call it now. You can never escape this stuff, and it's never going to completely enhance your mood – that's the game doing a brilliant job of what's it's supposed to do.There's a believability to it – these characters aren't superheroes, they have this griminess to them, these nuances. That's something we wanted to build with Michael, Trevor and Franklin. What are they doing when they're not being action anti-heroes? That's a real strength of the game, a strength of the world and potentially a strength of games in general when they move away from trying to just portray larger-than-life übermensches.GTA 5: 'These characters aren't superheroes'Is it difficult to get away from the underlying structure of open world game missions: go somewhere, shoot people, get something, get out. Is it hard to break that mould with GTA V?We've thought long and hard about it, but the reality is, structured missions – being given a task and completing a task – they feel like life. In a game, when you're doing missions you're doing a job, and in the open world you do what you want. To us that's the best way to replicate the structure, and the lack of structure, of life. I don't see the benefit of throwing that away.The trick is not making it feel too mannered and predictable and hopefully we've broken that up. I think players like the combination: things they're told what to do, tasks where they're not told what to do but know they have to achieve something specific, and things where they're able to explore for themselves. We try to give you all of those in a variety of different ways.The games have always explored the idea of pervasive communication, some felt that went too far with Roman in GTA IV constantly ringing you up…That became a meme about the game that wasn't really true! It happened a lot less than people said!But has that sense of pervasive media evolved for this game?We'd evolved the friend system anyway by the end of Gay Tony, it was fairly subtle but it was working better. I feel that in GTA IV, for the first execution of something, it came out pretty well. Really what it is, from a mechanical standpoint, is a way of giving you someone to do the mini-games with that provides them a bit of extra context – that's all it's really doing. But it's one of those things that GTA IV became heavily criticised for and I never quite understood why. It got talked about a lot more than I expected.One thing I think we can all agree on is that the games are about macho subcultures – there are a lot of gangsters.GTA 5: 'Hopefully we're not glorifying them too much'A lot of gangsters – but hopefully we're not glorifying them too much. We try to make things real, to undercut them.Right, but when you changed to multiple characters did you think of having a woman in a lead playable role?We didn't really think about it this time. That's not to say that we couldn't or we wouldn't. This character set is just what came to us: it wasn't, "we've got X and Y so we need Z", we weren't trying to do it off a checklist – I don't think that will ever give you something that's believable or engaging. In the future, could we do a game with a lead female character? Of course. We just haven't found the right game for it yet, but it's one of the things that we always think about. It didn't feel natural for this game but definitely for the right game in the future – with the right themes, it could be fantastic. But for GTA V, this was the organic thing that came up, these were the characters what would display the themes we wanted to think about.GTA 5 is coming at the end of the console cycle. Does the advance of technology interest you? Do you think, 'Oh wow, what will GTA 6 look like on a PS4?'Of course we're interested.  But no, not in terms of GTA, because we're always working on the current game. We look at the tech at a more practical level: what will be ready for which game that we're working on further down the line. We don't have another GTA in development, we don't work on three of these games at a time. That would be phenomenally depressing. So, in terms of GTA, no. We get pitched by the hardware manufacturers on what they're planning to do and our tech guys come up with ideas on how that could be used. Does this influence design decisions? Of course. But we're not sat there fantasising about 10 years down the line. We're so busy with what we're doing right now.Are you interested in what your peers are doing? Since GTA IV came out, Call of Duty has become the biggest series in the world. Do you watch that sort of thing happening?Yes and no. Of course, we're aware of Call of Duty – we're not living under a rock. In general, we've shied away from offering opinions on the rest of the industry – I don't think it's appropriate. I've never understood why anyone would want to denigrate someone else's work. Anyone who can make one of these games deserves a pat on the back – or to be locked up. It is so hard and so draining, we applaud anyone who does it, and particularly anyone who does anything new.We like it that people make lots of different kinds of games. These are the games we like to make, we think we have something to say, but they're not the only kinds of games we think should be made, at all. It's not the Olympics where only one person wins a gold medal. We're not in direct competition with Call of Duty or with anyone. Our job is to make something we're proud of and to return the Take Two investors' money to them – those are the only two things we have to worry about. To hopefully sell a lot of copies of a game, doing something we're proud of – that what we focus on.People like to think of the games business as a sort of permanent ongoing war...For us, the more games there are the better, the more they all sell, the better. The industry has got a very strange desire to grade everything and say it's all on the verge of failure. For an industry that seems to be doing pretty well – even its downturns are pretty minuscule – it seems to be desperate for its own suicide. It's great that there are games doing well, and are getting people's attention and there is room for everybody making good games. Call of Duty was great but Red Dead Redemption came out and did fantastically for us.The rise of the indie scene is interesting, too. Several titles are taking very close inspiration from GTA, the likes of Hotline Miami and Retro City Rampage…Yes, quite close! Maybe that's not a conversation I want to get into. But in terms of the wider world of indie games, yeah, it's great, but to me, good games are good games and bad games are bad games. There is a desperate need within the games industry to categorise everything. What we've seen this generation is that good games do well and bad games don't. There is no competition between the big games and small games, hopefully people want a variety of experiences. What unites games is interactivity and apart from that there is a very broad canvas and there should be room for lots of interpretations of what that means. That's how we look at it: there's room for everyone who's doing something interesting or saying something interesting. You can't say triple A is failing when Call of Duty is doing crazy numbers, it's all fine.Talking about influences, it feels to me – and to a lot of other people – that Nicolas Winding Refn's movie Drive was effectively set in, or at least heavily inspired by, the GTA universe...You think? Even the font was GTA. I thought it was an interesting film, the music was spectacular. I agree, it was impossible to imagine that film without having played GTA. And that's a cool thing. It's a positive thing for us, it's good for everybody.It's similar to when Vice City came out. I was driving in England on a Friday night, stuck on the M25 listening to Pete Tong, and there were about six songs in a row from the soundtrack. I thought, 'Wow, games are beginning to have an influence.' What people tended to say about that film, as far as I could tell, was that it felt fresh and interesting because they'd discovered a new visual language – and if that was partly inspired by our games, that's great.Ryan Gosling in Drive: 'It was impossible to imagine that film without having played GTA.' Photograph: EPA/Richard Foreman Jr SMPSPAnd in music, current electronica seems to be really heavily inspired by games and by the chiptune genre. GTA V really picks up on that; I've already discovered some great artists I didn't know about: TransistorCake, GOOSE, Age of Consent...All the bedroom producers are playing games. Some of the people in our company have phenomenally good taste in music – not me unfortunately – and they're going to find stuff that others are simply not going to know about. I first heard some of the music I love watching movies – it would be odd if people weren't getting that stuff from games now. Since WipEout music has been more and more important in games.You said that you would finish GTA when it stopped being interesting, but the games industry now depends heavily on its brands. Can you really imagine a future without it?Well, we don't need to worry about it just yet, because we're not there. I don't think about this, I just do my little bits and pieces so that no one's shouting, "where's your work, you bastard?" That's my day to day. Worrying about the next couple of games, helping to run the business, that's more than enough for me. So far, when it comes down to it… we wanted this game to be one where you'd go, I played San Andreas, I've played GTA IV, I liked them, but I know I'm going to be bored by this one, and then you put it in and say wow. We wanted this game to be jaw-dropping – in terms of its scope, in terms of its design ambition, we're always looking for that.So there's no 10-year plan at Rockstar HQ for GTA?This was the best game we could make at this point in time – we're not holding anything back for the future. If you said to me now, go and design another GTA, I'd be like, 'Oh what the fuck am I going to do next?' But hopefully, when the time comes, we will figure out what was good, what wasn't, and what could be improved with a bit of tech. The reason the game is still vibrant and exciting 11 years after it went into 3D is because we haven't done that. We've gone all out on every version to try and make the absolute best game we could make at that time.And yes, we've had to cut features out because they couldn't be done, or whatever it might be, but each time we've been ambitious and pushed ourselves as hard as we could. Of course a part of me would love not to have to worry about GTA anymore, but another part of me goes, I'm so excited to see what the guys have come up with and what we can all do when the time comes. We're focused purely on finishing this – and that's what allows us to maintain some semblance of sanity.Are we heading toward a future where the barriers between linear and interactive entertainment come down?Hmm, I don't know, I've not given it a lot of thought. I suppose you will get some form of convergence when the act of watching games is sufficiently fun. And we're getting closer to that. Games like LA Noire and Max Payne are pretty fun and spectacular to watch. A lot of people have said to me that they love playing LA Noire with their partners – that is a baby step toward convergence. Certainly there are areas of the multiplayer mode that are moving in a similar direction. But again, we're so focused on what we have to do this week, this month, we don't have the time to think about that. My job is to get the bloody game done and survive in the process. People often ask why don't you go to games conferences – we don't have the bloody time! This is relentless!GTA 5: will the series be heading for the UK?Did you ever think about exploring the UK further in the GTA games? Lots of people remember the GTA London titles quite fondly...I think for us, my gut feeling is, GTA London was cool for the time, but games were more limited then. These days I think we would love to set a game in the UK, set in London, whatever, but I don't know if it would be a GTA game. I think there are plenty of great stories we could tell about the UK, great environments to showcase, great gameplay mechanics that could have a UK bent to them – I just don't think it would be a GTA necessarily.There are so many games we'd like to make that we just don't have the bandwidth to make at the moment. But we always think, well the future is long and varied, and that's what the future's for. Speaking for myself – and normally I'd be as militant about saying 'we' as much as possible, because it certainly isn't only me at all, thank god – but my own personal feeling is that GTA is America. With this game, I think, we're very happy with the location. It let us do something iconic.
Grand Theft Auto 5 may not appear on smartphones and tablets until 2023 if last year's tenth-anniversary mobile version of GTA: Vice City is anything to go by. But developer Rockstar Games has released a pair of iOS companion apps for its latest console game, just in time for its launch.Grand Theft Auto V: The Manualis self-explanatory: a digitised version of the PS3 and Xbox 360 game's 100-page manual, complete with an interactive version of the game map. It is alsoavailable for PCs, with Mac support to follow.However, it's the second app,Grand Theft Auto: iFruit, that's the real draw for fans. It riffs off the iFruit parody of Apple and its iPhones that first appeared in Vice City, complete with an App Store listing poking fun at the apps phenomenon:"How would we survive without apps? Apps can transform your mobile device into essential tools like a harmonica, disco ball or convincing moustache. Somewhere out there is the perfect storm of touchscreen technology to fix everything that's wrong with your life. And maybe all you're missing is the iFruit app. Maybe not. At least you'll have something to keep you entertained while your significant other prattles on endlessly about their day."The iFruit app has more serious aspects, though, including news on the console game, integration with Rockstar's Social Club community (not to mention GTA 5's spoof social network LifeInvader), and a pair of features that directly affect the console game.Los Santos Customs is a section where players can create and customise a car for use in the main game and its upcoming Grand Theft Auto Online mode, including reserving their own licence plates."Place your order on-the-go and find it waiting for you in the garage the next time you play Grand Theft Auto V, or send your order in while playing and get a call from your local mechanic to swing by," explains the App Store listing.Meanwhile, a mini-game called Chop the Dog is based on the pet dog of one of GTA V's main characters, Franklin. The more people play with the mini virtual-pet app on their iPhone or iPad, the better-behaved and more useful Chop will be in the console game, including finding hidden items when taken for a walk."Depth of content, high production values, defecation. It's the app that has it all. Because who doesn't love tending to a virtual pet?" as the app listing puts it.For now, both apps are iOS-only, but on its website,Rockstar says they will be "coming soon" for Android, Windows Phone, PlayStation Mobile and PS Vita devices.Companion apps for big console games are increasingly common. Other examples includeEA Sports Football Clubfor FIFA 14;Ghost Recon Networkfor Ghost Recon Future Soldier; andHalo Waypointfor Halo: Reach.Meanwhile, Microsoft'sXbox SmartGlassapps for iOS, Android, Windows 8 and Windows Phone devices are designed to be second-screen apps for a range of Xbox 360 (and soon, Xbox One) features, including compatible games.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWeChat's new monetization experiment: celebrity accounts &gt;&gt; TechnodeChen Kun, a famous Chinese actor, rolled out a premium service to his followers on WeChat. Paying to subscribe to his official account, fans will receive exclusive photos, or songs, e-books and even Good Night voice messages from him.The  monthly subscription is priced at RMB18 (no more than $3). Payments are powered by WeChat Payment that was made possible with WeChat 5.0. It is rumored that Chen's official account received RMB7 million ($1.14mn) the first day alone.Wow. Just wow.What the Google Street View decision means for researchers (and cops) &gt;&gt; Electronic Frontier FoundationHanni Fakhoury analyses for the EFF (Google was found guilty of breaking the Wiretapping Act):First, the bad. If you're a security researcher in the Ninth Circuit (which covers most of the West Coast) who wants to capture unencrypted Wi-Fi packets as part of your research, you better call a lawyer first (and we can help you with that). The Wiretap Act imposes both civil and serious criminal penalties for violations and there is a real risk that researchers who intentionally capture payload data transmitted over unencrypted Wi-Fi—even if they don't read the actual communications —may be found in violation of the law. Given the concerns about over-criminalization and overcharging, prosecutors now have another felony charge in their arsenal.On the other hand, the decision also provides a strong argument that the feds and other law enforcement agencies that want to spy on data transmitted over unencrypted Wi-Fi will need to get a wiretap order to do so.Wristband monitors your rock-climbing prowess &gt;&gt; New ScientistAre you an expert climber or a trembling novice? A sensor-equipped wristband will find out how well climbers negotiate rock faces by analysing the way they move.Cassim Ladha and colleagues at the University of Newcastle have developedClimbAx, a plastic wristband which contains 3D motion, orientation and altitude sensors to collect key data during climbs. Afterwards, climbers download the data via a USB port. A machine learning algorithm then identifies their individual moves and makes an assessment of their skill level.The system automatically replicates some of the ways professional coaching, which is too expensive for most people, assesses the skills of elite climbers. Two factors that coaches look for are the climbers' overall control – their ability to make smooth transitions between holds – and their stability, which is a measure of their ability to maintain a hold and remain composed while doing so.Wearable technology: it's getting everywhere.Nokia Lumia 1520 unveil pushed back to 22 October &gt;&gt; Eye on WindowsWe have some bad news for Windows Phone fans that were planning to get their hands on Nokia's first phablet. The launch of the large screen Lumia 1520 seems to have been delayed by almost a month.Something like this was always on the cards, keeping the recent events in mind.And even though these are still rumors, with Nokia yet to make any official statement, these two reports come from the most reliable of sources. The launch event that the Finnish smartphone maker had scheduled for 26 September in New York City may be pushed back.Samsung halves September notebook component orders &gt;&gt; DigitimesSamsung Electronics has cut its notebook component orders for September to about half of its original forecast and the company reportedly may also reduce its shipment forecast for 2013 to only 13m units, compared to 13.8m units in 2012, according to sources from the upstream supply chain.Samsung did not comment on the sources' claim.Samsung originally expected its 2013 notebook shipments to grow 15-20% on year, but, like other first-tier vendors, is also facing the notebook market woes.A 15-20% growth would have been 15.9m-16.6m units. If correct (it is Digitimes), this is a 20% dip from that forecast. Other notebook makers may be seeing the same.How Apple's A7 64-bit chip gives iOS plenty of headroom for the future &gt;&gt; ZDNetSimon Bisson:With a virtualisation-ready processor in its new phone, Apple can now start to move iOS in the direction of a hypervisor-controlled sandbox environment, perhaps using a technology like Microsoft's research OS Drawbridge.Here the operating system component of a VM is tailored to the application it is hosting – minimising the attack surface of each secure partition. Combined with a fingerprint sensor to identify users, Apple has the tools it needs to deliver biometric access control, allowing devices to support multiple users, with files and apps for one user hidden from another using hardware encryption.While iOS doesn't support this approach currently, it's a logical extension of the current iOS security model, which uses selectively encrypted sections of the file system to secure application-specific data. It's also an approach that would allow apps written for an older version of iOS to continue to run, in their own dedicated partition, without the security features that newer apps, in their individual partitions, could use. That way there'd be backward compatibility, allowing Apple to deliver a more secure, enterprise-friendly, iOS without destroying its existing ecosystem.With smartphones (and tablets - surelu a future iPad have the A7) Apple seems serious about the enterprise. This might be important.Welcoming Nokia's "Mobile Phones" customers to the Microsoft family &gt;&gt; Nokia ConversationsThe official Nokia blog, ahead of the change of ownership in January:There are 1.3 billion people using a Nokia phone today. In some markets, the word 'Nokia' is synonymous with 'phone' – and we aspire to live up to that brand as we welcome customers of these products into our Microsoft family.In many cases, these customers are new to Microsoft, and their first personal computer will be a phone. With Nokia's Mobile Phones starting at $20, more people will be introduced to Microsoft services earlier in their lives than ever before. In some geographies, Windows Phones are not available. Again, Nokia's Mobile Phones will introduce more people to Microsoft services in more places than ever before.The four sentences in that second paragraph sit uncomfortably together, and don't seem to have a single strand of thinking behind them. It's more like two people arguing.Sticking a knife in a toaster &gt;&gt; Boing BoingIf you've wondered what happens when you stick a knife in a toaster (and really, who hasn't?), here, in six seconds, is a Vine clip demonstrating the inadvisability of this course of action. Let this be a lesson to us all.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Google is buying Bump, an app which allows smartphone users to send pictures, contacts or other files to each other by bumping them together.Bump was initially made available on Apple's iPhone as a substitute for NFC - Near Field Communications - technology which enables the same functionality on Android and other NFC-equipped smartphones.The decision to buy Bump seems to have been partly driven by the impending release of Apple's iOS 7, the latest version of its iPhone software. That introducesa technology called AirDropwhich could be used to transfer similar data types - including photos or web addresses - using a combination of Wi-Fi and Bluetooth to multiple devices at once without requiring the phones to touch. "There's no bumping your phone," said Apple's iOS software chief Craig Federighi when he showed the feature off to developers in June at Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference. Apple already implements AirDrop on its desktop and laptop computers.For Bump, that could mean that its biggest platform, iOS, would become less useful if people begin using AirDrop instead of its app.Google also hasits own NFC project, called Beam, announced in October 2011. And Samsung has implemented its own "bump" technology using NFC to move files between devices.The price of the sale hasn't been disclosed, though AllThingsDigital reported sources putting the price at between $30m and $60m, compared to venture capital investment of $20m.Bump was founded in 2008 and first released its app on Apple's App Store in March 2009. It has had a total of more than 125m downloads for both iPhone and Android, and been used to send more than 1bn photos. The company had 25 staff in March. The app was seeing fast growth among users, and had recently implemented a system which let users "bump" files to desktop or laptop computers.Writing on the Bump blog, its chief executive and cofounder David Lieb said thatOur mission at Bump has always been to build the simplest tools for sharing the information you care about with other people and devices.  We strive to create experiences that feel like magic, enabled behind the scene with innovations in math, data processing, and algorithms.  So we couldn't be more thrilled to join Google, a company that shares our belief that the application of computing to difficult problems can fundamentally change the way that we interact with one another and the world.He said that Bump and the Flock app, which allows people to create shared photo albums, "will continue to work as they always have for now".Bump uses a combination of apps running on the devices which "bump", and the company's own servers.In an FAQ, the company explains that "The app on your phone uses the phone's sensors to literally "feel" the bump, and it sends that info up to the cloud. The matching algorithm listens to the bumps from phones around the world and pairs up phones that felt the same bump. Then we just route information between the two phones in each pair." The app uses location information and sensor detail to determine which two devices which have sent a "bump" are in direct contact.By contrast, Apple's Airdrop is an ad-hoc peer-to-peer Wi-Fi network with encrypted file transfers, which does not route through outside servers, and so doesn't need an internet connection.
It's Tuesday. Or should I say, GTA DAY!
Tesco will unveil a new device - expected to be a low-priced own-brand entry into the tablet market - on 23 September. It has sent out invitations using the phrase "We've got something to show you" and using Tesco's new "Hudl" trademark.Ben Wood, mobile analyst with research firm CCS Insight, suggested that Tesco might try to price the device, expected to have a 7in screen, at £99."Obviously it'll be [running Google's mobile operating system] Android, probably [a storage capacity of] 16GB and attempting to hit the £99 price point -- in my mind that will have to be the price," Wood told the Guardian.Tesco might be able to hit the £99 price using a cashback-style promotion, Wood suggests: "I can see Tesco using substantial discounts on other services such as bundled media from Blinkbox, or vouchers for discounts on petrol or groceries through its ClubCard loyalty scheme."The tablet would take on competitors from the likes of Apple, Google and Amazon, and will be tailored to online shopping and video viewing - both areas where Tesco is looking to capitalise on its position.Wood said: "the tablet market is unbelievably competitive with extremely narrow margins, but that's something Tesco is used to." The 8GB Amazon Kindle Fire costs £99 from Amazon, while Google's newest Nexus 7 costs £199 for the 16GB model, while a 16GB version of Apple's iPad mini currently costs £269.The tablet market within the UK has exploded in the last few years, with tablet sales dominating the run up to Christmas. CCS Insight says that 8.3m tablets were sold in the UK in 2012, with more than half of sales coming in the last quarter of the year alone. The UK was Europe's biggest tablet market.Almost 6m tablets were sold in the first half of 2013, and demand is expected to accelerate into Christmas. A September launch would put Tesco's tablet device in prime spot for the Christmas sales, although price is likely to be a key issue, Wood said.Sources havepreviously indicatedthat Tesco's device will be a 7-inch device made by a Chinese manufacturer, and compete directly with Amazon's Kindle Fire HD and Google's Nexus 7. It would probably also include quick access to the Tesco-owned Blinkbox video-on-demand service, and Tesco's online shopping services.Tescoapplied for a trademark in Februaryfor the Hudl name to cover a wide range of goods, including tablets and accessories. The anticipated announcement, set for 23 September, follows a move to withdraw consumer electronics sales from Tesco stores, after the retailer's chief executivePhilip Clarke saidthat it would be scaling back on sales of products such as flat-screen TVs, as they "quite frankly take up a lot of space and [don't] take a lot of money."
US and UK security agencies' attempts to weaken encryption of online communications such as emails and social media are "shocking" and could work against the public interest by weakening critical infrastructure, a team of UK academics specialising in cryptography has warned.The group of 10 researchers warn that "by weakening all our security so that they can listen in to the communications of our enemies, [the agencies] also weaken our security against our potential enemies".The researchers, all specialists in cryptography, come from a number of universities andcomment in an open letteron therevelations published by the Guardian, New York Times and ProPublicabased on information from documents provided by Edward Snowden.These showed years-long efforts by the US National Security Agency (NSA) and Britain's GCHQ spy agency to weaken encryption systems so that they could tap emails and internet communications. There is also suspicion that the NSA has undermined the strength of encryption protocols developed by NIST, the US National Institute for Standards and Technology.Professor Ross Anderson, a security researcher at Cambridge University who is not one of the signatories, said that the publication had shocked some in academia who had thought that their work on encryption was of no interest to security services. "Ten days ago when the Guardian published its revelations about the NSA's skullduggery, it was a wake-up call for a lot of people. It's very, very creditable that Bristol's people have signed this letter," he told the Guardian. "This has been a 9/11 moment for the community, and it's great that some people are beginning to wake up."Last week NIST took the unusual – and unprecedented – step of "strongly" recommendingagainst the use of one of its own encryption standards"pending the resolution of the security concerns" that had been raised by the publication.The UK researchers called on "relevant parties" – which would include GCHQ – "to reveal what systems have been weakened so that they can be repaired, and to create a proper system of oversight".The biggest risk, they imply, is that civilian systems and infrastructure – perhaps including physical systems such as the power grid – could become vulnerable to attack by state-sponsored hackers who are capable of exploiting the same "backdoors" in software that have been planted there by the western agencies."In the modern age we all need to have complete trust in the basic infrastructure that we all use," note the researchers.The US and UK have already demonstrated that they can attack computer systems needed for physical infrastructure through their work on the Stuxnet virus, which took control of centrifuges used in Iran's nuclear refinement plant to make them run out of control. That is reckoned to have put Iran's plan to build an atomic bomb many months behind schedule. But variants of Stuxnet have been spotted being used to try to attack other physical infrastructure in other countries.• This article was amended on 18 September 2013. An earlier version said the open letter was signed by 10 researchers at Bristol University. The signatories were from a number of universities.
There has been a particular theory going round for the last year or so, that "box set" TV has replaced movies as the preferred form of mass, culturally meaningful entertainment. It is the likes of Breaking Bad, The Wire and Homeland that are telling us about modern life now, rather than Hollywood's simplified three-act confections. Grand Theft Auto V, however,hintsat a future in which that role is taken by games – or at the very least actively sought by them. Unlike the vast swathe of wondrous entertainment the video game industry produces, this series cannot be safely pigeon-holed or ignored by non-players. For the last decade, Rockstar has wielded a sledgehammer over public perceptions of what video games are or can be; now it has struck with merciless force.Set mostly within the glitzily superficial city of Los Santos, a warped mirror of Los Angeles, GTA V is a sprawling tale of criminal maniacs self-destructing on a blood-splattered career trajectory to hell. Michael is the middle-aged thug, obsessed with movies, who pulled a witness protection deal with the feds after a failed heist many years ago. When his old partner Trevor, a sociopath who bakes meth out in the desert, turns up in town, the two join forces with a young black kid, Franklin, who's set on leaving his gang-infested neighbourhood behind. The aim is a few final high-paying jobs, but there's a festering resentment between Trev and Michael that goes back a long way, a fizzing fuse that trails all the way through the carnage.This three-character format emancipates the narrative, jettisoning the awkward requirement for one protagonist to be everywhere, witnessing everything in this vast world. Switching between the characters can be done at any time while off mission, and all three have their own little pet projects to get involved with, adding variety and a few amusing surprises: switching to Trevor usually involves some bodily function or weird violent episode, while Michael has his dysfunctional family to manage. And overlaying all this is a huge plot about warring government agencies and corrupt billionaires.The result is a freewheeling joyride through genre cinema and literature: there are psychopathic mafia bosses, insane motorcycle gangs, xenophobically sketched triads, corrupt secret agents and cynical movie producers – their stories twist and interconnect, slithering around the lives of our protagonists. It's dizzying at times, but also daftly compelling, and the influence of multi-strand dramas such as The Wire is obvious.On a missionGTA 5: Trevor feels the HeatGTA veterans will still recognise how the game underneath it all works. There is a backbone of narrative missions that gamers must complete in order to progress, but beyond them is a vast range of dynamic encounters, side-quests and money-making ventures, from buying property to managing clubs and playing the stock exchange (which cleverly reacts to in-game events, allowing you to make extra cash by buying the right shares at the right time). Most story tasks are variations on one theme – drive somewhere, shoot something, drive back – but as with all video game feedback loops, the joy of the system is in the execution. And boy does GTA V execute.To say much more would be to ruin the fun of discovery, but rest assured there are insane stunts, there is massive destruction, there is military-grade weaponry, and you will be required to jump out of planes. And helicopters. Combining the sheer scale of the environment with the excellent physics engine, these escapades throw everything at you, from rural bank-heists to jet-ski chases, to operating huge industrial machinery. The bigger heists require mini-preparatory missions (hiding getaway cars, picking novelty masks) which help build the tension, and subtly add to the feeling that what we're all doing here is acting in our own version of Michael Mann's film Heat. While certain ideas are repackaged and chucked straight back at you several times, you're carried along on a rush of euphoric action and shock – mostly because the world looks and behaves as though all this makes sense.Satirical scopeGTA 5: sharp-suited MichaelIndeed, Rockstar North has built an extraordinary universe that functions not only as an exciting, diverse setting but also as a pulverising, nihilistic satire on western society. Reality TV, celebrity magazines, social media, plastic surgery, pop psychology books – all get savaged via the often hilarious commercials on the game's many radio and TV stations. Even games themselves get hit: an advert for Righteous Slaughter 7 promises "the realistic art of contemporary killing".This isn't just confined to extraneous detail, it slides into the narrative. At one point we see the offices of a giant social network, Lifeinvader, a spot-on amalgam of Facebook, Apple and Google. The staff all wear cargo shorts, whine on about organic lactose-free dairy products and treat their CEO with religious deference. We also get corrupt FBI and CIA agents (called FiB and IAA in the game), trading drugs and manufacturing terrorist threats to keep their budgets topped up. Everyone is on the make, everyone is dangerous, and the game delights in thrusting us into the middle of it as a willing participant.Gunfights, meanwhile, are furious, visceral ballets, fuelled by regular visits to the well-stocked Ammu-Nation stores. while GTA has learned a lot about organic environments from Red Dead Redemption (the rural areas of San Andreas are abuzz with wildlife), it has learned its game systems from Max Payne. The combat is ultra-smooth with a variety of decent, functional aiming options and a cover mechanic that works almost imperceptibly – the greatest compliment you can pay to this concept. Limited more by the player's imagination than by ability, most set-piece encounters are not overwhelmingly challenging, but they are spectacular - and this is the point. You have to understand that Grand Theft Auto V is not really a game about story or mechanics, even if it wants to be – it is a game about spectacle and experience.Forgivable flawsGTA 5: there's a lot of drivingThis is really important because it allows us to forgive the game's flaws. You have to do alotof driving. There are no shortcuts, so every mission involves hitting the highways to get to the trigger point; and yes sometimes you think "Ugh, not another car ride". Rockstar North has also developed a slightly irritating narrative trope that I'll call "the exposition expedition": there are a lot of long journeys that just seem to be there so that the lead characters can chat about back-story, or engage in meandering expletive-drenched conversations on pop culture and psychology – something we probably have Tarantino to thank for.Furthermore, the designers don't always make the rules of the system clear. Some missions will only end successfully if you carry out the correct action after a specific prompt, while others don't provide a prompt at all and then fail you if you miss the mandatory sweet spot. The game also has the habit of simultaneously providing mission instructions via in-game dialogue and an on-screen text prompt, which at the very least means you miss plot details, but at the worst means you can be left wondering what the hell you're supposed to do next because you paid attention to the wrong thing. Or at least that was my experience; others may be better at ludological multitasking.Women are, once again, relegated to supporting roles as unfaithful wives, hookers and weirdos. The one successful female character in the story is suspected of just wanting to screw her boss. Of course, GTA is essentially an interactive gangster movie, and the genre has a long history of investigating straight male machismo at the expense of all other perspectives, but it would have been wonderful to see Rockstar challenging that convention. It's fine to parody the idiotic misogyny of violent men, but how about doing it by providing their opposite? It seems Rockstar North's all-male writing team is too in thrall to Tarantino and Brett Easton Ellis to really consider this.Seductive visionGTA 5: Los Santos is glitzily superficialAh but… The genius of GTA V is in the sheer seductive force of its vision. The visuals are astonishing – just astonishing. Surely pushing this ageing hardware to the limits, we get the dense downtown with its soaring skyscrapers and murky, rubbish-strewn back alleys. But then out into the country, we have rolling grasslands and desert stretches, coyotes roaming, the shadows of eagles swooping overhead.The world drags you in. It begs you to explore – and then it rewards you. You feel every millimetre of the landscape has been thoughtfully handcrafted with the curious gamer in mind. This seems an odd compliment – surely every video game landscape is crafted in this way. But so often, open worlds are built from architectural filler – bland unending landscapes and cardboard box tenements. San Andreas is a state of contrasts and extraordinary detail, there is always some interesting new nook to chance on, some breathtaking previously unexperienced view across the hills toward the capitalist spires of downtown. Designers often talk about rewarding the player for exploration, but usually do so with facile Easter eggs, hidden away in mundane backwaters. From the raging rivers running through the mountain wilderness parks to the beautiful modernist architecture tucked way in the Vinewood hills, Grand Theft Auto V is – like Fallout and Skyrim before it – a form of virtual tourism.The talent too is in the emergent moments the system produces. Driving to a violent heist with Don Johnson's Heartbeat playing on the radio, the freeway clear before you; flying a crop-dusting plane up the contour of Mount Chiliad, so that you reach the peak just as the red sun falls, sending rainbows of lens flare through your cockpit screen; clipping a police car during a chase, sending your own vehicle spinning off the overpass onto the roof of an liquor store. All fun, all about you the player.Complicity and culpabilityGTA 5: explosive actionAnd however familiar the GTA set-up is, it still works. Blasting your way out of impossible face-offs with private armies, streaking through the city streets in a new car – some will hate the sheer amorality, the relentless seething darkness of the narrative.[Spoiler]Many too will be horrified by an interactive torture scene that pushes the player to perform acts of cruelty on a defenceless victim[spoiler ends]. But GTA is all about complicity and culpability – what is the player prepared to do in this world? How much are they responsible for? During the game, Michael makes several visits to a shrink, complaining that he feels someone else is controlling him. Rockstar wants to interrogate the relationship between player and game – or at least snigger at the psychopolitics of it all.Yes, some people will hate GTA V. Some, like me, will thoroughly enjoy it while acknowledging its complications, its shortcomings as a narrative adventure. Last of Us says more about humanity in five minutes than GTA V does in its 70-plus missions. Five stars for such a troubled proposition? That'll confuse and anger a few people, I know it. But no one constructs worlds like Rockstar and this one is worth many, many hours of exploration. It is fun, so much guilty, ridiculous fun. It is beautiful to look at, it is jammed with ideas, and when the free add-on, Grand Theft Auto Online, comes out in October, it will offer a compelling multiplayer experience, where participants combine and face off in gigantic turf wars.And then GTA V is also a monstrous parody of modern life – our bubbling cesspit of celebrity fixation, political apathy and morose self-obsession. I half expected it to end with the Houser brothers dressed as Papa Lazarou from League of Gentlemen staring into the camera and whispering seductively, "you all live in Los Santos now". But they don't need to, of course. This misanthropic masterpiece says it all for them.Tested on Xbox 360. Make sure you check out our video onthe making of the original Grand Theft Auto!
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 13 September 2013PositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (1)Saints Row IV (18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (34)42 (–)Kingdom Hearts HD 1.5 Remix (12+)PS3 (100)13 (3)Diablo Iii (16+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (34)PC (2)64 (4)Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Blacklist (18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (38)PC (2)Wii U (2)45 (5)Disney Infinity (7+)Xbox 360 (42)Wii (28)PS3 (20)Wii U (6)46 (6)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition (7+)Xbox 360 (100)127 (7)Payday 2 (18+)Xbox 360 (79)PS3 (21)58 (13)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes (7+)Xbox 360 (39)PS3 (21)Wii (18)3DS (10)629 (12)Lego The Lord Of The Rings (12+)Xbox 360 (40)PS3 (30)Wii (16)DS (7)3210 (2)Rome: Total War II (16+)PC (100)211 (–)NHL 14 (12+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (40)112 (17)Max Payne 3 (18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (47)PC (0)2513 (9)Rayman Legends (7+)Xbox 360 (33)PS3 (28)Wii U (24)Vita (15)314 (–)Assassin's Creed III (18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (40)4515 (8)Killzone: Mercenary (18+)Vita (100)216 (14)Fifa 13 (3+)Xbox 360 (39)PS3 (34)Vita (11)Wii (7)5117 (–)Need For Speed Most Wanted (7+)Xbox 360 (39)PS3 (31)VITA (18)Wii U (12)4018 (–)Far Cry 3 (18+)PS3 (45)Xbox 360 (51)PC (4)4019 (15)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II (18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (36)PC (1)Wii U (1)4320 (–)Grand Theft Auto IV (18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (39)63UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Samsung's Galaxy Gear smartwatch released earlier in September could be obsolete within months as it works on a new version. according to reports from Korea.The Gear was unveiled on 4 Septemberamid huge anticipation about the potential of "wearable computing"at the IFA show in Berlin.But early responses were lukewarm, with testers pointing to the stated battery life of just 25 hours, and the limited number of devices with which the Gear can communicate - presently just the Galaxy Note 3 "phablet" and Galaxy Note 10.1 tablet, though more are expected to be added.The launch was seen by some as having been rushed after rumours emerged earlier in the year that Apple was working on an "iWatch" - reckoned to be a smart watch of some form. That was reinforced after the US company registered the iWatch trademark in Japan, and last week described a new "M7" processor in its new top-end 5s iPhone which could be used to monitor movement.At the time of the Gear launch Ian Fogg, director for mobile and telecoms at research company IHS commented that the Gear was "a prototype masquerading as a commercial product—and because of that, it is unlikely to be successful in the market." He said that "the device exhibits multiple shortcomings, including a high price tag, a short battery life, its status as a companion device and its limited compatibility. The bottom line is the Galaxy Gear smartwatch probably will not succeed in the market and Samsung will need to try again with a more refined product."Other testers noted that there was a noticeable time lag in trying to operate the device's tiny touch screen, and that the menus were unintuitive. The inclusion of speakers, a microphone and a camera puzzled them - and the $299 price was criticised as too high.Now areport in Daum, based in Samsung's homeland of South Korea, suggests that the Galaxy Gear was "just the first… to determine the market reaction" and that an upgraded version, perhaps to be announced in January at the US Consumer Electronics Show (CES) or March's Mobile World Congress (MWC), would also offer location-based services via a built-in GPS chip.Samsung had not responded to a request for comment by publication time.The smartwatch and broader "wearable computing" categories are expected to become an important market. But analysts have been less persuaded by Samsung's launch into the market.IHS reckons that smartwatch shipments will hit 268,000 in 2013, of which a large number will be from the Californian company Pebble, which has shipped more than 100,000 units and is on sale in a number of US retail chains, and Sony, which has launched its second-generation smartwatch.IHS says that shipments will rise sharply in 2014, but only to 2.6m units. "In the longer term, shipments are expected to reach much higher volumes, with units rising to nearly 39m units in 2018," it notes.
When Tim Berners-Lee was designing the technology that has transformed our world, he looked for a noun that would describe what he had in mind. The one he eventually settled on was "web", which is how the world wide web got its name.To its inventor, the noun must have seemed perfectly apposite: it described the intricate, organic linking of sites and pages that he had in mind. But "web" has other, metaphorical, connotations. Webs are things that spiders weave with the aim of capturing prey. And if you want a metaphor for thinking about where we are now with networked technology, here's one to ponder.Imagine a gigantic, global web in which are trapped upwards of two billion flies. Most of those unfortunate creatures don't know – yet – that they are trapped. After all, they wandered cheerfully, willingly, into the web. Some of them even imagine that they could escape if they wanted to.We are those insects. The only way of escaping our predicament is to renounce the world in the way that Trappist monks once did. Since we're not going to do that, we have to face the reality: we're trapped in a system in which everything we do is monitored and logged and in which privacy is a thing of the past. Everything that you do with modern communications equipment leaves a digital trail. And this trail is followed assiduously not just by giant corporations, but also by governments and their security services – as vividly illustrated by the revelations ofEdward Snowden.What's astonishing is how unconcerned many people appear to be about this. Is it because they are unaware of the extent and comprehensiveness of the surveillance? Or is it some weird manifestation ofStockholm syndrome– that strange condition in which prisoners exhibit positive feelings towards their captors? What we've learned above all from the Snowden leaks is that the scale and capability of the NSA surveillance are much greater than anyone imagined. Most people had assumed that most non-encrypted communications were vulnerable and some speculated that some encrypted communications (eg&nbsp;Skype) had a hidden backdoor for the NSA. But nobody realised that, asthe latest revelationsshowed,allthe encryption technologies routinely used to protect online transactions (https, SSL, VPN and 4G encryption), plus anything going through Google, Microsoft, Facebook and Yahoo, have been cracked.What this means is that no form of electronic communication handled by commercial companies can now be assumed to be secure. In that sense, the NSA has reallyfouled the nest of the US internet industry. And it is evensuspectedthat about 90% of communications routed through the TOR network are using encryption that may also have been hacked by the NSA. What can you do if you're someone who feels uneasy about being caught in this web? The honest answer is that there's no comprehensive solution: if you are going to use telephones (mobile or landline) and the internet then you are going to leave a trail. But there are things you can do to make your communications less insecure and your trail harder to follow. Here are 10 ideas you might consider.1EmailRethink your email setup. Assume that all "free" email and webmail services (Gmail etc) are suspect. Be prepared to pay for a service, such asFastmail,that is not based in the US – though some of its servers are in New York with backups in Norway. (My hunch is that more non-US email services will appear as entrepreneurs spot the business opportunity created by the Snowden revelations.) It would also be worth checking that your organisation has not quietly outsourced its email and IT systems to Google or Microsoft – as many UK organisations (including newspapers and universities) have.The real difficulty with email is that while there are ways of keeping the content of messages private (see encryption), the "metadata" that goes with the message (the "envelope", as it were) can bevery revealing, and there's no way of encrypting that because its needed by the internet routing system and is available to most security services without a warrant.2EncryptionEncryption used to be the sole province of geeks and mathematicians, but a lot has changed in recent years. In particular, various publicly available tools have taken the rocket science out of encrypting (and decrypting) email and files.GPG for Mail, for example, is an open source plug-in for the Apple Mail program that makes it easy to encrypt, decrypt, sign and verify emails using theOpenPGP standard. And for protecting files, newer versions of Apple's OS X operating system come withFileVault, a program that encrypts the hard drive of a computer. Those running Microsoft Windows have a similarprogram. This software will scramble your data, but won't protect you from government authorities demanding your encryption key under the Regulation ofInvestigatory Powers Act (2000), which is why some aficionados recommendTrueCrypt, a program with some very interesting facilities, which might have been useful toDavid Miranda.3Web browsingSince browsing is probably what internet users do most, it's worth taking browser security and privacy seriously. If you're unhappy that your clickstream (the log of the sites you visit) is in effect public property as far as the security services are concerned, you might consider using freely available tools such asTor Browserto obscure your clickstream. And to protect yourself against the amazingly brazen efforts by commercial companies to track your online behaviour you should, at the very minimum, configure your browser so that itrepels many of these would-be boarders.4Cloud servicesThe message of the Snowden revelations is that you should avoid all cloud services (Dropbox, iCloud, Evernote, etc) that are based in the US, the UK, France and other jurisdictions known to be tolerant of NSA-style snooping. Your working assumption should be that anything stored on such systems is potentially accessible by others. And if you must entrust data to them, make sure it's encrypted.5File storage and archivingAn option that an increasing numbers of people are exploring is running their own personal cloud service using products such asPogoPlugandTransporterthat provide Dropbox-type facilities, but on internet connected drives that you own and control. And if you carry around confidential data on a USB stick, make sure it's encrypted using TrueCrypt.6Social networkingDelete your Facebook account. Why do theCIA's workfor it? And if you must use it, don't put your date of birth on your profile. Why give identity thieves an even break? And remember that, no matter what your privacy settings, you don't have control over information about you that is posted by your "friends".7Location dataAvoid using services such as FourSquare that require location information.8Wireless servicesHave Bluetooth off by default in all your mobile devices. Only switch it on when you explicitly need to use it. Otherwise you'll find thateven a dustbin can snoop on it. Similarly, beware of using open wifi in public places. At the very minimum, make sure that any site you interact with uses HTTPS rather than unencrypted HTTP connections. If you don't then anyone nearby can useFiresheepto see everything you're doing.9Personal securityForget password, think passphrase – ie a meaningless sentence that you will remember – and do some transformations on it (first and third letters of every word maybe) so that you can generate a stronger password from it every time. Or use a password-management app likeLastPassor1Password. And if a service offersmulti-factor authentication, make use of it.10Search enginesAll the big search engines track your search history and build profiles on you to serve you personalised results based on your search history. if you want to escape from this "filter bubble" you need to switch to a search engine that does not track your inquiries. The most obvious one is the bizarrely named but quite effectiveDuckDuckGo.
"You see your son is totally absorbed, hunched over the family laptop. You steal a look over his shoulder, and what would please you more: to see him playing Angry Birds, or coding?"Thewords of education secretary Michael Goveearlier this year, in a speech that took a further potshot at the thought of children who "while away hours flinging electronic fowl at virtual pigs".Perhaps he's more of a Candy Crush Saga man. Unsurprisingly, there was no role for Angry Birds in Gove's plans to reform the UK's national curriculum, but his comments were disappointing for two reasons.First: for the assumption that playing a popular game and learning to code were mutually exclusive activities, and ignoring the possibility that the former could lead to the latter, with the right resources and encouragement.Second: what Gove's speechwriters thought was a witty rhetorical jab at an easy scapegoat belied a lack of awareness of the educational ambitions of Rovio, the company behind Angry Birds, which have been public for some time.The company has worked with the likes of National Geographic, NASA and the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) on science-related books and educational materials around past Angry Birds games, but now it's launching something more ambitious called Angry Birds Playground.Developed in partnership with the University of Helsinki and based on the Finnish national curriculum, it's an educational programme covering maths, science, music, language, arts and crafts, physical education and social interaction.Aimed at children around "kindergarten" age in Finland – around six years old – the programme's materials will include books, posters, game cards, a five-string instrument and physical games as well as digital content.The programme was unveiled in China last week, where it will be launching first in a Shanghai early-learning centre."It's not just games we're talking about here: it's a full 360-degree approach to learning, where games are just one part of it. It's not learning by sitting down and playing with a digital device," says Sanna Lukander, Rovio's vice president of learning and book publishing."There's a real substance to it, and a healthy balance between rest, play and work. We feel it's necessary to talk about healthy nutrition and physical exercise, as part of this approach to learning, balance and wellbeing."The University of Helsinki will remain involved with Angry Birds Playground, training teachers to use the programme, incorporating their feedback into future versions of it, and researching how effective it is.It's about more than just exporting Angry Birds in educational clothes, then: this is about Finland exporting its educational philosophy and expertise, and using a popular brand to do it."We're not just putting a sticker on something, We're combining two brands. One is Angry Birds with its global reach and people recognising the characters and being motivated to learn more," says Lukander."But the other brand is a long legacy of work done in Finland by educational experts, and beautiful co-operation between the authorities, schools and book publishers."She also stresses that digital games are just one element of Angry Birds Playground, with board games, sports and physical activities taking a high priority alongside elements that even a traditionalist education secretary might appreciate."We are studying the formats of the content carefully. We certainly believe a traditional book is good for certain parts, and also that it's important for children to use pen and paper," says Lukander."We also want the children to start learning about music through composing themselves, so we have the five-string instrument. It's a real instrument, not a toy. We already see them enjoying the feeling that they can accomplish something, and of music as something composed by people."Digital elements will range from games and mobile content through to collaborative activities designed for interactive whiteboards in classrooms.Rovio's Sanna Lukander, talking at an event in London earlier in 2013. Photo: Stuart DredgePlans beyond China? Rovio is talking to a mixture of public schools (in the non-UK sense of the phrase) and private-sector companies, with the mix varying from country to country depending on the educational system."What's most interesting is to promote the very open and wonderful dialogue that the Finnish authorities have with schools and textbook publishers," says Lukander."There are countries where the authorities take the decisions and let people in schools know how things should be run, but here we have an open dialogue, and work on the national curriculum together."Meanwhile, Rovio will continue the other side of its book publishing business, working with partners like National Geographic on Angry Birds books that include educational content.That company is releasinga new "Science Behind the Saga" bookthis week, for example, tying in with the release of Rovio's Angry Birds Star Wars II game for smartphones and tablets."I love the Society and working with their books department: they really know how to tell stories with a twist that engages children," says Lukander, emphasising again that Rovio's books business is more than a licensing cash-in.That is the key point about something like Angry Birds Playground, though: the fact that however serious its educational intent is, the programme is also promoting a series of paid games and its hundreds of commercial spin-offs.I suspect it will be a divisive issue for parents and teachers alike: some seeing it as unacceptable commerce in the classroom, and others seeing it as a pragmatic attempt to use children's favourite characters to help them learn as well as play.Is Rovio concerned about Angry Birds Playground being seen as just another way to sell the Angry Birds brand?"It's definitely something that has to be discussed, because that's not how I see it. I see the characters as engaging and motivating, because I work on the publishing side," says Lukander."We have authors writing beautiful stories about these characters and their world. I see them as literature. And some characters that are born from literature may also have some commercial aspects attached to them later on. I don't see that as any kind of threat."She points to Harry Potter and – in Finland – the Moomins as existing examples of popular literary characters being used in schools to get children reading stories, and talking about some of the issues they raise."I could understand the concern if people thought we had the wrong people working on education content, but we have educational specialists working on this," says Lukander."This is not a licensing thing, and Rovio is not a games company any more. It's a media company, and like many other media companies, it has an educational arm. We're trying to do something meaningful and good with these characters."
1	Going for goldTheiPhone 5s is the true next-generation iPhone, in a choice of gold, white and black. It is more expensive at a SIM-free price of £549, £629 and £709 for the 16GB, 32GB and 64GB models, with the leather case costing £35. But it's the 5s that has all the new hardware features.2 	C is for ColourfulThe iPhone 5c is essentially last year's iPhone 5 in more colourful clothing. It has a larger battery and better front-camera than the iPhone 5, and its SIM-free price will be £469 for the 16GB model and £549 for the 32GB model when it goes on sale on 20 September.3	When I'm 64-bitApple is shouting about its A7 processor and its "desktop-class" 64-bit computing capabilities. The company claims it's twice as fast at CPU and graphics tasks, with an emphasis on bigger, richer games. Expect overuse of the phrase "console-quality" from developers.4	Whirled in motionThe iPhone 5's innards also include an M7 "motion coprocessor" designed to collect data from its accelerometer, gyroscope and compass. This is big news for health apps tracking your activity throughout the day, although possibly not-so-good news for companies likeFitbitwho make external gadgets to measure it.5	Prints charmingThe iPhone 5s has a fingerprint sensor built into its Home button. It scans your fingerprint and stores it, so you can unlock the phone and authorise iTunes/App Store purchases with a touch.6	Picture thisApple has improved the camera in the 5s, but not with more megapixels. Instead, it sports a better lens and sensor to let in more light, better colour and less noise. The flash is smarter too.7	Buy one, get five apps freeApple has traditionally charged for its flagship Keynote, Pages, Numbers, iPhoto and iMovie iOS apps. Now it's making them all free for people buying any new iOS device – iPad and iPod touch included.8	Deadly 7Hardware is good, but it's Apple's new software that holds the most changes.iOS 7debuts on 18 September with a new look and new features. More battery-efficient multitasking; a much better Photos app; AirDrop to ping photos, videos and contacts to nearby iOS devices; and a smarter Siri that can now access Twitter.9	Apps for that…Developers got their hands on an early version of iOS 7 in June, and have been working on their apps accordingly. Expect a flurry of updates around the 18th making use of the software's new features.10	Radio rocksOne of iOS 7's other big features is iTunes Radio, a music app that serves up radio-like streams of songs based on artists or genres. It'll be free but for now it'll only be available in the US.• The headline and intro on this article were amended on 15 Septemberto reflect that this article is not a review
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWant an NSA.org email address? That'll be $100 &gt;&gt; MashableThe owner of the NSA.org domain is selling email addresses and subdomains (think edwardsnowden.nsa.org) to anyone willing to pay $100 — what he calls a "bargain price."The man behind the site, Chris Fisher, is a 40-year-old IT consultant who registered the domain in 1995, because he was involved in the hack scene and "it was a fun domain to irc [an Internet chat protocol] from for trash talking and bustups with rival hackers (yeah, LOL)," he told Mashable via email.(Thanks #ClarkeViper for the link.)Apple's new iPhone deals a blow to NFC &gt;&gt; WSJ Digits blogWith 40% of the US smartphone market, Apple commands a large lead over other handset makers, according to Nielsen data. Its mobile operating system and app store are influential among application developers."It's definitely troublesome for any developer looking to support NFC that it is not in the iPhone," said Jordan McKee, an analyst with researcher Yankee Group. "It's not going to reach massive scale without Apple adopting NFC."Though nearly every other major smartphone maker has models with NFC capability, a recent Yankee Group survey found that just 18% of US consumers have such handsets, said McKee.NFC has been slow to catch on in part because it isn't any easier than a credit-card swipe, and because not enough stores accept the technology. According to Gartner analyst Mark Hung, fewer than 100,000 NFC-enabled readers are in use in the US, which compares with near-ubiquity for traditional credit-card readers.Meanwhile, early NFC adopters like BlackBerry and Nokia have seen their handset sales decline. An effort by Google to create a digital wallet linked to NFC chips in some Sprint phones has slowed as other carriers favour their own NFC joint venture called Isis, which is only available in two US cities.In a year's time, the US might see more commerce via fingerprint and Bluetooth than NFC. (That 18%  for NFC-enabled handsets seems low.)"Patent troll" claiming playlists and podcasts scores license with SanDisk &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaSome patent trolls hide in the shadows, avoiding reporters and setting up complex mazes of shell companies to avoid scrutiny. James Logan, the owner of Personal Audio LLC, isn't like that.His company got a little blip of publicity back in 2011, when it won an$8m jury verdictagainst Apple. But it became truly infamous earlier this year when it startedtelling podcastersthat they had to pay up for a license to its patents. But Logan didn't back down from telling his story. When NPR'sThis American Lifeand Planet Money ran more stories about patent trolls this summer, theyfeaturedan interview with Logan in which he defended his practice. Then Logan even went "into the lion's den," fielding aquestion-and-answer sessionat Slashdot. Logan had a business sending people audio tapes by mail back in the 1990s, which he says gave him critical intellectual property rights that justify his request for money from podcasters.Inventor of liquid soap, Robert R. Taylor, dies &gt;&gt; The AustralianHe planned to begin selling through his small company, Village Bath Products, but realised that if it caught on, home products manufacturers such as Johnson &amp; Johnson, where he had once worked, would copy the soap-in-a-pump-bottle idea and quickly put him out of business.So he leveraged his company for every penny it was worth, $US12m, and bought 100m little bottle hand-pumps from the only two US manufacturers that made them.It created a back order so huge that the businesses couldn't make pumps for anybody else for more than a year, giving Taylor's brand time to become established…In six months, he had sold $US25 million worth of SoftSoap. Earlier this year the industry trade publication Inc Magazine declared his cornering of the hand-pump market one of the three shrewdest business moves ever made.(Here are the other two.)The iPhone 5C was never meant for China; it was meant to make the iPhone 5 obsolete &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaCharlie Custer:I'm no big Apple fan, and I think the company is perpetually behind the curve when it comes to China, but it can't possibly be so stupid as to think a $700 phone was going to help it corner China's budget phone market, a market thatit would have been stupid for Apple to try to enterin the first place. In fact, I think if any of yesterday's phones was targeted at China specifically, it was the gold iPhone 5S. The iPhone is a sort of status symbol in China, and while the idea of a gold iPhone may seem tacky to some, it's going to have some appeal to users in China who buy their phones primarily to show off around town, not because of the internal specs.Import duties also mean that grey market imports will be popular.Michael Dell says he's not taking company back into the phone business &gt;&gt; AllThingsDMichael Dell has lots of plans for his soon-to-be-privately-held company. But getting back into the mobile phone business is apparently not on the list."We're not getting in the mobile phone business," Dell said in an interview with CNBC on Friday.Instead, Dell said, the company will look to benefit from the mobile market in other ways."Every time a new mobile company gets born, they need servers and infrastructure and storage," Dell told CNBC. "Companies need to protect and secure their data on these mobile devices."Significantly, tablets will be in the mix.Apple is WAY ahead of the rest of the industry, but I'm sticking with Android. Here's why. &gt;&gt; The Next WebRobert Scoble:I think this is why Apple didn't announce its iWatch. Or a new Apple TV. It also explains why iBeacon was underplayed. Apple is holding the coolest "personal cloud" tech for when it's needed: next February when Google will announce Google Glass and a few other things.Apple needs those to take away the oxygen supply from Google Glass. If it fails to take away the oxygen supply then it has opened up a new way for Google to lever users off of Apple's ecosystem.US-centric, but well-argued. His reason for why he's staying with Android is solid too.64-bit processors and 4GB of memory coming in 2014 &gt;&gt; Android AuthorityHowever when in 64-bit mode the Cortex-A50 series processors offer increased performance due to the its 64-bit features which include 64-bit general purpose registers, that increase performance and reduces stack use; 64k pages, that reduce page miss rates and reduce the depth of page walks; and double precision floating point SIMDs, which will be mainly useful in High Performance Computing (HPC) setups.Ah, so 64-bit processing can be useful in a smartphone. Got it.Motorola bashes Apple's iPhone fingerprint reader, forgets it sold one first &gt;&gt; ForbesAndy Greenberg:"Remember that one time you were stoked to give your fingerprints? Us either," [Motorola's]tweetreads.That comment, perhaps alluding to privacy fears that Apple might be assembling a database of users' fingerprints, may strike readers as a little odd. And not just because Apple has carefully emphasized in its marketing that all fingerprint data from Touch ID will be stored locally on the phone and never uploaded to a remote server; Also because Motorola's own flagship phone of 2011, the Atrix, offered a fingerprint reader long before Apple. The Atrix, which is still being sold by Motorola today, integrates its fingerprint reader into the wake button on the back of the handset.The Atrix is still on sale? Anyhow, Greenberg has asked Motorola where and how it stores the fingerprint. And one commenter says the reader element died "after a few months". Best forgotten, perhaps.Samsung Galaxy NX review: Verdict &gt;&gt; TechRadarAmy Davies:The Galaxy NX is a camera that we want to like, but unfortunately it seems like it's just not finished yet.While the images from it are undeniably good, getting those images can be problematic thanks both to usability quirks and the random dropping of images when processing.If you can see past these problems you've then got the huge asking price for the camera. For the same price, you can get some seriously impressive kit from other brands, so it's incredibly difficult to recommend spending this kind of money on something which clearly has a lot of work left to do.2.5 stars out of 5, apparently.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Many of fashion's biggest brands are still scared to experiment with digital technologies, former Topshop marketing chief Justin Cooke has claimed, warning that brands without a strong digital vision will struggle in the future."Fashion was quite slow to pick up on [technology]," he said. "Particularly in luxury, they were very scared of digital in the beginning – still a lot of people are."Cooke, who was also a vice-president at Burberry, attempted to bring the two worlds together with an ambitious Topshop project that saw models such as Cara Delevingne hit the runway wearing HD cameras, while online followers could customise the collections in real time.Until February this year, the biannual London Fashion Week shows would typically attract less than 50,000 people. But apartnership with Google, which used YouTube video and the Google+ social tool, claimed to have reached 4 million viewers for the Autumn/Winter 2013 show in February, said Cooke.Although digital has been key on the agenda for fashion houses in the last few years, Cooke warns that companies need to be consistent and not rely on the "double spikes" fashion week provides every year. One of his favourite talking points is that data is a powerful tool to personalise and engage viewers."One of the first things I pioneered at Topshop was creating the first ever live customisation of the catwalk. This technology allowed viewers to change the colour of a look coming down the runway which kept them on the site for longer," says Cooke. "But perhaps more importantly you get real time insights from your customers of what shapes and colours they love the most which is very powerful."Cooke, who likes to think of digital opportunities as providing a sprinkling of magic to the traditional customer experience, showed the power of using data to personalise with Topshop's latest Christmas message.By calculating the top 100 most popular names in their mailing list, they were able to record actress Kate Bosworth saying each individual name, which then was inserted to the generic message, delivered to each corresponding Topshop fan.Amongst the schedules of catwalk shows and presentations organised for the five day fashion event, digital has increasingly emerged as a trend to watch at London Fashion Week. The appointment of Net-a-Porter founder, Natalie Massenet as chairman of the British Fashion Council (BFC) a year ago certainly added to the focus on digital innovation.  Speaking on the topic of London Fashion Week, Massenet told Vogue earlier this week that "Our visual message will travel digitally to let people all over the world feel the excitement - and that drives desire and sales,"With technology fast becoming one of the fundamental pillars of the bi-annual fashion event, the competition is on for designers and brands to bring a touch of digital to their shows. This season will see Topshop partner with the Chirp app, which allows users to share content via soundwaves. Clements Ribeiro, meanwhile, announced an entirely digital presentation to coincide with the launch of their new website.Ambitious plans by the British Fashion Council include live streaming multiple catwalk shows, for the first time, directly to the official Twitter account and giving London commuters their fashion fix via a weekly #FashionFriday news bulletin on underground platform screens - all designed to open up an exclusive industry event to the public.As the new collections of some of the world's best known designers are unveiled in the coming days, coverage of the event will inevitably focus on the buzz created on Twitter and across social media platforms.So has technology finally become cool in the fashion world? "Both industries thrive on being the first to market," explains Cooke. "It's all about developing trends and predicting what people want and I think it marries very well together."When fashion met tech:• Burberry announced plans to collaborate with Apple to use its new iPhone 5S to take and share pictures during and after its Spring/Summer 2013 show.• Topshop's flagship store in Oxford Circus has been playing host to a Chirp and Twitter garden that shoppers can walk through and receive exclusive content about the catwalk show. Fans of the store will also be able to shop make up looks and the soundtrack to the show in real time on the website.• Grazia has launched #Grazia360, multi-platform content, focusing on Giles Deacon during London Fashion Week with Youtube, Instagram, Pinterest and Facebook channels all showing behind-the-scenes-content.• The BFC is live streaming 29 catwalk shows directly to its Twitter feed including Burberry, Mulberry and Paul Smith.• A specially designed 'Instabooth' open to the public in the Somerset House courtyard allows Instagram and style fans to capture images of their look which they can then share or print out as souvenirs.• Launched earlier this month, #FashionFriday by the BFC, will bring a little bit of the industry to commuters as news bulletins are displayed on the London Underground.
Happy Monday! What are you up to?
Price£95,000MPG313Top speed99mphA supercar on the streets of Chelsea barely gets a second look these days, but the two young men in front of us in red jeans, sockless loafers and surprisingly tight Hawaiian shirts are standing slack jawed on the pavement. "Hugo, what the hell is that?" one bellows at the other. Hugo has no idea and sticks his  head in the window. "What's this, buddy?" he asks of Peter Wouda,  one of VW's brightest talents, who is over from the firm's design HQ in Potsdam to show off his new baby. "It's theXL1," Peter replies in flawless English. Hugo looks impressed and then asks what it runs on, pushing his floppy fringe off his face. But before Peter can reply he guffaws: "Cham-bloody-pagne!"We are driving the world's cleanest and most fuel-efficient production car. It's a miracle of super-lightweight performance engineering. Its diesel-electric hybrid engines give it a fuel consumption of 313 miles per gallon – that's 10 times the figure an average car achieves. While hitting this astronomical target it emits a piffling 21g of carbon per km. Ironically, that is the same amount generated by a cyclist.The ultra-frugal XL1 looks like a&nbsp;vision of the future, but it is already in limited production. So far 50 have been manufactured in Volkswagen's Osnabrück factory (which also produces the Golf Cabriolet and the Porsche Boxster) and there are immediate plans to make 200, though that could soon rise to 5,000. Peter explains: "They will be made to be sold and driven – they are not for collectors. But the XL1 is mostly about technology that will make its way down into our regular cars."The body is made of carbon-fibre reinforced polymer and is created from a single monocoque mould. This one-piece construction, a&nbsp;sort of exoskeleton, makes the car stronger and lighter as it supports loads through its skin – like a table-tennis ball. The drivetrain melds a two-cylinder 800cc diesel with a tiny electric motor.The twin forces which shaped this car are weight and aerodynamics. Everything possible has been done to optimise these two. It doesn't have electric windows, for instance, as hand winders weigh less. There are no wing mirrors as these create drag. Instead, tiny rear-facing cameras transmit an image on to a screen on the door panels. The car has fared-in wheels, skinny tyres and an entirely flat bottom. The extreme tear-drop shape makes it incredibly "slippery". If the tail had been followed to a tapered tip it would have been 7m long – a perfect sperm-like shape, agrees Peter. The entire car, including two engines, crash protection, sat nav, radio, etc, weighs in at less than 800kg. That's featherweight.Inside, the XL1 looks remarkably normal. The car is so radical and challenging that Peter and his team wanted the interior to be familiar, calm and uncluttered. Much of the kit is the same as you'd find in a Golf.To drive it doesn't feel alien or peculiar. It zips along, it's easy to manoeuvre, it's fun. When the diesel kicks in it barks like a&nbsp;"little terrier in the boot". It sounds odd to say this, but this most ultramodern, dynamic, game-changing, avant-garde, frugal Dougal of a vehicle – a&nbsp;time traveller into the future of motoring – feels instantly familiar and congenial.  And, somehow, that is very comforting. Champagne all round!Reading this on mobile? See the video of the XL1 driving through London hereEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.uk. Follow Martin on Twitter@MartinLove166
What's the story?Nintendo stays loyal totried and tested franchises, leaving smaller developers free to be more experimental for its platforms. Hence, while Swedish studio Image &amp; Form has set this 3DS game in the same robot-dominated western world asSteamWorld: Tower Defense(DSi), the play is completely different: a mix of mining, RPG-style levelling and puzzle platforming.GameplayRusty the steambot is the miner for a tiny tumbleweed town. Work is simple but satisfying as you start off: grab your pickaxe and dig a zigzag path, collecting treasure along the way. As you go deeper, however, complications begin to arise. Tougher rocks yield only to more expensive tools and caves hide their treasures within tricky puzzles.Highs and lowsThose looking for a deep plot should look elsewhere, but t he simplicity of tunnelling for treasure is perfect for the morning commute and the puzzles provide the occasional brief workout that the brain needs. The writing is light but funny and the choice of how to spend your earnings is interesting but not too complicated.The verdictAlthough a relatively cheap – and  short – game, Swedish studio Image &amp; Form has managed to pack several kinds of play into its few hours. Best of all, the underground world is procedurally generated, so once you beat the final boss, you can begin all over again with a fresh new mine, through which to dig, delve and discover.
Do you use your wrists much these days? Not for keeping your hands attached but for technology purposes. Do you still wear a watch? Or one of those exercise tracking wristbands? Or one of those crazy-fake-science-victory-crystal wrist things some sportspeople wear? Well, whatever, you'd better get ready, because your wrist is about to become contested techno-media space, like your living room, your pocket or your bag.You might have missed Samsung's announcement of its Galaxy Gear "smart watch". You won't be able to miss it whenApple launches its iWatch. Soon smart watches will be a market you'll need to have an opinion on. There will be ads everywhere, people ostentatiously flicking their wrists in pubs and John Humphrys not seeing the point on theTodayprogramme. And he won't be alone.Pundits will point at the long history of failed and foolish smart watches, they'll bang on about battery power and scoff about prices. Maybe they'll be right, but perhaps watches now are like MP3 players before the iPod or portable stereos before the Walkman. We can all sort of see what they might be like, but until they work really well we won't completely understand their possibilities. Now, for instance, smart watches are imagined as tiny smartphones stuck on our wrists, but the genius of the Walkman wasn't just about miniaturisation: it was also about creating a new behaviour – private listening in a public space.Indeed there's no particular reason why we'll be working these things via screens; we've already got plenty of those and the gadget companies are working hard to find other ways to communicate. We might end up talking to our watches and they'll probably talk back. Perhaps the concert hall of the future won't be ruined by penetrating ringtones but by a thousand tiny speakers muttering the smart watch equivalent of "this vehicle is turning left" or "unexpected item in the bagging area".Equally, it's possible we won't be using our watches to make calls or manage our contacts. Just as iPhone games fill those gaps when we're commuting, maybe smartwatch games will fill the even smaller gaps while we're waiting by the photocopier. Or we'll use them as better medical alert bracelets, or as combination passwords and keys, or as pedometers. Or someone will work out how to do really tiny porn.These new possibilities will then obscure the failings we now imagine will be deal-breakers. Androids and iPhones, for instance, have laughably meagre battery life compared to the slightly less smart phones that preceded them, but we barely notice that any more. We adapt, we adopt new practices because the tradeoffs seem worth it. Maybe smart watches will be good enough that we won't mind having to charge them on our bedside tables every night.Then new behaviours will pop out everywhere. I've had an early attempt at a smart watch – the Pebble – for a while. If I get a message on my phone it also pops out on my watch. I thought this would be good for meetings: you could discreetly check your message without looking as if you were not paying attention. But then, of course,  I realised that glancing at my watch was no better; it just looked as if I was bored.We'll adapt new etiquette for behaviour like this, just as we'll invent amusing new names for the new accidents we'll have crossing the street glued to our wrists.Most watches have been pointless for years; arguing about utility is ridiculous. Anyone paying more than £8 for a watch is not buying anything better at telling the time. If you want accuracy you should buy a Mr Jones watch; it sells a handsome model that carries on its hands the simple message: Remember, You Will Die. But if you want a visceral feeling for time passing get a smart watch and  see how quickly it becomes obsolete.Russell M Davies is a writer and technology strategist
What's the story?Rayman goes Rip Van Winklein this hotly anticipated adventure. While gaming's strangest hero has been enjoying a century-long nap with his pals, living nightmares of a dreaming wizard have spread across the land, capturing the Teenies and imperilling all existence. Cue another gorgeously animated platforming romp to rescue the dreamfolk and right wrongs.GameplayFor all thatLegendslooks like a basic run-jump-punch affair, cracking the daunting 120 levels and unlocking the bonus content will take great skill. Assistant character Murfy takes centre stage in the Wii U's Gamepad sections, where play shifts to manipulating the levels, while multiplayer and community challenges keep the game fresh long after completion.Highs and LowsThere's little to dislike inLegends. From sublime level design, constantly offering something new, to artistry that rivals big-screen animated movies, the game is a delight. You could call the volume of content to play through overwhelming, but that would be a churlish gripe for such a fine title.The verdictRaymanLegendsdoes what Nintendo has largely failed to do so far – provide a compelling reason to buy a Wii U. Layered on top of its brilliant 2D cavorting are gameplay features that make full use of the touch, motion, and offscreen play functions, in ways that are genuinely fun. A joyous experience.
What's the story?This is unmarred bydevelopment issues – it was originally intended as a downloadable add-on forSaints Row: The Thirdand its previous publisher THQ went bankrupt. Fortunately, however, what we have is a fully fledged open-world action-adventure game as good as its predecessors, if not  better.GameplayFive years after the previous game, the leader of the Saints gang – a highly customisable character  – is now president of the United States. When aliens abduct the "best and brightest" of humanity, they throw the president into a simulation of the city of Steelport. Escape is a matter of causing mayhem, with cars, guns, and superpowers.Highs and lowsThe ability to run faster than cars and jump higher than buildings is as fun as it sounds, though it can cause the occasional glitch. But what sets the game apart is its sense of humour as it pokes fun at rival games.Grand Theft AutoandBurnoutaside, you'll also spot references toMass Effect,Metal Gear Solidand all those generic military shooters.The verdictIt seemed hard to imagine that thisseries could get any sillier, but the simulation context has raised the bar for absurdity and justified the destructive way players like to approach these kinds of games. With that new environment balanced with appearances from people and places from the previous games, newcomers and fans alike will appreciate the experience.
What's the story?Set in the wake ofthe originalKillzone,Mercenarysits as a sort of background story to the war against the Nazi-like Helghast armies. Playing soldier of fortune Arran Danner, your missions aren't fuelled by altruism or conquest, but cold hard cash. It's a game defined by shifting allegiances and while this won't win awards for the storyline, it's deeper than expected.GameplayThe usual shooty-shooty-blam-blam gets an overhaul, by virtue of developer Guerilla Cambridge making exceptional use of the Vita's features. The dual-stick controls are a big factor, but the touchscreen is also implemented naturally, with swiping for takedowns and brutal executions giving a visceral, tactile element.Highs and lowsMercenary's great innovation – compared with its stablemates – is the ability to shift weapon loadouts on the fly. It's an intuitive process, enabling quick modification of playstyle as the challenge mounts. Multiplayer, with an uninspired assortment of deathmatches and team objectives, offers few surprises, but those who've sunk time into the solo game will enjoy testing their skills competitively.The verdictDespite the game being a largely unreconstructed dose of weapon-fetishising weapon-fetishising machismo, this is far and away the best shooter on Vita. Compared to the likes ofBlack Ops: Declassified, it's not got terribly stiff competition there, but the winning combination of home-console quality gameplay, impressive hardware use and a narrative that cleverly explores the lore of the Killzone universe makesMercenarya compelling entry.
What's the story?The first Wii U exclusivefrom  Platinum Games, but the studio that madeBayonettaandMetal Gear Rising: Revengeancehas managed  to stick to what it knows best.Wonderful 101is colourful and cartoony and looks at home on a Nintendo console, but is still full of all the intense action that really skilled players love.GameplayWhen aliens called "Geathjerk" invade a futuristic earth, one saviour is not enough. Instead, the player controls up to 100 colourful heroes, using the GamePad stylus or analog stick to draw them into formations like a fist or a sword. These "Unite Morphs" are useful both in the arena battles and in occasional puzzles in the platform sections.Highs and lowsThe game loses its flow only when those puzzles take place indoors. While that's an interesting break, it turns the GamePad into a frustrating camera. The campaign has enough variety to encourage playing through its 12-14 hours, with heroes to collect and flying robots to pilot.The verdictWhat could easily have been a gimmick-game is, instead, an attentively made, rich experience which will please fans of Platinum's previous work and the Nintendo crowd alike. It also offers plenty of incentive to play it through more than once. A shame, then, that too few people own a Wii U for it to receive the attention it deserves.
In a market aboutto present cutting-edge new consoles that are, as at some pixellated, entertainment industry weigh-in, pushing their bulky hardware credentials in each others faces, it's refreshing that videogaming can still find time for innovation amid the undercard.The 2DS, then, is at the very opposite end of the spectrum to PS4 and Xbox One: cheap, unsophisticated and kid-friendly. A "my first games console" for a new generation, if you will.But these very basic aesthetics should not act as a deterrent to the new hardware. The 2DS boasts all the technological advancements of the 3DS. It includes the online functionality, the inbuilt software and plays both DS and 3DS games.The most striking difference between 2DS and its 3D predecessor is how it looks. The clamshell design that has defined DS over eight years has gone; this is a flat, open-faced device.It's not as sleek as a PlayStation Vita or a 3DS XL, but its colourful, wedge-shaped design has a child-friendly charm. Although not as large as pictures suggest, it still won't fit in most pockets, but it feels robust and likely to survive in the hands of even the clumsiest child. And it is comfortable to hold, with a more intuitive button layout and satisfying shoulder triggers.There are a few technological concessions. There is just one speaker, so headphones are required for stereo sound. But the most significant omission – as the name suggests – is the 3D screen.The glasses-free 3D of the 3DS is a pleasing novelty but ultimately it isn't necessary to play the games. And the likes ofSuper Mario 3D LandandLuigi's Mansion 2are as enjoyable in two dimensions as they are in three.The pay-off from the loss of 3D is the price. 2DS comes in at a more wallet-friendly £110, which is still a little expensive – particularly as parents may want to invest in a case to protect the exposed screens – but it's certainly cheaper than many of its rivals.Ultimately, then, 2DS is not aimed at existing fans or hardcore gamers. This is a machine for a wider audience and it's an important move for Nintendo, its development more than that of just creating another console but a reaction to its predecessor.The 3DS launch in 2011 was a disaster; beset by a high price, poor software line-up and unsuccessful marketing.Nintendo later admitted that too many consumers didn't realise the 3DS was a new console, instead surmising it was yet another DS but with an expensive screen.And then the media attacked. TheSunran reports that 3DS hurt users' eyes and Nintendo had been inundated with complaints.The company denied it, but the damage was done. Parents feared the console was dangerous and Nintendo subsequently reported its first ever financial loss.Although 3DS has recovered to some degree – it has been the best-selling UK games console over the last three months, due to some wonderful software – it is far from matching the mass-market success of the original DS, which appealed to Mum, Granddad and young children.And this is exactly the audience they are looking for when 2DS launches on 12 October. It's an offbeat, budget-priced console for a broad market.And while the big boys slug it out for the big purse, Nintendo may well have the winner come Christmas.Chris Dring
I have a nostalgic memory from my childhood that conjures up that youthful sensation of limitlessness, of the feeling that the day will be so long and full of opportunity that it couldn't  possibly be filled.It was a full hour until my best friend was due to arrive and, I'd spent a restless minute or two fidgeting by the front door in anticipation. To an eight-year-old, an hour seemed like waiting until the end of time.Then, time seemed elongated, as if without all that assumed knowledge and the prejudices of experience, the perception of time was changed. This is a blissful, open-mindedness with which to view the world, learning by doing, getting stuck in. But that openness of mind seems extremely hard to retain into adulthood.There is an easy currency in the curmudgeonly tradition of dismissing anything new, a default superiority given to wry scepticism over youthful enthusiasm and intrigue. In other words, technologists have to work damn hard to get ideas accepted by the mainstream and there's a tediously charted route through uninterest and scepticism, the ridicule and hype of early adopting, the undulation of that scrutiny and eventual, often reluctant, acceptance. And then before you know it, everybody has a mobile phone!This is not to be confused with the vital scrutiny of new technologies and their place in our lives; one such example is the personal privacy implication of theMemotolapel camera, which automatically takes nearly 3,000 pictures throughout the day. And then there are theGuardian's revelationsthat the US National Security Agency has systemised access to swaths of our online activity – nothing less than a devastating crisis of trust for the consumer web and deserving of aseparate analysis. That crisis also illustrates how vital it is that we understand the risks of the technologies we rely on daily, rather than absolving ourselves of responsibility for our online lives to others who allegedly know better.Often under-considered in our attitude to new technologies is that the human side of engaging and improving that technology is half the point. Technologists present us with the tool and we help work out what it can do; the shopfront for mobile apps was built by the technologists, but their success was down to hundreds of thousands of developers and designers who had ingenious ideas about useful or entertaining things to build.Google Glass, another of a swath of wearable technologies slowly drifting into the public consciousness, is an exciting, challenging case in point.There is no app store for the life-augmenting tech of Google Glass yet, but its success depends on it. So what can our open-minded imaginations – to recall that sensation of limitlessness and exploration – conjure up? A speaker by our ear, a camera for stills and video, voice commands and a small, basic screen in our peripheral vision. Forget that you'll feel silly wearing them (because you felt silly and unsure when you first used your pager/mobile/Skype) and think of the opportunity. It could be great for sport, with live radio coverage playing into your ear and statistics displayed. Or maybe for travel, where the headset will translate everything you see and hear instantly. Boom! Another industry disrupted. All in a day's work for Google.Rethinking the mini-computer that is our smartphone makes sense. Our mobile lozenge is a legacy format that started with the candlestick telephone, a format determined by the size of the technology and the dimensions of the human body. We deserve better! We are comfortable with a watch format because we know it andSamsung's Galaxy Gearor theApple iWatchcombine that format with the success of wearable fitness devices, likeFitBit. But add new sensors, as well as imaginative software, into these mini-computers and the impact could be significant. Non-invasive blood testing will soon be a reality, transformative for diabetics who will no longer have to puncture themselves several times a day, as well as those who have to monitor cholesterol.To scratch the surface of what's possible: health apps will be able to monitor those blood test results, and sync with the restaurant as the wearer walks in, to suggest the most suitable low-GI or low-cholesterol meal. The behavioural implications could be profound, but we need to be interested in understanding and exploring the potential so that we are ready for the debate about who has access to this data, and whether it could ever be shared with a health insurance provider.Picasso reportedly said computers were useless because they could give only answers. It's a beautiful idea that without human inspiration, without knowing the questions we need to solve, we can't create anything really powerful. But he also told his lover and fellow artist Françoise Gilot he saw painting "as a form of magic, designed as mediator between this strange hostile world and us". Perhaps that's the best way to see technology, and with the limitless possibilities of an open mind.Jemima Kiss is head of technology for the GuardianBreaking the mouldFree with every purchase ofSugruis the wonder of what you ever did without it. It looks like play-dough, but dries as a flexible, silicon rubber. The real delight is the playful, hack-it-better mentality of users, who have created glow-in-the-dark tent pegs, a kettle for the visually impaired and camera housing on a helium balloon that took photographs of the Earth from 100,000ft. Its appeal is the ethos of modifying and personalising mass produced products, and in repairing rather than throwing them away.The magic of old techTechnology of an even older kind at the Proms recently, where I was mesmerised by Janine Jansen of the Orchestre de Paris leading Benjamin Britten's Violin Concerto. Whatever the technological secrets behind thatStradivarius sound– wood infused with potassium borate, or an unidentified music – it was the elemental technology of a 286-year-old violin and the manipulation of horsehair, gut and precious metal that created all that magic. With more than a touch of artistic genius, too.
All great works feel as though they were written just for the viewer, and games are no exception.Gone Home, the Fullbright Company's new game for PC, Mac and Linux, makes me feel an aching nostalgia for my suburban childhood. With its point-and-click PC style and dated musical choices, it appeals so directly to my experience of the mid-90s that it's like re-reading old diaries.Canny decisions have been made within the 1995 Oregon setting of this novel, yet retro, story-game, in which you play a young woman returning from travelling in Europe to find your family missing.Gone Homequietly explores whether games can be used to tell stories in a way that differs from film and television, but does not rely on a point-scoring or win-centred approach. Film critic Roger Ebert challenged the notion of games as an art form because, like chess or mahjong, if the aim is to win, the experience has a different quality. The mystery at the heart ofGone Homecould sit happily in a short story or thriller. There's no competitive element. The player's experience is one of reaching an emotional understanding of a family, as you might through a novel or a soap opera.You never meet another character. You piece together a sense of who everyone is and what happened through seemingly disconnected items and evidence hidden around the house. And those connections are intentionally weak. It allows the plot and conclusions to take place in the mind of the player and not in the action of the game.The conclusions I jumped to while playing were revealed for what they were as the story unfolded: assumptions based on previous games, inferior narratives and low expectations. By withholding its story so fully and wisely,Gone Homeinsists we join the dots ourselves. It takes the gaming element away from the screen, and into your head.As a playwright, I have long been disappointed by the weakness of words. An audience is rarely moved by words themselves, but by the gaps between words. In theatre sometimes we reference irritation with actors who act "off the line", meaning they put in breaths and little sounds around what's written, slowing pace and drawing attention. But that's because they know the writing is just a scaffold. Equally, an audience appreciates you leaving room for them, for their little sounds, their breath, their life.For that reason I think games have an unrealised potential to be even more emotionally involving than other forms, because they can make room for the player/audience directly. And because they are alive to flexibility of choice and narrative. I believe the more you nail down a plot point or a line, the more it dies. When you catch words like butterflies and pin them behind glass, it feels like an achievement, but something seals as you press down the pane.And so, now more than ever, we need games likeGone Homethat withhold and reinvent and leave space for thought and feeling. Other forms are hurtling away from that and so from the heart of the audience. The big money-spinners in film since the turn of the century have celebrated overload, bombast and the superhuman. As a recent article inSlatepoints out, there's a published formula now for movies coming out of Hollywood calledSave the Cat!Blake Snyder's screenwriting book tells you on which page of a script exactly each plot point should occur, and the plot points are always the same. This explains why the last few years have felt so eerily rhythmically familiar in cinema. Big box-office hits have begun to feel crammed with event, twist and information and yet feel illogical and unsurprising. As if everything is happening as it must, but you couldn't actually say why or how it happened as it did.Game's a young medium and so clumsy and jejune. But that is also an opportunity to escape well-worn paths and be playful. The mainstream still suffers from a lack of imagination, sure, butThe Last of Ushad an ending the boldness of which took my breath away, and even the trashy, crashySaints Row IVbegins with some leaps you wouldn't be able to predict.Gone Homeoffers clarity, space and original writing. It's small but felt. There is no onscreen conflict or denouement involving the two biggest things you have encountered so far having a fight. There is no opening declaration of motivation by the protagonist in voiceover to save you any trouble, or a second act explanation of what's happened so far by the villain to justify his over-complicated plot (and the writer's).In a world where we are gorging on data and information, I am beginning to want to know less and feel more. Maybe games could be the place to now fill  that gap.
There's no knowing where as a child you'll learn the lessons that you retain into later life. When much younger, I devoured the science fiction stories ofLarry Niven, who described worlds with flash mobs, instantaneous matter transfer, faster-than-light hyperdrives and aliens with which we could share a language and atmosphere.Still, he was right about flash mobs. But one of his short stories –The Soft Weapon– taught me a valuable lesson about user interface design. It concerns two rival spacefaring crews who discover an ancient alien artefact that can be turned into all sorts of things: a gun, a laser, a matter disintegrator, a universal translator. One of the groups, a pirate crew which has taken the other (nice) ones hostage, decides it's obviously an ancient soldier's weapon, for use on the battlefield. But one of the other group realises that no soldier would want such a device. "You'd get stomped while you were trying to figure out which setting to use," he concludes. (The story's conclusion rests on who would want such a device. I won't spoil it.)Niven's insight – that overcomplicating a device is a bad thing – is one lost on some companies and lots of geeks who think that we're all fighting the "specification wars", where any bigger number trumps a smaller one (unless you're timing something). Add in another app! And another menu too! Is that a kitchen sink?Nokia's downfall came about because itsSymbian smartphone softwarewas awash with redundancy and complexity. There were screens that offered three ways to do the same thing. The iPhone supplanted it because it made things simpler – not because it suddenly made it possible to do more (it didn't).The arrival of Android, which allows manufacturers to "skin" the base operating system, has had some dire effects. While pure Android (found on the Nexus range) suffers only from a Microsoft-like tendency to descend into jargon in the settings, Samsung has decided that you can't have too much of a good, or indeed bad, thing. Thus its phones offer features like air gesture, air command, smart stay, smart scroll – and that's just for reading. (They drove me mad in testing. I turned them off.) For the camera, you get choices including drama, eraser, dual shot, sound and shot, animated photo and story album. And while you're choosing between them, the moment you wanted to photograph is gone – just like the soldier inThe Soft Weapon.I'm wary of the tendency to stuff more and more consumer devices with features to make them "better". Japanese hi-fi companies suffered from this syndrome in the 70s and 80s and ceded the premium ground to companies like Bang &amp; Olufsen which succeeded through minimalism. The Japanese led to a race to the bottom, with no improvement in usefulness.The kitchen-sink approach appeals to our desire to have more stuffbut complexity carries a cost, in attention if nothing else. We might not fly faster than light, or zap matter – but even if we do, we'll still need simplicity.
Q. I have a large collection of music and video on my hard drive but don't back up. Backing up to the cloud would be expensive (and who knows how long those services may last) and backing up to an external hard drive that would most likely get stolen along with my laptop seems pretty pointless. What other solutions are there?Ian, Islington, LondonA. No strategy is completely foolproof – and I understand your concerns about back-ups and cloud solutions. The best way to think of each back-up you use is as an extra failsafe. However, some of the best include: Transporter, Backblaze and Crashplan.Transporter is a network drivethat backs up your data and has no monthly fees once you've purchased the device. It replicates the data across transporters you've authorised, so you can keep one in the office and at home, or at a friend/family member's house, and have offsite data replication.Backblaze is a cloud back-up solutionfrom Rackspace – an industry standard for high performance and reliable servers – and it replicates all of your data across multiple data centres with high security and reliability.It allows you to back up multiple computers and even your external drives. You also get unlimited storage and it's less than you might expect – $5/£3 a month or $50/£30 a year, and in the unfortunate situation that you need to restore your data, you can either download it or get them to send you a hard drive with all your data on it.Crashplan is a cross between Backblaze and Transporter, it automatically backs up to multiple data centres, as well as being able to back up to other drives and friends'/families'/spare computers around the world and intelligently pausing uploads if you are running high intensity programs that leave few resources and when on low battery.Q. Can you give me an effective and secure password strategy?Jane, WolverhamptonA. Passwords are an important part of our digital lives, and as such, there are many solutions to securing your online identity.Not all of them will work for you, especially when you need to find solutions that work across the number of platforms we find ourselves exposed to on a daily basis, either mobile, tablet or desktops.Fortunately there are solutions that work across most platforms, the most popular of which is1Password by AgileBits.It has clients for Mac, Windows, iOS and Android, and syncs through DropBox or over a local WiFi network, meaning that the data is not tied into any one storage service, and you can back up the passwords file.Alternatively there isLastPass, a cloud-based option, however, you cannot manually back up this data, and will require an internet connection to access it.Q. As a parent I worry about how I can ensure that my 10-year-old is protected online. Which social media site should she be using? What safeguards and filters can I employ? How can I be sure she's not being bullied or engaging with predators?Michael, OswestryA. Child safety on the internet is a big issue, as we must protect them from things such as pornography and trolling, without restricting access to genuinely useful information. The old method of simply keeping an eye on the child while they are using a computer is much harder now we have constant access via laptops, tablets and other devices. To cover this, you need to use something likeOpenDNS, which allows flexible controlssuch as custom block pages and can even protect their mobiles.As for social media, it is against the terms of service for those under 13 to use them. However, if you do still choose to allow your children access, you should set up all the privacy settings, and set firm rules about who they add as friends, and add yourself as a friend to see what is being posted. You could also set up a monthly review, whereby you sit with them and talk about things like cyber-bullying, or what has happened that month. If anything has, you can report it to either your child's school, or if you expect grooming or similar – report it to  the police.Q. How can I strip useless pre-loaded apps from my HTC phone?Nicola, south LondonA. The non-standard, carrier- or provider-installed apps on your phone (bloatware) waste space on your device, and often run on startup, wasting system resources and battery life. Fortunately you can deal with this quite easily. If you just wish to disable the app (hiding it from your AppDrawer and preventing it from ever launching) and are running Android 4.0 or newer (most devices released in the last year come with it as standard), you can simply launch settings, swipe over into "Apps", tap the app you want to disable, then tap "disable" on the next screen. Doing this leaves the files on your device, wasting storage space, but they can be difficult to remove fully without some technical know-how or a tutorial, as it requires you to either "root" your device, or install a custom version of Android. Rooting is easier but the process is different on most devices – a wide collection of guides can be found onAndroidRootingandMoDaCo's forum. When you have rooted you can install "titanium backup" and forcibly remove the software.Q. How do I prolong the life of my smartphone battery?Miranda, SouthamptonA. Gone are the days when you needed to charge your phone once a week, with smartphone batteries often lasting less than a day, although you can double battery life by following a few simple steps:Disable WiFi when not connected to a network as it constantly looks for networks to connect to, using lots of energy.Turn on auto-brightness to prevent the backlight from using more energy than necessary.If you're on Android, then applications that you may have closed using your home button may still be running in the background using system resources and energy – you can force quit them using "ATK" or another task manager from the play store.Q.  How can I guard against hacking emails?Rhys, SwanseaA. You can guard against "hacking" emails with a variety of means, firstly by introducing spam filters on either your email client or web app (like google mail), to block key phrases and blacklist domains that have previously sent spam. You can also be careful to only download/open attachments and click links from people you know, and make sure that the email appears to be written by them, as they may have malware that sends malicious emails appearing to originate from them. If on Windows you should also do regular scans using your antivirus software and the free version of Malwarebytes.Daniel is a freelance programmer for iOS and web. He is a student and has been coding for various things since the age of eight. He is an ambassador forYoung Rewire State. and can be found on Twitter @DanToml.If you have a tech problem for Daniel emailtech.questions@observer.co.uk
1Mario and Peach(1985-2013)The princess andthe plumberare an unlikely coupling, but through 28 years of kidnapping, their love lives on.Anyone who's played video games for a few years will know the (what might be described as somewhat depressing) cycle of Mario and Princess Peach's love. They find happiness, the Princess is kidnapped, Mario to the rescue, repeat indefinitely. It's an easy narrative technique to mock and as to the depth of Mario and Peach's relationship, well, the trouble there is that they are always being separated ... But the two are video gaming's first couple, and Mario's devotion to his sweetheart is gloriously and unfailingly unconditional even if after all these years he might occasionally wonder about committing to a princess who just can't seem to to stay out of trouble.2Monkey Islandseries(1990-2009)Protagonist Guybrush Threepwood's romance with Elaine Marley is awkward, enchanting and hilarious. As LucasArts' classic tale of misguided piracy evolves, stumbling protagonist Threepwood falls for the spirited governess and, inexplicably, something special blossoms. The relationship they share is a constant victim to the whim of Threepwood's incompetence, but crucially, it has its own peculiar realism, and anybody who knows what it is to love, well, out of one's league, will empathise with the hero buffoon's devotion to the subject of his affections. Only a comedy game could get romance this right.3Passage(2007)In the five minutes thatPassagelasts, its nameless couple share a lifetime together that is beautiful and heartbreaking.Lasting just minutes, Passage is lauded as a masterpiece of minimalist game design. Its stars are a nameless couple, whose lifetime is represented as a stark, pixellated corridor. Without offering the player much in the way of interaction, it evokes a heart wrenching sense of how the passage of time casts a looming shadow over even the most loving relationship. It feels so archetypically hip it's painful at times, but Passage can pull on the heartstrings of even the most jaded.4The Unchartedseries(2007-2012)Thanks to the voice actors behind the pixels, Nathan Drake and Elena Fisher's relationship is completely believable.They might not be as witty as Guybrush Threepwood and his sweetheart but Nathan Drake and Elena Fisher's connection is strikingly credible, thanks in no small part to the remarkable performances from the actors that bring the charcters to life. There is a smugness to the relationship that suggests the Uncharted games might have picked up a few of Hollywood's lazier and less pleasing cliches, but its hard to argue that they do not share a charisma rarely realised so deftly in the video game form.5Heavy Rain(2010)Ethan Mars and his wife are consumed by tragedy, but their pairing is one of gaming's most striking.The domestic relationship at Heavy Rain's opening may not be the dominant focus of the story and it certainly isn't a blissful snapshot of married life. But the sense that Ethan Mars and his wife have shared the peaks and troughs of a life spent in union is a powerful one, and to see the tension that can beset a couple's time together so pronounced in a game is unsettling. Their tragic coexistence does much to set the noir thriller's morose tone.6Red Dead Redemption(2010)At the wild west frontier, John Marston's devotion to his beloved Abigail is murderously absolute.In Rockstar Games' sprawling western, Red Dead Redemption, wrong and right are black and white and love is just as clear cut, hence John Marston's devotion to his beloved Abigail is unqualified. But it is not what the lead will do for her that is Red Dead Redemption's great romantic achievement. Rather, it is the small details in the couple's on-screen time that gives every sense they have been together for many years, through the thick and thin, the nuances, subtleties and peculiarities that make their bond so convincing are so often missing from so many other in-game relationships.
Some things about Fashion Week will never change. I can confidently predict that, as you read this, on London Fashion Week's busiest day, I will be shivering in the austere bowels of some dank warehouse in EC48 or thereabouts, waiting for a show to start. I will enjoy hearing hundreds of bits of  true or utterly fabricated gossip from my fellow front-rowers. I will enjoy reconnecting with friends I haven't seen since the last round of shows and we will all swear that this time we will definitely find the time to actually see each other before the next round. (We won't). Also, I will probably see a man wearing hotpants, heels and a pineapple hat. But then, there's what has changed. Gone are the days when I sat staring at the floor for an hour while I waited for another late show. I'll still be waiting, but now there's a whole world of fashion activity to occupy me on my iPhone. Here are  some of my favourite  apps – they keep me informed, inspire and amuse me, and let me take my Twitter followers, andGlamour's, along for the ride.ASOS app:iPhone, iPad, freeThe Aladdin's Cave of websites does it again with this comprehensive app – fast, affordable shopping thrills. I particularly love  the Daily Edit feature, which shows a neat selection of highlights from the site (which I often find overwhelming in its scale). So this easily navigated shopping tool is a total nightmare, really, but I do mean that in a good way.Instagram:iPhone, iPad, Android, freeIf you want to be virtually in the room with the world's most stylish celebrities, this is the one. The coolest fashion kids, from Charlotte Olympia to Cara Delevingne cannot get enough. And neither can we.Style.com:iPhone, iPad, Nook, freeEvery editor's cribsheet – from news and show reviews to every catwalk image you need. A first port of call to break down and analyse trends in an instant. Also great for the pure voyeurism and inspiration of checking out the best outfits in the world with their trend and street-style pieces.Pose:iPhone, iPad, Android, freeWant advice on exactly how to wear autumn's favourite shade, pink? Or some new inspiration for your office look? This app lets you follow bloggers and celebs and generally stylish people from all around the world in one place. Hundreds of new styling ideas. I'm a fan and so, apparently, is Rachel Zoe.Tory Daily:iPhone, iPad, freeA gorgeous look at life through the eyes of the American designer Tory Burch. It's a daily dose of style, culture, travel and eye candy, all filtered through the gaze of the queen of New York polish.The Cut:iPad, freeBrilliant for breaking news, but also contains my favourite game, Hit or Miss; catwalk images flash up and you decide whether they're a hit or a miss and then get to instantly compare your opinion to all other users. It is compelling and impossible to stop at just one.Net a Porter:iPhone, iPad, Android, freeI can't decide if this is a good or a bad thing, but it's certainly a seamless, gorgeous enabler for my out of control shopaholism. There is literally nothing on here that I don't absolutely, positively need.Fashion Kaleidoscope:iPhone, iPad, Android, freeSort of like fashion Shazam. Spotted something on a stranger that you like the look of? If you're too shy to tap them on the shoulder and ask where it's from (although every woman I knowlovesbeing asked!), this app lets you track the item surreptitiously.Shopstyle:iPhone, iPad, freeFor the shopping-obsessed like me, who aren't looking for "a top" but rather "a stripy top whose stripes are not too fat, with three-quarter sleeves, and an embellished collar please". Shopstyle searches a massive database of online stores, high street and designer. Fashion Google, really.Chic Feed:iPhone, Android, freeLike everyone else, I can't get enough of street style. I find it so inspiring to see how others dress the staples I already own. And this app is a great compilation of the most popular street-style snaps from all the best sites like The Sartorialist and Face Hunter.
How has technology changed the newsroom?We now have in our pockets – in the shape of mobile phones – stuff that is capable of producing quality radio and, at a pinch, TV – the quality that viewers will accept has gone down. When I was in Morocco, the cameraman got detained for having a small video camera, whereas I was filming on my iPhone without anyone noticing.How is data changing journalism?Data has become the battleground of 21st century journalism. The three bigcauses célèbresof journalism areWikileaks,Chelsea ManningandEdward Snowden. Making access to the information and the right to publish is now an act of radicalism.Do you boycott any of the tax minimising tech brands?No, I don't do any boycotting. All my life I've tended to use the default option. When Apple became really crap I switched to PC, because everybody did. I switched to Kindle to research my stories and books and now I buy  e-books – for me, they are just an extension of Wikipedia.Do you keep your phone on the table at dinner?I don't when at dinner with my family, but I do in all other circumstances, such as working lunches and meetings.What's your favourite app?Snapseed– a photo-enhancing app. It makes everything look like it's been shot on an SLR.  I also loveWhatsApp– I use it for a small circle of journalistic contacts. It's popular among the journalists I know.Does technology isolate or connect?It's a no brainer – it's massively connecting people. Certainly social media is allowing us to live a more social life at the same time as having an expanded footprint. People who use social media are more interesting – they have more things to talk about.Sat nav or map book?I recently navigated my way across Morocco with a driver who didn't know where he was going and we relied on Google maps – it was accurate enough.Do you talk on the phone at a check out?Always, it's obligatory! Either that or I listen to music.How many times a week do you Google yourself?I share a name with the fattest man in the world, so I wouldn't advise anybody to Google me unless they add the words BBC or Channel 4.Would you publish your genome?I wish I knew it. It's part Lithuanian Jewish, part Lancashire coal miner. I'd love to know what the code for that looks like.Time travel – when to?I'd go either to a future communist utopia or to theParis Commune of 1871. As long as there was an escape button.What's the first thing you'd make on a 3D printer?The film studio that makesThe Hobbitmade a 3D printer 10 times as big with a 3D printer. I'd make another 3D printer 100 times as big and print buildings with it, houses that could replace slums.Paul Mason is C4's new culture and digital editor.Interview by Tess Reidy
Studying a miniature reproduction of yourself is disconcerting. Whereas a sculpture or a drawing is a subjective creation of the artist this 3D printed plastic reproduction is unforgiving with its accuracy: if your nose looks weird, well that's because it does. This mini-me has been created by the team atiMakr, a3D printing workshop based in Clerkenwellin London, who, in a sign of the technology's entry into the mainstream, are opening a 3D pop-up shop and studio in the Oxford Street branch of Selfridges next month. Shoppers will be able to purchase 3D printed items created by product designers, use 3D software to print designs of their choice and purchase 3D printers for their homes, but the main draw is likely to be the opportunity to have a bust or full length 3D model printed of yourself.IMakr's founder Sylvain Preumont suspects that "people who are proud of themselves may order many copies". Although he also expects proud parents to get their child's head printed to send to an aunty overseas.You might expect the process to begin in some of kind laser-scanning booth, but lasers have a limited ability to distinguish colour, so instead the 3D image is captured with 40 digital cameras placed around the subject – since the model is printed in full colour rather than painted afterwards. The bust is hollow rather than solid and printed with a "high performance composite" material which feels more like ceramic to touch than plastic.The imaging process relies on detecting light, so shiny or transparent clothing or accessories such as glasses can confuse the software. Similarly anything non-solid (big, flowing tresses of hair) or clothing that conceals spaces hidden from the camera – skirts or high heels – can result in strange forms and growths. Consequently women are more difficult to capture than men.Whether mini-models will turn out to be the "killer app" for 3D printing is a moot point. The price of printers is falling, iMakr's cheapest model is £669, but as Preumont points out the real barrier to their uptake is our imagination: "We are good at buying but owning things isn't the same as designing."For those not confident or skilled enough to create their own designs from scratch iMakr offers a number of pre-designed files that you can download to one of its 3D printers (or your own) via itsMy Mini Factoryservice. The expanding database of designs includes various lampshades and toys, an Iron Man facemask and a model of the Da Vinci catapult.Materials scientist and engineerMark Miodownik arguesthat 3D printing may not turn us all into makers but will allow manufacturers to create bespoke products."Modernism sold us a dream in order to make mass-production acceptable. It was basically saying 'you don't have to feel insignificant because everybody has the same thing'. Now you can have mass-produced manufacturing without having to produce the same object. You can have individualisation, you can have niche." And you can't get more individual than a resin clone of yourself.imakr.com
In a darkened robotics laboratory in Lyon, Peter Dominey and Stéphane Lallée are playing a game with a cute-looking humanoid called iCub. The game isToyboxand the object is to uncover a toy trumpet that Lallée has just moved from a box to iCub's right. For a human three-year-old such a game is child's play, but until now it has been beyond the scope of most machined intelligences. Not for iCub however."I will put box on the right," says iCub, making sure it has understood Lallée's instructions. "You will put the toy on the left. I will put the box on the middle."Staring intently at the box, iCub reaches out with its left hand, grasps the box and moves it to the centre of the table, uncovering the trumpet in the process. Next, instead of telling iCub to pick up the trumpet, Lallée gestures with his finger, indicating different positions on the table where he has moved it. Much like a real child interacting with its parent, iCub's eyes swivel from side to side, its luminous pink eyebrows and mouth glowing with excitement. "You have moved the trumpet. Found it. You have moved the trumpet. Found it.""Game over," says Lallée abruptly. iCub tilts its head towards Lallée, fixing him with its large black eyes. If you did not know better you would think iCub was disappointed. "Check on my internal state. That was pretty fun. We keep playing this game."Part of theChris project– short for Co-operative Human Robot Interactive Systems – iCub is at the vanguard of a new generation of social robots that is fast changing perceptions of what human-robot interactions will look like in the future. For iCub isn't just any old robot. Measuring 93cm, it is a fully fledged humanoid "child" robot equipped with sophisticated motor skills and sense abilities, including vision, sound, touch, balance and proprioception – the ability to sense the position of its arms and body in space. These facilities enable iCub to crawl on all fours, grasp and manipulate balls and other objects and turn its head so as to follow gestures or direct its gaze.Unlike conventional robots familiar from assembly lines, iCub isn't programmed to perform a specific set of actions or tasks. Instead it acquires skills naturally by using its body to explore the world and gather data about its relation to objects and people in that world, much as a two-year-old learns by interacting with his or her environment. Through its ability to direct its gaze, grasp and manipulate objects, and "read" gestures as it co-operates with human tutors on shared tasks like theToyboxgame, iCub can learn words and skills and develop co-operative strategies. There are even indications that, given time and practice, iCub may be able to develop more sophisticated cognitive skills, such as the ability to imagine the mental states of others [as explained in the box on the Sally Anne task , below]."We've got used to seeing robots in the factory but in the 21st century robots will increasingly be living among us," says Dominey, whose work in Lyon is jointly funded by Inserm, the French national medical research agency, and CNRS, France's national scientific research foundation. "These robots must be able to take our perspective and co-operate with us and, if our plans change, they must be able to adjust their behaviour accordingly. Most important of all, they must be safe."These days you can hardly open a newspaper or switch on the TV without being confronted with the latest robotic advance. From self-steering vacuum-cleaning robots such as Roomba (£379.95 from John Lewis) to cyborg-style robot suits (such asHAL) and the cruise control in your BMW, suddenly robots are everywhere, invading our offices and homes and, it seems, making increasing demands on our emotional lives.TakeParo, a plush toy version of a baby harp seal. Paro does little more than coo and wag its head and tail, yet more than 1,000 have been sold since its creation in 2003, making it one of the most popular therapeutic robots. And where Paro leads, other "socibots" are sure to follow. For £55,000, Engineered Arts, a company based in Cornwall, will supply you withRobothespian, a life-sized interactive humanoid that comes with an interactive touch-screen that can play greetings, sing songs and converse in several languages.Simon the Robot poses for a photo shoot at Georgia Tech University in Atlanta, Georgia. Photograph: Daniel Borris/New York Times/Redux/eyevineThen there'sSimon, an upper-torso humanoid robot with a "socially expressive" head. Developed by the Georgia Institute of Technology, Simon can grasp and release objects, clean up a workspace and swivel its eyes so as to interact with humans in ways that feel emotionally and socially authentic. In tests, using only his cameras as a guide, Simon could tell with close to 80% accuracy whether someone was paying attention or ignoring him.Now, in a development straight out of a Ridley Scott film, the Japanese have sent the first talking humanoid robot into outerspace. A joint project between Tokyo University and the carmaker Toyota,Kirobo– from the Japanese words for "hope" and "robot" – is designed to provide companionship for astronaut Koichi Wakata when he journeys to the International Space Station this year.These developments make some people uneasy. Ever since Isaac Asimov publishedI, Robotin 1950, writers and philosophers have been warning us about the dangers of becoming over-reliant on robots. At the same time, as populations age and it becomes increasingly expensive to provide 24/7 care to the elderly, scientists and commercial companies are convinced that large rewards await the first team that succeeds in engineering a fully autonomous humanoid."Assisted living is going to be a big industry, and whoever cracks the technology first will be able to export it to everyone else," says Chris Melhuish, director of theBristol Robotics Laboratory (BRL), the largest academic centre for multidisciplinary robotics research in the UK. "If we don't invest in social robotics there's a risk we will be left behind."Housed in a vast, hangar-like building on the edge of Bristol, the BRL, a joint venture between Bristol University and the University of the West of England, is one of more than 20 labs participating in the European Chris consortium. Inside, researchers from around the world tinker with circuit boards and wires alongside robotic arms and ghostly looking androids draped in plastic sheets. There are robots that can manipulate packages and read food labels; plastic heads that gurn and gurgle when you sit in front of them; and tiny "swarm" robots that can combine spontaneously to solve tasks. BRL even has a robot called Bert 2 that can help someone assemble a four-legged table simply by interpreting gestures and responding to verbal commands. It has yet to master an Ikea flat pack, however. "At the moment it's pretty weak what we can do, but these are the first steps in the right direction," says Melhuish. "Human-robot co-operation is not an impossible dream."To understand how iCub may be bringing that dream a step closer, it is necessary to know something of the history of social robotics and how iCub represents a significant methodological and technological advance. In the past it was thought that the solution to more lifelike robots lay in ever more complex algorithms and codes. The problem is that it is not easy to write a computer code to enable a robot to distinguish a cup from a saucer, or walk around an obstruction, or any of the other myriad daily tasks humans take for granted. But what if, through sophisticated motors and gears, robots could be given the equivalent of muscles? And what if they could also be given touch-sensitive fingers and other sensory equipment that would allow them to explore the world and process information via their bodies?This was the "embodied intelligence" approach pioneered at Massachusetts Institute of Technology's computational science and artificial intelligence laboratory in the 1990s by Rodney Brooks, a roboticist and entrepreneur who went on to found the companyRethink Robotics. Brooks's first effort was a stationary robot named Cog with arms that spanned 6.5ft when extended. Brooks gave Cog motors and oscillators so that it could grasp and weigh objects, and microphones for ears. It also had basic speech recognition software and an artificial voicebox. Equipped with only these basic facilities, Cog learnt to manipulate a cube and a Slinky toy through repetitive interactions with students. Cog could also find and name objects it had never seen before. But perhaps the most interesting development was how people responded to it: although Cog had no face, and a lens where his eyeballs should have been, students treated it as if it were human.Yet Cog was completely lacking in social skills. That began to change with the next robot to emerge from Brooks's lab: Kismet. Designed by Brooks's graduate student Cynthia Breazeal, now director of the personal robots group at MIT, Kismet was primed with the same basic motivations as a six-month-old child, with built-in drives for stimulation, social interaction and periodic rest. Breazeal also endowed Kismet with abilities such as being able to look for a brightly coloured ball or recognise a person's face, plus a repertoire of facial expressions that changed according to whether Kismet's drives for arousal or rest were being met, and that simulated human moods such as happiness and boredom.Kismet was a revelation. Even though it consisted of only a hinged metal head with cartoonish "stuck-on" red lips and eyebrows for expressing emotions, its repertoire was so socially appropriate that people were drawn to play with it, and got the sense that Kismet was reciprocating their emotions.As Breazeal's work on Kismet was coming to an end, a young Italian roboticist, Giorgio Metta, arrived at Brooks's lab to work on his PhD. Metta's focus was not so much on software as mechanics – improving Cog's ability to manipulate objects and interact with humans on simple shared tasks. By 2004 he had finished his PhD and gained enough experience to propose a more ambitious project: building a humanoid robot with a much greater range of motion, using open-source design, allowing other roboticists to bolt on their own engineering and software applications. The proposal caught the eye of the European Union's cognition unit, which agreed to fund the project to the tune of €8.5m – and iCub was born.iCub has sophisticated motor skills, including the ability to grasp and manipulate object. It acquires skills naturally by using its body to explore the world and gather data, much as a two-year-old learns by interacting with his or her environment. Photograph: Massimo Brega/The Lighthouse/Vis/Visuals Unlimited/CorbisSince then, 25 iCubs have been rolled out to collaborating centres across Europe, the US and Japan via theRobotCubplatform. Some, such as Dominey's facility in Lyon, are focusing on iCub's ability to interact with humans on shared tasks through language and action; others are more interested in teaching iCub to manipulate objects and acquire new motor skills.What unites these approaches is the insight that human intelligence develops through interactions with objects in the environment and is shaped profoundly by interactions with other human beings. By 18 months, for instance, a toddler can already understand the gesture to pick up a pen. Young children also seem to be primed to explore their environment and interact and co-operate with their carers long before they acquire language. These social and exploratory drives are built into iCub's operating system. Then, it's simply a matter of interacting with iCub and letting its body guide it."In the past if you wanted to teach a robot to recognise an object it was very difficult to write a program to that effect," says Metta, who is based at the Italian Institute of Technology in Genoa. "It was a matter of trial and error. Now, with iCub, you can be the teacher and say, 'OK, let's play with this object or do this task together' in a more or less natural way."For instance, simply through repetitive play, Metta's team have taught iCub to distinguish a stuffed toy octopus from a purple car, despite iCub never having seen the objects before. By grasping iCub's arm and rotating it in a certain way, they can also teach iCub new gestures. These are then recorded in its autobiographical memory, meaning that next time it can make the gesture without being prompted. Similarly, through interacting with its human tutor, iCub can be taught new words and concepts – such as that "left" corresponds to the position east on the table inToybox.At the same time, by confronting us with questions about what it means to be human, iCub, and robotic systems like it, are fast becoming testbeds for theories about the development of similar cognitive functions in humans."Until now, robots have been little more than fancy machines," says Dominey. "What makes iCub so exciting is that it allows us to test our theories about the evolution of social cognition and then feed this knowledge back into the design of ever more intelligent machines."Dominey's next goal as part of theExperimental Functional Android Assistantproject is to build on theToyboxand Sally Anne studies to see if iCub can be taught to read more complex mental states and develop higher cognitive functions. "The really new thing would be if we could give iCub a sense of self so it could reflect on itself as an agent acting on the world. Then we would have the beginning of some true notion of intention and agency." Metta, meanwhile, has developed a touch-sensitive skin to enhance iCub's ability to gauge when it is getting too close to an object and is in danger of hitting it – a prerequisite for persuading people that it is safe to interact with robots at close quarters.With safety in mind, Melhuish and his team are also experimenting with softer, more lightweight materials, in the hope of building a robot with lower body mass.But what if robots really did become capable of reading our intentions and interacting with us safely? They are being touted as the solution to social isolation and the rising costs of health care, but would we really be prepared to invite them into our homes to look after our parents?To get an idea of how living with a robot might work in practice, before leaving BRL I asked one of Melhuish's assistants to show me round an assisted living space patrolled by a robot nicknamed Molly. Compared to iCub, Molly – which looks like an upright vacuum cleaner with a bowling ball for a head and comes equipped with a touchscreen display and webcam – is a bit disappointing.Molly, which is part of the Kompai range manufactured by the French company Robosoft, does not walk or crawl. Instead it trundles about on training wheels. However, it is capable of a surprising range of tasks, including monitoring your vital signs and navigating to whatever position in the room you happen to be. It's display also comes with a range of interactive games and tools for testing memory and recall. All this data can be recorded and stored for later study by healthcare professionals. Molly can also transmit images and sound in real time, allowing family members to check on their loved ones remotely.I had only 10 minutes with Molly but was surprised at how quickly I got used to her jerky movements and electronic voicebox. And although she could hardly be mistaken for a real person, I soon found myself talking to her as if she were.According to Dan Davies, whose job it is to take Molly into nursing homes in the Bristol area as part of a Europe-wide study into the viability of assisted living with robots, my reaction is fairly typical. "Everywhere we have taken Molly the response has been great," he says. "Even nursing staff have been reassured, saying it would be very useful to have a record of how active someone has been when they are not around to monitor them."Of course, this is a long way from the scenario painted in films such asRobot and Frank, in which a robot is sent to care for an ageing jewel thief (Frank Langella) only to become his companion and partner in crime. And it is even further from the robotic futures imagined by Dominey and Metta. But isn't that a good thing? After all, wouldn't it be a little dehumanising, a little sad even, if robots were to become a substitute for family and friends?Not necessarily, says Dominey. "If the alternative is to be in a depersonalised institution, it's probably better for people to stay autonomously in their home with a robot. We already interact with televisions, iPads and iPhones – all sorts of machines – and we don't consider them dehumanising. Robots are no different."
What's the story?TheTalesseries is one of Japan's most engaging role-playing franchises, noted for speedier combat than its genre-bound brethren and beautifully animated cutscenes courtesy of partnerships with top anime studios.Xilliacelebrates the line's 15th anniversary with an epic adventure pairing medical student Jude Mathis and mystic summoner Milla Maxwell as they battle to save two worlds from mutual destruction.GameplayUnfolding over a solid 60-plus hours, Milla and Jude's quest sees them joined by diverse allies with robust abilities but derivative anime-style personality quirks. Combat remains the high point of anyTalesgame – battles pair fighters, enabling powerful dual attacks or support actions, while selecting which two characters to link in order to gain particular abilities adds a touch of strategy.Highs and lowsFor those who dig the anime aesthetic,Xilliais one of the best-looking games on the shelves, with fantastic character designs and imaginative locales to explore. The musical score, by noted composer Motoi Sakuraba, is a delicately arranged auditory experience, though the game is let down on the sound front by some occasionally painful voice acting.The verdictWhile peers such asFinal Fantasystruggle with constant iterative reinvention,Taleshas focused on perfecting its formula.Xilliais familiar but fresh for players who enjoy the format, while remaining accessible and engaging for newcomers. Despite occasional head-shaking moments of teen melodrama or narrative excess – designed to reinforce how worlds-shaking the stakes it has created are – it's an enjoyable and compelling affair.
'It's an ill bird," runs the adage, "that fouls its own nest." Cue the US National Security Agency (NSA), which, we now know, has been busily doing this for quite a while. As theEdward Snowdenrevelations tumbled out, the scale of the fouling slowly began to dawn on us.Outside of the United States, for example, people suddenly began to have doubts about the wisdom of entrusting their confidential data to cloud services operated by American companies on American soil. As Neelie Kroes, European Commission vice president responsible for digital affairs, put itin a speech on 4 July: "If businesses or governments think they might be spied on, they will have less reason to trust the cloud and it will be cloud providers who ultimately miss out. Why would you pay someone else to hold your commercial or other secrets, if you suspect or know they are being shared against your wishes? Front or back door – it doesn't matter – any smart person doesn't want the information shared at all. Customers will act rationally and providers will miss out on a great opportunity."Which providers? Why, the big US internet companies that have hitherto dominated the market for cloud services – a market setto double in size to $200bn(£126bn) over the next three years. So the first own goal scored by the NSA was to undermine an industry that many people had regarded asthe next big thing in corporate computing.The second own goal (or unintended consequence, to give it its technical name)came from the revelationthat the NSA had cracked or circumventedthe encryption systems used by internet companies, banksand other organisations to persuade consumers that online transactions could be confidential and secure. Given that one of the great triumphs of the industry had been to persuade initially sceptical users that it was safe to conduct transactions online, this was a staggering revelation, the implications of which will be very far-reaching. And it brought to mind a conversation I had last year with a fairly senior executive of a major internet company, who casually mentioned that his organisation's head of security "wouldn't dream of using online banking". I thought it was amusing at the time and filed it away as a curiosity: geeks, after all, are notoriously paranoid about these things. Now I wish I had been more perceptive.But, in a way, even more disturbing was the realisation that the NSA seems to have covertly suborned the process by which encryption standards are set by the supposedly independent USNational Institute of Standards and Technology(NIST). In 2006, NIST published the standard (ie technical protocol) for encryption on the web that was subsequently adopted by the International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO), which has 163 countries as members. What nobody knew until Edward Snowden revealed it was that the 2006 standard was effectively written by the NSA and that it had inserteda secret back door into the encryption systemfor its own use. "The road to developing this standard was smooth once the journey began," a NSA memo noted. "However, beginning the journey was a challenge in finesse."I'll bet it was. Technical standards are to networking as oxygen is to life. And, broadly speaking, the way they are shaped has always been co-operative and open. In the internet world, for example, it's done by groups of engineers with specialist expertise in a particular area who gather to hammer out, by a process of open discussion, successive versions of a protocol until they converge on something that is agreed to be workable. "We believe,"one of the pioneers of the processwrote, "in rough consensus and running code." But at the heart of the process is the assumption that everyone participating – whether from companies or academia – is working in the public interest rather than trying to advance the narrower interests of their organisation.That's why the discovery that the NSA abused that kind of trust is so depressing. And, in a way, it represents the biggest own goal of all, because it fatally undermines one of the fundamental tenets of US foreign policy, namely that governance of the internet is best left in American hands. As the net became increasingly global, this was already looking like a threadbare proposition. The NSA has ensured that it is now untenable.Which brings us back to birds and their nests. I forgot to mention that of course the official seal of the US president is… an eagle.
Often an escape from reality, some games offer the impossible and intriguingly some make even the mundane entertaining. Calling a plumber (not Mario) is the usual response to a gushing pipe but inFix the Leaks(Emotion Rays, iOS, free) on the safety of the iPhone screen, the problem becomes an attractive physics-based puzzler. MirroringCut the Rope, a little monster is required to feed on the dripping ooze – with a series of ropes, balloons and other items utilised to manoeuvre around the level. The price tag is certainly appealing, but in fact only 26 levels are accessible; after that, it's 69p to access the full game – well worth it.868-Hack(Michael Brough, iOS, £3.99) is initially as confusing as Ubuntu to a techno-illiterate, but it soon reveals its charms. With excellent retro visuals, players control a hacking programme, trying to access a computer system and grab as much data as possible before the defence programmes notice and kill you. Initial run-throughs will be brief, while attempting to balance the desire for larger data packets with the risk of more robust defences, but once at ease with the dynamic, attacks can be carefully plotted and high scores racked up, allowing hacking through the puzzles with ease – think NSA and email accounts.
The Etrian Odysseyseries has escaped attention from all but the most ardent Japanese RPG fans. A shame, since Atlus's quirky effort abandons almost all conventions of the genre, offering an experience more akin to the classicDungeons &amp; DragonsthanFinal Fantasy. With only a broad directive to reach the mythical tree Yggdrasil, gameplay consists of exploring dungeons for clues to its location."Explore" should be taken literally too – played first-person, the game lets you chart maps through the depths, marking down each hidden passage, treasure or refuge. Cartography is a lost art in gaming. Party members are designed and named to personal preference, too, and customised with branching skill paths. The trade-off is that the game is unapologetically difficult, even early turn-based battles presenting significant challenges. It's also incredibly old school, with every conversation or interaction requiring navigating menus.Persevere though and there are few other titles capable of eliciting such an extraordinary sense of accomplishment for each tiny milestone.
There had been an 11-year wait for the lastXCOMgame, concluded with last year's wonderful, turn-based strategy outing,Enemy Unknown, but avoiding any deserved laurel-resting less than 10 months later, we have another.The Bureau, however, is a very different title – a fast-paced squad shooter set in 1960s America, explaining the origins ofXCOM. Gamers control generic, troubled hero William Carter through various missions, with two AI-controlled teammates in support. These allies must be ordered around the battlefield and will level up through the game – as long as they don't die.The team-based shooting mechanic is satisfying and the story is compelling, butThe Bureauis hampered by a number of small flaws. It's a visually disappointing game, despite its unique setting. The team AI is inconsistent and there are too many monotonous dialogue scenes. Certainly a good game and pleasing not to have to wait so long, but not quite the classic to whichXCOMfans have grown accustomed.
Rome has a problem – it lacks resources. Not in the sense of grain or cattle or anything else the real empire may have lacked. No, instead it's the decidedly modern problem of computational resources it struggles to obtain. Make no mistake, a monstrously powerful system is required to get the best of Creative Assembly's overwhelmingly detailed historical strategy game. Which is a shame, as players eager to conquer the ancient world through a mix of military might, diplomacy and subterfuge – all areas the game excels in – may find themselves hard pressed to make it beyond the prologue before encountering game-killing slowdown or curious bugs.If your kit passes muster, though,Rome IIproves to be a superlative effort, offering flexible routes to victory and impressive scope, with exceptional naval battles livening gameplay considerably. Deep, involving and varied, it's one of the finest strategy games available – if you can run it.
Not long ago the idea of 3D printing was as outlandish as a flying car. This autumn it becomes a tangible if bizarre reality for everyone. On London's Oxford Street the groundbreaking technology is to be made available to department store customers who want to buy a reproduction plastic bust of themselves, while at the Victoria &amp; Albert Museum in Kensington this weekend the controversial symbol of this design innovation – the 3D-printed gun – goes on display for the first time.Curators at the museum believe the notorious gun, which was developedin America by Texan law student Cody Wilson this spring, is the clearest way to illustrate the issues that lie ahead as the technology becomes widely available."We have been talking to Cody Wilson for a while because his prototypes seemed to us an important thing for the museum to have," said Kieran Long, a senior curator of contemporary exhibits. "When I started here we spent time thinking about how we could represent things that are happening today in design. Advocates of technological developments often overstate their impact, but there is no doubt that this is a major step. And I think itis the V&amp;A's job to helppeople to ask how they want the world to be."In May the invention of the printed gun, or "wiki weapon", sparked intense debate, but Long believes the potential effects of the 3D printer are not yet understood. The museum has acquired two prototypes of the Liberator gun, one disassembled weapon and a number of archive items to add to its collection of 3D-printed objects."So far people have focused on the ability to print out things at home, such as toys, but this seems to be only part of it. In my view, the gun blew all that away. It showed the fuller implications of the dissemination of the means of production. Everybody is now potentially a manufacturer."The difficulty the museum had securing this exhibit gives some indication of what Long means. On Friday Wilson was still waiting to secure an American export licence in order to send one of his original guns to Britain, despite the fact that in theory it could be illegally sent all over the world in a digital format."We have a sophisticated team of art handlers who are experienced at bringing in highly unusual objects, so the problem is on his side," said Long. "He cannot get an export licence and until we hear about that we will display a London-printed stand-in."WhileWilson's company, Defense Distributed,has a licence to make guns in Texas, it is not clear if he has legal permission to circulate the means of production  among others. As a result he was not happy to accept the V&amp;A's invitation to bring the gun over himself."When we asked him to come over he said he couldn't because he might be arrested. There isn't a law that covers this clearly," said Long. "There is no legal framework yet for this kind of activity."The museum asked for help from a central London 3D-printing company, but managers said they were not comfortable making the whole gun. "It is not as simple for them here as it is for Cody to get a licence from the state of Texas, so the company said they would make most of it and then make the rest of the components as plaster models."The incident, Long says, is another interesting indication of the new questions 3D printing raises."It shows we are right at the cutting edge of this technology now and people are having to use their own moral compasses until the law catches up," he&nbsp;said.The museum has acquired guns as part of London Design Festival, which begins this weekend. It already has a licence to store guns, as it holds the national store of weapons and armoury. In any case the 3D printed gun requires one extra metal component – a firing pin – so would not fire.Meanwhile,Selfridgesis to offer customers 3D models of themselves from £99 in a pop-up printing store opening next month and run by iMakr. The image is captured with 40 digital cameras and the bust produced is more like ceramic than plastic.The market for this kind of reproduction is unpredictable, but iMakr founder Sylvain Preumont tellstheObserver'snewTechMonthlythat the limits on 3D printing are imposed by our imagination, not by technology.Long is reserving judgment for now on the future of the printers. The expense will be prohibitive for a while, he suspects, although a cheaper model now costs only £669 and the price is continuing to fall."It is going to be some time before many of us can own them," said Long. "The other factor is that governments will gear up to regulating the industry."The NSA story run by theGuardianhas shown that new technology companies do acquiesce and install the required software if they are asked to. And scanners on everyday printers are already fitted with coding that makes it impossible for them to copy banknotes to prevent counterfeiting."
