This week's Technology section is now onlinehere. Forthe cover story, I've had a look atWeb 2.0, and there's a fascinating piece by Andrew Losowsky onNégone, the world's first immersive interactive game. Keith Stuart advises you tobuy better gamesthis Christmas, Michael Pollit looks atsplogs, plus all the regular slots and more.
The Wall Street Journal says: "No self-respecting industry these days is without a must-read blog. Although they vary wildly on fine points like accuracy, they are now so widely read that it's assumed anybody in the business is up to speed on the latest postings. For outsiders, they are also a window into the inner workings, preoccupations and gossip of fields ranging from real estate to mergers and acquisitions."Then it gives a run-down of the must-read blogs from Curbed.com ("attempts to deflate real-estate hype") via adrants.com ("one of the best ways to keep up on Madison Avenue's ups and downs") to www.rgemonitor.com/blog/roubini ("tracks monetary issues, among others, through a macroeconomic lens").Separately, WSJ columnist Walt Mossberg has writtenMossberg's Favorite Tech Blogs.
Doc Searls of Linux Journal has published his longest and, he reckons, most important post:Saving the Net: How to Keep the Carriers from Flushing the Net Down the Tubes. He writes:The carriers have been lobbying Congress for control of the Net since Bush the Elder was in office. Once they get what they want, they'll put up the toll booths, the truck scales, the customs checkpoints -- all in a fresh new regulatory environment that formalizes the container cargo business we call packet transport. This new environment will be built to benefit the carriers and nobody else. The "consumers"? Oh ya, sure: they'll benefit too, by having "access" to all the good things that carriers ship them from content providers. Is there anything else? No.As an example of carrier thinking, Doc quotes a Business Week interview with Edward Whiteacre, chief executive officer of gianttelco, SBC:How concerned are you about Internet upstarts like Google, MSN, Vonage, and others?How do you think they're going to get to customers? Through a broadband pipe. Cable companies have them. We have them. Now what they would like to do is use my pipes free, but I ain't going to let them do that because we have spent this capital and we have to have a return on it. So there's going to have to be some mechanism for these people who use these pipes to pay for the portion they're using. Why should they be allowed to use my pipes?The Internet can't be free in that sense, because we and the cable companies have made an investment and for a Google or Yahoo! or Vonage or anybody to expect to use these pipes [for] free is nuts!
Can an elephant learn to tap-dance? That was the question we asked about IBM when it ruled the data processing world, and most early personal computer users thought it couldn't. We were wrong, as the continuing market dominance of IBM PC-based systems testifies. IBM entered the market late - the PC was launched in 1981, four years after the Apple II - but that didn't stop it succeeding.Having achieved its aim of becoming "the IBM of software", Microsoft now faces a similar problem with competition emerging on the web. Like IBM, it has become mired in bureaucracy, and takes years to ship products, and for much the same reasons. Startups with lightweight products and few customers can produce new versions quickly, and if they are web-based, ship them instantly. Behemoths with huge, feature-laden products and hundreds of millions of customers can't, because the task is much bigger and mainstream customers are far more sensitive to change.Many geeks like the idea of six-monthly or annual operating system upgrades. In the real world, a large corporation can easily take a year to decide to upgrade its computers, because the new version has to be tested with perhaps thousands of current applications and procedures. It then takes another two years to roll out the upgrade.Fine, but there's a problem: lots of people don't work for large corporations. These are the users Microsoft now wants to reach with its Windows Live and Office Live websites, named and modelled after the successful Xbox Live online gaming service. And just as Xbox Live does not make games consoles and packaged games obsolete, Windows and Office Live are not intended to make PCs or packaged software obsolete. Instead, they will provide extended features and support - and, Microsoft hopes, new revenue streams.Windows Live, for example, will provide continuous updates and operating system patches, online virus checking, and extra utilities such as back-ups. Of course, you already get patches and utilities from the free Windows Update service. In Windows Live, however, you'll get the same thing with advertising, plus the option to subscribe to OneCare, which offers a more comprehensive service. Both are designed to put more money into Microsoft's pockets.Microsoft has been trying to expand its service and subscription businesses for a decade. The problem with blockbuster software releases like Windows XP and Office is that they make your revenues lumpy. It is much better if you can sell software as a service, because users pay every month whether you ship an upgrade or not. So rather than being just a threat, web-based services give Microsoft the chance to add revenues - always assuming, of course, users don't defect to free alternatives.But just as IBM didn't abandon its $30bn mainframe and server businesses when it launched the PC, Microsoft isn't about to abandon its $40bn software business to do everything on the web. Last week, Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer told eWeek: "You're going to have the transaction model where you sell something, there'll be a subscription model where you pay for something as you use it, and there'll be some things that'll be funded via advertising or essentially as part of a bigger idea. So I think you're going to see a variety of business models and we're embracing all of them."Microsoft's product pipeline is stuffed with blockbuster releases from the new SQL Server to Office 12 and Windows Vista. The Live hype may be intended to change your image of Microsoft as a stodgy old software company, but that's where the money is.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Windows XP used to start up fast, but can now take many minutes. Various programs may have got into my startup, but how can I recognise and get rid of them? LenMany software suppliers like to run small programs in the background so their application loads quickly. But they all take time to preload and can slow down your machine. Also, viruses and Trojans run as background programs, so it's a good idea to keep an eye on what's being loaded.Legitimate programs usually put an icon in the SysTray, next to the clock on the Windows Taskbar. Right-clicking an icon will often let you tell the program not to load. However, Microsoft provides msconfig, a good utility for controlling how Windows starts up. To run it, click Start, select Run, typemsconfigin the box and click OK. The Startup tab on the far right lists the programs being loaded, but it's worth looking through the other tabs. Microsoft has a trouble-shooting guide to using it: search Google for Q310560.Many startup utilities do the same job in a friendlier way, and I have recommended William Yang's freeStartUp Inspector for Windows. This helps solve the problem of not knowing what the background programs do. Run StartUp Inspector and click the button marked Consult. This identifies as many programs as it can, and gives them a rating -- it puts a star next to programs required by the system, and an exclamation mark if they're Not Recommended. Unticking a file will stop it loading when Windows boots.Startup utilities rarely recognise all programs being loaded, so you may have to research a few. Look at the Task List pages athttp://www.answersthatwork.com/Tasklist_pages/tasklist.htmand Paul Collins'Pacs Portal. Use a search engine to look up the names of files still not accounted for.If all else fails, interrupt the start up (F8) and select Enable Boot Logging to create a log of the boot-up sequence. In NT/XP, this is saved in the Windows folder as ntbtlog. txt instead of bootlog.txt. It may be that Windows is trying to load something and failing, which is causing the boot delay.
AOL does not support wireless home internet network on its Silver (£17.99 a month) package. PC World is 99% sure that if I bought a router and card I could set up my own wireless network. Bill SmithTechnically, it should be possible, but AOL officially does not support it, so if anything goes wrong, you'll be on your own. Also, Silver only allows the use of one AOLscreen name (log-on) at a time. AOL supports Wi-Fi with more expensive packages, or consider switching suppliers.
Every year, gamers complain about the lack of original titles available for Christmas. And then, like obedient zombies, we buy the latest movie titles and sequels anyway. But stop the rot. Here are five pointers to help you buy better games and do your bit for a better industry.Say no to film and TV tie-insThese are generally belted out in nine months by newcomers treated little better than sweatshop workers. If you're fed the line, "the director was fully involved in the making of this game", beware. This means, roughly, "The director sent his lawyers to the studio with a 300-page guide, warning that if it were breached, the team would be shot."Avoid gangster adventuresThese are multiplying like bacteria, due to the success of the Grand Theft Auto series. Studio managers have looked at the games for 25 seconds and thought, "Ah, kids want hookers, guns and drugs". Generally, avoid any game featuring a young black man wielding a shotgun on the cover. Does it mention "gaining respect on da streets?" Is the hero an "ex-con with a grudge ta bear?" If so, walk away.The second world war is overThe market for this popular first-person shooter genre is saturated and developers are running out of authentic scenarios. There are a few decent titles (Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blood, for example), but this has to stop. Otherwise, next year you'll be playing the likes of Call of Valour 7: A Scuffle on the Boat Home.Try an original titlePut a game on your list that isn't a sequel or tie-in. This will be tricky, especially if you decide your purchases by buying whatever takes up the most shelf space in Game. Try the hack-'em-up God of War, the adventure title Fahrenheit or PSP puzzler Lumines. Of the seasonal releases, consider Activision's cowboy romp Gun, showbiz sim The Movies, or Xbox 360 title Kameo: Elements of Power.Download an independent gameWhy not drop out of the mainstream and download a game designed by passionate coders not compelled by corporations to write gangster adventures. You'll need a PC, Mac or Xbox 360 (Xbox Live features downloadable indie games), and the patience to hunt down gems such as Darwinia, Mutant Storm and Facade. Check out review sitesgametunnel.comordiygames.comand imagine how smug you'll feel when you discover the next Doom ...You are going to be bombarded with ads for blockbuster sequels and pestered for terrible games based on cartoons. Stand firm. Buy kids something smarter. They will thank you one day. We all will.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Interactive DVD games, played using just a DVD player and remote, will be big this Christmas. Universal has released 13 games, each priced at &pound;19.99, featuring much-loved franchises such as Wallace and Gromit, Who Wants to be a Millionaire? and Telly Addicts. Even videogame developers, such as Circle Studios, staffed by ex-employees of Tomb Raider developer Core Design, are turning their attention to DVD games.Such games generally provide an experience akin to playing a pub quiz machine or appearing on a TV quiz or game show. But they do provide some opportunity for inventiveness, as Universal's flagship title, Wallace and Gromit: The Curse of the Were-Rabbit demonstrates. As well as watching clips from the film and answering observation questions, players must play mini-games involving a variation on the whack-a-mole theme and tracing their way through a maze.Stuart Shaw, senior product manager at Universal, says: "We are hoping that this will be a year of rapid growth and experimentation for us within this genre. We believe there is a wider opportunity for the interactive genre than just quizzes." Jeremy Heath-Smith, chief executive of Circle Studios, which is about to release the title NOW That's What I Call a Music Quiz, adds: "We have identified three categories of DVD games: turn-based quiz games, story-driven DVD games, and where, for example, you might be playing a game of football, but the game is question driven."DVD games won't have an enormous amount of replay value, but they undoubtedly provide a sociable experience for families. Heath-Smith points out that a staggering 400m DVD players have now been sold worldwide, occupying: "the best position in the household, below the TV".Circle Studios pays to acquire licences - including Fifa, the NBA and The Discovery Channel - and publishes the resulting DVD games. Universal, meanwhile, is supplementing titles based on its TV and film properties with celebrity-fronted DVD games, including a horse-racing game presented by Frankie Dettori, a dog-racing game with Vinnie Jones and a poker game hosted by Nick Moran. It is even selling a Spin the Bottle DVD game, which, one imagines, it expects to liven up more than a few New Year's Eve parties.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
BuzzRelentless Software/Sony, PlayStation 2, &pound;39.994/5No matter how effectively videogames insinuate themselves into the pop culture mainstream, there will always be a significant proportion of people who view the standard joypad as unapproachably scary. Two years ago, Sony reached out to them with its camera-based EyeToy. And just in time for Christmas, the same company has developed that idea with Buzz, a pop quiz game that is equally unthreatening to those with a phobia of controllers.Buzz comes with four hand-held buzzers that have a big, red, illuminated hemispherical thumb button above four rectangular, colour-coded buttons. The game is a moderately amusing spoof of TV game shows, complete with a cheesy host and his lovely virtual assistant. Each round of gameplay involves listening to a snatch of music, after which you may have to, for example, answer a related question quicker than your rivals to amass the most points, or nominate a fellow contestant to answer an as-yet-unseen question pertaining to it. The rounds are so varied that you feel producers of real-life game shows might want to take note.Buzz isn't perfect: it would be nice to be able to edit out the rounds you least like, and sometimes the inexplicably re-recorded snatches of music sound nothing like the originals. But it does have some flexibility. You can concentrate on recent music, older tunes or both, and there are three game lengths.The point, though, is that it provides a wondrously sociable gameplay experience, bringing families or friends together in a manner more akin to a board game. It is the only videogame you could imagine playing with your grandparents and preteen relatives simultaneously. Indeed, I will be taking my copy to my parents' house this Christmas in lieu of the traditional (and inevitably disappointing) board game.Games such as Buzz, which do not pretend to offer conventional gameplay, generally elicit contempt from hardcore gamers, but they show how the industry has finally begun to think hard about how to expand its audience. Sony has pioneered that trend, with EyeToy and SingStar, but its rivals are also getting in on the act.The Live online service supporting Microsoft's forthcoming Xbox 360 console, for example, will include an impressive portfolio of downloadable casual games, belying Microsoft's previous schmoozing of hardcore gamers, and Nintendo's Revolution, with its innovative, TV remote-style controller, will aim to consign the joypad to history.Committed gamers are aware that videogames aren't just about trawling orc-infested dungeons, but games such as Buzz will finally get that message across to the general public.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A year ago I was invited to contribute to a House of Commons report on why major software systems are failing. This gave me access to globally collated figures which showed that while programs that are household names work remarkably well, the majority of software projects fail more often than they work. It is what we have suspected all along. The official figures, however, reveal a scary scale.This year, the world's IT expenditure is projected at $1,700bn (&pound;975bn). About one-third of projects fail completely and another third have complicated problems. Those that finish are likely to be completed several months or years late, on average 180% over budget. These figures do not include hush-hush corporate projects or projects started at home.Worldwide total IT wastage is considered to be more than $1 trillion a year - enough to pay the developing world's debt by 2008. Why is this happening? IT developers and engineers are in the top quartile educationally, and well above average in intelligence and enterprise. So I decided to ask some of the best minds in the industry what makes IT projects work.Almost without exception they responded by generalising, and explaining how difficult it is to write saga lengths of syntactically correct code. Then they would home in on some special area, invariably the one in which they had the most knowledge. Behind it was an inference that without their unique blend of herbs and spices the projects would fail.I would ask, "Are you a project manager? Or an accountant?". They'd often look up stunned and blushing as if I had Holmesian powers of deduction. It never occurred to them that there is no magic bullet to put software development right. If there were, we would have found it years ago. The truth is that the breadth of disciplines required often throws the brightest minds off-course. There can be as many as 20 sets of knowledge required.Stepping stonesInitially, I thought this would bar everyone but another Einstein. Then I began to take note of what experts said and discovered you do not need to be a lawyer, statistician, accountant, researcher or sales director. You just have to know enough to make your software project work. Creating successful software is, therefore, more like crossing a river by a series of stepping stones than one blind leap of faith.Unfortunately, while everyone remembers to have the project management and programming stepping stones in place, not everyone remembers there are equally important ones such as marketing, finance, PR, customer research and support. In internal projects these are different - you may not need PR but you will certainly need good communications.Projects that fail try to cross the river in too few steps. Successful projects use 15 or more. Many who have been successful owe more to luck than design. Was Bill Gates the chimp that got lucky? That's not meant to sound derogatory, but so few entrepreneurs reach the other side that the answer has to be "probably".So how are you to succeed? The answer isn't necessarily to bring in professionals: the chances are you already know what you should be doing. Only that you don't know that you know it.You need a comprehensive checklist to make sure you don't miss a stepping stone. Don't wait until you put too many feet wrong and find yourself in splits across the Rubicon. By the time you discover your software sinks or swims, it is too late.Most projects fail because their creators did not give them the best chance. If you really want to succeed, remember: the more stepping stones in place, the greater your chance of making it to the bank.&#183;Ed Hasted is the author of Software That Sells, published by Wiley.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Is splog the new spam? That's the question being asked by an increasingly irate weblogging community as it grapples with the dodgy sites that are starting to ruin search engine results. And top of the list causing the splog explosion is Google, the search engine giant.A splog is a spam or fake blog created to achieve a high search engine result. The splogger makes money from advertising placed in the splog - often using Google's AdSense service - or by directing visitors to e-commerce sites. Topics range from cruises and health to porn and gambling. On a cheap-looking splog about gambling, to take one example, AdSense advertisements may link to well-known betting firms. The placing of these advertisements is beyond the firms' control, and end up wasting their impact.The splog issue has grown quickly and nobody knows how many there are. Tracking service Technorati, which follows 20m blogs, says up to 8% of the 70,000 blogs created every day are fake. Feedster blocks thousands a day while Splogspot.com publishes a weekly list. The latest shows 41,000, of which 34,000 are on Google's free Blogspot hosting service.Splogfighter, an anonymous American, was so incensed that he started a one-man war. He is prompting Google to delete thousands of splogs a day from Blogspot."The splog situation has deteriorated quite considerably lately," he says. He has personally downed 25,000 splogs since late August. "One spammer created about 13,000 spam blogs, which set off sharp criticism of Google's inaction."That inaction has created a money-making opportunity for sploggers tricking search engines by overusing key words and links. Such chicanery boosts the search ranking of featured pages, and draws in visitors who click on pay-per-click advertisements. Splogs can be built quickly by simple automatic scripts or programs.Such stunts have caused a sharp reaction from bloggers and retaliation from search engine IceRocket.com, which temporarily stopped indexing Blogspot sites.Fighting the frustration"In my opinion, Google's Blogspot is by far the worst offender," says Blake Rhodes, chief executive of IceRocket. "The blog software people need to make the signup process a lot more difficult and users should have to verify each post by email. We are indexing Blogspot again and will keep a close eye on things."Rhodes' suggestion is aimed at perhaps the biggest issue - ensuring reliable search engine results. Bloggers say splogs have no value, and frustrated users find splog- infested search results contain little of value. The problem is that, unlike email filtering, they can do nothing to stop it.Jason Goldman, product manager for Blogger, says it is taking action such as visual word verification and various filters. A "flag as objectionable" feature allows users to report splogs to the company's anti-spam and anti-fraud teams."These tools are just the initial steps as we work with other blog services for a larger solution," says Goldman, who believes only a minority of the millions of blogs on Blogspot contain spam. Google deleted 13,000 splogs and published the list that caused the original outcry.But isn't there a conflict of interest? Splogs earn Google revenue from AdSense adverts, and provide exposure for advertising customers unwittingly included on splogs - including Bupa, Halifax Bank, and Co-Op Travel. However, such companies may dislike their image being cheapened by splogs and the unscrupulous getting a cut of their advertising fees."Spam blogs cost Google money both on the hosting and infrastructure side for Blogger as well on the AdSense side with spam prevention," says Goldman. "We take our obligation to our AdSense advertisers seriously and spam, left unchecked, would dilute the confidence our advertisers place in us. By being aggressive on combating spam, we want to make sure that doesn't happen."Yet this is a battle Google will not win. There are always people who see the internet as a money-making tool. Just as spammers rapidly adapt to anti-spam measures, the sploggers are learning fast, too. It's a highly technical war and the situation is likely to get worse before it gets better.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Some of the most complicated and wordy works of English literature are being compressed into the jerky speedwriting of text messages, to help students choose classics and master their revision.The dark labyrinth of plots in Bleak House and the epic verse of Paradise Lost are among masterpieces picked for drastic slimming into a couple of lines for sending automatically to mobile phones.The scheme uses the crafty shorthand of texting to turn the most famous line in Hamlet into 2b?Ntb?=? Key passages to quote in exams or seminars are also picked out, such as F Scott Fitzgerald's warning to the Great Gatsby about his gilded youth: "MembaDatAlDaPplnDaWrldHvntHdDaVantgsUvAd".The service is being launched by the student phone service dot mobile, with heavyweight backing from John Sutherland, the Lord Northcliffe professor emeritus of English literature at University College London, who also chaired the judging panel of this year's Man Booker prize."Some may argue that Dickens, for instance, is really too big a morsel to be swallowed by text," he said. "But the 'Great Inimitable' himself began working life as a shorthand writer. He would, I suspect, have approved of the brevity if nothing else."Prof Sutherland said texting was an underused but promising educational resource. "Take the dot mobile ending to Jane Eyre for example - MadwyfSetsFyr2Haus," he said. "Was ever a climax better compressed?"The initiative will initially be tied to national curriculum and university course texts, but dot mobile's inputters have wider ambitions, including a complete, shrunken works of Shakespeare.Classics compressed (and what they actually mean)Romeo and JulietFeudTween2hses--Montague&amp; Capulet. RomeoM falls_&lt;3w/_ JulietC@mary Secretly Bt R kils J's Coz&amp;isbanishd. J fakes Death. As Part of Plan2b-w/R Bt_leter Bt It Nvr Reachs Him. Evry1confuzd--- bothLuvrs kil Emselves.TranslationA feud between two houses - Montague and Capulet. Romeo Montague falls in love with Juliet Capulet and they marry secretly, but Romeo kills Juliet's cousin and is banished. Juliet fakes her own death. As part of the plan to be with Romeo she writes him a letter but it never reaches him. Everyone is confused and both lovers kills themselves.Pride and Prejudice5SistrsWntngHsbnds.NwMenIn Twn-Bingly&amp;Darcy Fit&amp;Loadd. BigSisJaneFals4B,2ndSisLizH8s DCozHesProud.SlimySoljrWikam SysDHsShadyPast.TrnsOutHes ActulyARlyNysGuy&amp;RlyFancysLiz.SheDecydsSheLyksHim.Evry1GtsMaryd.Five sisters wanting husbands. There are two new men in town - Bingley and Darcy. They are handsome and wealthy. Big sister Jane falls for Bingley, but second sister Elizabeth hates Darcy because he is proud. Slimy soldier Wickham says Darcy has a shady past. It turns out that he's actually a really nice guy and really fancies Elizabeth. She decides that she likes him. Everyone gets married.Bleak HouseEstherBecumsWardOfJarndyce WhosInCortCase.OvaWardsRich&amp;Ada (L8aACuple).Tulkinghorn-nosyLawyer-WorksOutLadyDedlock= E'sMum.CaseEnds w/ no1 gtn money. E marrysSexyDoc-Liv 2geva InBleakHse.Rich&amp;L.DedlockDie.Esther becomes the ward of Jarndyce, who is involved in a court case about Richard and Ada (who are later a couple). Tulkinghorn - a nosy lawyer - works out that Lady Dedlock is Esther's mother. The case is concluded with no one receiving any money. Esther marries the sexy doctor and they live together in Bleak House. Richard and Lady Dedlock die.
Microsoft Chief Executive Steve Ballmer told reporters in Tokyo yesterday that he expects successful launches of the Xbox 360 in the United States, Europe and Japan.Accordingto Reuters, a confident Ballmer proclaimed:"We have very strong momentum, particularly in the northern parts of Europe, United States, Australia ... I know for sure, 100 percent, we will do much much better in Japan than we did with Xbox 1"Confident, but hardly the stuff of bullish hyperbole. After all, Xbox 360 will monopolise the next-gen market for several months, and Microsoft has spent the last two years feverishly courting Japanese developers, evangalising its new hardware and signing up exclusive deals. Let's face it, if 360 doesn't massively outsell the spectacularly underperforming Xbox in Japan it would be a disaster.Futhermore, the company is apparently looking to sell 2.75 million to 3 million Xbox 360 units in the first 90 days - a reasonably conservative figure.Come on Microsoft - you're not launching a new edition of Office here. Give it some welly!
This week'sTechnology supplementis in a playful mood - games, obviously. Thereview of the weekis my take on GTA: Liberty City Stories, a game you may have heard of. In a double review shocker there is also an evaluation of Sony's quiz party game,Buzz. After a couple of weeks playing Liberty City Stories I can fully appreciateKeith's callfor less gangster adventures, but will the marketing guys be listening? The game frenzy continues, with alookat a real-life "immersive interactive" game that sounds like Laser Quest with knobs on.
So Nintendo's released the Nintendo Micro, an SP derivative. They've made a big fuss over the new release of Nintendogs on the DS (which doesn't play on the SP or the Micro, but has just launched WiFi). The company's also in the headlines for their forthcoming Revolution. Sure, we understand that these are each different machines with different capabilities, but we follow these things. How confused is the casual population - the very folks Nintendo are trying to capture with the Micro, Nintendogs and the Revolution?
It's time to really test the durability of your PSP - Capcom is bringing an extended version of Street Fighter Alpha 3 to Sony's machine:"Street Fighter Alpha 3 Max is enhanced with additional original content specifically designed for the portable system including Wi-Fi functionality and extra gameplay modes. Adding to an impressive roster of more than 30 renowned characters from the world famous Street Fighter universe, four additional fighters are joining the fierce competition."Real-time tag team brawls (courtesy of the Variable Battle Mode) and a Wi-Fi League Battle Mode that allows a maximum of eight players to fight it out, make this an enticing debut for the seemingly invincible Street Fighter series. It's out in the US in February, so we can expect to see it in roughly 86 years. Oh yeah, the 'new' characters are Yun, Maki and Eagle, from Capcom vs. SNK 2 and Ingrid from Capcom Fighting Evolution.So, when was the last timeyouplayed a Street Fighter title? Many have found it difficult to keep up with the explosion of sequels and spin-offs over the last decade, all introducing new characters, fight modes, combo systems and tag team set-ups. Street Fighter EX Plus Alpha on PlayStation and Marvel vs Capcom 2 on Dreamcast remain my favourites...
The past 12 months have seen an explosion in sales of satellite navigation systems. Once the preserve of gadget freaks and professional drivers, they are now entering the mainstream, with predicted sales of around 6m units across Europe this year. Much of the growth has been fuelled by a drop in price. Whereas a few years ago even basic systems cost &pound;500, there are now models such as the Navman iCN320 and the Garmin I3 retailing for less than &pound;200.Even the most basic systems work well, with manufacturers focusing on adding features and tarting up the often blank-looking hardware. Two good examples are the Bluemedia BM6380 from Evesham System (&pound;300), which uses map software by Navigator, and the Navman iCN 550.Aimed at high-end users, the &pound;600 Navman is one of the first GPS units to offer dynamic traffic updates. Delivered via FM signals, they let users know where a traffic incident has occurred via an icon on the screen and then work with the software to offer an alternative route. The iCN 550 is an excellent piece of hardware - it has maps of most of Europe on its 4GB hard disk - and if you spend a lot of time in the car the updates are well worth having.The Bluemedia BM6380, on the other hand, is aimed more at the casual user. Its unique selling point is that it can inform the driver when a speed camera is near. The other headline feature of the PDA-style device is that it is one of the first standalone GPS devices with an integrated MP3 player/JPeg viewer. You can either listen to music via its speakers or hook it up to your car stereo. The downside is that as the music is housed on a Secure Digital card - just like the maps - you can't listen to music while using the navigation device.In spite of its price the Bluemedia performs its core task, navigation, with aplomb. Its maps might not be as elegant as the Navman and its screen is not quite as bright but, crucially, it is a cinch to set up and relatively simple to use.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City StoriesSony PSP, Rockstar/Take 2, &#163;29.993/5What do you get when you cross the hottest gadget with the biggest gaming brand? We're talking Grand Theft Auto on the PSP, the handheld version of the series that revolutionised the industry. Free-roaming action, spiky storylines, over-the-top violence - all pioneered by GTA 3. Achieving popular approval by antagonising the usual suspects, who were upset by the violence and language of the 18-rated games, didn't hurt either. But the real reason for GTA's success is that it made other games redundant. Why buy a separate driving or third-person game when you can get it all in GTA?After three blockbuster titles on home consoles, the release of the first handheld version is big news. Especially for Sony, whose PSP may look the part, but has been lacking a decent game. Not any more. Liberty City Stories is the real deal.Small wonderFirst things first, this is a tour de force of miniaturisation. Poster quotes aside, it really is. Almost everything you would expect to see in the PlayStation 2 version is here. The cars, the music, the annoying control issues. Yes, GTA is a wonder when you are behind the wheel, but step out of the car and your character stumbles around as you battle as much with the camera as with your assailants.So how does it play? Pretty much exactly like the PS2 versions, give or take a song or two. It is all up to you. You could head for the characters that give you missions and hurry the narrative along. Alternatively, you could take a sightseeing tour of the city and uncover its numerous secrets. Ah yes, the city in GTA - the ultimate digital playground.Pastimes here include carjacking, whacking innocent civilians with baseball bats, street racing, stunt competitions. Bored with that? Then you could grab some guns, go on a rampage and mow down civilians and the police. Phew. GTA clearly exists in a moral vacuum. But play the game, which most critics of its content won't have done, and it is quickly apparent how the bald description underestimates the humorous reality. The GTA titles are the ultimate gaming black comedies.But even the most anarchic action eventually loses its appeal and the focus shifts to the missions that remain the meat of the game. Playing as returning mafioso Toni Cipriani, you work for different bosses on your way to the top. The cut-scenes and their excellent character animations certainly help spin the yarn, which, while overly derivative, at least gives the relentless violence some context.But there is so much more to GTA's appeal than guns'n'cars. Take the radio stations. Riding a motorbike while Billie Jean blasted out was a highlight of the 80s-styled Vice City. However, Liberty City's less than iconic setting - 1998 - means musical highlights are thin on the ground. In fact, there is hardly any really recognisable music. Instead, the pastiche ads and presenters are the real audio stars. Thankfully, the classical station, which adds gravitas to the urban carnage, makes a welcome return.So all well and good, then? Not really. The PSP controls are shaky, with the imprecise nub causing both heart and thumb to ache. The lack of proper camera controls means you'll spend a lot of time running into walls or oncoming traffic, neither of which does your suit any favours. But combat is worse, with an unhelpful targeting system that makes it hard to nail the right enemy, especially in a group situation. Most battles quickly descend into an unsophisticated static shootout.High price of failureThe biggest problem, however, is the backtracking needed when you fail a mission. The uneven difficulty levels - some of the early sections are tougher than those later in the game - mean failure is a regular feature. Applying slightly too much pressure on a corner, clipping a streetlight or pedestrian, or even getting distracted while changing the radio can mean an end to your mission. That means a tedious reload and drive back to the beginning. This is unforgivable game design for a handheld device - time is tight on a 10-minute bus ride.One of the few nods to the host format is the inclusion of some multiplayer games - a first for the series. But the variations on the usual standbys - king of the hill, capture the flag - don't really work unless you can gather at least four people to play. Even then they feel superfluous, more tick the box for marketing than multiplayer treat.There is no doubt that GTA Liberty City Stories is a serious technical achievement. Getting fully fledged GTA fame into the palms of your hands is tough, so kudos to the people responsible. You can drive, shoot and frolic in the urban playground, all while on the 7.32 to Waterloo. And for most people, this will be more than enough.But there is a spark missing. Perhaps it is the loose controls, the uninspired mission design or the fact that on-foot combat remains flawed. Or maybe, after three similar games on the home consoles, the thrill has begun to fade. Certainly the lazy racial stereotyping and misogynistic characterisation has become tedious. Play it, enjoy it, show it off; GTA Liberty City Stories deserves admiration but not adoration.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Tony Hawk is rarely seen without his, Paris Hilton famously got hacked on hers and now you can own one, too. America's hottest phone - the Sidekick II - is available in the UK via T-Mobile.Yet the competition in the UK is a lot hotter than it is Stateside, and is a phone that's over a year old going to be seen as cutting edge by tech-savvy Brits?There's no denying that the Sidekick II is an intriguing device. It looks different, has unique features and works differently from most rival handsets. It isn't especially stylish and is also rather large for a market that is obsessed with super-skinny phones.The Sidekick II isn't stacked with the latest features, either. Bizarrely, for a youth-oriented phone, it has no MP3 player or space for a storage card, and its camera is low-resolution VGA standard. There's no Bluetooth and the 240x160 pixel screen looks very old compared with monitors on more recent phones.Yet where the Sidekick II scores is as a communication device. Gently nudge the screen and it flips round to reveal a large Qwerty keyboard that is a dream to use. In addition to email and texting, T-Mobile has included an AOL Instant Messaging option, which can be addictive. Keeping tabs on messages is also another key facility, as the Sidekick boasts a BlackBerry-like facility that checks for new email every 15 minutes.Another killer feature is one of the best web browsers on the market. It works in a similar way to the acclaimed Opera web browser in that there's no need to scroll horizontally to see the pages. The Sidekick II also works well with its accompanying web server, which automatically stores all your photos, message and contacts online. It is accessed via a dedicated web page - the origin of Paris Hilton's troubles.How successful the Sidekick II will be remains to be seen. It is a fantastic, some might say addictive, messaging device that's easy to operate and fun to use. Yet in terms of design and features it is a long way behind most contemporary handsets. I suspect a Sidekick III with a music player, memory card option and Bluetooth is in the offing, and releasing this phone is T-Mobile's way of getting a foothold before the big push for that model. In the meantime, if you are hooked on texting and instant messaging, check one out.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Put skills of 419 scammers to positive useI often receive the 419 offers mentioned (The lure of easy money, November 10). As a copywriter, I read them with interest: some are cleverly written and show a raw talent for sales. It is too bad the Nigerian government can't put these young men's enthusiasm and computer efforts to a better use - perhaps creating websites for health, education or community-based services. Or computer training.In a practical sense, scam emails are an annoyance. But they have been written by fellow human beings, so I ask politely to be removed from their mailing lists. I also remind them that what they are doing is forbidden by Islamic law. I have since received significantly fewer spams.I live in France and the violence and unrest in our suburbs show that some young men are driven to do things that are wrong. But men (and women) who have employment, along with the self-respect and financial rewards that this brings, are less likely to do things that cause harm to others.Salima HaddadThe writer did a thorough investigation, demystifying the "419 game". The world is full of greedy people, which is why such wild-eyed schemes thrive. I am a Nigerian, and get scam mails, too. But I am a struggling Nigerian, so maybe that is why I am not an easy target.But the article failed to mention the growth of these schemes in countries like South Africa, and in the west coast of Africa. People dogged by poverty only see it as a game and a lifeline out of penury. You have to be equally greedy to be interested in such schemes.Many of these guys see duping westerners as "reparation" for slavery and colonialism. It is a very complex issue and depends on which paradigm you view it from - reparation, game, greed or employment. Most people see it as a game of wits, and the artists are often called, with awe, "game-man". The only way out is for people not to lose their heads when they get mails promising fantastic and overnight wealth.Name and address suppliedGirl's award demeaningI feel endlessly patronised by such industry events as the Golden Joystick awards (Winners and losers, November 10). The idea of a "girl's choice" award is demeaning. Does the industry really expect female gamers to be wooed by something so predictable that just happens to be won by a typical "female" game such as Sims 2, which I'm constantly told by the games industry I should like when I'd much rather play the same games as my male friends.Maybe if they didn't feel the need to drape page 3 girls over everything, women gamers would feel more accepted. I know I'd feel more comfortable if I could pick up a games magazine and not find that half the advertising resembles soft porn.Until there is an end to the prevailing attitude that female gamers are rare, female gamers like me will continue to write irate letters despairing of the situation.Chlo&euml; Emmott, LiverpoolDownside of free callsVictor Keegan looks forward to the prospect of globally free calls using VoIP (Opinion, November 10). In the same issue, there are articles describing the menace of 419 crimes and phishing, not to mention spam. These are limited mainly to the email channel, with relatively few instances on the phone network. The main reason is that the marginal cost of sending emails is practically zero whereas each phone call costs at least a few pence. Once calls become free, expect to be called several times a day by automated audio spam services.David Harper, LondonBlogBack"Connected cocoons" (Growing up with the wired generation, November 10) will have profound implications in marketing, business, politics, family relations and even religion as today's teens mature. They will certainly shape teens' social skills, affecting the fundamental ways in which they interact.http://futurewire.blogspot.com
It's the one thing everyone wants to know: what will threaten the iPod's digital music market domination? St John's Innovation Centre in Cambridge may have found the answer, in the unassuming shape of the Hard-Fi juke box.This prototype device developed by Martin Brennan - an electronics designer with 3GA - was showcased at an event at the centre last week. It allows music to be transferred directly from a CD to MP3 format. No need for a computer or software.Simply insert your CD of choice, listen away as it quickly compresses and stores the songs, plug your MP3 player or mobile phone into the USB port on the front of the device, and you have portable playing in a matter of minutes."I think music should be about sticking a needle on a record," says Brennan, who recognises - like Apple - that widespread popularity is only likely if a product is both easy to use and looks good. Simple as that.While computer technology has provided innovative ways to find, buy and enjoy music, it has failed to deliver a solid successor to the traditional stereo. Too many users complain of compatibility problems between their PC and MP3 player, as well as the time-consuming ritual of downloading and installing software that often has to be regularly updated.The Hard-Fi has enough built-in memory to store about 700 albums, which makes it a good choice for truly computer-phobic music lovers or those who don't want to clutter up their PC's hard drive with melodies. Tracks are automatically named from an onboard database of 1.7m titles, and they can be searched using a remote control. Predictive text means you may only need to enter the first few letters of an artist or album title.In a nod to niceties, the device also beat-mixes one track subtly into the next, lets you create personal playlists and works as an in-car system.Brennan hopes it will be available in the first half of next year, with a retail price of between &pound;150 and &pound;200. As yet, he can't supply details of who the manufacturing company will be, so keep an eye onwww.hard-fi.org.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Speedier XPWindows XP used to start up fast, but can now take many minutes. Various programs may have got into my startup, but how can I recognise and get rid of them?LenJack Schofield:Many software suppliers like to run small programs in the background so their application loads quickly. But they all take time to preload and can slow down your machine. Also, viruses and Trojans run as background programs, so it's a good idea to keep an eye on what's being loaded.Legitimate programs usually put an icon in the SysTray, next to the clock on the Windows Taskbar. Right-clicking an icon will often let you tell the program not to load. However, Microsoft provides msconfig, a good utility for controlling how Windows starts up. To run it, click Start, select Run, type msconfig in the box and click OK. The Startup tab on the far right lists the programs being loaded, but it's worth looking through the other tabs. Microsoft has a trouble-shooting guide to using it: search Google for Q310560.Many startup utilities do the same job in a friendlier way, and I have recommended William Yang's free StartUp Inspector for Windows (www.windowsstartup.com). This helps solve the problem of not knowing what the background programs do. Run StartUp Inspector and click the button marked Consult. This identifies as many programs as it can, and gives them a rating - it puts a star next to programs required by the system, and an exclamation mark if they're Not Recommended. Unticking a file will stop it loading when Windows boots.Startup utilities rarely recognise all programs being loaded, so you may have to research a few. Look at the Task List pages athttp://tinyurl.com/1yy4and Paul Collins' Pacs Portal (http://tinyurl.com/uhp1). Use a search engine to look up the names of files still not accounted for.If all else fails, interrupt the start up (F8) and select Enable Boot Logging to create a log of the boot-up sequence. In NT/XP, this is saved in the Windows folder as ntbtlog. txt instead of bootlog.txt. It may be that Windows is trying to load something and failing, which is causing the boot delay.Silver Wi-FiAOL does not support wireless home internet network on its Silver (&pound;17.99 a month) package. PC World is 99% sure that if I bought a router and card I could set up my own wireless network.Bill SmithJS:Technically, it should be possible, but since AOL officially does not support it, you'll be on your own. Also, Silver only allows the use of one logon at a time. AOL supports Wi-Fi with more expensive packages, or consider switching suppliers.Backchat&#183;In responding to St. John Burkett's question about phishing, I rightly got told off for saying "you can always test these sites using a fake ID and password". I didn't intend to suggest, in Stefek Zaba's words, "a 'mere mortal' should explore a suspect site: they're likely to pick up malware whether by clicking on popup boxes or by the site exploiting weaknesses in their browser's configuration or programming." I was thinking more of a last-ditch test if someone had gone to a site, but wasn't sure about it.
It feels so familiar. I'm in a nightmarish future with a penchant for dramatic lighting. I have been sent to a bizarre 31st-century prison, where a series of puzzles will help me crack the security system and escape. There are ventilation shafts to crawl down, secret doors, ladders, dead ends and hidden bonuses. Several such games are available on PC, Xbox, PlayStation and GameCube, and now in a three-storey building in Madrid.As games become more interactive - using cameras and dance mats - N&eacute;gone claims to be the world's first immersive interactive game. Its Spanish creators, Differend Games, have spent four years and &euro;16.3m (&pound;11m) developing a gaming experience that feels like a cross between The Crystal Maze, Laser Quest and Half-Life.It works like this: each player has a wrist console that looks a little like a scuba-diving computer. The screen contains your score, your character's health and a list of tools obtained in the game. You select your mission (there are four individual missions and two group ones, ranging from "inoculate the virus" to "steal the secret weapon") and difficulty level. Security guards then escort you to your cell.Immerse yourselfThe game then becomes fully immersive, with a wonderful level of detail. Each of the more than 20 rooms has its own theme, and the adrenaline pumps hard as you explore the space - shooting down slides, climbing ladders or diving into a pit of small plastic balls. Sometimes it is like a giant adventure playground for adults.But it is not just about running around. Every time you see a screen, you place your wrist console beneath it. This activates your helper, one of four pre-recorded characters from an underground hackers' group. On the screen, they set you a challenge - a memory challenge or logic puzzle answered using the buttons on your wrist console, or something more physical, involving the room. Correct answers mean a score boost, and a tool that will help you complete your mission; incorrect ones soon add up to you being condemned to a punishment cell - and expelled from the game.As you play, the screens send you to different doors throughout the building, satisfyingly unlocked by your wrist console, leading to what could be a room filled with laser lights or an enormous bank vault (the building's former use).Although other players are in the same space, each person plays a unique game, and is sent on a different route. According to N&eacute;gone's creators, only 5% of players make it to the end on their first go - and they still won't have seen all the rooms. One game lasts between 45 and 90 minutes, and its database remembers players through their unique nicknames. Every time you return, at least 60% of the puzzles and the maze are new."What we've invented doesn't exist anywhere else," says Jorge Juan Garc&iacute;a Alonso, one of the few e-commerce entrepreneurs in a country where internet usage is among the lowest in western Europe. He was co-founder of Kelkoo, the European price-comparison website bought last year by Yahoo for &pound;321m. With his sister Silvia, 34, he also founded Netjuice, a new-media business, and from there created Differend, to realise their dream of making a real-life videogame. Jorge Juan, 39, is a financier with a banking background; Silvia creates the design and technology, alongside dedicated teams in Barcelona and Madrid.Rapid evolution"We began designing N&eacute;gone four years ago," says Silvia. "But advances in technology have evolved fast since then. For instance, the emergence of radio frequency (RFID) tags has allowed us to place three modes of communication in the wrist consoles - RFIDs, infrared and radio control - so we have a great deal more control over the adventure. What you do in one area has a significant impact on what happens to you later on."The pair claim inspiration from online role-playing games and the films Tron and Cube, and their ambitions stretch far beyond the game's location next to Real Madrid's Bernabeu stadium."At the end of 2006, we will open in New York City," says Jorge Juan. "We've planned for 60 locations over the next 10 years, all over the world. It's aggressive, but we believe we have a strong product that will revolutionise the industry."In the leisure world, there have been no interesting physical-space advances in the past 20 years. Why have videogames triumphed? Because you're the protagonist, you have to make the choices, and what you do changes your experience.""Theme parks are about physical sensations, making you dizzy," adds Silvia. "But we're not a theme park. We don't want to create Space Mountain. We want to make a real adventure. You are not a passive spectator, you're inside the game."Every player automatically becomes a member of N&eacute;gone Online, an exclusive web-based application where you can meet players, chat, arrange to play missions at the prison, and complete extra challenges that can impact on your next real-world game."It's a game with many ways of playing it," says Jorge Juan. "On your first game, it's easier and more instinctive. If you start to win quickly, things will get harder. If you come back again, the difficulty increases again. We're adding more sophisticated levels and online elements as we go, to try to attract both occasional and frequent players."So far, the game is not perfect. The on-screen narratives are fairly basic, and the puzzles are often obscure and too far removed from the fictional setting. The online element won't impress regular gamers, either.But N&eacute;gone triumphs above all in its design. This is a physically demanding space, created by film-set designers, where you have to crawl, climb and slide to complete your missions. And it's glorious, heart-pumping fun.By 2007, according to Differend Games, a version of N&eacute;gone will contain robots. If anything can get hardcore gamers off the couch, this could just be it.
In our cold modern world it seems that everything has to be measured - and now computers are doing it to music. As anyone with an iPod or other digital music player knows, as a song is played, a little black dot moves along the line between "start" and "finish", with an onscreen counter telling us how much time remains. Every chord takes us deeper into the song but closer to the end.These devices for playing music and video seem to think we want to know precisely how long the whole thing is going to last, and how far through the experience we are. Yet for many people, an important element of music is its ability to take us out of a normal consciousness of time. A really good song or piece of music takes us far away from the clock that paces out our more mundane activities. As we listen, we dream - at our desk, at our sink or on the train - with no idea whether our mind has been roaming free for a few moments or much more.Music replaces clock time with musical time, a completely different way of guiding our thoughts and feelings through an experience with its own shape, its own build-up of tension and its own resolution. Our favourite songs seem timeless in more ways than one.So what does it do to us to be timed precisely through every second of a favourite song? More and more people download music as single tracks and listen to them on the computer through programs such as iTunes. It is hard not to be aware of that little black button relentlessly advancing towards the end of the line. It can produce a peculiar clash of sensations.On the one hand, you travel along the musical road offered by the song, far away from mechanical time. On the other, you glance at the "time remaining" display, and see the end implacably waiting like a brick wall you're about to hit. Sometimes, sinking into a lovely piece of music, you are carried away by its emotion and look up to see that those heartrending final lines are, in fact, not the doorway to a new universe, but merely five seconds from the end. It jars you like that peculiar effect at a railway station when you think your train has started to move, but suddenly realise it's the train at the next platform, and that yours is stationary.Why do we need to have our music counted out for us in seconds? Would our enjoyment of a dessert be enhanced by a gauge telling us when the last swallow will occur, and the taste finally be gone? Would we be transfixed by the climax of a play if we knew the curtain would drop in exactly three minutes? Are there any pleasurable experiences in life that can benefit from this obsessive countdown?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Hit theGoogle.co.ukpage now and you should see a Google Doodle, The Day of the Child, drawn by 11-year-old Lisa Wainaina from Hill House school in London. Lisa won a Doodle 4 Google competition for kids from schools close to the new Googleplex UK, which opened this afternoon. It's across the road from Victoria Station. Lisa's doodle was selected by Dennis Hwang, Google's webmaster and Google doodle designer, who was present at the event.Update: CNet now has an article,Schoolgirl wins Google doodle competition.
I want to be able to rip the audio from my CDs into wma/mp3/ogg and store it on my PC. At the same time, I want to catalogue the CDsin a database on my PC by downloading the album info from one of the online CD databases. I want the database to be searchable and editable, so I can add extra fields of my own. Everything I have found does one or the other not both. Ian NurserI don't know of one either, but you could have a look atMediaMonkey. It does the burning and the database bit, but it may not be flexible enough. There's a comment field, and the blurb says: "The serious music collector can also assign a broad range of more advanced attributes, such as composer, original year and album, and lyrics."Just from the dataase point of view,Music Collectorlooks a better bet. (What do other people use?)However, you should think seriously about whether you are ripping your CDs temporarily or permanently. A lot of people converted their CDs at too low a quality and perhaps to the wrong audio format, which is fine if you don't mind doing the job again. To repeat some advice I gave earlier:Although it is convenient to use WMP to create WMA files, and it does include a Lossless option, consider alternatives such as using EAC (Exact Audio Copy) to rip the CDs then converting to another format using Lame. There are several websites that will walk you through the process, such asRadifiedandThe Coaster Factory.Hydrogen Audiohas a good guide to setting up EAC and can also help with using EAC to create FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec) files: seehttp://wiki.hydrogenaudio.org/index.php?title=EAC_and_Flac.
A few days ago I found myself in Tring with time to kill (it's a long story). A small town in Hertfordshire, about 35 minutes out of London by rail, Tring nestles in a fold at the northern end of the Chiltern Hills. Tring: great to say, but not much to do. But I was prepared: I had my bicycle, and the forecast was for a crisp, clear autumnal day of rare perfection.Cyclists fall into two types: those who hate hills, and those who love them. No prizes for guessing which camp I'm in. Checking the map, I didn't need to see contour lines to work out where they were. To the east lay a series of Tring-like towns - Chesham, Amersham, High Wycombe; to the west, Wendover, Princes Risborough, Chinnor. Ancient names. This is an old part of England, settled and farmed for two millennia and more. Today it is commuter belt, but between these market towns turned dormitory suburbs runs a north-south axis of sparsely populated country, criss-crossed mainly by unmarked minor roads - old droveways no doubt.The Chilterns are not hugely dramatic hills. From the east, the escarpment is so gentle you hardly realise you are climbing - until suddenly you find yourself atop Bledlow Ridge, a high bluff with views all the way to Oxford. You'll know it if you've ever driven in to London on the M40, but believe me, that's hardly the best way to see it. The beauty of the Chilterns is that, unlike many of Britain's upland landscapes, they are well wooded. The low autumnal sun striking the yellows, reds and browns of the still turning leaves bathes the woodlands in shades of gold.When you watch a kestrel wheeling above you in the chill breeze as you pedal up one of these quiet lanes, you can have the illusion that all this has been put here just for you. In reality, refugees from the smoke have been coming here to ease their souls with its beauty and solitude for a century or more. There's something nourishing in that, too - to know you're sharing it, riding in their tracks.
Microsoft has launched a new global currency to replace $US dollars on the Microsoft Live service.Microsoft Pointsare "the new coin of the Xbox Live Marketplace realm. Microsoft Points is a new universal system that works across international borders and is even available if you don't have a credit card," says the site.Microsoft Points allows for micro-transactions so people can sell downloads for, say, 10 cents instread of $5. The long term plans include allowing Live users to sell things like game skins, and a way to use points to buy real-world objects. But I'm sure Microsoft will want to see whether users can hack or otherwise subvert the system before they try anything like that.TheLive Marketplaceis offering things like themes, pictures, trailers and demos.
Satirical games site UK Resistance haslaunched a typically daft campaignto bring sunshine, cute characters and upbeat J-pop back to videogames, thereby usurping the dour gangland settings of many contemporary western titles. "We want to stun enemies with BOUNCE ATTACKS, not shoot them in unrealistic and shoddy drive-bys!" proclaims the site. Later, there's a list of game design suggestions for developers and it's even possible to download a selection of hastily knocked together banners to show your support for the cause.I agree with UK:R about the proliferation of gangster adventures (I've written something about them for the Technology section of the Guardian this thursday). But I'm not sure about the large scale re-adoption of Sega game design aesthetics from 1986-1996 (I'm notsureabout it, but it does sound tempting). Is this obsession with urban squalor the price we have to pay for 'photo-realistic visuals', free-roaming environments and advanced physics?Or is UK:R being a bit melodramatic? I mean, it's quite easy to ignore the pimps and hookers when we've gotOkamiandShadow of Colossus?
Celebrity Mapsis pretty simple: it just uses Google Maps and satellite imagery to plot the addresses of a range of celebs from Paula Abdul to Billy Zane. But it's probably not very good for gawking. Multiple addresses, shared addresses and some of the images suggests that quite a few are more likely the addresses of workplaces, managers, agents etc, rather than private hideaways.In fact, not all the celebs are still alive: the map includes three addresses for Dudley Moore, for example, and two for Bob Hope.Most of the celebs are movie stars or popular musicians (eg Mick Jagger), but Bill Gates makes an appearance between Teri Garr and Crystal Gayle. However, the link is to the Microsoft campus, not the lakeside mansion where he actually lives.
Demos of NBA Live? Audioslave music videos? Erm,Xbox Live Marketplacethan. Whaddya reckon? Yesterday's announcement - I was too busy playing the frustratingly tough Pro Evo 5 on PSP (damn those shoulder buttons) to blog - that 400 pieces of "downloadable content" will be available when the 360 launches. The good news is that the demos, which include Kameo and King Kong, are free. This is great for you and me although Future Publishing won't be too chuffed considering the importance of playable demos for their official 360 mag.More interesting is the premium content - i.e. stuff you need to fork out for - which includes things like the casual Live Arcade titles (think retro and puzzle stuff) and game themes. A card with 2100 points costs 25 euros/17.50 UKP - games range from the 400 point range (i.e. about 5 euros/3 quid). Examples include Joust (400 points), Smash TV (400 points), Zuma (800 points) and the Quake 4 theme (150 points). I can't see the attraction of a theme, but the games seem relatively good value. It still feels like a gimmick to me, a way for MS to claim they are "widening the gaming market". Still, if it's easy to use, it may work. You tempted by the Live Marketplace then?
ModelBMW 3 Series Touring 320d SEPrice&pound;25,905Top speed139mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.6 secondsConsumption47.9mpg (combined)Emissions158g/km (road tax band D)At the wheelAntony Worrall ThompsonThey'd rather walkJamie OliverOn the stereoJames BluntEn route forBurfordLet's be clear: the car under consideration here is the new BMW 3 Series Touring. Which is to say, we are considering the new Touring version of the BMW 3 Series saloon. Now, occasionally in the words that follow, we may find ourselves referring to this car as "an estate". For instance, we may write: "This new 3 Series certainly handles well for an estate." Or: "So little did the new 3 Series act like a cement-mixer going into corners, I was almost able to forget that I was in an estate." But this use of the term "estate" will be a mistake, brought about by regrettable habitual reflexes for which we apologise unreservedly in advance. This car is not an estate; it is a BMW 3 Series Touring.BMW's careful avoidance of the "E" word could, at a glance, look like snobbery. Yet Audi have the same instinct, preferring to use the word "Avant" for any car in their range that is unusually swollen in the boot region, and one can see why. When you apply the word "estate" to another word ("car", say, or "agent"), it tends to have a disheartening effect. Indeed, leading psychologists argue that no phrase in the English language is more apt to sink the spirits than "estate car", unless it's the phrases "critical illness policy", "arts coverage" and "Manchester United bounce back"."Touring", on the other hand, taps effortlessly into a broad and bright range of pulse-quickening associations. It evokes crisp, minty-breathed mornings in the Alps and journeys of intellectual discovery through Italy, perhaps in the company of Boswell, or, preferably, someone still alive. Touring is also something rock bands do. Contrast the relative effects of the following two sentences. Sentence one: "I'll come by in the morning in the estate." Sentence two: "I'll pick you up at 9 o'clock in the Tourer." Sentence two is an invitation to life's dance. Sentence one is an invitation to join a funeral procession.Therefore, owners of this smart, easily driven and competitively priced Tourer can, if they wish, draw on year-round, 24-hour access to a completely different mindset from that on offer to drivers of other mere estates. They may share the traditional estate owner's expression of resignation in the face of the world's burden. It may look as if family life has taken them inadvertently into the haulage business. But they are having more fun than that. They are touring.So who are these lucky, mentally released BMW owners likely to be? BMW have some very clear ideas on this. If the sight of a 3 Series Touring sends a tingle across your fingertips, then research apparently indicates that you are most likely between 36 and 55. Moreover, there is an 80% chance that you are a man, or, at the very least, thinking about becoming one. And you will be educated "to a high level", even while listing, as your favourite activities, golf and rugby (though not while driving, of course). It's almost certain, too, that you will be, in the words of BMW, "part of a family household likely to contain children". Which is nicely put - like a warning about nut traces.BMW modestly don't go on to say as much, but I think it's also likely that you will be someone who likes their estate car to come in the nicest possible disguise. This one is set up to drive like a whippy saloon (push-button start, aristocratic power, firm steering) and to look like a whippy sports car. All estates are, to a greater or lesser extent, doing battle with the genre's unavoidable hereditary link to the hearse. Many are the passengers who cannot slip into the back seat of, say, a Mercedes E Class without experiencing forceful presentiments of the last journey of them all.But the BMW 3 Series is working really hard to lose the coffin-y overtones in a less morbid arrangement of lines and swells. It's a compact estate, which helps (its rivals for custom are going to be trim ships such as the A4 Avant and the Jaguar X-type estate, rather than, say, the ocean-going Volvo V70). Its roof arcs sweetly, exactly the way a Volvo's doesn't. Its bonnet has a pronounced bulge or "power dome" and a surprising touch of menace about it. The shape tilts the car's centre of gravity towards the back-end, reminding you, in case you forget, that it's a rear-wheel drive.No mere estate could ever look so eager and shark-like. But, unlike a shark, it does the boring, practical things as well. People complained about leg room in the back of the out-going model, so BMW have expanded it slightly. The back door rises to two metres, meaning that everyone except Peter Crouch can walk under it without cracking their foreheads. The car also contains what must be the world's first self-raising load cover. When you pop the separately opening rear window, the canvas shroud that was previously hiding your Wellington boots and your anorak from the gaze of potentially covetous passersby pings back of its own volition. Unimproveably, BMW themselves relate this technology to Ronnie Barker's cash till in Open All Hours.All this, then, and the right not call it an estate: they spoil us.
Last week gamesblog coveredPersuasive Games' latest releaseAirport Insecurity, "a game about inconvenience and the tradeoffs between security and rights in American airports". I grabbed Ian Bogost, one half of the company (and one-half of the blogwatercoolergames) to explain exactly what he means by "serious games".What role does the player play in your games (figuratively, of course)?How do you reconcile putting forward such an obvious political slant in your games?To be honest, I'm not sure what there is to reconcile. There is a long tradition of art as social commentary and I see my work — and videogames in general — as another line in that tradition. There's an unfortunate, implicit assumption that games are "apolitical," despite the very political issues that games like Grand Theft Auto, Deus Ex, Fable, Shadow of the Colossus, and others raise. I'm just drawing explicit attention to games as political speech in the hopes of evolving the medium.How is it possible to make a game without an ideology?It's not possible. All games are biased. Ted Nelson made this observation as early as the mid-70s, as did Chris Crawford. Games represent part of how things work in the world, and there is no way to escape a worldview when one is designing a game. Incidentally, this goes for so-called "scientific simulations" too... they all assume something about the world, and that's a characteristic of ideology. For a few years now I've been using examples from "first responder" training for terrorist threats. All these simulations make implicit assumptions about the value of life, the unquestioned place of America in the world, and other issues worth challenging.Do the powers that be (those that give you pay checks) view what you make for them as games or as something different?We do both commissioned games and non-commissioned (independent) games. When we do get a commission, we're very insistent about the medium. We make games, not "interactive experiences" or some watered-down euphemism that might make the funders more comfortable. It is absolutely crucial that we expand the notion of "videogames" so that it means more than three genres of fantasy violence. I take this task very seriously and I try to do my part, however small it might be.How far do you think you can push the persuasive message (from whatever ideological starting point) before someone steps in and stops it?In the USA today, videogames have certainly been vilified, by a few high-profile political figures in particular. When we release games that are so explicitly about political issues, we always expect to see some pushback. I think we've actually experienced less than we expected. I think that the medium is still not taken as seriously as we'd like to think it is, even despite the negative attention from Hillary Clinton and Joe Lieberman and others. We need more explicit political speech in games to shake things up. We need to convince the world that this is a real medium, not merely a child's plaything.What do you think other games teach players? (as food for thought, how about The Sims, GTA: Vice City, Madden and Burnout: Revenge)This question traces a broader issue in games today: we need more, and better, game criticism. I'm not talking about better journalism, although that would help too. I mean criticism like we have literary criticism and art criticism and film criticism. Work that contextualizes games in the broader sweep of human culture. I try to do this in my new book; I read The Sims alongside Baudelaire and Charles Bukowski and Grand Theft Auto alongside Madame Bovary. For example, one thing The Sims (and here I'm thinking of Hot Date especially) draws attention to is the logic of courtship. We may not realize it, but the idea of meeting a potential mate in an urban, public space is one with a 150 year history. So, I think one thing The Sims is teaching us is to interrogate and possibly question our received notions of the modern chance encounter. In The Sims, we're forced to work within the constraints of modern, mechanized courtship, and being immersed inside that constraint really challenges the player to think about their comfort with it. What does it mean to have a "meaningful" relationship today? This is just one simple example, but the opportunities to read games more closely is almost unlimited.Where do you think the advertisers are going with their product placement in games?Advertisers are primarily interested in creating new media buying channels that look like traditional media channels — that means finding ways to sell ad "units" inside games. I think this is going to be disastrous for games and also detrimental for advertisers. But the advertisers persist, and we can expect to see more branded walls and objects in games. I think we'll also see more of those forgettable branded games that have been so popular over the last 5-7 years; they're usually clones of popular puzzle games with foodstuffs or brand symbols replacing the playing pieces. This is unfortunate too, because games have a great power to represent the way products and services work, and how consumers can interact with them intelligently. I'm trying my best to beat that drum, but it's a hard sell.
"Seems like the rumors were true,Google Basehas launched this morning an is now accepting content. At first glance, Google Base may not be the 'eBay Killer' everyone was beefing it up to be, but it will get there soon," saysSearch Engine Journal."The Google Blog has also officially announced the launch of Google Base, along with testimonials from sites which has a chance to test it. 'Google Base enables content owners to easily make their information searchable online. Anyone, from large companies to website owners and individuals, can use it to submit their content in the form of data items. We'll host the items and make them searchable for free'."The big US publications were prebriefed, so there are conditional reports like the one inThe New York Times: "On Tuesday evening, Google, the dominant Web search site, was planning to introduce a service called Base, which it said was intended to permit Internet users to upload files and other information to Google's servers and make them searchable by category" etc.You can also read theGoogle Blog post.
Last week,Wiredreported that the clever folks behind Nintendogs might be trying their dab hands in the digital kitchen. As a foodie myself, I've always been partial to a bit of virtual ingredient swapping, so to inspire their wok-related shenanigans, I've compiled a list of games that feature epicurean-related elements:Burger TimeThe greatest arcade game in the world. I don't care what you say about Chuckie Egg or Smash TV, running away from hard boiled eggs and hot dogs, while tramping over buns, lettuce, tomato and beef patties to form the most scrumptious burger was my introduction to the world computer games. Fiendishly difficult, but most amusing.Pizza Tycoon, Pizza Connection 2, Fast Food Tycoon, Pizza Syndicate, Restaurant EmpireI remember reviewing Pizza Syndicate for Bits, covered head to foot with tomato sauce and pizza dough. As I recall, I wasn't much of a fan of this game, one of the glut of business simulations that attempted to capture the imagination after SimCity revolutionised the personal computer, but any excuse to play with food is a good one.The Sims OnlineContinuing the pizza theme, I spent many a moon "making" pizza in this online world with three other people. As a minigame, it was one of the more interesting ways to earn skill points, and to chat with folks while wiling away the time, thinking about real pizza.GTA: Vice CityIt's no surprise that computer geeks are often associated with pizza takeaways. It is the food that features most often in these games. Even in the Grand Theft Auto series, pies make an appearance, with a pizza delivery minigame thrown in for a bit of above-the-board money making.Food ForceThe UN got in on the videogame act earlier this year with the release of a free game aimed to teach players about the politics and challenges behind the World Food Programme. While certainly educational, it lacks the dynamics and challenge of more consumer-driven game products. That's not really the point though. In any event, it has the word food in the title, so it's included in this list.Any others?
"Today at the IT Forum in Barcelona, the latest version of Windows Desktop Search (WDS) and MSN Search Toolbar, both enabled for easy enterprise deployment, will say "Hola!" to the world!," says theMSN Search team's blog."With this new release, enterprise IT departments can easily and securely deploy, customize and manage Windows Desktop Search across their entire PC network (both Windows XP and Widnows 2000 SP4+). Not only is WDS free to deploy with your Windows License, it also provides flexible customization settings for IT departments, extensibility to search over proprietary or unique types of files and is supported in 15 languages, with more to coming soon!"Comment:Gotta love that Widnows 2000 SP4+ typo. Must use it myself.... Meanwhile, eWeek has the storyhere.
"The plunging cost of computing power is both an opportunity and a challenge to Microsoft, which on Tuesday plans to unveil its first entry into the market for high-performance scientific and technical computing. The company's Windows Computer Cluster Server 2003 software is scheduled to become available in the first half of next year and is intended to give scientists and engineers a simple way to gain high-performance computing from their existing Microsoft desktop computersm," reportsThe New York Times."Microsoft is planning a significant marketing push into the field with a keynote speech by Bill Gates, the company's co-founder and chairman, on Tuesday at the annual supercomputing trade show taking place this week in Seattle."Best headline with this story: "Hi, I'm Clippy, your supercomputing assistant; you look like you're trying to model complex atmospheric phenomena" over at theSiliconValley.com blog.
I have a rather elderly HP Omni book XE running Windows 95. I am only using it for email and a small amount of web surfing, and I have been using Tiscali's payg dial-up service. Can you recommend a dial-up ISP? Claire JacksonI would have thought a pay-as-you-go option would be the best option, and usually I suggest BT Click, which doesn't require an ID or password. In the UK, it costs 4p per minute daytime, 1.5p per minute weekday evenings and 1p per minute weekends,with a minimum call charge of 5p. This kind of service is very useful for travellers, who would do well to bookmarkhttp://www.freedomlist.comHowever, the cost soon builds up, especially with daytime use at BT Click's £2.40 an hour, so it can soon become worth signing up with an ISP. The problem is, as you know, which?ISP Review lists itsTop 10in various categories according to reader reviews, andFireFlyis currently top for dial-up.I was going to suggesthttp://www.freedom2surf.net/dialup/but it's just been bought by Pipex. Any other ideas?
"Sony BMG Music Entertainment said Monday it will pull some of its most popular CDs from stores in response to backlash over copy-protection software on the discs. Sony also said it will offer exchanges for consumers who purchased the discs, which contain hidden files that leave them vulnerable to computer viruses when played on a PC," reportsUSA Today.;"Sony BMG deeply regrets any inconvenience to our customers and remains committed to providing an enjoyable and safe music experience," the company said. Sony says more than 20 titles have been released with the XCP copy-protection software, and of those CDs, over 4 million have been manufactured, and 2.1 million sold.Comment: Yay! And it all took off as a result ofone blog postat SysInternals,which was picked up here and other places.
You may have noticed that over on the Technology Blog, Jack Schofield has been running a survey to discover theTop 20 geek books of all time. This got me thinking about videogame books, and whether there were enough bona fide classics to compile a similar list. I reckon there are - as long as you stay well clear ofgame-based novelswhich are almost exclusively a disastrous waste of paper, and those academic tomes about 'digital play in the post-modern virtual space'. With these provisos in mind, here is my essential videogame reading list. Feel free to add your own suggestions - I need some ideas for Christmas presents...Masters of Doom - David KushnerBegins with a young John Romero getting his faced smashed into an Asteroids cabinet and amazingly goes uphill from there, detailing the irresistible rise of Id software. The writing is slapdash at times, but like one of those strangely watchable 'true story' TV movies, the content is usually compelling enough to excuse the delivery.Supercade: A Visual History of the Videogame Age 1971-1984 - Van BurnhamVideogaming's original and best coffee table book is a long, lascivious leer at the finest arcade cabinets of the golden era. Over 400 pages of swooning retro love.Game Over - David SheffSheff's detailed but accessible romp through the history of Nintendo was required reading when I joined Edge Magazine back in 1995 and has been updated since to give it more contemporary relevance. It's hugely biased toward an American audience, but provides some really interesting human insights into the workings of a videogame giant.Trigger Happy: The Inner Life of Videogames - Steven PooleThis is a very idiosyncratic look at videogaming from the regular Guardian contributor, combining history, philosophy and cultural analysis into one reasonably short and snappy polemic. At times it reads a bit like an abandoned PhD thesis, but Poole always manages to combine academic intentions with readability. And it's fun to disagree with books.Electronic Plastic - Jaro GielensThis beautifully illustrated tribute to the golden era of handheld videogames is like porn for Game &amp; Watch fanatics. Hundreds of rare machines, lovingly collected by Dutch obsessive Gielens, and displayed in all their garish plastic finery. It was out of print for a while, but is now back in the shops. You can find out more at the author's equally lovelywebsite.Phoenix: The Fall &amp; Rise of Videogames - Leonard HermanAs an exhaustive history of videogames I prefer this to Steven Kent's more obviously approachable Ultimate History of Videogames. It's really just a very dense chronology dealing in facts and dates rather than analysis. Anyone interested in how the industry got to where it is today should probably own this book - or at least repeatedly borrow it from an ex-editor of Edge Magazine like I do.Everything Bad Is Good for You - Steven JohnsonIn this much-needed antidote to the generally held 'videogames are evil' consensus, Johnson discusses the positive elements of digital entertainment that even gamers probably haven't thought about. It's accessible and funny, too.Lucky Wander Boy - D. B. Weiss or The Beach - Alex GarlandThrown in together, two novels that make non-judgemental use of characters obsessed with videogames. The former is not a brilliant read, but it is filled with fun gaming references. The latter is, of course, a gap year traveler essential where the lead character's videogame addiction is alluded to matter-of-factly, like smoking or drinking. This really struck me when I first read it. Although I was a stereotypical studenty traveler at the time.
Very nice, of course ... but what's the point?There are some Japanese Xbox 360 adshere.
"Today we released theShoposphereand Pick Lists beta, plus enhancements to our core shopping search capabilities, which we hope you'll try out during your holiday gift-giving spree," saysYahoo's blog."The Shoposphere and Pick Lists are examples of social commerce. We believe the community of shoppers is one of the best sources for product information and advice. The Shoposphere is a place to discover interesting and cool products thematically arranged into Pick Lists by other shoppers. It's always changing. It includes new lists in a "product stream" and highest rated lists which are a fun way to explore new products and trends. The Shoposphere will continue to evolve as a hub for other types of user-generated content."There's also a brief look onTechCrunch.
Anyone browsing online for albums by, let's say, the Mars Volta will find them on legal downloading sites that have sprung up since the music business started harnessing the internet. But should you want to offset the Texas prog-rockers' ramblings with John Lennon's caustic brevity, you wouldn't have been able to - until this month. Surprisingly, Lennon's solo work has only just been made available digitally. A greatest hits set, Working Class Hero, is now online, to be followed next month by his eight solo studio albums. His belated internet presence is at the behest of Yoko Ono, who says: "New technology is something he always embraced."If he did, his choices back then would have boiled down to eight-track versus cassette tapes. His label, EMI, is becoming aware that many people have never bought music on the net, and that these people are likely to be over 30 and richer than the teenagers who comprise the bulk of online customers.The Lennon catalogue is an incentive to the can't-download, won't-download brigade to test the digital waters. It's in the industry's interests, obviously, to tempt them: once they discover the relative ease of internet buying, they'll be clicking away willy-nilly, spending more than teenagers can afford to. At least, that's what the industry hopes. But it will have to overcome some pretty solid resistance. Many music fans - not just middle-aged Beatles nuts - just don't want to play ball. Despite the popularity of downloading, which accounts for half of all singles sales, most of it is done by teenagers who have never known a world without the internet. Grown-ups, including the coveted "50-quid bloke" (free-spending thirty- and fortysomething men) still buy CDs in shops.For some, the lingering image of cyber-lawlessness from the days when downloading was illegal could be offputting. Others feel that their tastes aren't catered for: they won't be tempted by the Mars Volta and their indie ilk if what they really want is the Beatles, Led Zeppelin or AC/DC (none of whom, for licensing reasons, is available online). Tom Linklater, the head of digital development at HMV, agrees that "content" can be a problem. "It's easy for labels to make chart music available, but they're slower at working through their back catalogues. Genres like folk are full of acts that are signed to tiny labels that are only getting used to CD, let alone downloading. If you can't get the Beatles &#91;the holy grail for online music suppliers&#93; digitally, there will always be a bit of doubt as to its place as a credible format."I'd bet, though, that most refuseniks - that was me, until a couple of days ago - are simply daunted by downloading. How do you do it? Once you've done it, how do you listen to it? iPod? What iPod? There's anecdotal evidence that plenty of the dinky little players sit unused in cupboards, after their owners despaired of wading through the instructions.The 16-year-olds downloading Green Day and Son of Dork don't have this problem, of course. They log on to iTunes, the biggest online music store, and sail through obstacles such as "iTunes can play both MP3 and AAC files and can automatically make AAC versions of unprotected WMA files". The rest of us, who've learned about technology piecemeal, are beset by ignorance and option paralysis. I finally had a go the other day, and the sense of accomplishment, after much flailing, was considerable. I'm ahead of the singer of the Others, a rising east London band with an active online fan network, who told me he's never bought music from the internet. Too confusing, he complains. That should speak volumes to the people who design sites such as iTunes, if they want to rope in people with money.&#183;Caroline Sullivan is a Guardian music criticcarolinesullivan1000@hotmail.com
Update: I contacted Sony to dig up the truth on the nasty rumours contained herein. They are unfounded, as confirmed by Jennie Kong, UK PR Manager at SCEE. From Jennie:I would like to clarify that this is false speculation and that PlayStation 3 software will not be copy protected to a single machine but will be playable on any PlayStation 3 console.There you have it.The old post:Rumoursare afoot that Sony's new PlayStation 3 tech will write code to game discs that irrevocably binds that disc to that machine, thus eradicating the second-hand sales market.FromThe Inquirer:The technology would allow an authentication code to be read and then rendered unreadable, making the software unplayable on any machine but the one which first read it.There are those who would argue that this is a good thing (Wonderlandhas great coverage of Epic's anti-rental Mark Rein). From gamesblog's perspecive, immediately a few things come to mind that makes this an incredibly dumb business idea (and this goes beyond what their End of User License Agreement stipulates - beautifully translatedherefor their music collection):1. you can't sell a game after you've played it 2. you can't buy or play any second-hand gamesBy taking away that market, it's going to make their console less attractive to Joe and Jane Punter, who may buy a Xbox 360 or Revolution instead.
As a side-order to Greg's post about the Xbox 360 launch titles, you may be interested to view Microsoft'slist of Xbox games that will run on the new machine. There are over 200 on there and the company promises that more will be converted as the weeks go on. As you may already be aware, key titles are also going to be updated so that they're fully compatible with HD displays - the standard bearers being Halo and Halo 2 (gohereto learn about the ins and outs of their conversion).Already, members of the Xbox community are grumbling about the selection with Planetxbox360.com, posting analternative listof titles that aren't currently supported by the emulator. For example, if you were hoping to play any of your old Burnout, Dynasty Warriors or Unreal titles on 360 you'll currently be disappointed. In stark contrast, however, fans of Toxic Grind, Shamu's Deep Sea Adventures and the mighty Barbie Horse Adventures: Wild Horse Rescue will be thrilled to discover that these titleshavebeen targetted for emulation.
An anonymous informant (otherwise known as the MySpace PR) is pluggingMadonna's Official MySpace music pagewith the new album out tomorrow. "MySpace.com is hosting Madonna's exclusive, personal audio confessions, streaming only on her MySpace Music profile," says the PR. She's podcasting, sort of.I'm impressed that, on MySpace, "Madonna has 28,266 friends." I wonder if she remembers all their birthdays?But it's not going to tempt me away frommy favourite female artist, who writes her own journal and takes some pretty good pictures, too.
Although I've already posted the results, another 22 people have voted (here) since then, bringing the current total to 154. When I get a moment or 17, I'll have a look to see whether there have been any significant changes in the rankings. In the meantime, I note, a few comments are still being added to previous posts. These are, roughly:What are the top 20 geek novelson October 26 (43 comments)Top 20 geek novels -- now you can voteon November 6 (7 comments)Top 20 geek novels -- the resultson November 9 (24 comments)All of these have now disappeared from the front page, of course.Many comments are basically "why wasn't xxx included?" Answer: they might well have been, if they'd been suggested earlier. Otherwise I did try to avoid it becoming a science fiction list by including some not-really-SF books, and failed. But it was fun, so my thanks to all those who took part.
"Google plans to introduce free analytical tools for online publishers and marketers today, a move that would help the company's clients get a better sense of Web site traffic patterns and advertising campaigns," reportsThe New York Times"Online analytic tools help publishers determine how often people have viewed certain pages and clicked on certain links within those pages. The free services will be integrated into Google's lucrative AdWords program, in which marketers for, say, wrenches, pay to have their ads appear near search results whenever online users search for 'automotive tools.' Google Analytics will crunch numbers on behalf of users, telling them how often visitors who saw an ad associated with "automotive tools" clicked on the ad, versus those who searched for 'hardware stores'.".Comment:As the NYT story says,the new serviceworks with ads on any site, eg Yahoo, and is based on Urchin's analytics program. Google bought the company for an estimated $30 million, and the Urchin On Demand service that could have cost you $199 or more per month is now free. There's also aGoogle press release.
Joe Trippi likes to open his lectures with a question. "How many mociologists are there in the audience?" No one raises a hand. He then asks, "How many of you have got mobile phones?" Every hand goes up. "You're all mociologists," Trippi says. "You just don't know the word yet - just like you didn't know the word 'blog' five years ago."Mociology refers to how mobile and wireless technology has changed the way we do things: downloading music on to a mobile phone, for example, or getting the football scores texted through on a Saturday afternoon. To Trippi, however, its potential lies in how it can be used for political purposes - just as he saw and exploited the possibilities of blogs for political campaigning while running Howard Dean's unsuccessful bid for the 2004 Democratic presidential nomination.Blogging and mociology, Trippi is convinced, will revolutionise politics. "When I first started the Dean campaign there were something like 4,000 blogs worldwide," he claims. "There are now 20m and growing. It's an entirely new development - the arrival of the two-way printing press. We have had the one-way press around for centuries, but when you have a two-way press it means that people can actually have a conversation with each other on equal terms. Mobile technology, blogging technology, gives people the ability to connect with each other from the bottom up. It'll do for 21st-century politics what print did for the 18th."Trippi is not a techno-geek who came late to politics. He's worked on presidential campaigns for a quarter of a century, on and off, advising, among others, Edward Kennedy, Walter Mondale, Gary Hart and Richard Gephardt. He learned the techno side of things working in Silicon Valley in the 1990s.As Dean's campaign manager, Trippi ordered the creation of a campaign blog, which he used to communicate directly with supporters. He set up a "Dean in 2004" group on the Meetup Inc website for people with common interests, which managed on one day - November 4 2003 - to mobilise 138,000 volunteers to turn up at 820 locations to campaign for the candidate. And realising that Dean, from a base as governor of Vermont, would never be able to raise the same sums from the accepted routes as Washington insiders, he used the web to ask for donations. The result was a rush of cash that astonished observers.So why, given Trippi's faith in the mobilising power of new technology, is the former Governor Dean not the current President Dean? "2004 was the birthing stage. Think of TV in the 1940s, when there were only a handful of black-and-white sets in the States - they didn't impact on politics. But they would. The Dean campaign was just the baby steps of this bottom-up empowerment. And if this is its power in the very early stages, you can imagine what changes are coming." That shift in emphasis from broadcast to broadband has given Trippi's latest book its title: The Revolution Will Not Be Televised.The impact made by Dean's embrace of the web was compared to that of the televised presidential debates between Nixon and Kennedy in 1960. But, crucial as the debates were then, the political system has absorbed and largely neutralised their effect. Won't the same thing happen to the "revolution" once the system comes to terms with it?"No. The people had no power over TV. The power was with the network, the advertiser, or the politician with his political machine behind him. This new technology puts power in the hands of the average citizen. It's a qualitative difference, totally different from all previous democracies. In the Dean campaign, people realised, 'Wow! We can really connect and change the established way of doing things.' And they did. We began with 432 people nationwide. That grew to 650,000 and we raised more money than any other candidate in history. And it's not just presidential elections. Look at global warming. Is it going to be solved because the leaders do something? Or because hundreds of millions of people do something?"There is, Trippi says, no inherent reason for mociology to favour liberal causes - "the technology doesn't know or care what ideology is using it" - but, in practice, it has not yet become a tool for the right. "I think the one problem the right has on the internet and blogging is that they tend to be so disciplined about command and control," he suggests. "That's worked very well for them up to now. But it doesn't, and it won't, work for them on the net. Conservatives tend to use the net as a data communications vehicle. For them, it's a messaging machine. The Democrats - the progressives - are much better at growing big connected communities."What does that mean for the next presidential election, in 2008? "I think there's a good chance that a third person - a third party if you will - is going to emerge, with the power of blog behind them. It has to be from outside. The Democratic party crushed Dean from within. The party will never change from within. In the past you couldn't leave the party. Where were you going to get the money for an effective campaign? Howard Dean showed how - from bottom-up subscriptions of a few bucks. That says to me that very soon, somebody is going to step out of the two-party apparatus. I'm not talking about someone mega-rich such as Ross Perot. I'm talking about a credible party leader who steps out and says, 'You know, we don't need the traditional two parties any more.'"So the age of the political machine is over? "Yes. The new machinery is in the hands of the people and it's blogging and it's mobile phones. There are those who say you can't change a political system that's as busted as ours. There are others who are realising that, because of blogs and the other new technologies, you can make a change. Democracy is in a lot of hurt right now and the only thing that's going to save it is getting people back into the process. These technologies are coming online just in the nick of time because this world is in a mess of trouble and it's not going to get solved unless we all connect with each other and start to work in common cause."&#183;The Revolution Will Not Be Televised: Democracy, the Internet, and the Overthrow of Everything by Joe Trippi is published by ReganBooks
Just announced - launch day titles for Xbox 360 (available on or before the console launch on 2 December, so if you want to stare at a PDZero box before you can play, you should be able to)· Amped 3 (2K Sports)· Call of Duty 2 (Activision)· Condemned: Criminal Origins (SEGA)· FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup (Electronic Arts)· GUN (Activision)· Kameo: Elements of Power (Microsoft Game Studios)· Perfect Dark Zero (Microsoft Game Studios)· Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie(Ubisoft)· Madden NFL 06 (Electronic Arts)· NBA Live 06 (Electronic Arts)· Need for Speed: Most Wanted (Electronic Arts)· Project Gotham Racing 3 (Microsoft Game Studios)· Quake 4 (Activision, id software and Raven Software Corp.)· Tiger Woods PGA TOUR 06(Electronic Arts)· Tony Hawk's American Wasteland (Activision)
