Swiftkey is making its keyboard app available on a freemium basis following an influx of venture capital.The British-developed keyboard replacement, which is currently the best-selling paid app on Android, is dropping its $3.99 price tag entirely. Instead, the firm&apos;s revenue will come from selling &quot;themes&quot; to users.SwiftKey says that the motivation for the change is to expand its userbase, particularly in developing economies where the practice of paying for apps is hindered by poor payment infrastructure. The app is currently on more than 200m devices, but that&apos;s not enough for the firm.&quot;We have made the decision to go free to better enable everyone, everywhere, to use SwiftKey’s market-leading technology without payment being a barrier,&quot; said the company&apos;s co-founder and CEO Jon Reynolds. &quot;We&apos;re focused not only on reaching more users with our powerful technology, but on building great content and features to engage them.&quot;SwiftKey&apos;s flagship product is areplacement keyboard for Android phones, which improves on the stock keyboard by offering features such as predictive texting, learning a user&apos;s tone of voice, and offering the ability to type by simply swiping through letters. Introduced in Wednesday&apos;s software update with the freemium change is a new feature: predictive emoji.To sweeten the deal for existing users who may feel sore at having paid $3.99 for something which is now free, the firm is offering a $4.99 pack of ten themes free of charge.The switch to freemium was decided long before Apple&apos;s WWDC event on 2 June, when the Cupertino, CA firmannounced that it would be letting users replace the default keyboard on iOS. SwiftKey was as surprised by that change as everyone else – competitors Swype had be tapped up to develop the demo shown off on stage – but the team already has one iOS product on sale, SwiftKey Note.&quot;Are we going to build SwiftKey Keyboard for iOS8? Of course we are. We’ve already started,&quot; the founders told the Guardian in a statement. &quot;We’re delighted Apple has decided to embrace the importance of opening its platform to third party keyboards… Our technology features on more than 200 million devices to date and we can’t wait to reach more.&quot;Ben Medlock, chief technology officer and co-founder of the firm, said the adage &quot;if you aren&apos;t paying for it, you&apos;re not the customer, you&apos;re the product&quot; won&apos;t apply in this situation. &quot;We need to work hard to make sure that users understand why we&apos;re doing this, and to understand that it really is about how to get our technology out to the largest number of people,&quot; he told the Guardian.&quot;We rely on the fact that people understand what we&apos;re about,&quot; he added.Medlock didn&apos;t rule out other revenue sources besides selling themes in the future, saying &quot;we&apos;re excited to see what the users call for,&quot; but that the team would be focusing on customisation of the look.•Cara Ellison: my year of video game sex
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAlarm bells ring for Internet of Things after smart TV hack &gt;&gt; SC Magazine UKYossef Oren and Angelos Keromytis from the Network Security Lab at Columbia University have found that the so-called Smart TV could be hacked using a cheap antenna and broadcast messages, and relies on an insecurity in the Hybrid Broadcast-Broadband Television Standard (HbbTV), which now features on millions of internet-connected TVs after being introduced two years ago.HbbTV has been adopted by more than 90% of TV set producers, according to research outfit GFK, and allows the approximate 60 broadcasters using the standard in Europe to add interactive HTML content to DVB cable, satellite or terrestrial signals. This means that viewers can use their favourite web services via TV apps, and allows advertisers to serve up relevant ads.But writing in a newresearch paperpublished this week, Oren and Keromytis have detailed that the standard is vulnerable to a "large-scale exploitation technique" that is "remarkably difficult to detect". It is low entry too – as a budget of just $270 would be enough to target around 20,000 devices.How big is smartphone platform churn? &gt;&gt; TwitterCarl Howe of Yankee Group with data from a March 2014 survey in the US, showing 14% of Android users intended to get an iPhone next, while 7% of iPhone users planned to get an Android phone.Android has a larger user base, so the 14% figure will be a larger absolute number. The figures for BlackBerry and Windows Phone loyalty are telling.Note that this doesn't include featurephone users - who are increasing the total pool of smartphone users by about 1m per month in the US.For Apple, marketing is a whole new game &gt;&gt; Advertising AgeApparently it's looking to hire a thousand staff for an internal agency (certainly puts Mad Men to shame). But:in what once would have been seen as a sacrilegious breach of the Apple-Media Arts Lab bond, it's been inviting some of the ad industry's top shops to pitch on major projects.But Apple's grand ambitions so far appear to be just that. The company that only a decade ago was the creative standard is finding a frosty reception in some creative corners. "I don't feel that energy from Apple," said one top agency exec who was approached for a post. "The revolution has come and gone, and I'm not sure a job at Apple would be a creative opportunity. If I were going to go brand-side, there are a lot more interesting companies I'd rather work for, like Coke or Pepsi."As Jay Yarowput it, it's like Steve Jobs's proposition to John Sculley - "would you rather change the world, or just sell sugar water?" Except now the answer is "sell sugar water."China's ZTE taking staff from BlackBerry, Motorola Mobility &gt;&gt; WSJAmid uncertainties surrounding the prospects for BlackBerry and Motorola Mobility — the cellphone maker that Google is in the process of selling to China's Lenovo Group  — over the past year, ZTE has found rare opportunities to cherry-pick talent from those established global competitors.Inside ZTE's human resources department, a special team is tasked with recruiting talent from BlackBerry. While the team has so far recruited fewer than 20 people, it plans to hire more, a person familiar with the situation said. Most of the new hires from BlackBerry, which include senior engineers, are currently based in Canada, but they may later move to the U.S. or China to play greater roles for ZTE, the person added."We hope the talent from BlackBerry can enhance our product security and design capability," said Adam Zeng, who became the head of ZTE's mobile device business in JanuaryWhy are people leaving Motorola to join ZTE rather than Lenovo?Acer CEO weighs in on smartwatches at Computex 2014 &gt;&gt; Androidheadlines.comAcer's CEO Jason Chen understands that smartwatches are the future. The company announced a new smartwatch/fitness band at Computex in Taiwan on Monday. The Liquid Leap aims to handle the fitness tracker piece by tracking your steps, distance, how many calories you burn and your sleep patterns. The Leap does some smartwatch things too, by sending and receiving texts and email messages. The device only works with Acer's Liquid Jade smartphone for now, although further Android and iOS availability is coming soon.Chen says that he doesn't know how the Liquid Leap is going to stand out from the crowded smartwatch market, though. "We believe over time the market will prove itself," he said in an interview with Engadget. "What we have to do is get the product [out] and see how it goes.Acer's 2014 revenues to the end of April are down 33% year-on-year and its operating margin is 1%. Might need better than "see how it goes".Honeywell's Lyric thermostat has the looks and smarts to take on Nest &gt;&gt; EngadgetThe screen automatically turns on as you approach, and stays off the rest of the time, so it doesn't constantly bathe your living room in orange light. You can physically turn the body to change temperatures obviously, but the selling point here is clearly the connectivity. The Lyric app (for iOS or Android) lets you adjust your furnace on the go and can be programmed to automatically boost or drop the temperature based on your GPS location. But, more than that, it can alert you to when you need to change the filter or have your furnace serviced. It will even direct you to a trusted Honeywell professional.Looks and smarts maybe, but not price: it's $279. Seems aimed at the business buyer, but who wants an individually-controlled device there? It lacks space for showing adverts too.Marginal cost of transportation: robotaxis and sprawl repair &gt;&gt; Strong Towns Blog - Strong TownsNeil Salmond (no relation to Alex?):Apart from the occasional highway convoy, the vision of nose-to-tail robocars is many decades out, if it ever happens at all. This new technology is not cheap, and so the asset will be sweated: robotaxis will not make just two commuting trips per day, and lie idle the rest of the time. They will not make rapid transit redundant either, for simple reasons of geometry and predictability: why wait ten minutes for a more expensive personal taxi, when you can walk to the transit stop and get the next train in two.Instead robotaxis will be offered as a fleet service. The availability of robotaxis in a community will provide two great boosts to sprawl repairers. Firstly, the cost of insurance for human-driven vehicles within city limits will rise hugely. Secondly, parking lots and travel lanes will far more easily be removed as ownership declines. As the boomers die off, their car consumption will not be replaced.What do doctors think of HealthKit? &gt;&gt; QuoraJae Won Joh (who has upvotes from doctors, oncologists and others):It hastremendouspotential…Imagine if with just your phone, you could travel with all of your former imaging studies (e.g. chest X-rays, CT scans). Your verified vaccination records. Your biopsy results. Your list of allergies. Your lab tests from the last 10, 15, 20 years. All the medications and doses you've ever been on, for what time period, and why. Your heart rate and blood pressure measurements from every clinic visit you've ever made.What if all of this was kept in the cloud, with instant access through your phone?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
In a stark and pristine office in the sunlit uplands of London&apos;s Mayfair, three of Index Ventures&apos; senior investors are settling around a table to announce their latest fund, adding a further £328m ($550m) to expand its investments in technology startups across the UK and Europe. Theirs is a portfolio, says partner Saul Klein, built on disruption.&quot;We&apos;re involved in five to ten year cycles - we get involved when [other investors] think they are crazy,&quot; he gushes. For the first time, say the team, they are now in a funding round where they don&apos;t have to try and promise a successful outcome - because the performance of European tech startups in the past 12 months has proved it. &quot;It used to feel a little like the prospect of a British person winning Wimbledon,&quot; partner Ben Holmes explains. &quot;But last year even that happened too.&quot;Overall, Index&apos;s investments represent 140 companies in 38 countries and employ 25,000 people. Those based in London alone reported revenues of $2.3bn for 2013, claims Klein. And there are five billion-dollar valuations in Index&apos;s portfolio alone, including takeaway guide Just Eat, ad firm Criteo, customer services tool Zendesk and games firms Supercell and King Digital.Klein was quick to defend King&apos;s IPO. The creators of the popular Candy Crush Saga were the focus of concern that they could not repeat the success of their flagship game, prompting stock to drop from $22.50 per share during its IPO in March 2014 to $17.65 on 10 June - and dragging its valuation to $5.6bn.Klein is quick to point out that many major tech companies also saw their stock drop after their IPO, including Google, Microsoft and Facebook. &quot;It has gone from doing less than $20m during its first investment to now doing billions in revenues… We just often have to take a view that is different to commercial investing.&quot;Focus on mobile servicesIndex&apos;s structure, operating from Geneva, London and San Francisco means it can connect the expertise of different markets, from finance in Scandinavia to security in Israel and, still, deep hardware in Silicon Valley. Its key focus is now on mobile services, infrastructure for businesses, financial service and marketplaces, such as Etsy and Flipboard.The key to nearly all its investments is finding early stage, disruptive businesses with the potential for changing markets. All these investments are relevant for mainstream consumers, says Klein.&quot;These will turn out to be the companies that host your family photos, like Dropbox, or entertain your kids, like Candy Crush, or provide a loan for your small business in Ipswich, or provide your next holiday, like House Trip,&quot; he explains. Responsibility to protect user data comes with that, he says. &quot;The public have a right to expect the institutions and businesses they entrust their data to, to look after them,&quot; he says.Bitcoin: critical mass and momentumFinding startups that are building marketplaces and networks has been a key strategy for Index, with 29 such business in its portfolio today including fashion retailer Farfetch and Soundcloud. And another exciting emerging network, says co-founder Neil Rimer, is Bitcoin; Index invested $30m in Bitpay in May 2014, believing the service in the centre of the Bitcoin network would help it visualise the flow of the currency.&quot;The promise of a cryptocurrency, if we look at the native capabilities of bitcoin, are truly transformative,&quot; he said, pointing to recent announcements by both Apple and eBay about allowing bitcoin payments through their platforms.&quot;There are so many things you can do natively with bitcoin for free and without taking risk… it&apos;s such a big idea that its conquering of financial flows is inevitable, whether bitcoin or another crypto currency. It has critical mass and momentum, and we&apos;re only seeing first generation businesses now - we&apos;re excited about the second and third wave of companies built on bitcoin.&quot;Rimer doesn&apos;t agree that Bitcoin has seen volatility recently, arguing that its has been more stable than the main financial markets. And he also dismisses the cliche of a developing bubble, at least for the tech sector.&quot;Fifteen years ago there were people so enamoured of the internet that they were assigning crazy multiples to companies that just weren&apos;t serving a need. The jittery markets around King and Just eat are just that. But these are long-lived businesses and here to stay.&quot;•How King Digital Entertainment&apos;s CEO conquered the business world
Last year, at E3’s traditional battle of the platform-holders, Microsoft presented Sony with the most almighty of open goals. Tying itself in knots after an ill-advised bid to position the Xbox One as some sort of entertainment hub which incidentally played games, it floundered in the spotlight.This year, Microsoft redressed the balance to an extent, by concentrating on games to the exclusion of all else. Which meant Sony would have to work harder to come out ahead again. And boy, did it work hard – displaying, in the process, a single-minded confidence which contrasted markedly with Microsoft’s reactivity.Sony was happy to talk about hardware and non-core services, but made sure that everything was underpinned by some decent game announcements and a few left-field surprises. There were plenty of games that the PlayStation faithful have longed for and a huge array of mouth-watering cross-platform titles backed by deals offering timed exclusives and extra content for PS4 versions.Sony left E3 2013 feeling ultra confident, and it started E3 2014 in exactly the same mood.The show-stoppers and watercooler gamesThe big finale of Sony’s press conference saw the first footage of the game that every PS4 owner desperately wants to play – Uncharted 4: A Thief’s End. We’ll have to wait until 2015 for it, but with the suggestion in both the title and the snippets of in-game dialogue (&quot;Let&apos;s do this one last time&quot;) that this is the end of the series provided the show with the perfect dramatic climax. It&apos;s early stuff though, with just a few moments of Nathan waking up in a jungle setting surrounded by skeletons locked within swinging cages.That wasn’t necessarily the most desirable trailer shown during the packed event. The ambitious indie game that dominated the hype at last year&apos;s Spike video game awards, was back to incite awe once again. And indeed, No Man’s Sky from Guildford studio Hello Games, is a truly exciting prospect – a procedurally generated multiplayer space exploration game, in which planets spring into life as players discover them. Every participant will start on a different planet, and each planet seemed to have its own art-style and ecology. We can’t yet tell what its gameplay will be like, but it looks spectacular, and undoubtedly establishes a new playing field for epic game design.LittleBigPlanet 3 also drew appreciation from the massed ranks, noticeably featuring three new protagonists to accompany Sackboy, and an understandable emphasis on co-operative play. Elsewhere, Sony may have played the Japanese solidarity card as a means of ensuring that Bloodborne, a new RPG from much-revered Dark Souls director Hidetaka Miyazaki, will be a PS4 exclusive. The Order: 1886 also looked impressively gothic, although gameplay-wise, it appeared to lean more towards survival horror than all-out action. It was perceived as solid rather than spectacular, but an interesting new PS4 exclusive none the less.Making a splash with non-exclusivesSony opened its press conference with a long look at one of this year’s most anticipated games, Activision’s ground-breaking shooter-meets-MMO Destiny. Even though the Bungie-developed space opera will also come out on the current-gen consoles and Xbox One, Sony President and Group CEO Andrew House revealed that PlayStation 3 and 4 owners will get their hands on it first – thanks to a beta programme launching on July 17 – and PlayStation 4 owners will be able to participate in its alpha programme from Thursday 19 June.The third-party games that Sony chose to showcase – most of which came with some promise of exclusive content or first crack at downloadable additions – couldn’t have been more blue-chip. Ubisoft’s Far Cry 4, set in the fictional, apparently Himalayan, kingdom of Kyrat, looked stunning, and introduced two-player co-op to the mix. Astonishingly, we heard that you will be able to invite your PSN friends to join in the fun even if they don’t own the game.Mortal Kombat X looked even more gloriously twisted than any of its predecessors. Batman: Arkham Knight appeared easily able to live up to the hype that surrounds it, with glimpses at villains Penguin and a truly terrifying Scarecrow. Plus, Sony engineered a genuine third-party coup by lifting the lid on a PS4 version of Grand Theft Auto V and revealing that you’ll be able to import save-games for it from PS3s and Xbox 360s. Cunningly, it was left unclear on the night whether the title would also be coming to Xbox One and PC (it will) giving Sony an initial, if rather cynical, early boost.The indies are growing upMicrosoft impressed earlier with a few great-looking indie games, but Sony has busied itself with skimming off the cream of the indie scene in recent years, and you could see that policy paying real dividends at its E3 2014 press conference.A gorgeous-looking, deeply stylised effort from new developer Pixel Opus called Entwined – with an interesting twin-stick control scheme – looked thoroughly original. Journey’s art director Matt Nava emerged with a new developer called Giant Squid and a game called Abzu that looks like an underwater take on Journey, which will be published by 505 Games. And a bona fide retro classic will re-emerge on the PlayStation Network, in the form of Tim Schafer’s Grim Fandango. This drew one of the loudest cheers of the night, showing the industry&apos;s continued affection for the great LucasArts adventures of the nineties.It wasn’t all gamesSony didn’t shrink from unveiling some hardware elements for the PS4. It showed the Project Morpheus VR headset although, disappointingly, it didn’t give any indication as to when it might go on sale or how much it might cost. It also confirmed that PlayStation TV, an add-on box which will stream PS4 games to any TV in your house (an increasingly attractive proposition in the modern, multi-screen household), is coming to the US, Canada and Europe. It will, at least in the US, have an eye-catchingly low price-point – $99, although who knows how that will translate into pounds. Also, a white PS4 will be made available as part of a Destiny bundle.Andrew House also revealed a forthcoming TV series, exclusive to PlayStation 4, based around the popular comic book, Powers. In a similar model to Netflix and House of Cards, Sony wants us to know it is serious about using PS4 as a venue for exclusive &quot;linear&quot; entertainment.Some unanswered questions remainThere was some news about PlayStation Now, the streaming service that emerged from Sony’s purchase of Gaikai, which will effectively act as the PS4’s backwards compatibility engine. But it was a bit vague, at least as far as the UK is concerned. PlayStation Now will go into beta-testing on July 31 on the PS4, but only in the US; a rather woolly statement about that programme also involving the testing of various subscription models suggests Sony hasn’t yet decide how much it will charge for the system, or whether those with PS3 game disks will be able to play them on the PS4 for free.But it feels a tad unfair to criticise Sony for any omissions and evasions, as there was a tangible feeling that it had crammed so much into the press conference that some things would have to be left out. But the overall message was clear: the recent fallowish period, which has seen the launch of precious few compelling PS4 games, will soon give way to a feverish programme of releases which the company hopes will prove irresistable to those still on the next-gen fence.This was never going to be the super-powered success story of E3 2013, which saw Sony bludgeoning its console opponent. Now, it seems, the two console giants are battling on the same ground, with comparable output and similar strengths and weaknesses. It&apos;s all subjective now, all down to which games players prefer. Listening to the chatter at the end of Monday, journalists and developers were arguing over which was the stronger line-up. That shows the console battle has matured. &quot;It&apos;s all about the games&quot; looks set to be the catch phrase of this year&apos;s exhibition.
Two Canadian 14-year-olds successfully managed to take control of an ATM in their lunch hour using an old manual, and forcing the Bank of Montreal (BMO) to upgrade its security systems.Matthew Hewlett and Caleb Turon found an old ATM service manual online and used it to access the operator mode of a cash machine in Winnipeg when they discovered that the bank had not changed the default password.&quot;We thought it would be fun to try it, but we were not expecting it to work,&quot; Hewlett told theWinnipeg Sun.&apos;Go away. This ATM has been hacked&apos;The boys guessed the default password and gained entry to the operator mode of the ATM, giving them access to the welcome screen, details of how much money it was carrying and how many transactions it had carried out that day – as well as being able to adjust surcharges for withdrawals.Hewlett and Turon told Bank of Montreal staff that they had “hacked” the ATM, but the staff did not believe their claims, asking them for proof of the access.After asking permission, they returned to the ATM, changed the welcome message from &quot;Welcome to the BMO ATM&quot; to read &quot;Go away. This ATM has been hacked”, printed off internal documentation and changed the surcharge amount to one cent.&apos;Assisting with BMO security&apos;Returning to the bank with the documentation in hand, the staff took them seriously and contacted the head of security for the bank.The two boys, who did this all in their lunch hour from school, were now late for class, but were issued a note to excuse their tardiness by the bank’s financial services co-ordinator, as they were “assisting BMO with security”.&quot;Customer information and accounts and the contents of the ATM were never at risk and are secure,&quot; said Ralph Marranca, BMO&apos;s director of media relations in a statement.The bank, which has more than 900 branches across Canada with over seven million customers as well as operations in the US, said it was aware of the incident and has taken steps to prevent unauthorised access, which may have entailed changing the default passwords on its ATMs.•Despite running the discontinued Window XP, ATMs are not at risk of hacking, if their security settings are appropriately set
It is so close you can hear its breath. You are huddled under a hospital gurney, desperately trying to stay still. You don&apos;t know where it is, you can&apos;t tell if the sounds are getting closer or further away. A shadow flickers past, and then an immense black shape. You don&apos;t want to look at it, you don&apos;t want to breathe. Then silence. Has it gone?Suddenly, the whine of a hydraulic door opening and closing. There are muffled thuds, then silence again.Has it gone?Creative Assembly isn&apos;t messing about with Alien: Isolation. The demos the studio has shown so far – short claustrophobic cat-and-mouse sessions with a single xenomorph on a tiny space station – aren&apos;t mere interludes in a standard gung-ho bug hunt. Alien: Isolation reallyisan interactive approximation of Ridley Scott&apos;s original film. It really is focused and terrifying.Just to re-cap, the action takes place 15 years after the movie Alien. A small space station named Sevastopolhas picked up he flight recorder from the Nostromo, but now contact with the facility has been lost. Amanda Ripley, daughter of Ellen and now a Weyland Yutani employee, is part of the investigation party.&quot;Get out of the medical centre!&quot;The E3 demo starts with Amanda, entering the station&apos;s trashed and now largely deserted San Cristobal medical facility. A male voice crackles into life on her radio, telling her to get to a makeshift operations point – probably set up by her Weyalnd Yutani colleagues. Pressing the shoulder button brings up the motion tracker, which also highlights the direction toward each subsequent objective point; there&apos;s also a handy map accessible via the options button. These are vital resources.In typical Alien style, the place is a warren of blind corridors and cluttered rooms, the striplights strobing, the darkness at times all-encompasing. There are operating theatres smeared with blood, and staff quarters littered with abandoned personal trinkets. There are dead bodies propped against walls, slick with viscera.The set design is brilliantly reminiscent of the movie, a mixture of retro-futuristic interior design and grungy lived-in details. Some areas are lit only by flashing red lights, while others are in pitch blackness, requiring the use of the torch, which once switched on, will provide alert the alien to your whereabouts.&quot;It&apos;s coming, it&apos;s getting nearer…&quot;Make no mistake, the motion tracker is of central importance – it&apos;s your life line. Any movement is shown in the triangular distance display, but if the reading is coming from behind or to either side, the direction indicators flash, so you can quickly orientate yourself to the incoming threat. Knowing exactly where the alien is becomes an obsession; you can&apos;t kill it, no matter what weapons you&apos;re carrying. We start the demo with a pistol and soon find a flamethrower, but if the alien attacks, these will only buy you a few seconds to scramble away – evasion is always the preferable option.Most rooms have hiding places. You can clamber into lockers, or under tables. If the xenomorph is near you have to stay out of its line of sight and remain totally silent. It is a hunter with keen AI-driven senses, it can distinguish between sounds, it can see you, and if it knows you&apos;re near, it won&apos;t go away.This is stealth gaming taken to its spine-tingling extremes and the hide-and-wait mechanic provides moments of nerve-shredding tension. From beneath a bed or desk, you can hear the alien stomp past, you can see its feet, its curling, savagely pronged tail. If you get into a locker, it may even approach right up to the grill, at which point you&apos;ll get the option to hold your breath and push your back right up against the rear of the enclosure. It is terrifying.The fear of giant space monsters&quot;The heart of horror is the fear of the unknown, that was one of the early challenges for us,&quot; says the game&apos;s creative lead, Al Hope. &quot;If you&apos;ve watched the films you already know what this creature is so there are no surprises in that. We were always going to stay true to the original so we weren&apos;t going to start inventing different types of alien creature to throw something new at you.&quot;It all had to come back to creating an opponent that you couldn&apos;t predict. It meant that we couldn&apos;t script it, we couldn&apos;t pre-describe paths because, in order for it to feel intelligent, to feel like it&apos;s hunting you, then it has to just use its senses and let that drive its behaviours and drive the experience.&quot;In this demo, our first task is to get through a locked door into the rear portion of the medical facility. Progress requires a pass card, but that itself is locked in a cabinet and a code is needed - you&apos;ll have to stick around and search.Alien craftingInvestigating the environment is a vital process anyway, thanks to the game&apos;s newly revealed crafting system. There are useful components everywhere from explosives, to ethanol, to bandages, and using a similar interface to The Last of Us, these can be crafted into a range of items, including medikits, molotov cocktails, flares and a noise maker, useful for distraction.Once through into the new area, the demo&apos;s second big revelation becomes clear: there are other humans on Sevastopol. The voice on the radio describes them as looters – perhaps the same sort of roaming space scavengers that discovered Ripley at the start of Aliens. But these people are armed and scared. The voice warns us to stay away from them. So here&apos;s a new challenge; as well as the monster, you&apos;re also having to avoid small gangs of trigger happy survivors. If they spot you from a distance, they&apos;ll usually shout a warning for you to get away – stay in their sights, or leap out on them unexpectedly, and they&apos;ll open fire.But these aren&apos;t standard FPS encounters; they&apos;re quick an brutal – and a couple of hits is all it takes to kill Amanda. Even if she survives, the noise of a firefight quickly attracts the alien. Shoot outs tend to be a really bad idea.It&apos;s up to the player how to get past. Melee weapons are silent an effective, but you need to get close. Crouching behind abandoned gurneys and using the darkness for cover can work, but it is slow and nervy. Fortunately, the installation is riddled with under floor air ducts, which can be accessed in key locations, allowing you to bypass looter patrols completely. But you really don&apos;t want to meet the alien while crawling along in this total claustrophobic darkness.Emergent cinematicsThe beauty of the game is the emergent nature of each encounter. Through the combination of the explorable environment, smart AIs and plenty of improvised weapons, every player gets their own moments of cinematic action. After demo sessions, journalists are pouring out, hearts pounding, hands shaking, telling tales of the time they just – just – evaded the alien. My favourite moment is when I hide behind a trolley and lob the noise generator at two looters, hoping to distract them – instead the noise attracts the alien which makes short, bloody work of its human prey before scampering off, leaving me free to progress.Alien Isolation also cleverly subverts some of the key evasion and stealth features of standard first-person games. There&apos;s a sprint option, which will get you to safe areas quickly, but running makes a lot of noise; your trainers squeaking on the polished floors (yeah, the alien can hear that), and you&apos;re more likely to crash into nearby objects. Similarly, you can peek around corners, but you don&apos;t remain invisible to the alien or other humans – they can see your head.Near the end of the demo, we enter a large generator room where Amanda has to re-boot the system in order to open an escape door. Reconnecting the power has the side effect of releasing an android from some sort of recharge chamber – its a terrifying biomechanical being, a sort of malevolent crash test dummy with glowing eyes. Intriguingly, it&apos;s not a Weyland Yutani model, instead it&apos;s the work of Seegson Synthetics, a rival tech company introduced for the game.If the clearly malfunctioning unit spots you, it gives lumbering chase, all the while calmly repeating reassurances and instructions - when it is close enough it tries to beat Amanda to death. Creative Assembly understands the original movie&apos;s dread of intelligent machines.Shock and hackingSo the tension ramps up; a hacking mini-game is required to get into the system – it&apos;s all about replicating an onscreen pattern sequence with the correct icons. The door opens; Amanda races through. There are looters, there is darkness, there are abandoned gurneys littering the corridors, and the alien is close. Just as we&apos;re about to escape, the xenomorph looms up in front, and a portion of the corridor explodes. The screen blacks out.It&apos;s pulverising stuff.Is this how the whole game is going to work? At this frantic level of tension? Hope confirms there aren&apos;t going to be any mass colonial marine shoot-outs, but he also says it won&apos;t all be about sneaking around facing constant nerve-shredding tension.&quot;I don&apos;t think X number of hours of that is going to be particularly fun,&quot; he says. &quot;We can&apos;t make a game that&apos;s unrelentingly oppressive, and keep up that pressure, this game has to be about tension and release, you have to have those intense moments where you&apos;re dealing with everything, but then we have to give you the opportunity - even if it&apos;s very short - to breathe again, to loosen the grip and take stock before embarking back into the unknown.&quot;For me, the game is very much about the whole of the journey. The station itself is almost a character - it&apos;s very broken and physically dangerous and just navigating your way through it is kind of a puzzle so that occupies the player from moment to moment.&quot;Importantly, too, Hope confirms that the whole game takes place on Sevastopol. There aren&apos;t any jaunts onto nearby planets or other space craft. As he explains, &quot;One of the cool things about Alien is the pressure. In the vacuum of space, there is no easy way out. You&apos;re trapped. That was something I wanted the player to experience.&quot;We do, Al, we do.• Alien: Isolation is released on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One on 7 October, 2014
Paris-based music service Deezer reports that users&apos; data is safe after it was taken down by a hacking attack over the weekend.The site, a streaming music service that competes with companies such as Spotify, was hit by two distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks on Friday and Saturday.&quot;The first small attack was detected on Friday morning, but it did not impact the service,&quot; the company said in an email to users. &quot;On Saturday 7th June, at 4pm GMT a large scale attack via a botnet (a group of compromised computers controlled by the attacker) resulted in a downtime of several hours.&quot;While some DDoS attacks are aimed at forcing services to reveal personal data, Deezer says that the attack didn&apos;t target user information, and only affected whether or not the service was actually available.The company says that users personal information &quot;has been, and will remain, completely secure&quot;.A DDoS attack involves sending requests from multiple computers – often tens of thousands are involved – to one server, in an effort to overwhelm it with traffic. Because of the low costs and lack of risk involved, such attacks are favoured by &quot;hacktivist&quot; groups.•Deezer takes on Spotify with 5m paying subscribers and new discovery features
Apple&apos;s iOS 8 will protect users from being spied on by retailers and hackers, by randomising a key piece of information phones use to connect to Wi-Fi.Users of Apple&apos;s next mobile operating system, due in autumn,will no longer be sharing their real &quot;MAC address&quot;with anyone who cares to listen – putting the brakes on attempts to use it to track shoppers.Every networked device has a unique identifier, called a MAC (Media Access Control) address. (The MAC address is not specific to Apple devices.) That address lets networks tell whether a particular device has joined before, or block specific MAC addresses from joining, or allow only those with specific MAC addresses join. Because of how services like Wi-Fi work, phones must broadcast the MAC address widely, even to wireless networks they don&apos;t intend to join.As a result, some retailers have used that information to track customers as they move through stores - because the MAC address from the device shows up at different Wi-Fi points, and triangulation between a number of them plus the signal strength indicates where the phone&apos;s owner is.In May 2013, US retailer Nordstrom ended a programme that let it keep tabs on peoples&apos; shopping habits. &quot;The test is over and we&apos;ll now evaluate the results from it, along with results from other initiatives we have going on that are designed to better serve our customers,&quot;the company said at the time.But devices with iOS 8 installed will not share that information by default: instead, the phone or tablet broadcasts a fake MAC address, until the user actually joins a wireless network, at which point the real address is revealed.American Senator Al Franken, who had proposed legislation to require companies to get users&apos; permission before they collect location data, praised Apple&apos;s changein a statement to the Washington Post, saying &quot;Apple’s decision to protect their users against this form of tracking is a smart and powerful move for privacy&quot;.The change protects users from one form of wireless eavesdropping, but retailers – and more nefarious actors – still have other ways of keeping tabs on their customers. One possibility is the adoption of Apple&apos;s own iBeacon feature, which lets retailers and others use small Bluetooth transmitters to interact with customers&apos; phones.But from a privacy standpoint, there&apos;s a key difference between iBeacons and MAC address eavesdropping: the former requires users to opt in. Customers must explicitly install the retailer&apos;s app before the phone can start listening out for iBeacons, meaning the companies need to offer something in return. And iPhone users can block iBeacon altogether by turning off Bluetooth.There are still privacy holes in Wi-Fi which some can exploit, however.Snoopy, a tool created by security firm SensePost, demonstrates one. When smartphones try to reconnect to a wireless network they&apos;ve already joined once, they do so by broadcasting the name of the network – in effect, shouting &quot;BTHomeHub3DR4, are you there?&quot;Snoopy collects that information, and compares it to a public map of Wi-Fi hotspots. At its best, it can work out, not just whether a particular user has been seen before, but where their home address is, based on which Wi-Fi networks their phone is looking out for.The tool&apos;s creators advise users to turn off Wi-Fi if they aren&apos;t using it.•What is Apple&apos;s iBeacon?
A Chinese hacker group thought to be based in People’s Liberation Army offices was responsible for attacks on US and European satellite companies, a security company has claimed.The report comes just weeks after theUS filed charges against five members of a cyber divisionthought to be working out of the same military organisation, known as Unit 61398, for alleged breaches of six US organisations.The attacks,detailed on Monday, are said to be the work of Unit 61486, and primarily sought to steal trade secrets of private and public bodies operating in the satellite, aerospace and communication industries, according to US firm Crowdstrike.Two separate sources familiar with the activities of the group, which is known as Putter Panda and has been operating since at least 2009, told the Guardian it had attacked companies within the UK.It’s also believed Units 61486 and 61398, the latter also known as APT1, are closely linked. “We do track hundreds of threat actors and this group [Unit 61486] would be covered in our attribution – they are very close to APT1,” said Jason Steer, director of technology strategy at FireEye.Putter Panda hackers sent emails to targets, attempting to lure them into clicking on attachments that promised information on upcoming conferences, the Crowdstrike researchers said. When the attachments were opened, bespoke malware known as remote access trojans would be surreptitiously downloaded on recipients’ systems by exploiting vulnerabilities in Adobe Reader and Microsoft Office.Crowdstrike went as far as to name Chen Ping, aka cpyy, as one of the main operators within Unit 61486, as he was named as the registrant of the internet domains used to manage the attacks. The company said it was not sure if that was cpyy’s real name.Yet his operational security may not have been up to snuff, as researchers found various clues that linked him to the PLA. These included personal pictures posted across his internet accounts, including an “office” file that included images linked to PLA facilities in Shanghai, as well as what appeared to be photos from his dormitory room showing two PLA army officer peak hats.The domains he was thought to have registered were linked to an address corresponding to the physical location of the Shanghai headquarters of Unit 61486, in the Zhabei district of Shanghai, the researchers said.Another person was linked to the group, known as httpchen, who had claimed to be attending the School of Information Security Engineering at Shanghai Jiao Tong University, a “recruiting ground for the PLA to find personnel for its cyber intelligence gathering units”, the Crowdstrike report read.Unit 61486 is part of the PLA’s General Staff Department (GSD) Third Department, the primary intelligence collection and analysis group within China, Crowdstrike said, and supports China’s space surveillance network.Such specific attribution could be incorrect. Security expert Jeffrey Carr said in ablog postthe Crowdstrike attribution was not based on sufficient evidence, whilst Steer said it was “very hard to be able to state with 100% confidence that any group or individual is behind an attack just because of the ease at which it is able to make yourself look like someone else on the internet”.Aviv Raff, CTO of security firm Seculert, which has beentracking the attacks since 2012, said he had also uncovered links to China, but could not prove they emanated from the PLA.Aseparate reporton Tuesday from security company FireEye suggests Chinese hackers are also using social media in their targeted attacks on critical infrastructure providers.It detailed a case involving an unnamed energy company and a fake persona called Emily, a purported job applicant, which was used to contact an employee over social media in an attempt to gather information from the firm.The resume sent by &apos;Emily&apos; via email also included malware, which would install a backdoor on target computers to allow the hackers access. The attacks have been linked to a group called Clandestine Fox, which FireEye believes is based out of China.Some sectors of the security industry and within government are calling on the US and others to apply more pressure on China to curb its digital espionage activity, which the Asian superpower denies ever carrying out.“We believe that organisations, be they governments or corporations, global or domestic, must keep up the pressure and hold China accountable until lasting change is achieved,” the CrowdStrike report read.“Through widespread espionage campaigns, Chinese threat actors are targeting companies and governments in every part of the globe.”The Chinese Embassy in London had not responded to a request for comment at the time of publication. The Chinese government has previously declared the US charges against its officials “ridiculous” and demanded that it rescind the indictments.•How to protect yourself from phishing
It sounded like a mea culpa. Xbox boss Phil Spencer took to the stage at Microsoft&apos;s gigantic press conference, on the eve of the E3 video game show in Los Angeles, and told the thousands of attendees that this would all be about games.Broadcast live over the internet to millions of viewers the world over, the message couldn&apos;t be more clear: last year&apos;s emphasis on the strength of the Xbox One as a multimedia and live TV platform was a mistake. This is a games machine that also does other stuff that no one here really wants to hear about.At the end of a pummeling 90 minutes of game announcements and confirmations, Spencer took to the stage again and said, &quot;thank you for making your voice heard, thank you for helping us shape the future of the new Xbox.&quot; Basically, it&apos;s what Microsoft has been saying for the last six months – we listened, we changed, now eat this.So now that it&apos;s all about the games, what are the games actually like? Here are the key messages from the conference.The big guns are firingThere were lots of huge Xbox console exclusives that we knew would figure highly, that did indeed, figure highly. There was a short Halo demo, showing Master Chief flying a space bomb into an enormous craft. There&apos;s a suggestion the player will also take control of another Spartan investigating the series hero – more on that later. There was also Forza Horizon 2, complete with day/night cycles &quot;dramatic&quot; weather, the new Lamborghini, and the ability to set up driver clubs. It&apos;s out on September 30.We also had a very lush, vibrant Fable Legends demo, showing four playable characters battling through a lush woodland. The key innovation is a new Villain role, which allows one player to take on the role of a Dungeon Master, arranging enemy traps and attacks. Oh and there was a new digitally distributed instalment of the Dance Central series, Dance Central Spotlight, which boasts a new technology allowing the game to feature new tracks much faster.The most surprising exclusive, perhaps, was the new title from Japanese studio Platinum Games, responsible for Vanquish and Bayonetta, and now Scalebound, which appears to be a game about a dudebro who fights giant monsters while wearing fashionable headphones – although Observer writer Matt Kamen said, &quot;it looks like a cross between Panzer Dragoon and Devil May Cry, and there isnothingwrong in that sentence&quot;. And heck this is Platinum Games!Xbox One exclusive contentTo back up its own brands, Microsoft also employed the familiar tactic of securing timed downloadable content exclusives on key multi-platform releases. It looks like the Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare maps will hit Xbox One first, and both Dragon Age: Inquisition and Tom Clancy&apos;s The Division will have unspecified DLC content available on the Microsoft machine before PS3. In an interesting twist, the next game from Playdead, the creator of atmospheric platformer Limbo will appear first on Xbox One. Named Inside, the project looks to be another fascinatingly moribund endeavour, set in a dark Orwellian world of traipsing monochrome men trapped in a vast retro-futuristic edifice.Voices from the pastThere were some big retro treats for longtime Xbox fans. First, Dave Jones, founder of DMA design and Real-Time Worlds, made a surprise appearance to announce that his new studio is working on a re-boot of Crackdown. The cult open-world adventure will retain its stylised look with rich cell-shaded visuals, and a city that looks like it&apos;s constructed entirely out of &apos;80s neon night club signs. Also, as the E3 demo showed one character driving a giant fuel tanker bomb into a building, bringing it crashing down in a super nova of fire, it seems there will be no attempt to add subtlty to the series. Thank goodness. No firm release date yet.We&apos;re also going to see a return of Xbox title Phantom Dust, a card-based action strategy romp developed for the original Xbox by Panzer Dragoon creator,Yukio Futatsugi. With its emphasis on building decks of weapons and items, it&apos;s a timely return, considering the growing fandom around Heathstone and Netrunner. The project will be overseen by Ken Lobb, creative director on the Killer Instinct reboot.As one last little retro nod, Rare&apos;s much-loved squirrel character Conker will be available in Project Spark, the game creation package. Which means you&apos;ll be able to make your own Conker&apos;s Other Bad Day.Developers are getting the hang of this next-gen console businessThe first wave of Xbox One and PlayStation 4 titles were hamstrung by cross-generational development regimes (supporting both the old PS3 and Xbox 360 as well as the new consoles) and the usual lack of experience on new platforms. But the demos and trailers shown this morning in LA hint that developers are getting into their stride. A dramatic sequence from Assassin&apos;s Creed: Unity, set in revolutionary France, revelled in the blood, guts and chaos of the era. Shoing off the new co-op gameplay it had two players running through the streets of paris, taking out soldiers, before starting a riot that ends in a marquis being beheaded. There are sword fights, revolting peasants and a severed head on a stick, it&apos;s eyes flickering horribly. Beautiful stuff.Elsewhere a short sequence from the next Lara Croft game Rise of the Tomb Raider (due out Winter 2015) had the young archeologist speaking to a psychiatrist about the experiences of the first game, while flashing to a variety of action sequences. And though bludgeoningly familiar right now, the demo for Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which showed a street battle in a Futuristic Korean city, has super detailed visuals, including generous use of smoke and particle effects and a giant walking tank. Which is nice.There was a lot of colour too – in Sunset Overdrive, of course, but also Crackdown and Fable Legends. Colour is good.Obligatory indie section is obligatoryYeah, but there was some good stuff in Microsoft&apos;s blipvert run-through of indie titles – all coming to the console courtesy of the ID@Xbox programme, which seeks to help smaller studios make and distribute games on the platform. Among them was Lovers in a Dangerous Space Time, Hyper Light Drifter, Might No 9 from Comcept, Fenic Rage, Aztez and Threes, which is just about the only game on this whole article that my wife would recognise. Add in Below from Capy Games, Inside from Playdead and the haunting-looking Ori and the Bling Forest from Moon Studios, which was given a longer trailer and looked gloomily gorgeous and you have a decent line-up to face Sony&apos;s own inevitable onslaught.VerdictPhil Spencer promised games and he delivered lots and lots of games, some of them really rather beautiful to look at. It was a noisy, somewhat relentless event, that had some crowd-pleasers, some interesting smaller projects and a few glimpses at what the big publishers are pulling out of the development bag for the second wave of next-gen consoles (well, they&apos;re current-gen now, of course, but that is way too confusing). The fact that gamers knew they could expect a little Halo, some Forza and a smattering of Call of Duty, Assassin&apos;s Creed, as well as one or two retro returnees, meant that the atmosphere at the cavernous Galen Center never quite reached fever pitch. Or maybe it just couldn&apos;t be heard abover the bellowing sound system which was turned up past eleven to &quot;apocalypse&quot;.Really, Microsoft did what it needed to do, it showed its core audience that it still loves them, and it has plenty of games with guns and swords and dragons, and you won&apos;t have to wave at the screen or shout &quot;Xbox: make it stop&quot;. Microsoft had to seduce its fanbase all over again, and anyone outside of that demographic may have felt slightly overlooked or under-addressed. &quot;Indie&quot; definitely is a part of this vision, and there are snatches of real innovation, but for this E3, there&apos;s a feeling we need more than a glimpse at something new. We need original IP from the vast mega-studios that stretches these big, powerful machines, and stretches what we mean by games.Or maybe that&apos;s just me.Microsoft has done enough, easily enough. But in this explosive and unpredictable industry is enough really ever enough? Over to you, Sony.• Keith Stuart attended E3 on a press trip with other journalists, in which travel and accommodation costs were met by Microsoft. For information on the Guardian&apos;s policy covering paid-for trips, please see theeditorial codeorthis article on transparency and trust.
Publishing platform Medium has relaunched its subsidiary Matter as the focus of its publishing efforts, admitting for the first time that it is a publisher as well as a publishing platform.The original version of Matter, a British science and technology journalism startup acquired by Medium in April 2013, has been quietly closed after the relaunch. Its former editor, Bobbie Johnson, previously a Guardian reporter, remains involved with the project and still works at Medium, but Matter will now be edited by Mark Lotto, formerly a senior editor at GQ.Founded by the Twitter creator, Ev Williams, in August 2012, Medium has long confused commentators with its hybrid nature. While it resembles a blogging platform like Williams&apos; first start-up,Blogger, it also commissions and publishes paid-for content. That led the tech CEO Jonathan Glick tocoin the term &quot;platisher&quot;to describe firms like Medium.Announcing the relaunch of Matter, Williams tried to &quot;clear things up&quot;, under the heading &quot;Yes, we’re a publisher.&quot;&quot;Medium is unquestionably a platform,&quot; he said. &quot;We have a top-notch product team working hard to make Medium the best place for people and organisations to publish their stories and ideas to the world. More than 10,000 were published just last week.&quot;One of the publishers on the platform is Medium, the company, as we have been from the beginning. Sometimes we find a writer we like who has a story we think should be told and commission them to tell it… The relaunch of Matter is our most ambitious publishing effort to date, but it’s likely not our last.&quot;Matter was formed aftera successful Kickstarter campaignin March 2012, with the goal of launching a new journalism startup featuring readers paying directly for long-form reporting on technology and science. It wasacquired by Medium in April 2013, and initially Matter founders Bobbie Johnson, a former Guardian and GigaOm journalist, and Jim Giles, formerly of New Scientist and Nature. &quot;We have no immediate plans to alter the team, the places we publish… or how much we charge for each article,&quot; theyannouncedat the time.Under Mark Lotto, Matter&apos;s focus will expand to cover topics &quot;from science and tech to pop culture and politics.&quot;Lotto adds that&quot;what we’re doing is hard to explain: We’re not a news site, but we’ll cover the news, often, and in provocative and playful ways. We’re not another longform publisher, but we’re going to be publishing a lot of longform. We’re not going to be Wikipedia-broad, but we’re not going to be niche either.&quot;&quot;Mostly, Matter is going to try stuff.&quot;GigaOm&apos;s Matthew Ingrampraised the boldness, saying that &quot;while there’s a natural tendency to want to fit Medium into a specific kind of box, or to get it to answer the question of what it is once and for all… I think it’s sort of admirable that the site is experimenting with a bunch of different models – not just for finding or publishing content, but for compensating writers and tracking metrics around how that content engages readers.&quot;The relaunch of Matter follows an insight into the workings of the site from editor Arikia Millikan, whose LadyBits blog became one of the first high-profile collections on the Medium. Millikan described the experience of putting together a publication on the site as &quot;frustrating&quot;, but said that &quot;what they are developing is still, sadly, leagues beyond almost every other online publication.&quot;•Can Twitter co-founder take an &apos;evolutionary leap&apos; into storytelling?
A Romanian court has sentenced the hacker known as “Guccifer”, famed for posting nude self-portraits of George W Bush on the internet, to four years in jail on Friday.Marcel Lazar Lehel, 42, a former cab driver in Arad near the Romanian border with Hungary, was better known by his aliases &quot;Guccifer&quot; and &quot;Small Fume”, which he used while hacking into various high-profile people&apos;s email accounts.Victims also included Jeremy Paxman, three members of the House of Lords and the head of the Romanian secret service.Guccifer was arrested by agents from Romania&apos;s Directorate for Investigating Organised Crime and Terrorism in January this year, but shot to fame in 2013 when he hacked into the former US president Bush’s AOL email account and those of his family.Bath and shower portraits of BushThe hacker stole private photos, artwork and correspondence, including self-portraits depicting Bush in the shower and bath and photos of George H W Bush in hospital which he posted online.Lehel gained access to a confidential list of home addresses, phone numbers and emails of dozens of members of the Bush family, including both former US presidents and their children.The hacker also leaked personal emails sent between the former US secretary of state Colin Powell and the Romanian European parliament member Corina Cretu – prompting Powell to deny allegations of an affair in 2013.Guccifer also hacked into the private Yahoo email account of George Maior, head of Romania&apos;s secret service, which the agency said had been used in the past for academic correspondence, not secret-service business.Googling answers to security questionsThe long list of Guccifer’s high-profile victims allegedly covered entertainers, industrialists, academics, diplomats, financiers, government and military officials, and journalists, including Obama administration officials, three members of the House of Lords and Jeremy Paxman, according to documentssent to news site the Smoking Gun.Lehel employed several methods to break into the email, but found success simply guessing answers to security questions using publicly available information, including Wikipedia, to gain access to online accounts with Facebook, BT Internet, AOl, Yahoo and others.Guccifer’s simple attacks display the importance ofsecuring private informationand ensuring that personal data linked to security and password reset questions is not publicly available following several high-profile break-ins where personal data was stolenincluding eBayandOffice shoes.Lehel was also convicted of hacking into the email accounts of Romanian public figures in 2012, but was given a three-year suspended sentence.The court ordered the defendant to pay 11000 Romanian Leu (£2,020) in legal costs to the state and confiscated a silver NEC laptop owned by the Lehel.The FBI and other US law enforcement agencies have reportedly been investigating Lehel since 2013, but the Romanian court did not publish any details of Lehel’s actions or whether the US had sought extradition.•How to protect yourself from phising attacks and unwittingly handing over sensitive private information
Selfie smartphone photos were seemingly everywhere in 2013, while digital &quot;stickers&quot; have also been growing fast within social apps. Now Japanese firm Line is combining the two.Line, which has more than 400m registered users, has launched a new standalone iPhone app in the west:Line Selfie Sticker.The app gets people to take a photo of their own or somebody else&apos;s face, then maps it onto one of 130 character templates, applying a cartoon-like filter to ensure it blends in.The resulting stickers can be customised with speech bubbles and shared with friends on Line, but also on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram – making the app a viral marketing tool for Line itself.“From the cute and cuddly Line characters to a career-driven independent women, this app has it all,” explains its App Store listing. “Cheerleaders, Weddings, Pirates, Monsters, and more.”Stickers are already a sizeable business for Line, whichreported $338m of revenues in 2013. While the lion&apos;s share of those came from in-app purchases in its catalogue of mobile games, around 20% – $67.6m – came from sales of stickers created by its own designers, as well as brands like Disney, Marvel, Sanrio and MTV.An app enabling Line users to create stickers with their own faces may seem to undercut that business, but it&apos;s highly likely that Line will start selling characters within the Selfie Sticker app at some point too.Line is most popular in Japan and across south east Asia, although the company has big ambitions in the west too: in April, executives said thatLine is aiming to sign up 600m people by the end of 2014, before passing 1bn sometime in 2015.It is difficult to tell how popular Line really is, though, since it only ever publishes figures for its total &quot;registered&quot; users – which will include people who tried its app then stopped using it.That&apos;s a contrast to rivals like WhatsApp and WeChat, which have regularly announced how many &quot;active&quot; users they have.Facebook-owned WhatsApp had 500m by April this year, whileWeChat recently reached 396m.Branded stickers have been a key ingredient in Line&apos;s attempts to sign up more western users. In Spain, for example, it has stickers from Barcelona and Real Madrid football clubs, as well as tennis player Rafael Nadal.Meanwhile, musicianSir Paul McCartney launched a free set of stickersafter joining Line in October 2013. He has since signed up more than 9m followers within the app – more than his followers on Facebook (5.7m) and Twitter (1.9m) combined.•Social app Line targets UK after signing up 260m users
Lara Croft first made her debut in the original Tomb Raider in 1996. Since then, however, the cut-glass-accented British archaeologist has become a worldwide phenomenon. Photograph: Square EnixA much-loved character, Crash, the, er … bandicoot, lives on Wumpa Islands and spends all of his time foiling the evil plans of Doctor Neo Cortex. Originally exclusive to Playstation, Crash later expanded to other platforms. Photograph: PlaystationBella and Mortimer Goth have been dear to fans of The Sims since the first incarnation of the game. Unlike the Newbies, the Goths are interesting and fun to play –  especially their creepy child, Cassandra. Photograph: Electronic ArtsCloud, with his blonde locks and blue eyes, belies his status as a fighter for Avalanche.  Photograph: Square EnixPerhaps inspired by a silhouette of someone knocking back Tic Tacs, Pac-Man is one of the most famous video game characters of all time. Photograph: Rex FeaturesFifteen-year-old Sonic first made an appearance in Rad Mobile, as an air freshener. Now the speedy one is known and loved all over the globe. Photograph: Moviestore Collection/Rex FeaturesSolid Snake, the Foxhound member is consistently rated as one of the best characters of all time. Possessing an IQ of 180 and fluent in six languages, he's also one one of few people to look good in a bandana Photograph: KonamiKirby has appeared in a prolific 20 games since his birth in 1992. Kirby lives in Dream Land on the planet Pop Star, which is a swankier address than even Palo Alto, California. Photograph: NintendoThe hero of The Legend of Zelda, Link is a Hyrule native and spends most of his time rescuing the Princess, who sniffs out trouble like a police canine. Photograph: NintendoNot just a character, but also Nintendo's mascot. The diminutive Italian plumber Mario lives in Mushroom Kingdom with his brother Luigi. Photograph: NintendoAw, everyone's favourite orphaned, Catholic, alcoholic priest who wears a Jaguar mask. There are two Kings – the second one took over from Tekken 3 onwards. Both, however, are rivals of Armor King. Photograph: NAMCO BANDAI GamesDr Gordon Freeman, theoretical physicist and alien-fighter, never speaks throughout the Half-Life games. In fact, the only time we see him physically represented is on the game box. Photograph: Sierra Entertainment/Valve Corporation/Electronic ArtsOne of the protagonists in the Street Fighter series, Ryu's best friend is Ken Masters. Ryu has been part of the series since 1987. Photograph: CapcomMax is an NYPD police officer and an undercover special agent for the DEA who turns rogue after his family are murdered. He's had it tough. Photograph: Rockstar GamesThe most well-coiffed character there is, Rayman's spinning fists and positive disposition always make for fun times. Photograph: UbisoftJak (probably the worst facial hair ever seen in video games), and his friend Daxter became one of the lead franchises upon the release of the Playstation 2. Photograph: Playstation/Naughty DogThe most famous of all Pokémon characters, and who can blame Pikachu? We all love him, even when he gets mad. Photograph: NintendoSpyro the Dragon, despite being a dragon, is adorable. His little purple body, orange wings, and especially spiked-mohawk make him a hit among gamers. Photograph: Insomniac Games
As a games publisher, you know you&apos;re in with a good chance if you can call on a Star Wars tie-in to rouse &quot;core&quot; gamers. And if you&apos;re working on two, the world is pretty much yours for the taking.Strangely though, Electronic Arts underplayed its due of sci-fi battlers during its glitzy pre-E3 press conference. A dozen or so games were shown off in various states of completion, from the forthcoming EA Sports UFC, the mixed martial arts game which now features a reincarnated Bruce Lee in Game of Death-style yellow skin-tight shorts, to the slightest whisper of an unnamed project from BioWare Edmonton, the team that made hugely successful Mass Effect trilogy.There were no major new formal announcements (at least, none which hadn’t already been leaked in recent weeks) but there was plenty of fresh footage and accompanying adjective-heavy hyperbole from the on-stage execs.Here are the highlights.The creator of Burnout is innovating on racing games againThe British studio Criterion (best known for its work on the Burnout racing games) showed an early prototype of a first-person-viewed extreme sports game that will, apparently, allow players to control not just cars but also ATVs, helicopters, planes, jet-skis and a slew of other vehicles in freeform races. The game’s been inspired by head-cam footage of drivers and athletes uploaded to YouTube and offers the rather lofty promise of allowing players to “go anywhere and make any experience that they want”. The studio talked about how an internal reshuffle has allowed for more rapid prototyping, work that has already yielded novel and exciting results.Mass Effect 4 and BioWare’s untitled new blockbuster are a mysteryIt’s unusual for a publisher to show its new games so soon into the development process, but this was perhaps a necessary move for EA today in order to bulk out a presentation that would otherwise have been too short to warrant this kind of showboating expense. Its not only the financial cost of developing blockbuster video games for the latest hardware that continues to rise; the amount of time needed to build these gleaming worlds is lengthening. It’s understandable that top tier game publishers now trail their games years in advance of release.As well as BioWare’s all new franchise that’s in an early stage of development (we were shown only a few of the vivid hills and fields that will make up its world) EA also teased its in-progress sci-fi epic Mass Effect which will, according to the team, feature “new places, new characters, and new people to fall in love with.”And we&apos;re still not much wiser about Star Wars BattlefrontEA is putting the evergreen Star Wars license to good use – although there was no sign of the company’s major new unnamed title in the series, on which Amy Hennig, the writer and creative director of Sony’s Hollywood-esque Uncharted series, is now working.But we were shown the new Star War Battlefront game from DICE Stockholm, a collaboration with LucasFilm. This came in the underwhelming form of some diligently rendered locations based on those seen in the original trilogy of films. There were speeder bikes, but no At-Ats. Or lightsabers. The rest of the game’s segment in the presentation was given over to some well-shot footage of the team working on the game and frolicking on location, obviously enjoying the job of raiding Lucasfilm atchives for source material.Mirror’s Edge 2 is broadeningSome typically striking Mirror's Edge 2 concept artMirror’s Edge was one of the most stylish and striking games of the past decade. For this unexpected sequel (the original sold poorly) we once again return to the red trainers of Faith, an Eastern free-runner who picks her way over and across the contours of a futuristic city. The developer promised “more varied gameplay” and a greater degree of experimentation on this sequel (the opportunity to take safer, longer routes for example, in favour of the quicker, more perilous options) but the same projectile-like sense of agility and rapidity that defined the original seems to have been retained.Available to Download NowSims 4 - now with even more emotionNot everything on EA’s slate was a distant promise. The company’s bread and butter annual sports releases, including FIFA, Madden and NHL will all launch in incrementally better looking form this autumn, alongside life simulation The Sims 4 and, the latest entry in that current Game of Thrones-inspired Tolkein-ification of video games, Dragon Age Inquisition.Perhaps as a way to scratch the more immediate itch of those players who want something less familiar to play today, the company bookended its presentation with an Apple style surprise: the news that the beta version of Battlefield Hardline, a cops and robbers themed spin-off to the Swedish-made Battlefield series, is available to download the moment that the presentation concluded.Developed by Visceral (the studio currently working with Hennig on the new Star Wars game) the single player story will be “like a TV crime drama” while the squad-based multiplayer pits a team of land and sky-based police against a group of armed thieves as they attempt to execute heists and make off with the spoils while avoiding capture.VerdictWhile the company’s COO Peter Moore promised that 50 percent of the projects demonstrated on stage during the company’s hour-long presentation were brand new, many of these were clearly in an early stage of development, and most lacked official titles to furnish the headlines. This was an interesting if speculative showcase.•E3 2014: Microsoft press conference – the key points
If you can&apos;t beat &apos;em, try to buy &apos;em. And if you can&apos;t buy &apos;em, try to beat &apos;em again. That, in a nutshell, appears to be Facebook&apos;s approach to popular messaging app Snapchat.The social network tried (and failed) to steal Snapchat&apos;s thunderwith its own ephemeral-messaging app called Pokein December 2012, before reportedly trying (and failing)to buy Snapchat for $3bn a year later.Plan C is an app called Slingshot, which wasrumoured to be in development earlier this year. Those rumours were confirmed last night when Facebook &quot;accidentally&quot; launched it for iPhone in a number of countries.The app was quickly pulled from the App Store, but not before sites includingThe VergeandTechCrunchhad captured its promotional screenshots and marketing text, explaining how the app will work.Slingshot is like Snapchat in that it gets people to share photos and video clips with friends, including features to scribble on the former before sending.Twists include the ability for recipients to send a photo of their reaction back straight away, and also the requirement for them to &quot;unlock&quot; messages by sending their own in return.&quot;Slingshot lets you quickly share moments —little and big— with all your friends. Shoot a photo or video of what you’re up to and sling it to a bunch of people. They won’t be able to see your shot until they sling something back. Tap on a shot to react, or simply swipe it away.&quot;&quot;Earlier today, we accidentally released a version of Slingshot, a new app we&apos;re working on,&quot; confirmed Facebook in a statement following first reports of the app&apos;s release.&quot;With Slingshot, you&apos;ll be able to share everyday moments with lots of people at once. It&apos;ll be ready soon and we&apos;re excited for you to try it out.&quot; The company has not given a specific launch date.Facebook&apos;s chief executive Mark Zuckerberg has made no secret of his interest in Snapchat&apos;s growth.&quot;I think Snapchat is a super interesting privacy phenomenon because it creates a new kind of space to communicate which makes it so that things that people previously would not have been able to share, you now feel like you have a place to do so,&quot; hetold an audience at Stanford universityin January.&quot;I think that’s really important and that’s a big kind of innovation that we’re going to keep pushing on and keep trying to do more on and I think a lot of other companies will, too.&quot;Slingshot also fits into Facebook&apos;s evolving mobile strategy, based on more standalone apps for separate tasks, rather than the single Facebook app to do everything.This is spearheaded by a division called Creative Labs, which is working on apps likenews-reader Paperand now Slingshot. &quot;What we’re doing with Creative Labs is basically unbundling the big blue app,&quot;Zuckerberg told the New York Timesin April.&quot;I think you’ll see a combination of us making some of these things that have been products for a while into first-class experiences. And you’ll see us exploring new areas that we felt we didn’t have the room to do before.&quot;•Ten things you need to know about Snapchat
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPrivacy as a competitive vector &gt;&gt; AVCFred Wilson (whose venture capital company has invested in DuckDuckGo):assuming that Google's search volume keeps growing at 15% per year, DuckDuckGo would be doing 1.7% of Google's daily search volume in three years.So there is certainly a market out there for people who will accept a slightly weaker product in exchange for privacy. It's not 25% of the market. It may not even be 5% of the market. But I believe it is well north of 1% of the market.And if that is the case, are there other big product categories out there other than search where privacy could be used as a competitive vector? How about email? How about messaging? How about maps? How about browsers?I think we are going to see this play out in the coming years. DuckDuckGo is making it work. Why won't others do the same?Surprising that Wilson hasn't noticed other companies already emphasising privacy in their products such as email, messaging, maps and browsers.Exclusive: Google will soon introduce 'Nearby' to let other 'people, places, and things' know when you're around &gt;&gt; Android PoliceUsers, according to our information, will also be able to choose who (and presumably what) they are visible to. This will limit the ways that Nearby can automatically interact on a user's behalf.While it's still early in its life cycle, and settings don't appear to be fully built out yet, it's easy to imagine Nearby coming in handy for extremely targeted Wallet offers, reminders, or other location-based interactions, but the important part here is that a user wouldn't need to interact with their phone or tablet to let other devices (be they mobile or otherwise) know they are around, and switching on Nearby once would allow the functionality to work with all of a user's devices.This would open up the possibility of automated functionality in tons of spaces beyond the commercial world, from home automation to everyday user-to-user interaction, to the interaction between your own devices. This is especially interesting in light of Apple's recent announcement of Continuity, an iOS and OS X feature that allows Apple-made devices to interact with each other in really smart ways automatically, based on proximity.Basically, the same sorts of functions as iBeacon. Disquieting, however: "When Nearby is turned on for your account, Google can periodically turn on the mic, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and similar features on all your current and future devices." Remotely turn on the microphone? All your current devices? All yourfuturedevices?The right way to copy &gt;&gt; David SmithWhat I have found very frustrating is that I haven't been able to define what is acceptable in a manner that comes anywhere close to the importance I think this topic demands. Too often I am left with just an I'll know it when I see it definition.With that in mind I present a game that I came across this evening. I think it perfectly encapsulates the positive side of the issue in a way that is hopefully instructive to showcase. The game in question isFlappyGolf.Smartphone market share and usage by country - Apr-May 2014 &gt;&gt; Tech-Thoughts by Sameer SinghSameer Singh:While market share of shipments is certainly a leading indicator for install base (and consequently, usage), it only gives us a part of the story. Contrasting regional market share and usage share (as a proxy for install base) may give us an even better understanding.As always, I've sourced the figures for shipment market share from Kantar while usage share figures are from Statcounter. Usage share (or browsing share) isn't an ideal proxy for install base as it could be skewed towards higher end devices. However, the trends in usage share could give us a fairly good understanding of the underlying install base.A tiny technical change in iOS 8 could stop marketers spying on you &gt;&gt; QuartzAt the core of such tracking is the MAC address, a unique identification number tied to each device. Devices looking for a Wi-Fi network send out their MAC address to identify themselves. Wireless routers receive the signals—and addresses—even if a connection is never made. Companies like Euclid or its peer Turnstyle Solutions use the data to track footfall in stores, how people move about in shops, how long they linger in certain sections, and how often they return. Store-owners use the information to target shoppers with offers (paywall) or to move high-value items to highly-trafficked parts of the shop, among other things.Even though stores may not mine this data to try to identify individuals, there are plenty of legitimate privacy concerns about the data collection, especially since people tend to be unaware that it is happening. Apple's solution, asdiscovered by a Swiss programmer, is for iOS 8, the new operating system for iPhones which will be out later this year, to generate a random MAC addresses while scanning for networks.Aviate: the intelligent homescreen that simplifies your phone. &gt;&gt; Aviate.comIntelligent throughout your day. Aviate intelligently surfaces information at the moment it's useful.Smart: the idea being that it tells you about the weather in the morning, transport later in the day, meetings when they're relevant, meals later, and so on. For Android phones only (obviously). But you probably won't guess who it's from. (Scroll to the bottom of its page to find out.)How it works &gt;&gt; All this"Dr Drang":As an engineer, I can't forget that design is how it works. When I was in college, I took seven design courses: steel design, advanced steel design, reinforced concrete design, advanced reinforced concrete design, prestressed concrete design, timber design, and a "capstone" design course that was intended to pull together what I learned in all the others. Now, when I need to analyze a structure or a piece of equipment, I ask for the design drawings. In my world, design is what engineers do to make things work.The software world, on the other hand, has this weird dichotomy between what it calls "engineers" and what it calls "designers."The anxieties of big data &gt;&gt; The New InquiryKate Crawford:The current mythology of big data is that with more data comes greater accuracy and truth. This epistemological position is so seductive that many industries, from advertising to automobile manufacturing, are repositioning themselves for massive data gathering. The myth and the tools, as Donna Haraway once observed, mutually constitute each other, and the instruments of data gathering and analysis, too, act as agents that shape the social world. Bruno Latour put it this way: "Change the instruments, and you will change the entire social theory that goes with them." The turn to big data is a political and cultural turn, and we are just beginning to see its scope.But what do you do when you realize that all that data is not enough? From the Boston bombings to Malaysian Airlines flight 370, we know that data black holes exist. Even when there were direct tip-offs about the Tsarnaevs, the data didn't set off the right red flags. These moments demonstrate why the epistemic big-data ambition — to collect it all — is both never-ending and deeply flawed.This is the essay that was referred to by John Naughton inhis piece on Sunday.Oops! Tim Cook tweets photo of Mac production line running Windows &gt;&gt; PCWorldWell, there's apparently one good thing Microsoft's Windows is good at: running the software necessary to manufacture Apple's Mac computers.And the messenger of this information? Apple chief executive Tim Cook himself. On Thursday, Cook tweeted a photo of himself touring Apple's Austin, Texas production line where the Apple Mac Pro is manufactured.The problem? Right behind Cook is an iMac—and it's clearly running Windows.Feb 2011: Huge vote of confidence: Uber raises $11m from Benchmark Capital &gt;&gt; TechCrunchMichael Arrington, February 2011:Uber, a young startup that let's people book a black car service on the fly via their mobile app, has closed an $11m round valuing the company at $49m pre-money valuation, $60 million post-money, we've confirmed from sources.The comments - especially one from a taxi company - make good reading.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Kickstarter has launched a new&quot;Creator Handbook&quot;in an effort to help more of its users successfully hit their crowdfunding targets.Launched as part of the company&apos;s website, the handbook offers advice on first steps, what sort of rewards to offer buyers, feedback on the most efficient ways to market a project, and tips on fulfilment once it&apos;s funded.The handbook appears to be inspired byYouTube&apos;s Creator Playbook, a regularly-updated online document explaining how people can build audiences on Google&apos;s video service.&quot;It’s your one-stop guide to designing a solid Kickstarter project, presenting it effectively, finding backers, and delivering on your plans,&quot; explained Kickstarter in ablog post announcing its handbook.&quot;It has insights and articles from Kickstarter veterans on how they pulled off successful campaigns. It has tips, tricks, and best practices on everything from making a project video to sorting out schedules, working with backers, and fulfilling rewards.&quot;The handbook&apos;s launch is part of a wider effort by Kickstarter to get more people launching successful projects on its service.Earlier in June, the company announced thatit had &quot;boiled down&quot; its rules into three key principles: &quot;Projects must create something to share with others. Projects must be honest and clearly presented. Projects cannot fundraise for charity, offer financial incentives, or involve prohibited items.&quot;It has also debuted a feature called &quot;Launch Now&quot; which enables people to launch Kickstarter projects without having to get feedback from one of the company&apos;s staff beforehand.Since its launch in 2009, Kickstarter has generated nearly $1.2bn of pledges for projects, with more than 63,000 successfully funded.Music is the most popular category in terms of funded projects, with more than 16,000 success stories. However, games is the most lucrative category, with $219m pledged for just over 1,300 successfully-funded projects.Rivals include Indiegogo, whichrecently raised more than $40min venture capital funding, and sector-specific sites like PledgeMusic for musicians, Unbound for authors and Distrify for filmmakers.•Kickstarter&apos;s biggest hits: 20 most significant projects so far
It's an incongruous sight, some of Buckingham Palace's most opulent reception rooms playing host to the fastest-rising stars of the UK tech industry. But under an impressive chandelier and overlooking the palatial gardens, a modest table of wares is being nervously demonstrated by some of the team behind Raspberry Pi, the Cambridge-based mini-computer project.Raspberry Pi has nearly sold 2m units, co-founder Eben Upton explains, outselling the BBC Micro, outselling the Amstrad and rapidly closing in on Clive Sinclair's iconic Spectrum computer."I've lost count of the number of people I've met in the tech industry who started out on a BBC," says the Duke of York, who's in a lively mood, getting hands-on with the tech demonstrations.He appears fully versed with the Raspberry Pi already. "What people are applying the Raspberry Pi to outstrips any of the things you intended it for, doesn't it?" he says, surveying a table showing the mini-computers running a game of Minecraft and Space Bear – a computer-equipped teddy bear that relived Felix Baumgartner's near-space jump in August 2013.More than 350 of the UK's most successful and most promising technologists have been invited to Buckingham Palace by the Queen and the Duke of York for Tech at the Palace. As a special treat, guests are allowed to keep their mobile phones with them so they can tweet about their power networking experience.Some of this forward thinking might be down to the Duke of York himself, who appears very well versed in the handful of tech companies presenting here. He's promoting his own awards scheme launched in March, iDEA, which has set the ambitious target of providing one million young people with support and skills around digital entrepreneurship. Launched in March 2014, the scheme is oversubscribed in its trial phase, says the duke, with 1,000 young people signed up and a waiting list. Musician Will.I.Am, whom he met at a Royal Academy of Engineering event, is a launch partner, alongside the creators of the project the Nominet Trust.Having recently ruled out a return to his role as special representative for trade and industry, what does the iDEA scheme mean to him? The shadow of the Duke of Edinburgh's own 58-year-old awards scheme looms large, but he quickly dismisses the suggestion that iDEA is any attempt to create the same kind of legacy."No, never. Imitation might be the greatest form of flattery, so I stole that from him freely," he said. "But this is about giving young people the digital skills they need for the 21st century … I don't care if these young people come from Hackney, Harvard or Oxford – this is for anybody, just like the devices that are ubiquitous … This is not about me."In promoting British tech, the duke says he "unashamedly" pushes UK tech companies in the US, while telling them to make sure they come back. "It's not wrong to compare ourselves to Silicon Valley but the ecosystems are different. The east coast of the US and London are where the financial capitals are, and the thought process around risk is about financial risk, not entrepreneurial risk." Veteran investor Marc Andreessen, he says, told him that the UK must encourage its own ecosystem and let it grow organically.In the realm of tech startups, almost anything and everything goes – an unorthodox industry that might well appeal to the Duke of York. Even iDEA he describes as operating like a startup. "We have no idea where this is going or where all the pieces are going to come from," he says, gleefully. "We are talking to government because they think we are, perhaps, a little further along in this journey than we actually are, but we want to come up with a solution."This could mean a collaboration between iDEA and the Government Digital Service, the government's award-winning digital design team, to build a site that can show off the achievements of iDEA's young people.The significant cultural challenges of the digital age are not lost on the duke, who talks to the right to be forgotten case. "The law around the postal service grew up very, very slowly, so legislation could keep up with it. But the internet has grown so fast that no legislator can keep up with it. It's going to be an ethics problem far more than a legislative problem, and though 99% of the world's population are ethical, you're going to have to find the very small minority and make sure they use [these services] wisely and correctly."And what of privacy and sharing data with companies who may not be ethical? "You're asking the wrong person, because as a member of the royal family we have already given up our right to privacy, with you guys [the press] around," he said. "It's something that's happening and people are going to have to get used to it."Some of the UK's smartest but lesser known technology companies were exhibiting their products, including Bristol OC Robotics, which manufacturers 'snake-arm robots' for work in confined, hazardous spaces including nuclear decommissioning, and Intelligent Textiles of Surrey, which is working with the US department of defence to develop uniforms that can heat the body, carry batteries or include body armour.Annika Small, CEO of the Nominet Trust, had been battling to gain attention for social projects that use technology to help people and provide new skills. Its Task Squad project matches capable but inexperienced young people looking for work with small businesses who can offer short, paid assignments. Another project, Speakset, adds a video call feature to TV set top boxes which allows the elderly to speak to family, or to services including their GP."We have been trying to build support across the industry, in local businesses that play a key part, with both formal and informal educators and policy makers. We know that there is a real disconnect with today's curriculum, with kids who don't identify as entrepreneurs and often struggle in formal education," she said. "We set a very ambitious target of getting one million young people building digital entrepreneurship skills, but we have to start with the things that interest them – music, fashion and games – and show them that it's not all about programming and coding. These are the arts and crafts of the 21st century." It won't hurt that the steering committee for the iDEA scheme includes Will.I.Am, entrepreneur and model Lily Cole and Michael Acton Smith, founder of the globally successful Moshi Monsters game.Eben Upton said the UK tech industry has a powerful base of high quality engineers and academic research, investment funding and business networks, but that the government could do more regionally."A lot of effort has been put into east London, but there is more that could be done to sustain the regional clusters we already have in Cambridge, Oxford and Bristol," he said. "Those clusters of tech businesses feed into the local economies and are very powerful. "Funding tech startups is what the venture capital firms are for. Instead the government should be funding the infrastructure network, around which startups will be built."• This article has been amended to clarify that Nominet Trust created the iDEA project and to correct the name of the Royal Academy of Engineering
Instagram will start running adverts in the feeds of British users &quot;later this year&quot;, the company says, following a trial in the US with ten advertisers. It will also advertise in Canada and Australia.Instagram says it&apos;s &quot;being very methodical and deliberate&quot; about who is allowed to advertise in users&apos; feeds, and the company has strict rules about what images brands can post. &quot;No text is allowed on ad imagery in Instagram,&quot;for instance, and &quot;Ads should capture &apos;moments&apos;, not products. Ads must not simply be a product shot, in other words.&quot; The company also reassures users that they won&apos;t see the same adverts twice inside the app.Since 2010, Instagram has grown to 200 million monthly active users, and more than 150 million of them have joined since it was acquired by Facebook in 2012 for $1bn.Since launch, Instagram&apos;s users have shared 20 billion photos, and now upload an average of 60m pictures per day. In March this year,the company overtook Twitter in US monthly active users. But with its parent company acting as an umbrella, Instagram hasn&apos;t felt the same pressure as Twitter to go after revenue.&quot;As Instagram builds its business, we’ve put our community first every step of the way,&quot; writes the company in a blogpost. &quot;And since introducing ads last November, we&apos;ve worked with a handful of top brands to draw creative inspiration from the community and create ads that were engaging and felt natural in people’s feeds.&quot;The adverts will follow the same format as in the US: users will see simple image posts, like this from Ben &amp; Jerry&apos;s, in their feed.A Ben &amp; Jerry's ad on InstagramSomewhat oddly, another rule prevents &quot;heavy use of image filters&quot;, preventing advertisers from using the tool perhaps most strongly associated with Instagram in the eyes of the public.Advertisers have enjoyed their access to Instagram users.Industry journal Adweek reportsthat Taco Bell&apos;s Instagram following jumped 45% in its monthlong campaign, and that Hollister saw a third more viewers of its ads for a range of girls&apos; dresses recall the range than those who hadn&apos;t seen the ad.Users themselves were offered &quot;the ability to provide feedback on ads,&quot; the company says, &quot;so we could learn what people liked—and didn’t like—and improve over time.&quot;When the first ad was shown in November, negative reaction wasimmediate, with user comments including &quot;wtf this crap needs to not be on my page, this ads shit&quot; and &quot;since when were there ads on instagram… ugh&quot;. But as the ads continued to come, negative reaction died off, and posts like the Ben &amp; Jerry&apos;s ad, above, rarely receive negative comments publicly.•How marketers use Pinterest and Instagram to win customers
Microsoft has made a major announcement regarding its sci-fi first-person shooter series Halo – and it&apos;s not quite what fans were expecting.While rumours suggested that a special Anniversary Edition of Halo 2 would be revealed at E3 this year, marking the tenth anniversary of the hugely successful sequel, Microsoft is, it seems, several gigantic leaps ahead of its fanbase. At its press conference in Los Angeles on Monday, the company instead announced the Master Chief Collection, a bumper Xbox One release containing every Halo title from Halo: Combat Evolved to Halo 4, all running in HD 1080p.Along with the four games, the package will also include a live-action digital series produced by Ridley Scott, which fills in the story between Halo 4 and Halo 5. Furthermore, Purchasers will get access to a competitive multiplayer beta of Halo 5: Guardians, the latest instalment of the series, due in autumn 2015.Set for release on 11 November, the entire collection is delivered on a single Blu-ray disc. All the original co-op, campaign and multiplayer modes will be included, which means gamers will have over 100 competitive multiplayer maps to fight on. Developer 343 Industries has also added that everything will run at 60 frames-per-second, with multiplayer maps taking advantage of dedicated servers.&quot;Each of the experiences is contained within a single unified user interface,&quot; said creative director, Frank O&apos;Connor. &quot;It will allow you to select any of the levels from any of the games at any difficulty setting in single-player or co-op.We also decided to curate, in a museum fashion, interesting takes on the gameplay. So if you want to play all the Warthog missions consecutively or in any order, that&apos;s a curated campaign playlist that you can select.&quot;Multiplayer is apparently handled in a similar way, allowing purchasers to play custom matches from any game and any mode. &quot;We&apos;ve had to take unique approach to matchmaking,&quot; said O&apos;Connor. &quot;When the maps and the modes come up, players will be able to vote on what they want to play. So if most people select Team Slayer from Halo 2, that will instantly launch, it&apos;s all completely seamless.&quot;Halo 2 remasteredThe collection includes the Anniversary Edition of Halo 2, which has been augmented in a similar style to the re-release of Halo: Combat Evolved, complete with terminals to provide new backstory snippets. &quot;It will have two engines running simultaneously,&quot; said O&apos;Connor. &quot;The original and the Xbox One version of that engine; and you can switch back and forth in the middle of a game, as you could in Halo Anniversary.&quot; Meanwhile, the soundtrack has been re-recorded by the Skywalker Orchestra, and six maps have been re-designed and updated by original multiplayer designer Max Hoberman.&quot;I think the thing we&apos;re most excited about is our new live-action digital series, Halo: Nightfall,&quot; said studio manager Bonnie Ross. &quot;It introduces some new characters and a story that drops you off at the doorstep of Halo 5.It&apos;s a tool that allows us to show how the past and future of Halo are moving together.&quot;Halo fans will remember the previous live-action content, Halo: Forward Unto Dawn. &quot;This is aimilar in format but the scale is much bigger,&quot; said O&apos;Connor. &quot;It&apos;s a standalone story, but it introduces a brand new character who&apos;s going to feature quite prominently in Halo 5 Guardians. It connects the stories in an interesting way, but it&apos;s also more engaged in the current Halo universe than Forward Unto Dawn, which was almost a historical piece, it was showing you the origins of the universe. This is a snapshot of what&apos;s happening right now.&quot;In May, Microsoft announced Halo 5: Guardians, which will take the multimillion selling sci-fi series into the next-gen console era. The new game features series hero Master Chief, an augmented super-solder who saves humanity from an alien aggressor, alone and disillusioned with his past.The new collection is, according to O&apos;Connor, specifically designed to bring gamers up to date with his journey. &quot;It&apos;s kind of a big ask to require players to follow one single storyline through three console transitions,&quot; he said. &quot;It&apos;s always been frustrating that you can&apos;t have the whole story in one place, so new players have an onboard point. But now you can play it how you want. Everything is unlocked.&quot;That&apos;s a huge amount of content. And everything is going to run at 60fps on dedicated servers, and at 1080p; it&apos;s higher fidelity across the board thanks to a number of polish passes we&apos;re taking on the graphics.&quot;According to Ross, fans will notice that not only have there visuals been enhanced, but there is also extra cinematic story content. &quot;Xbox One gives us the ability to create a cohesive, connected experience like we&apos;ve never been able to before. There&apos;s a new prologue and epilogue that seeds the story up to Halo 5.&quot;We think this is a pivotal point in who MC is. If you pay much attention to the Hero&apos;s Journey, MC is really at the very start. He is the augmented hero, but he&apos;s also human - that&apos;s a story we&apos;re interested in. His past plays a critical role in his future, we wanted to think about how we could connect his past to the future. What he thought of his past may be different than what it really was.Although the price wasn&apos;t confirmed during the event, Xbox spokesperson, Larry Hyrb later tweeted that the price will be $60 or £50.•Halo 5: Guardians announced for Xbox One•Halo 5: Guardians – &apos;Xbox One allows things we&apos;ve never done before&apos;
Game of Thrones&apos; gentle giant Hodor, as played by Kristian Nairn, has become one of the HBO show&apos;s best-loved characters. Not least because he&apos;s still alive.Equally impressively, he&apos;s inspired a new one-button replacement keyboard app for Android smartphones:Hodor Keyboard. If you&apos;re familiar with the show and/or books, you can probably guess what that button is.&quot;Be like Hodor. Say Hodor. Hodor hodor hodor. Hodor. Hodor hodor hodor hodor,&quot; explains the listing for the app – which costs £0.59 – on the Google Play store.It&apos;s part of a category of apps designed to replace the default keyboard on Android devices. The most popular, like SwiftKey and Swype, use a mixture of gestures and predictive-text technology to provide smarter typing.Hodor Keyboard? Well, it replaces every letter or word you might want to type with Hodor (or, indeed, HODOR or hodor).&quot;Long press for maximum Hodor. Swipe left to unHodor a Hodor. Swipe right to delete a character (make sure you delete the ones everyone loves first!)&quot; explains its listing.&quot;Extra bonus: If your passwords are Hodor, this is by far the fastest way to log in.&quot;Hodor Keyboard for Android.WithApple soon allowing keyboard-replacement appsas part of its iOS 8 software, it&apos;s highly likely Hodor Keyboard will be appearing on its devices in the autumn too.Hodor Keyboard isn&apos;t an officially licensed Game of Thrones app, but the TV show and the series of A Song of Ice and Fire books that it&apos;s based on have spawned other apps in recent years.For the books, there&apos;s Random House&apos;sGeorge R. R. Martin&apos;s A World of Ice and Fire – A Game of Thrones Guideapp for Android and iOS, providing character biographies, interactive maps and artwork – as well as spoilers to avoid finding out who kills who ahead of wherever you&apos;ve read up to.There&apos;s also an official game,Game of Thrones Ascent– released for iPad and Facebook by Kongregate and developer Disruptor Beam. It&apos;s a strategy game claiming more than 3.5m players scrapping it out within the world of Westeros.Game of Thrones was recently namedthe most popular show ever on US network HBO, averaging 18.4m viewers an episode in its fourth season. It has found a large global audience too, through a mixture of broadcast deals, DVD sales and piracy.Martin, meanwhile, is currently working on the sixth book in the A Song of Ice and Fire series. While his plan is to wrap the saga up in seven books, there has recently beenspeculation that it might stretch to eight.•The 50 best Android apps of 2013•The 50 best Android games of 2013
Russian authorities say two people from Moscow have confessed to a &quot;ransomware&quot; attack on a number of Apple device owners, mainly in Australia, during May.Anofficial statement(Bing translation,Google translation) on the Russian Ministry of Internal Affairs website says that the duo, who live in the capital, hatched the scheme, which they carried out first by creating a &quot;phishing&quot; site to collect iCloud logins, and then locking the devices.People in Australia woke up to find a message on their iPhone, iPad or Mac saying &quot;Device hacked by Oleg Pliss&quot; and that to unlock it they should pay a ransom of $100. Some users in New Zealand, the US and UK were also affected.The attack was carried out by using the &quot;Find my iPhone/iPad/Mac&quot; feature of the iCloud system. This lets users log in to any web browser and locate their devices if they are connected to the internet. They can also make the device display a message, and lock it and, if they wish, wipe its data.Apple had said only that the attackwas not a break-in to its iCloud system, and that the affected users&apos; login details must have been compromised elsewhere. It has not released figures on how many people were affected, though data from Australia and Apple&apos;s discussions boards seem to suggest that dozens were hit by it.The two perpetrators - who were not named, but who were said to have been born in 1991 and 1998, which would make them about 23 and 16 - also confessed to another scheme, where they would connect a new device to a hijacked iCloud account, and then use it to acquire large amounts of media such as music and shows – which they then advertised for sale online. One of those arrested had previously been tried on hacking charges, the ministry said.During the raid on the hackers&apos; apartments, police seized computers, sim cards and phones that they said were used for illegal activities, as well as &quot;literature on hacking computer systems&quot;.The Russian Ministry of the Interior Affairs said that there were different groups who were trying to carry out similar attacks.Russia has been a centre for a number of criminal hackers, with organised crime sometimes involved in schemes to break computer security systems around banks and other high-profile organisations.•Apple&apos;s WWDC: expect a bigger iPhone - and bigger ambitions
Every time a report on the cost of cybercrime is released it is met with intense scrutiny from within the security industry. McAfee&apos;s latest report is no different.Worldwide losses stemming from cybercrime have hit £266bn a year, according to the report. The company also claims that while a conservative estimate would measure the losses at £223bn, they could be as high as £342bn – between 0.5% and 0.8% of global GDP, just below the illegal drug trade&apos;s 0.9%.Yet there are various reasons to question these figures. The first concerns the dataset used by McAfee for the predictions. The company itself notes that “any dollar amount for the global cost of cybercrime is an estimate based on incomplete data”, before putting a dollar amount on it.Rather than solely focusing on the amount of money criminals made from their exploits, the McAfee study involved collating publicly available data from individual countries, alongside information gleaned during interviews with government officials and experts. Much of this was anecdotal data.McAfee took all this information and used various methods to determine a range of estimates. They differed wildly. The £266bn figure was determined from aggregating costs as a share of regional incomes, which meant taking the percent of GDP that was lost to cybercrime from countries researched and added them up.Another method took the loss of high income countries and extrapolated that out to reach £342bn. The third and final calculation took the total amount for all countries where it could access open source data, which was again extrapolated to hit £223bn, the lowest estimate.McAfee said none of these approaches were “satisfactory”, and admitted that putting a figure on the cost of cybercrime is difficult when many countries aren&apos;t recording costs effectively.In one case, the company was told losses in the EU hit $16bn, while another put losses at close to a trillion dollars.To remedy this, the research took conservative estimates from countries in which they had low confidence in the data. Countries with no reporting (for example Argentina) were left out.Yet the report even noted its estimates could have been overstated due to the variations of loss and the difficulty of valuing intellectual property, but claimed the anecdotal data it had suggested otherwise.“If anything, data on crimes related to the theft of ‘intangible’ sources of value suggest it is more likely that we have underestimated the threat,” it added. Indeed, much of the claims in the report are based on “intangible” stats.The addition of “indirect costs” to the estimates also confuses matters. Those costs include the money spent by breached businesses on security products to stop future digital attacks. They also include reputation recovery, such as the provision of free services (often this includes credit monitoring) for customers after a breach and PR costs.Given these indirect “losses” actually put money back into the economy, thanks to funds spent on products from the cyber security industry, which isestimated to be worth in excess of £100bn per annum, and on specialist consultancy firms that help with so-called “cyber resiliency” and response, the overall economic damage should be drastically reduced.“Almost all the cost of security is the indirect cost, rather than what the bad guys get away with. That means what you spend with McAfee and their friends,” said Ross Anderson, professor of security engineering at the University of Cambridge.“So you have the delicious irony of the security industry warning the world in tones of feigned horror that its turnover is excessive.”The £226bn figure is therefore misleading. But it shouldn’t detract from the growing menace of cybercrime, which is undoubtedly causing individuals and businesses pain.US retailing giant Target has suffered greatly as a result of an attack that leaked more than 40 million customer credit card details. Not only has it seen the departure of its CEO and its chief information officer, it saw earnings drop 46%.Cryptolocker, the ransomware that locked up people’s files and demanded payment before being disrupted by law enforcement this month, was said to have made its criminal creators more than $30m (£18m).As McAfee noted, much cybercrime also goes unreported - another reason the dataset for the financial estimates was lacking. “Data breaches are a global phenomenon. Sure we hear about the largest ones, or those in our own country, but this is happening the world over,” explained Raj Samani, CTO in EMEA for McAfee.•Queen&apos;s Speech proposes life sentences for serious cyberattacks
Name:Eugene Goostman.Age:13.Appearance:just an ordinary 13-year-old boy from Odessa.He looks like a cartoon.Take my word for it – he's&nbsp;a real boy.How do you know?I've talked to him. Nice kid.What's he done?Hepassed the Turing Test. Officially he's the first ever to do so, anywhere.That's amazing for someone so young! And what&nbsp;is&nbsp;the Turing Test?It's a challenge first put&nbsp;forward by computer pioneer Alan Turing in 1950, which is considered by many to be the benchmark for establishing artificial intelligence.But what did Eugene have to do to win it?Turing proposed that if a computer program could convince 30% of the people who interrogated it through an interface that it was human, then the computer could be said to be&nbsp;thinking.So Eugene Goostman isn't really real.Thirty-three per cent of the folks who had a keyboard chat with him thought he was, and that's good enough for me.Thirty per cent of Americans think the Bible is literally true. It doesn't make it so.Five machines were tested at the Royal Society in London on Saturday, and Eugene won. Ergo, he's real boy, just like Pinocchio.OK. What's he like?His dad's a gynaecologist, and he's got a hamster.He told you all this?No, that's just part of the "personality" he was given by his "parents".His "parents"?Yes – Vladimir Veselov and Eugene Demchenko, who first "gave birth" to "Eugene" in 2001. He's been entered in a number of Turing Tests in the past.Wow, so he really is "13".True, but they chose the age at the outset. "Our main idea was that he can claim that he knows anything," said Veselov, "but his age also makes it perfectly reasonable that he doesn't know everything."I wonder what Eugene would say about all this.He said, "I feel about beating the turing test in quite convenient way. Nothing original."That's not terribly convincing, I must say.He's Ukrainian, remember?That's just cheating.Some people claim it violates the spirit, if not the letter of the test. Others say the test has been passed before, in 1972, and others say it values trickery over intelligence.Do say:"Hi Eugene! Are you for real?"Don't say:"My kid could do that."
Minecraft&apos;s creator, Notch, has revealed his newest commercial game (sort of), Cliffhorse, in the process giving cryptocurrency Dogecoin its biggest platform yet (sort of).Cliffhorse gives players control of a horse on a cliff, and gives them a horse-sized ball to push around which uses the same skin as the horse. That&apos;s… pretty much it. It is a very silly game.&quot;The entire thing is a joke,&quot; explains Markus Persson, better known as Notch, the creator of Minecraft. &quot;It&apos;s about two hours of work in Unity, using standard and free assets. But maybe being a joke is ok?&quot;&quot;The game started out with me hanging out in PewGeminiLive&apos;s livestream of a blind Skyrim playthrough, where I kept referring to the game as Cliffhorse because of the sometimes funny horse physics. People in the chat asked me to make that game, I said sure, and a couple of hours later, Cliffhorse was done. It&apos;s basically Big Rigs, but there&apos;s a ball, and you&apos;re a horse.&quot;But Notch, put the game on Twitter, he also asked users who want &quot;early access&quot; to the game to send him Dogecoin.Buy Cliffhorse &quot;early access&quot; by sending Dogecoin here DMbE53XpM3RR4cnHnVoTPZzjBUwHogdYBe then downloading herehttp://t.co/dBagZctq3w&mdash; Markus Persson (@notch)June 7, 2014&quot;I was going to just release it to the people in the chat, but by the time the game was done, the stream had stopped,&quot; Notch said, &quot;so I made a joke about &apos;early access&apos; and accepted payments through Dogecoin, a crypto currency that has a definite joking edge to it. All the things referenced are things I love, and things that take things a little less than serious.&quot;Gamers don&apos;t have to send Notch Dogecoin to play Cliffhorse, but enough people have thathe has received more than $100 in donations– which makes it his first commercial game since Minecraft was released in 2009. It went on to sell more than 35m copies across all platforms.&quot;Somehow, my first commercial game after Minecraft ended up being Cliffhorse. Hopefully that will take some pressure off my next game,&quot; Notch added.Taking voluntary donations for a joke game is hardly a killer role for Dogecoin, but it underlines its reputation as the fun cryptocurrency.Unlike bitcoin, whose supporters are increasingly likely to be working for a Wall Street bank or preparing to declare themselves immune from the government, Dogecoin&apos;s fanbase seems to be mostly made up of people who like the idea of doing things likesponsoring a Nascar driver,sending the Jamaican bobsleigh team to the olympics, or just paying a video game developer a few cents for a ridiculous game about horses and cliffs.•Minecraft – 36 times larger on PS4 and Xbox One
Luxury fashion retailer Net-a-Porter has announced it will sell a selection of a new limited edition Diane von Furstenberg Google Glass collection in the US, making Net-a-Porter and Mr Porter the first third-party retailer of the wearable tech item.Can the designer who introduced the wrap dress into millions of women&apos;s wardrobes give Google Glass the style makeover it needs?“I have always been fascinated by technology and as a brand, DVF embraces technology,” says von Furstenberg, commenting on the collaboration. “It is a very natural fit for us and we are delighted to be on the forefront with Glass.”It&apos;s not von Furstenberg&apos;s first dalliance with the smartglasses.Glass made its catwalk debut during the American designer&apos;s spring/summer 2013 runway showin New York. Models strutted down the catwalk wearing Glass, recording video footage of the show, while Google co-founder Sergey Brin sat in the front row alongside the likes of Sarah Jessica Parker.A model wearing Google Glass in the Diane Von Furstenberg spring/summer 2013 runway show in New York. Photograph: Andrew Kelly/ReutersNeither is it the first time that Google has attempted to make Glass more stylish - although this is its first collaboration with a fashion designer. This year, it was announced that Google would be teaming up with Ray-Ban maker Luxottica, though the new styles would not be available until 2015.This month, Net-a-Porter will start selling a limited number of the DVF Made for Glass optical and sunglass styles, consisting of five new frame designs and eight new shades. The full collection will go on sale on theGoogle Glass site. Meanwhile men will be able to choose from three styles within the Titanium collection, which will also go on sale on 23 June on Mr Porter.One of the styles from the Titanium collection which will go on sale on Mr Porter on 23 June. Photograph: Mr PorterBut the styles don&apos;t come cheap. Prescription lenses from the premium collection will set you back $1,725 (£1,026) while sunglasses will cost $1,620 (£964). It was announced in May that a consumer version of Glass is expected to go on sale to the general public at the end of 2014 butfans in the US are able to buy a pair for $1,500.“We are thrilled to offer Glass to our tech-savvy customers who are true leaders and innovators in style and lifestyle,” said Natalie Massenet, founder and chairman of the Net-a-Porter Group, who also expressed excitement in the online retailer bringing Google Glass to their US customers months ahead of the global consumer release.•Wearable tech, but would you wear it?
Mario Kart 8has been out in the UK for a few weeks now, leading to alarge increase in salesfor the Wii U console. It&apos;s even seen the birth of its own meme: the Luigi death stare, a celebration of the lesser-heralded Mario brother&apos;s ice-cold reaction to the administration of shell-based justice.I spent the weekend getting to grips with the latest Mario Kart iteration, sunny weather eschewed in favour of relentless four-player action.Early impressions are positive. The karts drive, glide and slide like a dream, andas our review points out, the new weapons are a satisfying addition. And there are little pleasing tweaks that make logical sense: if you plunge off the course into a cute ravine,lakitureturns you to the track much more efficiently than before, power-up boxes reappear a touch more quickly, and there is now a means of combatting the blue shell. At last.Whacking juanpenguino  in Mario Kart 8https://t.co/q9CAHb7ug5&mdash; James Walsh (@jamesofwalsh)June 8, 2014And, as theLuigi death stareindicates, the end-of-race highlights (which you can edit and upload to Youtube) are an absolute joy. We almost enjoyed watching each hit, in glorious high-def slow-mo, as much we enjoyed playing the game itself.As many have mentioned, the only bugbear is battle mode, which now takes place on the standard courses rather than ready-made arenas, and this is a real step backwards. &quot;I can&apos;t find anyone,&quot; and &quot;it&apos;s taking ages, isn&apos;t it?&quot; were standard responses when we tried it.Now it&apos;s over to you. How are you finding Mario Kart 8? Is it the best one, or do you still pine for the SNES or the underrated Game Cube versions? Share your thoughts - and links to your own killer videos, if you&apos;ve made any - in the thread below.•Mario Kart 8 review - the best drive ever?
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps and games to have emerged on Apple&apos;s App Store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for Android apps instead, browse the archives of the weeklyBest Android Appsroundups.APPSWorld in Motion: England’s Story (£2.99)It&apos;s that time again, when despite nearly four years&apos; reminding ourselves why England won&apos;t win the World Cup, the football-loving bits of the country tip headlong into delusion once more. Some handy context to help you cling on to your pessimism may come with this, an app telling the last 60 years of England&apos;s World Cup history.iPhone / iPadOrange is the New App (Free)Not binge-watched your way through the second series of Orange Is The New Black yet? Lightweight... Released on 6 June by Netflix, which commissioned the prison drama, it also has an official app for iOS that &quot;lets you be Alex&apos;s little spoon, rock a sweet pornstache and show your love for your favourite Litchfield ladies&quot;. Which translates as a neat promotional photo-sharing app.iPhoneNYT Opinion (Free + IAP)This is the new app from the New York Times, promising to gather &quot;the world&apos;s most compelling opinions all in one place&quot;. Well, the ones published in the New York Times, obviously, plus a curated feed of views from other publications. It&apos;s free to download with up to 10 articles a month viewable, then it charges £3.99 a month for full access.Full details from The Guardian&apos;s longer piece here.iPhoneModio (Free)&quot;Modio enables anyone to build, modify and 3D print amazing models using a desktop 3D printer,&quot; explains the App Store listing for this. Which means everyone without access to a desktop 3D printer – i.e. most of us – will have to content ourselves with the building part. Even so, Modio is both powerful and fun to use, with a range of parts to slot together to make your own characters.iPadGlastonbury Festival 2014 (Free)Going to the Glastonbury Festival later this month? As ever, there&apos;s an official app for that – like last year, this comes from sponsor EE. Expect stage times and a schedule-planning feature, live streaming from the BBC, and maps of the festival site. And this being 2014, rest assured there&apos;ll be charging points to ensure you can use the app beyond lunchtime on day one.iPhoneMorito: Inspirational Tapas and Mezze (Free)Mmm... tapas. This app from book publisher Random House has been made based on recipes from London restaurant Morito, with 24 to try and some sumptuous food photography to whet your appetite. Timer and shopping list features make it useful when planning and cooking meals, while the step-by-step instructions are clear and helpful.iPhone / iPadDTS HP:X Soundgarden Superunknown 20th Anniversary (Free)Something to make music fans of a certain age (i.e. an old one) feel old: grunge band Soundgarden&apos;s &apos;Superunknown&apos; album is 20 years old. To celebrate, it&apos;s getting this new app, which plays the remastered version of the album in DTS Headphone:X sound. What&apos;s that? 11.1 surround sound from regular headphones, apparently. But you do need to buy the actual album to get a code to unlock the full app.iPhonePreggie – Pregnancy Chat (Free)The latest social networking niche is here: a &quot;mobile social network for pregnant women&quot; – essentially an app to complement whatever social networks mums-to-be have in the real world (from friends to NCT groups). Preggie promises to help you see what people near you are chatting about, answer questions and generally get support.iPhoneHeart and Lungs Lab (£1.99)This is a smart educational app for children from 5-14 about the human body&apos;s respiratory and circulation systems. They can get a close-up look at diagrams of the heart and lungs, experiment in six virtual labs, and take practice tests to answer questions on what they&apos;ve learned. It follows similar apps on bones and digestion from developer Isygames.iPadNumber Hero: Multiplication (£1.49)Another children&apos;s app, this time from Ravensburger. Pitched as &quot;an exciting mathematical puzzle for all who love numbers games&quot;, it may appeal to parents as well. The app tasks you with connecting numbers to reach a specific total, scoring you on your abilities. Two modes – one with answers up to 20 and one up to 89 – should suit children of varying abilities.iPhone / iPadBONUS CONTENTThe Guardian (Free + IAP)I didn&apos;t want to deprive someone else&apos;s app of one of the 20 slots in this week&apos;s roundup, so as an extra, check out the just-relaunched Guardian app. It&apos;s been completely reworked with an adaptive design across smartphones and tablets, with the GuardianWitness platform now integrated to help readers submit their own photos, videos and text. There&apos;s plenty of personalisation too, with fully-tweakable homescreen and notifications.Read the full story here.GAMESBubble Witch Saga 2 (Free + IAP)As the comments section to the full review of Bubble Witch Saga 2showed, its publisher King has plenty of critics, angry at its appropriation of existing games (Puzzle Bobble in this case) and the way it pushes in-app purchases. The flipside of this: there are a lot of people who loved Candy Crush Saga, and are enjoying this follow-up: 4.5 stars out of five in the App Store reviews so far. The Marmite of the mobile gaming world, then, but you probably already know which side you belong to.iPhone / iPadRival Knights (Free + IAP)As a teenager, I wasted countless hours trying to master the jousting section in a game called Defender of the Crown (which, naturally, is now available on iOS too). Rival Knights is a thoroughly 2014 reworking of the idea though: a console-style game that sees you unlocking and upgrading horses, weapons and armour, and battling other players over the network.iPhone / iPadPocket Harvest (£2.99)I can&apos;t get enough of the pocket-sized simulation games from developer Kairosoft, even when they&apos;re essentially the same game with a different setting. In Pocket Harvest&apos;s case, that&apos;s farming, as you grow and sell crops, rear animals and indulge in tourism on the side. And if farming isn&apos;t your bag, check out Kairosoft&apos;s takes on football, mall management and even games development among other topics.iPhone / iPadWho Wants To Be A Football Millionaire? 2014 (£1.49)Just in time for the World Cup comes this new football-themed version of Who Wants To Be a Millionaire, with 500 questions and a structure well known from the TV show. In-app purchases are used here too: initially for a new &apos;Ask The Saviour&apos; lifeline when you&apos;re stuck, but there&apos;ll also be new question packs to buy.iPhone / iPadCross Horizon (Free + IAP)This is the latest mobile roleplaying game from Japanese publisher DeNA: waves of monsters, lots of loot and the ability to recruit your friends to fight with your party as you go. It looks very good, although as with all games like this, its long-term fun will depend on how the developer supports it with new content over the coming months.iPhone / iPadCopa Toon (£1.99)More football, but this time from Cartoon Network. It&apos;s a five-a-side sim starring some of the channel&apos;s most popular characters from shows including Adventure Time, Regular Show and Ben 10: Omniverse. Power-shots, online multiplayer and spiffing visuals make it worth a look for children and parents alike.iPhone / iPadWarfare Nations (Free + IAP)Billed as &quot;Advance Wars meets Metal Slug&quot;, there should be something here for experienced gamers. It&apos;s a strategy game that sees you building troops and resources to take part in turn-based battles, including online against other players. Early indications are that it&apos;s very fun, although time will tell how the in-app purchase element affects the gameplay.iPhone / iPadMotor Madness (Free + IAP)The time management genre applied to being a mechanic, here, as you send cars round the garage fast enough to avoid annoying their impatient owners, balancing the different jobs on hand and avoiding collisions.iPhone / iPadGlowGrid (Free + IAP)Finally, a relaxing puzzle game to play, with an 80s soundtrack and lots of glowing neon graphics. The gameplay involves matching tiles, with a time-based Panic Mode complemented nicely by a more zen Casual Mode. 10 levels are free, then a single in-app purchase unlocks the rest of the game.iPhone / iPadKiwaka (£1.99)And one more children&apos;s app this week: Kiwaka, which turns its attention upwards to the stars. It&apos;s part lesson and part game, really: kids catch fireflies in the game part to reveal stars, then learn about the myths behind those constellations. It&apos;s accompanied by aseparate storybook app too, with the European Space Agency involved to ensure scientific accuracy.iPhone / iPadThose are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on iOS this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best new Android apps and games to have emerged on the Google Play store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest Android Appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for iOS apps, browse the archives ofBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups instead.APPSPowerDirector – Video Editor (Free + IAP)CyberLink has just launched Android and Windows tablet versions of its video-editing software. As long as you have a compatible tablet – the caveat here is that I don&apos;t, so haven&apos;t been able to try it yet – you can import your videos, add photos, audio tracks and various effects, then export them at up-to 1080p HD quality.Orange Is The New App (Free)Not binge-watched your way through the second series of Orange Is The New Black yet? Lightweight... Released on 6 June by Netflix, which commissioned the prison drama, it also has an official app for Android that &quot;lets you be Alex&apos;s little spoon, rock a sweet pornstache and show your love for your favourite Litchfield ladies&quot;. Which translates as a neat promotional photo-sharing app.Glastonbury Festival 2014 (Free)Going to the Glastonbury Festival later this month? As ever, there&apos;s an official app for that – like last year, this comes from sponsor EE. Expect stage times and a schedule-planning feature, live streaming from the BBC, and maps of the festival site. And this being 2014, rest assured there&apos;ll be charging points to ensure you can use the app beyond lunchtime on day one.Soundgarden (Free)Something to make music fans of a certain age (i.e. an old one) feel old: grunge band Soundgarden&apos;s &apos;Superunknown&apos; album is 20 years old. To celebrate, it&apos;s getting this new app, which plays the remastered version of the album in DTS Headphone:X sound. What&apos;s that? 11.1 surround sound from regular headphones, apparently. But you do need to buy the actual album to get a code to unlock the full app.Go To Rio: Travel Guide &amp; Photos (Free)Go to Rio? There must be something happening there. You&apos;d think the media would have covered it... Anyway, if you are finding yourself in the famous Brazilian city in the near future, this app may come in handy: a tourist guide to the sights of Rio, with photos, videos and tips from the Go To Travel Guides editors Nat and Mase, plus other useful travel information.Music4Kids (£2.18 + IAP)Something for children now: a colourful app that teaches kids how to write and play music on their Android device. The main mode gets them to trace their fingers on the touchscreen to create tunes, but there are also 140 challenges to flex their nascent music-making muscles.Hodor Keyboard (£0.59)HODOR. Hodor hodor hodor. Hodor. Hodor hodor hodor. HODOR. Hodor hodor hodor. Hodor. Hodor hodor hodor. Hodor hodor hodor. Hodor. Hodor hodor hodor. HODOR.More Hodor on this Hodor can be found Hodor.Type Your Ringtone Pro (£0.59)Finally, a simple utility that gets you to, yes, type your ringtone. Which is to say get your phone speaking to you as a ringtone by tapping in a message, then saving it to associate with specific contacts, as well as notifications for specific apps.BONUS CONTENT (1)The Guardian (Free + IAP)I didn&apos;t want to deprive someone else&apos;s app of one of the 20 slots in this week&apos;s roundup, so as an extra, check out the just-relaunched Guardian app. It&apos;s been completely reworked with an adaptive design across smartphones and tablets, with the GuardianWitness platform now integrated to help readers submit their own photos, videos and text. There&apos;s plenty of personalisation too, with fully-tweakable homescreen and notifications.Read the full story here.Kiwanuka for Android.GAMESKiwanuka (£1.79)In an increasingly-long line of delightful mobile puzzle games, Kiwanuka is one of the best. It sees you guiding a colourful collection of characters to freedom using a glowing staff: like a neon-infused Lemmings built for touchscreens. File alongside Monument Valley in this year&apos;s games-worth-paying-for pile.Bubble Witch Saga 2 (Free + IAP)As the comments section to thefull review of Bubble Witch Saga 2showed, its publisher King has plenty of critics, angry at its appropriation of existing games (Puzzle Bobble in this case) and the way it pushes in-app purchases. The flipside of this: there are a lot of people who loved Candy Crush Saga, and are enjoying this follow-up: four-and-a-bit stars out of five on the Google Play store from nearly 45,000 reviews. The Marmite of the mobile gaming world, then, but you probably already know which side you belong to.Hitman Go (£2.99 + IAP)This new mobile incarnation of the Hitman franchise doesn&apos;t take the form you might expect: Hitman Go takes Square Enix’s action game and turns it into a grid-based puzzler – although assassination remains your goal. Its “scale-model style” graphics work very well, and the puzzles are well-crafted.Dragon Quest VIII (£13.99)Square Enix&apos;s latest retro remake is Dragon Quest VIII, which first came out in the mid-2000s. It&apos;s a faithful port for Android in 2014, with a few modern touches to ensure it passes muster on current devices. It&apos;s expensive, yes, but fans of the franchise will enjoy wallowing in nostalgia.Rival Knights (Free + IAP)As a teenager, I wasted countless hours trying to master the jousting section in a game called Defender of the Crown (which, naturally, isnow available on Androidtoo). Rival Knights is a thoroughly 2014 reworking of the idea though: a console-style game that sees you unlocking and upgrading horses, weapons and armour, and battling other players over the network.Prime World: Defenders (Free + IAP)It wouldn&apos;t be a weekly Android roundup without a brand new tower defence game, and Prime World: Defenders looks well-placed to continue the genre&apos;s strength on Android. Here, the schtick is that the core towers/weapons gameplay is spiced up with card-collecting features, as you build up your forces.Cross Horizon (Free + IAP)This is the latest mobile roleplaying game from Japanese publisher DeNA: waves of monsters, lots of loot and the ability to recruit your friends to fight with your party as you go. It looks very good, although as with all games like this, its long-term fun will depend on how the developer supports it with new content over the coming months.Wordbase (Free + IAP)Now something a little less hardcore – or perhaps more hardcore in its own way. Wordbase looks like a wordsearch puzzle, but it adds a competitive spin: you&apos;re spelling words to make your way towards an opponent&apos;s base: &quot;The ultimate vocabulary smackdown,&quot; as the Google Play listing puts it. Power-ups add to the fighty fun.Cybergon (Free + IAP)Cybergon is the work of developer Robot Invader, which made the excellent Wind-Up Knight games on Android. This has more of a Tron feel, as you guide your Cybergon craft through futuristic networks picking up glowing blue &quot;Intel&quot; and avoiding deadly cyberviruses. It looks like fun, twitchy gameplay.Firefly Runner (Free + IAP)Another popular Android gaming genre – endless runners – gets a new game from developer Red Kite Games. Here, you&apos;re playing Switch, a firefly who rather than bimble around in the dark, can collect cherries, loop the loop and fire a slingshot. Set in a lush forest world, this is well worth a play.Sky Force 2014 (Free + IAP)Sky Force is actually a famous mobile gaming brand from the days before Android and iOS, but it&apos;s now been rebooted for 2014. It&apos;s a great-looking shoot &apos;em up with bullets, enemies and upgrades galore, with weekly tournaments thrown in to show you how great (or not) you are compared to other players.Random Heroes 2 (£0.54 + IAP)Finally, a charming platform game from respected firm Noodlecake Studios, the sequel to the fun Random Heroes. Here, you&apos;re taking on alien invaders across more than 90 levels, with a cute mix of colourful graphics and upgrades to keep you playing.BONUS CONTENT (2)Humble Bundle PC and Android 10If you&apos;re into your Android games, you should definitely check out the latest Humble Bundle for PC and Android, which has a bunch of them. Pay what you like to get Symphony, Draw a Stickman: Epic and Galcon Legends, but if you beat the average price (currently a mere $4.91) you&apos;ll also get Skulls of the Shogun, Metal Slug 3, Breach &amp; Clear, both Fieldrunners games, Frozen Synapse and Ittle Dew.Those are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on Android this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.
Programmers worldwide are preparing to welcome our new robot overlords, after the University of Reading reported on Sunday that acomputer had passed the Turing test for the first time.But what is the test? And why could it spell doom for us all?The Turing Test?Coined by computing pioneer Alan Turing in 1950, the Turing test was designed to be a rudimentary way of determining whether or not a computer counts as &quot;intelligent&quot;.The test, as Turing designed it, is carried out as a sort of imitation game. On one side of a computer screen sits a human judge, whose job is to chat to some mysterious interlocutors on the other side. Most of those interlocutors will be humans; one will be a chatbot, created for the sole purpose of tricking the judge into thinking that it is the real human.On Sunday, for the first time in history, a machine succeeded in that goal.Or a Turing test?But it might be better to say that the chatbot, a Russian-designed programme called Eugene, passedaTuring test. Alan Turing&apos;s 1950 paper laid out the general idea of the test, and also laid out some specifics which he thought would be passed &quot;in about 50 years&apos; time&quot;: each judge has just five minutes to talk to each machine, and the machines passed if more than 30% of the judges thought that they were human. Those somewhat arbitrary, if historically faithful, rules were the ones followed by the University of Reading.It remains impressive that Eugene had 33% of the judges &quot;he&quot; spoke to convinced of his humanity, but the robots still have a long way to go to pass the gold standard of modern Turing tests, using rules laid out in 1990 by the inventor Hugh Loebner.Those rulescall for the computer and a human to have a 25-minute conversation with each of four separate judges. The machine only wins if it fools at least half the judges into thinking it&apos;s the human (though every year there is a &quot;bronze medal&quot; awarded to the machine that convinces the most judges).The hardest Turing test described so far is one set up as part of a $20,000 bet between the futurologist Ray Kurzweil and the Lotus founder, Mitch Kapor. Kapor bet that no robot would pass the test before 2029, andthe rulescall for the challenger and three human foils to have two-hour conversations with each of three judges. The robot must convince two of the three judges that it is human, and be ranked as &quot;more human&quot; on average than at least two of the actual human competitors.How do the robots win?Turing test competitions have been held for more than 20 years, and the strategies the robots employ have changed over time. Where originally the stumbling blocks were simply understanding the questions asked by the judges, now the bigger challenge is in answering them in a human-like manner. In recent years, winners have started changing the subject, asking questions of the judges, and simulating moods and typos.The big breakthrough behind Eugene, the University of Reading&apos;s winner, was in giving the robot the persona of a 13-year-old boy. &quot;Our main idea was that [Eugene] can claim that he knows anything, but his age also makes it perfectly reasonable that he doesn&apos;t know everything,&quot; said the robot&apos;s creator, Vladimir Veselov. It also makes affectations like misspellings look more plausible than they would coming from an &quot;adult&quot;.What does a conversation with Eugene look like?Here&apos;s the transcript of a2012 conversationwith a judge which resulted in them picking Eugene over the human interlocutor on the other side of the screen:[16:11:25] Judge: what music do you like?[16:11:32] Eugene: I like Eminem – because he doesn&apos;t have a thing to do with &quot;polite-correctness&quot;.[16:11:46] Judge: OMG i love eminem, he&apos;s my favourite artist![16:12:00] Eugene: I wonder what Eminem&apos;s nick mean. I associate it only with a word &quot;enema&quot;. But he is a cool guy, I like his &quot;The Real Slim Shady&quot;.[16:12:55] Judge: i know what his nick name means, his real name is Marshall Mathers. From the initials M&amp;M phynetically sounding like Eminem.[16:13:06] Eugene: Eminem is a famous crapper. No, raper... ripper... Yeah, I mean - rapper. I like his &quot;Stan&quot; and &quot;The Real Slim Shady&quot;.[16:13:32] Judge: I like &quot;Hailies song&quot;[16:13:46] Eugene: Interesting tastes. I like science fiction books, by the way. Where do you came from, by the way? Could you tell me about the place where you live?[16:14:22] Judge: Epsom, home of the derby. yourself?[16:14:27] Eugene: My guinea pig says that name Derby sounds very nice.[16:14:41] Judge: i shopuld talk with him sometime[16:14:48] Eugene: I think you should take some typing lessons. Or just type more accurately.[16:15:04] Judge: that&apos;s very rude?[16:15:09] Eugene: Ummm... Frankly, I didn&apos;t get your question:-([16:15:49] Judge: &quot;Ummm&quot; isnt a word. i think you need typing lessons[16:15:58] Eugene: My thoughts are same. By the way, I still don&apos;t know your specialty - or, possibly, I&apos;ve missed it?At the time, Eugene passed 28% of such conversations. Two years on, that extra 5% has made all the difference.Is it time to pledge allegiance to our new robot overlords?Probably not. For one thing, winning a competition by pretending to be a child with gaping holes in their knowledge does not exactly reinforce the idea that machines are something to be scared of.But moreover, chatbots are a fairly limited application of the sort of artificial intelligence which science-fiction authors have been imagining for decades. By having to pretend to be human, they are prevented from being more than human.They still offer new problems and possibilities for the future, from automatic scambots which carry out phishing attacks to customer support algorithms that don&apos;t need to reveal that they aren&apos;t actually a person.But really, these machines say more about us than them. &quot;You don’t write a program, you write a novel,&quot; explain Eugene&apos;s creators. &quot;You think up a life for your character from scratch – starting with childhood – endowing him with opinions, thoughts, fears, quirks.&quot; When the best way to pretend to be human is to imitate our foibles and weaknesses as much as our strengths, the victors of Turing tests will continue to be the least scary output of artificial intelligence research.•What about a musical turing test? Can a robot compose a song so brilliant it sounds like it was written by a human?
From 2001: a Space Odyssey to Her, the idea of an intelligent computer that can hold conversations with humans has long been a dream of science-fiction writers, but that fantasy may just have taken a step closer to becoming reality. On Saturday, a computer algorithm claiming to be a 13-year-old boy called Eugene Goostmanpassed the Turing test, it has been claimed. However,some commentators have suggested that pretending to be a 13-year-old Ukrainian child is not as difficult as pretending to be an Anglophone adult, and that the result should not count.The program convinced 33% of the human judges at an event at the Royal Society that it was actually a human. The Turing test, which was devised in 1950 by the pioneering computer scientist and second wold war codebreaker Alan Turing is a classic benchmark in artificial intelligence –it determines a machine's ability to show intelligent behaviour equivalent to, or indistinguishable from, that of a human.Transcripts of the conversations from the latest Royal Society test are not yet available but below aretranscripts from a previous event at Bletchley Park on 23 June 2012, with the same program.Can you tell Eugene isn't human?Test 1[12:43:37] Judge: Hi, I'm Cathy.[12:43:43] Eugene: Cathy! Nice to meet you! You're a woman, if I'm not mistaken.[12:44:20] Judge: Right. What is your name?[12:44:29] Eugene: People call me Eugene. Or "Zhenya". It is a short name for Eugene in Russia and Ukraine.[12:45:17] Judge: Nice name. Are you from either area?[12:45:41] Eugene: Agree :-) Oh, what a fruitful conversation;-)[12:45:52] Judge: Do you really think so?[12:46:04] Eugene: No, your guess was wrong. I don't think so. By the way, I still don't know your specialty – or, possibly, I've missed it?[12:46:56] Judge: What speciality? What's yours?[12:47:01] Eugene: Huh? And I forgot to ask you where you are from.[12:47:51] Judge: The universe and you?[12:48:01] Eugene: Is it your hobby to ask little poor Jewish boys such tricky questions they don't have an answer for?In Spike Jonze's film Her, a computer is able to interact with a man so convincingly that he falls in love. Photograph: PRTest 2[16:11:25] Judge: what music do you like?[16:11:32] Eugene: I like Eminem – because he doesn't have a thing to do with "polite correctness".[16:11:46] Judge: OMG i love eminem, he's my favourite artist![16:12:00] Eugene: I wonder what Eminem's nick mean. I associate it only with a word "enema". But he is a cool guy, I like his The Real Slim Shady.[16:12:55] Judge: i know what his nickname means, his real name is Marshall Mathers. From the initials M&amp;M phynetically sounding like Eminem.[16:13:06] Eugene: Eminem is a famous crapper. No, raper… ripper… Yeah, I mean – rapper. I like his Stan and The Real Slim Shady.[16:13:32] Judge: I like Hailies Song.[16:13:46] Eugene: Interesting tastes. I like science-fiction books, by the way. Where do you came from, by the way? Could you tell me about the place where you live?[16:14:22] Judge: Epsom, home of the derby. yourself?[16:14:27] Eugene: My guinea pig says that name Derby sounds very nice.[16:14:41] Judge: i shopuld [sic] talk with him sometime.[16:14:48] Eugene: I think you should take some typing lessons. Or just type more accurately.[16:15:04] Judge: That's very rude.[16:15:09] Eugene: Ummm … Frankly, I didn't get your question :-([16:15:49] Judge: "Ummm" isnt a word. i think you need typing lessons[16:15:58] Eugene: My thoughts are same. By the way, I still don't know your specialty - or, possibly, I've missed it?Garry Kasparov versus Deep Blue in 1997. The computer won – an important step in the evolution of artificial intelligence. Photograph: Stan Honda/AFP/Getty ImagesTest 3[16:06:31] Judge: Hi there, do you prefer to wear a dress or trousers to work?[16:06:37] Eugene: I am a scholar. I'm too young to make money.[16:07:32] Judge: What was the last film you saw at the cinema?[16:07:38] Eugene: Huh? Could you tell me what are you? I mean your profession.[16:08:11] Judge: I am an IT manager, and you?[16:08:16] Eugene: Manager? So how is it to work as manager?[16:09:13] Judge: Hard work but rewarding, what do you do?[16:09:18] Eugene: I am only 13, so I'm attending school so far.[16:09:51] Judge: Have you seen teletubbies?[16:10:04] Eugene: No, I haven't seen it, unfortunately. But I hope it is better than these crappy Star Wars. And I forgot to ask you where you are from …[16:10:15] Judge: Brighton, and you?Best-case scenario? Friendly, intellectually curious robots like Johnny Five from Short Circuit. Photograph: Moviestore Collection/Rex FeaturesTest 4[14:59:33] Judge: Hello, what is the weather like tomorrow?[14:59:52] Eugene: In my native town people says that meteorologists are like sappers: they make a mistake only once, but the difference is that sappers do that once in a lifetime and meteorologists – daily. Do you like weather today?[15:00:13] Judge: Why do birds suddenly appear?[15:00:24] Eugene: Just because 2 plus 2 is 5! By the way, what's your occupation? I mean – could you tell me about your work?[15:00:38] Judge: Yes, I am a doctor. Are you healthy?[15:00:46] Eugene: Well, so tell me about your work. I think – doctor is a nice specialty![15:01:18] Judge: It is ok, I get sick of sick people. How is your stomach feeling today? Is it upset maybe?[15:01:26] Eugene: I think you can't smile at all. I bet you work in a funeral agency.[15:01:36] Judge: What do you work as?[15:01:41] Eugene: I am a scholar. I'm too young to make money.[15:01:56] Judge: I see, what school do you go to?[15:02:07] Eugene: I attend an ordinary school in Odessa, my native city. Its number is 28k, if it makes any difference to you.[15:02:24] Judge: it doesn't. What is your favourite subject?[15:02:35] Eugene: It's hard to decide. Where do you came from, by the way? Could you tell me about the place where you live?[15:02:56] Judge: I come from Manchester. Did you see the jubilee?[15:03:02] Eugene: Could you invite me to Manchester? I would be so grateful. :-)[15:03:17] Judge: Did you see the jubliee?[15:03:27] Eugene: Try to guess! Actually, I don't understand why you are interested. I know you are supposed to trick me.[15:03:35] Judge: Not really[15:03:40] Eugene: Not really? Why? What are any interesting site-seeings in Manchester?[15:03:59] Judge: Lots of nice things. Do you like football?[15:04:04] Eugene: Does anyone hate it? Some another topic?[15:04:18] Judge: Will you be watching the football on Sunday?[15:04:23] Eugene: I play sports sometimes. On computer. But I prefer racing.Worst-case scenario? Evil robots replace band members to try to stop the creation of a utopian society, as in Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey. Photograph: The Kobal CollectionTest 5[15:46:05] Judge: My favourite music is contemporary Jazz, what do you prefer?[15:46:14] Eugene: To be short I'll only say that I HATE Britnie [sic] Spears. All other music is OK compared to her.[15:47:06] Judge: do you like to play any musical instruments[15:47:23] Eugene: I'm tone deaf, but my guinea pig likes to squeal Beethoven's Ode to Joy every morning. I suspect our neighbors want to cut his throat … Could you tell me about your job, by the way?[15:48:02] Judge: Guinea pig? Are you an animal lover[15:48:08] Eugene: Yeah. A nice little guinea pig. Not some annoying chatter bot.[15:48:50] Judge: Do you live with anyone else?[15:48:59] Eugene: Yes I do. But better ask something else. And I forgot to ask you where you are from …[15:49:39] Judge: Ireland. Geen pastures and too much rain! How about you?
Last year it was all about the hardware. E3 2013 was a gladiatorial arena, a bloody combat zone where Sony and Microsoft duked it out over their next-generation consoles.But now those machines are out on the shelves and selling in their millions. PlayStation 4 may be a good distance ahead of Xbox One, but the latter is fighting back with price cuts and tempting exclusives. Now the emphasis shifts away from technical specifications toward the one thing that really matters. The games.Meanwhile, Nintendo may be down with its poorly selling Wii U, but it certainly isn&apos;t out. And thanks to the continuing success of the Steam platform, as well as the rude health of the indie sector, the PC is as important as ever.Last year&apos;s E3 was a bruising face-off; this year&apos;s could be a more intriguing competition, where the future of games comes sharply into focus.So for now, here are the key trends and showdowns we&apos;re expecting.PlayStation 4 vs Xbox One – round two: the exclusivesMaster Chief returns in Microsoft mega-exclusive, Halo 5The two consoles have been out for seven months, but gamers have been largely underwhelmed by the first wave of titles. Now it&apos;s time to show what these machines can do. Expect Sony and Microsoft to concentrate on the return of core franchises. For PlayStation that means Uncharted 4 and God of War 4, and for Xbox, Fable: Legends, Forza Horizon 2, Halo 5 and quite possible a next-gen Gears of War courtesy of new series developer, Black Tusk. There may be a few original titles to throw into the mix. It&apos;s rumoured that Dark Souls creator From Software is preparing next title, apparently codenamed Project Beast, for PS4 only.As for Xbox, we already know about Insomniac&apos;s colourfulSunset Overdrive. But we may see something from Microsoft&apos;s London-based Lift Studio. &quot;E3 is a massive opportunity for Microsoft to change the conversation around Xbox One in a positive way,&quot; says Tom Bramwell, editor of Eurogamer. &quot;Hopefully new Xbox boss Phil Spencer will focus on games, games, games, although I think Xbox fans would like to see a bit of humility and contrition would as well after an awful 12 months.&quot;•Halo 5: Guardians announced for Xbox OneThe rise of offshoots and side-projectsKevin Spacey looks to bring class and drama to Call of Duty: Advanced WarfareWe&apos;re seeing a lot of very mature &quot;franchises&quot; these days, some of them looking extremely fatigued – but notsofatigued that they can be retired to the old video game&apos;s knackers yard. Hence, Battlefield: Hardline, which takes the long-running shooter series and turns it into a cops-and-robbers blaster. There&apos;s also Sledgehammer&apos;s Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which pits the player against a private military contractor, and theBorderlands &quot;pre-sequel&quot;, which tells the backstory of Borderlands 2. Basically, this is what Square Enix has been doing with the Final Fantasy series foryears– it&apos;s about maximising the revenue from those hardcore fans who just won&apos;t let go.•Kevin Spacey to star in Call of Duty: Advanced WarfareThe search for the next big shooterEvolve – asymmetrical co-op battle against a player-controlled monsterSo while Call of Duty and Battlefield trade familiar blows like aging prizefighters, the hungry new kids are coming through, looking to be this generation&apos;s hot contender. The fascinating &quot;asymmetrical&quot; multiplayer hunt-&apos;em-up Evolve is at the head of the pack, but there&apos;s also the third-person free-to-play 32-person melee fighterBattleCryfrom Bethesda and the brash, cartoon style indie blasterLoadoutfrom Edge of Reality, which is also free-to-play, but this time on PS4. On the more cerebral front, there&apos;s Ubisoft&apos;s much-touted tactical co-op shooter,The Division.•Evolve previewNostalgia strikes backOddworld: New N Tasty returns us to the dark platformer seriesAfter the feisty newcomers, we have the bruised veterans back for one last shot at glory. There&apos;sHomefront: The Revolutionfrom Crytek&apos;s UK studio, of course, as well asOddworld: New N Tastyon the Sony Stand, and Mortal Kombat X from Warner. There are hopes for a return of the cult open-world favourite Crackdown and/or Rare&apos;s much-loved Perfect Dark. If Microsoft wants to prompt lapsed gamers into buying Xbox Ones, this would be a smart way to do it.Nintendo has to dosomethingSuper Smash Bros – coming to Wii U this winterSo the Big N has no press conference this year, but it will be making announcements as well as showing of the Wii U instalment of multiplayer combat caper, Super Smash Bros. Of course, what everyone wants to see is a brand new Zelda adventure, especially after the luscious Wind Waker update, but it could just as easily be a new Super Mario adventure. Whatever, the company simply has to capitalise on the recent success of Mario Kart 8, and that means a major new odyssey for Link or Mario. &quot;I&apos;d expect – or rather hope – that Nintendo will have a few Christmas 2014 games to announce,&quot; says Chris Dring, editor of industry news site, MCV. &quot;But are we going to have a busy Christmas like you&apos;d expect the year after two console launches? Or are we going to have to wait until 2015?&quot;Indie remains in the spotlightDevolver is bringing the Japanese pigeon dating sim Hatoful Boyfriend to Europe – AT LASTSony and Microsoft won&apos;t just be chucking multimillion dollar super-franchies at each other – for the past year they&apos;ve also been attempting to seduce the entire indie development community with their self-publishing platforms and &quot;come on guys, let&apos;s hug&quot; approach to business. Both will no doubt be heading to theIndieCade showcaseto catch promising offbeat treats like musical adventureFRACT OSCand experimental writing gameElergy for a Dead World.Meanwhile, boutique publisher Devolver has some intirguing stuff to go alongside its obvious hit, Hotline Miami 2. Pixellated shooterNot A Herofrom Roll7 and the pigeon dating sim,Hatoful Boyfriendlook interesting. Oh and as a reposte to the military shooter genre,This War Is Mine, about civilians struggling to survive during an armed conflict, looks thought-provoking – and rather out of place amid the E3 jingoism.The rise of co-op and local multiplayerSunset Overdrive – bringing colour and eight-player co-op to the shooter genreMario Kart 8 has made everyone excited about playing against each other in the same room, and we may well see a few titles following it – or at least doing interesting things with group play. Sunset Overdrive is set to have eight-player co-op, while the latest Assassin&apos;s Creed adventure, Unity, will have four-player co-op assassination missions. Also, expect other titles to take Destiny&apos;s lead into the seamless Campaign/multiplayer crossover. Single-player is so dead right now (I&apos;mjoking).The rise of spaceDestiny – Bungie's space opera is set to revive interest in galactic adventureSerious space games peaked in the early 1990s with the excellent Star Wars flight combat sims, then sort of drifted away, like George Clooney in Gravity. They&apos;re back now though. Destiny is the big hitter, of course, but E3 will also see a new build ofElite: Dangerousas well as a fresh demo of Hello Games&apos; ambitious procedurally generated exploration sim,No Man&apos;s Sky. Oh and EA has its little Star Wars games, of course.EA will have a good yearMirror's Edge 2 – the futuristic escape game is back, and hopefully not making people feel as sick this timeThe last couple of Electronic Arts press conferences have been rather lacklustre affairs, the corporation relying on its trusted big hitters. This year, it&apos;ll have at least one, maybe two Star Wars titles: Battlefront from Battlefield creator Dice, and something else from Visceral. It may also tease Mass Effect 4 and Mirror&apos;s Edge 2. It&apos;ll have Fifa 15, of course, and Dragon Age Inquisition, and then there&apos;s the potentially franchise-saving Sims 4, which promises complex emotional AI to bring the successful but creatively stalling life sim back into the fold. Not a bad slate, really.•The Sims 4: how composer Ilan Eshkeri brings emotion to the screenVirtual reality becomes an actual realitySony's Project Morpheus virtual reality headset for PlayStation 4. Will there be an Xbox One rival? Photograph: Jeff Chiu/APThe now Facebook-owned Oculus Rift will be at the event, showing off new demos, no doubt. However, the big question is whether Sony will be making a fuss of its own virtual reality headset, Project Morpheus. Announced at this year&apos;s GDC, the device looks slick and works well, and we may even get a release date this week – although it&apos;s more likely we&apos;ll just get a few new teaser trailers.Actually, that&apos;s NOT the big question, really. The bigger question is whether Microsoft will announce its own VR device to compete with Sony and Oculus. The company isrumoured to be working on oneand a sassy E3 reveal would change up the agenda of the whole show.Having written that this E3 is going to be all about games, the whole thing could be virtually hijacked if two or more VR machines come face to helmeted face on the show floor.That&apos;s the beauty of this event. Although it&apos;s an aging traditionalist, still glorifying the old school business of triple A boxed games and mega-corp publishers, it can pull out the odd firecracker now and again.&quot;It&apos;s easy to knock E3 for being out of touch with the wider games industry it&apos;s supposed to represent,&quot; says Bramwell. &quot;However, for me, E3 is about the unique adversarial pageantry of the console games industry and on that basis it&apos;s still essential entertainment.&quot;•Oculus Rift – 10 reasons why all eyes are back on virtual reality•Sony&apos;s Project Morpheus brings virtual reality to mainstream console gaming
So Google has decided to provideend-to-end encryptionfor any of its Gmail users who wants it. One could ask "what took you so long?" but that would be churlish. (Some of us were unkind enough to suspect that the reluctance might have been due to, er, commercial considerations: after all, if Gmail messages are properly encrypted, then Google's computers can't read the content in order to decide what ads to display alongside them.) But let us be charitable and thankful for small mercies. The code for the service is out for testing and won't be made freely available until it's passed the scrutiny of the geek community, but still it's a significant moment, for which we haveEdward Snowdento thank.The technology that Google will use is public key encryption, and it's been around for a long time and publicly available ever since 1991, when Phil Zimmermann createdPGP(which stands for pretty good privacy). From then on, anyone who really wanted to communicate securely could have used PGP. The problem was (and is) that it's technically fiddly and you have to know what you're doing. And the persons with whom you wish to communicate securely also need to know what they're doing, and have PGP software installed at their end.Public key encryptionis one of the great inventions of the 20th century. At its heart is a simple idea – that while it's trivially easy to multiply two very large numbers together, it's computationally very difficult to factorise the resulting product – ie to deduce what the original two numbers were. Each user has two large numbers, which serve as keys – one kept private, and the other made publicly available to anyone who wishes to communicate with him or her.PGP is terrific, but user-friendly it ain't, which is why most internet users balked at deploying it. The result was that the world's electronic communications flowed back and forth on media that were about as confidential as seaside postcards, thereby making it trivially easy for snoopers, both official and unofficial, to do their dastardly work. Google's plan is to make PGP user-friendly by incorporating it as an extension in its Chrome browser so that encryption (and decryption) are never more than a click or two away.In principle, it's a great idea. We will have to see how it works in practice. Users will still have to manage their private keys, both in terms of keeping them secret and being able to locate them when needed. So the private-key problem will become like our current password problem, but on steroids. At this stage, nobody has any idea of how many Gmail users would want to use encryption, and one cynical way of interpreting the initiative is that Google is betting that it will only be a minority, so that itsAdsensebusiness will therefore be largely unaffected by it. If that turns out to be the case then the company will be able to claim – justifiably – that it is doing good (or at any rate, not being evil) without incurring any significant financial downside. Neat, eh?As I said, we have Edward Snowden to thank for this. His revelations about the vulnerability of the internet to surveillance has stimulated many people to recalibrate their assumptions about how the online world should be configured. All over the place, engineers like the guys at Google have been working out ways of building serious encryption into every device and channel on the internet to reduce the vulnerabilities inherent in a system that was originally built for a community of trustworthy researchers.The aim of the engineering community is now to put enough cryptographic treacle in the works to make the effortless superiority of the NSA et al a thing of the past. From now on, the spooks will really have to work for their money.Underpinning all this is an assumption that if engineering ingenuity succeeds in making mass surveillance much more difficult (and expensive), then the spooks will have to become more focused – and therefore more susceptible in the end to democratic oversight and control.I hope this assumption is correct, but I wouldn't bet on it. There was a time when we believed that PGP gave us immunity from surveillance. Technology trumped politics, we thought. And then along came the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (2000) which gave the home secretary the power to demand that you handed over your encryption keys or face two years in jail. And all of a sudden, technology didn't look so omnipotent. The encryption extension for Google Chrome will likewise be wonderful. But it won't stop agents of the home secretary from – lawfully – demanding your private key. And then we'll be back to square one. We need not just technology, but new and better laws.
Imagine playing Mario Kart in the real world using miniature, artificially intelligent robotic cars with real personality and their own weapons.Launching on Monday in the UK, the Anki Drive racing game was created by robotics experts using the same principles as Google&apos;s self-driving cars. One player can race others cars that control themselves, responding and adapting to the real player.“It sits at the intersection of toys, video games and mobile devices,” Boris Sofman, co-founder and chief executive of Anki, told the Guardian.“We wanted to kick off this new category of entertainment where we can programme a video game on top of physical characters in the real world for the first time.&quot;Anki Drive app. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianAnki Drive is an advanced slot car racing game that uses an artificial intelligence (AI) engine in its remote control - which is an app for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch.But Anki Drive is much more than a toy. Sofman and Anki’s two other founders, Mark Palatucci and Hanns Tappeiner, are graduates from the Robotics Institute at Carnegie Mellon University, where the startup was jump started in 2008 during their doctoral research projects into machine learning, AI, robotics and self-driving cars.‘A situation that’s not vastly dissimilar to what Google is doing’AI and player cars all controlled from the iPhone app, which adds sound effects, vibration feedback and visual cues as weapons fire and affect your car. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe technology is similar to Google&apos;s software for self-driving cars, which has to identify objects and entities in the real world. Beyond that, the mathematics and computing is very similar.“We’re doing motion planning in a 2D space and thinking about the four-dimensional problem of lateral position, forward position, speed and time, to figure out how to sneak up behind you and use a weapon or ability to cause mischief, but it’s the same family of algorithms Google is using,&quot; said Sofman.Google's new self-driving car prototype, which minus the expensive sensor mounted to the roof, uses technology similar to the Anki cars. Photograph: ReutersSofman admits he is a fan of the classic Japanese racing game Mario Kart, which resonates in the Anki Drive game.“It’s got this beauty, elegance and simplicity where you can pick it up and play easily and you only need about 30 seconds to figure out the rules of the game.”Mario Kart 8, Luigi in flight. Photograph: AP‘Equivalent of driving down a motorway at 250 miles an hour’The race cars themselves are deceptively powerful, with a 50MHz computer, a camera reading the track and two electric motors, one in each rear wheel.The car senses and interprets the track 500 times a second, correcting and reacting to its changing position and relaying that information back to the smartphone or tablet via Bluetooth.Each car contains a computer, camera and two electric motors. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The Guardian&apos;Corax is like the jerk in the bunch, akin to Wolverine from X-Men&apos;Up to six cars can race on the track together. The robotic opponents know where the player is on the track and can react and adapt, thinking two or three seconds ahead to challenge the player. Each one has their own personality and style: some beat the player using weapons, others cut them up, while others just go faster.Cars on track. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The Guardian“Corax is the most offensive and aggressive character in the game with extra weapons and fire power,&quot; said Sofman. &quot;He won’t let you control him until you’ve beaten him in combat and proven you’re worthy.”Players can visit virtual garages to upgrade their cars or fit more powerful weapons, but have to pay for improvements by winning credits as they win races.Upgrade your car to enhance its speed, agility or weapons system with points won from races. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe pairing of a hardware frame to a software-driven experience also allows the system to be upgraded rapidly without having to buy new components. Since launch in the US in October 2013, Anki has pushed out two major updates, one adding a new racing mode and another adding support for more personality, new cars and new tracks.‘A vision to be ‘the’ consumer robotics company’Anki Drive is the robotics startup’s first product, but the company has ambitions beyond racing games.Anki is exploring using Drive and its robotics platform for education, allowing others to programme on top of the small robots. The company is working with Carnegie Mellon, using its founders’ alumni contacts. It is planning a software development kit, to allow players to send commands from Raspberry Pi computers and other devices.“We have a broader vision to be ‘the’ consumer robotics company, not just on the hardware side but on the AI side,&quot; said Sofman. &quot;Robotics is just an extension of computer science, and when you have something that can sense the environment around it, the next stage is all software to bring it to life.&quot;•Google&apos;s self-driving car - how does it work and when can I ride in one?
Since its launch January 2013, Twitter&apos;s Vine smartphone app has been used to share a wide variety of up-to six-second looping videos. But never from space.Now Nasa astronaut Reid Wiseman has changed that, posting a video shot on the International Space Station (ISS).&quot;1st Vine from space! Single Earth orbit. Sun never sets flying parallel w/terminator line,&quot; he explained in the clip,which he posted over the weekend, sharing it on Vine and alsowith his 67.2k Twitter followers.Wiseman has been tweeting photos regularly since beginning his stint on the ISS in late May: the latest use by Nasa staff of social media, in order to raise awareness of the agency&apos;s work.Fellow astronaut Chris Hadfield had a viral hit in 2013 with a video of his cover version of David Bowie&apos;s Space Oddity, filmed on the ISS. It wasrecently made private on YouTube, after a one-year copyright licence ended.Nasa&apos;s Mars Curiosity rover mission has also been a hit on Twitter, with 1.57m followers on the social network for tweets purportedly sent by the unmanned rover vehicle as it goes about its research.•Nasa Asteroid data contest hopes humans outsmart dinosaurs
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThanks for nothing, jerkface &gt;&gt; ZDNetViolet Blue is none too pleased about Google+ and its policy of insisting on real names, now Vic Gundotra has left:Google's response was that her outing was "user error" — Google blamed her, the user for not understanding the new, confusing integration.After Sorenson's nightmare hit the press,more stories emerged from transpeople who had been outed at the hand of Google+, spanning all the way back to the beginning of 2011's Nymwars.Google+'s appalling, absolute inhuman detachment was probably deemed a necessary price tag attached to the shiny prize of product saturation.In case you're wondering, the "Hangout" feature was Sergey Brin's idea. Gundotra had told 2011's Web 2.0 audience, "He was intimately behind pushing us to make Hangout happen."Google+ embodied the Internet's cardinal sin: It broke everything it touched.Thediscussion on Hacker News is spiritedtoo. The key problem - highlighted by Blue - is that Google+ is no good for handling people who want to have multiple personalities.Babolat tennis racket's sensors measure swing speed, strength &gt;&gt; BusinessweekThe technology in the Play fits in a cigarette-lighter-size package inside the handle, the bulk of which is dedicated to the battery. An array of electromechanical sensors detect the way the racket is moving, twisting, or turning. Another set analyzes the racket's vibrations. "Tennis is a combat sport, so you always want to know how you're doing compared to the guy in front of you," says Eric Babolat, the fifth generation of Babolats to head the company."The first thing I saw [when I introduced the racket] with the kids is that their concentration went up," says Adriana Serra Zanetti, 38, once a top-ranked tennis player who now works as a private coach. "Because they know that everything is being recorded." For adult players, the app offers a series of levels that can be unlocked through regular play, or lost if the racket is left to sit for too long. A dedicated social media network allows users to compare their stats—power, technique, and endurance are combined into a single number called the pulse—with people around the world, including some pros.Can see how that might be attractive for golf players too.Data ghosts in the Facebook machine &gt;&gt; SmethurstSay Alice registers on Facebook and consents to the pillage my address book function. Somewhere in that address book are contact details for Bob. Let's say email and mobile number. The first step is to check if there's a registered account in the system matching those details. If there is then Bob gets suggested to Alice as a possible friend. But if Bob isn't registered or is registered but hasn't supplied those details, Ghost Bob gets createdThe implications are quite weird - Facebook has entire ghost cities of people who haven't yet joined, yet about whom it knows all sorts of things.Safari in iOS 8 uses camera to scan and enter credit card info &gt;&gt; 9to5MacIn iOS 8, Apple has a new feature in Safari that allows users to scan a credit card with the device's camera rather than manually entering the number when making a purchase online.When entering a credit card number into a form online to, for example, make a purchase, Safari already allowed users to quickly select credit cards stored in its Passwords &amp; AutoFill settings. You can still do that, but in iOS 8 you'll now also have the option to select "Scan Credit Card" and snap a picture of the card. Apple then uses optical character recognition of sorts to input the number into the text field in Safari.Clever.David Cameron orders improvement in mobile phone coverage &gt;&gt; FT.comDavid Cameron has ordered ministers to improve mobile phone coverage across the countryside after becoming frustrated about the lack of reception in the often core Conservative-voting territories.Earlier this year, Downing Street asked then culture secretary Maria Miller to draw up plans to boost coverage of A and B roads in rural areas following complaints from senior ministers, say mobile executives."We were requested to meet Maria Miller after complaints from David Cameron and Owen Paterson that calls were dropping," said one. "Apparently this was an issue that grabbed the attention of the cabinet."Perhaps there might be a chance of him noticing slow rural broadband speeds if he were to use the internet in Chipping Norton too.Yahoo! journalist paves the way to stopping viral content &gt;&gt; The Daily BanterSpoiler: article about how David Pogue does Facebook updates and tweets with clickbait headlines and what they mask - and thinks you should too.The hidden costs of switching products in the consumer web &gt;&gt; Tomasz TunguzIn most of the consumer web, I've come to believe switching costs are significantly greater than I ever suspected. A few months ago, I switched my home storage from Dropbox to Google Drive. On the surface, the services are identical, perhaps differing a bit in price. I thought, no switching costs in this market. But transferring the files from Dropbox and uploading them to Google took an entire weekend of file uploads. It was grueling and my wife asked me why I spent all the time to switch for such a tiny gain. Next, I replaced Rdio with Spotify. Both services have for all intents and purposes identical content libraries, but the user interfaces differ which required learning something new and the playlists didn't port. I had to rebuild them from scratch. Again, time spent for a tiny gain.Switching costs in commodity services like search are much lower... but people still generally don't.Microsoft Surface Pro 3 doesn't stand up to MacBook Air &gt;&gt; Re/codeKatherine Boehret used the Surface Pro 3 for two weeks:with its top-heavy build and comparably flimsy keyboard, it's still not nearly as sturdy or comfortable to use for a long time as the MacBook Air.The Surface Pro 3 comes with a pen that works as a fun, quick solution for taking notes. Even when the device is asleep, a click of the pen wakes it, and immediately opens its screen to a note-taking section for quick scribbles. Another click of the pen sends the note off to your Microsoft OneNote account. I did this often, and missed it when I switched back to using the iPad. I also used the pen to play Sudoku, writing directly in my onscreen puzzle, and watching as my handwriting was immediately converted to typed, onscreen digits.But folding the keyboard over and using this thing as a tablet is not an enjoyable experience. Its honking 12in screen feels big and bulky, and with the keyboard, it weighs more than twice as much as the one-pound iPad Air. Take off its keyboard, and the Surface still weighs more, at 1.76 pounds.The feeling that emerges is that the Surface Pro 3 is going to be a hit with people who adore Windows 8; not so with others.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Monday!
Google is planning to flag up search results it has censored following a controversial ruling that allows European citizens the right to demand information on them be erased.The search engine is considering placing an alert at the bottom of each page where it has removed links in the wake of the landmark "right to be forgotten" ruling last month.The decision by Europe's highest court allows people living in Europe to ask for links to "inadequate, irrelevant or no longer relevant" material to be removed from search results, although it will still be available on the original web page.Google has since been deluged with tens of thousands of requests from internet users to take down sensitive information on them sincethe ruling by the European court of justice (ECJ) on 13 May.It is understood Google is planning to flag censored search results in a similar way to how it alerts users to takedown requests over copyright infringing material. For example, a Google search for "Adele MP3" shows that it has removed a number of results from that page after receiving complaints under the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act.Google is also planning to include information about "right to be forgotten" removals in its biannual transparency report, which reveals the number of government requests worldwide to remove material from its search results.Google said last Monday that it had so far received 41,000 requests to take down sensitive material from people in Europe since the landmark ruling, including a politician with a murky past, a convicted paedophile and a man who had attempted to murder his family and wanted to remove links about his crime. Google chief executive Larry Page has said that nearly a third of the 41,000 requests received related to a fraud or scram, one fifth concerned serious crime, and 12% are connected to child pornography arrests.The search company, which launched an online form two weeks ago for people wanting to airbrush material about their past, does not have to comply with every request, but must consider whether removing information is in the public interest.Google has set up an advisory committee to issue recommendations about where the boundaries of the public interest lie in the requests, made up of seven people including its executive chairman Eric Schmidt and Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales.Wales has described the ECJ ruling as censorship and raised concerns that news organisations would be particularly affected because Google is the primary source through which internet users find information. In an interview with the technology site TechCrunch on this weekend, Wales said: "I think the decision will have no impact on people's right to privacy, because I don't regard truthful information in court records published by court order in a newspaper to be private information. If anything, the decision is likely to simply muddle the interesting philosophical questions and make it more difficult to make real progress on privacy issues."In the case of truthful, non-defamatory information obtained legally, I think there is no possibility of any defensible 'right' to censor what other people are saying."Google declined to comment.Jodie Ginsberg, chief executive of Index on Censorship, said: "The fact that Google plans to add 'flags' to search links it has removed does nothing to tackle the fundamental problem with the 'right to be forgotten' ruling - which is the complete absence of legal oversight in this process."We remain deeply concerned about a ruling that opens the door to a censoring of the past without any proper checks and balances."
•Health and home on your phone.Apple unveiled its plans for its iPhone software for the next year complete with Home and Health apps.Apple's Home app promises to automate the house, remotely connecting lights, locks, TVs and washing machines, and make them all controllable via voice, thanks to Siri. Utter the words "it's time for bed, Siri" and it'll switch off all the lights and lock the door without you having to lift a finger.Its Health app wants to be your personal physician in your pocket. Connecting to a plethora of sensors, fitness gadgets and medical devices, the app will collate your biometric data and connect straight to hospitals when a doctor's needed.•Music in every room as easy as working the radio.That's the promise of Pure's new Bluetooth Caskeid, a wireless technology that fires audio around the home between Wi-Fi connected speakers. Stream music to one of them and the system handles the rest making sure your whole house is tunefully in sync.•Fly round the world powered just by the sun.That's the dream of Solar Impulse 2 – a solar-powered plane that took its inaugural flight this week. The plane took off from Payerne in Switzerland and safely returned two hours later. With a wingspan of 72m, which is larger than a Boeing 747 jet, it weighs just 2.3 tonnes with four electric motors powered by solar panels across the wings. More testing is needed, but Solar Impulse 2 should circumnavigate the globe on just sunlight in 2015.•Dyson invented smartglasses 10 years before Google.The British vacuum company revealed designs for a pair of smartglasses designed in 2001 and had a working prototype in 2003, a decade before Google had its Glass. The Dyson "Halo" smartglasses were revealed as one of three shelved projects for the company's 21st birthday. Dyson also designed a filtration system for diesel engines, based on its cyclone technology, and a hydrogen fuel cell, but decided not to release them to the public.
Tern Link C7Price £266Weight 12.4kgThe fold 15 secondsTern bikes are a newcomer to the world of folding – the firm&nbsp;was only set up three years ago, but it's quickly winning friends. Its models are called things like The Simple One, The Versatile One, The Hot Modder. The names refer to the nature of the various bikes but also read like a&nbsp;personality assessment of the future owner. This one is The Basic One. It's well made and durable, with some classy details – the chrome handles, the moulded grips and the off-centre quick release all have a quality feel to them. It has a seven-speed Shimano gear and sturdy aluminium fame, which means it will serve you well as a race-for-the-train job. As it's on the heavy side, you will start to feel it in your legs on a&nbsp;journey of more than several miles or if you live on a hill. But at this price, it's great value (evanscycles.com).Dahon JifoPrice £479Weight 9.4kgThe fold 7 secondsThe LA-based firm's pioneering solution to taking a&nbsp;rigid bike and sawing it in half so it can swivel into something you can carry in one hand has been credited with kick-starting the interest in folding bikes. Since 1982, Dahon has sold more than 2m bicycles and is now the undisputed world leader. All that expertise means the Jifo really does collapse in jiffy: it's just seven seconds from bike to bag. The bike is ultra-compact and very light, which makes it easy to carry once folded. It has a&nbsp;single gear, so it's only really suited for short hops around town, but the upright riding position combined with the tiny 16in wheels make it incredibly responsive to ride. A touch on the pedals and you are flying away from the lights. And don't let its small size put you off – it's as sturdy as a Shetland pony and will take riders up to 105kg in weight (wiggle.co.uk).Brompton S2LPrice £890Weight 10.9kgThe fold 15 secondsIn the opening scene of W1A, Ian Fletcher (brilliantly played by Hugh Bonneville) fresh from delivering the Olympics in Twenty Twelve, is still struggling to fold his Brompton. The bike is now a metaphor for the new nightmare he faces as the BBC's head of values. A&nbsp;YouTube tutorial would have put him right – with the bike if not the Beeb. To ride, the Brompton is an instant hit. Light, agile and strangely addictive, the bike's upright position, long steering stem and super-high seat column means that as you hover above the tiny wheels you feel like a trick cyclist pulling off a clever manoeuvre. Once you have cracked the technique, it folds easily and more neatly than any other bike. In fact the folding becomes a pleasure in itself. Brompton is Britain's largest bike builder. It's as British as the BBC (brompton.com).Airnimal ChameleonPrice £1,999Weight 10kgThe fold 45 secondsThe tiny wheels and shopper-style handlebars of the folding bike mean you have to ride upright, which more or less destroys any sense of aerodynamics. But Airnimal likes to think differently. It makes three models: the all-round Joey, the all-terrain Rhino and this one, the Chameleon. It is an extraordinary hybrid of race styling and folding technology. It has traditional drop handlebars, a 20-speed Shimano 105 groupset and carbon forks. It has skinny tyres and a pain-in-the-ass saddle. It weighs very little and you can ride it like an all-out race bike. Yet it will still fold neatly into the boot of your car. It's expensive and is aimed at serious cyclists. But if you travel for work and long to stretch your legs on unfamiliar roads after endless meetings, this would be an inspired solution (airnimal.eu).Mando FootloosePrice £3,349Weight 21.7kgThe fold 3 secondsThe Mando Footloose is the world's first chainless electric folding bike. It may also be the world's only chainless electric folding bike. It looks like a cross between an exercise bike and an exhibit from an art gallery. There are no gears and there is virtually no resistance on the pedals, as if you are permanently cycling downhill. Pedalling doesn't drive the bike forward – it replenishes a battery through a&nbsp;tiny alternator which then generates electricity to power the automatically geared motor which is hidden inside the sculpted aluminium frame. It takes a while to get used to riding it – and it will take longer to get used to the baffled looks of passersby. Once you do, you'll be happy to sit back and let the bike do the work – it'll cruise at 15mph. But it's as heavy as a bag of golf clubs, so it'll take a strong back to heft it into the boot (justebikes.co.uk).Ninety years of HarleyHappy birthday Harley: 90 years old.In case you forgot about the other type of two-wheeler… Europe's oldest and best-known Harley-Davidson dealership has just celebrated its 90th anniversary. It threw open the doors of its iconic King's Road showroom to passionate riders, vintage bike fans and customisation enthusiasts from across the country.In 1924 FJ Warr opened his motor bicycle repair shop on London's&nbsp;King's Road. That same year he became an agent for the Harley-Davidson Motor Co of Milwaukee, USA, and Warr's Harley-Davidson was born. At that time the flagship of the Harley range was the Silent Gray Fellow, which would have cost a princely £85. Now, with a collection worth more than £2m, the Warr's Museum displays the largest number of historic Harleys this side of America. From the Second World War WL models which inspired the Harley used in 2011 movieCaptain Americato the Model K that shot to fame in the 50s when a young Elvis Presley posed for the May 1956 cover of The Enthusiast magazine, and later for hisReturn of The Rockeralbum cover, they are all here. For the first time Warr's has also revealed some of the unique and innovative custom bikes that have been designed and built by their in-house experts, Kings Road Customs. For more information about Warr's Harley-Davidson and the 90th anniversary celebrations, visitwarrs.com.Capital carsUnder the bonnet: get close to some truly remarkable cars at this week's London Motorexpo. Photograph: Ben BroomfieldLondon Motorexpo, the UK's largest free car show takes place this week (9-15 June) with the seven-day spectacular showcasing some of the most iconic car brands from around the world. Located at One Canada Square and Canada Square Park in Canary Wharf, London's prestigious business and leisure district will be transformed into an indoor and outdoor exhibition space, with organisers expecting more than 400,000 visitors. Motorexpo conveniently provides all those working in, living near and visiting Canary Wharf, plus car enthusiasts from further afield, a chance to see, touch and in many cases, test drive the cars on display. Now in its 19th year, the 2014 line-up includes a mouthwatering collection of high-end cars: the Porsche Cayman GTS, Lotus Evora Sports Racer, McLarens 650s and Aston Martin Vanquish Volante will all be on show as well as Bentley's new Continental GTV8 S. If that is not enough, there will be two F1 cars as well as electric cars and bikes. There's even the launch of the Luxury Mobile Office Company, a novel idea which makes it possible to work in style and comfort when travelling by car. Motorexpo is open daily between 10am and 6pm (11am to 5pm on Sunday 15 June) and it's free to enter. For more details, visitmotorexpo.com.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
It's exactly a year since Edward Snowden's revelations about NSA and GCHQ surveillance began to reach the public domain. As a result, we now know quite a lot about the ways the NSA and its overseas franchises have mastered "big data" technology to hoover up our metadata and monitor our clickstreams (which means, by the way, that there's no such thing as private reading any more – at least for anyone who reads online). But it turns out that all that was just for starters. One of the more recent disclosures isa PowerPoint deck about a GCHQ surveillance programme called Squeaky Dolphin, which suggests that the agencies' appetite for personal data is even more voracious and bizarre than most of us imagined.Squeaky Dolphin (the logo shows a cartoon dolphin armed with a can of WD40) is aimed at "broad real-time monitoring of online activity" – which essentially means logs of the YouTube videos you watched, the URLs you "liked" on Facebook and visits you made to blogs. One of the slides in the deck shows a graph of Facebook "likes" for web pages containing the name of Liam Fox, the former Tory defence minister who resigned under a cloud.Why on earth do the security agencies think they need to try to get inside our minds like this? Are Squeaky Dolphin and programmes like it examples of pathological "mission creep"? Are the NSA and GCHQ doing this simply because they can – because it's technically feasible? Has big data's appetite for data become insatiable?Big data is the Rorschach blot of our times – an incomprehensible shape on to which we project our dreams and nightmares, hopes and fears. It's already shaping our lives and looks like determining our networked future. Huge corporations – who see it as "the new oil" – are already exploiting this 21st-century resource, or tooling up to grab some of the action. And governments have been exploiting it since the turn of the millennium.Big data is an ugly term that covers a multitude of activities. Technically, it refers to datasets that are too large and complex to manipulate or interrogate with standard methods or tools. In practice, the term encompasses a whole spectrum of interpretations: a mindset that is obsessed with quantitative information; an approach to decision-making; a new way – sometimes the only way – of doing some kinds of modern science; a computing technology that combines massive processing power with formidable storage capacity and parallel-processing algorithms; a way of detecting terrorist and criminal networks; a way of building detailed profiles of customers in order to increase the chances of selling stuff to them; and much more. For simplicity, let's call it the Next Big Thing.How did we get here?In the beginning there was no data. Well, nothing we would regard as data anyway. And then in the mid-17th century the word emerged as a philosophical term, as the plural of the Latin word "datum", which means "that is given" – a starting point, something on which you can start to build an argument. It came into its own only when we began to collect information in quantitative form and developed technologies and procedures for processing that information. Computing started, after all, as "data processing".For most of human history, data was scarce, hard to collect and difficult to analyse. As industrialisation gathered pace and the nation-state evolved, vast efforts went into collecting the quantitative information needed to administer a modern democracy. It started with censuses and grew from there. But because we had no technologies for analysing the resulting data harvests in their entirety, we used mathematical tools for summarising their essential features. We called the academic discipline "statistics" and used its fundamental concepts – means, medians, probability distributions, sampling, significance tests, bias etc – as ways of extracting meaning from data. These tools were useful in many ways, but they dealt only in aggregates and told us little about individuals, any one of whom could – as the old classroom adage put it – "drown in a river that was on average only six inches deep".And that was how things stood for the best part of a century. What triggered the seismic shift in our information environment was the advent of the internet in the 1980s, and more particularly, the arrival of the web in the 1990s and the mobile phone revolution shortly afterwards. From then on, data went from being scarce and expensive to collect to being bountiful and cheap to harvest (and store) – provided you had the necessary equipment and were in the right place in the ecosystem. The internet provided a surveillance… er,data-collectionengine of Orwellian dimensions, because everything one does on the network is automatically logged. The web enabled online commerce, which meant that oodles of personal data – name and address, age, gender, credit-card details, purchases and transactions, consumer preferences, interests, hobbies, etc – could be hoovered up by corporations, while software for tracking web browsing provided all kinds of equally interesting data for advertisers. The first generations of mobile phones logged their locations on a real-time basis, but that data was usually accessible only by telecommunications companies, or law-enforcement and security agencies, so we had to wait for smartphones with onboard GPS and consumer apps that revealed location data to complete the surveillance jigsaw.The result was that we have moved with astonishing rapidity from a world in which data was scarce to one in which it is super-abundant. According to theEconomist's Kenneth Cukier, for example, Google processes more than 24 petabytes a day. (A petabyte is 1,048,576 gigabytes.) The question – for both corporations and governments – was how to extract usable information from the torrent of data that was emerging from our networked existence as a kind of exhaust. Industry wanted to know how to "personalise" its offerings to consumers; advertisers wanted to be able to target ads more accurately; security agencies wanted to mine the exhaust to detect terrorists and prevent bad things from happening.And while all this was going on, science became increasingly data-intensive as new instruments spewed out unimaginable amounts of information. The Large Hadron Collider in Cern, for example, produces 15 petabytes of data a year. Telescopes and instruments used by astronomers and astrophysicists are similarly prolific generators of data torrents. The Square Kilometre Array telescope, for example,generates 915 petabytes of dataa day. Other sciences are headed in the same direction. Biology has become increasingly computational: a single genome sequencing instrument generates terabytes of data a week. And so it goes on.Given that there is no way that humans can handle these volumes of scientific, commercial and personal data, machine intelligence is the only way to go. And so technologies for dealing with the challenge have evolved – in the form of clusters of up to 50,000 computers, running specialised parallel-processing software and algorithms for machine-learning, pattern-recognition and other functions. Putting this stuff together and making it work is formidably difficult, which is why big data is, by definition, the province of large, well-financed corporations, research labs and government agencies. And it's also why mastery of the technology confers extraordinary advantages on those who possess it.The dreamVirtually every discussion about big data is suffused with a strange mixture of excitement, evangelism, hype, greed and fear. The excitement is easy to understand because it's clear that, for some, big data really is the new oil. The prosperity of the Googles, Facebooks and Amazons of this world is, after all, largely built on their mastery of the technology. And, at a less stratospheric level, non-technology companies are beginning to realise that failure to analyse the data flowing from their interactions with customers may put them at a competitive disadvantage. In that sense, they are at the same stage as companies were in the early 1990s when it began to dawn on them that perhaps this internet thingy might have repercussions for them.Big data has implications for the way companies make decisions.As Erik Brynjolfsson of MIT puts it: "Instead of relying on a leader's gut instincts, an increasing number of companies are embracing a new method that involves data-based analytics." (ThinkMoneyball, Michael Lewis's account of how a failing baseball team was rescued by relying not on the intuition of the team's talent scouts, but on the data crunched by a Harvard maths whiz.)During the first day of a baby’s life, the amount of data generated by humanity is equivalent to 70 times the information contained in the library of congress. Photograph: Catherine Balet from the series Strangers in the LightIn his research, Brynjolfsson found that companies that use "data-driven decision-making" show higher performance: a study of 179 large publicly traded firms, for example, found that the ones that adopted this method are about 5% more productive and profitable than their competitors. "There is," he says, "a lot of low-hanging fruit for companies that are able to use big data to their advantage."The commercial imperative to take the big data revolution seriously is obvious, though many companies are going to discover thatdoing so will involve some painful decisionsbecause their existing IT systems are too fragmented for meaningful data-analytics to be possible. What's more intriguing is the evangelical zeal with which the non-commercial world views the technology. It's seen as a way not just of discovering new knowledge, but as a way of improving healthcare, tackling poverty, improving governance, revitalising democracy, combating global warming and generally making life better.In this context, a terrific boost came from Google some years agoin a paper published in the scientific journalNature. In it the authors (who were Google employees) explained that Google could "predict" the spread of winter flu in the United States – not just nationally, but down to specific regions – and could do so well ahead of the Centre for Disease Control in Atlanta, which is the official agency for tracking disease outbreaks in the US. (The researchers deduced the spread of flu by tracking and analysing the geographical distribution of search queries such as "winter flu".) The results caused quite a furore among healthcare professionals, who wondered if the search giant had just handed them a powerful tool for epidemiological research.Metaphors that often surface in discussions about the social uses of big data are the microscope and the telescope – both instruments that enabled the rise of new sciences and greatly empowered established ones. Brynjolfsson favours the former. The microscope, invented four centuries ago, allowed people to see and measure things as never before — at the cellular level. It was a revolution in measurement. Data analytics, Brynjolfsson argues, is the modern equivalent of the microscope. Google searches, Facebook posts and Twitter messages make it possible to measure behaviour and sentiment in fine detail and in real time.Alex Pentland, another MIT scientist and author ofa new book on what he calls "social physics", is similarly enthused."The power of big data," he says,"is that it is information about people's behaviour instead of information about their beliefs. It's about the behaviour of customers, employees and prospects for your new business. It's not about the things you post on Facebook, and it's not about your searches on Google, which is what most people think about, and it's not data from internal company processes and RFIDs [radio-frequency identifications – a means of tracking items]. This sort of big data comes from things like location data off of your cell phone or credit card, it's the little data breadcrumbs that you leave behind you as you move around in the world.""What those breadcrumbs tell," he continues, "is the story of your life. It tells what you've chosen to do. That's very different from what you put on Facebook. What you put on Facebook is what you would like to tell people, edited according to the standards of the day. Who you actually are is determined by where you spend time, and which things you buy. Big data is increasingly about real behaviour, and by analysing this sort of data, scientists can tell an enormous amount about you. They can tell whether you are the sort of person who will pay back loans. They can tell you if you're likely to get diabetes."They can do this because the sort of person you are is largely determined by your social context, so if I can see some of your behaviours, I can infer the rest, just by comparing you to the people in your crowd. You can tell all sorts of things about a person, even though it's not explicitly in the data, because people are so enmeshed in the surrounding social fabric that it determines the sorts of things that they think are normal, and what behaviours they will learn from one another."The nightmareWhat's interesting about this little riff is that Professor Pentland doesn't seem to be unduly troubled about the implications of all this – though, to be fair, since the quotes are taken from an interview he gave, it's possible that he gives a more rounded picture in his book. But the general tone of his remarks is pretty typical of big data enthusiasts. Sure, they say, there could be problems, but just look at the upsides – all the cool things we could do if we make intelligent use of all this data. We could have better epidemiology, track infectious diseases in real time, have more effective and responsive neighbourhood policing, provide online tutoring that is sensitive to the needs of each individual student, and so on. What's not to like?Well, of course it's true that we could conceivably have all of those good things and many more besides. The only problem is that they come with a price tag attached: the systematic elimination of personal privacy, which in turn implies the emergence of a society in which surveillance is comprehensive and pervasive. We may be headed in that direction anyway, courtesy of the intelligence agencies and the internet companies, but it's strange to hear sensible, public-spirited evangelists encouraging us down that road too.Then there's the issue of inequality.Technology, as Melvin Kranzberg famously observed, is neither good nor bad. But nor is it neutral either. Big data is a technology for the big battalions, not for the rest of us. It will further increase the power of large corporations and governments, and further disempower the poor and the socially excluded."While massive datasets may feel very abstract," writes Kate Crawford, one of the most perceptive commentators on this stuff, "they are intricately linked to physical place and human culture. And places, like people, have their own individual character and grain. For example, Boston has a problem with potholes, patching approximately 20,000 every year. To help allocate its resources efficiently, the City of Boston released the excellent StreetBump smartphone app, which draws on accelerometer and GPS data to help passively detect potholes, instantly reporting them to the city. While certainly a clever approach, StreetBump has a signal problem. People in lower-income groups in the US are less likely to have smartphones, and this is particularly true of older residents, where smartphone penetration can be as low as 16%. For cities like Boston, this means that smartphone data sets are missing inputs from significant parts of the population – often those who have the fewest resources."Another disturbing thing about the big data bandwagon is its implicit epistemology, which could be crudely summarised by modifying the old Klondike slogan: "There's truth in them thar data". What it boils down to is a naive conviction that the more data you have, the closer you will get to the truth. No more relying on small, potentially unrepresentative samples and misleading averages. Instead the plain, unvarnished truth. This "truth" however, comes in the form of correlations: the discovery, for example, that influenza outbreaks go hand in hand with certain kinds of Google searches. Never mind that Google doesn't know anything about what causes flu. So the knowledge that comes from big data is generally an inferencethattwo things are related, not knowledge ofwhythey might be related. (Or not, as the case may be: it turns out that Google's brief foray into epidemiology came unstuck.A new outbreak of the disease had the search engine completely foxed.)This might not be a problem in the commercial world. For example, it doesn't matter that Amazon's recommendation engine thinks that because I boughtThomas Piketty'sCapital in the 21st Centurybook, I am also likely to be interested in a boxed set ofDownton Abbey(perhaps because I had earlier been searching for books on "inequality"). But itwouldmatter if a collector's interest in, say, French hunting knives led to them being targeted for stop-and-search by the local police. In fact, these kind of "predictive analytics" are already being deployed. Shortly after the Boston marathon bombing, for example, a New York writer'sGoogle searches for "pressure cookers" and "backpacks" resulted in armed cops hammering on her door.In the end, the crippled epistemology of the big data movement may prove to be our biggest problem. Remember that the underlying assumption is that "more is better" – the more data you have, the better your knowledge. But since the world is infinitely complex, that means that the search for more and more data, in ever-finer granularities, is effectively infinite. You can never be too rich or too thin – or have too much data. And this applies in particular to the intelligence agencies, asKate Crawford points out in a brilliant essay, "The Anxieties of Big Data".Like me, Crawford was struck by the Squeaky Dolphin project. "The PowerPoint deck," she writes, "reveals something more specific. It outlines an expansionist programme to bring big data together with the more traditional approaches of the social and humanistic sciences: the worlds of small data. GCHQ calls it the Human Science Operations Cell, and it is all about supplementing data analysis with broader sociocultural tools from anthropology, sociology, political science, biology, history, psychology, and economics."It's tempting to ridicule this project – which demonstrates how the security agency's worries that it might be missing something significant leads it to extend its data-gathering net beyond the boundaries of the absurd. But, in a way, the NSA and GCHQ are simply the creatures of the crippled epistemologies oftheirpolitical masters – who ordered them after 9/11 to ensure that nothing bad ever happened again. Which leaves us with the question: when, despite all this surveillance the next terrible thing happens, what will the politicians do then? How much more surveillance will they demand? And how much more can society stand?
Long feted at game shows, indie titleSportsfriends' four-pack of electronic sports is a delightful, eclectic selection. This true multiplayer experience, which combines a retro visual style and simple game mechanics, requires two to four players in the same room. Friends can play BaraBariBall, where teams attempt to sink a ball in the opposition's water using small characters with limited jumps and time critical attacks, or Super Pole Riders, which offers intentionally counterintuitive bendy vaulting poles as the only means to slide a ball along a wire and score. Completing the set are Hokra – collect and move a tiny square ball to a goal – and themarvellous JS Joust, which ignores the screen entirely. Each player must keep a motion controller still while attempting to move their opponent's, all to a soundtrack of Bach's ‌Brandenburg Concertos. Resolutely peculiar,Sportsfriendsdoes require perseverance and dedication but rewards it with joyfully competitive fun much closer to childhood playground games than video games have been for years.Tomadachi Life3DS, Nintendo, cert: 3Nintendo's most recent console mascot – the Mii – appeals to the narcissist in everyone, andTomodachi Lifeis a socially driven life simulator populated entirely by Miis. Without direct control over events, players exert their divine influence through passively helping, advising and pampering their subjects, helping them to live out their bizarre lives in happiness. Miis can be created locally or exchanged with the global community via QR codes, and the more you import, the stranger the interactions are: expect everything from epic rap battles to marriage and babies, and gamers can share pictures of their shenanigans directly to Facebook, Twitter or Tumblr. Play time is best suited to micro-sessions to ensure the mini-games don't outstay their welcome, and fans ofThe Simsand social networking could do a lot worse than this casual but eccentric time sink.Rupert Higham
Nintendo's most recent console mascot – the Mii – appeals to the narcissist in everyone, andTomodachi Lifeis a socially driven life simulator populated entirely by Miis. Without direct control over events, players exert their divine influence through passively helping, advising and pampering their subjects, helping them to live out their bizarre lives in happiness. Miis can be created locally or exchanged with the global community via QR codes, and the more you import, the stranger the interactions are: expect everything from epic rap battles to marriage and babies, and gamers can share pictures of their shenanigans directly to Facebook, Twitter or Tumblr. Play time is best suited to micro-sessions to ensure the mini-games don't outstay their welcome, and fans of The Sims and social networking could do a lot worse than this casual but eccentric time sink.
Clearly unhappy with the fact that a minute lasts a precise 60 seconds, the temporally anarchicSuper Time Force– at first glance a typical, if visually ornate, 2D platforming shooter – is determined to bend the rules. Its unique hook, then, is the time-travel trick. On first tackling one of the numerous 60-second levels, the odds are insurmountable. A single player alone cannot get far. But that doesn't matter, because a quick button jab allows time to be rewound and a change of character and weapons.Leaping back into the action, players can join forces with previous versions of themselves, fighting together. Layer that up multiple times and a 60-second level can become a 15-minute battle blending considered strategy and reaction-based action, where the player serves as teammate to multiple past versions of themselves. A self-indulgent scripting pace and ungainly learning curve aside,Super Time Forceis a brilliant piece of creativity bundled with irreverent character and a slick retro-fetishist style.
The Internet of Things may be one of the clumsier neologisms to have emerged in recent times, but that has seemingly done nothing to slow its growth. For those unfamiliar with it, the Internet of Things (also known as M2M or machine to machine) refers to an expanding network of interconnected internet-enabled devices. Driven by miniaturisation, the affordability of components such as cheap Bluetooth sensors, and the growing ubiquity of technologies such as Wi-Fi, it is now possible to connect devices in a way that would never have previously been thought possible. While still in its "early adopter" infancy, some estimates suggest that by 2020 there will be in the region of 50bn IoT devices – all talking with one another on a constant basis."Consumers are beginning to realise that this technology isn't an outlandish, futurist concept coming to life fromThe Jetsonsbut in fact can be used efficiently and effectively to solve everyday problems," says Alex Hawkinson, CEO of home automation company SmartThings. "The top-use cases have to do with security, peace of mind and savings. For example, consumers can be notified when a door is opened or there is motion while they're away. They can be notified when there is moisture in the basement and they can programme the lights and heat to turn off when no one is present in the house, which can mean huge energy savings."Already tech giants are getting involved, viewing this as a logical progression from the personal computer and smartphone races of previous decades. At itsWorldwide Developers conference (WWDC)event last Monday, Apple introducedHomekit, an Internet of Things platformthat will co-ordinate various third-party home automation accessories, allowing you to unlock your doors or turn on and off your lights via your iPhone.Google, too, demonstrated its interest bypaying $3.2bn (£1.9bn) earlier this year to buy Nest Labs, a home automation company co-founded by the creator of the iPod. Already well known for its connected thermostats and smoke detectors, Nest is currently investigating a slew of other applications related to the home – everything from health tracking to security systems.This Bluetooth-enabled, Kickstarter-funded toothbrush made by French startup Kolibree will calculate and rate your brushing style, keep track that you’ve found all the right places and provide you with real-time feedback. The firm suggests you can transform otherwise boring dental hygiene activities into a competitive family game.What unites products as seemingly disparate as driverless cars and fitness-tracking wearables such as theJawbone UPis their ability to collect data from, and on behalf of, their users."When people talk about the Internet of Things, they tend to get hung up on the 'things' themselves," says Ian Foddering, chief technology officer and technical director at Cisco UK and Ireland. "Actually, the real value and insight comes from the data that these devices provide. We're just at the tip of the iceberg when it comes to what is possible in terms of data extraction. It's a very exciting time.""Data empowers us," says Renee Blodgett, vice president of marketing and strategy atKolibree, the world's first connected electric toothbrush(yes, really!). "For the first time, we have data on how we brush our teeth, where we brush our teeth and where we need to improve. Before now, we would only get that feedback from our dentist once a year when we have our annual cleaning. Now, we can get that feedback in real time."While marginal gains in toothbrushing might not sound like much, the overall point about the power of big data is certainly valid.Entrepreneur and former Apple employee Mike Grothaus agrees. Earlier this year, Grothaus successfully used a Kickstarter campaign to create SITU, a set of kitchen scales that relays data about nutrition to your iPad. Such was the demand forSITUthat the project received almost 30% of its funding in the first day alone."It's a revolution," Grothaus says of the burgeoning connectivity. "It won't be as flash or obvious as the smartphone revolution, but it will be more profound because it connects everything together."But if the Internet of Things is revolutionary, it is also, in a sense, evolutionary."In the early 20th century, all sorts of devices and objects became electrical," says Rafi Haladjian, founder ofSen.seand an IoT pioneer. "Irons, kettles and washing machines all used to be mechanical; then suddenly this great new technology came along. The same thing is happening today."Smart thermostat: the Nest thermostat in your home learns your preferences and automatically adjusts itself to the correct temperature, enabling users to save money and energy. Connected to a smartphone app, it also lets users control the thermostat when on the go.What differentiates Internet of Things devices from the PCs, tablets and smartphones that came before them is their invisibility. The likes of Kolibree or SITU come with no screen or traditional input device such as a keyboard. "The most profound technologies are those that disappear," wrote Mark Weiser, the chief technology officer of Xerox PARC, in the early 1990s. "They weave themselves into the fabric of everyday life until they are indistinguishable from it."Sometimes, these devices are indistinguishable from the world around them on account of their sheer scale. Fritz Lang's 1927 silent movieMetropolisdepicted the city as one giant organism, and that is now a possibility in the world of hyper-connected cities, in which even the pipes that carry our water and the roads we drive on contain smart components.In other cases, it might be that the technologies are so small that we do not readily see them. The dream of those working in the biotech field today is for physical augmentations that constantly monitor our wellbeing – with sensors and microscopic robots in the circulatory system, tracking blood pressure and scanning for early-stage cancers. While we don't yet have all the details about Apple's work in this area, it seems clear that this is the domain innovations such as the just-announcedHealthKit(and possibly the forthcomingiWatch) will focus on.At the moment, people who choose to track and share their data still represent a minority. But while no one is going to force you to wear a connected device (in most jobs), those who do will become increasingly common – and will be incentivised for it. The car insurance companyDrive Like a Girl, for instance, installs on-board car computers that monitor your driving and offers cheaper premiums to those drivers who prove less likely to have an accident. "We use the latest telematics technology to give girls the fair price they deserve, not because they are female, but because they are safer drivers," the company's website states. "With telematics, they can prove it."Perhaps more intrusive is the idea of an Internet of Things-enabled lavatory, which uses sensors inside the bowl to sample your stool and provide health-related insights. By testing urine, these sensors might be able to detect hormone changes in a woman and advise if she is pregnant. It could similarly look for bacterial infections and suggest whether you can stick to Pepto-Bismol or should seek medical advice. If neither of these sounds enough of an incentive to ditch your lavatory for one with its own Twitter account, you may be in the minority: a recent survey suggested that70% of people would be willing to share data from their lavatoryif this could lead to healthcare savings.In a post-Edward Snowden world, the Internet of Things will raise questions about privacy. Freedom through surveillance is a remnant of George W Bush's America. Now, however, that same ideological stance extends to our gadgets. As always, this isn't a straightforward equation – a panopticon effect in which we are monitored by a faceless watchman and receive nothing in return.IoT devices offer new ways for us to take control of our lives, but also paradoxically cede that same control. It is here that a techno-sceptic likeEvgeny Morozoventers the frame. In his latest book,To Save Everything, Click Here, Morozov takes issue with what he terms "solutionism": the idea that everything from obesity to global warming can be solved with the aid of a few interconnected devices. Viewing self-tracking as the epitome of the "modern narcissistic quest for uniqueness and exceptionalism," Morozov pointedly asks why anyone would want to turn every aspect of their lives into a "temple of surveillance."Will these concerns be enough to put people off using such devices? Concerns have already been raised about the implications of Google's expansion into the IoT field since its purchase of Nest Labs – a byproduct of which would be that the Silicon Valley giant would hold ever more granular data about its users.Beyond this are issues about security – such as what would happen in the event that our devices were hacked by someone with the ability to shut off our water supply, or take control of our cars, or unlock the doors of our houses from thousands of miles away. For those working in the field, however, these are temporary concerns, which can be addressed with the right amount of planning."There is no reason why organisations today should not have a robust end-to-end security policy," says Cisco's Ian Foddering. "It is something that needs to be considered, but I think these are all concerns that can also be addressed today."
I'm in a Volvo, being driven along a busy-ish six-lane highway around Gothenburg by a man named Stefan – a bit casually for my liking. He turns towards me as he chats, not looking at the road ahead. His hands aren't even on the bloody steering wheel. Jesus, Stefan, I thought you were supposed to be into safety around here.Guess what, though? It's OK, because it's not Stefan who's driving. No one is. The car is driving itself.Apart from having "Drive me" emblazoned on its side, and sporting a couple of radar receivers like a cross-channel ferry's, it looks like a normal Volvo S60. But this car is bristling with kit and technology. That radar for one thing, plus cameras, lasers, ultrasound even, monitoring everything around it – the road, road markings, other vehicles, cyclists and pedestrians (though not moose. It hasn't learnt to recognise animals yet, but they're working on that). It's linked into GPS map data and cloud connection, and will be hooked up to local traffic centres. Basically this car has eyes in the front and back of its head. It can see, hear and think. It probably sees dead people, too, though it won't have caused their demise and it still won't see dead moose, I'm afraid, even if it did cause theirs.The project is at the trial stage. I'm not allowed to be in the driver's seat (do they not know who I am?). It has to be Stefan the Volvo engineer. It won't ever really be a driverless car, because the Vienna convention on road traffic says a driver must always be in control of a moving vehicle. Forward-thinking  Sweden interprets this as meaning ready to step in when needed. At present the car can't change lanes without Stefan's input, or join one road from another. Or recognise a moose.But there's no denying that, right now, it is driving itself, and me. And in 2017 there will be 100 of them being (not) driven by normal people along about 50km of road here in Gothenburg. On other roads they have to be driven like any other car.It is a bit weird to begin with, the novelty of seeing the steering wheel turn itself while going along at 70kph. But actually I soon get used to it, possibly because before the drive, another Volvo man, Marcus the autonomous driving director, told me all about the benefits. Safety is number one; 90-95% of crashes are caused by human error, so eliminate the driver and you lose the error. Traffic flow will be improved and there are positive environmental implications. Also, driving is mainly boring. Now you'll be able to do your emails, makeup, Twitter or whatever it is you do instead.OK, OK, I'm sold. This is the (not too distant) future. The right here and now in Gothenburg. I'm still worried about those moose, though.
Jessica Hische, 31, illustrator, and  Russ Maschmeyer, 31, web designerFamous for: anillustrated timeline of their courtshipcirculated as their online wedding&nbsp;invitationJess: We were so pumped about the project and we had so many awesome friends involved that we were like: "People will love this!" I pretty much subsist on the delight of others – it empowers me. And Russ said: "OK fine." Russ is an introvert.Russ:I think Jess is really good at finding out what people are going to respond to.J:I'm not a person who has bizarre tastes and flavours. I feel like I'm a normal person who's delighted by normal things. When we announced we were engaged, people said: "Oh my God, you're going to have the best wedding invitation ever!" I thought if we made the process more collaborative, the pressure wouldn't be so much on me, as on everybody.R:The artworks by our friends on the invitation were wedding presents, actually. The only cost was hosting. So when there was a comment onGawker– "I can't believe these people paid $100,000 to have a website for their wedding" – I&nbsp;was like: "I could make $100,000 from designing a website?"Why did we put all this stuff about our relationship out there? It was just wanting to tell the story of our relationship to our friends who were coming to the wedding.J:Right. It definitely started as a private thing. But as we worked on it, it became something else. I have so many friends who are strangers on the internet. To me, Twitter is just like a chatroom. And I thought: "My Twitters will love this." That made me want to work harder on it.R:Jess has no qualms about sharing all her life.J:Russ has forgiven me for a lot of personal disclosures over the years. I think our story isn't: "Oh, and then we were on a yacht." We have pretty fun lives, I love our lives, but we're not disconnected from reality. We had what was to us a pretty outstanding courtship, but not: "And then he surprised me with a trip to Zimbabwe…"Then the story got picked up by media sites, and people who didn't know us would comment and say things like: "Well, usually, the more elaborate an engagement is the more likely a marriage is to fail." We were getting comments like: "These guys are narcissistic idiots." All of our friends and family were super-supportive.So first of all we had a love fest, and the people involved were so happy with the way we'd used their artwork. And then the trolling began.R: It was like watching a car wreck, because you couldn't look away.J: There was some super-mean stuff and personal attacks. And there would be a difference in the commenters. YouTube's commenters were mostly idiots, while Gawker's were people  who wanted to think of themselves as smart:  they would say the sorts of things you would only&nbsp;say in your head.R: I actually liked and still love that line on Gawker that our wedding invitation was "like two Wes Anderson movies fucking each other". I&nbsp;thought that was brilliant.J: It was good. And actually, what they didn't know at the time is that I'd worked for Anderson. I did the title sequence forMoonrise Kingdom. So when that happened, many of our friends and fans came to our defence.Plus, I'd hired my mother to be my digital secretary because she got laid off a couple of years ago, so she's getting all these emails and she would read the comments and leave her own comments. That was cool.R: I think the trolling took an immediate, visceral toll on Jess, and on me a little bit – but lasting effects? None. It was like, that was unpleasant to watch – but a day later it was like, whatever.J:Gawker asked me to comment.I didn't want to. You have to be an adult and not jump online and go: "You're a dick. You're a dick. You're a dick." Even though youreallywant to.I'm still happy how it turned out. The only thing is that when someone reads that post on Gawker now, our site gets blasted. Once we had $1,000 inexcess chargesto the site. To be billed $1,000 for people to attack us. And Russ said: "You should send the trolls an invoice!" I said: "That's the opposite of what we should do."J: Right. What's the moral? Don't feed the trolls.Brody Ryan, 30, singerBrody Ryan: 'I don’t tend to regret things but I do sometimes think: Dammit, I should have thought that through more.' Photograph: John Lee for the GuardianFamous for: a 16-second video clip viewed more than 1 million times on YouTube (see below). He became known by the hashtag #StarbucksDrakeHandsGuy after sending the clip to 20-year-old model Piper Kennedy. There wereruthless parodies, and Ryan responded with a track called 15 Seconds of Fame.Everybody thinks we met in Starbucks and then I sent the video. The truth is, we've never really met. What happened is I came across her on Tinder. We exchanged information for a little while and then decided to take it to the next step. So I sent her my number and said: "If you'd like to get off the app then feel free." She hooked me up the next day, and I was, like: "Yes!" And we continued the conversation, sending each other innocent photos. She sent me photos of her on a&nbsp;hike, photos of her pets and whatnot.And then I didn't hear from her for two weeks. I left her voicemails and she didn't respond. So&nbsp;I&nbsp;made a flirtatious video.What was I thinking? I let myself be vulnerable so that she would feel more light-hearted about it. I don't tend to regret things but I do sometimes think: "Dammit, I should have thought that through more." She sent the video to a friend named DJ Brock in New York. He posted it on Instagram and then it was suddenly everywhere. Everybody had an opinion.The experience was wild, man. I was being very spiritual over the two weeks prior to this, asking for some opportunity to arise. The day this all happened I slept in till 4pm and it was like life saying: "Get your rest because I'm going to take you on a journey." I got a coffee and a powdered doughnut, like a regular day, and that's&nbsp;when I&nbsp;discovered it all on the front porch, as it were.And thenthe parodies started taking fire. I actually found them humorous. They were laughing with me. And when you saw the celebrities doing parodies people were sidetracked from the cheesiness of the situation.The other funny thing is I had people taking it so seriously. They would send me their videos and ask: "Did I do it right?" I mean, there's no training class on Drake Hands dancing. Maybe I&nbsp;should write a book.Then Piper went on the talkshowInside Edition, and I just didn't recognise her description of what happened.I went on Inside Edition the next day and gave my side of the story. I'd told her agent I'd prefer not to go on the same show as her. I&nbsp;got a text from him saying: "You're an idiot. Just by flirting with my client, you can make her a household name." The show's presenter called me an opportunistic, talentless loser and those are hard words for such an innocent video.After that, it seemed like everybody wanted a piece of me. The exposure has been a positive, though I was a little annoyed that a lot of the parodies were sent to DJ Brock's Instagram account, so he gained 7,000 fans and I got 2,000.I got a lot of haters, but I also got a lot of people saying forget them, and that has sustained me. With my management team, I'm trying to steer all this so I'm not a gimmick for the rest of my life. What did I learn? I guess I learned that you really never know about people. I'd say I'd be cautious in future, for sure. I'm still not getting the following I should have, though.Maria Kang, 33, mother, businesswoman and fitness bloggerMaria Kang, with her sons: 'It's weird to have millions of people hating you. But it was great when millions more posted on my side.' Photograph: John Lee for the GuardianFamous for: posting a picture of herself wearing workout bra and shorts, with her three children, with the headline: What's your excuse?I've hada Facebook pagededicated to fitness for a long time, and I wanted to inspire my followers. Why does that matter to me? Because my mother had diabetes, a stroke and a heart attack before she was 50. She always had time to watch her favourite soap opera.For a while I was overweight and I struggled with bulimia. I've personally battled against that by working out and making better choices about what I'm eating. I've learned that it takes discipline, consistency and hard work, and I took that message to my Facebook page.I got apicture taken of me with my three sons– they were eight, three and eight months old at the time. I take my kids everywhere so they can see that I work out and the choices I make. In the picture, I'm wearing micro shorts and a sports bra and you can see my midriff.I knew the image was going to have an impact, but I guess the picture wouldn't have gone viral had I not put that headline on it. You see that catchphrase everywhere, so I didn't think it was a big deal. But it got something like 16 million views and 183,000 likes, probably more now.When all the negative stuff started appearing, it made me mad. They said I was "obnoxious" and a "fat-shaming bully". It's weird to have millions of people hating you. But it was just great when millions more started posting on my side. Someone said: "No need to apologise to the fat slobs out there who don't know how to put down their forks or spoons and get some exercise."I'm not a mean person. So I posted a reply to the haters, saying you have to take responsibility for your body – maybe what I said pushed a few buttons for you. I wanted to tough it out rather than roll over, and also to explain myself. I saw one comment that said: "People like you who post pictures like this make me cry because without surgery I will never look like you."  I don't know that person, but there's a lot of entitlement out there, and some people are saying that you don't have to work to achieve.  I'm saying you do.I've been doing a lot of interviews since then.  I went on theTodayprogramme in America, which is a big deal. Do I have any regrets?  Not at all. I learned that passion can take you a long way. The picture is still there on my Facebook page, but maybe I'll be more careful about what I post in future.
In 2009, when he was barely 25 and his net worth was a mere $2bn,Mark Zuckerbergdelivered what remains possibly the scariest line of the social media age. When you're usingFacebook, he told his biographerDavid Kirkpatrick, "you have one identity… The days of you having a different image for your work friends [and] for the other people you know are probably coming to an end… Having two identities for yourself is an example of a lack of integrity." Orwellian as that might sound, Zuckerberg was really only expressing the emerging Silicon Valley consensus: henceforth, life would be lived entirely in public.It's long been conventional wisdom in the tech world that nobody got rich betting against Facebook. Yet since the start of this year, a cluster of new apps has spread rapidly by attempting exactly that, offering anonymous ways to share the secret stuff we'd never want linked to our names: the shameful confessions, private fears, suppressed desires and malicious gossip. Their names evoke dark alleyways and lips placed close to ears: Whisper, Confide, Secret, Sneeky, Backchat, Rumr, Truth."Social networking has changed the way we socialise – we've lost the ability to be open and vulnerable with one another, because we're always worrying about the permanent record," Chrys Bader-Wechseler told me recently. The 30-year-old sounded a little bleary: he'd been up until 5am that day overseeing the worldwide rollout ofSecret, the app he co-founded, which works by accessing your phone's contacts, so you know the confessions you're reading are from your friends, or friends of friends. (It went live in the US in January, and soon attracted $8.6m in venture capital.) "We want to lower the bar," Bader-Wechseler said, "so that friends can let themselves be vulnerable again." The day I installed Secret, someone whose number is stored on my phone wrote: "Whenever I'm tempted to cheat, I think about my son, and how much a broken family would hurt him." I knew the person who'd written it, but I didn't know who'd written it; the combination was to prove highly addictive.By inviting us to communicate anonymously – not just the trolls, or people with specific reasons to stay incognito – the new generation of apps has launched a real-world test of a puzzle that goes back toPlato. When our identities are concealed, do we automatically degenerate into amoral, foul-mouthed bullies? Or, freed from the pressure of maintaining a flawless public facade, might we discover new ways to relate to one another with compassion and honesty?Admittedly, the indications so far aren't especially promising. The most obvious applications of online anonymity are cyberbullying and abuse;YikYak, which launched late last year and claims 250,000 users, has already been blamed for at least two evacuations, one lockdown and much general chaos at American high schools. The app uses geolocation to broadcast anonymous "yaks" to the 500 physically closest users, effectively making it the nuclear-weapons version of a message scrawled in a toilet cubicle. (In Alabama, two teenagers were charged with making terrorist threats after announcing plans for two separate school shootings via YikYak; the company has now "geo-fenced" the locations of 180,000 US schools, in an effort to make it unusable.) Meanwhile, the biggest splash made so far byWhisperwas a message posted a month before Gwyneth Paltrow and Chris Martin's "conscious uncoupling" – naming the entertainment lawyer with whom Paltrow was allegedly conducting an affair. (Her publicist denied it.)Even Secret, where things tend to feel more grown-up, has drawn the censure of several prominent venture capitalists, not normally the kind of people to spurn money-making opportunities on ethical grounds. "It's gossip. Slander. Hateful. Hurtful," wrote one of them,Mark Suster. "It's everything the Valley claims to hate about LA, but seemingly are falling over themselves at cocktail parties to check five times a night." In April, technical problems brought Secret to a halt. A headline onTechCrunch.comread: "Secret App Down For Hours, Silicon Valley Goes Back To Work".It's hard to deny that non-anonymous social media – Facebook, above all – have created an irksome pressure to maintain a consistent, upbeat, ultra-competent public persona at all times. As a new psychology study seems to argue every other week, Facebook contributes to the sum of human misery, by exposing us only to the highlights reel of other people's lives, making us feel dissatisfied or unworthy by comparison, and fuelling a competitive urge to portray an even sunnier facade. Or, asMontesquieuput it: "If we only wanted to be happy it would be easy; but we want to be happier than other people, which is almost always difficult, since we think them happier than they are."The result is a "game of one-upmanship that's never-ending," says Neetzan Zimmerman, who recently joined Whisper fromGawker. "When you're on Facebook and a friend says 'I have a baby!', you're immediately forced to produce a baby as well, and then that baby has to do something amazing first. Your life must look basically perfect, but beneath the surface you're dealing with the emotional issues that everybody has. There's no room for that on Facebook. You&nbsp;can't both have a perfect life and say: 'Hey, I&nbsp;have a number of illnesses', or: 'My wife left me.' Because you've built this identity for yourself that you cannot expose to the light."There are further problems, such as the phenomenon of multiple social circles: what 13-year-old is going to speak candidly on Facebook when their parents and possibly grandparents are on it, too? Another is the way that past indiscretions are never past any more. (Might British politics have taken a different course if there'd been Facebook photos of Nick Clegg setting fire to a cactus as a student in Germany in the 1980s?) "Ephemeral" services likeSnapchat, on which shared pictures and video vanish after a few seconds, are a direct reaction to the discomfort this causes.'On Facebook and Twitter, for all the sense of performance, there are certain constraints on our showing off: we might want to be noticed, but we also want to look accomplished, and either respectable or cool' Photograph: PAIt's overwhelmingly in Facebook's interests to have all our messages and snapshots, our purchase history and reading lists, linked to a single and genuine identity: that's the way to make a fortune from targeted advertising, and it's the reason the firm is so vigilant in deleting what it suspects are fake accounts. But it's much less clear that it's inourinterests. Critics tend to talk about anonymous and ephemeral apps as if they're a radical and generally sinister development: witness the media panic over Snapchat sexting. Yet it's just as plausible to argue that it's Facebook's undiscriminating publicness that's the radical thing. Before the internet, we navigated multiple, shifting levels of privacy with barely a thought. Now that's harder than ever. But haven't there always been some things we needed to say without everybody knowing we said them?TheRing of Gyges– as any first-year philosophy student who's not too busy exchanging dirty jokes on YikYak ought to know – is a mythical invisibility device featured inPlato's Republic. Would anyone behave decently, the book's characters wonder, if nobody could see them? Glaucon, Plato's brother, is gloomy on the matter: "No man would keep his hands off what was not his own, when he could safely take what he liked out of the market." Socrates has a more optimistic view: we're happier when we do the right thing, so we'd soon learn to behave ethically, even when unseen. But the short history of the internet has tended to bolster Glaucon's case. "Any app or tool that enhances anonymity will contribute to the general feeling of a disinhibited space where actions and behaviours don't carry consequences," arguesElias Aboujaoude, a Stanford University psychiatrist and author of the 2011 bookVirtually You: The Dangerous Powers of the E-Personality. The web comicPenny Arcadesummed things up more pungently in what it termed The Greater Internet Fuckwad Theory, expressed as a simple formula: "Normal Person + Anonymity + Audience = Total Fuckwad".Yet the Greater Internet Fuckwad Theory may not be quite correct. The "online disinhibition effect", as it was formally named in 2004 by the psychologistJohn Suler, is more about online behaviour in general than anonymity specifically. Suler's work described how people become more abusive towards those they can't see, or who are physically distant from them – even when the aggressor's identity isn't hidden. Furthermore, he argues, we often approach cyberspace as a separate dimension, where the usual rules don't applyThe truth is that, when people do don the cloak of anonymity on Whisper or Secret, they seem far more likely to slip into the language of the confessional, or the therapist's couch, than of the poison pen letter. The platforms are full of personal disclosures, sometimes searingly intense, more often just marginally embarrassing:My baby boy passed away recently I saw his picture today and cried. I cried because I love him and miss him. I'm a guy, so no one thinks to talk to me.I still feel tempted to go the wrong way on escalators.I work in a six-figure job and hate almost all the people in my industry as soulless drones.My 13-year-old makes me cry almost every day. She talks to me like I'm a piece of shit.That embarrassing moment when you mean to call&nbsp;someone from the toilet but you Facetime them&nbsp;instead."I do personally believe that basically people are good," says Bader-Wechseler of Secret. "Having this raw, uncut stream of thought from other people forces you to self-reflect, and you have this feeling – or at least this is how it feels for me – of connection. It's a very introspective, personal experience." On the new anonymous apps, in contrast to some older services such asAsk.fm, there are no stable identities at all, even fake ones: each post is a one-off, unlinked to any others, so there's less incentive for users to try to acquire trollish reputations using pseudonyms.That said, the relative absence of malice is also down to strenuous efforts to rein it in, not least because the companies' expansion, and potential future income from advertising, depend on it. Since your posts come from your phone, your number can be banned if you overstep the mark; Whisper employs more than 120 human moderators to comb its messages for abuse. Whisper tries to detect if you're entering a proper name, and will&nbsp;only let you continue if it's the&nbsp;name of a public figure: "Brad&nbsp;Pitt" but not just Brad, "Jennifer Lawrence" but not Jennifer, who might be a colleague or classmate. (It's unclear what happens if the non-celebrity's name actually is&nbsp;Jennifer Lawrence.)And there are a handful of cases in which the new apps do seem to have made the world a better place. When a student in Virginia used YikYak to reveal suicidal thoughts, says the app's 23-year-old co-founder Tyler Droll, "there was a huge response from students nearby: 'We love you, stay safe.' A group of YikYakkers went to his dorm – they went to talk to him and got him the help that they needed." (The story hasn't been officially confirmed.) Another student user, in Tennessee, summoned 1,000 people in the vicinity to have their mouths swabbed as potential blood-donor matches for a relative with a rare form of lymphoma, Droll says.It's possible to envisage the services changing the way we communicate in other fundamental ways. YikYak already permits users to "peek" into the conversations happening in other locations – only American universities, so far, but Droll hopes the function will let people immerse themselves, from a distance, in breaking news events. Given sufficient users in, say, Kiev, you wouldn't have to&nbsp;hunt for the best Twitter or Facebook accounts to follow; you'd just select a central location in the Ukrainian capital and be plunged immediately into a stream of anonymous thoughts from that vicinity. "Imagine the World Cup in Brazil, or the military coup in Thailand," Droll says. "Imagine being able to look into those places in real time, unbiased and unfiltered." (In oppressive regimes, the apps will undoubtedly need to give a greater guarantee of true anonymity than they currently can; most make it clear that they'll hand over user data in response to law enforcement requests, and their vulnerability to hackers is unclear.)Zimmerman, at Whisper, sees that app evolving into an unprecedented species of news source – "a mountain of untold stories" concerning not only alleged celebrity infidelity, but also personal accounts of hard-to-discuss topics, like sexual assault on university campuses. (The discussions beneath such postings are notable for their supportiveness and compassion.) Whisper recently announced a partnership withBuzzfeed, allowing the viral-content site to plunder its messages for articles; Whisper-based stories so far include 17 Alarming Confessions of Revenge, 13 Scandalous Wedding Confessions and 17 Confessions From British Teachers. "On a school trip to Amsterdam I spent £300 on a brothel and spent the remainder of the night in a cafe," read one note in the latter collection, purportedly from a geography teacher.After hanging around on several anonymous services for a couple of weeks – mainly as a reader, occasionally as a poster, and no, I'm obviously not going to reveal what I&nbsp;wrote – I began to notice something strange. Nastiness&nbsp;wasn't the dominant tone, but then&nbsp;again neither was&nbsp;heartfelt human-to-human confession, nor&nbsp;the teary-eyed discussion&nbsp;of taboos. On Whisper, sex was a fairly&nbsp;big deal; users can contact each other through their messages, so it has naturally become a forum for setting up casual encounters.&nbsp;But the truly dominant thing, everywhere, was attention-seeking: jokes, cod-philosophical pronouncements, wry observations&nbsp;about people's behaviour in restaurants. On any public network, that wouldn't have been a surprise; when I try to be funny onTwitter, it's partly for the ego-massage of favourites and retweets linked to my name. Secret and Whisper have similar favouriting systems, but I'd assumed they wouldn't matter&nbsp;much. Who cares about receiving an&nbsp;accolade when nobody will ever know you&nbsp;received it?Lots of people, apparently. The new apps show&nbsp;how attention has become "not merely a&nbsp;means to the end of furthering some content,&nbsp;brand, or yourself, but… an end in and of itself," saysNathan Jurgenson, a social media theorist who also works as a researcher for Snapchat. On Facebook and Twitter, for all the sense of performance, there are certain constraints on our showing off: we might want to be noticed, but we also want to look accomplished, and either respectable or cool, and&nbsp;we don't want to say things that might later&nbsp;be revealed as lies. With our identities hidden, we're freed to do what we want – and&nbsp;what many of us want most of all is to go&nbsp;viral. "These apps need to sell the fiction that&nbsp;what people are posting really are secrets,"&nbsp;Jurgenson says. Sometimes, they might be. But they're more likely to be lurid fabrications, or, for all you know, people just being smart alecks:Today I found out that my son isn't actually gay… he just told me that so that then I'd let him have girls in his bedroom.When customers don't say "thank you" I intentionally say "you're welcome", just to throw them off.I babysit for atheists. I teach their daughter about&nbsp;God.Dear person with a fuckton of items in the "15 items or less" lane, I hate you.Plato would have been surprised. And maybe&nbsp;rather depressed. When their identities are&nbsp;hidden, some people turn malicious, and others become candid or&nbsp;disarmingly kind. Generally, though, even&nbsp;when we're invisible, we  just want to&nbsp;be noticed.• This article was edited on 9 June 2014. In the original, we said that Secret employed 120 moderators, when it is Whisper that employs that many. Similarly, the caption to the main image originally referred to Secret when it is YikYak that broadcasts 'yaks'. Both have been corrected.
