Being able to get in touch with people quickly and easily but without the interruption of a phone call makes instant messaging very handy in the working day. If you don't want to type in everything you need to say, at least you know the person you want to talk to is around. That makes it even more frustrating that the various IM networks are still incompatible. Recent news about interconnecting IM systems has been two steps forward and one step back: Reuters Messaging users will soon be able to connect to MSN Messenger users courtesy of IMlogic, but Yahoo's recent updates meant Trillian users had to wait for an update to that software to be able to connect to Yahoo Messenger.Having to run several IM clients to stay in touch with all your contacts is   more than just an irritation or a waste of resources. It means three or four programs to keep up to date instead of one, and with the number of security issues affecting IM clients, that's not a trivial risk.So far, most people have worried about general security problems with instant messaging. The messages you send via public IM networks go over the public internet without any encryption; if you log the messages on your computer, they're not encrypted locally either. Tapping into an IM connection isn't a trivial undertaking, but stealing log files full of confidential information is easy if a computer is compromised by a Trojan. It's not clear how hackers got hold of the ICQ logs of eFront's chief executive which included many business discussions, but when they were published and it turned out that the company was telling one story to   customers and another publicly, it helped bring the company down.There's also the danger that you don't know who you're talking to: is it a legitimate customer service representative from the website you're shopping with, or a hacker? Plus the IM names your staff choose may not match the image you want to project; one investment bank was less than happy to find brokers talking to clients in IM using names like Studbroker and Biceps TooBig.But instant messages can contain more than just text messages. You   can transfer files directly between users and those files bypass the anti-virus scans that protect email messages and web traffic. One company recently infected by the Nimda virus tracked it down to a file transfer that the user hadn't even realised was happening.According to a survey by anti-virus developer Central Command, half of IM users have accepted a file download in the past six months. Most of those were from friends, family and colleagues but a worrying 15% of people are happy to download files from strangers.And as well as the regular viruses you can receive that way, there are plenty of worms and viruses that attack IM software specifically. Of the top 50 attacks in Symantec's new Internet Threat Report, eight target popular IM tools - that's five times worse than a year ago.Part of the problem, according to Eric Chien, chief researcher at Symantec Security Response, is that "IM software is designed for functionality not security". The well- documented interfaces that are designed to let developers add more features to IM software are just as handy for hackers: "Pretty much anyone can do it," says Chien. Plus there are the usual number of flaws in the IM clients themselves, which hackers can take advantage of.More and more viruses attack in multiple ways: via email, the web and IM. There are already Trojans that steal IM information: your account details, IM passwords which are stored insecurely by clients, buddy lists and message logs. An attack could shut down your IM software, steal information, or hook into your IM client and use it to run other programs on your computer.IM worms could spread far faster than other attacks. Code Red took 24 hours to spread widely but an IM attack could potentially reach half a million machines in 30 seconds because buddy lists give the worm a list of vulnerable machines that are connected at the time.Ironically, that speed is also the main protection against a widespread attack; the sheer amount of traffic would bring the public IM servers down almost immediately. That would stop the spread of the worm and the IM networks could block infected clients from connecting and spreading the problem.Less ambitious attacks are also thwarted by filtering. It can take a long time for people to apply the patches that protect against attacks like SQL Slammer, but the IM servers often block clients with security holes so users have to upgrade to carry on using IM.For most companies, the real risk is ignorance: if you don't know who is using IM in your company, you can't see if you're at risk.Andy Thompson of Cap Gemini Ernst &amp; Young points out that "a lot of organisations are surprised at how popular instant messaging has become" and Francis de Souza, head of IMlogic, adds that "people aren't used to the idea that they have IM in their company, much less that there are viruses associated with IM. It's much more pervasive than people think".Rather than panicking about IM security and trying to ban it - which tends to lead to users complaining or trying to find ways around the restrictions like using web-based IM clients - you need to look at the actual business value you're getting from it and make it part of your IT strategy. Invest in enterprise instant messaging systems with encryption, message logging and other security options for confidential discussions, or use security software from a company such as IMlogic to measure and control what users do with the free IM tools. Set a policy for IM - and tell everyone what it is so you can get the benefits without the risk.
Pro Evolution Soccer 3 PS2, &#163;39.99 Konami, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Football may be in crisis off the pitch, but on the PlayStation 2, things have never been better. Pro Evolution Soccer 3 is at the pinnacle of sporting excellence, kept from greatness only by the paucity of official licences. While previous titles seemed masterful, the step-up here is massive.The improvements can be summed up in one word - feel. Whether it's the way your striker controls the ball on his thigh before laying off, or the bruising shoulder barges, everything plays like the real thing.Graphically, this is a Southampton rather than a Chelsea - solid, with moments of inspiration rather than unnecessarily flashy. But the top players look and play realistically. So apart from the obvious - Beckham free kicks - you get graceful poise from Henry and tricks galore from Zidane. And there is nothing that comes close to a competitive Pro Evo 3 session for multiplayer thrills.The lack of licensed teams and kits still grates, but on the pitch is where it counts and Pro Evo 3 delivers in spades.Greg HowsonBuffy: Chaos BleedsPS2, Xbox, GameCube, &#163;39.99 Vivendi Universal, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;In the female heroine stakes, Buffy The Vampire Slayer is right up there with Lara Croft. The shadow of Tomb Raider looms over this action-adventure game, as it did last year, when   the first, Electronic Arts-published (and universally panned) Buffy-franchise game appeared.A year is a long time in videogames, and the disastrous Angel Of Darkness has left Lara looking worthless, whereas the unfancied Buffy now leads the way. Chaos Bleeds is a straight-up action-adventure game that aims to provide an experience akin to controlling the lead characters through a feature-length episode of the TV series - and largely succeeds.The gameplay involves working your way through missions by laying waste to zombies and demons, plus solving puzzles, before taking on boss monsters. Cut-scenes advance the (authentically preposterous) plot.The combat element is much better than that of Tomb Raider. Buffy and her cohorts each have signature martial arts-style special moves, and you can employ an arsenal of bizarre weapons, including spades, crossbows and giant water-pistols filled with Holy Water. The puzzles employ everyday objects such as cigarette lighters and Dictaphones, so never descend into wilful obscurity.Buffy: Chaos Bleeds is single-player only and linear, and therefore feels a touch old-fashioned, even though its graphics are gloriously crisp. If you found Angel Of Darkness a disappointment and have no particular aversion to Buffy's TV series, Chaos Bleeds should restore your faith.Steve BoxerCommandos 3: Destination BerlinPC, &#163;34.99 Pyro/Eidos, &#42;&#42;&#42;After two cracking games, Spanish developer Pyrohad had to endure major problems with this latest instalment. Despite this, the game emerges on time and promises a gamut of new challenges. So does it deliver? No.The good points first. You have three new campaigns, broken into bite-sized chunks rather than sprawling missions, which allows for some stunning cut-scenes and a new multiplayer mode. This time round, your squad has more shared abilities, and internal views have improved.But there have been compromises. You have fewer squad members and some of their abilities are missing from previous games. The interface has been overhauled, making it more confusing and less instinctive. Furthermore, C3's choice of fixed perspectives is looking increasingly primitive, as is the inability to issue simultaneous orders to your men. But the biggest problem is the limited nature of these smaller missions. The first one, for instance, can be finished in under 20 seconds!Despite this, the game retains an air of dogged playability and once you master the interface, you will enjoy the near-vertical challenge. But true fans will wonder where the genre is going.Mike Anderiesz
The US dominates the global software business, but it faces a dilemma. To serve their shareholders (and their profits), IT companies are shifting work to programmers overseas, especially in India and China. But this increases the risk that America will lose control of the industry, the way it lost control of steel manufacturing. This is worrying because software and services have been engines of growth for the US economy. Unless the US government adopts policies that support the software industry, it will soon be too late.That was the gist of the argument presented last week by Intel's chairman, Andy Grove, speaking by satellite at the invitation-only Global Tech Summit in Washington, DC, which I attended as a   guest of the Business Software Alliance. The event was intended to boost the software industry, but Grove pointed out it was also National Depression Screening Day. "I'm here to be the skunk at your garden party," he said.Not coincidentally, the summit was held in the same city and a day later than the software industry's seventh annual CEO Forum - "a day-long series of private meetings and visits with the White House, top administration officials and congressional leaders". Behind the scenes, there was a whole lot of lobbying going on.So far, the BSA has been best known for fighting piracy. According to its own annual survey, 40% of software is pirated, and this year, 19 countries had piracy rates above 70%. This cost the software industry $12bn in lost revenues   last year, says the BSA. Cutting piracy would create millions of jobs and stimulate economic growth.But it is not an easy sale. The average congressman is well aware of the billions of dollars that BSA members such as Apple, Cisco, HP, IBM, Intel and Microsoft have in the bank, and the thousands of millionaires created by the inflation of technology stock prices.What may also be true is that the BSA has a blind spot when it comes to the open source movement. It represents commercial software suppliers, but Richard Stallman's GPL - the General Public Licence under which GNU/Linux has been released - makes it hard to survive as a commercial software company.Take the 10-year-old market leader, Red Hat, for example. Its basic strategy is to get an annual subscription fee for every Red Hat   enterprise Linux server. It increased its turnover from $33m in 1999 to $91m in the year to February, but lost money every year. In three of the past five years, the balance sheet entry for "loss from continuing operations" is bigger than the one for "total subscription and services revenues". Microsoft's revenues for fiscal 2003 were $32.2bn.Sun Microsystems, which makes its money from hardware, is also hoping to reduce the commercial software business with its Mad Hatter open source desktop. Sun's software chief Jonathan Schwartz says: "We plan to take a $20bn market and turn it into a $3bn market."Today, the BSA reckons that commercial software is a $175bn industry that generates jobs for 2.3m people. Even ignoring its passage to India, it could be much smaller tomorrow.Links  Jack Schofield's columnGlobal Tech Summitwww.GlobalTechSummit.comGrove's speech (unedited transcript)www.globaltechsummit.net/press/GTSTranscript_AndyGrove.docBSA anti-piracy paperswww.bsa.org/usa/researchSchofield interviews Stallman (1998)www.resonant.org/text/news/online.guardian.co.uk-910792139-stallman.html&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please  say so.
Quick: name three successful government IT projects. Some cynics will snort that "government", "success" and "IT" should not belong in the same sentence. More knowledgeable people will ponder a moment before coming up with a list that will include NHS Direct, the agriculture department's cattle-tracing system (or, if they're real insiders, the latest release of the Inland Revenue's online self assessment service). And, almost certainly, the London congestion charging scheme.This last inclusion is interesting. Whatever you think of the scheme as a whole (this London-based writer is strongly in favour), congestion charging is perceived as an IT success despite having many   attributes normally associated with public sector computing disasters.A new report, Public Interest, Private Profit, by the budget committee of the London Assembly is full of damaging facts. It finds fault in the way the contract with the prime contractor, Capita, was drawn up, and numerous failings by the firm. It criticises Transport for London for the secrecy surrounding the contract, expected to be worth &#163;297m over five years.Shortcomings are identified in service to customers and in the technology. For example, only 59% of penalty charge notices are paid. The main cause of mistakes was human error in inputting details of number plates.None of this (apart from perhaps the contract secrecy) means that the congestion charge's architects should be pilloried. The project   was a bold initiative, pushing technology to the limit, and naturally some details needed tweaking. Failures should be seen in the context of overall success.But the same should go for other projects which, largely because of highly publicised teething problems, are now irrevocably labelled failures. The 1999 Passport Agency debacle springs to mind.What's the difference? Partly it's to do with outcomes. Congestion charging has undoubtedly helped reduce traffic congestion in central London. Mainly, however, it's to do with perceptions. Transport for London has been good at creating the perception that congestion charging works.It helped set this agenda by going live on time. This deprived critics of the easiest category of failure, launch delay. Also the project team   kept a firm lid on debate about technical and financial aspects of the contract by keeping most details secret. By the time rumours of shortcomings came trickling out, congestion charging had moved off the front pages. The feeding frenzy that accompanies most project disasters never got started.If that's the secret of project success, is it replicable? At least one project manager hopes so. Richard Granger, in charge of the &#163;2.3bn NHS IT programme, is driving that project with a ruthless attention to deadlines and to keeping a lid on debate. He knows that, no matter what technical and contractual glitches occur, the project will be a success if people believe it to be.How can he be sure? Perhaps because his last job was to put together the London congestion charge.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please  say so.
Demos opens upDemos has gone open source. To celebrate its 10th anniversary, the political think tank is putting more than 150 books and essays online in a bid to allow the viral spread of its ideas. The fully searchable archive is arranged around five themes: democracy, learning, enterprise, global change and quality of life. Among the works available without the usual copyright restrictions are the writings of Zygmunt Bauman, Roger Scruton and David Blunkett, plus a recent paper by Douglas Rushkoff on e-democracy. Demos also has a blog - the Greenhouse. If you are interested in how technology is changing politics, check out the VoxPolitics project.www.demos.co.ukwww.demosgreenhouse.co.ukwww.VoxPolitics.comWinds of changePope John Paul II is due to celebrate the 25th anniversary of his election today, and on Sunday he will beatify Mother Theresa. The Vatican's website has a host of information about the Pope, the Catholic church and the treasured manuscripts in the Vatican library, but not all of it is available in English. Speculation about the health of the 83-year-old pontiff has hastened questions about who might succeed him. Rebecca Nappi, of the Spokesman-Review newspaper in Spokane, Washington, has set up a timely weblog devoted to discussing the winds of change sweeping through the Catholic church.www.vatican.vawww.spokesmanreview.com/blogswww.catholic.netPumpkin headWith two weeks until Halloween, there is still plenty of time to hone your pumpkin-carving skills. Tom Nardone, pumpkin artist extraordinaire, has a website offering a range of advice about the process of creating a kick-ass jack-o-lantern, from choosing one, to carving it, and making it glow brightly. The site is full of photographs of Nardone in action, plus a photo gallery of some of his finest creations. There is even a recipe to turn the seeds into a tasty snack. And if you fancy growing a pumpkin for Halloween 2004, visit the Giant Pumpkins Online site.www.extremepumpkins.comwww.gardeningexpress.co.uk/pumpkinsBlogger BushCan the weblog phenomenon truly be said to have entered the mainstream now that the most powerful man in America - if not the world - has a weblog? It's unlikely that George Bush types in the entries himself. It is an indication, however, of the role blogging could play in next year's presidential election. No surprise, then, that Guardian Unlimited has launched a weblog covering the race for the White House, which will include contributions from US correspondents. WatchBlog is also an excellent source for US election news and comment.www.georgewbush.com/blogwww.guardian.co.uk/weblog/usawww.watchblog.comBringing up babyA website devoted to helping parents navigate the minefield of bringing up baby has been launched by child clinical psychologist Anne O'Connor. It aims to answer all those questions parents were afraid to ask, and to help them meet up with other parents on the site's message boards to share advice, give support and compare notes. There are sections for pregnant women and those with newborn babies, plus help on how to discipline your children and keep them safe online. Meanwhile, at the Baby Show, to be held at London Olympia from tomorrow until Sunday, you can stock up on supplies or get advice at workshops led by childcare guru Dr Miriam Stoppard.www.babyandkids.co.ukwww.thebabyshow.co.uk/londonPayPal for BritainOnline payment service PayPal has launched PayPal UK, its first international website. The site offers customers seller protection to prevent sellers losing out to fraudulent buyers - provided you comply with several rules. It is also limited to transactions with UK or US buyers. Although many Britons already use the international PayPal site, general manager Matt Bannick says the UK site will bring extra security and convenience. A bonus is the removal of withdrawal fees for sums of &#163;50 and above. Fees for withdrawals of less than &#163;50 have been halved.www.paypal.co.ukNew &amp; noted7th World Solar Challengewww.wsc.org.auTeen Big Brotherwww.channel4.com/life/microsites/T/teenbigbrotherSuperb Christmas Partieswww.SuperbChristmasParties.co.ukSix of the best:ShakespeareShakespeare's globewww.shakespeares-globe.orgThe Shakespeare Birthplace Trustwww.shakespeare.org.ukShakespeare 101www.shakespearehigh.com/classroom/guideRoyal Shakespeare Companywww.rsc.org.ukComplete works of Shakespearewww.ipl.org/div/shakespeareSpeak like an Elizabethanwww.renfaire.com/Language
Panasonic is set to revolutionise the camcorder market with the introduction of a tiny device that records MPeg 2 (DVD quality) footage yet does not require tapes or discs. Instead, the &#163;1,000 SV-AV100, due later this month, captures video and saves it to an SD (Secure Digital) memory card.Weighing just 156 grams, it can take still images at VGA standard (640 x 480 pixels). These can be viewed on its 2.5in LCD display. While the video quality is excellent, the device is limited by the small amount of footage an SD card can store.Panasonic is bundling a 512MB SD card with the model - enough for around 10 minutes of MPeg 2 video at its highest bit rate of 6Mbps. The other MPeg 2 option, with a bit rate of 3Mbps, will allow you to store 20 minutes of video.When using the compressed MPeg4 option, the device is capable of storing up to three hours of video. Other facilities include a 10x optical zoom, auto exposure options and manual focusing.www.panasonic.co.uk
No more lost kidsSurely the big story (The internet of things, October 9) is that if RFID technology can be used to track things outside the confines of a retail system and on to the street, then parents and carers the world over will think - if all my children's clothes could be chipped, I would always know where they were! No more lost children! And when kids go missing, no more frantic searches by police! Immense amounts of police time saved. And no more runaways - well, not quite but it gives parents, carers and police a massive help in finding a missing person. I haven't seen any articles which address the social implications of this technology. And, what if by law all guns had embedded RFID chips? Would that help the police? I would suggest it might.Paul BryantNottinghamRubbish responseYour feature on RFID tagging was thought-provoking and I agree with the campaigners who stress the perils of a loss of consumer privacy. However, has anyone considered the corollary of multinationals being able to keep tabs on the life-cycle of their products? Wouldn't this mean, for instance, that we might be able to hold them responsible for the recycling and re-use of materials?I don't care that they will have the potential to track lost shipments, but I would consider it a bonus if they were forced to account for every Coke can and car axle they produce.Nick HannaHastingsDual useI agree with most of Graham Swallow's criticism of the PCTV (Feedback, October 9). However, I take exception with one part of his argument. He asks how anyone can work and watch TV at the same time. Well, your PC doesn't always get used for work. At home, my PowerBook never gets used for work, as I trawl the Internet Movie DataBasewww.imdb.com, andBaseball Reference, and other like-minded sites, depending on what's flickering across the other half of my consciousness at the time.Dave GriffithsManchesterMulti-disfunctionalIn these days of PCTVs and internet fridges (What's New, October 9), perhaps Online readers would like to nominate their favourite ideas for PMDs (pointlessly multifunctional devices). If we get our ideas in fast, somebody in Japan is bound to have them on the market by Christmas.I'd like to start the ball rolling with a barcode scanner that doubles as a fish knife, a DVD writer that can scrape ice off goats' horns and a USB ball-valve that can put live pictures of the inside of your cold water tank on to your website. As with all cutting-edge technology, their potential to transform your life will only become apparent once you start to use them.Stephen EngelhardLondonRadio recordingI have been using Audio HiJack with Real Player for nearly a year (Ask Jack, October 9), and built up a fairly large collection of interesting radio programmes - which I put on my iPod and listen to. This increases the time I spend listening to radio by several hours per week. Before Audio Hijack supported MP3, I would used iTunes to convert AIFF files.This is all fine, but what annoys me   is the BBC's decision to use the proprietary Real Audio format. It is not that easy to obtain the Real Player without having to pay but, more importantly, I don't think a public corporation should be using a proprietary protocol when there are far better open protocols - such as MP3 - available.I have aired this view on a few bulletin boards and had unanimous agreement. I have written to the BBC asking why they use the Real format, but never received a response.I presume their logic is that if they make it difficult to get digital copies of their programmes by making the user record in real time, as opposed to downloading an MP3 file in a few seconds, then they are less likely to lose revenue on their own recorded material. That is fair enough, but they do not need to use a proprietary audio streaming format to do that.I would happily pay for MP3 copies of radio programmes and I think they are losing a valuable source of revenue.John YardleySurreyAutism airedA local subscriber to the Guardian emailed me your website. I have two autistic sons (ages three and seven), so she thought I would be interested in Charlotte Moore's articles (Parents, G2). I'm so glad she did! Thank you for bringing autism into the spotlight.Mary CozartOklahoma, USConsole yourselfThat new PSX photo you published sure looks like the old Playstation (1) console, often referred to by the shorthand name PSX, but it is a shame you guys aren't aware of the difference between this and the new Sony machine.Tim PalmerTim_Palmer@sandwich.pfizer.com
Men who use internet chatrooms to "groom" young girls for sex were warned that they face long jail terms yesterday as judges increased a sentence from three to four-and-a-half years for a paedophile who had sex with two 13-year-old girls.Three judges in the court of appeal ruled that the three-year sentence handed out to electronics engineer Michael Wheeler, 36, at Norwich crown court in June was "significantly too lenient".But the mother of one of his victims said the new jail term imposed on Wheeler, from Cambridge, was still too short. The 41-year-old mother of child "C", aged 13 at the time of the offences and now 14, said: "I am happy, but personally I expected a lot more and wanted a lot more."Three years is disgusting. Four and a half is a little bit better but personally I would have liked nearer 10."The mother, who said her daughter was scarred for life, said: "I think future cases where there has been grooming on the internet will be dealt with a lot more harshly and that is a good thing, although that has not helped us."Detectives believe Wheeler deliberately waited until the girls were 13 because unlawful sexual intercourse sex with under-13s carries a maximum life sentence, while the maximum for sex with girls between 13 and 16 is two years.He met the first girl when she was 11 and groomed her, buying her presents and taking her to the cinema, until she was 13. He admitted five counts of having unlawful sex with the girls and six counts of indecently assaulting them.When the sex offences bill now going through parliament becomes law, the maximum sentence for unlawful sexual intercourse with girls between 13 and 16 will go up to 14 years.Lord Justice Kay, Mr Justice Poole and Mr Justice Treacy also increased Wheeler's licence period to two-and-a-half years and disqualified him from working with children. He will remain on the sex offenders register for life.Lord Justice Kay said: "The use by older men of internet chatrooms used by young girls can have no acceptable justification. It is an area in which the courts need to deliver a clear message of disapproval."Sentences would be "at the top end of the range".The judge said the shortest sentence that could have been imposed on Wheeler at the crown court was five-and-a-half years, but giving a discount for "double jeopardy" - where an offender faces the sentencing process twice - the appeal court substituted four-and-a-half years.He said: "Men contemplating involvement with much younger girls via internet chatrooms with a view to sexual activity should appreciate that the court is likely to pass a longer sentence than this in future and sentences even higher than those to which we have referred may well not be seen as manifestly excessive."The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, who had asked the appeal court to increase Wheeler's sentence, said: "Sentences for sexual abuse of vulnerable child victims must reflect the long-term psychological damage caused by sex offences, to victims and their families."John Carr, internet adviser for the children's charity NCH, said: "Everybody was surprised and shocked at the original sentence so this puts that right. This was one of the worst ever cases of internet abuse."Detective sergeant Darryl Preston of Cambridgeshire police said: "I'm certainly pleased that the court of appeal have increased the sentence." He added that the new legislation on sex offences "is something we need sooner rather than later".
Every week, Steve Ranger leaves his home in Cheshire and travels to Ilford in Essex, where since December he has been an IT programme director at North East London Strategic Health Authority. This time last year, he was working in the telecoms industry. Today, he is employed on a public sector contract that looks like it will last until the end of 2005.Having worked in the public sector before, Ranger knew what to expect when he made the switch. "It is complicated. The NHS works by consensus, and you have to persuade a huge number of people before you can get something done. In the private sector, if the managing director wants it done, people fall into line," he says. "If you are a pure IT person, without change management experience, you will find it hard, and people who have never worked in the public sector might find it a shock."But with the private sector job market in the doldrums, more contractors than ever are getting over that shock, and finding themselves working in the public sector - in jobs that they might have previously dismissed as second-rate."The public sector is our shining star," says Shobhan Gajjar, website director forCWJobs, where 300,000 users trawl for opportunities from 9,000 jobs on the site at any time. "Salaries are still lower overall, but in some areas they have gone up 50% in the past 12 months."On CWJobs, the number of permanent IT jobs vacancies in the public sector has risen during each of the past three quarters, and for contractors in each of the past five quarters. In the second quarter of this year, there were 110% more contract jobs available in the public sector than one year previously.Gajjar has seen his candidates follow the work. "Three years ago, it   was very difficult getting a contractor to cross over. The work in the public sector was not interesting, the management was not up to scratch and the pay was bad. But employment patterns are changing: many of the people applying from our website are prepared to earn &#163;10,000 less to have an improved quality of life and stability. A lot of these people have had a decade of good earning, so taking that sort of hit can be possible."Undeniably, the quality of work and management in the public sector has improved, too: with local and national government committed to e-government projects with a 2005 deadline and large-scale automation - especially in the NHS, where a national patient handling system will be created in the next two years - public sector project managers have this year's in-demand skill."I have worked the long hours and had the company car, but in the private sector, a lot of those hours are wasted effort," says Graham Simmons, a project manager with the social services department of the London Borough of Brent. "Today, the public sector has improved its focus on deadlines, and become much better at running meetings."Nevertheless, pay is often 20% less   than for the equivalent job in the private sector, say recruiters. "On the other hand, that comes with flexible working hours, a four-and-a-half-day week in some cases and five weeks' holiday. And that's at a time when the private sector is pushing its staff very hard," says Hadleigh Rossiter, the managing director of recruitment consultant Aspectus Global Resource Solutions. "We speak to project managers in the commercial software houses, and we know that they are working their staff into the ground at the moment. In the public sector, that simply doesn't happen.""You don't get massive redundancies every few months, so you can get on with your work with a sense of security. If you work hard, you move up the ladder, and get a lot of training in other skills," says Victoria Brockwell, manager of the local government IT team at Badenoch &amp; Clark. "In e-government, quite a few people are joining from the private sector. They are younger, new to public sector work, and more of the projects are starting to be run like a business."Public sector work is also casting off its reputation for recruiting drones. With large budgets and high-profile projects, it has attracted some high fliers. Sue Hill, of Sue Hill Re cruitment, specialises in knowledge and information specialists, and now half of her contract jobs are in the public sector, compared to 20% a few years ago. "I placed someone in a government department at a senior level who was head of knowledge management at a top City law firm. She told me, 'I used to think I had a big budget because I had a couple of million pounds. I've got tens of millions now'.""The mood has changed,' Hill adds. "The people I see going into the government jobs now are entrepreneurial and business-oriented ... in my experience some of the largest companies are far more bureaucratic than the government."Taking a pay cut to work for the public good could even be a life-changing experience for contractors more accustomed to chasing the highest bidder. "My initial contract was for two months last December, but I am still here. It's extremely interesting to do something you know is worthwhile," says Ranger."It can be like wading through treacle sometimes, but the people I work with are committed to achieving something for everyone," adds Simmons.
If you're outside Woolworth's in the centre of Widnes, Cheshire, tomorrow week, look out for an innovation in e-government. Halton Borough Council's Benefits Express, a bus packed with IT, will be helping local people navigate the bureaucratic maze of applying for housing benefits and council tax relief.Benefits Express was last week named winner of the 2003 Local Government IT Excellence Awards. The awards, organised by local government bodies together with the IT industry's trade body Intellect, are a chance for organisations at the sharp end of e-government to celebrate their achievements - and to reduce the need for other councils to re-invent wheels.This year, the four short-listed projects showed that e-government is about a lot more than making life convenient for privileged members of society. The runners up included information services for disabled people and a call centre for children in care.According to Peter McCann, head of revenues and benefits at Halton Borough Council, the idea of Benefits Express was to cut down the paperchase of documents needed to support claims for housing or council tax benefits. "We knew that if we could meet claimants face to face, 99% of the problems would be solved."But there was no point in sending benefits officers to meet claimants unless they were equipped with IT systems to complete all the formalities on the spot. Hence the bus, which is fitted with laptops connected to the council's Northgate   benefits-management system by a general packet radio service (GPRS) "always on" radio link.Staff also have digital cameras to record images of original documents such as pension books. This enables them to complete a claim in a claimant's home, and tell them how much they can expect to receive. Face-to-face contacts are especially helpful for elderly people or those with disabilities. The council put together the Benefits Express systems without engaging an outside contractor.Since it began touring the borough in December, the average time needed to process a benefits claim has fallen from eight to two weeks.The project is funded with &#163;50,000 from the government's Neighbourhood Renewal Fund. For the council,   the payback is to reduce the amount of time wasted dealing with incomplete claims. The service also helps it meet "best value" targets set by central government. "It's been incredibly well received," says McCann.Benefits Express has funding for two years after the initial money runs out at the end of the financial year. The council plans to use its technology for more than processing paperwork. When officers see claimants in their homes, they can assess their needs, give advice and recommend further help. This can only be done by personal visits, McCann says.Although the council runs web-based e-government services, these are not the solution to most benefit claimants' problems. "On the web we felt we were just tinkering on the edges."Runners up for this year's awards were:&#183;Leicester disability information and communication network. This is an easy-to-use web portal with specially adapted computer suites in community centres to help people with disabilities, and their carers, get information online.&lt;A HREF="http://www.ldicn.org.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.ldicn.org.uk&#183;Liverpool integrated children's service. Liverpool City Council is one of the country's pioneers at integrating information held in many different systems about its population of 108,000 children. The need for such joined-up information was graphically demonstrated by the murder in London of Victoria Climbi&#233;. Liverpool is setting up a children's community index to collate informa tion held on IT systems run by education, social services, youth offending teams and, eventually, the NHS.The integrated children's service uses IT to cut across institutional boundaries to create a single point of access to all services for children and families in Liverpool. It runs the first round-the-clock social services call centre in the country, responding to inquiries from children, families and professionals. The system identifies vulnerable children, refers them to professionals and tracks what is happening to them.The integrated children's service also runs a secure confidential website, c-net, for "looked-after" children and their carers. The site, designed with the involvement of children in care, includes moderated discussion boards. The next version of the site will allow children to set up their own home pages.www.liverpool.gov.uk&#183;Surreyjobs info. In wealthier parts of Britain, public agencies find it hard to recruit and retain certain types of staff. The Surrey partners e-recruitment project helps local government and other agencies by attracting employees from a wider market than they could reach on their own. The system, set up with funding from the office of the deputy prime minister's pathfinder scheme, includes a single electronic application form shared by several agencies, as well as a search service for public sector jobs.www.surreyjobs.info
If there was one lesson learnt during the dotcom bubble it was that it was important to understand your customer. Books such as The Cluetrain Manifesto described how business was a conversation between two people, not an impersonal company dictating terms to its customers. As more and more business processes are automated, and customers start contacting you by phone, email and the web, it's become important to find tools that help keep track of who your customers are, and what they want from you.Changes in the IT marketplace have meant that now CRM (customer relationship management) solutions are available for all organisations, of any size - it makes sense if you have 10 employees or 10,000. CRM isn't just about managing call centres or sales staff; now it is about increasing revenues, reducing costs and improving customer satisfaction. It is also an important component of any local e-government service, allowing access to details of when a customer last contacted their local council and why.Microsoft has entered the CRM marketplace with two products. The first, Business Contact Manager, will be part of Office 2003, and adds customer and account management   features to Outlook. This is a single user tool, helping to track the history of a business relationship. Larger organisations can work with Microsoft's full CRM package, which also integrates with Outlook. This comes in a standard version, with contact and service management, and professional, with rules customisation and toolkits to build a CRM tool that fits your business processes.Simon Edwards, the general manager UK and Ireland for Microsoft Business Solutions, points out that the SME software market is fragmented - and for a reason: there needs to be a lot of choice for so many different vertical markets. It can be difficult for a horizontal product to meet the needs of so many different ways of working, so Microsoft is working with partners to build its CRM software into their own solutions. Scala is building it into the latest version of its iScala resource management tool, while SevenThree is producing a version targeted at the construction industry.Smaller businesses often don't have the IT resources needed to run their own 24/7 services, but they do have many of the same needs as larger businesses. Traditional CRM tools can be expensive and complex,   with weeks of customisation needed before they work with a business, a process that Gartner indicates can mean more than 50% of deployments failing to deliver promised results.One alternative is companies such as Salesforce.com, which offer online solutions that work in most browsers. Signing up can mean a simple per seat licensing model, along with a free trial and no configuration costs. As Steve Garnett, Salesforce.com's general manager puts it: "Salesforce.com takes the risk, not its customers." In the past the application service provider model has meant being locked into a single way of working, but tools such as Salesforce.com's can be customised, and linked directly into your existing business systems.If you want an online managed CRM service, there are several others   to choose from. Competitor NetSuite has just launched a localised version of its small and medium business tools in the UK. NetSuite's applications mix CRM and ERP, as well as some elements of a business intelligence solution by delivering information as web portal dashboards. Online CRM is a growing trend - Seibel is launching a hosted service, and Aspective has announced that it will be launching a similar service based around Microsoft's CRM toolsCRM isn't just for the desktop - it's easy enough to carry in your pocket, too. Contact management is a key component of any CRM solution, and two popular desktop solutions also have PDA versions. Sage's ACT! for Palm OS will give you a day planner with activity tracking, to help manage sales contacts while on the   road, while FrontRange's mGoldMine links wireless devices to a central contact management service.Another approach to midrange CRM has come from Oracle. Oracle's suite of enterprise applications includes CRM tools, and it has realised that its tools scale down as well as up. Instead of writing a new application, Oracle has worked with its partners to deploy its CRM tools at a lower cost and in smaller companies. It's an approach that means a CRM solution will scale with the business, growing as needed - instead of requiring a new investment every time you outgrow your current tools.With low set-up costs and simple per seat licensing models, the new generation of mid-range CRM tools also mean that it is a lot easier to show a return on your investment.
How did NTK originate?Incomprehensibly, it was originally intended to be a print magazine. In our defence, it was the 90s and that was still cool then - we didn't know any better!Did you and Danny (O'Brien) envisage it enduring so successfully?No, and we like to think we were largely right about that. Seriously. though, we never imagined it would last this long - nearly seven years now, which is longer thanSlashdot.org- though we never considered how it might stop.Ever been any run-ins with any of the subjects of your IT stories?No. They seem to regard it as a perverse badge of pride, like being inPrivate Eye. Plus, we're usually factual enough for the villains to laugh it off and say: "Yeah, it's a fair cop, and we would've gotten away with it if it hadn't been for you pesky semi-professional maverick IT journos."What's been the biggest change in the IT world since you started NTK?There's been the rise ofLinuxandopen source. We've also seen the rise of MP3s - in 1997, they were so new we used to call them MPeg 3s. We've seenGoogle, the increase in spam and also broadband coming into the home. There's also been the unexpected return of the Mac from beyond the grave.Should Microsoft be worried about the shift towards Linux then?Yes,   they have to be because Linux doesn't have the licensing costs if you're, say, a government department wanting to standardise your set-up over thousands of machines.You mentioned spam - how can we reclaim our inboxes from the Viagra-peddlars?Don't get rid of SMTP, just encourage people to use it in more secure ways. I should maybe clarify that that's simple mail transfer protocol, not Ant and Dec's Saturday morning TV show!Are you following the blogging phenomenon?Indeed - I read various blogs such ashttp://snackspot.org,www.oblomovka.com,www.hexkey.co.uk/lee/log. That doesn't mean, however, that we have to subscribe to all this "blogs: saviours of the universe" rubbish, though.So do you think blogging's days are numbered?I think blogging's 15 minutes of web-fame will be up when the next fad comes along. Blogs are basically homepages - with all the tragedy and comedy that entails - but now updated often several times a day.Any thoughts on Microsoft's decision to shut down its chatrooms?I'm surprised how many news outlets unquestioningly repeated Microsoft's line about why they were doing it. However, I am reassured that mass media is increasingly inclined to ask how responsible the company is for virus/worm problems which exploit security holes in their products - if a car manufacturer's products kept going out of control, there'd be an outcry!Visit:www.ntk.net
They're an advertiser's dream - the perfect online consumer group. They spend up to 10 times longer online than the average internet user, and are far more likely to buy the latest gadgets. Their incomes are higher and they're better educated. And they show strong loyalty to organisations that target them. Gays and lesbians online, take a bow."Gay men and women have the technology attitudes and demographics that marketers dream about. Gays are among the first to adopt new devices and online tools, making them prime targets for digital marketing as well as emerging technologies," says a recent Forrester Research study.The market might seem negligible - an estimated 17m Americans and 3-6m Britons are homosexual. "But two things mitigate against this market being 'small'," says analyst Jed Kolko, author of the Forrester study. "The first is buying power, and the second is that this is a fairly identifiable audience. There are clear websites that people go to, and events like Gay Pride that make it easy to target them."The power of the pink pound is significant: &#163;6bn in the UK and $464bn in the US, where gays and lesbians outstrip Asians and Hispanics in collective buying power and, in per capita terms, are well ahead of all US minority groups. How easy is it for advertisers to find this potential market online? The number one American website to reach single men with household incomes over $75,000 is not CNN sports, but Gay.com (which has a UK satellite site, uk.gay.com), according to research by @plan.Kolko says gays and lesbians in the US are more likely to be university graduates, be online, to have broadband, and to shop, bank and book travel online. They are more likely than heterosexuals to own almost every type of electronic device, excluding camcorders and video game consoles. And, they are more likely to join in every variety of online activity from dating to downloading music, using instant messaging and sending   e-greeting cards. The only things they don't do in greater numbers are visit sports sites (except lesbians, compared to women in general) and play games online by themselves.UK figures have turned up similar results. A survey in 2001 found that 52% of gays and lesbians were online, compared to 32% of the general public, 27% bank online, and the average monthly online spend of those using the net was &#163;160.Those kinds of demographics have made gays and lesbians the target of campaigns by big name companies, not just those that offer gay-specific services. Gay.com pulls in big name advertisers such as American Airlines, Viacom, Procter &amp; Gamble, General Motors and IBM. Gay.co.uk has snapped up Debenhams, Visa and Sainsbury's, to name a few.Research shows that gays and lesbians are among the most brand-loyal of consumers, says Kolko. A gay-specific approach has made American Express and Absolut leading brands with gays and lesbians.Overall, they are 87% more likely to give their custom to companies that target them specifically.Based on such figures, PlanetOut Partners, the media parent company of Gay.com, has adopted an aggressive marketing approach towards advertisers. "The average middle-class family spends over $1m to raise a child through age 22. Some gay people have kids. Most don't. Where are they spending that money? On your products," says one pitch on its website.Advertisers are biting - in some cases. While Queercompany.com and Gay365.com have folded, PlanetOut startled many in the struggling online publication world this summer when it announced it had gone into the black, based on the revenue its cluster of online sites pulls in. These include Out &amp; About Travel, PlanetOut.com, eight international sites for Gay.com, and a shopping site targeting gays and lesbians. This is called Kleptomaniac.com after the comment by former US senator Trent Lott that homosexuals were sick and should receive treatment, like alcoholics or kleptomaniacs.But it isn't all about shopping. Kolko believes the web has been transformative for gays and lesbians: "The fact that the virtual &#91;gay&#93; community is so strong suggests it has changed the experience of being gay."But whatever the reasons, advertisers are increasingly hearing one message: viewing the web through rose-tinted glasses might not be a bad idea.
Bill Gates is to donate at least $25m (&#163;14.95m) to research into whether GM food can provide 840 million malnourished people with extra vitamins and micro-nutrients.But the first move by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the world's largest private philanthropic organisation, into controversial food biotechnology for developing countries was yesterday criticised by development groups which said the research was "scientifically unnecesary".The Gates foundation, which has been praised for its generosity to Aids and malaria research, is to channel what is expected to be a first tranche of money through several publicly-owned international science research groups. The 10-year programme aims to "bio-fortify" - add nutrients and vitamins - to staple crops, including beans, wheat, cassava, maize, rice and sweet potatoes.The project will combine conventional and GM techniques. Almost 3 billion people suffer from iron deficiencies in their diet, 127 million pre-school children lack vitamin A, and 4.4 million people have eye damage or blindness caused by lack of vitamins.An umbrella group, Harvest Plus, will run the programme with the International Centre for Tropical Agriculture (Ciat) and the International Food Policy Research Institute.The project brings together the US Department of Agriculture and several of its research arms, the World Bank, and the US food aid programme, which distributes GM food to the world's poorest. A committee has also been set up which includes major GM companies.Sue Meyer, of Genewatch, said: "This is a Trojan horse to make GM foods acceptable to poor countries." Patrick Mulvaney, of Intermediate Technology, said: "Mr Gates is investing in hi-tech solutions for a serious problem that could be solved by investing in proven methods."David Fleming, of the Gates Foundation, argued that the programme had the potential "to dramatically improve the lives of poor children and their families who depend largely upon these staples for their diets". Joachim Voss, director general of Ciat, said he was aware that GM companies might try to take advantage of the public science that would be done. "If it is not for the public good then we're not interested. We are determined not to be abused by private companies," he said.
"About 25 technology companies are backing a new language to simplify computing for corporations and make it easier and cheaper for data centers to exchange information. The open standard, called Data Center Markup Language or DCML, is designed to boost so-called utility computing and will be ready early next year, officials said." The backers include Computer Associates, BEA Systems and Akamai, reportsAP.
A paedophile who sexually abused two 13-year-old girls had his three-year custodial sentence increased by 18 months today.Three judges in the court of appeal ruled that the sentences given to electronics engineer Michael Wheeler, 36, at Norwich crown court in June were "unduly lenient".During his trial, the court heard that Wheeler had pretended to be 19 when he made first contact with one of the girls, who was 11-years-old at the time, in an internet chatroom.He groomed her for two years, giving her presents and exploiting her "loveless" self-image to make her so emotionally dependent she was prepared to lie to her parents."Sexual intercourse first took place in his Triumph Stag car in a garage behind his home," John Farmer, prosecuting, said. "She was a virgin."Wheeler subsequently had sex with the then 13-year-old girl in an office and in a park, the court heard. "Sometimes the girl's friends watched the abuse."Wheeler met the second girl through the first and also began abusing her shortly after her 13th birthday. After his arrest, he denied the relationships had been sexual and claimed to have treated the girls like daughters.Detectives believe he deliberately exploited the current law on sentencing by waiting until the girls were 13 before having sex with them.The maximum sentence for unlawful sexual intercourse with a girl under 13 is life, but the current maximum sentence for a girl aged 13 or over is two years.The move to increase Wheeler's sentence was made on behalf of the attorney general, Lord Goldsmith QC, at a hearing before the judges last week.David Perry, counsel for the attorney general, told them: "The essential submission on behalf of the attorney general is that the three years failed adequately to reflect the gravity of the offences, in particular the need for deterrence and public concern about offences of this nature."The use of the internet by older men to contact young girls and then prey upon young and vulnerable girls is a matter of profound public concern."In statements to the police, both girls spoke of being emotionally damaged by the abuse.The first said: "Since he abused me, I feel I have changed. I feel I have lost my innocence and I cannot concentrate in school. All my friends have fallen out with me. I don't relate to boys any more."The second girl told police: "I was scared. He seemed like he was a really nice and trustful person. I didn't think it would be like that."Wheeler's defence counsel, Karim Khalil, said in mitigation at his trial that he had believed the first girl to be 16 when he made contact with her.Police described Wheeler as a "calculating sex offender" who had shown no remorse.He pleaded guilty in February after being presented with forensic evidence that made it difficult to sustain a denial.
America Online plans to introduce a discount version of its dial-up internet service early next year that will carry the Netscape brand name.The new service is expected to cost $9.95 (6) a month for unlimited access to US users, a big reduction from the $23.90 monthly tag that comes with AOL's current dial-up service, which has seen its subscriber numbers fall. The new plan would also beat the $14.95-per-month package AOL is pushing to people who get their internet access from a separate broadband provider.However, executives at Dulles, Virginia-based AOL, part of AOL Time Warner, don't believe the new Netscape discount service will siphon away bigger-spending customers after it is launched in the first quarter of 2004.The plan is instead targeted at people who want only bare-bones internet access and are considered unlikely to spend more on higher-end packages, according to the AOL source, who spoke on condition of anonymity.For example, the slimmed-down service will not offer the parental controls or exclusive content found on AOL's main service. And while AOL now lets subscribers have up to seven different email accounts, the Netscape package will carry only one screen name and email address.The plan was first reported yesterday in the Wall Street Journal. The discount plan amounts to the latest acknowledgment that AOL needs to do more to keep its 25.3 million internet access customers from fleeing - after losing 1.1 million worldwide in the first half of this year.Internet users are being enticed at both ends of the price scale, not only by cheaper dial-up services like those offered by United Online and Earthlink, but also to much faster DSL and cable-modem services that in some cases have fallen below $30 a month because of competition.By using the Netscape name for the new service, AOL will be reviving a brand associated with the internet explosion of the 1990s, when Netscape's Navigator browser introduced millions to the burgeoning world wide web.AOL bought Netscape for $10bn in 1999, as Microsoft's rival Internet Explorer was surging past Netscape to become the dominant browser. AOL sued Microsoft for allegedly using anticompetitive practices to achieve that dominance; Microsoft settled with AOL Time Warner for $750m this year.
Googlealert, a Google-tracking service thatis notGoogle itself, has announced upgrades to its services which should appeal to plenty of fellow hacks and bloggers. The service searches Google daily for you, checking the terms you want and seeing if anything new has cropped up in the last 24-hours. Previously, it would let you know the results by email, but now it's offering a variety of feeds - including HTML, RSS 1.0, RSS 2.0 and TrackBack, which means you can incorporate its results into your webpages.
"Semiconductor giant Intel Corp. said its third-quarter profit surged 142 percent from a year ago to 1.7 billion dollars, helped by strong sales of notebook computer chips, reportsAFP. "Third-quarter revenues hit 7.8 billion, up 20 percent year-over-year."
USA Today has checked out the main contendershere.
"Beginning [yesterday], Sharp Systems of America will begin selling the Actius RD3D, a notebook which can display images in '3D' without the aid of special glasses. In addition to the three-dimensional images displayed on the two-dimensional LCD by the graphics chip, the notebook can switch to a mode where two images are displayed in parallax, creating the illusion of a three-dimensional image floating in air. Sharp will sell the notebook for an estimated price of $3,299," reportsExtreme Tech.
Web users are swapping Gardener's World for Google and Coronation Street for Friends Reunited, according to research that shows the amount of time they spend on the internet is outstripping the time they spend watching television for the first time.The results of the NOP survey, which shows web users now spend more time surfing the internet than they do watching television, will make grim reading for TV advertising sales chiefs pondering the decline of the medium.On average, internet users spend three and a half hours a day on the internet compared with 2.8 hours a day watching television.The research, which is the first to suggest the internet has overtaken the television as the most popular medium among people who have both, will provide further grist to the mill of those who argue the web will eventually spell the end of linear television.The survey also showed 44% of those surveyed believed the internet rather than TV provided better news and entertainment than television, despite the relative youth of the web as a medium."The results of this survey demonstrate to what extent the internet has developed in a relatively short period of time," said Duncan Ingram, the managing director of BT Openworld, which commissioned the survey."Given the breadth of information the net holds, it's little surprise that users are flocking to the PC as their prime source of information... when you're online the possibilities are endless," he added.The results chime with predictions within the TV industry. At a recent conference, broadcasting executives forecast traditional TV schedules would be usurped by the growth of broadband and interactive technology and switch off adverts altogether.Already, Sky and the BBC are investing heavily in broadband technology to ensure they can cope with the expected changes to the broadcasting ecology.The BBC's website is the most visited in Europe and features an increasing amount of video content, while BSkyB has launched both news and sport subscriber-only broadband portals on the web.Last week the BBC director of new media, Ashley Highfield, unveiled plans for a BBC branded interactive media player that will sit on users' desktops and allow them to tap into any BBC programme from the past 14 days.And the corporation's director general, Greg Dyke, has announced parallel plans for an online programme archive that would contain thousands of hours of old BBC shows.The new statistics will also put further pressure on online sales operations to convince advertisers they should devote more of their marketing budgets to new media. At present the web takes just 1% of the 116bn spent annually on advertising in the UK, placing it well behind radio, newspapers, magazines and television.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857
Whether it was a kid in the 80s playing Pacman or a teenager today mowing down passers-by in Grand Theft Auto, computer     games have been a solitary pursuit. Not for much longer, though. Already the online portals on to which PlayStation 2 and Xbox     gamers log on to play against one another claim to have 800,000 and 500,000 users respectively - a global user base each expects     to double within a year.The huge growth has taken everyone by surprise and today BT is to throw its full corporate weight behind the phenomenon with     the launch of a connector that lets users share a broadband connection between a PC and Xbox or PS2. The launch of a wire     does not sound like earth-shattering news until one realises it is the linchpin in BT's effort to double its broadband sales to 2m     households by this time next year.The confidence that online gaming will be the main spur for the public to sign up to broadband follows a review that found as     many as four out of every five new broadband connections at BT were being sold predominantly on the basis of online gaming.This stunning statistic made BT Openworld's managing director Duncan Ingram realise the medium would be key to not only     selling more broadband connections, but also improving the company's reach in the youth market. "Online gaming is a     phenomenon that's taking off far quicker than anyone had ever thought," he admits."The analysts were saying there would be 16,000 people by now going online through their consoles, but the Xbox's online     service has got more than 50,000 signed up in the UK, just a few months after launch."Such demand has initiated a "marketing circle" - as Ingram calls it - where BT has started to work with its gaming partners Xbox     and Sony to market to a youth audience that big brands find particularly difficult to locate. Although many still watch TV, a high     proportion are instead more usually found playing computer games which, until now, meant they were largely unreachable.However the Webb Partnership, a research company, believes that now gamers are going online to join in mass communities, the     medium is on the verge of becoming the major route to the youth market. "People don't always realise how huge the market is -     more computer games are sold than DVD or videos," says David Ball, Webb's chief operating officer."Boys in their early teens spend far more time playing games than they do watching television, and now the games have moved     on from just fighting and add chat as well, we're seeing a lot more girls and young women attracted to the medium."In fact, games developer Atari believes that initiatives such as BT's partnership with Xbox and Sony will draw attention to a huge     advertising medium that most agencies have probably not considered to date."It has to be the biggest untapped youth advertising market out there," says Atari spokeswoman Louise Gabriel. "These are     people that until now have just been impossible to reach because they don't just sit around watching the ads in Coronation     Street. I think a lot of brands are being cautious and want to see how things develop. But our research predicts that the PC is     going to diminish in importance, and that by 2010 half of all gaming will be through consoles that go online and join in these huge     gaming portals."It may be a formerly "unreachable" market, but Michel Cassius, head of Xbox Europe, is warning advertisers that although the     average online user spends two-and-a-half hours on the service most nights, during prime time, it does not mean the company is     about to prioritise advertising over signing up more customers."We're not going to just let people pound our users' eyeballs with adverts," he says. "We'll be telling people what games are     coming out on Xbox, but where I could see the most growth for anyone trying to reach our audience is sponsoring tournaments."The fact that BT has seen this opportunity and partnered with Xbox and Sony is no surprise to Sandip Sarda, chairman of the     Broadband Content Coalition. In countries where broadband roll-out is more advanced than in the UK, he has witnessed some     interesting revenue generators that no telecoms company would want to miss out on."In Singapore, Korea and Japan the companies offering the broadband connection to online gaming actually make money out of     ringtones and little characters they sell on the side," he says. "They sell access to role-playing games that people take so     seriously they'll pay for all kind of merchandise, so BT has obviously seen it's a sector it cannot miss out on."The interesting thing will be if the console-makers are brave enough to try giving away games and then charging on a     pay-per-play basis - that would open up the market greatly to young people who don't always have the 40 needed to buy the     latest games."
Something's stirring across the Pond. It's not the growing feeling that George Bush might lose the election, following Papa into well-upholstered obscurity after 'winning' a Middle-Eastern war. Nor is it General Wesley Clarke's late entry into the presidential race. No, the really interesting development is the amazing campaign of Howard Dean, the   former Governor of Vermont, which is providing our first glimpses of what an internet-powered political campaign might be like.Governor Dean was, until recently, a nobody - a medic who came late to politics and was propelled in to the governorship of a small New England state on the death ofhis predecessor.In May last year, he   announced his candidacy for the presidency. The media (and political) establishments yawned politely and looked the other way. The few commentators who bothered to investigate pronounced him another George McGovern - that is to say an unelectable liberal who would do more harm than good to the Democratic cause.While the mainstream media looked the other way, Dean spent much of 2002 criss-crossing the US, canvassing opinion and seeking support. Unlike the other early Democrat hopefuls, he reckoned that the best way to proceed was to tackle the Bush junta head-on and so he   came out with vocal opposition to the US invasion of Iraq, the Bush tax cuts and the spiralling federal budget deficit.He has condemned Attorney General John Ashcroft and his odious 'patriot' and 'victory' acts, and called for Donald Rumsfeld and Paul Wolfowitz to be removed from office. And from being initially considered a long shot in a crowded field, by the summer of 2003 Dean had become one of the Democrat's top contenders.And it began to show in the campaign contributions: between April and June of this year, for example, he raised $7.6 million (including   $3.5m in eight days), far outstripping the other Democratic candidates.But the most significant thing about Dean is his use of the internet. For most US politicians, the net is a megaphone and a way to raise money. Their websites are grisly mini-portals containing speech transcripts, biographical information, a   place to buy T-shirts and campaign buttons, a sign-up box for an email newsletter plus photographs of the candidate's mom, wife, kids and dog - and of course a 'donation' link to a credit-card handling system.The average political site, in other words, is simply the webbed face of an old-style organisation.When he embarked on his campaign, however, Dean had neither organisation nor money. All he had was a voice, the guts to challenge the ruling junta - and a campaign manager named Joe Trippi, a techno-junkie with close ties to Silicon Valley and the computer industry.Trippi had the brilliant idea of harnessing the net to foster the growth of a country-wide virtual organisation of supporters.He also employed people such as Zephyr Teachout, who understood that a truly networked campaign cannot be centrally directed - it has to concede freedom and initiative to those at the edge of the network, with all the risks that entails.And guess what? It's working. Seasoned political observers began to observe something startling. Wherever Dean went in the US, large and enthusiastic crowds were waiting for him - the kinds of crowds that the conventional system can only muster after weeks of advance preparation and a large staff on the ground.Dean had nobody on the ground - nobody save the growing band of enthusiasts co-ordinated by the net. And just to underscore the point, in July this campaign raised more than $500,000 in small net contributions in just a few days.Compare that with a $2,000-a-plate fundraising lunch with Vice President Dick Cheney the same month which raked in only $300,000.Like I said, something's stirring. Watch this space.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
"Two high-profile organizations recently argued that diverse environments are inherently more secure than "monoculture" (read: Microsoft-only) environments. They argue that an organization that deploys multiple computing platforms will be inherently more secure than an organization running a single platform on all systems. While they admit costs will go up, they argue that increased security will be worth it," saysRob Enderle, the Enderle Group. "But there is no evidence that either party has actually analyzed the cost of diversity or quantified the risks of diversity. It appears clear they came up with the solution and then fit the facts of the problem into an argument that supports that conclusion."Meanwhile, over at ZD Net, John Carroll has produced a three-part series that attempts to refule the Computer &amp; Communications Industry Association report --I,IIandIII.Nota bene: (1) don't make the mistake of thinking you know what's in theCCIA reportwhen you haven't actually read it; (2) don't make the mistake of attacking my views, or I'll just delete your comments. I have not at this point expressed any views at all.
According to Ed Catmull, president of movie studio Pixar, the turning point was in 1991. That was the year that the two biggest hits at the cinema relied heavily on eye-popping computer graphics - Terminator II and, in a computer-rendered ballroom scene, Walt Disney's hand-drawn feature Beauty and the Beast.Audiences appeared ready for the first full-length computer animated film and Disney agreed to fund a movie based on Pixar's Oscar-winning short Tin Toys. Four years of hard graft later, Toy Story was released and its performance took everyone, including toymakers, by surprise. Only the luckiest kids got Buzz Lightyear dolls that Christmas. "It was totally beyond anything we ever thought. In most people's minds, including Disney's, this was just the starter film," Catmull recalls.In a business where there is no such thing as a sure-fire hit, Pixar has since proven remarkably reliable. Toy Story 2, A Bug's Life and Monsters Inc have grossed a combined $1.7bn worldwide.Now comes Finding Nemo, the adventures of an unfunny clown fish in search of his lost son. The film has darted nimbly through the flotsam and jetsam of vapid sequels in the US this summer to become the biggest animated film of all time. At the American box office alone, Finding Nemo has taken $336.5m, overtaking Disney favourite The Lion King.A sharply witty film, Finding Nemo has also won critical acclaim - the US media are even talking about Oscars. It opened across Britain yesterday.For Catmull, 58, a co-founder of Pixar and the technical brains behind the business, the success of Finding Nemo is the stunning realisation of a long-held dream. The bearded studio boss, who looks as though he might be more at home in the company of Bill Gates than in Hollywood, first had the idea of producing a feature film using computer graphics in the mid-1970s.At school Catmull had hoped to become an animator, inspired by the Disney movies Peter Pan and Pinocchio. Deciding that he wasn't good enough he instead enrolled into a degree course in the nascent field of computer science at the university of Utah, where he stumbled into graphics. He made an animated version of his left hand, which was used in the first film to incorporate 3D computer graphics, the science fiction feature Futureworld.Ten years outThat same year produced other notable alumni, including Jim Clark, the founder of Netscape, and John Warnock who founded Adobe. "I thought it would probably take 10 years to get to the point where we could really use computer graphics in movies," he says. "The reality is it took more like 20 years."Disney, which has co-funded and distributed all five of the Pixar movies, is thankful for the direction his career took - its recent traditionally animated features, notably Treasure Planet and Atlantis, have flopped miserably.The diverging fate of Pixar's computer generated films and Disney's hand-drawn efforts has even prompted speculation that the traditional art form is dead. Jeffrey Katzenberg at rival DreamWorks, smarting from the failure of his studio's latest effort, Sinbad: Legend of the Seven Seas, said recently that he would no longer produce hand-drawn movies. The announcement was significant. It was Katzenberg who had given the Disney studio new life during the 1980s with films like The Lion King.It is an assessment that causes Catmull to bristle. Pixar, he says, is a continuing part of a grand tradition of American animation, not its death knell. "We are in a new age where the computer has come in and added a kind of vitality to animation, but we love what has gone before. It is like a continuation."For me one of the great tragedies is the conclusion studios have drawn about traditional animation. I believe that 2D animation could be just as vital as it ever was. I think the problem has been with the stories. If you see a bad live action film, what are the conclusions you draw? Typically it is that they made a bunch of mistakes, a bad script, wrong casting. You get into 2D and you get a few films that are not strong films. And what is the conclusion? That it's 2D? I beg to differ. It's a convenient excuse but it's just wrong."He points to the recent masterful Japanese fantasy Spirited Away and another cartoon great, The Simpsons. "Are the Simpsons cool? They are and that is crude 2D animation."Catmull's reverence for the greats is more than talk. In Monsters Inc, the swankiest restaurant in town is Harryhausen's. It's the kind of joke that only the nerdiest film buff would get, an homage to Ray Harryhausen, who created the monsters for classics including the Sinbad films and Jason and the Argonauts. Catmull has a signed poster on his office wall of one of Harryhausen's creations; a fierce-looking blue medusa with a serpent's tail.After graduating, Catmull wound up at Lucasfilm during the first Star Wars trilogy, running the computer graphics department. The division was put up for sale in 1985, and a "gruesome year" later Catmull convinced Steve Jobs, recently ousted from Apple Computer, to stump up $10m.For the next five years Pixar struggled, making commercials, selling software licences and producing short films until the deal with Disney came along. "If we had been funded by venture capitalists they would have shut us down," Catmull says. "Steve was not a VC. He was looking at what we could become."The company floated on Wall Street shortly after the release of Toy Story and the shares have gone from $22 to $71. Jobs pumped in another $50m along the way, but the investment has paid off. He still owns 55% of the business, a stake worth around $2.2bn. Based in Emeryville, California, close to Oakland and across the bay from San Francisco, Pixar is closer to Silicon Valley than it is to Hollywood. The business is housed in a building designed to look like a cavernous old warehouse, in fact commissioned only a few years ago. The walls are exposed brick, workers zip around on scooters, there is an outdoor amphitheatre for local bands, a pool, pilates classes and cinemas.The artists' area is like stepping into a fleshed out cartoon. Each of the animators has an individual wooden shack. One is transformed into a cowboy saloon, including swing doors - another, painted candy pink, has dismembered doll limbs "growing" in a flowerbox.The company is working on several new projects. Next up is The Incredibles - the story of a band of undercover superheroes in suburbia. Then comes Cars, a classic car, route 66, road movie and Ratatouille, about a rat who lives in a posh restaurant.The quality of the graphics has moved on significantly since Toy Story. "The reason we picked toys was that we could do them," Catmull says. "They are made of plastic. We were at the hairy edge of what we could do."For Finding Nemo, the firm was able to capture the murk of the sea and the dazzling qualities of the Great Barrier Reef. The underwater scenes were researched exhaustively. Chief animators were sent on scuba diving trips, a 25-gallon fish tank was installed in the studio and videos of The Blue Planet were mandatory viewing. The result is characters that, although humanised, move with startling realism."Each time the tools are allowing us to put more in there and build better worlds. The lusciousness in Nemo is unlike anything in the other films. It's important to put things in there that you wouldn't even notice, that might please the experts. You never do just enough," Catmull says. The Incredibles though will be the first film to mainly feature human beings. "It is a totally different challenge. The humans in our previous films were not the strongest element."The success of Finding Nemo has strengthened Pixar's hand in talks with Disney to renegotiate its distribution deal. Under the existing arrangement, the two companies share profits after Disney has taken a 12.5% cut. Pixar has also been talking to rival studios. Last year, Pixar made $90m but the potential is to earn far more. The company is debt free and has $500m in the bank.Historic"We're talking with Disney. If it doesn't work out we have other alternatives," Catmull says. "But we've had a great relationship with Disney. There's been nothing like this in Hollywood history." Other studios, including Sony and Dreamworks, are rushing to get computer-animated movies into cinemas. Disney is producing its own versions of The Snow Queen and Rapunzel. Even IBM wants in.Catmull has forecast an impending "train wreck" akin to the boom and bust of traditional animation that began in the mid-1980s. He maintains that although the freshness of the graphics has helped to make Pixar movies popular, the key has been the quality of the story telling.At Pixar, the aim is to ramp up production to one film a year, but no further. "In the corporations there is certainly the mentality of playing the numbers. If you put out 20 films you hope that a number are successful. It's like human reproduction versus frog reproduction. Frogs produce thousands and hope a few succeed. Humans don't produce many babies but put a lot of energy into them, which is kind of where we are. They still don't always succeed but you try a lot harder."
The launch of the Nokia's N-Gage gaming-platform-cum-phone this week might not have been accompanied by the kind of sales flurry and attention that its creator would have liked, but it does highlight the growing importance of portable gaming as a way of capturing the much sought-after "casual gamer".2003 has definitely been the year of portable gaming, both on handheld machines and mobile phones. Mobile gaming alone is estimated by industry analysts Screen Digest as being worth 50m in this country by the end of the year, rising to 211m by 2006.Alongside the N-Gage launch, we've also seen the release of Nintendo's GBA-SP in April and the announcement of Sony's PlayStation Portable (PSP), which was excitedly hyped-up by Sony Computer Entertainment's CEO, Ken Kutaragi, as "the Walkman of the 21st century".This new-found emphasis on building up the portable gaming experience has resulted from a two-fold need. First, the desire to give people more to do with their mobile phones, especially after basic mobile games such as Snake and Tetris have proven very popular. Second, there is a general move towards pushing gaming forward in different areas, in order to reach a more mainstream audience."Mobile games, commonly considered the simpler cousin of the PlayStation generation,...are opening up gaming to the masses," explains journalist and TV presenter Aleks Krotoski, who has just finished travelling the country with Vodafone's Live Arcade tour, which hosted the world's first mobile gaming championships."This tour has been about exposing people to the leaps and bounds mobile gaming has made, and events like this represent the first step in a mainstream acceptance of gaming."The tour itself was about introducing those who are already playing games on their phone to the wider world of gaming, which is at the heart of the mobile gaming boom. Due to their penetration and social acceptance, phones are being seen as a "softly, softly" way of coaxing people into playing games, without bombarding them with technology they're not used to.On the other side of the gaming gap sits the target audience for the GBA-SP and the PSP, the more dedicated gamers who don't need to be coaxed into anything and enjoy the play-anywhere approach.So far the signs are pretty good; sales of the GBA-SP have hit the 2 million mark in Europe, with a worldwide figure of 9 million, while the PlayStation Portable, which is due to be released next year and will also be able to play music files (as well as films, according to the rumours) is currently caught-up in a whirlwind of hype and anticipation - like so many Sony products.Nokia has made a brave move in trying to bridge the gap between phones and more hardcore gaming, and the N-Gage is very obviously being pushed as a "proper" games platform.Many critics, however, believe that in Nokia's rush to produce the ultimate gaming phone, they haven't delivered well enough on either feature; it is priced at a hefty 255, and inexplicably requires the user to take the battery out to insert or swap games and, to top things off, it is also pretty cumbersome to use as an actual phone.But time will tell whether Nokia can successfully occupy this shaky space between the softcore and hardcore gamer.Another interesting aspect in the development of portable gaming this year is the way it's grown up in terms of packaging and marketing. The GBA-SP went for a sleek and compact look, while targeting an older age group by advertising in many lads' magazines.The N-Gage's advertising slogan is "Anyone, anywhere" and its price certainly puts it out reach of most kids. The PSP, meanwhile, is seeking an audience of its own by offering a range of other entertainment features as part of its overall package.As we watch games grow up, portable gaming must surely represent the puberty period, where the most visual changes are occurring and a new audience (outside of the usual living-room crowd) is targeted. If the industry can sustain this pace in 10 years time, gaming will have developed into a very different creature indeed.Charts - full price softwareOfficial UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA compiled by Chart-Track1) Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2004 (PS2, Xbox, PC, GC) Electronic Arts - 37.992) Soul Calibur II (GC, PS2, Xbox) Nintendo/Electronic Arts - 37.993) Hulk (PS2, Xbox, GC, PC) VU Games - 20.994) Formula One 2003 (PS2) 20.995) Conflict Desert Storm II (PS2, Xbox, PC) SCI - 39.996) Eyetoy: Play (PS2) Sony - 39.997) Colin McRae Rally 4 (PS2, Xbox) Codemasters - 39.998) Freedom Fighters (PS2, Xbox, GC, PC) Electronic Arts9) Medal of Honor: Allied Assault: Breakthrough (PC) Electronic Arts - 19.9910) Warhammer 40,000: Fire Warrior (PS2, PC) - 34.99
At a Siemens press conference earlier this week I sat next to a public  relations executive from the Austrian branch of 3G network Three. She told me how many handsets Three has sold in Austria, how popular the key applications  like video calling and video downloading have proved to be, and how Austria is  the only country in the world with two competing 3G networks.After finishing her spiel, she then turned to me and asked: "Why is the  press in the UK so negative about Three and 3G?"I thought of telling her about a botched launch with a network that did not  work properly. Of ridiculous targets that the network had set itself - one  million subscribers by the end of 2003. Of stupid restrictions on handsets,  which means that owners of Three's flagship phone, the Motorola A920, can't access the full internet,  just a small selection of sites. (Austria's Three  subscribers get full Internet access.) And most of all of how disappointing the handsets themselves have been.Instead I just smiled and said the opposite was true now and that in the  great British tradition of rooting for the underdog, the UK media seem to be  warming to Three.To be fair there are many good reasons why Three is starting to get a better press. I have heard plenty of anecdotal evidence from friends with Three  phones that the network is starting to function properly. Three has also  launched some interesting new services, such as enabling users to make video  calls to Three subscribers in other countries including Austria and Italy. It now has Champions League as well as Premiership football highlights, and music fans can download the latest pop videoes courtesy of MTV.Finally the company seems to have availed itself of some  interesting handsets. Early models, such as the clamshell NEC e606, worked  reasonably well. But that phone had many drawbacks in that it was a tad large,  had an impenetrable interface and relied on putting on a headset to  make a video call. Other NEC phones were even bulkier.There are phones on their way that have the wow factor the early  handsets lacked, however. Here is what the company is lining up for the end of this year  and the start of 2004.Motorola A920The A920 is the flagship of Three's handset range. It uses the same Symbian operating system as found on the Sony Ericsson P800 and  Nokia 3650. This phone's video performance, both in terms of video calling and playback  of downloaded clips, is vastly superior to other Three phones. To make the most  of this, it sports a huge screen that can used in either portrait or landscape  mode. Another key facility is AGPS (Assisted Global Positioning System) which  enables the handset to show maps of how a person can find a route to a  restaurants, cashpoints and so on. From a phone lover's perspective it would be the  perfect phone were it not so large.Motorola A925This handset tackles the A920's biggest weakness  in that it offers all the same features of the handset, but in a significantly  smaller frame. It may arrive in the UK before the end of the year.Motorola A935/Siemens U15Give or take the slightly different styling and  interfaces these are essentially the same phone. The models both have plenty of  features including video calling/ video download (at rates that are superior to  the early phones but not as good as the A920) AGPS, MP3 and video playback. The  phone is smaller than the A920 and could appeal to those who like chocolate bar-style handsets. The Motorola version is due any time with the Siemens handset  coming next month.NEC e616This is the successor to the clamshell e606 which,  by some distance, has been Three's most popular phone. The updated version is  smaller and lighter than its predecessor and boasts better battery life, which  was one of the major criticisms of the 606. It also has a colour screen on the  front. Crucially it can switch between GPRS and 3G networks, enabling Three  subscribers to send images and check their email in areas where there is no  Three video coverage. It should be available next month.LG U8100The LG U8100 proves that 3G phones don't have to be huge. This small and light handset looks and feels more like a GPRS  camera phone than a 3G video model. LG has crammed many features into its  compact frame including video calling, video capture and playback, MP3/AAC  music, Bluetooth and Java. It is launching in the UK early next year, almost  certainly through the Three network.Motorola V1000Motorola's V range of compact clamshell phone will  embrace 3G with this model early next year. Almost certain to be available via  the Three network, the V1000 has two cameras (for video calling), two displays,  and an internal antenna.And one Three won't be touching ...Nokia 7660An unusual tear-shaped 3G handset that is crammed with  entertaining facilities. It does not,  however, feature Three signature application  video calling, so the network almost certainly will not be offering it. It might be  available though other networks with as a GPRS phone.
Scottish computer chip designer Wolfson Microelectronics was ambushed yesterday by one of its major American rivals, throwing its plans to float next week into confusion.In a surprise 11th hour move, Texas-based Cirrus Logic announced late on Thursday night that it is suing Wolfson for patent infringement - a move that could cause Wolfson to postpone its flotation.Wolfson, spun out of Edinburgh University, designs chips that convert analogue signals into digital signals. They are used in products from Microsoft's Xbox to Dell handheld computers.Cirrus alleges that 15 of Wolfson's chips - most of which are found in DVD players - infringe two of its patents.The company yesterday refused to say how much compensation it is seeking.Wolfson was due to float on the London Stock Exchange on Tuesday, and analysts expected it to be valued at upwards of &#163;200m, making it the largest technology flotation in the UK for well over a year.The flotation will make paper millionaires of David Milne and Jim Reid, who set up the business in 1984.Wolfson said yesterday that the patent case came out of the blue."At no stage has Cirrus had any contact with Wolfson directly on this subject, and the board is surprised by this unexpected disclosure," it said in a statement.The board is expected to meet this weekend to assess the potential impact and will update investors on Monday, but an insider admitted last night that the flotation could be delayed.One of the company's original backers, who did not want to be named, said last night that the Cirrus action was deliberately designed to scupper Wolfson's plans. He said normal procedure for a company that believes its patents are being infringed is to write a letter and begin negotiations to settle a deal. "You would never go straight to court," he said."Wolfson has been winning a lot of business off Cirrus," he added. "It would be ridiculous to delay the flotation, that is just what they want."
News.comreports: "Apple Computer is expected next week to expand its online music service to Windows-based computers... The Mac maker has scheduled an event for next Thursday at San Francisco's Moscone West convention hall. 'The year's biggest music story is about to get even bigger,' Apple said in an invitation to journalists."
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premiere online current affairs forum!connecting to server...Current Host: Chris2Current Topic: Iain Duncan Smith's fiery speech to the Tory faithful in Blackpool received a huge ovation, but rumours of an imminent leadership challenge persist. Should IDS step down? If he did, who would be the best person to lead the Conservative party into the next election? What do you think?Bronco: go ahed make my dayLadeezMan: that aint terminater neitherBronco: you talkin to meLadeezMan: have u actually seen the terminatorBronco: only the one were he teaches nurseryHost_Chris2: what about the Tories? Do they have a chance at winning the next general election?capitalistpiglet: never. all their policies boil down to cutting tax - they're pandering to the electorateLadeezMan: I woud vote for less taxBronco: u dont pay taxLadeezMan: on fags I doPashmina has entered the NewsRoomPashmina: Roomcapitalistpiglet: hi pashHost_Chris2: hi Pashmina. What's your opnion? Do you think that Duncan Smith should quit?Pashmina: Dont even try. Im sick of footballBronco: I always vote libdemcapitalistpiglet: really?Bronco: noPashmina: but if he cant be botherd to wee in a cup then yes!!!Bronco: I never voteHost_Chris2: Iain Duncan Smith isn't a footballer. He's the Tory leader.capitalistpiglet: not for longBronco: dont know why I even said itPashmina: then he shoudnt do drugs at all!Host_Chris2: he doesn'tBronco: but how do u knowLadeezMan: has any1 tasted his urineLadeezMan: tested evenHost_Chris2: we're getting off the subjectPashmina: u started it Chris2capitalistpiglet: perhaps all IDS needs is a new catchphrase, like ArniePashmina: how did HE become president! Hes not even a real person!capitalistpiglet: something like "I wont be back"LadeezMan: "hasta al vista"Bronco: whasssssuuuupPashmina: "my wee is clean"LadeezMan: read my lips: no fag taxHost_Chris2: let's return to the topic, peoplePashmina: thats yours Chris2Bronco: oh behaveLadeezMan: u dont get it do u BroncoBronco: hey forget about it&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
A 64-year-old man who used a false teenage persona to prey on young girls in MSN internet chatrooms was today sentenced to five years in prison.Police called Douglas Lindsell, 64, of Twickenham, "the most prolific internet groomer ever caught" and said his conversations with the girls were "overtly sexual in nature". Scotland Yard said Lindsell pretended to be a teenage boy in online teenager zones, allowing him to correspond with 54 girls in the UK. He compiled explicit sexual profiles of over 20 girls.Lindsell obtained private email addresses and mobile numbers to continue his "grooming" before arranging to meet two of his victims, aged 13 and 14, and attempting to entice them into his car.In some cases Lindsell, based on his conversations with young women, had researched the likely school they attended from their school uniforms. He then turned up at the school to try and find them, police said.Even after police arrested Lindsell and confiscated his computer as part of their investigation, he continued to contact the girls, trying to get them to delete emails and text messages that would identify him.One 14-year-old girl who Lindsell chatted to online described his approach: "He was asking me lots of questions and what I looked like and what my school uniform was like. I didn't give him my number or anything, but I told him what my uniform was like and the colour and stuff."Then the police told me he went to my school's website and found my school on internet maps. He must have been trying to find me," she said.The girl's mother called for Lindsell and other like him to be locked away for life."My daughter is a bright young girl who is not easily led. However, despite my repeated warning to her over internet chatrooms, she was, for a while, taken in by this man. He befriended her at a vulnerable time in her life. Thankfully, she eventually saw him for what he is," she said.DCI Chris Watts of Twickenham police station said: "Lindsell had a system of  meeting, grooming and attracting young girls with a clear intent, and that was  to commit an act of indecent assault. He was obsessive in his pursuit of underage girls, and continued to pursue them via an interactive cable channel which provided email facilities, after we had confiscated his computer."This story represents effective police intervention at an early stage. I believe that if Lindsell had not been caught when he was, it is extremely likely he would have proceeded to successfully abduct and assault children. As we have seen tragically on too many occasions in the past, this kind of behaviour can have the worst consequences," he added.In August, Lindsell pleaded guilty to the attempted abduction of a female child under 14 years, and perverting the course of justice. The perverting the course of justice charge related to Lindsell contacting victims and asking them to delete text messages and emails following his arrest.Lindsell further pleaded guilty to gross indecency towards a female child under 16 years of age, making indecent images of children, and two counts of sexual and threatening harassment of a girl. Eight indecent images of children were recovered from his computer.He pleaded not guilty to a further attempted abduction of a girl under 14 years old and to gross indecency towards girls under six years old.In addition to the five year prison sentence, Kingston crown court today placed Lindsell on the sex offenders register for 10 years, and placed him under a restraining  order which prohibits any employment that would engage him in contact with children under the age of 16.MSN announced just last month that it was closing down its internet chatrooms in the UK in response to fears that paedophiles were preying on children online.Police are asking anyone who believes they may have encountered Lindsell before to contact the public protection unit at Twickenham police station on 020 8247 7014.
Question:How old are you?Answer:Fourteen.Question:You were 13 when this happened though, right?She nods.Question:Tell me what happened.Answer:I was bored  after school and went on to this chatroom that I visit sometimes. I don't spend hours on it, but just when I'm bored. I sometimes talk to my friends from school, and we all meet up in this chat room.Question:Is this a teenager's chat zone?Answer:Yes, it's on MSN.Question:When did you meet Lindsell?Answer:He came on and asked if I would like to chat, and I invited him into to my chat zone. He was asking my age and we got chatting.Question:Was he trying to make friends?Answer:He was trying to get my email address and phone number, but after a while I thought he was weird. He kept changing his age between 15 and 19, and then started sending nasty emails saying, I'm gonna find you and I'm gonna XXXX you and stuff.So I deleted them and stopped talking to him and blocked him from my account. But he changed his email address and I let him back in. He changed after I blocked him out the first time and started being really nice. In the end I decided I didn't want to talk to him though. He was weird. The way he talked and the way he spelt was not like other teenagers.Then he asked if he could ring me and told me he had cancer, so if I ever spoke to him on the phone and thought his voice was weird it was because of the cancer steroids he was taking.Question:How much personal information did you give him?Answer:He was asking me lots of questions and what I looked like and what my school uniform was like. I didn't give him my number or anything, but I told him what my uniform was like and the colour and stuff. Then the police told me he went to my school's website and found my school on internet maps. He must have been trying to find me.Question:Do you  think you had a lucky escape?Answer:I thought I was lucky. I sussed him out. I thought he was weird and was calling him a freak and stuff. He wanted to set up a meeting.Question:Do you think he was trying to manipulate you?Answer:He was trying. It's just the little things I didn't think mattered like my uniform. It's scary that someone was doing that. I think there needs to be some proof that the person is who he says he is before you can trust them or chat to them about yourself too much. I hardly go onto chatrooms anymore and don't give out my email.The girl's mother was also interviewed.Question:Tell me what happened to your daughter.Answer:She likes going onto the internet to chat. Kids can't just go out and about like they used to. I suppose it is just a sign of the times.This man made contact as a teenager, but then started sending rude and threatening emails, so my daughter stopped contact. He then changed his email address and got back in somehow.Question:Your daughter is quite sensible, though?Answer:This was very dangerous for her, but she wised up. She is sensible and didn't actually give out much personal information. Still, from the school uniform alone, this man could have been sitting outside her school waiting for her. He knew what she looked like from her profile on the chat room.You don't think this kind of thing is going to happen to you. Me and my daughter have a good relationship and she speaks to me about lots of things.Question:Was he trying to manipulate your daughter?Answer:After the rude and threatening emails he started being nice and saying he was really sorry, and he would never hurt her and the like. He then said he had cancer. Even I was taken in and felt sorry for him when my daughter was calling him a freak. I thought he had cancer.If I was taken in, someone more vulnerable than my daughter would be easy prey. The police say he went further with a lot of the girls, trying to abduct them. Who's to say what could've happened? I think we have been very lucky.
Yahoo! posted a doubling of its quarterly profit yesterday on strong advertising. Shares in the internet firm were up just over 1% at $39.22 in after-hours trading in New York following an initial enthusiastic reaction to the earnings report.The California-based firm reported a net profit for the third quarter of $65.3m (&#163;40.8m), compared with $28.9m a year ago. Revenue was $356.8m, compared to $248.8m in the same period last year.Revenue in marketing services, the company's division responsible for advertising and sponsored search services, rose 48% year-on-year to $245.1m. Yahoo!'s revenue in the unit is watched by analysts as a bellwether of strength in the internet advertising sector.The company posted 38% growth in its fees revenue, due mostly to its internet access partnership with SBC Communications, and other premium services such as games on demand. It also saw 26% growth in listings revenue, mostly from its HotJobs employment search service.The company said it ended the quarter with 4.2 million paying subscribers, compared with 3.5 million the previous quarter and 1.5 million a year ago.For the fiscal year, Yahoo! raised its guidance for profit before depreciation and amortisation to $428m-$448m against previous estimates of $375m-$400m.
You started using computers in the studio for making Hobosapiens? We usedLogicfor the mix and Pro-Tools for the actual recording. It was very useful to start using computers for scoring. I often get asked for a very simple piano score or electronic score. It has speeded up the way I work - it's so easy to explore a variety of different options very quickly.I used to own a studio but I got fed up with owning equipment that really wasn't proven. I noticed that my engineer was, up until about a year ago,  spending more time on tech-support than on recording. Unless you have a fully fledged tech-support system in place then it didn't really make sense for me. Now things are better and more stable, and the applications are greatly improved.You have even taken to using laptops live?For the live shows, we've been usingAbleton Liveon the Mac PowerBooks. At the recent Festival Hall gig we used the computer's CPU (central processing unit) and it crashed, so on this tour we haven't been using it. With the CPU you had to keep it racing as it was eating up so much memory. We were processing everything at the Festival Hall, voices, keyboards. It was just too much.Broadband?I have it at home but I found a Swiss company calledEurospot, which allows you high-speed connections in hotel chains like the Hilton. My problem is that I'd like to be online all the time - I'd have every blade of grass in Hyde Park with a high-speed line in it! That said, Bryant Park in New York is totally 802.11 compatible, andwww.80211-planet.comis a great site for Wi-Fi with hotspot locations in the States and Europe.You use Wi-Fi then?Yes, my PowerBook is fitted with a wireless card. I also know now that you can "steal" WLan (wireless local-area network) stuff. Apparently, there's a place in a wall at Islington that's knee level and they'll give you the new DNS (domain name system). No doubt you'd have to crouch at some weird angle to get it but I love the energy and ideas coming out of this little subculture.Pop-ups?I have a friend who works for the &lt;A HREF="http://www.latimes.com"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;LA Timesand I mentioned to him that its online site is atrocious for the number of pop-up ads. Now I have OS X, which will cancel those pop-ups, but I still think people would pay a little extra on subscriptions to get rid of all the adverts.Weblog?I have only really just got my own site together and I want to work on having a personal relationship with the site, as it's a new experience for me - kind of "be gentle as it's my first time"! I want to send them stuff to post on the site when we're out touring and I have to figure out how that all works. I'm online all the time - I use the internet more than I watch television. Speed is king although it's never fast enough.John Cale's bookmarkswww.atimes.comwww.scmp.comwww.80211-planet.comwww.debka.comwww.cryptome.orgVisit:www.john-cale.com
The monitor on your personal computer is one of the most important elements in the system, for several reasons.A better monitor gives higher productivity by allowing you to see more information at once. Time spent zooming and panning around the screen is wasted time. There's no point in having high bandwidth networks and internet connections if there's a bottleneck between the computer and the user!The quality and set-up of the monitor can affect your comfort, especially if you use the system for extended periods.The monitor is often the most expensive component in the system. If you're an employer, you have a legal duty to make sure you have considered the displays being used by your staff.There are two main technologies in use: cathode ray tubes (CRT) and liquid crystal displays (LCD).CRT monitors are cheaper and have advantages including very good colours for graphics applications, versatility for running different resolutions, and high speed for games and videos. They are heavy and bulky and can use a lot of power.The 17in screen is the best value CRT at the moment, but for intensive users, 19in or 21in products are worth the extra. For the best visual quality, look for a flat-faced monitor with an aperture grille. FST or "rounded" CRTs are only used on the cheapest products these days.A CRT monitor should last around 20,000 hours - 10 years of normal office use - but a critical user would probably want to upgrade every four or five years, as performance tends to degrade gently.LCDs - the very flat panels that are also used in notebook computers - are the new technology. They are very thin, use less power than CRTs, and some studies have shown that users can read more quickly from them, especially older users. However, LCDs cost more and are less versatile than CRTs, because they only give really good performance at one fixed resolution, and this can mean too small a text size for some. Also, most LCDs don't have such good colours as CRTs, and can smear with fast graphics.There are two basic classes of LCD: those built for lower cost, and those built for quality. The low-cost ones tend to have a narrow viewing angle, so performance drops off quickly if you look at the screen from anything other than an optimum angle, especially from above or below. Better LCDs have wider viewing   angles and faster response times.Today, 15in is the entry-level size for LCDs, but 17in models show 66% more data on the screen and can cost less per dot. LCDs with wider viewing angles and better speed are 17in or above. If you care about graphics, look for a monitor with gamma correction, which matches the LCD closer to a CRT for viewing images.An LCD should last 50,000 to 60,000 hours, so the extra cost may be a good investment.With LCD monitors, it's relatively easy to add TV tuner functions (all monitors can display TV images with a special card inside the PC). Extra import duty can make the monitor more expensive. If you want TV, try to get a demonstration as slow response can make viewing "smeary" and features such as teletext are not always well supported.
What do you get if you cross a phone with a games console? Maybe something like the N-Gage, the newest kid on the gaming block. Nokia's new baby, launched this week, is designed to grab a slice of the lucrative games industry pie, with the Research Room predicting that wireless gaming alone will be generating global revenues of $41.3billion by 2007.The N-Gage is the first attempt to properly marry the mobile and gaming worlds. The focus is on wireless multiplayer gaming via Bluetooth and, eventually, GPRS. "We aim to appeal to social gamers who like to play on the move," says Mark Squires, Nokia UK's director of communications.The games business is a tough market to break into. Microsoft made a slow start with Xbox, especially with pricing, but Squires is confident Nokia won't repeat those mistakes. "We are already in everyone's pockets and we don't feel we are entering a new industry."There are other barriers, though. The Game Boy brand is synonymous with handheld gaming, and there are a variety of other devices, such as laptops and portable DVD players, that appeal to N-Gage's target audience."The N-Gage may appeal to the older gamer and businessman who wants to play portable games but is self-conscious about pulling a Game Boy out of his briefcase," says Nigel Davies, chief executive of developers Blitz Games.The N-Gage itself is light, although not as stylish as smaller, dedicated mobiles. But while it looks fine, in a boys-toy style, the same can't be said of making a call. The speaker and earpiece are on the straight spine of the phone, so talking involves holding the top end to your ear. Perfect if you like the idea of a silver taco protruding from your face, less ideal otherwise.The triband N-Gage uses the Symbian operating system and has all the standard features, as well as MP3 and FM radio playback. So making a call aside, the N-Gage is a well-designed and generously fitted phone. But   Nokia is pitching N-Gage as a games console and, in those terms, the verdict is mixed.The biggest design flaw is the loading system. To load or change a game involves unclipping the back, taking out the battery, sliding in the MMC card, refitting the battery and sliding the back in place. Not only does this discourage a 10-minute go on the bus, it makes playing on the go fiddly. Squires is aware of this, but defends it as a benefit. "We designed it so people wouldn't lose their games while travelling."There are other snags, such as the lack of analogue control (extremely helpful for 3D games) and lengthy loading times. But graphically, N-Gage packs a powerful punch. The backlit screen is clear and bright, if a little small. The much vaunted 3D visuals are striking and a step-up from the GBA SP. Seeing Tomb Raider in all its PlayStation 1 glory is impressive. Sadly, the controls and erratic camera have also been ported over, making Tomb Raider a tough game to play on such a small screen. This is a recurring problem. Squinting at 3D graphics on the diminutive screen can cause headaches.N-Gage's USP is multiplayer. We couldn't test the GPRS services, which include tips and high scores, but Bluetooth worked well. Connecting devices was straightforward, if not quite as quick as expected.The launch titles are a decent mix, covering most genres. With publishers such as EA, Eidos and Sega on board, support, at least initially, looks strong. The pick is Tony Hawk's Pro Skater. Not only have the visuals of the PS1 original been replicated but the addictive and rewarding gameplay has, too. Bluetooth multiplayer is impressive, with some excellent multiplayer options.For those who prefer their sports motorised, Moto GP should appeal, especially in multiplayer. Elsewhere, there is Pandemonium, an attractive pseudo-3D platformer, and Red Faction, a first-person shooter. Throw in Splinter Cell's sneaky adventuring and Super Monkey Ball's deceptively simple action, and you have a varied and solid launch line-up.But succeeding in the industry takes more than just decent titles and a lofty vision. Price is important. At around &#163;225, the N-Gage is not cheap and Davies feels this needs to change.There is also the feeling that N-Gage is very much a work in progress. For everything Nokia has got right - variety of titles, Bluetooth and 3D graphics - there are unforgivable flaws, such as the difficulty in switching games. Maybe the next generation will fix these but, for now, N-Gage is an interesting curio rather than essential purchase.
The game just got more complexSony has finally taken the wraps off its latest incarnation of the PlayStation - the PSX. More than just a gaming device, the PSX features an existing PS2 alongside a TV tuner, DVD player/recorder and 160 Gigabyte hard disk for storing video/audio content. The company hopes the PSX will appeal to mainstream consumer electronics buyers looking to replace their VCRs with DVD/hard disk recorders. Two versions go on sale in Japan in November. The standard PSX features a 160 Gigabyte hard disk and will retail for &#163;430, while a deluxe machine with a 250 Gigabyte disk will be available for around &#163;500.Sony has also lined up a DVD recorder with a 160 Gigabyte hard drive for launch in November that will retail for about &#163;550. Although the company hasn't yet confirmed a launch date for the PSX in other countries, it is widely expected to go on sale in the UK and US in the second quarter of 2004.www.sony.co.ukCamerasImage consciousCasio has significantly upped the ante in the Japanese camera phone market by introducing a handset that can take two megapixel images - the equivalent of many mid-range digital cameras. At the CEATEC exhibition in Chiba, Japan, it showed off the A5403CA clamshell phone, which also features high-end facilities such as auto-focus, a 10x digital zoom and a movie function. It goes on sale in Japan in December. The highest resolution camera phones on sale in the UK take VGA images, which are less than one megapixel.At the same exhibition, Sony unveiled Mobile Movie, an application that will enable mobile phone owners to record TV programmes on to a Memory Stick storage card and later watch them on their mobile phone. Several makers have already shown phones compatible with the system and it is expected a version of Mobile Movie will be available to UK phone owners next year.www.casio.co.ukwww.sony.co.ukMobile PhonesJuice on the goToshiba believes it has the answer for mobile phone users who are always running out of juice. It has unveiled the world's smallest direct methanol fuel cell (DMFC) - which can be used to charge most portable devices without requiring mains power. Apparently, the palm-sized 100 x 60 x 30mm unit, which is small enough to fit in a trouser pocket or handbag, can fully charge a mobile phone six times before its power is spent. A similar product for laptops is due to launch next year, with the DMFC for mobiles set for a 2005 debut.www.toshiba.co.ukRugby highlightsIf you cannot skive off work to watch the Rugby World Cup - which kicks off in Australia at 10am tomorrow morning - O2 is offering to stream half and full-time highlights to mobile phones through its O2 Active service. The coverage marks the launch of the company's new mobile video service that will also offer a range of news, comedy, fashion and "extreme" sports. You won't need an expensive 3G handset to watch the highlights, either, although you will need to subscribe to O2 Active and have a video-enabled mobile such as the Nokia 3650, Sony Ericsson P800 or O2's forthcoming XDA 2 palmtop. The service is free until January 31, although you will have to pay for the data transfer. Average length of the clips will be about 10 seconds.SoftwareIn touch with HQNow you can read Microsoft Word documents and Adobe PDFs on the screen of mobile phones without requiring a brand new smartphone. The Nokia Access Mobilizer is a new piece of corporate software that allows employees to read attachments and access corporate intranets while on the move. Even an old Wap phone will do as the software is designed to sense the display requirements of each individual mobile device and is able to reformat the content. Changes to the diary can be made and task lists altered without a return to the office. It could bring new levels of productivity to mobile workers or be an employee's   worse nightmare. We can't quite decide.InternetKitchen linkA new version of the Internet Fridge, a tall American-style cool-box that features a mini PC and 15in LCD screen and allows users to go online, is to launch in the UK early next year. The device's manufacturer, Korean company LG, has kept the basic design of the original model but updated its operating system from Windows 98 to XP. The other core enhancement is that the fridge's 15in LCD screen can now be removed from the main unit and used wirelessly. Via an 802.11b Wi-Fi connection, owners will be able to check email and surf the net on the screen anywhere in the home. The fridge can also be used to play MP3s, take pictures and videos and tune into TV programmes.www.lge.co.ukOut of dateBlogging - setting up your own online journal - is supposed to be sweeping the internet world. But a survey by Perseus Development, has found that two thirds of all the blogs surveyed had not been updated in two months. The reason is that it is now so easy to set up a blog that   people don't feel any commitment to continuing them. An estimated 1m blogs were one-day wonders with no postings on subsequent days. Blogs are also updated less frequently than supposed, according to Perseus. Active blogs are updated on average every 14 days. Fewer than 50,000 are updated daily. The total number of blogs in existence is reckoned to be over 4m.Stat of the week:The worm that turnedVirus-spreading emails took off again last month. The Worm/Sobig.F soared to the top of the table despite a self-termination date of September 10. By then, it had done enough damage to claim 67.5% of all occurrences in the month.
The tiny microchip measures less than a third of a millimetre wide, little bigger than a grain of sand. It can contain information on anything from retail prices to washing instructions to your medical records. It might look innocuous, but invisible to the naked eye is a microscopic antenna that allows it to be read by a scanning device with a maximum range of 100m. The tiny chip is called a radio frequency identification tag and last month, in Chicago, it was heralded as the global successor to the barcode.First deployed by the Royal Air Force during the second world war, radio frequency identification (RFid) is a technology that has been rapidly shrinking in size and cost. Secreted into the swipe cards we use to get into work, injected into our pets if we migrate abroad, even attached to the wrists of POWs during the war in Iraq, the ever-smaller tags have become an integral part of our lives without many of us noticing.That is, until now. Last month, a controversial network to connect many of the millions of tags that are already in the world (and the billions more on their way) was launched at the McCormick Place conference centre on the banks of Lake Michigan. Roughly 1,000 delegates from across the worlds of retail, technology and academia gathered for the launch of the electronic product code (EPC) network. Their aim was to replace the global barcode with a universal system that can provide a unique number for every object in the world. Some have already started calling this network "the internet of things".The launch of the EPC came just weeks after Wal-Mart - the biggest retailer in the world - demanded   that its main 100 suppliers place RFid tags on all its pallets and cases by 2005. But just as the tags begin to be placed on retail items, a small but determined opposition is stirring up a storm of protest.Chris McDermott is 34. He is married with children and works as a PR manager for a diet firm. In his striped rugby shirt, he looks nothing like your archetypal activist. As he sips a coffee in downtown Swindon, he says he has never protested before. He has a new baby, a new job and is in the middle of moving house. And yet about once a month, McDermott steals an afternoon to stand outside the Sandhurst branch of Tesco to protest about RFid."This could be the ultimate surveillance tool," he says. "The idea that everything that is made could soon have a tiny chip in it that can be readable. That's what scares me the most." McDermott, who last month launched an anti-RFid website -NoTags.co.uk - says he has no problem with companies using RFid in its supply chain management. But he fears we will lose our privacy unless the tags are kept off individual goods.McDermott counts himself as one of the first of a dedicated band of activists. This global opposition revolves around a small, but influential, pressure group called Caspian (consumers against supermarket privacy invasion and numbering) run by Katharine Albrecht. What makes this new generation of privacy advocates picket supermarkets and lobby politicians is the desire to create a greater public awareness of RFids and the EPC network before both become commonplace.The EPC network is run by an organisation called the Auto ID Centre: a global consortium of retailers and   academics based at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in Boston. Founded in 1999 by Gillette, Proctor &amp; Gamble and Unilever, the consortium now boasts 100 global companies and five of the world's leading research centres, including the University of Cambridge and MIT.The centre came up with the concept of the internet of things. This poetic description can be expressed as the building of a global infrastructure for RFid tags. You could think of it as a wireless layer on top of the internet where millions of things from razor blades to euro banknotes to car tyres are constantly being tracked and accounted for. A network where, to use the rhetoric of the Auto ID Centre, it is possible for computers to identify "any object anywhere in the world instantly"."It is a simple concept with enormous implications," reads its website. "Put a tag - a microchip with an antenna - on a can of Coke or a car axle, and suddenly a computer can 'see' it. Put tags on every can of Coke and every car axle, and suddenly the world changes. No more inventory counts. No more lost or misdirected shipments. No more guessing how much material is in the supply chain - or how much product is on the store shelves." In a sense, it is a future where pretty much everything is online.Earlier this year, Tesco, Britain's biggest supermarket group, started moving the internet of things out on to the shelves of its supermarkets. Like rival Marks &amp; Spencer, the firm has been steadily introducing RFid in its warehouses over the past year or   so, but the tagging stopped with the backroom world of palettes and cases - individual items were not tagged. But sometime in the early summer, at its superstore in Newmarket Road, Cambridge, Tesco began the world's first trial of a so-called "smart shelf".Razor blades are one of the most frequently shoplifted items. Small but relatively expensive, they can be slipped into a pocket. The smart shelf was designed to house packets of Gillette Mach 3 razor blades, each augmented with a tiny RFid tag. The shelf contained a reader and - controversially - a small CCTV camera. Each time a pack of razors was removed, the tag triggered the camera and a picture was taken.Tesco began the trial without much fuss but within weeks, a determined knot of protestors appeared   outside the store. Within a week, Gillette - the manufacturers - appeared to lose its nerve and cancelled the trial. Now, Gillette and Tesco say they have no plans to repeat an RFid trial with CCTV cameras, although Tesco continues to run in-store RFid trials at its store in Sandhurst, Berkshire.Tesco is keen to stress that "products are tagged, not customers". It points out that the readers involved in the Cambridge trial had a range of a few centimetres; that the only information on the tags was an identification number (similar to an EPC) and the tags were not tracked once they left the store. "The technology allows us to monitor stock levels and see easily if the shelf needs restocking," said a spokesperson for Tesco. "&#91;It allowed&#93; us to improve product availability for customers, improve our supply chain and make life easier for staff." The company will not say if it has plans to conduct more trials.Another person concerned about RFid is the Labour MP for West Bromwich East. Tom Watson, the so-called "blogging MP", first read about RFids on a weblog a couple of months ago. Over a hot currant teacake in the House of Commons, he says: "It occurred to me that here we have a technology that is getting cheaper and cheaper and smaller and smaller and yet if you talk to most parliamentarians, they would never have heard of RFids.""More importantly, consumers don't know what this technology can do. They have no guarantee that RFid tags will be taken off when they leave the shop... or that they won't be tracked. This stuff could be put in their clothing without them know ing. Parliament needs to look closely at RFid and decide whether there is a need to legislate or whether the industry can police itself."Watson has applied for a parliamentary debate on the use of RFid. What he will advocate, and what Chris McDermott and Caspian are supporting - at the very least - is something like a code of conduct for RFid. A set of guarantees that the tags, if introduced, will be deactivated at the point of purchase.The Auto ID Centre says it is sensitive to such concerns. The Birmingham-born co-founder and executive director, Kevin Ashton, explains: "There is a very straightforward way of addressing &#91;privacy fears&#93;. We have to guarantee that there will be notice on the packaging that the product carries an RFid tag; you have to provide people with a choice to remove the tag once they have bought the product and if you do decide to leave it on, there needs to be control over what information is gathered and how it is used."Others think there is middle ground between the privacy advocates and the desires of big business. Academics such as Rob van Kranenburg, from the St Joost Academy in the Netherlands, are trying to bridge that gap. "Perhaps in a network society we will have to give up the ghost of 19th-century notions of privacy, which is a very basic concept tied to an individual," explains van Kranenburg."If you want to move in this networked environment, maybe you have to give something up. But what we need is a proper public debate on this, before the infrastructure is in place," he says.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and  telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please  say so.
Apple stirred up some controversy by claiming the Mac G5 was "the world's fastest personal computer and the first with a 64-bit processor". Well, we already know that the 64-bit claim is a lie, but we're still waiting to find out if the "world's fastest" has as much credibility as Apple's usual speed claims -- ie not very much at all. PC World.com has just published some comparisons based on running applications, and the G5 generally loses to the AMD Athlon 64. "Even Apple's 2GHz dual-CPU G5 unit had a hard time keeping up with a single-chip FX-51 PC in most tests," says PC World.com. The comparison table ishere.This certainly isn't conclusive and will be very far from the last word, but it adds to a growing body of evidence (egNasaetc).Interestingly,SPL's Soapboxnotes that "The Apple Australia website has been changed. It now reads:'The Power Mac G5 is one of the fastest personal computers with a 64-bit processor'."
Predators generally target the stragglers who are having trouble keeping up with the pack. In the computer industry, the current target is Sun Microsystems. Last week, the company warned Wall Street that it was going though a "particularly difficult" period, and would lose more money than expected. It had already revised its last financial quarter from a $12m profit to a $1.04bn loss, and said it was cutting another 1,000 jobs.Sun did well during the dotcom boom, as start-ups flush with cash bought servers for their websites. Those days are over. Sun's annual turnover has tumbled from $18.3bn in 2001 to $11.4bn in 2003.Now it is being squeezed between the growing power and sophistication of cheap Dells and   other Intel/x86 boxes at the low end, and the industry giants, IBM and Hewlett-Packard, at the high end.In the US, HP is the latest to target Sun Solaris users with a Linux Lifeline promotion that includes up to $25,000 in free services. This has a humorous edge because, earlier this year, Sun ran an HP Away promotion aimed at companies running Digital's Tru64 version of Unix. (HP got Tru64 by buying Compaq, which had already bought Digital.)Of course, Sun, a reformed Linux-basher, now has its own competitively priced x86-based Linux servers, having bought Cobalt for $2bn in 2000. The problem is that competitive Linux/Intel prices do not deliver the 46% gross margin that Sun has averaged over the past five years. Further, while   HP might be glad to get rid of its Tru64 users (though I'm sure it would not say so in public), Sun is desperate to hang on to its far more profitable Solaris users.If Sun switches Solaris customers to much cheaper Linux servers, it is shooting itself in the foot. This may be less painful than having HP pull the trigger, but ultimately the result is the same.Sun's basic problem is that while it has always been impressive in its support of open systems, it has ended up with a range that might as well be proprietary. For a start, it has to support the cost of its own processor (Sparc), and its own version of Unix (Solaris). These could have become market standards, but didn't. It also has to support side ventures that can't bring in much cash, such as Java and Sun Office. Finally, as men tioned, it has the duplicated costs that come from selling Solaris and Linux on Intel hardware. And it has to cover all these research and development, sales and marketing costs out of declining revenues.Sun's boss, Scott McNealy, who comes across like a stand-up comedian, was attacked last week by one Wall Street analyst, but you can't fault him for trying. His latest wheeze is to offer customers Sun's Java Desktop System for $100 a year per desktop. It may prove hard to charge $100 a year for a bundle that mostly comprises Linux software you can already get for nothing, but charging Java Enterprise System customers $50 a year per employee - even if they don't have computers - shows real chutzpah. Yes, this is the desktop that Sun codenamed Mad Hatter..&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and  telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please  say so.Useful linksHP Extends Linux Lifeline to Sun Customerswww.hp.com/hpinfo/newsroom/press/2003/031003a.htmlSun Java desktop Systemhttp://wwws.sun.com/software/javadesktopsystem/faq.html
Judge Dredd: Dredd Vs Death Xbox, &#163;39.99 VU Games/Rebellion &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The third decade of the 22nd century is a bleak place indeed, with unemployment and crime rife, and a legal system of judges who summarily dispense justice and punishment from beneath their armour-clad bulks. The most famous is Dredd, who has become the figurehead of the 2000AD comic-franchise since it was launched in 1977.Although he's had a couple of videogame outings, Dredd Vs. Death is the most anticipated appearance of the chisel-jawed one. There's no messing around with stealth - Dredd doesn't sneak anywhere. This is an out and out shooter.The main story mode, which comprises 11 missions, revolves around Dredd's arch enemy Judge Death and his cronies, the Dark Judges, who are stirring up trouble in the form of a nasty bout of the undead, who are chomping down on the residents of Mega-City One.Dredd's "lawgiver" gun, with its six types of ammunition, comes in handy - especially the incendiary bullets that reduce enemies to a satisfying pile of blackened bones.But it's not all about shooting people. A large percentage of your time will be spent disarming and arresting perps, which increases your law meter and adds points to your score, which in turn allows you to unlock different arcade levels. Dredd Vs Death offers lots of gory fun, with some innovative touches, a beautiful comic book-style graphics engine and plenty of nods to 2000AD fans.Rhianna PratchettESC Charity Pack: SSX Tricky, Commandos 2, WRC II ExtremePlayStation 2, &#163;29.99, ESC, &#42;&#42;&#42;Three PS2 games for &#163;30, with all proceeds to charity. What could possibly go wrong? Not a lot actually, as this Entertainment Software Charity pack would be worth the money, good causes or not. The pick of the bunch is SSX Tricky, the snowboarding game that is both relaxing and invigorating.As the title suggests, the emphasis is more on tricks, with some over-the-top stunts. But it's the crunchy feeling of snow, the simple yet expressive controls and the sheer panache that makes SSX Tricky a treat.Slowing the pace down is Commandos 2. This is the second world war strategy romp that starts off tough and gets harder. The challenges for your team of Allied heroes range from infiltration to destruction. Unfortunately, the top-down graphics and relatively complex controls mean Commandos 2 is better suited to PC monitors than the TV. Still, this is recommended for strategy aficionados.Last, and least, is rally game WRC II Extreme. This fails to match the majesty of the Colin McRae series but because it is easier to get into, offers junior rally drivers a good run on the PS2. With one great game in SSX Tricky and two solid performers, the pack is worthy of its charitable status.Greg HowsonRugby 2004PlayStation 2, PC, &#163;39.99 EA Sports &#42;&#42;For once, a sports game has arrived at a propitious time: the rugby World Cup gets under way tomorrow. Bizarrely, considering this game is published by EA Sports, the master of the pricey sports licence, it is not an officially licensed game, although Jonny Wilkinson's god-like form adorns the packaging.Rugby has always been a sport whose complexity complicates any attempt to shoe-horn it into a   videogame, and hard as Rugby 2004 tries, it fails to provide an instant, compelling gameplay experience.The control system owes much to EA Sports' John Madden NFL games. You can, for example, pick different set plays at line-outs and scrums before launching into the set-piece.But glaring flaws abound. Without the ball, it is virtually impossible to stay onside. The graphics are dreadful. Over-fiddly controls make it very difficult to win a clean ball from line-outs. There is an annoying wait between triggering a pass and it taking place. And the training ground tutorial is lacking in useful advice.On the plus side, you can pull off some surprisingly sophisticated moves such as killing the ball in rucks. And you can play through an entire World Cup. Dedicated, patient rugby fanatics will find enjoyment, but the rest will do well to ignore it.Steve Boxer
Radio to goBBC Radio 4 has a great online service where you can listen to programmes from your computer usingRealPlayer. Can you download the programmes on to your PC or Mac, then convert them to MP3 files so they can be put on to an iPod etc?Jan McIntyreJack Schofield replies:There are probably dozens of ways of doing this for nothing, many of them messy, and not all strictly legal. However, you can buy programs that make it easy. On a Mac running OS X, you can use Audio Hijack Pro ($30) to capture audio files from the RealOne Player and save them as MP3s. The cheaper Audio Hijack ($16) will save AIFF files, which you can then convert to MP3 files using iTunes or other audio software. There is a comparison of the two versions of Audio Hijack atwww.rogueamoeba.com.On Windows, you could use High Criteria's $11.95Total Recorder, which will also capture a wide range of streams and save them as MP3 files.Replay Radio, which is designed to record internet radio stations, has the main BBC stations on its menu.Real Networks' system is proprietary and the company's development agreement seems to forbid programmers from capturing Real Media streams directly (cutting out the Real player). Versions of Streambox and StreamboxRipper (2.007) that did this have been withdrawn, but have not necessarily disappeared. Seewww.why-war.comfor   an account of how to capture streams in Windows. It is possible that Real offers a solution to this problem, but I gave up looking after a death-defying battle with its website.File shiftI work abroad a lot and am looking for a way to store files so I can access them wherever I am.Tony HoustonJS:There used to be lots of free sites that provided this feature, but most disappeared after they were used to share pornography, pirate software and other large files. If your files are not very big, a simple, free solution is to open a Yahoo Briefcase or use Yahoo Groups. Yahoo Briefcases now offer 30 megabytes of free storage. They also work with Macs, but Mac users have to remember to add a Windows-style file extension, such as .doc or .dbf, to their file names when uploading files. If you need a business solution, look atXdrive.Function betterI have a Microsoft Office Keyboard with "enhanced" function keys, which can be used to carry out common tasks within Office applications. You can toggle between regular use and enhanced use by an F-Lock key, but this is set to the enhanced functions by default.Richie TurnerJS:It is annoying that you are not allowed to choose the default, but Jason Tsang has written some registry files to change it. Download them fromhttp://mvps.org/jtsang/flock.html.HijackedI want Google as my home page, but when I open Internet Explorer, Global Finder comes up. It doesn't matter how often I change it.Dave McRaeJS:Global Finder is a well-known browser hi-jacker. Seewww.pchell.com/support/globalfinder.shtmlfor removal details. For information on    other browser hi-jackers and removal tools, seewww.spywareinfo.com/articles/hijacked.Backchat&#183;Last week, I suggested that Alex Cooke forwarded his fake eBay emails to spam@ebay.com, but eBay in the UK wants people to use spoof@ebay.co.uk instead.&#183;Paul Fisher asked why word processors did not include predictive text, like mobile phones. Dave Clarke and Adrian Greeman point out that the word processor in the freeOpen Officesuite does. Go to Tools|AutoCorrect|Auto Format|Word Completion and tick Complete words, says Dave.&#183;Maurice Long asked about ways to re-use cartridges with his Epson printer. Duncan Gray warns that "Epson ink-jets seem to be prone to blockages if non-Epson cartridges are used. Although the nozzles can be cleared - ammonia seems to be the cleaner of choice - my Epson ink-jet is still not right after I had a problem." He says you can get lower prices online. Gitta Zarum says: "I have an Epson CX3200 and have found compatible cartridges from Neat Ideas and from Staples at about half the price of Epson ones. The computer comes up with a warning but if you click on Yes, it will accept it."&#183;I thought I had found a Windows XP-compatible driver for the HP Desk Jet 720C. However, Nick Salmon says the site only has drivers for Windows ME and earlier: "They simply refer you to the XP internal driver, which doesn't work properly. Subsequent emails with HP produced the recommendation to 'chuck it away'."&#183;On the subject of programs that alert you to website updates, Simon Heywood reminds me that Kaylon's Powermarks, which I recommended as a bookmark manager, "has a feature to indicate if a bookmark has changed since your last visit. I still findPowermarksfantastically useful, simple, easy and efficient."
Sheffield City council doesn't normally keep company with the Baghdad Blogger, the Greek foreign minister, Al Jazeera TV and the White House. But all are among 25 organisations and individuals nominated in a global poll of e-democracy enthusiasts for "changing the world of internet and politics".International recognition is good news not just for the council but the whole UK e-democracy programme. It's also a timely rebuke for home-grown commentators (including this one) who tend to zoom in on negative aspects of projects, assuming that people already know the bigger picture.Sheffield picked up its accolade last month at the annual Worldwide e-Democracy Forum in Paris.   The website PoliticsOnline polled 30,000 readers, asking them to name the people, organisations and companies that are changing the world of internet and politics. Sheffield was the only municipal authority and one of only a handful of government agencies to make the grade - no other UK government body got a look-in.The attention is deserved. In May's English local elections - the world's largest official pilot of e-voting methods - Sheffield was the boldest innovator. The city carried out e-voting pilots in half of its wards, giving citizens the chance to vote via the internet, SMS text, phone or public kiosk. Sheffield claims to have the largest public information kiosk network in the country, providing free access to the web and email from 38 sites. All this is part of a long-term   e-government programme which includes issuing citizens with smartcards for use in libraries and transport as well as voting.The council's deputy leader, Steve Jones, says that Sheffield aims to be a leader in electronic communications, making local democracy accessible to all. "For this to be noted at an international level shows how much we've achieved so far."That's all very well, but didn't the Electoral Commission's official evaluation of this year's e-voting pilots find them to have little measurable effect on voting turnout? Overall, that is true: this column commented as such on August 7, reporting the commission's lukewarm support for e-voting as compared with all-postal ballots as a way of boosting turnout.That was the national picture. In   Sheffield, however, the commission found good news for e-voting. In wards where e-voting was available, turnout increased by 2.5%; in those where it was not, it dropped by 2.7%. Given the uncertainties of electoral science, that's as close to a controlled trial of the technology as we're likely to get. A net increase of 5.2% in voting turnout looks worth attempting to replicate.And, as the commission pointed out, increasing turnout was not the only goal of the e-voting pilots. "Many authorities were keen to be in the vanguard of electronic voting, others wanted to increase convenience or achieve efficiency savings. All were committed to the delivery of a high-quality, accurate and free and fair election."For the last reason alone, Sheffield deserves credit at home as well as abroad.
As handset manufacturers start showing off their new phones ready for holiday shopping, they're hoping we won't think smartphones are just a snazzy Christmas present. The combination of mobile phone with a range of personal digital assistant features could be the ideal solution for working on the move. Siemens Nixdorf, Handspring, Motorola, Nokia and Samsung are all pitching handsets with Pim (personal information management) features such as a calendar and address book that synchronise with your desktop, email and web browsing, plus the options of installing your own apps. That all adds up to a device you can use as easily in business as down the pub. But will smartphones sweep aside the PDA the way some are predicting?IDC is predicting sales of 13m "converged devices" - smartphones and PDAs with built-in phones such as O2's XDA - over the next 12 months, as against 11m PDAs. Not all will be used for anything more than making calls, and many will be bought by consumers. But large companies are switching to smartphones as their standard handset, either for specific projects or as a hedge against developments.Estate agent FPD Savills chose the Orange SPV as a phone because it was easy to get contacts on to it, then moved on to using it for email. Now Savills plans to use it to access its customer relationship management system.Smartphones aren't necessarily replacing PDA purchases, because not many businesses are buying PDAs for users as part of an IT strategy. They are more likely to be faced with supporting PDAs that users have bought off their own bat.Smartphone fans claim there are many advantages to carrying a single device. It's easier to get online than with even the simplest PDA set-up. Complex connections aren't just unpopular with users, they also increase support costs. And with the right software, you can configure, manage and support smartphones remotely, installing new software or fixing a problem without having to get your hands on the phone.Afaria management software adds these kinds of features to Microsoft smartphones and there are similar tools for Symbian phones. There are management tools that help you work with PDAs, too, but you have to wait until they're docked on the desktop or connected to the company network to reach them.Smartphones are also smaller and lighter than PDAs, and you get your   entire address book on the device where you really need phone numbers. If you're giving everyone a phone, why not make it a PDA, too? The counter-argument is that smartphones are larger, heavier and use more power than a standard phone, and you don't have the option of leaving the PDA at home when you're out for business rather than pleasure.Rather than relying on the usual received wisdom about what users prefer, Symbian partner Psion Software has been handing out devices and interviewing users. Not surprisingly, IT decision-makers care more about what makes life easier for supporting users, and business decision-makers want solutions that will get used. "The users are almost unanimously in favour of having one device because having the information to hand far outweighed any disadvantages," according to marketing   director Lionel Wolovitz. Orange claims one of the real signs of success - not being able to get smartphones back at the end of a trial.Keeping users happy isn't the only reason for considering smartphones. Heavy subsidies for the handsets make them cheaper than PDAs, especially for businesses ordering in bulk. And while you have to allow for connection costs, those are predictable.According to Microsoft, laptop users might send and receive as much as 20 or 30MB of data per month, while PDA users average 8 to 10MB. With a smartphone, it's usually 4 to 6MB. This is well within the fixed monthly GPRS (general packet radio service) tariffs that most operators offer for business use.With simpler devices, even less technical users need minimal training, and people naturally see a phone as a way of getting information.   According to Intuwave's research, 80% of us keep all our contacts on our mobile phone and nowhere else.Not all smartphones are equal. The size of the screen varies from barely larger than a standard phone to nearly the size of a PDA. That makes quite a difference to how you use applications. Unless you can count on a screen the size of a P800 or Treo 600 - or a PDA-phone like the XDA - smartphones work best with simple messages.Helen Wylde at O2 thinks smartphones will take off in niche areas such as retail stock control. It's very easy to check what's on the rails and send the numbers back to head office to see whether that matches what's been sold, and this helps you spot theft or fraud more quickly.Also, putting in a pervasive wireless network to cover a wide range of locations could be very expensive.   Smartphones let you use the one already there.Some smartphones have touch-sensitive screens, but Microsoft smartphones stick to menus you drive from the keys and joypad, so you can use the device with one hand. That's handy but does restrict you to predictive text - or clipping on an external keyboard - instead of Graffiti-style handwriting recognition on a touch screen. (So far, only the Handspring Treo manages to find room for a Qwerty keyboard.)But if you're dealing with a problem or needing more information and you don't want to type in a long message on the phone, you can click a contact number in a message and make a call far more easily than if you're juggling a PDA. As always, it comes down to what you need to do.Many handsets offer a confusing mix of consumer features such as cameras with business options such as viewers and editors for documents. There are some jobs - insurance adjusters, estate agents etc - where the combination of a camera and a near-permanent connection are ideal, but many businesses don't need them. And government departments view them (unofficially, so far) as a security risk.Any mobile device has security implications, especially if you're synching sensitive information on to it. When the former vice president of mergers and acquisitions for Morgan Stanley sold his RIM Blackberry handheld on eBay, he didn't realise it still contained confidential emails and his address book of company contacts, many of them with home phone numbers.Standard smartphone tools aren't any more secure, but you can either choose to keep the information safe on the server and browse to it on the phone, or use a system such as OpenHand, which locks the phone and Sim by enforcing a secure password. It's easy to block a compromised device to stop it from accessing the network, and with some systems, you can erase the information remotely when it does connect. With Microsoft smartphones, in particular, there's the option to stop users installing uncertified software, though this also tends to mean more support calls.More features and more complicated operating systems made for teething troubles with several early smartphones, though they've been no worse than early Wap phones, and most were quickly solved. The new generation of phones could be useful in business, but it's still best to think of them as devices that keep you connected, rather than hybrid compromises.LinksOpenHandwww.openhand-mobile.comAfariawww.xcellenet.com
Location sensitiveGoogle is going geographical. There is now an experimental Google Labs page that offers "search by location". Type in what you want and where you want it, and Google not only provides the usual list of hits, it puts the 10 best on a local map. Even at this early stage, it is very impressive, though the results are unlikely to be useful. Search for bridge clubs in Seattle, for example, and the second hit is for the Bridge Motel on Bridge Way North, where any card play is incidental. Also, you can't search for lakes in Oregon - it recognises streets, cities and post codes but not states - and it is US-specific, so you can't search for ski lodges in Vancouver, BC. Indeed, error messages like "unable to parse address brooklyn" show just how far the index has to go. It will be some time before Search by Location gets a beta test on the Google front page, but if you like playing with stuff that is still in the labs, this is more fun than most.http://labs.google.com/locationSelf beardiesThe World Beard and Moustache Championships will be held in Carson City, Nevada, on November 1. As well as the 17 main sections of the competition, there will be special prizes for the youngest contestant, and the contestant who has travelled the furthest. The Germans look unbeatable, but Ted Sedman, president of the Handlebar Club, could be among those representing the UK. Nevada may be a bit far for spectators to travel, but the competition will be held in Berlin in 2005 and in London in 2007. It's worth a visit to the web page for the stunning pictures, which include current world champion Willi Chevalier of the Swabian Beard Club in Singmaringen, Germany (Category: partial beard, freestyle). You have four years to beat that.www.worldbeardchampionships.comwww.handlebarclub.org.ukSite saverThe British government has about 2,500 websites, and the National Archives has started a project to collect and preserve them. Well, not all of them. It has picked a representative sample of 50 sites, and will use its experiences with those to develop a general policy. The sites will be catalogued and stored in a format developed at Brewster Kahle's Internet Archive, so they can be accessed using the Wayback Machine. The Internet Archive holds 30bn pages.www.pro.gov.uk/webarchivewww.archive.orgDrug factsHow quickly can you become a drug addict? Ask Dr Nida - or, more accurately, Nora D Volkow, MD, director of America's National Institute on Drug Abuse. Dr Nida appears on Nida for Teens, a lively site with such sections as Have Fun &amp; Learn. The main focus is on anabolic steroids, ecstasy, marijuana and nicotine. However, if you want information on the most common drug, alcohol, you are sent in the direction of the relatively boring National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism site.www.teens.drugabuse.govwww.niaaa.nih.govLiveable spacesA big problem with architecture is that it has tended to focus on buildings while ignoring the spaces between. The non-profit Project for Public Spaces focuses on creating liveable spaces that encourage the formation of communities - especially parks, plazas and civic squares. It has been going since 1975 and is US based, but doesn't skimp on its European coverage, and pays particular attention to London's attempt to become more civilised. It has a subsite on Great Public Spaces, including a Hall of Shame that features the Tate Modern, the British Museum entrance and the new City Hall in London.www.pps.org/gpsMini projectsJeffrey Yamaguchi does projects, and one of his little projects has been to make a list of 52 little projects that you could do, say, one per week. Or perhaps you could think of a new one to add to his list. The website is even simpler: it's a plain text list. It is not pretty but is much less boring than waiting three minutes for a pointless bit of Flash to download. If you have a more serious project - a website, book, record or whatever - Yamaguchi also has a list of "25 simple things you can do to get the word out".www.stroboscope.com/projectlist.htmlwww.bookmouth.com/25simplethings.htmlNew &amp; notedOxfam redesignedwww.oxfam.org.ukSexiest gamer competitionwww.sexiestgamer.comWhat's your duck type?www.captainquack.com/quiz.phpSix of the bestFree Windows softwareAnti-viruswww.grisoft.comMalware removerhttp://spybot.safer-networking.deSpamblockerwww.mailwasher.netFirewallhttp://smb.sygate.com/productsspf_standard.htmImage viewerwww.irfanview.comNewsreaderhttp://xnews.newsguy.com
Jack of all tradesI wonder exactly where Jack Schofield is going with his article (Death of the TV set, October 2). He fails to answer one      simple question: Why do I want a PC/TV? I have a PC, a TV, a DVD player and a digibox. What extra does a PCTV offer      me?Well, it costs me a bucket load of money for starters, and I can use email - oh hang on, I've got a PC which I use      for that. If I'm watching tele, how can I email at the same time? Broadening the point, how does anyone work and watch      TV at the same time?These PCTVs require constant internet access, no doubt broadband, and how long is it going to be before that is      available to the entire population of the UK at 120 per year?       There is mention of the fact that PCs are designed for close useage, and TVs at a distance. What is not said is that      TVs are specifically designed with this in mind, much like PC monitors. One hybrid tool will either do one task well and      the other badly, or do both not very well at all.Graham SwallowNetPartnering UKLoss of focusMichael Cross was right to point out (Public Domain, September 25) the shortcomings of local government initiatives to      get services online.Prioritising services such as council tax collection over booking sports and leisure facilities might be considered more      "worthy", but if a prime objective for putting services online is to reduce costs, then surely high volume transactions      should come first.       This kind of short-sightedness is typical of the whole electronic government initiative to date, seemingly directed by a      political agenda. In their scramble to meet the government's 2005 deadline, agencies are simply not thinking things      through.So far, what's been invested in are IT systems that will get agencies to first base and achieve little more than a "tick      in the box". Little thought has been given as to whether these systems will easily support the kind of      department-to-department collaboration that could have, perhaps, saved Victoria Climbie's life.       The danger is that what we are likely to end up with is a series of incompatible information systems that will be      difficult and costly to integrate and most likely not up to the challenge.Adrian CobbBerkshireAgeing wellI'm fascinated by this assertion that upgrading has to be done every three years. Let's take Jack Schofield's example      of the cost shifting from the IT department to the end user (October 2). Er, surely if they use the computer and the      software for another (fourth) year, it doesn't make any difference at all? Why does it suddenly become more      expensive? You don't have to retrain the users or your IT staff (a tick for cost/time saving), nor do you have to      replace perfectly serviceable hardware (another tick), but hang on, what about the software? Well, for most      non-specialist applications, such as email, word-processing, DTP, web-browsing and spreadsheets, most products still      do the same job, in the same way, with the same excellent results as they did six years ago, let alone three (tick, tick,      tick).I'm not suggesting a drive to keep computing stuck in the dark ages, and agree that bad design is part of the problem.      However, I am suggesting that if you skip an edition of MS word (which was a pretty good product in its '97 edition) or      Adobe Photoshop, you're not going to miss much, except the cost. My maths ain't great, but using a four-year cycle,      over 12 years, wouldn't you save 25%?       Also, what's not taken into consideration is what happens to the stuff that's left behind. Among other things, I am the      volunteer IT manager at a small charity which is forced (by cost) to use an "archaic" 16MB Apple Mac running OS8.0.      We'd love to upgrade, as the hardware is beginning to fail, but if we'd upgraded in sympathy with the age of the      computer, there'd be three more beige boxes in a landfill somewhere.Leigh GarlandLondonEasy choiceI was surprised to read the rather negative comments about emails, which have been prompted by Phones4U banning      them internally.       I have been using emails for more than 15 years in my IT job. They unquestionably have disadvantages if used      inappropriately, but you learn by experience and eventually become adept at judging when email is appropriate and when      face-to-face discussion or a phone call is preferable. Often the choice depends on the subject matter. Email is good for      technical discussions because the writer can take time to choose his words accurately, and the reader can review the      message several times to understand it fully.Discussions that involve making judgments and trade-offs, however, are      often better face to face.       But the second major advantage of email is that, unlike a shout or a phone call, the recipient can choose his moment to      read it rather than having his concentration interrupted. This principle is well presented in Tom de Marco's book      Peopleware, where it is explained that interrupting someone can waste as much as 15 minutes of his time before he is      able to get fully back into the "flow" of what he was doing.       So email can be very good for productivity at work, too!Adrian PutleyNottingham
Windows NetBookPsion Teklogix has announced an upgraded and more ruggedly constructed version of its stylish NetBook portable computer running Microsoft Windows CE.net 4.2 rather than the Psion Epoc software it used originally. Psion Teklogix is "operating system agnostic" but already sells other CE devices, and says CE has development tools and connectivity options that Epoc lacks. The NetBook Pro now has slots for PC Card (PCMCIA), CompactFlash II and SDIO/MMC cards as well as USB Master, IrDA (infra red) and serial ports. Wi-Fi, Ethernet, Bluetooth, GSM/GPRS and CDMA/1xRTT communications will all be supported via plug-in cards.The NetBook Pro has a bright, touch-sensitive 8.5in SVGA (800 x 600) screen, which can be used to capture signatures, and a very usable keyboard. It uses a 400MHz Intel xScale (ARM-compatible) processor with 128 megabytes of memory, and 32MB of Flash for software (12MB free). Psion Teklogix is aiming the machine initially at the CRM (customer relationship management) market It will start shipping later this month for around $1,500.Bars to e-votingThe government's plans to use e-voting in an entire region for the local and European elections next year will force some councils to use the technology against their wishes. Conversely, councils that have provided e-voting but are outside the chosen areas will be barred from providing it. The government has ruled out using it in London, Northern Ireland and the region including Gibraltar, which looks likely to be the south-west of England. This area includes Swindon, which has used e-voting two years running.www.electoralcommission.gov.ukPalm businessPalm is hoping the two new models in its Tungsten range (Online, October 2) will increase its appeal in the corporate market. The personal information management (Pim) software included with the Tungsten T3 (&#163;329) and E (&#163;149)   has been upgraded, and IBM has licensed a customised Java Virtual Machine. The Websphere Micro Environment (WME) provides a runtime environment to enable Java applications to run on the Tungstens. It also allows access to IBM applications such as the DB2 Everyplace database and MQ Series Everyplace messaging. The T3 has a 320 x 480 pixel screen that can be used in portrait or landscape format. Both models have sound and video playback capabilities.www.palmone.com/ukSpam junketGovernment e-envoy Andrew Pinder and members of the All-Party Internet Group (APIG) are to meet US officials to discuss unsolicited email (spam) legislation. The delegation hopes to persuade US influencers to harmonise US legislation with EU and UK initiatives. A primary issue is the current "opt out" situation, where recipients of emails have to inform spammers to desist. The group favours an opt-in approach effectively outlawing spam. Its chairman, Derek Wyatt, said: "We must try and persuade our political colleagues in Washington that their current opt out system might just ensure that the internet becomes blocked forever."www.apig.org.uk/pressrelease220903.htmUpgrade boostHewlett-Packard claims many enterprises are resisting upgrading their PCs but could benefit by re-entering the buying cycle. To kick-start things, HP has introduced a PC Migration toolset to help calculate the benefits and ease the costs. Under its Buy Back Programme, HP is offering cash for old leading brand computers when swapped for new PCs. Additionally, it has an online calculator for estimating total cost of ownership over the lifetime of the PC and a downloadable inventory application to assess hardware requirements. Two services round off the package. One draws up the migration plan and the other offers to reduce the complexity of deploying and maintaining the inventory throughout a PC's lifecycle.www.hp.co.uk/pcmigrationOffice upgradeOpenOffice, the free open source rival to Microsoft Office, last week released version 1.1 of its suite, which includes word-processing, spreadsheet and presentational software. The first revision of the software since the original was released in May last year includes better support for file standards such as Microsoft's, Adobe Acrobat and Flash Macromedia, better accessibility options and support for XML (Extensible Markup Language), used to share data between software packages. Versions of OpenOffice v1.1 can be downloaded free for Microsoft Windows, Linux and Solaris, although it may take some time - the Windows version is 63.5Mb.www.openoffice.org
Want to know what the NHS knows about you? Soon you will be able to find out through your private web window on the NHS electronic patient record. Senior NHS officials revealed this week that access to personal records on the planned national electronic "spine" is now a top priority for the &#163;2.3bn project to modernise healthcare IT."Patient access is moving up the agenda: we're trying to bring it in as soon as possible," says Marlene Winfield, head of patient and citizen relations at the NHS Information Authority.The plan is for patients to set up a "personal health organiser" called Healthspace on the NHS website to store personal notes and information from their doctor. They will also be able to use Healthspace to check the accuracy of information held on them by the planned "national spine" of health information," Winfield said.The spine will be set up by a contractor to be picked shortly from a shortlist of two. It will contain extracts of basic health records of every individual known to the NHS, from 28 weeks gestation to death. Apart from checking its accuracy, Winfield says that patients would also be able to block certain pieces of information from being shared routinely through the NHS.However, she says that research published this week by Health Which? showed that most patients are happy with their personal information being shared within the NHS.The research was published to mark a new phase in the IT project,   an attempt to win the hearts and minds of patients and clinicians to the importance of modern IT. The NHS has been accused of ignoring both in its rush to get system contracts signed.Sir John Pattison, the Department of Health civil servant who set up the programme, admitted that: "We still have quite a way to go to give people the information they need about the programme."Pattison, Winfield and the NHS IT director general Richard Granger were speaking at a forum on clinical involvement in the project, organised by the British Journal of Healthcare Computing. The event was a sell-out.The Department of Health last week set up two advisory groups,   representing patients and clinicians, to feed into the IT project. The National Clinical Advisory Board (NCAB) will represent clinicians, while the Public Advisory Board (PAB), chaired by Winfield, represents groups of patients, carers and other concerned citizens. These include the Patients' Association, Help the Aged, Mencap and the Consumers' Association. The group will meet initially every two months.The new groups will have little impact on the first systems to be ordered, which have already been specified. In the long run, the Department of Health says they would play a part. "Although contracts for the equipment IT systems and services   are currently being negotiated, the information they will carry, and the way the system will work, are under continuous development, and the two new groups will feed into this process."This week, the IT project announced its first major contract - for a national system to allow GPs and other staff to book appointments for their patients electronically.The winning contractor, Schlumberger Sema, will deploy the system over the next few months.For Granger, the contract is especially important: the signing, on schedule, comes in the week when he celebrates his first anniversary in post as chief of NHS IT. He said that keeping to the timetable is unprece dented in a major government IT project, especially in the NHS when system procurements run for two years or more. One procurement, cancelled this year before it was signed, spent four years in contract negotiations.Three further major contracts are to be signed next month: to run the spine itself (the shortlisted bidders are BT and IBM) and to install the system in hospitals and surgeries across London and northeast England. Contracts for the three remaining "clusters" of health authorities covering England will be signed by the end of the year, provided contractors agree to similar terms, Granger says.The tough contract terms proposed by the NHS have alarmed several of the bidding companies. Granger is unapologetic. "We're looking for the best prices on the planet," he says. Granger claims that buying the system nationally has saved millions, including a discount of 55% on hardware prices.Robin Guenier, of the medical opinion polling firm Medix, said that surveys consistently show that doctors support the idea of the integrated clinical records service. "On the other hand, they also show that hardly any of them know anything about it."Pattison says that the national electronic record would play a role in the prime minister's plans for a reformed health service with care run by multiple organisations. "As you increase patient choice, then the information you hold about the patient becomes, in a sense, the defining part of the NHS as much as anything else."
Microsoft and more than 40 hardware partners last week launched what they hope will be a new category of computer: the home entertainment PC or (as one calls it) Home Theatre PC. This will appear in the high street stores such as Dixon's and John Lewis to bridge the gap between conventional PCs and TVs. Rather than being offered as an upgrade to traditional PC buyers, it is aimed at the half of the population that prefers to lie back and be entertained.PCs based on Microsoft Windows XP Media Center Edition 2004 can show and pause live television, play DVD movies, CDs and music files, show your digi tal photos, listen to the radio, and so on. The system comes with a free electronic programme guide and the facility to record TV programmes to a computer hard drive with one push of a button. And, of course, you also get a PC that can do all the things it can normally do: play games, browse the web, and run all the Windows XP software, such as Microsoft Office.There's nothing particularly new about the technology - except perhaps the ability to handle HDTV (high definition television) pictures. People have been adding TV tuner cards to PCs for years. However, MCE packages all the facilities together into one integrated system you can operate from the sofa.MCE is operated via a simple scrolling menu that has the usual twee headings such as My Videos, My Pictures, My TV and My Music. It's a doddle. You can even rip an audio CD or print photos from a memory card without picking up a mouse to use   Windows, though it won't rip and burn a DVD. For that you need extra software such as Sonic PrimeTime, which some MCE manufacturers include with the bundle.The interface is part of Microsoft's long-term push into "experience computing" (XP stands for eXPerience). The idea is that users should not have to think about applications and data, just about what they want to do, such as watch a movie. MCE is an extreme version of this idea, and the New York Times's reviewer described it as "polished... to within a hairbreadth of perfection". What happens when you want to do something that isn't part of the pre-ordained script remains to be seen.Third parties will also be able to plug into the interface, such as Music Brigade, which is offering a music   video jukebox in the UK. Microsoft says more than a hundred software developers are working on new applications and on-demand services for movies, music and games etc. Sony plans to add its own features.Based on my quick look at about a dozen systems at the launch, MCE hardware manufacturers seem to have a lot of leeway. Most systems have hyper-threading Pentium 4 chips, 512 megabytes of memory and either an 80MB or 160MB hard drive. Nvidia graphics chips are common, and Nvidia, ATI and Hauppauge TV tuners are all being used. MCE is only available on new PCs, and it's the manufacturers job to make sure all the parts are installed and working correctly.Buyers should be able to choose from a wide range of brands   and form factors. Hewlett-Packard and Toshiba are among the big names. HP is offering something that looks like a desktop PC - not pretty - and a notebook, while Toshiba has a couple of widescreen portables. Packard Bell has a white system that looks like a tribute to Apple's bathroom styling. Sony and Dell are launching systems in the US but have not announced any plans for the UK.However, a number of British manufacturers such as CFL, Digital Networks (Carrera), Elonex, Evesham, Hi-Grade, Hugh Symons, Mesh and Time are developing systems. Several look more like minimalist chrome hi-fi components: the Carrera only has a power button visible on the front. Mesh has based its MCE on its small, neat AMD Athlon-powered Cubex range. Most people should be able to find something that is at least acceptable in the living room. If not, alternatives are on the way, including MCE PCs built into TV sets.MCE makes a lot of sense if you work, rest and play mainly in one room - if you are a student, or live in a bed-sit. The problem is that if you don't use it for computing, it becomes a very expensive set top box. There is an obvious solution. The Xbox games console is cheap and also runs Windows XP: Microsoft could use that to run MCE, and just drop the whole computer angle.As far as I know, Microsoft has no plans to do that. But as a &#163;300 set-top box, the X-MCE would probably take over the world.
