When Microsoft lets the rest of us get our hands on beta software, it means the development is nearly finished and the marketing machine is gearing up. Last week, the beta release of Office 2003 thudded on to half a million desks around the world, preparing us for a summer launch.If you're used to Office on a single CD, these 15 discs come as a surprise. It is not just updated versions of familiar workhorses Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Access, a much improved Outlook and the usual related Office programs - FrontPage and Publisher. There are two brand new programs, OneNote and InfoPath, plus SharePoint Portal Server 2 and Windows Server 2003 with Windows SharePoint Services - and three CDs of marketing information.You won't get all of that whichever version of Office 2003 you buy, but it makes up what Microsoft calls the Office System. Office isn't just a handful of desktop applications with similar interfaces, and when Microsoft talks about "turning information into business impact", it isn't referring to PowerPoint presentations. Including Windows Server 2003 might seem a heavy-handed hint to upgrade, but nearly everything new and important in Office 2003 is aimed at large companies - and will need Server 2003.Office 2003 is a change of direction rather than a milestone. There are no major improvements to standard features, though some new tools help individual users. If Microsoft is right about how often we open a Word document just to read rather than edit, the new Reading layout should prove useful: it puts larger text on   smaller pages without changing text formatting. PowerPoint burns presentations straight to CD. Excel's new toolbar gathers tools for working with lists of information. Like internet faxing, these are useful tools but hardly worth upgrading for.Any Outlook user will want the new version, though, not least because it finally threads messages and replies into structured conversations in a sensible way. Dynamic rules sort messages into virtual Search Folders across all folders: a flexible way to manage unwieldy masses of information. And travellers will welcome intelligent connectivity that transfers messages sensibly over slow or fast connections and doesn't move the same information repeatedly.Outlook's collaboration features let you share calendars, contacts and tasks with other users and see them on screen side by side. Instead of   emailing a file that's immediately out of date, you can transfer it to a document workspace based on Windows SharePoint Services, then keep track of it in Word or Excel. This gives you a SharePoint website without having to set it up (or remember to check it), but it needs Server 2003.So does the controversial Information Rights Management service for controlling who can print or forward confidential documents, enforcing document protection and expiring time-sensitive information. Microsoft is keen to position this as a policy tool rather than a stringent security system. It's also a work in progress: the beta pack doesn't include Windows Rights Management Services or the add-on for viewing protected documents in Internet Explorer. Protected emails can't be read in Outlook Web Access either.The really polished feature in   Office 2003 is support for XML. In Word and Excel, you can take any XML schema and drag and drop it into a document to tag it, then save the content as clean XML that enterprise applications can work with. Any user can easily work with XML using familiar tools - and any application can work with XML information from Office documents.For documents requiring more structure, InfoPath turns a schema into an intelligent document template for filling in repetitive reports flexibly, automatically extracting information from databases. Schema rules control where you can add or skip sections, so you can't save a document that doesn't match the business logic. It's not a tool that makes sense without an XML infrastructure and it's not about creating standalone documents. An InfoPath document is an interface for viewing and creating XML that feeds into enterprise applications and web services.FrontPage 2003 is a major upgrade with new coding tools and features for customising SharePoint Portal Server sites, but it won't be in any version of Office 2003. Neither will OneNote, a new program that anyone who takes notes will want to at least try. You can type anywhere on the page, or write on a Tablet PC. Record a meeting and OneNote synchronises your notes with the audio. Shrink the window and OneNote turns into a sticky yellow note for jotting down ideas and tasks or copying content from web pages. OneNote digests it all, saves automatically and makes your notes easy to navigate, but the interface can be confusing.All five versions of Office 2003 have the basic applications Microsoft hopes to bundle with new PCs: Word, Outlook and Excel. The Standard Edition adds PowerPoint. The Small Business Edition includes Publisher and the Business Contact Manager, and the Professional Edition has all that plus XML and IRM. InfoPath only makes it into the Professional Enterprise Edition; a decision that makes business sense but undermines what's new in Office 2003.Individual users might want Office 2003 but they can certainly live without it. For most businesses, making email less of a burden and simplifying collaboration make it worth considering. But far more important is the way Office 2003 applications become clients for working with information and services.Combining information from back-end databases with Excel worksheets that calculate and analyse data; tagging key Word documents with XML schemas that makes the contents visible to other applications in a structured way; creating InfoPath forms combining structure with flexibility. These are the ways XML in Office 2003 sets out to turn information locked up in a mass of individual documents into a universal database, but making the most of that will require a substantial amount of integration and infrastructure.
Last week, Microsoft developers from all over Europe gathered at Disneyland Paris for Microsoft's European Mobility Developer Conference, the MDC.Such conferences mix sessions of code samples with market analysis and demonstrations of what's around the corner. But Microsoft also began to reveal details of the next Pocket PC and Smartphone operating systems.Ozone, the next release of the Pocket PC operating system, will be based on version 4.2 of Windows CE, but presentations included details of the next generation personal digital assistant. It's less a personal electronic diary, more a component of a business IT infrastructure.With wireless technologies, PDAs have become a platform in their own right, and Ozone is designed for this marketplace. Along with a compact version of the .NET platform (able to handle XML and web services), features include support for ADO.NET database connections, and the MSMQ reliable message queue. There's even support for common VPN technologies, remote device management, and a web browser.The biggest change is the arrival of the compact version of the .NET framework. Installed in ROM, this offers similar features to the desktop and server version. Developers can write applications using the same techniques, and the same languages, without leaving the Visual Studio development environment.The next generation of Windows CE smartphones is further in the future, but they will share many features of Ozone-based PDAs. Memory will still be limited, though.Orange's SPV was the first Microsoft smartphone to hit the streets, and it hasn't been easy for third parties to develop new applications. Orange has been using Microsoft's strictest smartphone security model, requiring all applications to have a digital certificate (signed by Orange) before they can run on the SPV.Orange used the conference to launch its developer programme, and a simple way to unlock the SPV. Developers can fill in a couple of forms on the Orange developer web site, and Orange will send an unlock message to their phone.Microsoft also showed off its Smartphone Developer Kit, boxing up all the tools a developer needs to create Smartphone applications. Members of Microsoft's mobile solution partner programme get software tools for building applications, plus a contract-free Compal smartphone and a development SIM - which runs phones in developer mode.
The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) accepted that NTL's 128kbps Internet offering was a broadband service "But, because it considered most consumers would understand broadband to mean a service of upwards of 500 kbps, the Authority concluded that the claim "broadband", without qualification, was likely to mislead."The Registerhas the story.
Photos from last week'srobot showin Japan. [Thanks to Boing Boing for the link]
Dell has stopped selling Apple's iPod because it wouldn't sign Apple's new reseller agreement and the old one ran out on March 31, reportsMacCentral.
Easyjet founder Stelios Haji-Ioannou has agreed to pay the British record industry £210,000 in damages to settle a long running feud over music illegally downloaded at his chain of internet cafes.In January a high court judge found EasyInternet Cafe guilty of copyright infringement for launching a promotion that charged customers £5 to download an album's worth of music from the web, regardless of whether it was copyrighted.The case was brought by the British Phonographic Industry on behalf of a number of major labels.Record labels have been waging an all out war on the illegal copying of music over the web as music sales have plummeted worldwide."I am glad Stelios has seen sense and agreed to settle this case," said Peter Jamieson, the chairman of the BPI, which counts Sony Music, EMI and Universal Music among its members.At the time the outspoken Mr Haji-Ioannu, who during the original case protested outside the court with a group of employees wearing orange boiler suits, said he would contest the decision based on the same law that allows consumers to record TV shows to watch later on video.In the settlement EasyInternet will pay £80,000 in damages plus the BPI's legal fees, bringing the total to £210,000.EasyInternet suspended the disputed service in September 2001, citing commercial reasons.In court the company said it should not be held liable for customers downloading copyright-protected material, a defence rejected by Justice Peter Smith.Earlier today the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, the worldwide music trade organisation, said global music sales fell a further 7.2% to £20bn last year.Online piracy and the widespread use of CD burning technology, which allows computer users to record music straight to CD from their hard drive, were blamed as a major contributory factorThe IFPI chairman, Jay Berman, said he expected CD sales to fall a further 5% in 2003.
Just about every publication this side ofThe Sungets one to four newbies to try moving to Linux -- it has been a standard article for most of the past decade. (Online has done it more than once.) The results are usually a disaster, and in earlier days, sometimes they couldn't even install it, let alone use it. Cue precitable outcry from the Linux bigots. Two things are different about this version. First, it's a monster -- 8,000 words. Second, it is inLinux World.
"InterVideo Inc. announced that it has been licensed by Microsoft to supply Windows Media Technology to makers of Linux-based consumer devices," reportsLinuxdevices.com, so that probably means DVD players etc....
"The Samba Team released a patch on Monday for the second major security flaw found in the past few weeks in the open-source group's widely used program for sharing Windows files between Unix and Linux systems. The security problem could easily let an attacker compromise any Samba server connected to the Internet. The vulnerability is unrelated to the previous flaw, for which Samba released a patch on March 17," reports CNet. The hole is already being used by hackers.Alaterstory says Digital Defence "has apologized for prematurely disclosing the code needed to take advantage of a serious vulnerability in Samba."
Users running the SETI@home software could have their PCs taken over by hackers, due to a security flaw -- usual buffer-overflow stuff.CNEThas the story.
Nintendo, the Japanese video games group, yesterday sharply lowered its full-year profit forecast as intense competition in the games market tore into sales of its leading GameCube console.Sales of the GameCube fell 44% short of Nintendo's target of 10m units for the year to March 2003. Nintendo harboured strong ambitions for GameCube, which it hoped would break the hegemony of Sony's PlayStation 2 and Microsoft's Xbox.Nintendo said it now expects to record profits of &#165;66bn (&#163;355m), down from previous forecasts of &#165;80bn. Revenue targets have also been cut from &#165;600bn to &#165;500bn.Analysts had expected a shortfall due to the strength of Sony and marketing might of Microsoft, which has staked a huge bet on its Xbox games console. But few had predicted the size of the shortfall.Nikko Salomon Smith Barney had been expecting sales 
 of 8.5m units. Analyst Soichiro Fukuda blamed competition, GameCube's image and game line-ups, which are not appealing to consumers over 18 years old, the growing sector in America and Europe.Console sales, driven by the still relatively new generation of systems, are expected to grow by 20% this year. PlayStation 2 is comfortably in the lead and last year sold 18.3m units, according to UBS Warburg - it is expected to have 50m consoles installed by the end of this year.Microsoft has sold around 9m Xbox consoles - at the low end of expectations - and the division is still losing money. But the software group has insisted that it is in the games market for the long haul.Some software firms are cutting titles for GameCube, and the console faces the prospect of entering a damaging spiral of falling sales.Dixons has cut its GameCube price to&#163;99, and reports have suggested the chain may pull the console off its shelves.
On Tuesday, "Sturgis police arrested seven Sturgis men for placing more than 20 threatening letters on various businesses, schools, banks and at the post office. At least 12 signs were posted Monday morning. Another 20 were put up Tuesday evening, according to Sturgis police. The letters all read "All your base are belong to us and you have no chance to survive, make your time," according to theSturgis Journal. Yes, that was April 1. No, the police did not get the joke. Moral: PhotoshoppingAll Your Basepictures is safer.... [Thanks toBoing Boingfor the link.]
Andrew Orlowski has a whinge inThe Registerthat "Google has changed the semantic meaning of the word "news", to include press releases".
Last year, I got quite excited about an idea of Bayesian probabalistic spam filtering, which grew out of a series of developments prompted by Paul Graham'sA Plan for Spam. That's dated August 2002, and it was certainly a new idea to me. However, it doesn't seem to have been a new idea to Microsoft. It seems Eric Horvitz and others from Microsoft Research wrote a paper onA Bayesian approach to filtering junk emailfor AAAI Workshop on Learning for Text Categorization in July 1998. Not surprisingly, a patent application went in just before that, onJune 23, 1998, for a "Technique which utilizes a probabilistic classifier to detect "junk" e-mail by automatically updating a training and re-training the classifier based on the updated training set". Curiously enough, the Microsoft development was reported inFortunemagazine, but either the reporter did not use the key words, Bayes or Bayesian, or a protective subeditor removed them, as they do. Perhaps using "Bayesian" would have made the piece far too hard for Fortune readers to understand, but it effectively hid the piece from anyone trying to find information on the topic.
Aberdeen Group warns that Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) could lead to quarantines and factory closures in areas of China and Taiwan where the bulk of the world's cheap computer and networking technology is manufactured. Shortages would lead to higher prices, and could produce a "nuclear winter" in the electronics industry, reckons Wi-Fi Web site802.11 Planet. If that sounds alarmist, Morgan Stanley's chief economist is predicting aworld recession....
Scott Leviant had a problem with Intuit's product activation system. Being a lawyer with Stanbury &amp; Fishelman, he has filed a class-action lawsuit. "The suit alleges that Intuit engaged in unfair and deceptive business practices by failing to fully disclose the mechanisms and consequences of its product-activation technology before consumers pay for the software," reportsPCWorld.com.
Nintendo's shiny GameBoy Advance SP (or GBA SP) finally made its high-street debut last week, with a 10m euro (£6.8m) marketing campaign.The sleek SP, which is no bigger than the average MP3 player is, in contrast to its colourful, chunky predecessor, being targeted at an older gaming audience. Adverts showing the handheld illuminating the toned chest of a male model, while his silk sheet-clad girlfriend sleeps next to him, bearing the tagline "The second best thing to do in the dark", have been picked up by all the leading men's magazines.However, it's a wonder that his rejected partner can sleep so soundly: although the front-lit screen is one of the major selling points of the SP, it doesn't come with a built-in headphone socket and Nintendo have yet to announce a release date for the adapter.This has been one of the most criticised non-features, alongside the dinky buttons that have a tendency to cause all but the smallest of hands mild digit cramp. However the £90 price tag, gaming pedigree, slick presentation and the fact that it includes a £30 voucher off a GameCube should ensure the GBA SP retains the handheld gaming crown over Nokia's as yet unreleased N-Gage, as well as boosting flagging GameCube sales.Meanwhile Sega have announced plans to revive their European publishing arm and reclaim their old franchises such as the Sonic and Virtua Fighter series, from the likes of Infogrames and Sony. It's good news all round for Sega fans, especially as they're bringing Phantasy Star Online, the Dreamcast epic responsible for more late nights and hefty phone bills than any other game, on to the Xbox in May.However, the outlook isn't so rosy for those awaiting the GameCube's entry into the online console war as Nintendo have announced they are not going to be showing any online games at this year's Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3). The company claims it does not consider online gaming to be important enough to warrant attention yet.In an interview with C&amp;VG, Shelly Friend, PR Manager for Nintendo Europe, explained that "Nintendo is about making things mass market and we do not see this yet as mass market. If online can bring that element of unique surprising gameplay, then it will form a part of Nintendo's plans, but until that is ready then we won't."Considering the flourishing success of Xbox Live, and Sony's plans to bring the PS2 online later this year, is Nintendo just hoping that they can keep afloat until its recently announced next piece of home hardware (destined for a 2005 release) aids them in the console race? Or perhaps they know something we don't?  	  Bill Roper, the man behind such legendary games series as StarCraft, WarCraft and Diablo, was in London this month promoting Blizzard Entertainment's first console-only title StarCraft: Ghost.In the game you play Nova, a female Ghost operative blessed not only with substantially more clothing than the average gaming heroine, but also with supreme physical and mental abilities, that allow her to become a deadly assassin with the ability to cloak, Predator-style, to avoid enemies.Ghost takes place in the famous StarCraft universe that was born five years ago and has subsequently grown up to become one of the most popular strategy games of all time, with a longevity that has meant it's still played to death at world-wide gaming tournaments. If Ghost can hook only a fraction of the legions of StarCraft fanciers out there, then Nova looks as if it will ushering in a new era of kick-ass chicks.CompetitionTo celebrate the launch of the GBA SP, we have three copies of Pokemon: Sapphire Version up for grabs for the first three readers who can email with their name, address and the correct answer to this piece of Pokemon trivia:Which Pokemon likes to sing people to sleep?Email your answers to Online.Competitions@guardian.co.uk with the subject line Pokemon Sapphire. The Pokemon are waiting for you.
In April last year, company car drivers had to get to grips with a new tax regime, with bills weighted according to their car's carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Already there is evidence that there have been changes in attitudes and buying patterns.From tomorrow, the tax regime gets even tougher. The principles behind it remain the same, but the goalposts are moving. Unless you drive a car with very low CO2 emissions, you will pay more company car tax this year.How it works:You pay tax based on your company car's official list price (known as the P11D) and its CO2 emissions. There are also surcharges and discounts based on fuel type. CO2 emissions are measured in grams per kilometre (g/km), and the government has graded CO2 emissions into 21 company car tax bands.By how much will my tax bill rise?If your company car emits less than 160g/km of CO2 your tax bill won't change. However, most emit more than that, so the majority of tax bills will rise. But by how much? Take a look at the table. Let's assume you drive a petrol-powered company car that emits 17g/km of  CO2. In the 2002/3 tax year, that car was in the 17% tax band. However, from tomorrow - the start of the 2003/4 tax year - it moves up to the 19% tax band.Now, let's say the official list price of your car is &#163;15,000. This means that, from April 6, your annual company car tax bill rises by &#163;66 (if you pay 22% income tax) or &#163;120 (if you pay 40% tax). Here's how we arrived at the answer.For 2002/3:In 2002/3, your company car tax was calculated on:17% of &#163;15,000 = &#163;2,550.As a 22% taxpayer, your annual company car tax bill was therefore:22% of &#163;2,550 = &#163;561As a 40% taxpayer, your annual company car tax bill was: 40% of &#163;2,550 = &#163;1,020For 2003/4:In 2003/4 your tax will be calculated on:19% of &#163;15,000 = &#163;2,850As a 22% taxpayer, your 2003/4 company car tax bill = &#163;627As a 40% taxpayer your 2003/4 company car tax bill = &#163;1,140&#183;The above information was taken from The Rough Guide to Company Cars, distributed free with the May issue of BBC Top Gear magazine on sale now, priced &#163;3.60.
If you are reading this, you are probably an "early adopter" or an "early majority pragmatist", definitely not a laggard. While not as common as some types of classification, these categories are widely used in the technology businesses. Indeed, most companies now make at least some use of TAM, the Technology Adoption Model, pioneered by Professor Everett Rogers in Diffusion of Innovations, an important book first published in 1962.The point about TAM is that not everybody adopts a technology at once. When Philips and Sony launched CD audio discs in 1982, for example, hardly anybody bought them. Most people probably didn't even know they existed. However, what used to be high-priced, high-technology players are now routinely fitted to hi-fi's and portable audio systems. Many people carry small, cheap versions around in the same way that an earlier generation carried around a Walkman cassette player. They also appear in computers, games consoles, clock-radios and cars.TAM provides a model that describes how a new technology can be adopted and diffused through society over a period of time. The process starts with innovators and enthusiasts, who like to play with things. This sort of person is adventurous enough to buy a CD player to find out how it works. Sales are small.The next group to take up an innovation are the early adopters, who buy things for their benefits - or at least, their own perception of them. They were willing to pay high prices for CD players even when there weren't many discs to play. The fact that they had already bought Elcassettes, 8-track tapes, laser-disc video players, quadraphonic systems and other market failures did not put them off. Sales are still small, but could be about to take off.Success comes when the "early majority" buyers arrive. These are knowledgeable and practical people who don't really want to waste their money on products with little or no future - which, as it happens, is most of them. They watch what the early adopters are buying, and take their pick of the plums while avoiding the turkeys. If you can sell to this group then you have achieved success, because they make up about a third of the market. "Early majority" buyers are decision makers. They make technologies into market standards.The next third of the market is made up of  "late majority" buyers. They don't worry too much about the technicalities, but they want something cheap, safe and standard. They are sceptics who don't buy promises. They want proven products from large companies that offer lots of support. When an innovation gets through to the "late majority" buyer, it has reached the mass market.Finally there are the laggards, who are often traditionalists (if not simply poor). Who needs a CD player? In the old days, people sat around the piano and made their own music. Laggards may buy technology products without realising it. For example, if a wristwatch has hands, they may not notice if it has an oscillating crystal inside rather than clockwork. At the extreme are the Amish, who reject modern technology altogether.One of the interesting implications of this approach is that innovation is not the ultimate "success factor," and it probably doesn't matter much if you are the "first mover," or the tenth or the hundredth. What matters is whether or not you are the first to reach the "early majority" buyer. Being "first mover" certainly gets you a first throw at the dartboard, but the average innovator couldn't hit the side of a barn.Many products are re-invented several times before someone comes up with something that hits the target. For example, Go Corporation, founded in 1987, was the first company to try to commercialise pen-operated handheld computers, but failed to make any impact on the market. Apple thought its size, image and tremendous marketing skills would lead to success but its product, the Newton Messagepad, was ridiculed. Many other companies tried their hands at the format, including Active Book Corp, Amstrad, Casio, Kyocera and Sharp. The successful Palm Pilot, however, was not introduced until 1996.Being "innovative" and being "first mover" didn't help Go at all. Its real problem was that it was too far ahead of the technology price/performance curve. If it had started a decade later, it might have taken over the market.In the personal computer business, the "first mover" was, arguably, MITS with the Altair, launched in 1975. It certainly appealed to geeks and technofreaks. Commodore, Apple and Tandy followed with machines aimed at consumers, in 1977, and IBM set the standard with the IBM PC launched in 1981. Who won the market? Michael Dell.Dell was just a kid when the innovators and early adopters were arguing about first mover advantages. He founded Dell Computer Corp in 1984, when he was a 19 year old student, and it is now well on the way to becoming a $60bn corporation.The model also provides some insight into the perennial technology problem of ease of use. The problem is that the only people who care about ease of use are the late majority buyers, and by the time they arrive, it's all over.The innovators and early adopters don't care: they expect things to be hard, and solving problems is half the fun.  For serious business buyers, problems are the price you pay for trying to leapfrog the competition. The early majority care, but not a lot. They are practical people and first of all they want features and performance. Capability is essential, whereas ease of use is just a bonus. As long as the benefits are bigger than the aggravations, they are willing to learn.The "late majority" buyers are the ones who want everything on a plate, but even so, they take a balanced view. They are not obsessive about ease of use, or any other single factor except, perhaps, market standards. Also, for these buyers, "ease of use" is much broader concept than it is for the average one-dimensional geek. It includes factors far beyond the narrow operational ones, such as the easy availability of products on the high street. In other words, the "late majority" buys "the whole product," which is a much more extensive concept than "the product".As mentioned in this column before, "the whole product" does not consist of a simple device, such as a CD player, or a computer. It includes both the product and the vast array of supporting products and services that make it useful. In the computer market, it includes hardware features such as flexibility and expandability, the availability of software, peripherals, training and maintenance, and adherence to standards, among other things.Importantly, "the whole product" includes "the future product", or people's reasonable expectations thereof. For example, in the 1980s, someone could have argued that LPs were a better whole product than CDs because there was more music available on vinyl, and it was cheaper. However, buyers could still decide that CD offered a better whole product if they expected vinyl records to become obsolete and/or more expensive, while CDs would become cheaper and take over the market.In Silicon Valley, the concept of "the whole product" drives many corporate marketing strategies -- at least in theory. That is thanks mainly to the popularity of two ground-breaking books, Crossing the Chasm and Inside the Tornado, by technology consultant Geoffrey Moore.The problem for technology companies is that they launch hundreds of products that are only bought by small numbers of people: the innovators and early adopters. If you just looked at the Technology Adoption Model, you might assume there was a natural evolution from these early adopters to the mass market, but as a matter of common observation, very few products make it. Moore posited that there was, in fact, some sort of chasm between the two. So the real question is: how do you cross the chasm?Moore was also familiar with the whole product concept, which provides a model to describe how consumers behave. They don't buy technologies in a vacuum, they buy products that satisfy their needs, whether that is to listen to Bach or play a Super Mario game. It is therefore possible for a product to remain physically the same while "the whole product" changes dramatically.At launch, for example, a CD player could cost $1,000 and only have 50 titles available. A couple of years later, the same player could cost $250 and have 5,000 titles available, with many more on the way. Only early adopters would buy the launch product, but early majority buyers could well buy the "later" (albeit identical) CD player because it is a much better "whole product".So Moore's answer to how you get your product across the chasm is that you turn it into a "whole product" that meets the needs of a defined group of buyers. For example, it would be impossible to launch a new computer platform with 100,000 applications to meet every need, but you could get a foothold with one or two good desktop publishing programs and a laser printer. It was well before Moore's day, and Apple didn't intend to do this, of course, but desktop publishing saved the Mac after it flopped on its initial launch.As all these market factors have become much more widely known over the past two decades, suppliers have tried to compress the TAM life-cycle by getting to "the whole product" as quickly as possible. It is no longer enough to launch a product and see if it sinks or swims. Today, for example, it's not unusual to see a raft of magazines appear to support a new games console before it has even been launched, and software houses start talking about the games they are developing long before that.It is understandable, but sad to say, it leads to markets that are built mainly on hype, and prone to collapse when the arrival or real products evokes not excitement but disillusionment. It's a fair bet that your first encounter with a Wap or 3G phone was not wild excitement but: "Oh, is that it?"
Internet service providers have reacted angrily to BT's latest broadband price cuts, claiming they will be unable to pass on savings to consumers and calling on regulators to step in.An AOL spokesman said while BT has dropped the monthly wholesale price it has doubled the price it charges to ISPs to activate a new account from £25 to £50."It's rather disingenuous to tell us to pass on the savings to the consumer when there's no new money there," he added.The telecoms giant yesterday announced it planned to slash the price it charges other service providers to lease its broadband lines for the second time in a year to around £13 a month.But Freeserve and AOL, the two largest service providers in the UK, have both said  they will be unable to pass the savings on. "What BT is giving with one hand, it is taking away with the other," the spokesman said.Both AOL and Freeserve charge £27.99 a month for the high-speed service that allows users to surf the web at 10 times the speed of a normal connection. They argue that they make such small margins on their broadband services that the price cuts will make no difference.Insiders at both companies believe the move is designed to allow BT some "regulatory slack" to allow it to cut the price of its own BT Broadband service, the "no-frills" high-speed service launched last year.Tiscali, the UK's fourth largest ISP, has also hit out at the announcement, arguing that the move actually helps consolidate BT's "monopolistic" position.BT operates two networks; IPStream, which is wholly controlled by BT, and another, DataStream, that it was forced to open up by telecom regulator Oftel, and which uses the lines owned by a combination of other companies.Tiscali claims that because the price cuts apply only to BT's own network, they are effectively protecting its dominance. It plans to make a formal complaint to Oftel."If similar price cuts were applied to DataStream it would ensure even cheaper prices and more choice for the consumer," said the Tiscali chief executive, Sergio Cellini."This is clear discrimination against DataStream, which is not in the consumer's interest, and is an effort to squeeze competitors' margins. This is Broadband BT not Broadband Britain," he added.The move has not gone down well in the City either, with analysts questioning the wisdom of making another price cut announcement on top of the reduction in residential call rates announced on Wednesday.
FT.comreports thatUpmystreet.comhas gone into administration. The site, which provides local information to users and has also recently added an interesting discussion facility, continues to function, although abuyer is being sought.
Intel has been affected by the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (sars): it has cancelled its developer forums in Beijing and Taipei, Taiwan, according toCNet.
Microsoft has outlined its plans for six different Office 2003 bundles, aseWeekexplains.I've only just got around to opening the Beta 2 Kit, which is not a trivial installation since it comes on 15 CDs....
"OK, folks, start hacking." Not exactly the average invitation you'd expect from a nicely dressed consultant from Ernst &amp; Young, but then, this is not your average consultancy session. Welcome to Extreme Hacking, a class in the basics of cracking websites and how to act as maliciously as possible once you're in.Around a long table in a large meeting room in Dublin, 15 software developers, program testers, website designers and system administrators lean in to look more closely at the innocuous credit union website on their laptop screens. Their job: to find the vulnerabilities, exploit them, see how much information they can prise out of the site and how much control they can gain over it.Why is the well-known consultancy firm gleefully teaching its students to be so naughty? "Because people don't really understand how hackers actually hack sites," says Daniel Quealy, director of security and technology solutions for Ernst &amp; Young Ireland. "If they do it themselves, it helps them to write better programs, to know what to test for, and to protect their sites."The one-day Extreme Hacking course is definitely not for the faint of geek heart. The class runs at an extreme pace, and students have to take in everything from an introduction to common hacking tools, to the technicalities of how attacks work and how to protect against them.But even on this tight schedule, class members are clearly shocked by how much sensitive information they can squeeze out of a website with only a day's instruction. By late afternoon, we will find ourselves using - albeit clumsily, and with lots of hints from our teachers, Mike Harris and Deirdre Hurley - sophisticated techniques such as "SQL insertion" and "cross-site scripting". In a final exam on our new skills, most of us will be able to trick Ernst &amp; Young's mock-up credit union site into giving us customer account names and passwords, account balances, and administrator privileges over the whole site.However, such hacker glories seem far away at mid-morning, when our heads are swirling with the capabilities of nasty little cracking tools with such names as Brutus, Achilles, N-Stealth and D-sniff. The first lesson is in how to use these programs to determine details about a target system (so you know what tools to use against it), and how to "sniff" for unprotected computer "ports" (the vulnerable internet gateways in and out of computer systems).The key to hacking, explains Harris, is exploiting weaknesses in the way websites authenticate information flowing in and out of a site. The software sitting on the large computer servers that handle web pages is designed to respond to specific requests, and verify that those requests are legitimate. But without proper safeguarding, that process allows numerous ways of tricking sites into giving up extra information that enables hackers to sneak in.The hackers' goal is to get into the databases that hold information such as customer data and account passwords. Hackers also use machines they control for conducting attacks on other computer systems, and to grab storage space and bandwidth to run rogue sites, offering illegal copies of films, for example, or pornography.Hackers begin by trying to gather as much information as possible. This can be as simple as viewing the source code for a site, since some forgetful developers stick sensitive data into "hidden" tags that aren't all that hidden. Those tags might reveal passwords, or give a hacker the ability to change pricing on an e-commerce website. "This was a common error three to four years ago," says Hurley. "A lot of e-commerce sites weren't realising how much information they were giving away in the 'view source' button on the browser."Programs such as Achilles allow you to intercept all the requests made by your computer to a website and all the data sent back from the site to your PC. That can reveal useful information such as passwords or usernames contained in improperly protected "cookies", the tiny files that websites place on a site visitor's PC to track an online session.A prime goal, says Harris, is to see if the web server can also be tricked into returning extremely informative error messages. We test the technique against a web page that is the front for a database full of information. To our amazement, the unprotected database lets us slowly reveal the name of database tables and subheadings and, ultimately, the credit card contents of the table. Initially, we need to use Achilles. But once we know the weakness is there, we simply type extra detail into the site's URL in the browser - a technique called "string concatenation" - and it coughs up further revealing data.Scripts - little programs that allow one website to send information to a related site - can also be tricked into returning error messages that reveal the vulnerabilities of a site. We try using a "cross-site scripting" vulnerability that lets us go through an unprotected hole in the server, then stick our own script into the website."Very dangerous, as you can run any malicious script you want," notes Harris. Hackers can use this technique to get the username and password of anyone who logs on to the site, or to attack other websites, he says. In most cases, all these exploits bypass firewalls and other protections so that the victim never even knows a site has been hacked.How to protect against such evils? Many developers never take their server software off weak default settings or "harden" the system with greater protections, he says. They also let unused features remain operational in the program, which increases the number of ways a hacker can get in. Finally, says Harris: "You have to allow users to do only what you want, and deny everything else. That's the only way to be safe."
InternetEmail bullyingEmail bullying is on the increase, according to research out this week fromReed.co.uk. One in six workers has been bullied electronically - with senior managers facing it more than those further down the corporate chain. The definition of a bullying email is broad: it can range from cowardly managers sending unfair comments by email because they want to avoid confrontation, to more personal insults. "It's just too easy to send an email while tempers are running high," says Dan Ferrandino, director of Reed.co.uk. It's also hard to spot when you're a bully yourself, it seems: only 4% of workers admit to bullying their colleagues via email.BroadbandGo-faster stripesGood news for British consumers who find the 512Kbps speed of their broadband internet connection just isn't quick enough. Cable companyTelewestis trialling a service that will offer downloads speeds of 2Mbps - four times faster than BT's standard ADSL broadband connections.BTis also experimenting with a 1Mbps service it hopes to launch later in the year. Telewest is saying nothing about pricing yet, but a full roll-out of the service is expected later in the year.Plugging inWinchester could become the first town in England to trial broadband internet services delivered over electricity power lines.Scottish Hydro-Electric(SHE) has already announced a similar trial in Stonehaven and is now keen to experiment in a town where there is already access to rival broadband services. Users pay &#163;25 a month to surf at speeds of up to 2Mbps.NTLis increasing the monthly cost of its "midband" unlimited use cable internet service by 20%, from &#163;14.99 to &#163;17.99, from May 1. The speed of the service will rise by 17%, from 128 kilobits per second to 150Kbps.Mobile PhonesWatch phoneDick Tracy-style watch phones are heading for the UK now that Samsung has confirmed an autumn launch for its connected timepiece. The as yet unnamed device is slightly bigger than an average watch as it accommodates a LCD screen large enough for viewing Wap pages. It also features voice dialling, Bluetooth and a speaker phone option. Japanese phone network NTT DoComo also believes wrist mobiles could be the next big thing. Its first watch phone - the Wristomo - went on sale last week for around &#163;300.3G: price is too highBritons are more concerned about the cost of using their mobiles than the telecom companies realise, according to new research from theWork Foundation. Despite widespread mobile phone ownership, the MobileUK report says mobile charges remain a concern - especially for the majority of users who pre-pay for   their talk time. The report found mobile phone users already employ all kinds of tactics to cut costs. That means pricing could be a barrier for 3G phones, which cost more than &#163;600 a year to run at the moment. Max Nathan, co-author of the research, warns: "Until 3G becomes better value, most consumers will find it an expensive worry too far."War latestArabic news channelAl-Jazeerais now offering a breaking news service via text message, in both Arabic and English. This is the first time the news service, which makes headlines for its stories from inside Iraq, has offered a direct news service in English. You can sign up for the service via Al-Jazeera's website for $5.99 (around &#163;3.99) a month.HardwareLovely laptop's got a weight problemIt was announced back in January, but it took until last week forApple's 17-inch PowerBooks to start arriving in the UK in volume.Has it been worth the wait? Well, the sleek-skinned notebook is striking to look at: shiny outside, bright screen inside. But, remarkably, Apple advertises the machine as "ultralight" - really, it's not. Weighing 6.8 pounds, this feels more like a desktop computer replacement to lug about occasionally, rather than something to carry every day.There are other gripes: a cramped keyboard, with a return key so small it's easy to miss, is disappointing when there's so much space free around the keyboard. And the backlit keyboard - worked by hidden light sensors - might excite the gadget fiends, but wasn't particularly effective on the machine I tried.On the upside, the screen is fantastic, it feels much faster than my desktop iMac, and you get plenty of envious stares on the train home - even as you grimace with a sore back from hauling it around.From &#163;2,598.A wired DVD playerIf you are itching to watch movies you have downloaded from the internet on your TV screen, a new DVD player could provide an easy solution. Scandinavian companyKiss Technologyis to launch the &#163;300 DP-500, which includes an Ethernet connection and support for DivX - the leading compressed video format for the PC. To view movies stored on a hard disk on the TV screen, or listen to internet radio stations or MP3 files, owners run a connection between the player and the PC. Future versions of the player will include a hard disk and may be able to join a wireless network.Smart MP3 playerSony Ericssonhas come up with a neat twist on the Bluetooth headset - it has teamed one up with an MP3 player. The HBM-30 MP3 player can store up to an hour's worth of tunes on its accompanying 64MB Memory Stick Duo storage card. Yet it automatically mutes when a call comes in, with the person's ID displayed on the gadget's screen. If they choose to respond to the call, the Bluetooth wireless connection means user can talk without having to remove their phone from their pocket or bag. The player goes on sale in May, but there are no details of prices yet.PrivacyDNA warningThe Home Office's plans to extend the collection of DNA samples could mean that up to 44% of men and up to 13% of women could eventually end up on the national database, a privacy expert has warned. The government's plans, announced last week, allow retention of DNA samples and fingerprints from everyone arrested. Previously, this only applied to those charged with an offence, and the national database currently holds 1.8 million DNA samples. Dr Chris Pounder, a senior criminal consultant in privacy from the law firmMasons, has warned that the move could "change the nature of society".&#183;What's New is edited by Neil McIntosh, with contributions from Ashley Norris and SA Mathieson.
It being Thursday, Online is out - you can read the full versionhere, although you won't get the full impact of our new design unless you buy the newspaper. We're now expanded, round the back of the new Life science section. Stories this week include the brothers from South London who are the top ranking players in CastleQuest - but have toplay it 24/7to maintain their rankings - and the news that a major government department has decided toopt for Linux. Plus, morenewsand a newcolumnfrom Jack Schofield.
It is commonly held that Championship Manager ruins relationships. The most enduringly successful game in PC history, they say, encourages socially underdeveloped men to spend tens of hours glued to their monitor ignoring increasingly heated pleas from wives, girlfriends, parents and small animals. This is all nonsense.As any true devotee will tell you, Championship Manager is a force only for good. Copies of the latest, grandest installment of the game, Championship Manager 4, began flying off the shelves last Friday morning, and already thousands will be ruminating over such important issues as the importance of natural ability against the desire for hard work, the needs of the individual against that of the collective, and how best to manage money. All while pretending to be Arsene Wenger; what could possibly be wrong with that?A testament to the game's longevity, the first version of CM (as it's known) was released in 1992. Designed by two Shropshire brothers, Oliver and Paul Collyer, it allowed you to act as manager of a real-life English football club from the comfort of your own Amiga. That it had no actual football playing - only hundreds of pages of data to analyse - and poorer graphics than Manic Miner wasn't really a problem.Over the past decade the game has been refined, enhanced and - it must be said - complicated. Despite each new installment, the basics of the game have remained the same: use your knowledge of football and an attention to detail to build a squad, improve it through training, and win enough matches to become the best manager in the world.Of the main components, CM4's biggest development is in the way matches are played. For the first time you can watch the game not merely through brief flashes of text (eg "Wiltord must score... He's missed it!"), but also follow a 2D engine of animated little circles that play out manoeuvres as if on a training board, allowing you to see how your team actually plays.This adds a whole element of fun, as watching your best players perform clever moves makes hours of checking and unchecking of tactical boxes seem worthwhile. It also, however, adds a new level of detail demanding that, if you want to get your team to play well, you have to keep an eye on everything each player does.Playing CM4 on a laptop with a Pentium III processor meant watching the 2D game was a pretty slow business. Loading the tactics pages is also clunky, but that's the price you pay for the ever-increasing size of the game. Just as you can monitor individual movements within a match, interaction with the players is more intricate elsewhere, too. Each contract has a dozen pull-down menus, each transfer an extra level of negotiation with avaricious agents. You can also edit the training regime on a daily rather than weekly basis, and even the number of players has doubled, to 200,000.Herein lies the crux of the game: why it creates so many obsessives, while those who don't play it deride it. As the level of detail inexorably rises, ever more time is spent poring over what basically amount to spreadsheets - surely the closest a leisure pursuit has ever got to accounting. Yet with each new edition, the game gets closer to being an accurate simulation of reality, and you in turn get closer to being M Wenger.The best feature of CM has always been its verisimilitude. With the Collyer brothers both Everton fans, it may not have been surprising that some of the best players in early versions were to be found on Merseyside. Over the years, however, the brothers have assembled hundreds of scouts worldwide to help assess real-life players, collate the game's data and accrue a depth of football knowledge that beats that of most media pundits hands down.It's always fun to see real-life clubs splashing big money on a player you bought in CM two years ago for peanuts. From Kieron Dyer to Jermain Defoe, Javier Saviola to David Trezeguet, you saw them first on your PC. Now the race is already on to delve into the newly stocked database and find the latest hidden stars.That there aren't many real-life football stars who play CM perhaps isn't too surprising. On theofficial sitethere are interviews to be found with minor pros and the occasional Premiership squad player, but the biggest name to have been involved is Ray Houghton, the former Liverpool and Ireland star. Judging by Houghton's interviews it doesn't seem that he spends too much time tinkering with his training schedule. Which, in fact, is fine. Let the players stick to playing, and leave management to the pros.
The Hong Kong government has sent a blanket text message to 6m mobile phones in a bid to scotch a spoof internet story spreading fears about Asia's mystery bug.The hoax story was allegedly posted on the net by a 14-year-old boy who copied the website design of the popular Chinese-language Ming Pao newspaper. The teenager, who has been arrested, was quoted as saying he did it for fun, and didn't think anybody would believe the story, which claimed that Hong Kong had been declared an "infected city".The government used the text message on Tuesday after the report appeared, prompting panic among some residents who - thinking the former British colony would be shut down - rushed out to stock up on food and supplies.The government's text response said: "Director of health announced at 3pm today there is no plan to declare Hong Kong as an infected area.""We wanted to get our message out as quickly as possible to allay fears," Terence Yu, a spokesman for the commerce, information and technology bureau, has said.Severe acute respiratory syndrome, or Sars, has killed at least 78 people and infected more than 2,200 worldwide.The online rumour fuelled Hong Kong residents' fears of Sars, which already have hundreds of thousands of people wearing surgical masks. Some fear touching elevator buttons.A total of 16 people have died of Sars in Hong Kong, while more than 700 people have fallen ill and hundreds have been placed under quarantine in the city with a population of 6.8 million, with almost as many mobile phones."At first I wondered why they sent me such a weird message," said Ada Ko, a 47-year-old office assistant. "It's useful, but it came in a  bit too late to calm the public.""It's a bit odd," said 20-year-old student Forrest Kan, who had been unaware of the rumour until he got the message.Due to network traffic, some people didn't get the government text message for about six hours, and some never got the message at all.KL Ho,  a telecommunications professor at the University of Hong Kong, said mass text messaging - or SMS messaging - was justified in emergencies, but could potentially be abused."It's very important for phone operators to identify where the information comes from," Professor Ho said."It's also very important to remind users not to believe just one single source," Prof Ho said. "It'll be very dangerous if they do so. They  should check the information from other channels, including TV and radio."Mr Yu said officials would talk to mobile phone carriers about improving delivery if text messages are used again.
Twenty years after the state got out of the telecoms business by privatising BT, government is making a comeback. The reason is broadband. In parts of the country where telecom firms are failing to lay networks, local authorities are filling the gap.When Durham county council's new high speed network, Durhamnet, is officially launched this spring, it will connect small businesses and homes as well as schools, libraries and council offices. To Alan Hodgson, the council's director of e-government services, the reason is obvious. "We have massive market failure in Durham. The telcos aren't interested; they are looking for instant return on investment. We had to do it."Shropshire and Somerset county councils have similar plans. According to a survey by the Department of Trade and Industry and the local government IT managers' associationSocITM(Broadband in local government: a snapshot in 2002), a quarter of local authorities intend to allow local companies to use their broadband networks. Nearly 40% are opening the networks to voluntary organisations.The department says that such arrangements are legal. "We're acutely aware that the market may not be delivering services, so we are willing to see local authorities and regional development agencies intervene in cases of market failure," a spokesperson said. "However, in the long term, we'd prefer local authorities to take a hands-off approach."BT declined to comment. Hodgson says he told the industry what he was doing: "I told them, if you've got any thoughts of a challenge, get on with it." None did.Durhamnet already connects more than 300 schools, 40 libraries and other council buildings. This is the "anchor tenant", which justifies the investment. Another user is the NHS: the local hospital, North Durham and Darlington, transmits bandwidth-hungry x-ray images over the network.A business park is already connected by radio. "The next step is domestic dwellings," Hodgson says. "We'll probably do a target area first, not the whole county. There's huge pent-up demand."Another county with broadband plans is Shropshire. It has only two ADSL-enabled exchanges, reaching just 11% of the county's small businesses. A council survey found that a further 19% were interested but unable to connect. "It is clear market failure," says Kevin Malone, the council's IT manager.The answer is Switch on Shropshire, a network that will provide fixed fibre and copper connections as well as satellite links to remote areas.Somerset, meanwhile, is working with the South West Regional Assembly to tackle its own case of market failure. "Only three places have exchanges: Bridgwater, Yeovil and Taunton," says councillor Alan Gloak, responsible for economic development, "and even there, it's not the whole town." The plan is to set up a not-for-profit company to provide connections. One user could be the Glastonbury festival, Gloak says.With the official map of broadband Britain showing only spots of coverage outside the Brighton to Manchester spine, there is plenty of room for other local authorities to take a lead.The SocITM/DTI survey predicts that within two years, nearly 600,000 local government workstations will be connected to broadband. "Overall this shows quite a positive picture of local authorities wanting to exploit the benefits of broadband for the local community, especially with SMEs &#91;small to medium enterprises&#93;, assuming that they can work out an appropriate business model."The business model is a big question. Even Hodgson admits he does not want to plunge into becoming an ISP for half a million households.However, he has a unique experience of running a local authority network as a business. Durhamnet grew from an initiative set up by one of the county's district councils, Derwentside. The district, mainly famous for the steelmaking town of Consett, was one of the first to install   a fibre-optic metropolitan area network. It linked village halls and community centres as well as council offices. "Kids came in because they were attracted to the games, but then parents and schools got involved."With this experience under its belt, Derwentside started to win networking business for other authorities such as Gateshead."We found ourselves managing internet across 2,000 desktops. It was big stuff," says Hodgson. "The district IT department had an annual budget of &#163;800,000 but our turnover in some years was hitting &#163;3m or &#163;4m. I had to get a legal opinion that it was OK." At Derwentside, the profits funded a three-year modern apprenticeship scheme, giving local school-leavers industry standard IT skills.According to Malone, local authorities have a legitimate role in raising the profile and awareness of broadband. But getting into the telecommunications business is another matter.Especially for consumers. Although the Shropshire scheme is aimed at SMEs, most of those are home offices. Malone doesn't like to shout about connecting consumers as "the DTI gets jittery".Malone, who chairs SociITM's broadband group, says that the government still needs to clarify some issues of competition and state aid. One area of possible difficulty is inclusivity: local authorities offering broadband have to treat all businesses equally. They should also charge for connection, though this is usually bundled in a package of support, including training.And local authorities need to be aware of their limitations, Malone says. "It would be rather foolish for local authorities to come in and believe they can do better than the telcos and make a profit. At what point do businesses begin to rail about subsidising the service? And at what point does the council tax payer say: 'I pay you to empty my bins, not to provide broadband'?"
Britain's doctors are about to announce a breakthrough. They have agreed on what information should go into our online medical records.The decision could change the face of healthcare. The basic idea, set out by the prime minister nearly five years ago, is that if you live in Manchester but happen to get run over by a bus in Torquay, emergency crews should have access to your medical records. Such information could be a life-saver, especially if you are on medication or are allergic to antibiotics.Nearly everyone thinks this is a good idea. But designing a useful, universal electronic health record is not a trivial problem. There's no point in merely networking existing NHS systems, even if it were technically possible. In any case, there is no way to guarantee that a record applies to a particular individual, especially if they have a common name.Further, records contain information - about mental health and sexually transmitted diseases, for example - that patients gave in confidence and don't want shared.For these reasons and more, doctors the world over have been wrestling for years with the terminology, content and scope of electronic records.Last week, Peter Hutton, chair of the Academy of Medical Colleges, which represents some 90,000 doctors, announced a breakthrough. A working group has reached agreement on what will go into a system called the integrated health information spine. The spine is one of the new NHS IT services being set up by the &#163;2.3bn national programme for IT.Professor Hutton told the Healthcare Computing 2003 conference that the spine will contain four elements making up a womb-to-tomb health record. They are:&#183;Basic personal details, tagged with the 10-digit NHS number. (Issued at 28 weeks' gestation, rather than at birth as at present.)&#183;Crucial health information, such as blood group and allergies.&#183;Summaries of medical treatments: a note, for example, that a particular operation had taken place. Detailed records, such as test results, would continue to be held locally.&#183;A list of GPs and other NHS organisations with which the patient is registered.The data will be extracted from current systems and made available across the NHS's intranet to anyone with the right level of clearance. It will also be available to the patient whenever they want.One issue remains to be solved: that of control. Today, the NHS operates on a muddy assumption that patients give "implied consent" for their information to be shared. This is legally questionable. New rules, due to be published this summer, will give patients control over what goes onto the spine and who is able to see which pieces of information. In some cases, this may be a named individual rather than a category such as "A&amp;E doctors".With the specifications and rules of access for the spine agreed, all we have to do is build it. It would be nice if that turned out to be the easy bit.
You would think that free software would be an attractive option for a government keen on prudence. But until now, the UK has made little use of open source software: programs which can be used without licence payments and rewritten at will, as long as each user's improvements are offered freely to every other user.However, the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) is unveiling an online procurement system that runs on Linux, the open source operating system famous for its penguin logo. It is thought to be the first major use of Linux within central UK government.The system, called Purchase &amp; Pay, went live on February 3 over the government's secure intranet, and is already handling more than 80% of the department's stationery buying, replacing paper-based systems. It is based on UK software firm Belmin's Eros e-procurement software, which is not going open source, although Belmin is charging the government only for added services, rather than for use of the software.Eros has already been used within the DWP to save more than &#163;30m a year on the ordering of forms and leaflets, as well as in other parts of   the state sector.Purchase &amp; Pay is operated by the Office of Government Commerce (OGC), a part of the Treasury that works for better value for money in government procurement in areas including IT and construction. The OGC intends to extend this system to other kinds of procurement and to start paying invoices online - all cutting administration costs.Last year, the OGC signed a bulk-buy deal on office productivity software for the whole state sector, saving the taxpayer about &#163;100m over three years on Microsoft's Office suite, including Word, Excel and PowerPoint.The OGC wants to spread online procurement across government, and sees this project as a trailblazer. "This work will give us access to valuable experience in the operation of open source software, whilst contributing to DWP's needs for improved efficiency and effectiveness," says Martin Sykes, the executive director of the OGC's e-commerce directorate.The OGC has been nudging government departments towards consideration of open source for some time. Last year's office software deal also set up discounts on rival products from IBM and Sun Microsystems. Both firms promote open source software within their product range - IBM was involved with implementing Purchase &amp; Pay - whereas Microsoft is known for its antipathy towards the concept.Furthermore, Sun makes a cut-down version of its office software available free under the general public licence (GPL), the standard licence used for free software including Linux.The OGC says it does not want open source to be used for all government software but does want it to be considered more widely. In this case, it made sense. "Our decision to use open source software was based on its proven reliability, portability and lower licensing costs. Overall it represented best value for money in this application," said Hugh Barrett, chief executive of the OGC's buying solutions division.Open source software dominates the running of the internet. Web server software Apache runs two-thirds of the world's websites, according to Netcraft, a UK research firm. Sendmail email server software handles the majority of the world's messages and Perl programming language is widely used on interactive websites.Linux is widely used as an operating system for web servers, but few large organisations have trusted it to run other systems. Even if you save money by not paying licence fees, you are likely to pay more to IT consultants for getting it to work - or so the thinking has run. Many big IT buyers are as brand-conscious as teenagers, preferring to buy something from a well-known company rather than getting it free from a worldwide group of programmers: this way they feel covered if it goes wrong.However, the DWP is not alone in taking the open source plunge. Anglo-Dutch conglomerate Unilever plans to move all its systems to Linux by 2006, and thinks it will save &#163;66m a year as a result.Given the potential savings, and open source's "public sector" philosophy of working for a common good, it is perhaps surprising that there have not been more projects taking advantage of open source software. One of the few is Viper, a Linux-run system that creates video identity parades for police forces, developed by West Yorkshire police.Legal issues have been problematic. For example, the public health laboratory service (PHLS) in Wales commissioned a program for monitoring infection in hospitals. Called InControl, it was taken up by hospitals across the country.English NHS trusts were keen to follow suit, so in 2001 PHLS Wales planned to release the software under the GPL. This means the software is provided free on an "as is" basis - the provider organisation has no liability for errors.But it took a year for PHLS Wales's lawyers to adjust a standard GPL to their satisfaction. "There was a lot of red tape," says a spokesman. However, he adds that InControl is now available to all users of NHSNet, the health service's national intranet, and has been adopted by hospitals across England. Furthermore, some are set to provide their improvements and extensions to the software to all users for free - part of the open source philosophy.Greater use of open source is supported by Richard Allan MP, the Liberal Democrats' IT spokesman. "I've been particularly impressed by the way in which it allows collaborative development, which I think is particularly beneficial in the government context," he says.He believes that government should sometimes pay more to developers for all rights to their code, so the state can then make it open source. That is not to say he thinks the government should "religiously follow one model. But open source has not been fully exploited."There are a lot of people who are willing to put in a bit extra if they are working for the public sector - it's true of doctors and teachers - but I think it's also true of IT," says Mr Allan, who used to work in IT for the NHS. "I think open source would help realise that goodwill."What is open source?Much software is "packaged": the user cannot  see, let alone change, the source code, the  individual instructions that make up programs.  Furthermore, its use is licensed, and software  firms club together to chase and prosecute those  using their programs illegally. With open source  software, users can change the code and use it  free. The theory is that programmers all want  good quality software, so why not collaborate on  writing code and ironing out errors? This  collaboration usually takes place online - and  open source software is widely used to run the  internet, with the most popular web and email  server software being open source.LinksMicrosoft Office alternativeUK information on LinuxSite used by programmers to collaborate on  software:http://sourceforge.net
Meet Denise, a self- employed, forty-something hairdresser from Oldham. Denise is married to Mike, an actor and director for a local theatre, and is mother to David (16), Rachel (14), Jack (11) and Joe (9). Denise does not have any ring-tones on her phone, no personal answer phone message, and the phone's clock isn't even set to the correct time. Yet on shoulders like hers rests the future of the next generation of mobile phones.A month after the launch of 3, the first third generation (3G) mobile network in the UK, does Denise really need 3G?This was the subject of a public debate this week to launch MobileUK: Mobile phones and everyday life, a new report from the Work Foundation's iSociety project. Denise, along with Jack the Essex plumber, Louise the single mum and Darius the freelance IT worker from west London, featured heavily in the report's investigation into how real people use their mobile phones, and what the future holds for the gamut of new services available on 3G networks.Fifteen years ago, mobile phones were almost unheard of outside London. Between 1998 and 2001, British ownership of mobile phones rose from 27% to 73%. Today, more than 75% of Britons have a mobile, and 90% of young people. As the iSociety report notes, this massive uptake was driven by mobiles becoming cheaper and better designed and by the introduction of pre-pay tariffs.ISociety's researchers shadowed their subjects over three days to see how mobile phones fit into their lives. As one of the report's authors, James Crabtree, explains, other research into this area has often created a "false image of a mobile society" because it "concentrates only on elite groups of heavy users, particularly young urban professionals, mobile workers and teenagers."So what's the reality? The people interviewed turned out to have "strong and sophisticated" views about their phones, and were highly pragmatic about controlling the costs. In particular, British people are developing "mobile manners" around the polite use of mobiles. Jack, Denise, Louise and Darius considered talking over a mobile to be pricey, sometimes pointless and less efficient than texting or even simply ringing at a pre-arranged time and hanging up. And the description of Denise and her family poring over complex tariff charts on   her kitchen table will sound familiar to anyone who has debated how to pay for their mobile.The view that family conversation is dying appears to be unfounded. The report found that mobiles were allowing families to talk more often with each other, not less, even if only at a distance.Interestingly, having the latest model of phone is becoming less important, and even a negative. Jack the plumber said that if his clients saw him carrying a phone capable of taking and sending pictures, they'd think he was earning too much money.Ultimately, the MobileUK report predicts that the explosive adoption of mobile phones in the late 1990s is unlikely to occur with third generation mobiles from the likes of 3. ISociety is sceptical that Vodafone's planned 3G launch at Christmas or 3's launch last month will be viewed as watershed events. The reason is that we already have what we wantfrom mobiles. In fact, the move to 3G is more likely to follow the pattern of how consumers have gradually started to move from dial-up internet access to high speed broadband: you still use it to email, but now it's faster.Simple voice calls remain the "killer app. This leads the report's authors to wonder why people would upgrade their phones to include other services, since many consumers don't even use the current services available on existing 2G phones.Furthermore, "3G services will suffer if they are not priced competitively," and 3G operators will find it tough weaning customers off the well-loved pre-pay tarrifs, whatever extra bells and whistles they offer.So what did the researchers conclude might actually coax the likes of Denise, Jack, Louise and Darius from their existing mobiles? The researchers made five suggestions.A 3G application has to suit a specific task, such as Jack being able to see a leak in a pipe at a customer's house via a picture message. Services that are "sociable", such as sharing family pictures, will work. 3G networks will have to be more competitively priced, given that some estimates say 3G phones could cost up to a thousand pounds in their first year of use. Services based around time, such as getting a video of a goal straight after a football match, will work. Lastly, any services that "tempt users to interact or transact will have to be simple and work properly."Speaking at the debate, John Fletcher, senior consultant at telecomms researchers Analysys, commented: "We've never purchased a cathode ray tube in Dixons, only a TV. It's about solving problems not selling technology. Wap was a classic example of technology being foisted on people that left them disappointed, cynical and sceptical. This is a real problem for the 3G market."Dr Ben Anderson,deputy director of Chimera, said: "We are increasingly realising that the 3G killer app is not knowable. It may be a case of just allowing people to play with the technology to find out what works best."Research firm IDG predicts that mobile phones will outnumber landline phones by 2006, but, iSociety warns, "technology for its own sake", not targeted at everyday tasks, will see Jack, Denise, Louise and Darius simply continuing to use the phones they already have.
Rainbow Six 3: Raven ShieldPC, &#163;34.99 Storm/UbiSoft****You have to hand it to Tom Clancy. Despite being something of a one-trick pony, his mix of cold-war intrigue and modern firepower makes perfect material for videogames.Raven Shield has all the depth you might expect and combines it with the Unreal 3D engine, which is perfect for gloomy urban landscapes. But the value of RS is all in the detail: choosing the right weapons, teammates and tactical plan - that's why you pick it over dozens of lighter shoot-'em-ups around.The 15 missions are suitably varied   and commanding your squad is always fun. Still, each level is fraught with unexpected danger and as every direct hit kills you, there is a genuine tension not felt in many other games.For my own taste, Rainbow Six remains too fiddly to be fun. However, you can't criticise it for cornering its niche market. As far as squad-based tactical shooters go, there is no serious alternative to Clancy.    (MA)Super Monkey Ball 2GameCube, &#163;39.99 Sega/Infogrames ****If you deplore the overwhelming trend towards dizzying complexity fuelled by the advent of super-powerful next-generation consoles, then the chances are that you own a copy of Super Monkey Ball.Hailed as the purest game since Tetris, it came across like a 21st- century version of Marble Madness, augmented by a bunch of wonderfully imaginative and addictive mini-games. With Super Monkey Ball 2, Sega has concentrated on providing more of the same with tweaks. This   time around you are exposed to fearsomely difficult levels much earlier, and marked improvements have been made to the mini-games.There are six new ones - Monkey Boat, Monkey Shot, Monkey Dogfight, Monkey Soccer, Monkey Baseball and Monkey Tennis - of which Monkey Tennis and Monkey Soccer are most likely to acquire cult status.If you were in a churlish mood, you could argue that Super Monkey Ball 1.5 would be a more apposite appellation. But Super Monkey Ball 2, like its predecessor, is such a joyously fun-packed and addictive game that you would be a fool not to buy it if you own a GameCube.FreelancerPC, &#163;39.99 Digital Anvil/Microsoft***Freelancers are often late with their work, but even the most cynical hack would blanch at the six years it has taken Freelancer to appear.Originally announced in 1997, Freelancer set out to capture one of gaming's holy grails - recreating Elite for the 21st century. By attempting to marry the free-flowing freedom of the classic 80s space sim with state-of-the-art graphics, Freelancer had gamers dribbling in anticipation. Sadly, while being a solid achievement, Freelancer fails to live up to these lofty expectations.It's the absence of depth that is its downfall. Yes you can choose your own way in-between missions, but the variety of tasks is limited. It soon becomes clear that there is only so much you can do beyond the confines of the storyline.Despite all this, there is something addictive about Freelancer. The easy controls and shallow learning curve play their part, as does the overall visual polish. Even though Freelancer fails to live up to its immense promise, it is still an appealing proposition.
Chain mailI received an email from Microsoft with "the latest version of security update, the March 2003, Cumulative Patch update which eliminates all known security vulnerabilities affecting Internet Explorer, Outlook and Outlook Express". There's an attachment I haven't opened. I'm suspicious. Is it genuine or a hoax?Andrew SteedMicrosoft does not write to people at random, never distributes security patches by email, and will not ask you to phone a premium rate phone line. Further, as similar emails suggest, Microsoft has not taken over the Catholic Church, and there is no way Bill Gates is going to send you $1,000. In fact, you can safely assume that 100% of all security fixes, virus warnings, chain letters and spams are hoaxes, except the ones that are attempts at criminal fraud. Fortunately, it is very easy to confirm that a suspicious message is actually a hoax: just paste the keyword(s) from the email into Google with the word hoax. For example, JDBGMGR hoax gets 23,500 hits, while SULFNBK hoax gets 14,200. Alternatively, the Virus Myths website has an A-Z of hundreds of email "viruses" athttp://vmyths.com/ hoax.cfm, from the !0000 trick to the Yukon3U Trojan/virus. If an email warning was serious, it would come directly from a reputable anti-virus company such as F-Secure, McAfee, Sophos or Symantec, usually in a newsletter, and contain links to further information on their website. If an email warning has been forwarded by eight people in five countries on its way to you, you can assume you would already have heard about anything important from sources that are not so ludicrously easy to fake.Web itI have many documents that I want to put on the web, but the effort of removing all the formatting and then reformatting for web pages is time-consuming.Margaret LevyYou don't need to do any reformatting to create simple web pages. All you have to do is load your document into Microsoft Word or similar word processor, select File|Save As from the menu, and save it in HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) format. All being well, the resulting web page will look exactly the same as it does in Microsoft Word. You will    probably not win any prizes for web design, usability or HTML coding but it does the job. However, this approach can get tedious if you need to convert more than a few pages, so you might want to try a program with a "batch conversion" facility.Simtel's directory of HTML Conversion Utilitiesoffers a few, such as tohtm131.exe and p2d100.zip. Another option isCZ-Doc2Htm V3.0.Thumbs downI use a laptop with a touchpad. When typing, my thumbs accidentally graze the touchpad, which highlights a portion of the text and deletes it. How can I deactivate the touchpad when typing?Dr Krisantha WeerasuriyaThis is a common problem, and sometimes manufacturers try to deal with it intelligently. Hewlett-Packard, for example, has tried putting a recessed on/off button next to the touchpad. Otherwise, the most common approach is to disable it via the Windows Control Panel. Double-click the System icon and select the tab marked Device Manager. Click the plus sign next to Mouse, and select whatever pad is installed, such as a Synaptics PS/2 TouchPad. Click Properties, and tick the box that says: Disable in this hardware profile. An alternative is to cover the pad with a stiff piece of plastic, such as a credit card. However, I would never buy a notebook PC with a touchpad. I think the TrackPoint miniature joystick invented by IBM is far superior, and you can get these mainly in IBM ThinkPad and Toshiba notebooks. As a touch- typist, I would also try to avoid any notebook computer with the keyboard placed inconveniently at the back of the base, instead of the front; unfortunately, this stupid design feature seems to be almost universal. Many notebooks are now unsuitable for serious typing unless you can plug in a proper external keyboard, such as theIBM Model Mor "clicky AT" keyboard.Hot lapSome time ago, I bought a Hi-Grade laptop, which failed and had to be fitted with a new motherboard. After repair, the cooling fan rarely ran, and I challenged Hi-Grade, suggesting that the original assembly must have been faulty, because the fan ran continuously. Recently, I purchased a high spec Dell laptop. Shortly after start-up, the fan ran continuously at full speed. I demanded a full refund, to which they agreed. Surely, if an aim of manufacturers is to maximise laptop battery life, then a constantly running cooling fan defeats this object.Leonard FortWrong way round: failure is less likely if the fan runs continuously. Processors fail when they overheat, so the default behaviour ought to be to run the fan in borderline cases. Intel's Pentium 4 is designed to turn itself off before it fries, but if a fan fails, a processor without this kind of protection can burn up in about a minute. For this reason, Intel recommends the use of Mobile Pentiums in notebooks, not desktop chips such as the P4. The Pentium-M uses a heat-exchanger to remove heat, but even so, it can run at 22 watts and the core can reach at 100F. If you want to minimise fan noise, go for a slower processor or consider a PC based on Intel's new Banias Mobile Pentium, which is part of the Centrino chip set. This has been designed to use less power and therefore it generates less heat, while delivering better performance than comparable Pentium chips with the same nominal clock speed. Another alternative is the Transmeta Crusoe processor, though the lack of performance may be noticeable. If noise is not an issue, running a fan doesn't consume a significant amount of battery power.Email softwareCan you recommend any alternative email software? I use Outlook Express, like most people.Adrian GreemanThere are lots of alternatives, but preferences tend to be personal. You could try Eudora, Pegasus and The Bat - which I think is in order of popularity, or possibly reverse order of merit. Also-rans includeQuickMailfor Windows and Mac,AvirMail, andPopcorn. For more examples, seehttp://masl.to/?Z5E1320C3.The Outlook email software in the next version of Microsoft Office looks good, and should be out this summer.Backchat&#183;Jamie Clark hated the RealOne player. He wanted to go back to an earlier version, and I pointed him to theOldversion.comwebsite. Bill Best from Sheffield points out that "legacy versions of a lot of RealNetworks software can be found athttp://forms.real.com/real/player/blackjack.html".&#183;Keith Arrowsmith wanted a UK-oriented replacement for My BBC, a discontinued news service that allowed users to select subjects from pre-defined panels. Chris Sealey suggestswww.newsglance.co.uk, which is nice but not configurable.&#183;Andy Northedge wanted to remove the games from Windows 2000. Andy Williams adds that it is possible to disable specific applications using Group Policy Object (GPO) settings. Go to Start|Run, type gpedit.msc and change the Local Computer Policy|User Configuration|Administrative Templates|System|Don't Run Specific Windows Applications to include the games files in the System32 folder. There is a Microsoft Knowledge Base article about it athttp://support.microsoft.com/?kbid=322176.
Guglielmo Marconi would be rubbing his eyes in disbelief. More than a hundred years after he sent the first radio signal across the Atlantic, the medium he discovered is making a strong comeback.In 2001, the numbers listening to radio exceeded those watching television for first time in seven years. Now it is experiencing a new renaissance as digital radios fall in price and, against early pessimistic predictions, are fast becoming must-have items.Leading the charge is Imagination Technologies which sold 40,000 of its attractive retro &#163;99 Evoke-1 radio over Christmas. It is forecast that digital radio ownership could reach 500,000 by the end of the year and, as prices continue to fall, a million a year later.Since Imagination, in addition to manufacturing these radios, claims an 80% market share of DAB (digital audio broadcasting) processors, it could easily become another UK success story like ARM of Cambridge which designs the chip of choice for mobile phones.Interestingly, both of these have a link with the BBC. ARM traces its ancestry back to Acorn, which made its mark from manufacturing the BBC's range of computers, while digital radio has taken off mainly as a result of BBC investment.The Evoke-1 (which will be joined in May by a portable model costing &#163;170) is a typically global product. Designed in Kings Langley, Hertfordshire, the chip is manufactured in Taiwan, after which it is sent to Wales to be packaged into a ceramic chip case before journey ing on to Austria, where the digital radio module is added. It is then dispatched to China for final assembly.Imagination has not got the field to itself as a number of companies are planning to cash in on the digital boom. Digital radio (not to be confused with internet radio), provides clear reliable signals and is a market where Britain has already established an early world lead.There are more than 300 services available and still rising with around half exclusive to digital. But the fascinating possibiity is what will happen when tiny DAB radio chips are bundled into mobile phones in a year or two.Unlike the FM radio chips in some current models, they will feature a multiplicity of channels sending voice, data or even pictures and, most interestingly,   will include a "return path" from the phone to provide interactivity.Where all this is leading is anyone's guess. People don't currently take radios with them in the hope they might have a spare moment. But if they come as a standard part of a lightweight phone, maybe with a Bluetooth short distance wireless earpiece, it could be different. It could easily turn out to be the biggest boost for broadcasting since radios were installed in cars.And the cost - under &#163;100m so far - pales into insignificance beside the &#163;22.5bn down payment made by the telecom companies for their 3G licences. Digital radio could usher in a new golden age - on a shoestring.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
There's a difference between the technology that people use at home and in the office: the stuff they use at home is better. And the gap is becoming so wide, it's embarrassing.Today, many home users have fast PCs with 2GHz or better Pentium 4 chips running Windows XP, and possibly Microsoft Office XP. A small but rapidly growing number have broadband internet connections and Wi-Fi wireless networks. Their printers produce images that look like colour photographs. Millions have digital cameras and multimedia mobile phones.What do they have in the office? Most likely 450MHz or 600MHz Pentium II or III machines running Windows 98SE or worse. They are still using Office 97, which is an antique. They may have a broadband connection, but it's shared by so many people that it's slower than dial-up. They probably have access to a decent networked laser printer, but it's mono only, and that's about it.It is not the first time we have had a mismatch between home and business uses of technology. After personal computing arrived in the 1970s, more than a few IT departments spent the best part of a decade in denial, clinging to minis or mainframes with dumb terminals. People who had good economic grounds for buying a PC had to use creative accounting to bring them in by the back door. (At least when notebook PCs, Palm handhelds and smart phones appeared, they were small enough to smuggle in through the front door.)The millennium bug is partly to blame. Companies worried about their systems failing at the turn of the century bought new PCs,in 1999 rather than waste money auditing and fixing the old ones. But the dotcom disaster and the general financial downturn have since slowed the replacement cycle, so some are still using PCs that should have been pensioned off.But a natural leaning towards the "command and control" approach is also implicated. I've yet to meet an IT department that didn't argue for standardisation as a way of reducing support costs, even if they'd standardised on an unreliable operating system (Windows 98) instead of a reliable one (Windows 2000). But the result is like a second world war convoy, with everyone condemned to sail at the speed of the slowest ship.This is bad for everyone. First, it means companies are often failing to benefit from new technologies, which really are easier to use, more reliable, and much more versatile than the products that dominated the last century. Second, it means individuals are not being given the chance to exploit existing skills, or to develop new ones. Third, it means that separate divisions, departments, workgroups and individual users will find their own solutions, which are unlikely to follow whatever passes for company policy.When computing was new and very expensive, maybe a restrictive attitude made sense. But now there are people entering the workforce who have been using PCs all their lives, and the technology is cheap enough for them to use at home. It's time to start putting it to work.
Linux in limelightI praise the Guardian for publicising Linux (The route to root, March 27, and A world without Windows? in Business Solutions). I run Red Hat Linux 8.0 on my office PC and find it more reliable, stable and faster than Windows. The online help community is second-to-none as well.I can do everything I need: word-process, create spreadsheets and presentations with Open Office; view online content and send emails with Mozilla; and analyse and manipulate images with proprietary image processing software. All you need is the hardware-specific information along with network configuration information that any friendly technician should be happy to share! I have even installed it on my parents' PC (them of the somewhat lesser computer- literacy!) with little complaint.One thing that needs to be tackled is formats for saving files. Many in my organisation are relatively naive and believe Microsoft Office is the standard format. This is in fact a secret proprietary format. Having open standards for saving documents (something Open Office attempts to address) will open up and make transparent the monopoly.Having used Linux for the past five years, I believe it is about time this little gem was in the limelight as a viable operating system alternative.Andy WellerMore pleaseWhen is Online's bias against Linux going to stop? You occasionally have articles by complete neophytes loading Linux for the first time, such as in The route to root. On the facing page you have Jack Schofield's weekly column to help solve exactly the same sort of problems that Karlin Lillington is finding when installing Linux.Lillington says "I'd have to go in as root, ... I cannot imagine an average PC user ever attempting this." No, because the average PC user doesn't realise they are doing the same sort of potentially dangerous operation every time they cause something to be changed in that impenetrable midden called The Registry.Please find someone who understands Linux to write about it in an informed way so your readers can understand it is fundamentally better designed, safer and more robust.People say you have to be very intelligent to run Linux. No, the distinction is that it is no good trying to use your intelligence on other more widely used products - it will get you nowhere. With Linux, you soon learn how to solve your own problems. Perhaps you just send out a cry to the thousands of techies ready to help. Perhaps you read the manuals and work out the solution yourself. If you get really hooked, you find the bug in the source code and contribute to the good.A weekly feature by a Linux guru is long overdue.Laurie MoyeBayesian rules ruleContrary to Richard Fletcher's letter (March 27), the officialMozilla 1.3 releasenow contains the Bayesian spam filtering. I've spent 10 minutes training it, and I believe it's 95% accurate (and getting better). All spam goes to a special folder and you get the chance to review it before deleting it forever. And it's rock solid right now!Brian AgnewNo to blogsAny time I open the Guardian or check the online site, I am continually reminded of the fact that there are people with nothing better to do than tell the world what they had for breakfast. I'm referring to the Guardian's odd obsession with blogging. Maybe five years ago this would have merited the attention it's getting but these days it's pretty old news.Blogs occasionally offer an interesting reflection of modern society but there are as many self-indulgent, useless and "quirky" sites out there. And then, just as we thought the war in Iraq might prove to be the most newsworthy source for the paper, we find a four-page article in G2 (March 24) about... a blog. The Guardian has now started referring to war blogs as "warblogs". Very clever but it doesn't make blogs any more interesting...Jerome TurnerHappy endingYou printed a letter from me (March 20) about problems accessing BTBroadband and CompuServe. There have been a number of helpful replies. One is from BT, which makes it clear that, whatever we were told, "&#91;BT&#93; have to provide open access to the internet and therefore do not block access to ISPs".It looks like our problems may have stemmed from an undiagnosed glitch in the system. In a few months, we shall try again, this time with a name from BT to help us if necessary.Geraldine Murray
CyberwarThe idea of cyberwar alongside Gulf War 2 is flying excitably around the internet. Not, we think, because there actually is a cyberwar going on, at least as far as the Iraqis are concerned: unsurprisingly Iraq's internet resources are in a fairly crude state. According to the CIA World Factbook, in 2001 there were 12,500 people in Iraq using the internet.While, hmm, in America there are 165 million. So far the main casualty of this not-cyberwar has been Al-Jazeera's new English website, a few US and British businesses which have had anti-war slogans hacked into them, and that's it. Some conspiracy theorists are suggesting it's all being done by the American government, but others (there are a lot around, this is the internet) point out the US government is clearly trying to keep the internet going as a means of communication for any Iraqis who want to turn ol' Saddam in. Meanwhile, one imagines that the Iraqis have got slightly more pressing things on their mind than launching a denial of service attack on the White House. So basically it's pro-war hackers against anti-war hackers, which we think actually makes it cybercivilwar. Which is fine, really, if it keeps them busy and off the streets.english.aljazeera.netwww.uruklink.netwww.salon.com/tech/feature/2003/03/21/iraq_online/index.html?xGary HartProof that the blogging movement is spreading far and wide: the well-known Gary Hart, one of the democrat Presidential not-very-hopefuls for 2004, has started a blog. He obviously, as several commentators pointed out, really Gets It: he's using Moveable Type, (a very stylish free personal publishing system) and MeetUp to organise his supporters.Funnily enough he doesn't refer to Donna Rice, the woman with whom he had an affair that helped bring an end to his 1988 presidential campaign, after he told journalists to "Follow me around, it will be boring".www.garyhartnews.com/hart/blogwww.movabletype.orgwww.meetup.comBreak warningFor other homeworkers there's now a dear little program that allows you to recreate those halcyon days in the office. Remember the way your computer used to flash up little messages caringly telling you to take a break, just after you'd got back from a sneaky fag in the stairwell? Well Workrave does the same thing. It's a package that tries to protect you from RSI by repeatedly telling you to get up and walk around. Of course, some of us don't need telling.workrave.sourceforge.netMisleadingGood to know the American government still has time to think about pornography: the House of Representatives last week voted to ban pornographic sites with misleading addresses and computer-generated child pornography. Which should create a big problem for Whitehouse.com, the porn site with a  slightly misleading name. Vice-president Dick Cheney is also in conflict with Whitehouse.org, a parody site which, he insists, should not be carrying photographs and articles about his wife. Complete coincidence, of course.www.whitehouse.govwww.whitehouse.orgThe OnionFinally, just in case you'd forgotten it was out there, The Onion, the satirical American website (not an oxymoron, apparently) is outdoing itself at the moment. Pay it a quick visit to read gems like 'US forms own UN': "We gave the old UN a go for I don't know how many years, but it just wasn't working," said Dick Cheney, a US delegate to the USUN. I can't tell you how much easier it is to achieve consensus when you don't have to worry about dissent." Other great stories this week: 'Dead Iraqi would have loved democracy'. Thank you.www.theonion.comNew &amp; noted&#183;Collections of stories told by anyone who comes along:www.otherpeoplesstories.com&#183;A report by the US Lawyers Committee for Human Rights on the erosion of civil liberties since 9/11:www.lchr.org/us_law/loss/imbalance/powers.pdf&#183;Dedicated to Alice in all her forms:www.alice-in-wonderland.fsnet.co.uk&#183;New game on same model as Celebdaq, but with blogs. Hmm:www.blogshares.com
An online sermon service for vicars who find themselves short of inspiration is being launched by a Church of England lay reader.Lastminute.com, Bob Austin's website, offers homilies for all occasions, each a listener friendly 10 minutes long, allegedly free of fundamentalist ranting and trendy liberalism.A professional writer and lay reader, Mr Austin has a licence to preach in the Peterborough diocese."The sermons have all been pulpit tested, so they are congregation friendly," he said. "They all have a strong teaching element, which is not necessarily received wisdom in the Church of England these days. We have 55 sermons listed so far."There are priests who will admit, maybe only to themselves, that they are not very good sermon writers and so this service may help them. They can customise the sermons to their own needs. I don't think people will notice."Mr Austin's service guarantees "thoroughly researched and topical sermons at short notice", and help with youth study sessions, informal services and school assemblies.The sermons already on the web are "thought provoking...and do not involve...doctrinally controversial views".The website offers a free Palm Sunday sermon. But normally, clueless clergy must pay &#163;8 a time to lift a thought for the day.
Bosses hit outGovernment IT chiefs have attacked computer suppliers for contributing to IT disasters by making "lies" and "exorbitant claims".Peter Gershon, head of the Treasury's Office of Government Commerce and Andrew Pinder, the e-envoy, were speaking on Tuesday at a conference on public-private partnerships.Gershon, charged with cutting procurement bills across the public sector, said: "Every day we are faced with suppliers who make exorbitant claims about the performance of their products and we are bitterly disappointed."Pinder was blunter.Government IT projects had failed because of "incompetent workmanship" from "crap suppliers", he said. "Let's be honest about this: they &#91;failures&#93; have also been about suppliers who have lied to us."Senior officials feel that after fiascoes at the Passport Agency, air traffic control and the courts service, the government has done a great deal of breast-beating. It is now time for industry to do the same.Paradox lost?Spending money on IT really does improve your bottom line. That's the conclusion of a economic study published this week which claims to disprove the "productivity paradox" associated with computers. The study, by a private research consultancy, London Economics, claims that investment in IT accounted for 47% of the UK's growth in productivity between 1992 and 2000.Of 12 sectors studied, manufacturing gained the most from buying computers. In public administration, where productivity declined during the years studied, the decline would have been worse without IT.The study suggests that the infamous "productivity paradox" - the discovery in the early 1990s that computers were not increasing productivity - may be a thing of the past. That is good news for the report's sponsor, the network equipment company Cisco Systems.Cuba camp linkA division of the services firm that runs Camp X-Ray, the US detention camp in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, is to run the new NHS programme management office. Richard Granger, the director general of NHS IT, confirmed that consultancy Kellogg Brown and Root (KBR) has won the contract to run the office, overseeing IT providers to the health service. KBR is part of Halliburton, the oil services firm formerly run by US vice-president Dick Cheney, which has a $33m contract in the running of the controversial detention centre. Here, KBR will oversee five NHS local service providers. The first of these, covering London, will be chosen by October.&#183;www.kablenet.comMail to goRIM, or Research In Motion, the Canadian company best known for itsBlackBerryhandheld organiser, now wants to make the same kind of facilities available to other devices. It has launched a BlackBerry Connect scheme to provide access to its existing wireless infrastructure and BlackBerry Enterprise Server software, and has started signing up hardware manufacturers and carriers. By the end of the year, "BlackBerry email" should be available on Nokia 6800 mobile phones and other Symbian devices, Microsoft Pocket PCs and Smartphones from HTC.New earDragon Systems led the way in speech recognition until its $600m takeover by rival L&amp;H, which went bust and sold the technology to ScanSoft. Dragon's founder and former chief executive, Jim Baker, set up a new business calledNovauris, or "new ear", which is demonstrating its next-generation system at the Voice World-Europe Conference at Olympia, London, this week. Most of the company's researchers are based in Bishop's Cleeve, Cheltenham, and used to be Dragon Systems' UK R&amp;D team. They also developed the SpeechWorks speech recognition technology used in Jaguar cars. The first Novauris demo shows speaker-independent voice access to a database of 245 million US names and addresses. Baker's aim is to develop "speech recognition technology that can make a significant practical difference to the world".Server launchMicrosoft has finally finishedWindows Server 2003, and released the code for a launch in San Francisco on April 24. More than 5,000 of Microsoft's software developers have been working on the code for at least three years, only taking time out for retraining in "new security-focused development techniques" following Microsoft's belated Trustworthy Computing initiative.While in development, the program was also renamed Windows.Net Server, before being renamed back. There will be seven versions of Server 2003, including the datacentre and enterprise editions for Intel Pentium-compatible and 64-bit Titanium 2 processors. The Windows Small Business Server 2003 edition will not be available until the autumn.Microsoft has been running its own website on Windows Server 2003 since last July, and claims it runs "twice as fast across all workloads" with a 20% reduction in costs. But companies are notoriously slow to upgrade server software, so don't expect a sudden boom in sales.
Ahmar Ahmad has not been outside his home in Beckenham, south London for three weeks. He barely speaks to his brother Amir anymore, just a few words when they see each other in the morning. A year ago, the 30-something brothers, avid PC games players, came across an online fantasy war game called CastleQuest 2. That was when things started to go wrong.Today, the brothers are the top-ranking players in the game and proud of it. But it has cost them. CastleQuest is set in a persistent real-time universe. When you leave, it carries on. So to hold onto their position, the brothers must play the game 24 hours a day, in shifts. Each shift lasts 12 hours. As one gets up, the other goes to bed. They know it's odd. It would be funny if they could only free themselves from it, but they can't. They are addicted."I wake up around 10am and log myself in straight away," Ahmar says. "Then I stay awake playing until 5am. I may be downstairs making some food, having a coffee but I'm online pretty much the whole period."Addictiveness has always been the sign of a great videogame. "Unputdownable! A classic!" scream the reviews. But a natural safety catch has always stopped it getting out of hand - boredom. Gameplay becomes repetitive and games usually get dumped after a few weeks. Today, however, with online fantasy games such as EverQuest and World Of Warcraft, the more you play them, the better they get. These alternate realities offer lush visuals, challenging quests and social interaction 24/7. Boredom is not an issue.Now some people - not just archetypal geeky teens, but professionals, businesspeople, homemakers - are   finding they just can't stop playing these games, even if their careers, their marriages, or perhaps their lives depend on it."EverQuest was a daily and nightly routine for me, and all around me my life was crumbling." says Ron Jaffe, a computer consultant from Florida.EverQuest is the world's biggest online role-playing game. Every night nearly 400,000 paying subscribers with Tolkienesque alter-egos don virtual chain mail armour and leather hosiery, and enter the fantasy realm of Norrath. There, they team up on quests for fabled artefacts, do battle with trolls and dragons, or just hang out and chat with each other. So compelling is the game that players have dubbed it EverCrack.Eight months after he started playing the game, Jaffe had ballooned in weight to 19 stone, his marriage was on the rocks, and he was losing work and clients."I played it mornings, afternoons and evenings," he says. "My wife and I were spending little quality time together. She even said that I was speaking in my sleep about orcs and other game monsters."But he was a level 53 Halfling druid, one of the leaders of the White Wolf Clan, and possessor of a clutch of hard-to-find magic items. "I was well-loved, a hero, and I was able to bury my real life woes while I played," he says.To further increase his status in the game, Jaffe even started buying in-game fantasy items for real-life money. "I ran across this ad on eBay which offered a wide range of items and platinum pieces," he recalls. "I spent over $1000. I felt so ashamed."Luckily, Jaffe found refuge and eventual salvation withOn-Line Gamers Anonymous, one of several online self-help groups that have sprung up to deal with the fallout from electronic entertainment they call heroinware. Its forums are swollen with refugees of various online worlds, all with harrowing stories of runaway gaming habits, lives ruined, friends lost, marriages broken."Love is the power that transforms your life," reads the site's slogan. Its 12-step program is modelled on Alcoholic Anonymous. Those seeking help are counselled by fellow addicts, and encouraged to admit that their lives have become unmanageable due to online gaming. By step three they are expected to "make a decision to turn their will and their lives over to the care of God as we understand Him".This overtly spiritual approach may repulse godless British gamers, but there's no doubt that it has rescued people like Jaffe. As he himself evangelises: "Deleting my characters was invigorating! I was in control of my life and my destiny. With each deletion, I reclaimed my pride and self esteem." After two and a half years of solid EQ addiction, he was able to turn his back on the kingdom of Norrath for good.Some are not so lucky. In the US last year, a 21-year-old man with a dedicated 12-hours-a-day EverQuest habit and a history of mental illness committed suicide minutes after a session. His mother blamed his death on the game. In 2001, a nine-month-old baby boy died in Florida after being left in a cupboard for over 24 hours. His father, who had wanted play EverQuest undisturbed, was recently sentenced to 15 years in prison.In extreme cases, game addiction can push people to the limits of their physical endurance. The most popular action game on the internet is Half-Life: Counter-Strike. Renowned for its compelling fast-paced gameplay, it's a violent 3D shoot-'em-up where up to 32 players enact endless five-minute terrorist v counter-terrorist battles.Last year, a 24-year-old South Korean man collapsed and died after an 86-hour Counter-Strike marathon. Ten days later, 27-year-old Lien Wen-chung went to the toilet after a 32-hour session and didn't come back. He was found with a bleeding nose and foaming at the mouth, and died on his way to the hospital.Counter-Strike addict "Steve" (not his real name), 29, from Hull, is not surprised. He's been trying to quit the game for two years. "The longest I've played non-stop is about 16 hours. I've been to all-night gaming parties where people are just crashed out on the floor, not making any sense."For Steve, the game is like a drug. "You get really into it. The outside world fades. You get pleasure from it. You can't stop playing."The rise in videogame addiction has been noted among psychologists. In a recent study of gaming habits by Dr Mark Griffiths of Nottingham Trent University, nearly a quarter of EverQuest subscribers were found to play over 41 hours a week, with 15% dedicating over 50 hours. Griffiths believes videogame addiction to be a very real phenomenon. Games give an intermittent stream of rewards and give rise to a "partial reinforcement effect" often seen in compulsive gamblers or drug users. The player keeps playing, hoping another reward is just around the corner."These games may provide an alternative reality to the user," he says, "and allow them feelings of immersion and anonymity that may lead to an altered state of consciousness which in itself may be highly psychologically rewarding."As with drugs, children could also be at risk. They can have unparalleled access to technology at home and are particularly vulnerable to online gaming addiction.For games developers, online gaming is a lucrative and growing arm of their industry, potentially worth billions of pounds in the next five years. They are quick to dismiss stories of addiction."I guess our standpoint is the same as all kinds of products - you have to be responsible in using it," said Scott McDaniel, vice president of marketing for Sony Online Entertainment, in a recent interview. "You don't see disclaimers when you get in a car saying 'Don't run over people.' People have to exhibit their own good sense, and if they have kids, they need to pay attention to what they're doing."Clearly not everyone who plays online turns into a EverCrack whore. Former EQ addict Ron Jaffe believes those most vulnerable lack something in their lives and turn to games to fill the void. If your social life is poor, he argues, you may be drawn to the community aspect of online gaming. If you don't feel important, you can become dependent on your status within the game.Ahmar Ahmad agrees. He's honest about what drives his obsession. "I've got this kind of God-status within the system," he chuckles. "They all kind of worship me. Everyone comes to me with their problems, it's bizarre."Mind you," he adds. "There's a lot of people who hate me for it. The most popular target in the game is me."While online games become more popular and widespread, the good news is that our games junkies are now mostly on the wagon. Ron Jaffe has shed loads of weight and is planning to walk the Appalachian trail. Counter-Strike addict Steve hasn't played for three weeks but is taking   each day as it comes. That leaves Ahmar, in his darkened bedroom in Beckenham, still on 12-16 hours a day, patiently waiting for something to save him: "I'm slowly hoping that I'll get bored with it. I think the highest level you can get is 58. Once I hit that I'll probably stop." Probably.&#183;Comments to online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
What prompted Fatal Error's interest in the dotcom boom and bust?It's a great story: the way these young, late-20th-century "heroes" got involved in the growth of these companies and seemed to be making millions before their worlds fell apart! I was intrigued by the emotional strain it put on a lot of them - often they were small groups of friends or relatives joined in these ventures. Obviously I could add a little bit of exaggeration to that pressure - throw in a murder and I was well away!So will the dotcoms rise again?I think the net is clearly part of the future for all of us but I think a business that understands something, be it news, groceries or entertainment, will do it through its own internet activities. So you won't get a generic groceries.com but you will have Tesco.com dominating that side of the net. I don't think there will be many new dotcom businesses that are purely about the internet - the net is a way of doing something; it's not an end in itself.Microsoft - saint or sinner?Definitely a huge sinner! Microsoft has extracted billions of dollars from computer users and instead of using it to encourage innovation it uses it to deaden innovation. Its OS is so flabby that people have always had to use larger computers just to run it. I think Bill Gates has been brilliant at getting into such a position of monopoly and then extracting so much money from it. I think we'd all be much better off if it'd never existed!Gadgets?I was almost embarrassed to mention it but it's a Psion Series 7. The keyboard is excellent and I use it for writing on the move - the only thing that's annoying about it is its compatibility with PCs. I wish Psion had carried on with its PDAs rather than getting involved in Symbian. The next generation of Psions could have been amazing!Michael Ridpath's favouritesFor rugby:www.rfu.tvFor finance:news.ft.com/home/ukFor property speculation:www.christiesgreatestates.comFor the rest:www.google.co.uk
Computers never last as long as we think they should. Disk drives fail, processors overheat, and the capacitors in memory chips slowly fade away. Wintel servers bought in the mid-90s are coming to the end of their natural lives. Unfortunately, they're often still running critical line of business applications, on operating systems that can't handle the latest hardware, can no longer be bought and are no longer supported.So what's the solution? One option is to take advantage of virtual server technologies. Not only do they offer savings by consolidating systems and extending application life cycles, they can also reduce support costs and speed up new system development.With desktop virtual machines anyone can run a second operating system on their PC without rebooting. Now a new generation of more complex virtual servers means that one modern server can host multiple operating systems, running them at the same time - along with the applications that used to run on the separate machines. With virtual servers there is less hardware in the data centre, keeping down costs.Microsoft's purchase of Connectix's Virtual PC technology - along with the development team - will add virtual machine technology to Windows. The original Virtual PC ran Windows inside Apple's Macintosh OS. Virtual Server, now in beta, runs multiple operating systems, including various Windows versions, Linux and OS/2, all at the same time on the latest PC server hardware. Microsoft intends to use Virtual Server to support companies still needing to use older versions of Windows as they migrate to newer technologies.Despite a flurry of recent interest, virtual machines are not really a new technology. They've been at the heart of IBM's mainframes for many years, so it's hardly surprising that IBM engineers have come up with an alternative approach to the virtual server. IBM offers the zSeries mainframe configured to host a set of virtual Linux servers.IBM has ported the Linux version of its WebSphere J2EE platform to its mainframe Linux offering, so it can deliver complex applications on a familiar application server. As mainframes are a considerable investment, IBM offers a virtual server hosting facility, running your applications on IBM's own Linux mainframe server farm. Even your virtual server can be virtual!Commercial virtual servers don't have the market all to themselves. Open source solutions, like the Bochs project, are already hosting Windows NT images on Linux servers, using the X Window environment. Expect support for more operating systems in the future.Virtual servers don't only consolidate legacy systems, they also keep complex applications isolated, while still running them on a single server. It's always been good practice to put different applications on different machines, for high reliability and availability. Virtual servers give the same benefits by keeping each application in a separate operating system image; if anything goes wrong, all an administrator needs to do is restart the appropriate virtual machine, without affecting the rest of the applications and operating system images running on the same hardware.Support staff will find virtual servers helpful too. Instead of having to support multiple-server operating system and driver images, all they need to have is a single base configuration, along with the appropriate operating system images. As these work on any hardware that runs a compatible virtual machine, they can deploy the images as and when they are needed. Rolling out a new server is as easy as copying a file.It's not only existing enterprise applications that benefit from the virtual servers. Deploying operating system images to virtual servers running on developers' PCs speeds up development. Sharing centrally created server images means each developer is working on the same snapshot of the system, without needing expensive test rigs.Used carefully, virtual servers look likely to become an important element of enterprise architectures. With virtual servers, an organisation can move forward, without leaving the past behind.
There was an interesting rush of new products on Tuesday, but the pick of the bunch was probably the iGrill or, to be accurate, theGeorge Foreman USB iGrill. I also liked theMiniMac-- an original Mac emulator running on a Palm. The software download was a nice touch. The most elaborate was probablyThe Honest Thief file-sharingventure, which got written up in The Wall Street Journal, though it had an ulterior motive. No marks for CNet's download site offering ofPro-Virus tools, but if you saw anything better.....
The fourth incarnation of Championship Manager hashit the top of the sales chartin the UK after only a few days, according to Eidos. We've got a very entertaining piece about it in this week's Online, out on Thursday, written by Guardian football writer Paul MacInnes. He, like me, has an addiction to the game. Luckily for me, the Mac version isn't out just yet (a week or two to go) which allows work and social lives to continue uninterrupted, for now...
As we become more dependent on the internet, the literal fabric of our  networked lives, from the websites we depend on, to the emerging wireless infrastructure, to the social tools we use, is getting richer, more meaningful and more tightly woven.Content, applications and communities are more interconnected than ever, and now a new layer of links is emerging on top of the infrastructure we have taken for granted for most of a decade.It is an invisible layer, dedicated to remote control, information sharing and collaboration between computers. It goes by an array of obscure names: RSS, SOAP, XML, UDDI, WSDL.The action has moved away from the first generation of net technologies, such as the web and email, to these new protocols, but this is not change for change's sake. The net is like all the other big human artefacts: it is evolving to support the complexity of our lives and communities. Without these new layers and tools, the net would slowly lose meaning for us.But, as the usefulness and accessibility of the internet grows, its value to us all is necessarily always at risk: from pointless complexity, from the opacity produced by proprietary dead ends, and from old-fashioned corporate and political shortsightedness.Google Hacks is a book about this important new layer of the net, and an inoculation against obscurity and complexity. The book is a tool. It reminds me of  The Whole Earth Catalog, a hippy resource book subtitled "Access to  Tools", and inspired by the legendary Buckminster Fuller.The catalog, first published in 1968, and edited by the now legendary Stewart  Brand, was about understanding the world, having the confidence to take control and making meaningful interventions: hacking real life.The inside cover of my 1971 edition (will whoever I lent the 1968 edition to please return it!) explains that it "functions as an evaluation and access device. With it, the user should know better what is worth getting, and where and how to do the getting". Everything on the following 450 tabloid-sized pages is "useful as a tool".The book's hippy origins are visible everywhere: home made geodesic domes,  sauna heaters and books about home education. But the selection of tools  is enormous and permissive, taking in the earliest small computers, Fortune Magazine, personal aeroplanes in kit form and really useful penknives you could build a house with.The philosophy of the catalog is powerful and still relevant, but the field of human experience has expanded to take in the new reality of cyberspace. We need new tools.Google is the first really good example of the richer networked world we now inhabit. It is so pervasive, useful and flexible that, for many of us, it has become the lens through which we view the whole net.Google's engineers are obviously very clever, but their cleverest act has probably been to open up the inner workings of the system to anyone on the net via what the techies call an API (applications programming interface).The API makes it possible for anyone to write programmes that can talk to Google's systems directly and produce customised results. In some cases, these results are rich enough to resemble standalone applications in their own right. In others, they will just look like fancy search results.Google Hacks is a tool for hacking the new, networked reality. Tara Calishain and Rael
Dornfest show us how to make good use of the things that we find (like the Wombles), how to find out what we need to know and, most important of all, how to build entirely new artefacts using the raw material provided by Google (the software equivalent of those geodesic domes).The book covers applications as rich as 3D visualisations of info-space, and as simple as phone number look-ups. There are tools here that are much too daunting for my non-technical mind, but many that even I could set up.There are exactly 100 hacks: specific, clearly worked examples of ways to take advantage of Google's openness and achieve concrete results. Some projects are useful, some are intriguing and some are just playful.I hope that Google Hacks, and the forest of clever applications built using it, will inspire the owners of the rest of our networked reality - from AOL to Yahoo - to publish their own APIs (amazon.com already does). The net will be a richer place for it.
The convergence party hasn't been cancelled, only postponed.Despite the end of the telecoms, media and television bubble and concerns about a consumer recession, internet penetration has quietly risen, the move from analogue to digital TV has steadily progressed and interactivity has developed, feeding off the low-hanging fruit of premium rate telephone lines and SMS text messaging as consumers vote and play games within interactive TV.In addition, DVD penetration is now approaching 50% of homes in the US, and DVD players are a catalyst for the integration of domestic TV and sound systems - and in future PCs.The telefusion stallion may have lost a shoe but it hasn't gone lame. But the problems we have in the UK are funding, a restrictive legislative environment and content owner caution about the security of and potential cannibalisation from interactive broadband services.On the funding front, companies have been running out of juice. Granada and particularly Carlton have been weakened by pouring &#163;1bn into failed ITV Digital. Cunningly, management decided to change the name from ONdigital four months before its demise, maximising collateral damage.BSkyB - to finance free decoder offers and conversion to digital - had to cut its dividend and built up &#163;1.6bn of debt.Cable is in a far worse state, and still has more debt than many countries in the developing world. Post high-yield bond refinancings, cable is being run on a care and maintenance basis, falling behind BSkyB on innovation - such as personal TV recorder boxes - let alone trying to leapfrog with video on demand. Cable build-out has come to a standstill.Once NTL and Telewest are on a level and stable financial playing field, I believe they should be allowed to merge, so a new national, triple play local loop service can be branded and sold.Meanwhile BT has &#163;13.5bn of net debt, and has sufficiently upset Openworld subscribers on the issue of quality of service that a number banded together to form a protest website. BT has maintained uneconomic wholesale pricing for ADSL, or asymmetric digital subscriber line services, stifling the third party market, which has protected its higher ISDN and leased line pricing.This brings me to legislation. BT has now belatedly reduced its wholesale pricing of ADSL, both for fast internet and video on demand - just as third parties are finding it impossible to raise money to enter the market.Although there has been a recent acceleration, we are way behind countries like Germany and the broadband Elysian fields of Korea, which has 7.8m connections out of a total 14.4m households - a 54% penetration rate.On the digital terrestrial front, the BBC should be playing an active role, in marketing and financially, in driving digital TV and radio. It is interesting to note that the Norwegian public service broadcaster, NRK, is proposing to give away free digital set-top boxes to every home, believing that the saving from cutting off analogue earlier will pay for it.Furthermore, following the passing of the communications bill, Carlton and Granada should be allowed to merge. In any event, you have advertisers such as Unilever and media buyers like Carat and Universal McCann in favour.If it doesn't happen, Carlton in particular has no plan B and would have to substantially reduce its dividend again. Carlton and Granada's management are putting up a united front, but it will be interesting to see what happens after a merger.ITV chairmen are like a rearview mirror - relationships between them can appear to be closer than they actually are.&#183;This is an edited extract from a speech given to the Royal Television Society last night by the former Merrill Lynch media analyst, Neil Blackley, to mark his 'retirement' from the City
I know this for a fact because I asked AvaQuest'sGooglePeople"who is the sexiest woman alive", and it replied: "GooglePeople is somewhat confident that the answer to your question who is the sexiest woman alive is: Hillary Rodham Clinton." I found that a bit of a shock, but you'll find that if you vary the format of the question slightly, you can get a wide range of answers. What swings it in this case is a would-be-humorous Web site headed, coincidentally,Hillary Rodham Clinton is the sexiest woman alive, not to mention a feature about HRC in The Times of London entitledThe sexiest woman alive?AsElvis Costellomight have put it, "They call her Natasha, but she looks like Elsie". Your mileage may vary.
The US military machine is using what an LA Times headline callsTeen Technology. "Microsoft Corp's NetMeeting software and programs from Groove Networks Inc and Appian Corp are part of the military's shift away from massive central computer servers toward more flexible models that let users work on joint projects and share information -- even when they are cut off from high-speed communication links." [free reg req'd]
TheHollywood Stock Exchangewas so popular that it inspiredCelebdaq, and now the blogosphere is getting its own version:BlogShares. It's "a fantasy stock market for weblogs," which are valued by the number of inbound links. If the idea takes off, the BlogShares site should do well....
