Bebo has hired Kate Burns to spearhead its European operation and to deliver on new parent-company AOL's ambitious plans to catch rivals Facebook and MySpace.Burns, who was Google's first employee outside the US and its first UK managing director, is leaving her role as UK managing director of online video website Dailymotionafter just four months. She will join Bebo Europe in the newly created position of vice-president and managing director.Burns, who was previously involved in launching ad network Doubleclick and search engine Altavista in the UK and has also worked at News International, will be responsible for Bebo operations in the UK, Ireland and Poland.She will spearhead an ambitious expansion plan that will see the social networking website launch in Italy, Spain, Germany, France and the Netherlands in the next quarter.Burns will join Bebo on August 4, following the promotion of Joanna Shields, a key figure behind the $850m sale of the company to AOL, to the role of president of AOL's newly formed People Networks and chief executive of Bebo."Kate has a proven record in the UK's digital media industry, having played a key role in its development over the last decade," said Shields. "Her creativity and dynamism make Kate the natural choice for this new role as Bebo looks to further strengthen its position internationally."Shields, wholeft her roleas Google's managing director for partnerships across Europe, Middle East and Africa in January last year to join Bebo, worked with Burns during her 18 months at the search engine giant.Burns joined Google in 2001 and rose to become its managing director for the UK, Ireland and the Benelux countries."Bebo has been at the very centre of the dramatic changes we have witnessed in the media landscape over the past two years," said Burns, who has also worked at Yahoo, Ziff Davis and News International."I am looking forward to becoming part of Bebo's extraordinary management team and to working on one of the most engaged websites in the UK to continue to develop this rapidly growing business."Burns will be based at Bebo's international headquarters in London.AOL, which has Google as a 10% stakeholder,acquired Beboto underpin the growth of its advertising operation Platform A and ramp up the share of online ad revenue.AOL plans for Bebo to be the jewel of its newly created People Networks, a collection of community platforms.The acquisition of Bebo has been seen by some analysts as primarily an international play as AOL's platform A advertising operation is already very strong in the US.Comscore puts the global number of monthly unique users for MySpace and Facebook at more than 110 million each, while Bebo has about 30 million.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Microsoft said yesterday it is willing to re-enter takeover talks with Yahoo, but only if the internet firm is under new management - providing a major boost to the campaign waged by American activist investor Carl Icahn to oust the board.Microsoft's assertion came after Icahn, who has proposed replacing Yahoo's directors with his own choice at next month's annual meeting, sent a letter to Yahoo investors outlining his negotiations with the software group's boss Steve Ballmer. "Steve made it abundantly clear that, due to his experiences with Yahoo during the past several months, he cannot negotiate any transaction with the current board," Icahn wrote.He said that Ballmer had expressed concern at the danger of Yahoo's team mismanaging the company during any takeover period. "However, Steve made it clear to me that if a new board were elected, he would be interested in discussing a major transaction with Yahoo. One thing is clear - Jerry Yang and the current board of Yahoo will not be able to 'botch up' a negotiation with Microsoft again, simply because they will not have the opportunity," Icahn added.Yahoo reacted with fury at this latest twist in the six-month saga. "If Microsoft and Mr Ballmer really want to purchase Yahoo, we again invite them to make a proposal immediately," it said last night. "If Mr Icahn has an actual plan for Yahoo beyond hoping that Microsoft might actually consummate a deal which they have repeatedly walked away from, we would be very interested in hearing it."Yahoo ended all talks with Microsoft last month when it clinched an advertising deal in the US market with Google that is now being investigated by the US department of justice. Officials want to know whether the revenue-sharing deal risks creating an effective monopoly for the two companies which, between them, account for almost three out of four of the world's online searches.Microsoft said yesterday that it would be interested in either a full takeover of Yahoo or a buyout of the company's online search business "with a new board". Neither Microsoft nor Icahn gave any details of the price at which any deal might be done. Yahoo shares plunged after talks with Microsoft were ended and were trading at below $24 each. Microsoft's initial approach was pitched at $31 a share, valuing the business at $44.6bn (£22.4bn).Over recent days Microsoft has held talks with media companies, including Rupert Murdoch's News Corp, which owns MySpace, and AOL owner Time Warner, about taking part in a full scale break-up of Yahoo. According to sources quoted by Reuters last night, News Corp talks ended after it demanded up to $15bn for its assets, while Time Warner said a deal was unlikely to be struck for a merger with AOL before Yahoo's all-important annual meeting on August 1.Yahoo's board is in a weakened state ahead of the meeting, which was moved back a month because of a spate of defections. In the last few weeks, executive vice-president Jeff Weiner and head of research Usama Fayyad have quit.In his letter to Yahoo investors, Icahn said the company is "witnessing a meaningful exodus of talent". He wants to remove the entire board, including chief executive Yang, who co-founded Yahoo on the campus of Stanford University.Icahn made his name with the hostile takeover of the airline TWA in 1986 and has since forced a major restructuring at Motorola. He has proposed himself and Mark Cuban, who made a fortune selling webcasting start-up Broadcast.com to Yahoo in 1999, as new directors. He also proposed former Viacom boss Frank Biondi, and the former head of the New Line Cinema film studios, Robert Shaye."According to publicly available information, Google's income from operations grew 59% per year over the last two years while Yahoo's shrank 21% per year," Icahn said in his letter yesterday."However, none of the above has caused the Yahoo board to hesitate in paying themselves $10,000 per week. It is time for a change."Web weavingMicrosoftadmitted in early February that it had approachedYahoobossJerry Yangwith an offer which at the time valued Yahoo at $31 a share or$44.6bn. Yahoo's board rejected the deal and in early May Microsoft raised its bid to$33.Yang and company co-founderDavid Filoheld out for at least $37.Carl Icahnstarted building a stake with a view to ousting the board. In late May, Microsoft suggested an online advertising tie-up with Yahoo but last month Yang called off all talks and signed a deal for the US market with bitter rivalGoogle.
Just a quick round-up of stories this week as I'm short on time. Just started another two-week stint on the Official PlayStation Magazine (I wrote the features on game AI and Killzone in the latest issue) so I'm squeezing in blogs where I can.Anyway, EA Mobile has announced a few new projects. The company is bringing its ubiquitous Sims brand to iPod, courtesy of The Sims DJ, a sort of rhythm action game which lets you use the click wheel as a turntable. There's also a four-person pass-n-play mode. Meanwhile, C&amp;C Tiberium Wars and Road Rash are coming to mobile phones.Nokia has provided access to its Widsets development tools.Widsetsare a mobile phone version of widgets - Java-based downloadable desktop applications with a huge variety of possible functions, including games of course. Nokia reckons they'll make entertainment apps much more accessible to phone users (around 300 handsets are compatible apparently). You can check out what's availablehere.Disney Mobile is launching a new entry to the getting-quite-crowded-now mobile brain training sector. It's got a pretty good license though - yep, Einstein's Brain Game will feature everyone's favourite theoretical physicist, presenting a series of mini-puzzles. From the press release:The game features 20 brain training exercises which take you on a journey through Einstein's theories of relativity and ideas about the solar system. It features 4 categories - maths, memory, logic and visual coordination, as well as a bonus Sudoku puzzle game, to give the brain a thorough work-out.Albert Einstein, the renowned Nobel Prize-winning physicist is virtually on hand throughout the game to offer advice and comments on your progress - so you can "learn" directly from the great genius himself!The Einstein's Brain Game online community portal will feature a competition that will allow gamers to compete with other players across Europe to determine who has the biggest brain. Further, the portal will feature a free bonus quiz that test the players general trivia knowledge.What next - an Isaac Newton platformer (You can forget double jumps for a start)?And finally, Pocket Gamer has agreat featureon motion-sensing mobile games - iPhone is bagging most of the publicity in this area, of course, but both LG and Sony Ericsson have handsets with Wii-mote-style movement controls. Willthisbe the feature that finally gets more than 5% of phone owners to start downloading games? Yeah sure, why not?
Demand for the new 3G version of the iPhone has outstripped supply, and O2, Apple's exclusive UK mobile phone partner, says it has run out of stock for customers wanting to pre-order the device before it goes on general release on Friday.The new phone was made available for pre-order on the O2 website at 8am yesterday morning. The site crashed within the first hour due to the volume of traffic, and by Monday afternoon O2 said it had run out of pre-order stock.Carphone Warehouse, the only independent retailer in the UK to stock the phone, says it still has stocks available to new O2 customers who wish to pre-order it. Existing customers wanting to upgrade an O2 handset to a new iPhone will have to wait until Friday.Some of O2's rivals are speculating that the company limited supply in order to add to the hype of Friday's launch.The company used similar tactics for the arrival of high-profile music acts such as Prince, who performed at London's O2 arena. In the past, the venue has released tickets on a show-by-show basis, even when an artist had signed up for many nights.However O2 maintains that half the phones it ordered were made available for pre-order customers. It has given no details of how many phones it expects to stock in total.It claims more than 200,000 people registered an interest in the 3G iPhone; 35,000 people registered interest in the previous version of the phone before it went on sale.Carphone Warehouse reckons interest in the new phone is 10 times greater than it was for the original version, launched last November.The 8GB version of the new phone — which can store about 2,000 songs — is free for customers willing to sign up for a year and a half at £45 per month, while the larger capacity 16GB phone is free for anyone on a £75-per-month deal.
Around 637,000 laptops are lost each year at US airports -- an astonishing number -- according to a survey by the Ponemon Institute reported by theIDG News Service. It says:Close to 10,278 laptops are reported lost every week at 36 of the largest US airports, and 65% of those laptops are not reclaimed, the survey said. Around 2,000 laptops are recorded lost at the medium-sized airports, and 69% are not reclaimed.Laptops are most often lost at security checkpoints. Why the found ones are not reclaimed is another issue, because the security implications are frightening.The survey was paid for by Dell, which today launched a security service that uses technologies such as GPS tracking to recover lost laptops.The US Federal Trade Commission has a leaflet, Keeping Laptops From Getting Lost or Stolen (PDF). It says: "Treat your laptop like cash." It also has a website providing practical tips atOnGuardOnline.gov.Covering your laptop with large labels, stickers, stencils etc is a good way to make it stand out and make it less nickable.Anyone had a laptop nicked at an airport? Did you get it back?
When the web was new, a lot of people kept lists of the sites they wanted to remember, and these were the forerunners of terse "web logs" such as Jorn Barger's Robot Wisdom. Eventually, the idea evolved into blogs, firing a revolution in personal publishing that has swept the world. But for people who still hanker after the old way of doing things, there are now "micro-blogging" sites, such asTumblr.Many people find blogging takes too much time and effort. However, it can still be useful to have a place to post links, comments, quotations, photos and drawings that you want to share with friends. And while you can do that on Blogger, it's simpler to use Tumblr.Times have changed since web logs were plain text, so Tumblr offers another six menu options: photo, quote, link, chat, audio and video. If you click on, for example, the video icon, that brings up a template with space for a link (you can upload a video from your hard drive, or paste in a link to a video site such as YouTube) and a brief caption. That's it.It takes less than a minute to sign up at Tumblr: you just have to enter a screen name, an email address, and a password. After that, it can take less than a minute to make a post, if you have something in mind. It's about as easy as online publishing gets.Of course, most people will want to go further. Clicking Tumblr's customise button lets you change to a different page design or "theme". There are some simple word-processing options if you want to change the look of the text. It's also possible to link in to external applications, or to add your tumblelog to an external web page.As with blogging systems, Tumblr also provides a bookmarklet so you can post from your web browser, and you can also post from a mobile phone.But Tumblr also has another interesting feature, called following. You can decide to follow any other tumblelogs you like, and after that, their posts will appear on your dashboard screen inside Tumblr. Your friends or fans can also choose to follow you, to see what you are doing, and can even "reblog" your posts. You can attract a fan base, or create a private Tumblr group and invite only friends or colleagues.If you don't have anyone to follow, you can always add David's tumblelog by clicking the Follow button atdavidslog.comor by pasting in the address. You wouldn't know this just from signing up, but 21-year-old David Karp founded Tumblr last year. It's not even his first startup, so he looks like someone to watch.If you're not sure whether tumblelogging is for you, there's an alphabetical list of tumblelogs atThe Tumblelist. Try a few. Be inspired.Today, Tumblr occupies an interesting niche somewhere between Facebook's Wall and full-spec blogging systems. But it has the potential to become very big indeed.
O2 seems not to have realised quite how many people would have the werewithal (and determination) to upgrade from the old iPhone to the new 3G version: we've been seeing reports on Twitter from people all morning saying that they can't get into theupgrade website- toquoteiPhone app developer Fraser Speirs,I can't order my iPhone upgrade because O2 hired the people that Twitter rejected to run their website.Ed Parson, chief map honcho at Google UK, wants one for all that GPS-ness but calls it a"useless website", while Ian Betteridgenotesthat "every attempt to order fails".Then the site came back up - and seems already to have run out of 16-gigabyte models."BORKED!"groans Mark Simpkins.And finally our own Jemima Kissnotesthat her brother calls it the Chakademus and Pliers upgrade route: "Tease me, Tease me, Tease me baby, till I lose control..."And that's before we get around to all thecommentersonthis blog. Go on, share the anger. It'll help. Well, not much, but it's fun.Update:follow the Twitter fun of it all on Summize. O2 is not getting what you would call a whole lotta love (to continue the musical theme..)Update:2.45pm: Ed Parsonssaysthey're now out of stock and asks "Did anybody actually buy one?" Well, did ya?
Windows SteadyStateis a free program that Microsoft launched a year ago to provide a simple way to protect shared XP and Vista computers in schools, libraries, Internet cafes, etc. Of course, you could also use it to protect your PC from small children and visitors, or whatever. It lets you restrict access to many Windows features, and protect the hard drive. You can, for example, have the PC (a) remove all changes when it's restarted; (b) retain changes temporarily until a specified date; or (c) retain all changes permanently.It's great for its intended purpose, because a school or cybercafe can restore all its PCs to its standard configuration every day just by rebooting them. It's potentially dangerous for home users because they can inadvertently lose documents they've created, photos they've uploaded, and files they have downloaded.However, the Lifehacker blog has essentially put the ball in play withKid-Proof Your PC with SteadyState, which will make the program much more widely known. If you've used it, what do you think of it? If not, are you tempted to try it?There are, of course, other ways to "sandbox" a particular program, such asSandboxie. Also, the program you are most likely to want to sandbox is Internet Explorer, and IE7 running in Windows Vista already has sandboxing features built in.
Tim O'Reilly points out a tidbit I'd like to file under "WTF?". Doug Field, who is currently the chief technology officer forSegwayis leaving the company...to join Appleas a vice president of product design.According to a post on the Segwayforum:Doug has been the driving force in making the Segway what it is today and will be sorely missed at the company. However, with every change comes good and bad. So while it's bad the rich history and experience of Doug is leaving, it's good in that perhaps the team will get a fresh perspective into possible engineering solutions for future versions of the Segway (or Segway-like applications).It's easy to laugh at Segway - particularly those of us who remember "Project Ginger" (as it was known) and the hyped build-up during which we were promised a world-changing technology that would revolutionise pretty much everything.These days Segway's uses seem largely limited to tour groups.I don't have a clue what products in Apple's business Field might be working on - and frankly it could be anything from accelerometers to spaceships - but I do seem to remember that Steve Jobs was a big fan of the company. And, of course, Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak is an ardent Segway user (I remember him telling me how angry he was that Segways were illegal on British streets).Just for fun, here's a picture of Woz (on the left) playing Segway polo.Photograph byRobotSkirt, used under CC license
Some time this month an intercontinental ballistic missile will blast off from its silo from beneath the ground in deepest Kazakhstan. It will not, however, be carrying the nuclear warhead it was designed to deliver. Instead the payload will include five small satellites designed and built amid the neatly clipped lawns and ornamental lakes of the University of Surrey, almost within the shadow of Guildford cathedral.The satellites are each the size of a normal fridge. Once they break away from the ex-Soviet rocket the five will form a constellation but their purpose is far from astrophysical. When they swing into action they will beam back pictures of the Earth - capable of collecting, among other things, evidence of agricultural fraud, illegal oil dumping, the impact of natural disasters and likely deposits of minerals.They are the latest in a series of satellites of increasing sophistication which have been built by Surrey Satellite Technology Ltd, until recently part of Surrey University and the brainchild of a team led by the company's chief executive, Professor Sir Martin Sweeting.The company's origins lie in the mid-1970s, a period preceded by the US Apollo programme and Arthur C Clarke's 2001. Sweeting, at that time working on his PhD, was interested in communications. Fellow radio enthusiasts were building equipment to listen in to Russian and US weather satellites.Sweeting recalls wanting to join in. "I wanted to get into space. I did not particularly want to go to the US with Nasa, ESA [the European Space Agency] was only just getting going and the British space programme was faltering." Sweeting and a tiny group decided the answer was to build their own satellite. At the time satellites were normally the size of a double decker bus which meant they were hardly suitable for building in the garage and launching from the back lawn.Help, however, was at hand as electronics - from computers to consumer gadgets - were getting that shrinking feeling. "It was just at the time technology allowed us to scale down," according to Sweeting.Size, or rather the lack of it, was to become SSTL's trade mark. Its satellites would be smaller, cheaper and quicker to build.Satellite on a chipAccording to SSTL, a large satellite might weigh more than 1,000kg, cost $500m and take years to develop. One of its micro-satellites, by comparison, would weigh 100kg, cost $10m and take 18 months to put together.The drive to get ever smaller continues. More than a decade ago work started on developing a satellite the size of a football. That looks positively Brobdingnagian compared with the coffee mug-sized affairs being worked on by the university's satellites centre - a close ally of SSTL - though the holy grail is a satellite on a chip.Today, SSTL's client base includes the Ministry of Defence, the European Space Agency and a number of governments in Africa and Asia. Back then, however, the world at large was not much impressed by the Sweeting vision. "This was in 1978-79. People thought we were pretty crazy. They said it would not be possible and even if it was it wouldn't be useful. And they were the polite ones."Sweeting nevertheless decided he would try to build his satellite and, if it didn't work, he could follow the advice most commonly proffered and get a proper job later. "I wanted to do it because I was interested not because I saw it as a business." That might appear a cavalier approach from someone whose professional life was already firmly rooted in academia though about to branch out into business, but not, perhaps, from someone whose father was a poet and his mother an artist.Sweeting and his team - four full-timers, eight part-timers, and lots of helpers - did manage to beg or borrow the funds and the equipment to built their first satellite. More to the point, they somehow managed to persuade Nasa that their tiddler could piggyback on an American launch vehicle. Apparently it was classed as ballast. So, in 1981 UoSat-1 went into orbit.Pulled plugWhether there would be a second was more problematical. The then prime minister, Margaret Thatcher, had pulled the plug on funding for Britain's space programme, which meant that there was little chance of public money for a new venture. Sweeting recalls going for a prestige job, being offered the post and then turning it down to pursue his dream of becoming an urbane spaceman. The main factor was again the Americans. Nasa came along and offered another launch slot. But this time it wanted money - &pound;10,000. One small snip for Nasa but a giant step for Sweeting and Surrey.Nevertheless, they went ahead. The company was set up with four people and &pound;100. "I borrowed my share, I think," says Sweeting. The university also gave its backing but Sweeting acknowledges there was an element of "cottage industry" about it. The US had set a tight deadline for the British to come up with a new satellite. "We worked all the hours there were, we begged and borrowed. The first clean room came from B&amp;Q; wood, polythene sheeting and a vacuum cleaner. It made a cleanish room."There were other elements of Heath Robinson, as Sweeting's long-standing collaborator Dr Craig Underwood recalls. One early satellite had parts taken from a children's toy called Speak and Spell. Always the pressure was to keep down the size, to keep down weight and to keep down costs. The university helped with funds in exchange for a very substantial stake, which has varied over the years between around 85% and 95%. The company, too, has retained very close links with the university's Space Centre, enabling both to benefit from the synergies between academia and the commercial world. The fact that Sweeting is chief executive of the former and a director of the latter has clearly not hindered the maintenance of close links.Profits takenThe university recently decided to sell out to Astrium, the space arm of EADS, one of Europe's premier defence contractors as well as the owner of planemaker Airbus.Sweeting is happy with the deal. It is time, he says, for the university to take the profits on its investment. "Over the last four or five years we have been growing at 20% year on year. It has got to the stage where this is a &pound;40m-a-year turnover company. It is quite clear the university does not have the financial resources to allow us to grow and should be putting the money back into its educational activities. It was a question of finding the right time and the right partner."Nevertheless, Sweeting is adamant the close links between SSTL and the Space Centre will remain and says Astrium is encouraging the company to pursue "business as usual" and indeed is happy to see SSTL compete with other parts of the parent's space business.But should Britain become involved in the blue riband of space travel, manned flight?"We are a small country and we don't have the resources to make a significant impact," Sweeting says. However, he insists that, while the UK may not be able to finance its own independent manned programme, it should seek to get involved with those who are pressing ahead."You don't have to have your own manned programme. You can contribute through infrastructure projects." SSTL, for example, is currently working on two projects in relation to future moon exploration. The key is to ensure that Britain "has a seat at the table".Cosmic numbers$10mThe cost, according to SSTL, of manufacturing a micro-satellite1981The year that Nasa launched Sweeting's first satellite, the U0Sat-1&pound;100The initial investment made by Sweeting and three colleagues&pound;40mThe annual turnover for SSTL - a 20% rise year on year
The news that people have already started queuing for Apple's 3G iPhone is likely to prompt thoughts about how much more stupid even Apple fanboys can get. But the people already queuing in New York have ulterior motives. According to a Fortune report, they'reTheWhoFarm: "a newly minted publicity-seeking environmental collective with an agrico-political mission: to persuade the 44th President of the US ... to transform the White House's 17-acre lawn into an organic farm."They also want to set a new Guinness World Record for "longest time waiting in line to buy something".While "Waiting for Applesin the Big Apple," they'll be eating apples and composting their food scraps. "And most importantly, we will talk to whoever happens to stop by about local organic farming as a critical element to sustainable healthy living, food security, youth education, and climate change mitigation."Engadgethas photos and avideo.Still, it's great that Americans can turn buying a locked-down proprietary product -- coming soon at a new higher price, with enforced in-store activation -- into a form of protest. That's the Steve Jobs strategy in a nutshell.
I'm atOpen Tech 2008, an "informal, low cost one-day conference on technology, society and low-carbon living, featuring Open Source ways of working and technologies". One debate I attended, earlier, entitled 'Power to the people - one year on from the Power of Information Report' was very interesting, detailing how the British public gain access to data.Following on from this paper'sFree Our Data campaign, launched in 2006, and which advocates British taxpayers' data being made available to them on request, alongside pressure from Ed Mayo,Tom Steinberg, MPTom Watson,MySociety,TheyWorkForYouand others, thePower of Information Report, published in June 2007, finally concluded that the Government would make a pledge to "meet rising aspirations of modern communications practice and improve engagement with citizens through social media".Has the report been a success then? A few points which the panelRichard Allan,William PerrinandTom Loosemorehighlighted, were: the government have realised that transparency in access to public information is both necessary and unavoidable; civil servants are now - as of last month -finally allowed to participate in online media; and because MPs are regularly linking to sites like TheyWorkForYou as a way to highlight what issues they are active on, this shows a small step forward for government openness. Also, as a result of this report, a variety of public data has recently been made available online:*Neighbourhood Statistics API from the Office of National Statisticshave opened up data including: 2001Census, Access to Services, Community wellbeing/Social Environment, Crime and Safety, Economic Deprivation, Education, Skills and Training, Health and care, Housing, Indicators, Indices of Deprivation, People and Society, Physical Environment, and Work Deprivation.*Health care services and information from the NHSare giving people the chance to look at: Information about health care service providers, and "live well" health information from the NHS.* There are nownotices from the London Gazetteavailable to view: all notices published in the London Gazette, the Government's Official Journal and newspaper of record, in XML from February 2007 to May 2008. Notices types covered include State, Parliament, Ecclesiastical, Public Finance, Transport, Planning, Health, Environment, Water, Agriculture &amp; Fisheries, Energy, Post &amp; Telecom, Competition, Corporate Insolvency, Companies &amp; Financial Regulations, Partnerships, and Societies Regulation.The panel then announced that on theOffice of Public Sector Informationwebsite, there is now an "unlocking" service, where, if you are having difficulty obtaining public sector data, you can ask the civil servants who run the site, to apply on your behalf and have it made available.Show Us a Better Waywhich was set up by Tom Watson and Tom Loosemore is also a government-run site, but which has a competition - with a £20,000 prize - for people to suggest ideas for "new products that could improve the way public information is communicated" and are offering, too.ThePower of Information Wikiwas also highlighted as being a useful tool for people to utilise: a sort of one-stop-shop for accessing public data.The session concluded was that there is still a struggle between how information becomes available and licensed for open use and how the public will be able to obtain it. The challenge, then, was to not let up on demanding the data was made available, whilst also building simple architecture that allows easy access to it.
The finish atL'Alpe d'HuezTheTour de France, one of the world's greatest sporting events, started today, and Google is providing a new way to see the route, viaStreet View. Google's Lat Long blogsays:With this launch, you can now follow the race through each of the 21 stages with just a click of a mouse and enjoy a perspective similar to what your favorite cyclists see as they wind through France's majestic mountains, vivacious cities, and tranquil countryside.It also shows off new Google features such as ground-filling, face blurring, and number-plate blurring.
Astonishing how things can pass one by. There was I thinking that Black Label is a whisky when in fact it's a series of phones. The new LG "Secret" KF750 (free on contract, dependent on tariff:lgmobile.com, 0870 873 5454) is one of a line of LG mobiles dubbed Black Label, previously featuring the "Chocolate" and the "Shine". Ah yes, chocolate. Another bell going off there ... is it Ghirardelli's Black Label chocolate sauce, or just Black Magic misremembered?Something semiotic is going down, in any case. More or less everything about the Secret is sleek, black and sexy. Unpacking it, you feel as if you're engaging in a hotel-room tryst with a mysterious, elegantly dressed stranger. The thing is so erotically charged, it should have been called the LG Secrete. Marketing job done, then? Well, not quite.The comparators bear examination. What a fine nip is Johnny Walker Black Label – acclaimed masterpiece of blending, favourite of Winston Churchill, "at once powerful, intense and unassailably elegant" as the company's literature puts it.Experts agree. "Very few malts can match this for complexity," says Jim Murray, author of Classic Blended Scotch (1999). "This is the Savoy, the Everest, of deluxe whiskies."Ghirardelli products, meanwhile, deliver "moments of timeless pleasure", being crafted to achieve "the perfect chocolate intensity". Its website shows a woman in the throes of chocolate ecstasy: such open-mouthed, shut-eyed rapture not seen since Bernini's statue of St Theresa.The commercial language of the LG Secret borrows from chocolate, whisky and luxury goods rhetoric in general: "Boasting style that lasts, the LG Secret has been specifically developed to satisfy the refined tastes of trendsetters who desire a sophisticatedly designed, yet durable handset. Following the success of its predecessors... this third model from the LG Black Label Series is as feature rich as it is stylish."Like the pleasure induced by Ghirardelli chocolate, the Secret's features are presented as timeless: a carbon fibre and tempered glass casing ("timeless style"); a five megapixel camera and the ability to take video at 120 frames a second ("timeless memories"); multimedia functions including music, photos, games, documents and FM radio ("timeless entertainment"). Alas, there is no eBook reader function, with which time-exempt users might catch up on Latin proverbs. Like memento mori, say, or carpe diem.The LG Secret has many top specifications. But its principal innovation – the combination of a slide-out keypad with a glass touchpad – simply does not work very well. The touchpad is a sort of halogen hob (between the screen proper and the keypad), rather than a full, iPhone-style touchscreen. It seems like intermediate technology to me. This is confirmed by the constant need to use an old-fashioned metal return/action button that rises like Uluru out of the glass.The maker of the Secret is Korean-based LG Electronics which, according to its representative, has recently overtaken Sony Ericsson as the fourth biggest handset manufacturer in the world. I am sure they're all super fellows down at LG HQ (they sponsor Fulham FC), but others are not yet convinced. Technology siteunwiredview.comhas accused another LG phone on the horizon, the LG Dare, of being an "iPhone knock-off". Who'll dare say that when BlackBerry's touchscreen device, the BlackBerry Thunder, comes out?I couldn't possibly comment on any of this, but another semiotic bell has just tinkled. It's Carling Black Label, of course, now reduced to plain Carling for snappier cross-bar ordering. LG should be careful with whom it mixes: when Carling Black Label was first sold in Britain in 1954 (by the inestimable Carling Kuntz Ltd) and prior to that in North America, the Black Label signalled not deluxe but economy.&#183;Stephen Fry returns later this month.
I recently bought a TomTom satnav that claimed to be compatible with Apples. In reality, it's limited: I had a total crash, and the company's advice is to find someone with a PC to correct the problem. Do you know of any satnav systems that are totally compatible with Apple Macs?Many people have found they are unable to update satnav units or fix bugs because they aren't truly Mac-friendly. A year or so ago, there would have been little option but to suck it up, but you are in luck: Garmin has bought up a small company called MotionBased, which makes Apple-compatible systems - go togarmin.com/macosxfor more details.I have a pre-Scart TV that I'd like to connect to a Freeview box. Is there any way of linking old and new?Older sets don't have the same connectors as new ones, but there are several easy fixes. You could buy a Freeview receiver with an in-built aerial output -Switchhelp.co.ukrecommends the &pound;39.99 TVonics MFR 200. Or you could run your Freeview through another box that has an older aerial connector, such as a video recorder. If all that fails, buy an RF modulator - this will convert one signal to another - for around &pound;25 from any high street electronics shop.
Ford Kuga, Ford Kuga, sounds familiar ... Got it! Sounds a bit like Ford Cougar. Phonetically identical, in fact. That's not very imaginative; they couldn't think of a new name for their new car, so they just took an old name, of a car they used to make, and spelled it differently. What next? The Kapree? The Ford Korteena? I preferred it in the olden days when Ford just named their cars after bad magazines for chaps: Escort, Fiesta — a car that still exists, come to think of it — so why couldn't they just carry on? Ford Penthouse, Ford Asian Babes...But they didn't, and this is the Kuga, and there's nothing that can be done about it. Anyway, it's a 4x4 (Ford Big Ones?), so that's a big boo to begin with. Did no one tell them that it is no longer socially acceptable to drive a 4x4 unless you live on a Welsh hill farm? I give them the finger (4x4s, not the Welsh), which is, after all, what they are doing to our dear planet. In order to avoid hypocrisy, I had to adjust the rearview and wing mirrors, and give myself the finger throughout my test drive. Got a few funny looks.Ford would argue that the Kuga isn't totally sticking its finger up at the planet. At the moment it's available only with a two-litre turbo diesel engine, does around 44 miles to the gallon and pumps out 169g per kilometre — not brilliant, but better than other 4x4s. But what's the point of that? People will still think you're evil, they won't let you out, and they'll give you the finger. I will, anyway. It's like walking around with a sign saying "paedo" round your neck, when you're not one at all. Or only slightly a paedo.It's quite pleasant inside. My "Titanium" model has a bit of leather round the place, you can do clever things with the seats and I managed to switch on the radio simply by shouting "radio" in the direction of the dashboard (cars are becoming more like dogs, have you noticed?).To drive, the Kuga is perfectly nice. It certainly isn't exciting, but modern diesels have a bit more poke then they used to. It's crisper round the corners (hey, I'm getting into this motoring journalism!) than other 4x4s. Because I'm a proper motoring journalist (actually, because Simon the photographer asked me to), I decided to test out its off-road capabilities by driving it on to a Sussex beach. The shingle was softer than we'd anticipated, but we just made it up and down a shingly hill, and then drove it through some big puddles to celebrate. Not that it matters a jot how it behaves off-road, because none of them will ever go there.Which brings me back to my main point about this car: what, exactly, is its point? Why not get a Ford Focus with the same engine instead? You'll be going along the road a few inches lower down, but that means it's even more crisp round the corners. You will also be richer — not just because you'll have spent less on the car itself, but also because you'll be filling up less often and paying &pound;50 less for road tax. You'll be a little less ungreen, and you'll get to wherever you're going quicker, not just because the same engine will make a lighter car go quicker, but because people might let you out. And, obviously, you won't get the finger wherever you go, which is always nice, especially if there are children in the car with you.Price£22,495Top speed112mphAcceleration0-60 in 10.7 secondsAverage consumption44.1mpgCO2 emissions169g/kmEco rating5/10At the wheelGillian TaylforthBound forBackcountry. Not.In a wordWhy?
MondayBlizzard interviewMobile MondayTuesdayRegulating the industry: Byron falloutTop Gun lands on Guitar HeroDiablo 3 interviewFlipping out with MochiAdsWednesdaySometimes old SNES titles come backThursdayDiablo 2 saved my PS3Princess Bride InteractiveBest of ChatterboxFridayXbox 360 US price and PS3 firmware update - both downA musical notePS3 Dualshock controller launches
Although there are lots of sources of technology product news, there isn't one that brings them all together. Or at least, there hasn't been. Now there'sTech NewsJunk. This pulls together news streams from Gizmodo and Engadget, ReadWriteWeb, TechCrunch and a few others into a fast-loading text stream, skipping the round-cornered prettification that would be obligatory for a Silicon Valley Web 2.0 site. And if you're in catch-up mode, the calendar provides access to news from earlier dates.That's about it, except for the Counts link at the top. This takes you to a list of the 18 most popular stories by the number of outgoing clicks. At the time of writing, Lifehacker's Five Best Windows Maintenence Tools has the most hits (71 clicks) in about 5 hours. (It's CCleaner. Who knew?) Anyway, that explains the # numbers on the main page....If you don't want to visit the site, you can subscribe to its RSS feed, or friend it on FriendFeed, or friend John Newsjunk on Facebook.Tech NewsJunk is a subsite ofhttp://newsjunk.com/, which has been providing the same sort of thing for "political news junkies" since about May 25.Ultimately NewsJunk is another "river of news". And as I mentioned in acolumn in 2006, Winer says that, as a pioneer of RSS, he's been doing "river of news" aggregators since 1999.
There's a meme going round that I think we need to stamp on, quick, because I know you won't give this piece much of your time. The reason for that is not because the internet is making you stupid, but because this piece will only appear on screens (unless you print it out onto paper, you environmental villain).The idea that "the internet is making me stupid" has gained some traction in recent weeks. Nick Carr kicked it off with an article in The Atlantic magazine called "Is Google Making Us Stupid?" in which, contrary to longstanding requirements of headlines that ask questions, the answer was not "No, next!" but "Perhaps, yes".His line — roughly — is that access to all this information, and the tendency to leap around as we consume information in little chunks, means that we're becoming unfamiliar with mastering long, complex arguments, and give up reading after a few screens of HTML.Otherschimedin, saying that they, too, found it hard to concentrate on things.Well, sure, we have a lot more distractions these days. There's always the computer, and your mobile, so a tweet or a quick check on your Scrabulous game on Facebook is never far away. We're easily distracted, though I suspect that's just part of how we're built as humans. Nobody criticises birds for being prone to fly away when we approach them; it's a defense mechanism against predators. Humans, too, will flit around, given the chance, just in case we find something that's fabulously useful to us.But I think the root cause of all this handwringing is much closer to home than Google. It's the screens. Reading on a screen is tiring. You read slower on a screen. Add in a non-optimal font (sans serif, without the little marks you find at the ends of letters, works best on screen because it's easier for the computer to draw) and you have a recipe for slow reading.It's interesting to go back and see what Jakob Nielsen, the usability expert, wassaying about this10 years ago: "Low-resolution monitors (including all computer screens until now) have poor readability: people read about 25% slower from computer screens than from printed paper. Experimental 300dpi displays (costing $30,000) have been measured to have the same reading speed as print, so we will get better screens in the future. People will simply not read long texts at a reduced reading speed, so unless they have much better screens, electronic books will have a problem."He added: "Even when e-books gain the same reading speed as print, they will still be a bad idea. Electronic text should not mimic the old medium and its linear ways. Page turning remains a bad interface, even when it can be done more conveniently than by clicking the mouse on a "next page" button. It is an insufficient goal to make computerized text as fast as print: we need to improve on the past, not simply match it."The basic problem is that the book is too strong a metaphor: it tends to lead designers and writers astray. Electronic text should be based on interaction, hypertext linking, navigation, search, and connections to online services and continuous updates."(Interestingly, he said the two ideas that would work were print-on-demand, and downloadable audio. Have you subscribed toTech Weekly?)So this 25% slower figure: is it true? Yes. Other studies bear it out:this one in 1998found that higher-resolution screens mean you read more accurately, though still not as fast as print; another more recent one at Manchester University (PDForGoogle HTML cache) found reading on paper 10-30% faster.There's another thing about paper. You're not tempted to go and check your email. I find I can read 5,000-word pieces in theNew Yorker magazine(one of the last refuges of really long, well-written pieces, along with theLondon Review of Books) as long as they're on paper. On screen, I haven't a hope: they're about 10 screens long, and one does simply get tired of having to click through while retaining everything you've read. And there's always the distraction of following a link that you won't have in print.Computer screens, meanwhile, are still a long way from mimicking the quality — in terms of dots per inch — of paper. Jeff Atwood of Coding Horrordid an interesting comparisonat the end of 2006 to show how far we haven't come, comparing commercial printing (about 2,400 dots per inch, or dpi) with a good, cheap printer will give you between 600 and 1,200dpi.A typical computer display, by contrast, is between 72 and 100dpi (in some cases up to 150dpi — though often the screen is then very small, so the letters of words become hard to read. (There are other differences, which is that the screen has luminance, where the paper reflects light. This, as you already know, is why you can read a computer screen at night.) Atwood's conclusion: "We have a long, long way to go before computer displays can get anywhere near printer resolutions."The only niggling question I have is whether anyone has investigated reading speeds for the Amazon Kindle, which has low luminance and a167dpi screen. That's good, but it's still a long, long way from paper. (I can't find any studies about reading speeds on it; perhaps it's too early.)OK, you've read to the end. You know now that the internet isn't making us stupid; it's just making us read slower. Go on, go and check your email. You've earned it.
Christian Heilmann, a developer at Yahoo who has worked in Munich, San Francisco, Mumbai and London, gives his tips on HTML and CSS structuring, Java testing and use of Yahoo's almost-open-source libraries
Sony's newDualshock controllerfor PS3 launches in Europe today. The controller finally brings vibration - left out of the original PS3 pads for legal rather than design reasons - back to the Playstation. Rumble is subtly effective, especially on racing games, and is one of those features that you tend to miss when not there. So today's release has got to be good news for PS3 owners right? Not quite. The main problem is the price - the controller costs 40 quid. That's around 10 more than the original Sixaxis PS3 controller and the 360's pad.Reviewssuggest the new controller is fine, but is it worth 40 pounds? Heck, is any pad? Any PS3 owners here planning to get one?
I haven't had any communication fromiPhoneUnlockUK-the website which falsely claimed that the Guardian had recommended its software- but it seems they've been reading us, regardless.When I went to have a look at their website this morning I noticed that the wording has changed on the site. Instead of saying that the Guardian, Which? and ITV had given the site a recommendation, it now says that it has "been recently been featured in articles by Which!, The Guardian and ITV News" (sic).We call that "invisible mending" here.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Inspired by this morning'sDesert Island Discsfrom graphic artistPosy Simmonds, I put Hadyn intomy Last.fmsearch box and out popped notJoseph Haydn, the father of the symphony, butHadyn, the 'videogame remixer who helped spearhead Project Chaos', the Sonic 3 &amp; Knuckles remix project. Gosh, that was a surprise.In other gaming music news, the UK has sadly missed out on its lastVideo Games Liveshow for this year, but if you're Europe-mobile you can still catch the greatest hits of the video game music scene played live in Leipzig, Germany at the games convention on 20th August.Happy Friday everyone.
What's your favourite piece of technology?That would definitely be my MacBook, because it's changed my life. I was a PC user before, but now I couldn't live without a Mac.How has it improved your life?It's my companion – I tour so much that it's my lifeline to friends and family.When was the last time you used it, and what for?About five minutes ago, when I was making some amendments to a concert program that I'm performing soon.What additional features would you add if you could?I would definitely add a mirror compact on it so I could put my makeup on in front of it before going on stage, because I always have my Mac on my dressing table wherever I am.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Absolutely not, no. My own Mac may be, because it gets so knocked about, but no, they are amazing machines and they are only getting better.What one tip would you give to non-MacBook users?Go and buy one now, because they're cheap and they're absolutely fantastic on all levels. It's so much easier than a PC, and they look nicer as well.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?A luddite, I'm afraid. I'm getting better, but I'm not naturally hugely excited by technology. That's probably because I never have the time to read the instructions, so I end up getting terribly frustrated.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?It would probably be my Audi GT, which I only bought recently and am permanently scared of crashing.Mac or PC?You already know the answer to that!What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?At the moment I'm really into Donny Hathaway, and it's a track called I Love You More Than You'll Ever Know. It's just got the most amazing vibe.Will robots rule the world?Absolutely not. I think the world would definitely be a poorer place for it.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I've got two – probably a brand new MacBook that's already programmed with all my information on it; or, if I'm being really greedy, the new Alfa Romeo 8C in bright red, because it's rather lovely.Natasha Marsh's self-titled new album is out now
A couple of quicknextcurrent-gen stories to catch up with. First, Microsoft isreportedlyclose to slashing $50 from the price of the 20GB Xbox 360, bringing it down to the $299 level - a similar price point to the Xbox 360 Arcade package in the UK.Price cuts are always a good way to build market share, but in Japan, you're better off just releasing a game with giant robots in it. The release ofMobile Suit Gundam: Operation: Troytwo weeks ago, saw sales of the hardwaredoublein this traditionally difficult market. Worldwide sales for Xbox 360 stand at around the 19-20m mark.Meanwhile on PS3, the recently released Firmware update 2.40 which adds in-game XMB and a newAchievementTrophy system has been pulled from its servers after reports that the download has been bricking a small number of machines. The crash happens only during the download process, so anyone who's installed it shouldn't have any problems.So what do you think of Trophies? (There's a walkthough videohere) The system is ostensibly more advanced that the Xbox system as it provides four levels of achievement - Platinum, Gold, Silver and Bronze - as well as adding detailed stats and info on your achievements to your profile. You can also access all of a game's Trophy achievements by accessing its Trophy data on the XMB menu, so you know from the outset what sorts of things you need to do to earn your tin cups - with Xbox 360 games, you often don't find out what the achievements are, or what they're worth, until you've unlocked them.However, some sites have been rather over-stating the differences between the two achievement systems. Referring to the way in which you can track how your friends have earned their Trophies on PS3, Arstechnicastated last week:This is a big improvement from the rather static and useless Gamerscore on the 360, which is a simple number that doesn't really give you much information beyond the score itself.However, itispossible to pull down data on how another gamer has achieved his Xbox 360 Gamerscore. You can also see a gamer's last few unlocked achievements - similarly to the Trophy system. So there.Still, the different levels of accomplishment and the in-depth integration into XMB and online profiles is a step forward, and it's good to hear that trophies will hook into the Home system; previously, Sonymentionedthat gamers would be able to build virtual trophy rooms in their personalised areas of the online virtual world, now we know what they meant.
LVMH's successful case against eBay (eBay hit with &pound;30m fine for sales of fake luxuries, July 1) once again highlights the lack of protection that exists for consumers using online auction sites. The e-commerce of illegal goods impacts on companies in all markets, from fashion and record labels to fragrance and pharmaceutical manufacturers. While auction sites are a great example of how the internet has opened up access to new goods and business opportunities, the online marketplace has been damaged by unscrupulous traders and carries with it its own set of risks.The recent settlement in France sets an expectation on auction sites to ensure that they create a secure and legal shopping environment for consumers, protecting confidence in the e-commerce model. The software industry is committed to raising awareness about the availability and risks of illegal and counterfeit goods on internet auction sites, but the distribution of pirated and unlicensed software, both online and offline, remains big business. Software losses in the UK hit &pound;925m in 2007, highlighting that there is still some way to go to address these deceptive practices.It is essential for auction sites to voluntarily implement stronger policies and procedures, as well as civil and criminal referrals on rogue traders, in order to protect the consumer. In addition, all industries must work together to educate consumers about the risks, so they are more savvy about their purchases. The maxim "if it's too good to be true, it probably is" cannot be overlooked when picking out the genuine article from the fraudulent counterfeits.Robert HolleymanPresident and CEO,Business Software Alliance,Washington DC
The internet giant Google is being forced to hand over the personal information of every person who has ever watched a video on the YouTube website as part of a billion-dollar court case in the US.A judge in New York has ordered that Google, which owns YouTube, must pass on the details of more than 100 million people - many of them in the UK - to Viacom, the US broadcasting company which owns channels including MTV and Nickelodeon.The data will include unique internet addresses, email accounts and the history of every video watched on the website, giving Viacom's experts the ability to conduct a detailed examination of the viewing habits of millions of people around the world.The decision is the latest twist in a long court battle between the two companies over claims that Google encourages copyright infringement on the video sharing website. Judge Louis Stanton, who is presiding over the $1bn lawsuit, said the data handover was required in order to allow Viacom to build its case.Google's lawyers had argued that the cost of producing complete logs of YouTube's viewers would be prohibitive. But that line of reasoning was rejected by the court, which said that concerns over privacy were speculative. "While the logging database is large, all of its content can be copied on to a few 'over-the-shelf' hard drives," Stanton wrote in a 25-page adjudication.While information on who has watched YouTube's countless videos of sneezing pandas and laughing babies may seem trivial, civil liberties campaigners fear the ruling could set a precedent for the level of privacy afforded to people using the internet, and that internet companies could now be sued in order to get hold of sensitive personal data."The court's erroneous ruling is a setback to privacy rights," said Kurt Opsahl, a lawyer for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, an online civil liberties group based in San Francisco. "We urge Viacom to back off this overbroad request and Google to take all steps necessary to challenge this order and protect the rights of its users."YouTube, which was founded in California in 2005, was bought by Google just a year later for $1.65bn and has since become the biggest video site on the web. It has an estimated 72 million users in the US alone, and its videos are watched more than 2.5 billion times each month.The site is used by a number of broadcasters, including the BBC, as an outlet for their videos and clips - but a number of rivals claim that YouTube is a hotbed of piracy and encourages people to upload copyrighted television shows. Although Google has brought in a series of systems to help with the removal of illegal material from the site, Viacom argued that it does not go far enough and launched its court action in March last year.The court's decision also means that Viacom has succeeded in getting hold of exactly the same sort information that the American government has failed to access in the past.In 2006, the US department of justice asked Google to reveal information on millions of web searches conducted on its website, as part of a wide-ranging investigation into illegal activity online. Google challenged the order and successfully fought it off in court, arguing that such a move would invade users' privacy and expose commercially sensitive information.In a statement yesterday, Google said it would lobby for the data it provides to be scrubbed clean of personal information."We are disappointed the court granted Viacom's overreaching demand for viewing history. We will ask Viacom to respect users' privacy and allow us to anonymise the logs before producing them under the court's order," it said.
YouTube won't be forced to hand over its source code to Viacom because a US judge has ruled that it is a trade secret, but the same judge has ruled that the video sharing site must turn overthe record of every video watchedincluding user names and IP addresses to the media giant. Viacom is suing YouTube's parent company Google for $1bn over copyright infringement. Reading the ruling shows what a fishing expedition-or witch-hunt for users-this lawsuit has become. Even with confidentiality, it's clear Viacom could have used this suit to glean some competitive edge. On the flip side, users clearly lose, but at least Viacom isn't sorting through your private videos.Judge Louis Stanton called Google's argument that turning over the user data would violate users' privacy "speculative".Michael Arrington of TechCrunch in a post titled "Judge Protects YouTube's Source Code, Throws Users To The Wolves" said:I can understand why Judge Stanton, who graduated from law school in 1955, may be completely and utterly clueless when it comes to online videos services. But perhaps one of his bright young clerks or interns could have told him that (1) handing over user names and a list of videos they've watched to a highly litigious copyright holder is extremely likely to result in lawsuits against those users that have watched copyrighted content on YouTube, and (2) YouTube's source code is about as valuable as the hard drive it would be delivered on, since the core Flash technology is owned by Adobe and there are countless YouTube clones out there, most of which offer higher quality video.The Electronic Frontier Foundation believes the ruling is in violation of federal law, the federalVideo Privacy Protection Act. The EFF did cede that the court might have been confused by the reference to video tapes in the act and not felt that it applied to the internet, but the act applies not only to old video tapes but also "similar audio visual materials". Was it really necessary for Viacom to have all of this information to prove that its videos were more popular than user generated content? The EFF thinks not. What about you?UPDATE:An ironic twist. Viacom usedGoogle's own assertionsthat IP addresses without other supporting information could not be linked to individuals. And blogger John Little wonders if Viacom will use this information tolaunch suits against YouTube users.Christopher Dawson at ZDNet answersJohn's question: "...there is nothing to stop Viacom from using the data RIAA-style to go after users."Stan Schroeder at Mashable thinks that Viacom will have more than enough information toidentify and then sue YouTube users. To which he responds: "I think I'm not alone here when I say screw you, Viacom."UPDATE 2:As commenter acrobat74 points out from aCNET News.com article, Viacom does have constraints on how it will use the information. And it is more than a 'finger wag' from the court, as I said in the comments last night.Google has been ordered to turn over YouTube user data to Viacom. But Viacom will be guilty of contempt of court if it uses that data for anything other than specifically proving the prevalence of piracy on YouTube, a source close to Viacom told CNET News.com on Thursday.UPDATE 3:EuroJohn asks in the comments: "So, is it actually illegal in the US to watch on YouTube a video uploaded there in breach of copyright?"Chris Soghoian of CNET has made the casethat the answer is yes, even if you watch an illegally uploaded piece of content that the rights holder has actually uploaded. Or to put it another way, if I watch a Dr Who clip uploaded by someone other than the BBC, I would be liable even if the BBC had uploaded the same or a similar clip elsewhere on YouTube. There are questions as to whether streaming content would create the same liability as downloading the content, but that is a legal question yet to be answered by the courts.And Christopher, who writes about education and IT, thinks this might lead more schools to block the video sharing service."Can we justify leaving YouTube unblocked in the face of potential litigation?" I'm not sure of the answer. If it's just keeping kids from watching raunchy videos, I don't mind leaving that to teachers supervising their classes. If it comes to teachers unwittingly showing videos that infringe on copyrights (maybe even videos created by students), then I'm a bit more uncomfortable about exposing teachers and the district to that level of potential liability.Are you pissed off that a US judge has turned over your YouTube video viewing habits to Viacom? Philip at the blog Replicating Memes is calling on Europeans toformally protest to their privacy agenices, and he's posted contact details up for the Belgian privacy office in case you live there.Technorati tags:privacy,youtube
I hadnoidea how long this was going to take - 250 comments a day?! My eyes!So I'm a day late, and this is very short, but, if you didn't dip into Chatterbox this week, here's what you missed...Friday saw the construction of a bloated hate list covering everyone from Peter Molyneux to Hugh Jackman. Oh and as it was filled with celebrities, naturally, Peaches Geldof turned up. Monday was about Linux, Tuesday about story-telling in games - Ico and Shadow of Colossus came out as leading examples, and Naboomagnoli made this good point:It says a lot that the best games for instilling empathy or compassion into the player have been Ico and SotC (IMO). They leave so much to the imagination and do away with voiceovers, and rather than forcing a NPC with a huge backstory and witty one-liners on you, give you a frail young girl to look after (which brings out your paternal/maternal instinct to protect the young) or a faithful and obedient horse as your only companion in an otherwise dead world. When game designers try to use dialogue or backstory, the result is often Sixth-form standard at best.The good news, just in case you weren't aware, Team Ico is working on another Ico title - the bad news for good story fans: it won't be out forages. Anyway, yesterday was about worst gaming moments, thanks to a question along those lines posted by OfficePest. There was also a brief foray into games for girls and a surprisingly heated discussion about the consumer rights involved in returning a videogame, especially if you've taken the wrapping off.Just to clear that up - if the game is faulty, you just need proof of purchase (that can even be a plastic bag). They must exchange or offer a refund. If the product isn't faulty (whether you've removed the wrapping or not), you can usually return within 28 days for an exchange, but it's up to the shop whether they offer you a refund - there's no legal compulsion. If you buy online you have a seven day get-out clause allowing you to return the item for a full refund.Ta da!Favourite remarks/questions"Roast beef, chips, Yorkie and onion gravy. £2.20 Happy days!" Tenancy enjoys his dinner."Just waiting for the cleaner to go before sticking MGS4 on." NickT provides a masterclass in middle-class gaming etiquette."Can I just shock you. I like wine." Tony Hayerson cultured gamingnicking quotes from Alan Partridge."Does anyone have games that they're too scared to play?" DMT2 looks for more scaredy cats."What's the shittest tattoo anyone's ever seen?" Codenamehardhat should possibly put that one toHadley Freeman."Does anybody else like a 'blonde' beer?" More drinking revelations, this time from Shewrog2.Favourite music of the weekFleet Foxes Gabriella Cilmi Sigur Ros The National Band of Horses RadioHeadFavourite games of the weekCrisis Core MGS 4 Battlefield Bad Company Mass effect Black Smash Bros Brawl Uncharted The World Ends with You GTA IVCultural concerns of the weekThe failings of Dexter series 2 Giving up smoking Linux - and why it's not as simple as people seem to think Anti-depressants and alternatives Tokyo - and how to do it properlyNow I'm going to have a long lie down.
Virgin Media and the BPI have sent warning letters to people whose IP addresses have been identified as having been used for file-sharing. Both letters are reprinted below.The text of Virgin Media's letter to customersWe're writing to you about downloading and sharing of copyrighted files on the internet. That's because we've received a report that copyrighted music has been shared using a computer linked to your Virgin Media internet account. Please allow us to explain.As we're sure you'll know, many files that can be saved on your computer (like music and videos) are protected by copyright.  While it may be okay to store them for personal use, it's unlawful to download or share them without the permission of the copyright owner – for example, the record company or film studio that released them.  Otherwise it's a "copyright infringement", which can lead to legal action being taken against the person responsible.It's one of the jobs of theBPI, which represents British record labels, to make sure that copyrighted music files aren't unlawfully shared over the internet. They wrote to let us know that they believe your internet connection is being used to share files.We understand you may be concerned about this, and you might be unsure how it happened. One possible answer is that other people in your household have used your computer and/or Internet connection, and they might have shared these files with others by using unauthorised "peer-to-peer/P2P" filesharing networks like "BitTorrent" or "Limewire".However, you need to make sure that these files aren't downloaded or shared from your Virgin Media internet connection in future – for example, making sure they're not being made available through the use of file sharing networks, and securing any wireless router that you have. We encourage all our customers to use appropriate security solutions to safeguard their computers whilst online, and therefore we recommend that you usePCGuard, our suite of security services.This can also help to prevent the spread of computer viruses which are sometimes disguised as illegal music files.  All this will help make sure that no further steps are taken against you.We've included a summary of the BPI report below, we hope that this and the enclosed BPI letter helps explain how to prevent unauthorised downloading and filesharing and how to enjoy music safely online. If you'd like details of any further technical  information supplied to us by the BPI or if there's anything else you'd like to know, just call our internet security team on 0845 454 1098. Please note we have not shared any of your account or personal information with the BPI as part of this communication.Text of the BPI's letter to filesharersDear Virgin Media CustomerEnjoying Music On The Internet &amp; Illegal FilesharingWe're writing to you about enjoying music on the internet and about illegal downloading and filesharing. It's an issue which affects you, so it's very important that you read this letter carefully.We're exceptionally lucky in Britain to have a world-beating music-making community, with a strong and sophisticated fan base. But we can only keep it that way if we all work together to ensure that the musicians who create this great music are rewarded for doing so.That's where copyright comes in — copyright applies just as much to online music as it does to physical CDs. That means that you can't upload or download files on your computer without the authorisation of the copyright owner. Legal download services such as iTunes and 7digital authoriseyou to download music and make a few copies for your own personal use.  But it's illegal to download from unauthorised peer-to-peer/P2P networks such as BitTorrent. It's also illegal to share music files with other people, unless you have specific permission from the copyright owner. Otherwisemusicians won't be paid and record labels won't be able to invest in the kind of new music that you might want to enjoy in the future.That's why the BPI team carries out regular checks online.  We have information that someone — and it may not be you — is using your Virgin Media internet account to access music illegally. However it happened, it is illegal. We therefore need you to take steps to stop it from happening again.  The steps you can take are set out in the enclosed "What To Do Next" section. You should know that if you don't do this and the problem happens again, then you could face legal action.We don't want you to face legal action or risk losing your internet service — we want you to enjoy music legally. The good news is that there is plenty of online music for you to download legally. Take a look atpro-music.orgfor a list — there are millions of tracks available of all types and genres.If you'd like to discuss any concerns you have in relation to this letter, then please don't hesitate to get in touch.  Our contact details are set out in the "What To Do Next" section.  We're ready to help.Thanks for your time.Yours sincerelyGeoff TaylorChief Executive, BPI
Share price chart constructed at Yahoo Finance (click for larger version)Michael Dell, who is already Dell's largest shareholder, has just bought $100 million worth of Dell shares at an average of $22.07 a share. According toBarron's: "The purchase brought his direct holdings to 22 million shares. He also indirectly owns 26.4 million."Dell is currently moving into retail sales of notebooks, and is now selling some consumer friendly PCs such as the Studio range. It is also going to enter the subnotebook market with what we currently think of as the Dell E series -- minibooks with 8.9 inch screens and Intel Atom (1.6GHz Diamondville) processors running Linux or Windows XP. When these are launched, later this year, they will compete directly with the Asus Eee range.Whether that makes Dell shares a good bet is another matter. I know nothing about share buying and am not qualified to give anybody any advice, but I do know that Dell shares have performed much like Microsoft shares, as shown above. (Microsoft is the darkest line, and Dell the red line.)Both had a fantastic run in the 1990s, which created a handful of billionaires and thousands of millionaires. At their peak, Microsoft shares were up almost 60,000%.Both suffered in the dotcom crash, with a bit of help from the US Justice Department shovelling sand into the engine of the US economy. However, neither suffered as much as "pure" internet plays such as Yahoo (yellow line).Having been -- in my inexpert opinion -- overvalued at their peak, neither has moved that much since 2000. Both companies appear too strong to prompt a sell-off that would really drive the price down, but neither has come up with a striking new source of future profits, which might drive it up. Even Google (green line) isn't perceived to be doing that.Microsoft's share price has bumped along in general decline in spite of the fact that Steve Ballmer has more than doubled sales (from $25bn to $51bn) and profits (from $7.3bn to $14.1bn) since taking over in 2001. He's also started paying dividends and returned tens of billions of dollars to shareholders (more than $30 billion last year).Dell, by comparison, has stumbled, and it has been overtaken by HP in PC sales. Even though Dell increased its sales by about $5 billion in the past two years, its operating incomedeclinedby almost $1 billion. And whereas Microsoft has a profit margin of 28.33% and owns around 90% of its major markets, Dell has a profit margin of 4.76% and faces fierce competition from HP, Acer, Asus, Lenovo and more than 10,000 other PC makers. It's a tough market.So my question is, why would you expect Dell shares to outperform Microsoft shares? Over what time period?It's hard to know how far share prices are based on business fundamentals rather than sentiment or the phases of the moon, but perceived success in the consumer laptop market could certainly give Dell's shares a kick. On the other hand, it's hard to see them increasing another 20,000% over the next decade. Google shares, of course, might.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Virgin Media customers who illegally share copyrighted files online will not face having their internet connection cut off, the company said today.Last month the country's second-largest internet service provider started sending letters to a number of identified filesharers, outlining the nature of illegal downloading and pointing to internet services that offer music and videos within the scope of the law.Followingreports todayregarding the letters, however, a Virgin Media spokesman told the Guardian that this was not a prelude to a "three strikes" policy which could see persistent offenders lose their internet access."As part of this we don't make any kind of accusation about the user — it could be somebody else in their house, their block of flats or they might have an open Wi-Fi connection," said the spokesman."We can't point the finger at the account holder, but we can point out what's happening with their connection. Often it's a lack of education that's causing the problem."The letters are the latest move in a plan being pushed by British music industry body the BPI, which is waging a long campaign against filesharing. The BPI is advocating a system similar to one proposed by French politicians, in which those who share files illegally are given a series of warnings before having their internet connection closed down.That idea, mooted by French president Nicholas Sarkozy, has yet to be passed into law and has provoked controversy both at home and abroad.The approach taken by Virgin means that any potential prosecutions of filesharers would have to be put in process by copyright holders themselves, or the organisations which represent them — as is currently the case.Earlier this year the BPI warned ISPS that they must take action against filesharers or it would seek an injunction against the companies. Some reacted angrily to such threats – including Charles Dunstone, the chief executive of Carphone Warehouse."Our position is very clear," he told the BBCat the time. "We are the conduit that gives users access to the internet. We do not control the internet, nor do we control what our users do on the internet.""I cannot foresee any circumstances in which we would voluntarily disconnect a customer's account on the basis of a third party alleging a wrongdoing."Virgin already employs so-called throttling measures to prevent heavy downloaders from using the full scope of their internet service — regardless of whether they are acting within the law or not — as a way to maintain the level of service for its other customers.
Virgin Media has sent out 800 letters to people whose IP addresses have been identified by the music industry as having been used for file-sharing, and "thousands more" will follow, according to the BPI, which represents the record labels in the UK.We'vereferredto theprocessbefore - basically, the BPI finds IP addresses it finds are partaking in file-sharing of copyrighted material, and then passes it on to the relevant ISP.It's a three-step process: as the BPI explains how itwouldwork [Emphasis added; clarification that this isn't what is happening added - ta EuroJohn in the comments],"the first step is meant to be educational.. The customer is told why they have been written to, and offers them advice on how to prevent further account abuse".The second step: suspension."If a customer's account is identified a second time, their account is suspended. The customer is asked to sign a written undertaking stating that their account will not continue to be used illegally, and that they understand that further illegal use of that account may result in the cancellation of their contract. The account remains suspended until the undertaking is returned."(Feels a bit more like a two-step or even one-step process to me, but anyway.)Step three: cancellation."If a customer's account is identified a third time, their contract with the internet service provider is cancelled, in line with the terms and conditions outlined in the contract."And some more detail on how identification happens, from the BPI:There is no "spying" under three-step: the evidence collected by the BPI is in fact made available by any uploader to in the normal course of using a p2p network. There is no "policing" by the ISP: it is the BPI, and not the ISP, who collects this evidence. Nor does the process raise "data protection issues": no personal customer information is collected by the BPI in this process, nor is it requested by the BPI.It's important to understand how p2p filesharing works. For computers to share files, one computer (uploader) transmits an "IP address" to enable another computer (downloader) to locate the file and download/ copy it.An IP address is a unique number that identifies a unique internet location. It is from the IP address that individuals using p2p networks can be identified. It is simple to tell which ISP "owns" an IP address, but only the ISP knows which customer was using that IP address at that particular time.Without going into precise technical details on how the information is collected and documented, the BPI logs on to the network as a peer - similar to the way in which any other p2p user does - and initiates a download from the IP address, using a semi-automated process.The BPI supplies the information to the ISP, which can identify the customer concerned from the IP address that made the file unlawfully available. This enables the ISP to implement the three step process.So (1) you're not going to get done for torrenting that Linux distro, or sharing that music you recorded yourself in the garage (2) there isn't, at present, a step (4) sue person. Possibly the BPI thinks that the harassment of being booted off an ISP might be enough.Except - to clarify again, as is also done below and above, Virgin says itwon'tboot anyone off its service. This seems to be a formula which satisfies the ISP's obligation to the copyright holder - in that it's warning people - and stops there. As we noted in our24 April story:the law is silent on precisely what constitutes "taking action". Does it mean (as the BPI is urging ISPs to interpret it) "tell people who are using file-sharing networks to download copyighted music to stop or they'll get kicked off the system in a three-strikes-and-you're-out model"? Or does it mean - as one ISP suggested to us it does, at least to their legal department - writing a letter to every subscriber reminding them that downloading copyrighted material and not paying for it is illegal?And just while we're on the matter of suing, the BPI adds:The evidence collection process is robust: the technique has stood up to High Court scrutiny on numerous occasions, and similar evidence has been used to bring more than 50,000 legal cases against the users themselves across Europe. Not one of those cases has recorded a mistaken ID, or been successfully contested.Right. So, anyone received a Virgin or BT letter? And is/was it justified? (Note: this can't be used as evidence in court.)Update:we've got the text of the letter, in case you haven't got one..Virgin's letter- but Virginsays it won't cut poeple off. Not quite sure how that squares with step (3) above...
ThePrincess Bride game- based on the much-loved Rob Reiner flick from 1987 - hasfinallybeen released:Gosh, it looks like Dragon's Lair, doesn't it? It plays that way too - all clunky controls and really basic interaction. It's essentially 5 minigame mechanics: 'Time Management' on the farm, 'Inconceivable Trivia' with Fezzik, 'Puzzle Platformer' vs. the ROUSes in the Fire Swamp, 'Hidden Objects and Potion Cooking' with Billy Crystal and Carol Kane and 'Inventory Collection &amp; Assembly' at the castle. A Flash game in Princess Bride clothing. Meh. It doesn't feel much like it's aimed at me (an old skool fan of the film), which the new 'song' by a trio called Clique Girls is testament to. (Avril Lavigne has a whole lot to answer for)But if you are sill compelled, you can download the free trial (PC only at the moment) fromhere.As an addendum, I've been trying my darndest to figure out the best place to add this little bit of telly trivia. Did you know thatConnections, the 1980s TV series in which science historianJames Burketakes us on a personal journey along the pathways of innovation, was turned into a computer game?Which other inconceivable game-media marriages have you seen? Do tell and I'll put them in a long post in the future.Here are a couple of starters for ten:Beverly Hills Copfor the C64 and the AmigaDirty Dancingfor the PC.Little Britainfor the PC and PS2Desperate Housewivesfor the PC
Launch audio playerThe Tech Weekly podcast aims to please, and getting a Singstar performance by regulars Aleks Krotoski and Jemima Kiss has to be the highlight - even if it did happen at Glastonbury. (There's aphoto on Flickr by Happyrobot, though I'm not sure who the singers are; not displayed here because it's got a non-commercial CC licence.)There's also Cory Doctorow with his lowdown on all the week's news (including whether selling other peoples' photos is theft, piracy, copyright infringement or nothing to get hung about). And Blast Theory explain how they use SMS and GPS to produce their performance art.Love it? Hate it? Want to hear something particular on it? Get in touch using any of the methods below, and don't forget toSkype usand join our newTwitter feed.• Tell us what you think bycalling our Skype voicemailor mail us attech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog about this week's programme•Get our Twitter feed for updates on the programme across the week•Join our Facebook groupSubscribe via iTunesDownload mp3Podcast feed URL
Vot! Hitler kicked off Xbox Live?A terrific series of video mashups starts with a scene from the film Downfall, about Hitler's last days, and subtitles it with different scenarios. Here, Hitler is kicked off Xbox Live. Strong language follows. (There's a whole series of scenarios: Blu-ray vs HD DVD, Vista upgrade, Irish referendum.. tell us your favourite!)All the heave of the funfairWe never tire of industrial robots being used for dangerous rides. Nor did the visitors to the MACH industrial machine show at the NEC in April. (Thanks to Sean Kerslake, who filmed it all.)I can fix an iBook in 15 secondsBust iBook? No problem! The magic of theGawkersoftware means it takes no time at all to repair the whole thing.Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us about it in the comments, or email tech@guardian.co.uk .
An eagle-eyed reader got in touch to point out a little website callediPhoneUnlockUKwhich, unsurprisingly, offers iPhone unlocking software.Perhaps a little more unexpected, though, is that it has an old Guardian Unlimited logo emblazoned across the top of the page, along with adornments from Which? and ITV. That's OK - this often happens with websites we give coverage to. But this one goes a bit further. In the text of the page, the company makes some bold claims:We were the first company worldwide to offer unlocking solutions and support for the Apple iPhone, and continue to lead the industry in innovation with our award winning software, support and have been recently recommended by Which!, The Guardian and ITV News.Well, that came as news to me... not only that they were the first company to offer an unlock (really?), but I didn't remember us giving any endorsements of this kind. So I went and checked. In fact, the only mention we have ever made of this website was in anarticle about Apple's problem with unlockersby my colleague David Smith, who said precisely the following:Apple and O2 now face the threat of 'unlocking' in Britain, with such services publicly advertising in shops on London's Tottenham Court Road and websites such as iPhoneUnlockUK.com and AppleiPhoneUnlock.co.ukThat barely qualifies as a mention, let alone a recommendation.OK - so perhaps they're just guilty of talking themselves up. But it gets worse.The Unofficial Apple Weblogpointed out that iPhoneUnlockUK uses a piece of software calledPwnage- which is available for free - but re-sells it for £29.99.However you might feel about unlocking as an activity, this move got on the nerves of the makers of Pwnage,who posted about the issue, saying "We didn't license this application to them, we don't license it to anyone. The application even contains the PwnageTool helpfile and original credits!".The person behind the site, Jody Sanders, then posted a comment in response, apologising for re-selling the software without permission. However, the provenance of the Guardian "recommendation" remained a mystery. I've just emailed Sanders to see what the deal is, but in the meantime, here's the bottom line:The Guardian has never recommended iPhoneUnlockUK.com and it'shighlyunlikely that we ever would recommend a company which re-sells somebody else's free software without permission.
Diablo 2 saved my PS3? Well, possibly. I had planned to download thePS3's latest firmware- you know the one that finally brings many of the 360's features to PS3 - last night. Yup, it's all fun and games round mine. But a recent purchase and re-install of Diablo 2 - inspired by this weekend's D3 announcement - meant I got so distracted by the hacking, slashing and looting that I forgot to switch the PS3 on last night. Andjudging by reportsit looks like I was lucky. Sony have pulled the firmware update amid reports that some PS3 owners have had their machines freeze up after installing the upgrade. There seems to be a fix that involvesremoving and reformattingyour PS3's hard-drive but clearly that isn't an option for more casual users. Anyone here upgraded to 2.40? How was it for you?
Looking at digital SLR cameras, most appear to use xD cards. I already use SD cards. What is the difference?MauriceThe SD (Secure Digital) card standard was developed by Panasonic, SanDisk and Toshiba to provide a small protected storage format for devices such as PDAs, MP3 players and mobile phones. There are now miniSD and microSD versions, plus high-capacity SDHC cards.The SDHC cards look the same but are generally incompatible with older devices that lack SDHC support, so this is the main point to watch. Digital SLRs that use SD cards are available from Nikon, Canon, Pentax, Panasonic and Samsung.The xD (extreme Digital) storage format is similar, but was introduced later by Olympus and Fujifilm. This now has variants called Type M and Type H, so again, watch out for compatibility problems. Since xD is less popular that SD, prices are usually higher and cards will fit fewer devices.Frankly, I can't see any reason for choosing xD rather than SD or CompactFlash -- an older but very reliable format that uses a much bigger card -- and I avoid the numerous Sony Memory Stick cards for the same reasons. If you have multiple devices, then it should be cheaper and more convenient to stick to a couple of popular formats, instead of having a different type of card in each device.
I like Outlook Express but cannot use spellcheck with my new laptop because it has only French spelling.GP RayFunnily enough, this is a common complaint, because Microsoft Office 2007 installs English, Spanish and German files that are incompatible with Outlook Express 6. This is a problem because OE does not actually have a spellchecker: it borrows one from Microsoft Office or Microsoft Works.Microsoft's Help Centre articleoffers a solution. It says: "There are a variety of third-party free spell-checking programs available on the Internet". One popular option is Vampirefo'sSpell Checker For OE, which is also available fromSnapFiles. You could also use the inline spellchecker in Firefox 2 or Internet Explorer 7 with IE7Pro. If you really want to try to fix the problem, however, Tech-Pro.net has an article onHow To: Fix spell checking in Outlook Express 6.
For several years I have been very satisfied with Microsoft's Picture It! program. However, having changed my computer, it is no longer available.JH PrenticeMicrosoft's Picture It! was included in the Microsoft Works suite and subsumed into the Microsoft Digital Image Suite. Microsoft discontinued it after adding most of the features to Windows Vista. However, your old CD could work: according to web reports, Picture It! 9 and 10 will work in Vista if you run it in XP compatibility mode and check the box "As Administrator".Sadly, the very easy photo retouching features were not added to Vista, and I don't know of any other program that takes the same non-geeky approach. The closest may be an online Flash-based picture editor,Picnik. Otherwise,Paint.netis a good free picture editor for Windows, though it's in the traditional mould.
One of my three anti-spyware programs keeps reporting a Trojan backdoor in the internat.exe Windows file. This has a large query as its icon, and properties describes it as a Keyboard Language Indicator Applet. If I let the program remove it, or if I delete it myself, then it promptly reappears. Richard ParishTry running a search for internat.exe, the name of the software that detects it and "false alarm", because that's what it probably is. There are at least two versions of internat.exe, one of which puts a small blue square in the SysTray to let you change languages. Most UK users don't need this feature and don't run it. This has a question mark icon and is about 20K. The Trojan version is about four times larger and has a zip file icon. If it also says "Hello. I'm NetSnake" on startup, then it's definitely a virus. For more information, seeSymantec's write-up.
An institution on PC, Civilization finally arrives on the consoles. But how does the series - famous for complex historical turn-based strategy - fare on the more action-focused consoles? Fantastically well, actually. Some of the fat has been trimmed - real hardcore fans would be better off with Civ 4 on PC - but Revolution gets the right mix between accessibility and depth. As usual, the game is a turn-based race to modernity between competing empires. Military prowess is important, but the joy of the Civ games has always been the variety of routes to success. So empires can also win by establishing the UN or World Bank (cultural and economic) and winning the space race (technological). The intuitive controls and vibrant art style mean that seemingly complex gameplay decisions - diplomacy or aggression? - are easy to make. Multiplayer is well incorporated too, although the relatively lengthy nature of the games could cause problems. A welcome change of pace on the consoles, Civilization Revolution is a triumph.
Real goes MP3Real Networks and MTV have followed Amazon and others in adopting unprotected MP3 files for a newMusic Without Limitsservice.Imeasure and save moneyImeasureis a free service designed at Oxford University to help people save money on their energy bills.Dell's designer StudioDell has started introducing newStudio consumer laptopsthat fit between its standard low-cost models and its high-end XPS range.OLDO words onlineOxford University Press is offeringbilingual dictionaries onlineas a subscription service.Searching Evri-whereEvri has opened a closed beta of anew way of browsing the webbased on "semantic understanding" of content.Technology of Tomorrow?TOT2008, which aims to become "the UK's most prestigious business conference," will be held at the Royal Albert Hall on September 30.More Yahoo addressesYahoo is offering email addresses atymail.comand rocketmail.com, so users have two more chances to get one they like.Meeting strangersMore than 1,000 personal videos from 49 countries will be shown at theStrangerFestivalin Amsterdam, July 3-5.
Babak Parviz wears contact lenses. But he's not yet using the new contact lenses he's made in his Seattle laboratory. Containing electronic circuits, they look like something from a science fiction movie. He's now going to add some extremely small light emitting diodes (LEDs), helping turn his prototype contact lenses into a sophisticated personal display - the tiniest one possible.As an assistant professor of electrical engineering at the University of Washington, Parviz works on bio-nanotechnology, self-assembly, nanofabrication and micro-electro mechanical systems. He makes tiny but functional electronic devices and, using nanotechnology and microfabrication techniques, integrates them on to polymers or glass using a process known as self-assembly.So how did he think of making a "bionic" contact lens? "Imagine a person with that kind of research expertise and background," says Parviz. "Imagine also the same person waking up every morning and putting a contact lens in his eye."Looking aheadMaking the connection wasn't hard, as Parviz had also been thinking about unconventional displays. Contact lenses are made from flexible transparent polymers, just the sort of challenging material that Parviz likes to stick tiny electronic circuits on. "The driver is not to make something small. The driver is to make something that's cool and useful. Having a display in a contact lens is very useful."Parviz argues that ironically, the current display sizes in mobile computers and phones hinder rather than help miniaturisation. "The display size is one of the main reasons that laptops, cellphones, PDAs, etc are not smaller today. If we move the display to a contact lens, we can significantly remove the physical constraints on mobile devices."So far, he's shown that high-performance circuitry including microLEDs can be incorporated on to transparent, thin, flexible plastic substrates. The circuits involve making metal layers a few nanometres thick linked to LEDs that are about one third of a millimetre across. A microfabrication technique known as self-assembly relies on capillary effects to bring together pre-shaped pieces of circuit.The prototype contact lens - which will eventually contain LEDs - has yet to be powered up. That key step, says Parviz, is several months off. "We're looking at two different ways to transmit power. One is radio frequency power transmission. We need antennae on these contact lenses anyway because we need to transmit data to them. The other way we're looking at right now is to incorporate photovoltaic [solar] cells."Power isn't the hardest problem. A contact lens sits directly on the surface of the eye, much too close for the eye's lens to focus on. "To create the focused image we have to manipulate the light rays," says Parviz. "You can create a focused image if you use laser instead of LEDs."If shining very low power diode lasers on to the retina seems risky, then microLEDs might be the answer. These provide diffuse light and, to make them work, Parviz might integrate an array of individual micro-lenses into the contact lens. "If the pixel [the microLED] is close enough to the micro-lens, it will generate a virtual image that could be 30cm or more away from the surface. Our eyes can focus on this now."All this raises questions of biocompatibility: the electronics in the contact lenses must not harm the eye. If that's assured, then the idea of a fully functional wireless display on a contact lens might seem, at first, to have many uses.Parviz talks about augmented reality, such as superimposing text messages or direction arrows on your view of the world. But even trivial applications will require a high-resolution display. So his next step is to demonstrate a programmable wireless contact lens with a few pixels - perhaps eight - that's safe to wear. Since his work became widely known, Parviz has received emails from people wanting to test the contact lenses, while others have proposed ideas. He's also had emails from those with vision problems, an area he hopes to help with.An 11-year-old student also wrote in describing a school competition involving an idea for a "closed caption eye" using electronic contact lenses for the hearing-impaired. For example, a fire alarm symbol appears when the alarm sounds, an idea Parviz now has in mind. "We are looking right now at gaming, augmented reality, computing, telecom and medical applications."However, Professor James Wolffsohn of Aston University in Birmingham isn't enthusiastic. As the head of optometry, his research interests include contact lenses. "I've never seen anyone try and print circuits on to a contact lens," says Wolffsohn.He points out that a contact lens is around 14mm wide, compared to the pupil's diameter of between 4mm and 5mm. He reckons that doesn't leave a lot of space for electronics without interrupting vision; and it might be difficult to project an image from the periphery into the eye's central area."The focusing would be the real issue. These are incredibly close to the eye," says Wolffsohn of Parviz's plan. He adds that while dust in a contact lens is uncomfortable, you don't see it because it's just too close. The same applies to images on the contact lens. "There would have to be some projection technology for it to appear at a distance that you could then focus on. I can't really see them generating a projection through a contact lens."Vision onWolffsohn also doesn't think the research will help low-vision sufferers who need high-contrast large-text solutions; only a very small number wear contact lenses already. Most people commonly needing vision correction choose glasses, and, as for laser diodes: "There would certainly be issues about laser damage to the retina."Nevertheless, Wolffsohn is attracted to the idea of putting electronics on to glasses (as has been done with some products already). There's more space and no biocompatibility issues, while image projection is an easier proposition. His verdict on using contact lenses as a display device? "They wouldn't be my starting point if I had this technology," says Wolffsohn. But whichever way this research goes, it's worth keeping an eye on.
SD or xD?Looking at digital SLR cameras, most appear to use xD cards. I already use SD cards. What is the difference?MauriceJS:The SD (Secure Digital) card standard was developed by Panasonic, SanDisk and Toshiba to provide a small protected storage format for devices such as PDAs, MP3 players and mobile phones. There are now miniSD and microSD versions, plus SDHC cards.The SDHC cards look the same but are generally incompatible with older devices that lack SDHC support, so this is the main point to watch. Digital SLRs that use SD cards are available from Nikon, Canon, Pentax, Panasonic and Samsung.The xD (extreme Digital) storage format is similar, but was introduced later by Olympus and Fujifilm. This now has variants called Type M and Type H, so again, watch out for compatibility problems. Since xD is less popular that SD, prices are usually higher and cards will fit fewer devices. Frankly, I can't see any reason for choosing xD rather than SD or CompactFlash - an older but very reliable format that uses a much bigger card - and I avoid the numerous Sony Memory Stick cards for the same reasons. If you have multiple devices, then it should be cheaper and more convenient to stick to a couple of popular formats, instead of having a different type of card in each device.OE? Oui!I like Outlook Express but cannot use spellcheck with my new laptop because it has only French spelling.GP RayJS:Funnily enough, this is a common complaint, because Microsoft Office 2007 installs English, Spanish and German files that are incompatible with Outlook Express 6. This is a problem because OE does not actually have a spellchecker: it borrows one from Microsoft Office or Microsoft Works. Microsoft's Help Centre article offers a solution. It says:"There are a variety of third-party free spell-checking programs available on the Internet". One popular option isVampirefo's Spell Checker For OE, which is also available fromSnapFiles. You could also use the inline spellchecker in Firefox 2 or Internet Explorer 7 with IE7Pro. If you really want to try to fix the problem, however, Tech-Pro.net has an article onHow To: Fix spell checking in Outlook Express 6.Replacing Picture ItFor several years I have been very satisfied with Microsoft's Picture It! program. However, having changed my computer, it is no longer available.JH PrenticeJS:Microsoft's Picture It! was included in the Microsoft Works suite and subsumed into the Microsoft Digital Image Suite. Microsoft discontinued it after adding most of the features to Windows Vista. However, your old CD could work: according to web reports, Picture It! 9 and 10 will work in Vista if you run it in XP compatibility mode and check the box "As Administrator". Sadly, the very easy photo retouching features were not added to Vista, and I don't know of any other program that takes the same non-geeky approach. The closest may be an online Flash-based picture editor,Picnik. Otherwise,Paint.netis a good free picture editor for Windows, though it's in the traditional mould.NetSnake corralledOne of my three anti-spyware programmes keeps reporting a Trojan backdoor in the internat.exe Windows file. This has a large query as its icon, and properties describes it as a Keyboard Language Indicator Applet. If I let the program remove it, or if I delete it myself, then it promptly reappears.Richard ParishJS:Try running a search for internat.exe, the name of the software that detects it and "false alarm", because that's what it probably is. There are at least two versions of internat.exe, one of which puts a small blue square in the SysTray to let you change languages. Most UK users don't need this feature and don't run it. This has a question mark icon and is about 20K. The Trojan version is about four times larger and has a zip file icon. If it also says "Hello. I'm NetSnake" on startup, then it's definitely a virus. For more information, seeSymantec's write-up.Backchat&middot; Bill Taylor has come up with "a very simple typo that causes a Word document to be closed without saving" - which was Stafford Linsley's problem. It's "Ctrl+W - an unadvertised keyboard shortcut for Close". He says he learned the hard way by typing "When" and hitting Ctrl instead of the shift key.I've previously recommended Ctrl-Was a quick way of closing unwanted popups and browser windows.
In last year's dismal parade of government IT security blunders, it was a relatively minor exhibit. A system supposed to automate the matching of trainee doctors with jobs was abandoned after applicants' personal details became visible on the website (Junior doctors' personal details made public in website blunder, April 26 2007).The Medical Training Application Service (MTAS) debacle cost the Department of Health &pound;6m and some ministerial red faces, and caused anxiety and frustration among thousands of junior doctors.It is also emerging as a key exhibit in the campaign to change a distinctive feature of the way the government buys IT - its preference for large suppliers.'Dangerously imbalanced'IT industry veteran Nic Birtles blames the fiasco on the way the government's own rules prevented the Department of Health from hiring a specialist business (of which he is chairman) which was already supplying a similar working system, in favour of a generalist IT systems integration company. He says these same rules are paving the way for more disasters - and also damaging the national economy.The government's fondness for large IT suppliers is well documented. A study published in 2006 found the UK to be unusually dependent on a few large IT companies. The study concluded that the relationship was "dangerously imbalanced" and that there was a direct correlation with disasters: "The greater the power of the IT industry, the less effective the performance of government IT has been."Government IT chiefs say the sheer scale of the public sector's activities demands big players, especially as the UK centralises procedures such as driving licence applications that in other large countries might be devolved to a state or province. However, at least one large government programme - the &pound;12bn NHS National Programme for IT - had an explicit aim to lure multinationals in to the market.MTAS was not part of the national programme, but Birtles says it was a victim of the same mentality. He claims that his company, Konetic, had developed a working system for handling GP recruitment which went live in 2005.However, when the Department of Health went out to tender for a replacement system covering all medical specialities, Konetic was not allowed to bid for the work as it was not listed in S-CAT, a catalogue of approved suppliers. "We weren't even told they were going out to tender. They ignored us completely," he says.In the event, the contract went to Methods Consulting, which describes itself as a UK top 20 Business and IS consultancy with an annual turnover in excess of &pound;50m. Its clients include the Department of Work and Pensions, HM Revenue and Customs and the Ministry of Defence.Birtles claims Methods Consulting had "no previous experience of implementing such large and complex recruitment system". The company this week described this statement as "incorrect", but declined to discuss the contract further. After the disastrous launch, MTAS was cancelled.The blame, Birtles says, lies with the decision to rush the project and launch the system as a "big bang" rather than stage it across different medical specialities. But he also blames the procurement process."The big question this asks is: why does government procurement policy go against giving business to smaller specialist companies in favour of big generalist companies that often don't really understand the problems involved? The MTAS debacle has wasted over &pound;6.5m of taxpayers' money. More enlightened procurement policies could have avoided this disaster. Favouring large companies exclusively is killing entrepreneurial IT activity in the UK," he says.Start small, think bigBirtles suggests that government departments should be obliged to spend a small percentage of their budget each year with small innovative early-stage companies, as in the US government's 8A programme.Such an idea could soon be on the political agenda. Last month, the Department for Business, Enterprise &amp; Regulatory Reform set up an inquiry under Anne Glover, chief executive of Amadeus Capital Partners, to examine the barriers small businesses face in winning public-sector contracts.Among its tasks is to examine the practicality of setting a goal for small and medium-sized enterprises to win 30% of public-sector business.However, the inquiry comes a little late. The 2002 spending review injected &pound;6bn into making good what Gordon Brown calls "decades of underinvestment" in government IT. The contracts funded by that wave of investment - overwhelmingly with large companies - are now in place. It will be many years before the government goes computer shopping on that scale again.
