Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatest new iPhone and iPad apps and games.All prices are correct at the time of writing, with “IAP” indicating use of in-app purchases.You can read the previousBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundups for more recommendations, but if Android is your platform of choice, check theBest Android Appsroundups. On with this week’s selection!APPSLoopimal (£2.49)As ways to get your children into music-making go, Loopimal is one of the most creative and fun apps around. It’s a colourful mini-sequencer where children drag shapes onto a looping timeline to create sounds, accompanied by dancing animals. Simply marvellous.iPhone / iPadAlexi (Free)Everyone and their Spotify-playlisting aunt is banging on about “curation” in 2015. Alexi applies the idea to books, with its own team and special guests – authors including David Mitchell, Sarah Hall and Bret Easton Ellis – creating themed lists of books for you to swipe through in search of new reading material. What’s missing (for now) is a direct way to buy them. But there are bookshops for that...iPhoneDetour (Free + IAP)If you’re looking for an app to get you out and about looking at the real world, Detour is well worth a look. It’s a collection of “audio walks” that has just gone global – initially a guided tour of San Francisco haunts, it now includes walks for London, Berlin, Barcelona, Paris and Marrakech, sold as in-app purchases.iPhoneRelook (£2.99)You’re spotty and ugly! But Relook can make you beautiful. Is the message I’m taking from this clever photography app, which “enhances natural beauty” by editing out your grease, wrinkles and pimples, as well as plumping up your eyelashes and putting a sparkle in your eyes. Sadly, no filter for ‘British teeth’ yet…iPhone / iPadThe Pink Panther (£2.29)De-dum de-dum. De-dum. De-dum de-dum de-dum de-dum DA-DAAAAAH. De-dum-dum-dum. The Pink Panther theme tune is iconic (albeit slightly less-so written down), and this is an interesting idea: a sheet-music app to help you learn to play it on the piano, slowing down the pace if necessary.iPadSago Mini Boats (£2.29)A good week for iOS-owning parents, with Sago Mini Boats the second playful app for kids. Launched by developer Sago Sago, this has a nautical theme as a dog named Harvey sets sail in a range of boats and ships, meeting friends as he goes. With no goals, it’s relaxing pre-school fun.iPhone / iPadVee for Video (£1.49 + IAP)There are (probably) more apps for shooting and sharing video now than there are professional broadcast camera operators. Vee is the latest looking to help people tell their stories, with slick editing features, filters and the ability to upload to social services in the background.iPhone / iPadMachinima (Free)Machinima is one of the popular multi-channel networks finding an audience on YouTube. Now it’s doing it through an app too: obviously it serves up the company’s videos – mainly focused on gaming – but comments and community are also big features, along with the ability to share your own videos, images and GIFs.iPhoneRamadan Legacy (Free)Muslims are preparing for the month ofRamadan, which begins on Wednesday. Here’s a new app that aims to be a companion for the annual event: a mixture of planning, information and social tools to complement the month ahead.iPhone / iPadWantList (Free)Previously known as Styloko, this relaunched app is all about fashion – and specifically, shopping for it. The latest app to take a leaf out of Tinder’s book with its “swipe left to reject and swipe right to approve” interface, it serves up an array of products to tempt your wallet.iPhone / iPadTiki Taka Soccer for iPhone and iPad.Photograph: PRGAMESTiki Taka Soccer (Free + IAP)If you, like me, grew up on the Sensible Soccer games, Tiki Taka Soccer’s pixelly graphics will give you a bolt of nostalgia. Thankfully, this is a worthy successor in gameplay too: an inventive touchscreen football game with light management features. AND you can share replays of your hoofs from the halfway line into the top corner onto social networks...iPhone / iPadYou Must Build a Boat (£2.29)There’s a lot of buzz building around You Must Build a Boat, and justifiably so: it’s brilliant. A sequel to the fun 10000000, yes it does involve building a boat – but also battling monsters, recruiting a crew and wielding magic by matching tiles – with no in-app purchases in sight.iPhone / iPadFallout Shelter (Free + IAP)Console game Fallout 4 is coming later this year, and a lot of people are very excited about it. To fill the months until then, Fallout Shelter is an intriguing mobile strategy game – a bit like an underground Tiny Tower, set in the world of Fallout. It’s freemium, but not aggressively cash-grabbing.iPhone / iPadHitman: Sniper (£3.99 + IAP)This is the latest game based on the Hitman console brand: and unsurprisingly, it’s all about the long-range shooting. There are more than 150 missions to snipe through, bagging new rifles as you go. A neat companion to the excellent Hitman Go game.iPhone / iPadTransistor (£7.99)Originally released in 2014 for PC and PS4, Transistor is a beautifully crafted action-RPG with a science fiction theme, as you battle your way through a futuristic city. It looks lovely, as on other platforms, but there’s real depth of gameplay and story here too.iPhone / iPadAngry Birds Fight! (Free + IAP)The latest freemium Angry Birds game takes its cues from mobile hits like Puzzle &amp; Dragons and Best Fiends, as you match birds in the bottom half of the screen to battle enemies at the top. It may sound cynical, but actually this is good fun.iPhone / iPadAlphaBetty Saga (Free + IAP)Saga? Yes, this is the latest from Candy Crush publisher King, and as the rest of its title implies, this is a word game. Your job is to link letter-tiles to make words as you work through more than 100 levels – with the familiar system of boosters and in-app purchases for when you get stuck.iPhone / iPadTerminator Genisys: Revolution (Free + IAP)Glu Mobile has had a huge hit with its Kim Kardashian: Hollywood game, but now it’s turning its attention to another aspect of Hollywood: killer robots from the future. This tie-in to the new Terminator film is an entertaining, guns-blazing third-person shooter.iPhone / iPadRobbery Bob 2: Double Trouble (£2.29 + IAP)The original Robbery Bob was a clever mix of action and strategy, as you snuck around a bunch of houses trying to burgle them without being caught. This sequel is just as fun: 60 new levels and lots of new gadgets to help you avoid the long arm of the law (or the sharp teeth of the dog).iPhone / iPadBattles of the Ancient World III (£2.29)Finally, something fun for hardcore wargame fans out there. This turn-based hex title eschews the usual wars in favour of conflicts between 1457 BC and 378 AD – think chariots and legionaries – as you strategise your way through campaigns for hours on end.iPhone / iPadThose are my choices, but what have you been impressed by on iOS in the last couple of weeks? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
What is Snapchat? A question asked by a growing number of parents over the past couple of years, as they noticed their children flocking to the social app. Now its chief executive Evan Spiegel has provided an answer.In asurprisingly-grainy video uploaded to Snapchat’s YouTube channel, Spiegel attempts to answer the question “what is Snapchat” with the aid of some old-school pen’n’paper diagrams.“Snapchat really has to do with the way photographs have changed. Historically photos have always been used to save really important memories: major life moments,” he said.Related:24-hour party people – why superstar DJs are all over Snapchat“But today… pictures are being used for talking. So when you see your children taking a zillion photos of things that you would never take a picture of, it’s cos they’re using photographs to talk… And that’s why people are taking and sending so many pictures on Snapchat every day.”Snapchat said in May thatit had 100 million daily users of its app, with 65% of them using it to share photos and videos. In his video, Spiegel tries to explain to parents how the app has seen a shift from social media sites like Facebook that they are more familiar with.“Now the mobile phone has really empowered this idea of instant expression, which is really showing someone where you are and how you’re feeling in the moment,” he said.“This is important as it relates to identity, because really that’s one of the things that’s at the core of social media. Accumulation was really about this idea that identity is everything I’ve ever done, so you have all the pictures of everything you’ve ever done, and that’s who you are as a person.“But instant expression changed that, because instant expression says my identity is who I am right now. It says I’m the result of everything I’ve ever done, but I’m not really the accumulation of all that stuff.”In the video, Spiegel went on to explain the “three screens of Snapchat” – its camera interface, its list of past conversations, and its screen for watching people’s Snapchat stories – collections of their snaps from a day in chronological order.Surprisingly, Spiegel did not talk about Snapchat’s fourth screen,Discover, which serves up videos and articles from media partners including Vice, Cosmopolitan and CNN, and which launched in January.The YouTube video is not the first time Snapchat has tried to talk directly to parents. In February,it launched its “Safety Center” for parents and teachers, outlining its community guidelines and providing advice on how to discuss Snapchat with children.
Hey there, it’s Wednesday.
Amazon.com is considering recruiting the man on the street to deliver packages to the rest of his neighborhood.The e-tailing giant is developing a mobile app that would pay participating members of the public to deliver goods, according toa reportin the Wall Street Journal. The low-tech meets hi-tech move is the latest in a long list of schemes to cut the costs of one of the most expensive parts of the Amazon business model, namely doorstep delivery.Amazon has consideredGPS tracking-enabled drone delivery(codenamed Bring It to Me) and sealed anexclusive deal with the Post Officeto deliver boxes on Sunday.The neighbourhood delivery program is called On My Way internally, and there are significant logistical problems to be worked out before it solidifies, such as theft prevention, protection against liability, and, of course, cost - big delivery companies and the Post Office are much more efficient than most alternatives.Amazon isn’t the only tech company trying to find inefficiencies in the delivery market: Uber’s same-day delivery program just reached its first birthday, but it, too, has had trouble. Starbucks and Appleno longer have contractswith the ride-sharing service, and talks with food-delivery services that might have used Uber have stalled, the Journal reported.The company may also face legal challenges to any plans to outsource delivery to freelancers. Last week, FedExsettled a case(after losing the initial appeal) alleging it had misclassified more than 2,300 workers as “independent contractors” and denied them full-time employee benefits. The independent contractor classification is vital to the “sharing economy” suite of tech companies; as that class’s constituent workers become savvier about how to deal with their employers, it will likely cost those employers more to retain them.Meanwhile, Amazon is employing another strategy to offset high shipping costs: the company has begun advertising on the outsides of its boxes. The neighbor eyeing your birthday presents may actually just be really intothe new Minions movie.
Donkey Kong wields a barrel that he lobs at enemies, Bowser spawns koopas to create his own mini army – it sounds like classic Nintendo gameplay, but this new outing for the much-loved characters is very different.In a deal announced today, the duo are to appear as collectible figures in Skylanders Superchargers, the latest title in Activision’s “toys to life” franchise. Arriving with their own vehicles, the new Skylanders will also function as Amiibos, making them compatible with a range of Nintendo’s own Wii U titles.Bowser and Donkey Kong will be available exclusively as a starter pack for the Wii U, Wii and Nintendo 3DS versions of the game. Both have been re-imagined for Skylanders in conjunction with Nintendo’s development team, with abilities that reference their previous adventures. Hammer Slam Bowser has his hammer as a primary weapon but is also able to spawn groups of koopas that can be thrown at enemies. Turbo Charge Donkey Kong, dressed in a flaming stuntman outfit, lobs barrel, but can also play the bongos to incapacitate groups of foes – a reference to the Donkey Konga game.As Superchargers introduces vehicles to Skylanders for the first time, both characters also get a themed ride. The Donkey Kong Barrel Blaster is a car that shoots spiked barrels that provide a hazard for enemies; the Clown Cruiser is an airship that references Bowser’s craft in Super Mario 3, and allows players to fire Bullet Bills, the familiar projectile characters from the Super Mario universe.“Nintendo and Activision have a decades-long relationship,” said Activision Publishing chief executive Eric Hirshberg. “They were one of the first companies we showed the original Skylanders to because we knew their console platform would be key to the game’s success. By the end of that first meeting everyone felt there was an instinctive connection between the world of Skylanders and the worlds Nintendo has created along the years.”On the base of each item there’s a switch allowing players to swap functionality from Skylander to Amiibo. The figures work in the same games as their current Amiibo incarnations, making them compatible with Nintendo’s own “toys to life” titles.“There was a real affinity in how Activision and Nintendo think,” said Reggie, Fils-Aimé, chief executive of Nintendo America. “This is a real collaboration, we did not simply lend our IP. The teams working on this had very close communication. If you look at the figures, of course, Donkey Kong has to have the red tie, but the jumpsuit was a collaborative idea from the two teams working together. The team at Vicarious Visions would come and show some of the move sets and our developers would say, ‘that’s just what we would do’.”The character abilities within Skylanders make multiple references to Nintendo history. As a third attack, Bowser is able to transform into Magma Bowser providing him with a flame attack familiar to fans of the Super Mario series. Donkey Kong’s special attack has barrels and steel girders falling from the sky, referencing the character’s original arcade game. Plus, as with all Skylanders in the Supercharger game, if the correct character is paired with their own vehicles, the duo is super charged with more powerful abilities. With Donkey Kong’s vehicle, the super charge effect sees Diddy Kong appearing in a side car.“It had to feel like they belonged in a Skylanders game,” said Hirschberg. “But at the same time it had to feel like an appropriate execution of these characters in any game. In every meeting we’ve had with Nintendo, there seems to be a lot of fanboy energy. There’s a creative chemistry.”Skylanders Superchargers is the first in the series of action adventure titles to feature vehicular gameplay. Among the 20 new vehicles there are boats, cars and aircraft, all with moving parts for play use outside of the game – there are also 20 new action figures, although all 300 current figures will also be compatible. According to Activision, there are no plans to bring further Nintendo characters into the game.Speaking about the toys to life genre Fils-Aimé said it was important for both companies to keep innovating on the genre to stop the concept from becoming staid. “Compelling gameplay is what’s going to keep kids and their parents excited about this category. How the genre continues to evolve is a conversation for the future, but as long as gamers say this is a lot of fun, we believe there will be lots of these figures in the household.”In fact, there already are. Over 240m Skylanders figures have been sold so far since the original Skylanders was released in 2011.
Google will start to pay security researchers who find bugs in its Android devices a reward of up to $40,000 (£25,600), in the first extension of its bug bounty programme to the mobile operating system.The company has also announced a new programme to ensure the security of third-party software on the Android OS by nudging developers to stop using programming libraries which are known to be out-of-date in their applications.“We see mobile becoming arguably the most important way people connect to the internet,” said Google’s Adrian Ludwig, the lead of Android security. “We’re seeing it providing two-factor authentication, as well, and the root of trust in the way that users interact.”And yet currently, “most security research is still focused on legacy systems. We’re trying to move that, by incentivising security researchers to focus their energy on mobile.” The new scheme will be called Android Security Rewards, and follows the success of a similar programme for Google’s Chrome web browser. In 2014, the company paid out more that $1.5m to security researchers.The decision to scan Android apps for software libraries which could pose a security threat was taken a year ago, Ludwig says, and will now be rolled out beyond its “experimental” introduction. “As part of the scanning of apps, we don’t just look for intentionally bad behaviour anymore: we’re also looking for mistakes.”The obvious example Ludwig gives is OpenSSL, the open-source encryption library that wasat the heart of 2014’s Heartbleed vulnerability.“A really obvious example of what we’re looking out for: including a version of OpenSSL that’s an old version. Starting about a year ago, we began scanning apps, and notifying developers if they have made that sort of mistake,” Ludwig said.“Our goal is to get to the point where there’s a common baseline. We want to put structures in place to help developers update their apps, so the quality of all apps rises.”Developers who want to claim Google’s bug bounty will be required to show vulnerabilities affecting the company’s two shipping Nexus devices, the Nexus 6 and Nexus 9 (owing to the fragmentation of the Android market, Google can’t verify whether or not bugs affecting other Android devices are the fault of the operating system, or manufacturer additions). The rewards are on a sliding scale, from $500 for a minor bug presented with no extra work other than identification, all the way to $38,000 for a severe vulnerability supplied alongside a proof-of-concept remote exploit and a patch to fix the issue. “Our goal is that this could be a full-time research and a very well-paid opportunity,” says Ludwig.A separate Google security scheme, Project Zero, has earned the company a minor amount of controversy for its practice of releasing proof-of-concept exploits for other companies’ devices. The project aims to identify previously-unknown vulnerabilities, and then disclose them to manufacturers with a 90-day time limit for fixing them. If no fix is forthcoming, the group will (and has) release the attack publicly, to spur companies into speeding up their security patches.But the company practices what it preaches: Ludwig says that Android vulnerabilities are also sought out by Project Zero. “If Project Zero identifies an issue, we’re given a deadline, and we operate within that deadline, the same as everyone else. We haven’t yet missed a deadline.“We absolutely believe in making manufacturers respond quickly, all those parties should be responding quickly.”
“If we do not reach our funding goal, Shenmue 3 will not go forward,” wrote veteran games developer Yu Suzuki, as he launched a Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign to make a new game in his pioneering open-world series.Less than 24 hours later, the game is most certainly going forward, as Suzuki sailed past what now looks like a conservative fundraising goal of $2m. At the time of writing,Shenmue 3 has generated nearly $2.2m of pledges on Kickstarter.Related:Pebble Time smartwatch raised $20.3m in Kickstarter crowdfundingAnnounced at E3, the new game will be released for PC and PlayStation 4, following on from Shenmue – released exclusively for Sega’s Dreamcast console in 1999 – and Shenmue II, which followed for Dreamcast and later Microsoft’s Xbox.Those games won critical acclaim for impressive graphics and free-roaming gameplay that was well ahead of its time. “Shenmue 3 will have familiar elements from its predecessors and new fight mechanics to achieve a new level of interactive storytelling,” promised Suzuki in his crowdfunding pitch.“Our ambition is to deliver a Shenmue experience that will draw in newcomers to the series and reward diehard fans with its deep story and rich gameplay.”Suzuki said that fans of the first two games have regularly asked him to make a third, including encouraging him to use Kickstarter to crowdfund the new game, to ensure it happens.“If Shenmue 3 was going to get made, I wanted to make it with the fans. Through Kickstarter, I knew that could happen,” he wrote. “Together, with Shenmue fans everywhere, I knew we could build the game that the series deserves.”This being Kickstarter, there are now some stretch goals to reach, if pledges continue pouring in. $2.5m will spark a pair of cinematic shorts based on the first two Shenmue games, then subtitles in various languages; a “rapport” and skill-tree system; and at $4m some new mini-games.Related:Sega Saturn: how one decision destroyed PlayStation's greatest rivalSuzuki has not ruled out releasing Shenmue 3 for other platforms. “Currently we are planning development only for PC (Windows) and PS4. Other platforms have not been decided yet,” he wrote, while confirming that original publisher Sega has granted a licence to use the name Shenmue.With a month to go in the crowdfunding campaign, Shenmue 3 has a shot at becoming the most-funded game in Kickstarter history – a title currently held byBloodstained: Ritual of the Night, which raised $5.5m by the end of its campaign in mid-June 2015.It is not the most crowdfunded game of all time, however. That would be Star Citizen, an ambitious space-epic thatraised $2.1m on Kickstarter in 2012but has gone on toraise $84.1m through its own website.
The pace of change in Moscow over the past quarter of a century has seen hundreds of the city’s buildings knocked down, taking their history with them.The buildings are demolished for various reasons, sometimes because they have been badly preserved and other times to make way for offices and other developments.A group of journalists in Russia have created a mobile game for theRussian news website Meduzato highlight and document the loss of heritage in the Russian capital between 1992 and 2015.The Central Dynamo Stadium was built in 1928 for the Spartakiad, which was the Soviet version of the Olympics. It was closed in 2008 after a farewell match between Dynamo Moscow and FC Tom Tomsk and will be replaced by the VTB Arena ahead of the 2018 World Cup. Photo:http://stroi.mos.ru/Underlying the game is an impressive database of more than 400 buildings lost during the period, with at least basic information about all of them including name, address and the dates of constructions and demolition.CalledArchanoid(it is based on a Taito game calledArkanoid, similar to the seminal game Breakout), it invites players to ricochet a ball against blocks to destroy them. Each of the blocks represents a lost building or complex, the details of which you get at the top of the screen after they disappear.The metal arch vaulting of the Kievsky Railway station, which was constructed between 1914 and 1917. The arch was renovated in the 1990s due to corrosion which worsened further before its eventual dismantling in 2004 - the vaulting has now been replaced by a new mental construction. Credit: Wikimedia CommonsAn encyclopaedia is available within the app giving all the information available on each of the buildings, including, in some cases, photos. Players may, for example, have destroyed the Voentorg art deco ensemble which was built between 1910 and 1913. It was destroyed in 2003 and replaced by an office voted Moscow’s worst building in a 2010 poll by Forbes.Another featured loss is the Bolkonsky house, which was the former mansion of Leo Tolstoy’s grandfather Nikolay Sergeyevich Volkonsky (1753-1821). In total, the game features 10 levels covering each of Moscow’s historic districts.The rewards players get for playing the game well are related to the context, too: if you destroy all the buildings lost during Yury Luzhkov’s 18-year tenure as mayor, the Russian politician’s famous cap is unlocked to mark your achievement.The Warm Trading Rows, built in the 1860s, were one of the largest trading quarters in Moscow. Some medieval buildings from the Kitay-Gorod historical area made up part of the site. Demolition started in 1996 so a car park could be built and 80% had been removed by 2008. Photo: Projector Magazine, V. Saveliev /https://pastvu.com/The game’s editor (and former editor-in-chief of Esquire Russia), Dmitry Golubovsky, said: “We’re trying to raise awareness, but in a new way – educate people, but also engage them in the issue on a new level.“There’s the gameplay, which we hope is engaging enough, but we constantly remind our potential users about the nature of this data, with a log of the names, addresses, and dates of real-life destruction of the buildings in each level, and more detailed information in the encyclopaedia.“The power of gaming as a tool of enlightenment and education is enormous. We’re just trying to use it, adding a bit of satire.”You can find the link todownload the game here.
Sony showed off a large collection of new games, gave new details on exclusive elements in some big games, and announced that its Project Morpheus virtual reality headset would be available next year.Beyond the Final Fantasy VII remake, andShenmue III Kickstarter campaign, here are the 12 things you need to know about Sony’s PlayStation lineup for the next year.Project MorpheusSony’s Project Morpheus VR headset will be available in the first half of next year.Photograph: Jae C. Hong/APSony revealed a few small bits about its virtual reality headset and Oculus competitor project Morpheus at E3. It will be available in the first half of next year, costing “several hundred dollars” and will have around 30 games, ranging from puzzle and relaxation games to a first-person multi-player shooter from Guerilla Studios.The Last GuardianThe Last Guardian will finally be available to play next year after more than five years of waiting.Sony re-announced the Last Guardian, the highly anticipated third game from the creator of acclaimed adventure games Ico and Shadow of Colossus, which puts you in control of a young boy exploring a ruin with the help of a giant bird/dog thing.Five years ago Sony unveiled the game at E3 for the PS3, now the company is promising it will finally be available to play on the PS4 next year.Director of the series, Fumito Ueda, will still head up the game despite no longer working for Sony.No Man’s SkyThe procedurally generated space exploration game promises endless worlds to warp between, find new life and blow up stuff.Photograph: No Man's SkyEpic space exploration game No Man’s Sky from British developer Hello Games was shown off, including battles, some identification of alien species and a good bit of destroying the environment – everything you’d want from a Star Trek-like experience to boldly go where no one has been before.The main selling point of the game is the sheer scale: endless procedurally generated star systems waiting for players to warp between and start exploring, all created by a 10-person indie developer based in Guildford.Horizon: Zero DawnMind out for robotic dinosaurs in Horizon Zero Dawn.Fallout 4 isn’t the only post-apocalyptic world waiting for PS4 gamers. A third-person roleplaying game from Killzone developer Guerrilla Games, Horizon: Zero Dawn presents a new world growing out of a destroyed old one where machines sit at the top of the food chain. The game features a female protagonist, home-made weaponry and the hunting of huge robotic dinosaurs, due out next year.Uncharted 4: A Thief’s EndNathan Drake’s supposedly last adventure.Photograph: SonySony’s highly anticipated adventure game series will have its fourth and supposedly final outing this year. Uncharted 4: A Thief’s End will feed fans more of the same with brawling, shooting, climbing and racing through city streets. Indiana Jones by any other name.DreamsDreamsThe latest game from Little Big Planet-creator Media Molecule is another grand build-your-own game. This time it’s less about small fabric worlds and more about creating things in a dream-like world.Pretty much anything can be created within the game environment including art, games, films and music, apparently.FirewatchThings get weird in the forest.Photograph: FirewatchDo you like camping? A weird story line? Then Campo Santo’s Firewatch could be for you. You play a man who takes a job as a forest lookout after his personal life has crumbled, with his only contact a female co-worker over radio when strange things start happening in the wilderness.Destiny: the Taken KingMore story, more strikes and a few PlayStation exclusives in the next Destiny expansion.As with the original game, the newest Destiny expansion due in September will have a few things exclusive to Sony’s consoles. PS3 and PS4 gamers will get to play an extra strike called the Echo chamber fighting Vex, some exclusive armour and a new exotic scout rifle with a sniper-like scope called the Jade Rabbit.Call of Duty: Black Ops IIIMore Call of Duty, this time with an exclusive beta on Sony’s console.Photograph: Christian Petersen/Getty ImagesActivision’s juggernaut of a first-person shooter, Call of Duty Black Ops III, will see new maps exclusive to the PlayStation 4, while the online beta testing of the game will also be limited to Sony’s console.HitmanA new world of assassination awaits.Photograph: Michael Nelson/EPAThe bald-headed assassin Agent 47 is back again, and similar to Black Ops III, the latest Hitman will run through a beta test of the game exclusively on the PS4 ahead of launch. Expect more violence and revenge.World of Final FantasyA Final Fantasy VII remake wasn’t the only news from the series. A game for PS4 and PS Vita called World of Final Fantasy was also unveiled for 2016, featuring a collection of cutesy versions of classic Final Fantasy characters. What they’ll be doing wasn’t really revealed.•E3 2015: Ubisoft planning ambitious social virtual reality experiences•E3 2015: Ghost Recon Wildlands will be Ubisoft’s largest ever open-world game•E3 2015: Xbox thrills with Lara Croft, Halo 5 and holographic Minecraft
Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatest Android apps and games, covering smartphones and tablets.All these apps have been released for the first time – ie not updates – since the last roundup. All prices are correct at the time of writing, with “IAP” indicating use of in-app purchases.You can read the previousBest Android Appsroundups for more recommendations, but if iOS is your platform of choice, check theBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundups. On with this week’s selection!Adobe Photoshop Mix for Android.APPSAdobe Photoshop Mix (Free)This is partly for fun, and partly for pro designers: an app to edit and share your mobile photographs, but also to transfer them to the Photoshop CC software on your main computer for further work if needed. It ties in to Adobe’s Creative Cloud subscription.Kamcord - Game Screen Recorder (Free)Twitch is all the rage for sharing live streams of gameplay on all platforms, but Kamcord is a different take on the idea. It focuses purely on recording your Android game sessions then sharing them with the world – on a not-live basis.Related:The best Android apps of 2014Monster Mingle (£2.29)Freshly ported from iOS, this is a colourful, quirky children’s app designed for pre-schoolers. It involves building monsters by swapping in body parts littered around its landscape, while exploring the skies and ocean.Dash Radio (Free)Getting out into the app stores ahead of Apple’s new streaming music service, Dash Radio wants to reinvent, well, radio. It’s a collection of more than 60 stations programmed by DJs (Snoop Dogg included), with the promise of no ads.Read our recent interviewfor more details.Flipd - Remove Distractions (Free)Flipd is an Android app for people with no self-control (i.e. the majority of smartphone owners) when it comes to using their device. It’s a productivity aid that literally locks your phone so you can concentrate on something else for a while.Lumo Lift (Free)Released in beta, this is a “digital posture coach” that also tracks your activity – you’ll need its companion gadget strapped to your clothing – with the ability to vibrate to warn you not to slump like a less-grumpy schoolteacher.Popcorn Buzz (Free)“The app that lets you talk with up to 200 people at the same time, for free”. Because this is something we have all been kicking ourselves about being unable to do, right? Oh. But this new app from social network Line could be useful for chatting to smaller groups of friends and family.APUS Browser (Free)The big selling point for this new web browser is its tiny footprint on your device: it’s just 0.6MB in size. Maker APUS is claiming that it’s not just small though: it’s pretty nippy too. It’s most useful if you’re on a cheaper smartphone and a slow connection, although Opera Mini is a tough rival there.Ramadan Legacy (Free)Muslims are preparing for the month of Ramadan, which begins on Wednesday 17 June. Here’s a new app that aims to be a companion for the annual event: a mixture of planning, information and social tools to complement the month ahead.Webmaker Beta (Free)Finally, something interesting from Firefox maker Mozilla: a tool that “transforms web users into web makers”, whether they’re creating photo galleries, scrapbooks or memes. Yes, this kind of stuff is handled by no end of other social apps, but the goal here is to make something more open.Tiki Taka Soccer for Android.GAMESTiki Taka Soccer (Free + IAP)If you, like me, grew up on the Sensible Soccer games, Tiki Taka Soccer’s pixelly graphics will give you a bolt of nostalgia. Thankfully, this is a worthy successor in gameplay too: an inventive touchscreen football game with light management features.You Must Build a Boat (£1.99)There’s a lot of buzz building around You Must Build a Boat, and justifiably so: it’s brilliant. A sequel to the fun 10000000, yes it does involve building a boat – but also battling monsters, recruiting a crew and wielding magic by matching tiles – with no in-app purchases in sight.Related:The best Android games of 2014Hitman: Sniper (£3.99 + IAP)This is the latest game based on the Hitman console brand: and unsurprisingly, it’s all about the long-range shooting. There are more than 150 missions to snipe through, bagging new rifles as you go. A neat companion to the excellent Hitman Go game.Angry Birds Fight! (Free + IAP)The latest freemium Angry Birds game takes its cues from mobile hits like Puzzle &amp; Dragons and Best Fiends, as you match birds in the bottom half of the screen to battle enemies at the top. It may sound cynical, but actually this is good fun.AlphaBetty Saga (Free + IAP)Saga? Yes, this is the latest from Candy Crush publisher King, and as the rest of its title implies, this is a word game. Your job is to link letter-tiles to make words as you work through more than 100 levels – with the familiar system of boosters and in-app purchases for when you get stuck.Final Fantasy Tactics (£10.49)Final Fantasy Tactics: The War of the Lions to give this its full title – a mobile port of Square Enix’s PSP game from 2007 which was itself a port of a 1997 PlayStation game. This is still an excellent turn-based strategy game, as you marshal your team and make the most of their special abilities.Terminator Genisys: Revolution (Free + IAP)Glu Mobile has had a huge hit with its Kim Kardashian: Hollywood game, but now it’s turning its attention to another aspect of Hollywood: killer robots from the future. This tie-in to the new Terminator film is an entertaining, guns-blazing third-person shooter.Robbery Bob 2: Double Trouble (£1.99 + IAP)The original Robbery Bob was a clever mix of action and strategy, as you snuck around a bunch of houses trying to burgle them without being caught. This sequel is just as fun: 60 new levels and lots of new gadgets to help you avoid the long arm of the law (or the sharp teeth of the dog).Alpha Squadron 2 (Free + IAP)If you’ve a yen for a space-shooter, Alpha Squadron 2 is an essential download. It looks good, feels fast, and presents you with plenty of varied enemies and environments to take on with your starfighter. Tutorials and its first mission is free, before you stump up to unlock the rest.Brickies (Free + IAP)In an app store awash with Candy Crush and Clash of Clans clones, developers taking inspiration from older arcade hits can feel fresh. That’s certainly the case for Brickies: a neat reworking of the classic Breakout / Arkanoid formula, as you smash bricks with a paddle and ball.That’s my choice, but what Android apps and games have you been enjoying this week? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
Ubisoft has thrown its hat into the virtual reality ring. The publisher behind multimillion-selling game franchises Assassin’s Creed, Far Cry and Ghost Recon is working on ambitious VR projects, it has revealed.At a pre-briefing before the E3 games conference in Los Angeles, David Votypka, the creative director of Ubisoft-owned developer Red Storm, announced that there are several prototypes being developed in various studios around the company. Votypka who studied virtual reality technology at university before working on formative VR projects in the 1990s told attendees: “VR is back, and it’s back for real. We’ve been exploring, figuring out what works and what doesn’t. We have now have three prototypes at E3 from studios within Ubisoft”.The first is Eagle Fight, a multiplayer flight-sim shooter built by Ubisoft Montreal, in which two teams of two players participate as eagles, competing in a capture-the-flag match above the streets of Paris. On donning the Oculus Rift headset, players get an eagle-eye view of the urban sprawl, their beak visible at the bottom of the screen. Flight is controlled using the motion sensors in the VR headset: players look up and down to ascend or descend and tilt their heads left and right to steer. It’s surprisingly intuitive, with quite complex swooping dives and turns possible and a rather beautiful sensation of flight.The controller is only used to accelerate or slow down and to fire a sonic attack that sends enemy birds crashing to the surface. There’s also a Pilot Wings-style fly-through-the-hoops challenge to acclimatise players to the controls.The next – titled Vaas VR – is a virtual reality take on the cinematic scene in Far Cry 3 cinematic where the player meets deranged antagonist Vaas as he explains the definition of insanity. On donning the headset, players find themselves facing Vaas as he delivers his chilling monologue. If you look down, your on-screen character raises their bound wrists and struggles to free them; you can also look around at the jungle and up toward a helicopter swooping overhead.Interestingly though, Vaas takes live cues from where the player is looking. If you glance away for too long, he stops talking; stare directly into his eyes and he becomes even more aggressive. Ubisoft has said that it’s experimenting with bringing more artificial intelligence and interaction into cinematics. It’s a weirdly intimidating experience, especially as Vaas leans right in to the camera – reminiscent of the sort of immersive theatre experiences put on by companies like Punchdrunk, where actors incorporate the audience into performances.Finally, Ubisoft also showed Raving Rabbids Theme Park Ride, a virtual rollercoaster experience incorporating Ubisoft’s loveable critters, as well as a motion seat. It’s the most visceral and motion-intensive of the demos, with a lot of swooping, stomach-churning dips – although Ubisoft says it is working hard to combat the nausea once associated with this sort of virtual experience.Votypka also revealed that his own studio has been working on social interaction in shared virtual environments for two years. “When you experience table-top games or card games with your friends around a table, the social interactions you have are way more interesting and diverse than anything you get in online multiplayer games – we wanted to figure out how to capture some of that. We’ve built a social VR protoype and played it with people within Ubisoft - the concept has proven itself again and again.“The concept I’m talking about is social presence. When you take a human being, give them VR hardware, network where they’re looking, how their hands are moving, their voice, and when that all syncs up in real-time, it’s pretty amazing and uncanny. You start feeling like you’re there with other human beings. But I don’t expect you to believe me, it’s something you have to try for yourself.”Votypka says the team has several social VR games in development and planned for full launch, and says that there will be announcements in the next few months. “I’m not talking about virtual chat rooms here,” he said. “I’m talking about games that are specifically design to have mechanics based around social cues, social dynamics and social interactions between players. These projects are just the beginning.”Ubisoft’s VR content will apparently be a mix of well-known brands from the company’s history as well as new titles. Votypka was unequivocal about Ubisoft’s approach to virtual reality, which is nearing mainstream acceptance via well-publicised headsets like the Oculus Rift, Project Morpheus and HTC Vive, but has yet to see a commercial release.“Our goal is to be an industry leader in amazing virtual reality experiences,” he said.
Hello!
Elon Musk, the man behind the futuristic spaceflight company SpaceX, the futuristic electric car company Tesla and, er, the payment company PayPal, is ramping up the focus on his third futuristic transportation obsession: the Hyperloop.Musk is setting up a competition to design a passenger pod to run in the Hyperloop, a low-pressure tube between LA and San Francisco which will use a railgun to rocket passengers between the two cities at supersonic speeds.Two new startups have already begun working on Musk’s concept. Hyperloop Transportation Technologies is trying to build a 5-mile test track, while Hyperloop technologiesis building hardware for the system.Ina statement, Musk’s company SpaceX said that “we are excited that a handful of private companies have chosen to pursue this effort … while we are not developing a commercial Hyperloop ourselves, we are interested in helping to accelerate development of a functional Hyperloop prototype.”In order to do so, SpaceX is planning to set up a competition to reward the development of those pods – using its owntest-track, announced in January– holding pod races for competing teams. The contest will be geared towards university students and independent engineering teams, who will be tasked with building half-scale passenger pods.Groups that want to join in will have to do so by September 2015, with the first “design weekend” being held in January 2016. The finished race will be held in June 2016.Musk first proposed the system in 2013, in a 57-page document which he described as an “open-source transportation concept”. The idea was to build the system on concrete pylons mounted in the central reservation of the interstate between the two cities, terminating in their outskirts.The proposal wasquickly criticised by experts in the field, who questioned Musk’s figures on the cost of land by a highway, the price of concrete, and the thermal expansion of steel. But in the following years multiple companies picked up Musk’s concept and developed it further.
More than half of online video service Vessel’s usage is coming from outside the US, 11 weeks after the San Francisco-based company launched its iOS app and website.The company has been pitching itself to YouTube creators and musicians as a “first window” for web video, promising to pay them more money than they get from their cut on free video services if they grant it at least three days’ exclusivity on their new videos.“More than 50% of our service is international already: non-US, and that’s a wonderful thing, especially for creators who have global followings,” Vessel’s chief executive Jason Kilar told the Guardian.“If they only earn revenue through advertising, clearly the US market is helpful – it’s pretty mature and advanced, and rates tend to be higher than they are outside the US. But if most of their consumption is outside the US, the advertising monetisation is quite different.”Vessel launched as a free app and site, although its long-term aim is to get viewers paying £2.29 a month for access to its premium tier, which features the early-access videos.Ingrid Nilsen, Shane Dawson, Connor Franta, Rhett &amp; Link, Epic Meal Time and Nerdist are among the prominent YouTubers to have signed up, while major labels Warner Music and Universal Music are also on board, as is US chat-show host Ellen DeGeneres.Kilar said that in the 11 weeks since Vessel’s launch, it has started delivering on its promises to creators that they will make more money from its “windowing” strategy.“We’re seeing some creators triple their revenues on a run-rate business compared to when they were only on the free, ad-supported services. One creator was making something like $1,800 in revenue over the course of a year on the free, ad-supported web from a single episode of their show,” he said. “Now, in the last seven days alone, the current episode from that series made $2,600 on Vessel. And now that episode will go onto the ad-supported web where it might make another $1,800 over the next year. They’ll go from making $1,800 [per episode] to nearly triple that.”Vessel has launched as an iOS app and website.It is still very early days for Vessel as a business, though. The company has raised $134.5m in funding so far to build its platform, and to guarantee minimum-guarantee payments to some of its key partners –recent financial documents filed by multi-channel network AwesomenessTVrevealed it has been paid nearly $550k by Vessel so far, for example.Attracting creators from YouTube is an expensive business, then, with many of Vessel’s current subscribers having taken advantage of free one-year subscription offers – one from when it launched, andanother from when DeGeneres joined– so judging its success in persuading people to pay will have to wait until 2016.Kilar, who previously headed online TV service Hulu, remains confident in Vessel’s ability to carve out a role for itself in the online video industry.“We looked at web video and said ‘oh, this looks just like movies in the 1900s, where there was just one business model – movie houses [cinemas] – but then evolved into sophisticated windows and different business models, to the point where you can now spend $200m on the budget for a film and feel pretty good about making your money back from all these different windows,” he said.“Television was the same way: it used to be just free-to-air broadcast, but now you have these sophisticated windows and business models. We think web video can be the same: if we can get out there and be very transparent about what we’re doing and why, and what it means and why it’s such a big moment for the industry, we think we can be someone that matters as a business.”
That news story you just read on your iPhone: didApplepay the editor responsible? Actually, from this autumn, it’s possible that the company did.Related:News outlets face losing control to Apple, Facebook and GoogleApple is hiring a team of editors to work on the Apple News app unveiled during the company’s recent WWDC event, before the app’s launch as part of its iOS 9 software later in the year.“The Apple News team is looking for passionate, knowledgeable editors to help identify and deliver the best in breaking national, global, and local news,” explainsa recruitment advertisement on Apple’s website,spotted early by 9 to 5 Mac.“These editors will help News users find the best and most timely coverage of major news events, while also managing select categories based on their areas of professional expertise.”Requirements include a bachelors degree in journalism, communication or a related field (“Masters preferred”) and at least five years of newsroom experience, including knowledge of “mobile news delivery”, content analytics and social tools.“Successful editors will be ambitious, detail-oriented journalists with an obsession for great content and mobile news delivery. They will have great instincts for breaking news, but be equally able to recognise original, compelling stories unlikely to be identified by algorithms.”By hiring editors, Apple appears to be taking a different path to direct competitors like Flipboard, as well as Facebook – which recently announced plans to start hosting news articles by publisher partners – which focus more on algorithms to decide what stories people see in their feeds.However, Apple’s emphasis on human curation is likely to spark questions about what will happen when the company – or competing platforms like Android – become the news.Tax affairs,human rights issues in Chinese factories,iPhone antenna issues,misfiring mapping software,leaked device prototypes,free U2 albums,games censorship controversies,child labour,surveillance issuesare all examples of Apple making the headlines in recent years in ways the company would not have enjoyed.How will editors employed by Apple treat these kinds of stories? And, indeed, how will they treat positive stories about the company’s rivals, fromthe launch of a new flagship Samsung handsetorAndroid Wear smartwatchto updates on the growth of streaming music services likeSpotifyandDeezer?Related:Strictly algorithm: how news finds people in the Facebook and Twitter ageIf Apple News was staffed entirely by algorithms rather than human editors, we’d still be raising these kinds of questions – as we would when any big technology company becomes a gatekeeper for news. Facebook and Google News are subject to similar speculation, for example.The simple answer might be that Apple can include or exclude whatever stories it likes in its own news app, with other apps (and websites) available on its devices to provide different perspectives.Still, regardless of who or what is choosing the stories in Apple News, if the app becomes a powerful driver of traffic and advertising revenues for publishers, expect more scrutiny of the editorial choices being made – and of whether there is a knock-on “chilling effect” on publishers deciding whether to run a story criticising Apple.Will that scrutiny make its way into Apple News? That might be an interesting interview question for the editors applying for the new vacancies.• The Guardian is a partner for Apple News and for Facebook’s Instant Articles initiative.
The fact is, it was like a scene fromW1A: a few weeks ago, I was standing in a breakout space in Broadcasting House, talking about technology. I’m not being funny, right, but I love the BBC. Even when I can practically hear David Tennant’s dry voiceover (“Naomi is about to tell the executives about how zombies can improve fitness”) all I think about the BBC is: yeah, brilliant. They produce so much exceptional content for so little money, they raise the cultural bar in radio and television, even in online provision, given the user-friendly brilliance of the iPlayer. So that’s all good then.Except it isn’t quite all good. The BBC’s coming up for charter renewal next year. Always a dodgy moment, especially with a Conservative government and a minister for culture who’s iffy about the licence fee. The BBC has to make a case for itself once a decade, and the time has come for that to include the largest entertainment medium in the world: games.Can the BBC make games? Of course it can, and does. Its “mission” is to “enrich people’s lives with programmes and services that inform, educate and entertain”. Its purposes include “promoting education and learning”, “stimulating creativity and cultural excellence”, and its means of output are “television, radio and online”. This country is a world leader in games-making talent. Online gaming can be creatively and culturally excellent. Games can inform, educate and entertain – and also engage, a pretty vital prerequisite for doing the other three. But right now the BBC just isn’t applying its values to games.For one thing, some of the games it’s commissioning just aren’t up to snuff. Realising that I’m potentially going to spoil someone’s breakfast in the Broadcasting House, I’ve looked at some games associated with the flagship children’s programme,Blue Peter. There’s aRed Nose Day-themedWarioWare-style game; aSport Relief jumping game;aBejeweledclonewhere you match three to rescue theBlue Petertortoise from a medieval tower. It’s possible I don’t followBlue Peterclosely enough these days, but I wasn’t sure what Shelley the tortoise was doing in a medieval tower in the first place. Half the comments say it’s boring. A couple even mention that it’s just likeCandy Crush.The thing is thatBlue Peteris excellent. It’s managed to educate, entertain, inform and engage young people for almost 60 years. TheBlue Petergames are competently made, yes, but not much more. They’re not doing anything new or interesting, they’re not anything that hasn’t been made better already in the commercial sector, there’s no ambition in them to think about what games could be, to excite young minds about the possibilities of games.This is also sadly true of theCBBC games creator– which again, is fun and competent, but seems to think that “a game” is a thing where you chase an object with another object and maybe are chased by other objects too. I’d call it an idea of “games” dating from about 1982, except even the Spectrum 48k had the subversive puzzlerBack to Skool, the originalSimCityand the art gameDeus Ex Machina.When the BBC does create interesting and ambitious games – for example,the fascinating CDX, a multi-episode mystery game about a Roman sacrificial blade – it has no commitment to archiving them properly, unlike with TV and radio. On the BBC site it won’t generate a code to allow for saves.Games are a vital part of our cultural conversation. Great games made by the BBC would be a unique opportunity to engage young people, but they’re wider than that. The BBC could commission exceptional, often inexpensive games that really push forward what the commercial sector is doing. Just like in TV and radio, the BBC should be ambitious about what games can be, it should be a model of how to commission, make and archive great work, it should have great aspirations for how to use small budgets in new ways, and use its licence-fee freedom to meet young audiences where they are. The BBC should be making games as good as the rest of its output and treating that work with the same respect. And it’s work like that which would keep justifying the licence fee.No equivocation. All together: yes, no, brilliant.
There are video game developers, and then there’s Blizzard Entertainment. Since its founding in February 1991 (under the name Silicon &amp; Synapse) the California-based giant has delivered hit after hit, and far more than good sales figures – Starcraft, boosted by its expansion Brood War, is the foundational title for eSports, while World of Warcraft is the quintessential massively multiplayer online game (MMOG). Last week saw the release of arena-battler Heroes of the Storm (HotS), an entry in a popular genre that – unusually for Blizzard – is also a little bit of unfinished business.HotS is a multiplayer online battle arena (Moba), currently the biggest genre of competitive gaming in the eSports scene. The idea is simple: two teams of players, each controlling an on-screen warrior (or “hero”), face each other in a small arena and must fight using melee weapons and spells, until the opponent’s base building is destroyed.The battlefield is split into lanes, with the armies – of exactly equal strength – marching from each side and fighting to a standstill in the middle. Dotted along the lanes are fortifications for each side – turrets, castles, walls – and in between them is terrain which the armies never enter. It is fast-paced, but highly tactical, with players able to fight directly or control AI characters named “minions” to carry out objectives. The Moba is effectively a game about momentum.The armies meet on the three-laned battlefield, each hero offering a range of special abilitiesAlthough HotS is Blizzard’s first official entry into the market, the developer kind of invented it. Kind of. The genre began with a player-made modification (a mod) for the company’s 2002 real-time strategy sim, Warcraft 3. Created by three fans, Defense of the Ancients (Dota) was so popular it resulted in several attempts to recreate the magic in a standalone release, the most successful of which are Riot’s League of Legends (LoL) and Valve’s Dota 2. Tens of millions play Mobas, and many millions more tune into video streaming sites like Twitch to watch them played professionally.The genre has its own stars, its own massive global tournaments, and, of course, it’s own jargon. The minions you direct around the battlefield are “creeps”, killing them to gain experience is “laning”, and when multiple players ambush a luckless opponent that’s “ganking”.The simple foundations can also lead to head-spinningly complex depths thanks to the range of possible heroes players can choose, all of whom have distinct abilities, and the dynamics of team play. This is not a genre for solo artists. Over the years since Dota, its successors have codified and expanded upon this foundation, to the extent that LoL and Dota 2 have extraordinarily steep learning curves and demand a significant time investment.If this doesn’t sound too attractive, welcome to the club. “The world does not need Dota 3 from Blizzard,” laughs HotS director Dustin Browder. “They’ve got a great game that’s like that. So if we’re gonna do something it has to be fresh.” HotS began as a mod itself, designed by Browder’s Starcraft 2 team to show the potential of that game’s community tools, before morphing into a full project – but the starting point was getting as far away from today’s big beasts as possible.“It was all about what we had played back in the Warcraft 3 days,” says Browder. “There were a tonne of Warcraft 3 mods of that ilk, not just Dota, even though that eventually became the king of that particular pack. Where did you think it was going, where did you imagine it was going? Not where ithasgone. When you think from an earlier stage you get a much wider spectrum of possibilities. The limitations of Warcraft 3 meant Dota has things like recipes [item combinations] – you couldn’t add more items, there were only six item slots, so you had to do recipes. That came out of a need and a limitation. So, when we’re doing this exercise of imagining what could’ve been different, we got some much more interesting answers, and where we thought it was going was not ‘better recipes’.”The mechanics that these limitations led to are much-beloved by the Moba crowd, and not without reason, but their absence from HotS makes it an experience that first of all feels new, as well as enjoyable and exciting from the first minute for any player. Yet despite jettisoning such baggage, HotS zeroes in on what made the original Dota work. “We loved the team fights,” says Browder. “We loved the customisation of your hero over time and the ability to grow them and make choices over a match about your strengths and weaknesses in the context of a bigger battle. We liked the way the game creates co-op play that separates you and brings you together, then separates you and brings you together again – so you know what it’s like to fight alone, and as part of a team.”Riders on the StormA major part of this dynamic in HotS is that teams level up and increase in power as a team, whereas in other Mobas players level up their characters individually. The latter mechanic, again much-beloved by some, seems counter-intuitive for a team game in that it forces every player to look after themselves first. HotS initially didn’t have team experience, but what the developers saw from players convinced them that this was an essential change.“At first on a map like Blackheart’s Bay when the treasure chests spawned you’d have people six feet away saying ‘I’m not going,yougo!’ because they’re afraid to leave the lanes,” says Browder. “So team levelling just opened up the game for us, it gives a lot of opportunity for cross-lane ganking. You wanna be Zeratul and roam and see what disruption you can cause? Great. It also opened up opportunities for support-only heroes like Lili who can’t fight worth a damn, but she’s a great support when working for the team and that’s all that really matters.”Blackheart’s Bay is one of the seven ‘battlegrounds’ that HotS currently offers, a huge departure for a genre where the most popular games have a single competitive map. “When we looked at our game we never imagined one battleground,” says Browder. “That seemed a limitation, again, of the Warcraft 3 engine – because technically modders weren’t making games, they were making maps so it had to be one map. So if you’re starting fresh, of course you do more!”The impact in-game is obvious. Each match of HotS is given a unique spin by the individual map objectives which rewards the successful team with minor advantages that, as the match wears on, can become major. This in turn feeds into the single most important aspect of HotS: the matches are short. In other Mobas you might sit down for a game and still be there an hour later. In HotS the average match is around 20 minutes long.“Twenty-minute matches is something we learned from Brood War, carried into Warcraft 3, and now into Starcraft II and Heroes,” says Browder. “We don’t have any proof that this is the magic number, it just feels good to us when we’re playing – five minute games you don’t really care whether you win or lose, whereas if it’s an hour maybe you care too much. Twenty minutes feels like a sweet spot, where you really want to win but it’s not the end of the world if you don’t.”Last year’s League of Legends world championship final attracted 27m viewers, a disappointment next to 2013’s 32 millionAll of the changes that HotS brings to the genre may seem minor. But consider that last year’s LoL world championship final attracted 27 million viewers, which was considered a disappointment next to 2013’s 32 million. It’s hard to make straight comparisons to the traditional sports world, because Twitch gives LoL easy access to a global audience whereas very few sporting events outside of the World Cup have comparable reach. For argument’s sake, however, in the UK, Andy Murray’s 2013 Wimbledon victory was watched by 12 million, 2014’s snooker final at the Crucible was watched by 6 million, and this year’s Six Nations showdown between England and France attracted a record 9.6 million. The point is not that Mobas attract larger audiences than traditional sporting events (Wimbledon will still be around in 50 years, whereas one imagines the same can’t be said of LoL), but that they attract such enormous audiences that any minor change to the rules is a serious matter for a lot of people.So the minutiae leads to the bigger question of whether HotS, excellent though it is, will succeed as a spectator sport – which is undoubtedly Blizzard’s intention. Browder was, after all, project director on Starcraft II, the grandaddy of the eSports phenomenon. Is designing a potential eSport simply a matter of designing a good competitive game, or is there another layer there? “It’s a lot of the same things we did with Starcraft,” says Browder. “But this is true of all games I’d say. You want them to be clear, you want them to be simple, you want them to be deep.”There are areas such as visual clarity, nevertheless, that are especially crucial for a game that wants to be watched on any number of screen sizes. “But when is that not the case?” Browder counters. “No developer wants their screen to look like a muddy mess. A lot of the things that work well for eSports are just good PvP [player v player] design principles to begin with. Brood War didn’t set out to be an eSport, there was no knowledge of eSports or what they would be or why it mattered. But the team set out to make something easy to learn, difficult to master, and clean and clear on screen. They made a great game. And look what happened when the community got a hold of it. Same with Hearthstone. It’s clear what’s going on – great design values.”Unlike many titles in the Moba genre, Heroes of the Storm features a range of maps, requiring different strategic approaches.HotS launched last week, and with that the development cycle didn’t end – but moves into another gear. “We’re growing the team and we’re aiming to move towards a three-week release schedule for new heroes,” says Browder. “That’s not a promise, that’s just the direction we want to go. We want to keep adding polish, new ideas, and a lot more heroes – we have 20 years of history to pull from.”Browder’s team may have created a great game but its future depends on far more than that: Mobas are huge investments and the field is cut-throat. Only last week it was announced that Infinite Crisis, the Turbine-developed Moba starring the DC Comics roster, is being shut down a mere five months after launch. Success depends on attracting a large audience, above all else, but also on whether Blizzard transitions effectively from building the game to supporting it in an interesting way (given the company’s past form, this is very likely). It also depends on whether professional players can make a living from streaming and playing competitively.And it depends on that most ineffable of design qualities – whether something that is fun to play for weeks and even months can somehow stay interesting over years. So far HotS has attracted both glowing praise and the odd bit of grumbling, with the latter almost entirely from fans of established Mobas. They represent an enormous, and in some sense captive, audience. “HotS offers a legitimate choice to players,” says Browder. “You don’t want to be the same as another game but the art’s different you know?”Nevertheless you wonder if the preconceptions will hurt, whether HotS will be able to attract the playerbase it deserves, and – perhaps most important of all – whether it can pull fans from the competition. Browder simply smiles for a moment. His team’s game has been released, and as far as he’s concerned, the question’s already been answered. “We’re getting them.”Heroes of the Stormis out now on PC and Mac
A leafy expanse in Southend-on-Sea might seem like the epitome of analogue attraction, but the modest appearance of Chalkwell Park belies a radical twist. For this summer its verdant fields will be turned into a garden of digital delights.The brainchild of “artistic laboratory” Metal, and dubbed “NetPark”, the project is bringing together an international team of artists, writers and musicians to unleash a host of virtual artwork within the park, from interactive stories to poetry and music. “The way that I think about it is [as] a 21st-century sculpture park where all of the pieces of work are in the digital layer rather than in the landscape,” explains Metal’s artistic director, Colette Bailey.“[The commissions] are there as site-specific GPS-located artworks that will reveal the park to you in a different way and also ask you to interact with the park in a different way.”To dive into this augmented world, visitors simply need to grab a mobile device, hook up to the park’s newly installed Wi-Fi, go to NetPark’s mobile site and tap through to the app that accompanies each work.Among the works set to be embedded in the landscape is an immersive audio game created by real-world game designer Rosie Poebright, in which visitors are submerged in the internal monologue of a fictitious character. “We put people into a place where they’re somebody else for a bit and they are hearing the reflective memories of that person which change according to where you go in the park,” says Poebright. The upshot is a narration that gradually evolves to reflect the visitor’s own actions and choices. “It is not as much taking control as you become the character,” Poebright explains. And that, she believes, offers visitors a chance to reflect on their own life choices. “I’m hoping that it is going to be a little bit transformative,” she says. “I want people to come away feeling differently about their day and maybe about their lives as well.”Southend’s many pleasures will be compounded this year.Photograph: Frank Doran/REXOthers have taken a more whimsical approach. Aiming to bring out the public’s playful side, digital artist Jamie Gledhill is developing an augmented reality experience that will explore the social history of the area by breathing life into the park’s trees. Selected specimens will not only be endowed with a virtual face, but a voice and personality to boot.But you don’t need the powers of Jonathan Strange to commune with these truculent characters. “Once [visitors] have found a particular tree, they will be directed to a particular feature on the tree and then they will have to hold up their device and basically scan that feature,” says Gledhill. With their throats cleared, the trees will launch into titbits from the park’s past with visitors left to guess at their veracity – among them the tale of a “Mediterranean monster” discovered in the park’s pond.The project will also feature music from Brooklyn-based electronic group Matmos, in residence at Metal’s Southend site this month, while local children have added their touch, with five primary schools teaming up with writers and illustrators to create their own interactive stories around particular locations in the park.Funded by a variety of bodies including Nesta’s Digital R&amp;D Fund for the Arts, the AHRC and the National Lottery and set to launch in September, Southend’s Netpark will have further works added over time, adding to the fusion of the natural and digital. It’s a juxtaposition Bailey and the team are keen to see catch on. “I hope people will see that it won’t be working in opposition to the idea of enjoying a stroll outside in the park,” Bailey says. “What we are doing is just adding an artistic layer to that.”
Ubisoft may well have just announced the end of the open-world action adventure as we know it. Ghost Recon: Wildlands, the latest title in the French publisher’s strategy-shooter series, is the first to take place in a freely explorable landscape. But instead of adopting the usual approach of providing a main through-line of story missions, backed up with side quests (as in games like Far Cry and Grand Theft Auto), Wildlands has no fixed narrative at all.Instead, players – taking part alone or with three friends – will be able to travel the world’s nine different environments, taking on missions in any order they want. There are no cinematic sequences to drive the plot. A range of land, sea and air vehicles including helicopters, trucks, motorbikes and speedboats are available for navigation, and the landscape – based around Bolivia – is scattered with towns and villages to discover.In a pre-E3 briefing, creative director Eric Couzian emphasised the sense of player freedom and environmental realism, claiming that every non-player character in the landscape will have their own motivations and agendas. “We want you to feel the thrill of exploration,” he said. “It’s a consistent world, and we wanted it to be as real as possible. We sent the team to Bolivia for two weeks to recreate it fully. We have worked with many experts, including military consultants and botanists. The world is alive: the enemies and civilians have their own lives, dictated by their jobs, the time of day and their faction. There is no script at all. We know that every player will have a different experience.”Similarly to Far Cry 2, it seems players will be able to meet different military and political factions in the game, influencing their allegiances and behaviours along the way. “The choices you make will have an impact on the world in the medium- and long-term,” said Couzian. “You can manipulate the balance between the factions.”It appears the game is taking a loose approach to co-op play. Participants can roam the world freely of each other, taking on different tasks, or meet up to collaborate on specific missions. Players can select their own weapons and vehicles, and then take on jobs at the locations and time they choose. “It’s new for the industry, a unique open world, military co-op shooter,” insisted Couzian.In a behind-closed-doors demo, we see Ghost Recon soldiers battling through a series of environments from jungles to deserts and bare scrublands. Weather and ecosystems add to the authenticity. “The core of the game is the idea of getting rid of the script,” says senior producer Nouredine Abboud. “The thing is, this makes it very difficult to create demos. Even as the game’s producer, and having spent three years working on the game, I’ve rarely seen the same situation twice. In general, I think games are going to go more toward [systemic design]. We’d have liked to do this years ago but it wasn’t possible. Now for the first time we have machines that are capable.“Does this mean we’ll see the end of scripted games? I can’t say that. But at the core of what we’re doing with Ghost Recon is the idea of putting the player back in control and avoiding a linear path.”Speaking at the beginning of the presentation, Ubisoft Montreal’s chief executive, Yannis Mallat, spoke about the growing dominance of open-world games, and especially games that combine systems, such as intelligent enemies, ecosystems, day/night cycles and seamless co-op to produce emergent play. “Five out of the 10 best-sellers last year were open-world games,” he said. “Established brands like Witcher and Metal Gear Solid have gone open-world. We’re going to see bigger and more complex systemic worlds.“We think the best games are built on solid systemic foundations. They will offer players an almost infinite combination of experiences.”In development at Ubisoft’s Paris office, Ghost Recon: Wildlands currently has no release date.
Traditional news outlets face an increasingly uphill struggle to make money as readers move to mobile devices, givingFacebook,GoogleandAppleincreasing control, according to a new international survey.The use of mobile devices to access news on a weekly basis surged in the last year from 37% of respondents to almost half (46%), according to a 12-country report by theReuters Institute for the Study of Journalism(RISJ).As smartphones and tablets become the devices of choice for accessing content, traditional news brands are being dis-intermediated by the Silicon Valley giants.The US firms are in a battle to be the top platform for news, with Facebook recentlyunveiling its Instant Articles service, and Apple announcinga revamp of Newsstand as Apple News.The report shows a 42% increase year-on-year in referrals from Facebook to the top 20 global news organisations, showing the increasing importance of social media in driving traffic and revenue.The proportion of all respondents that say they read or shared news on Facebook in the last week grew from 35% to 41% year-on-year. In the UK, this rose from 22% to 29% year-on-year.Debate has raged across the media industry as to whether partnering with new services from the likes of Facebook will be an invaluable traffic and revenue driver – or whether publishers will eventually find themselves increasingly beholden to third parties such as Google, Apple and Facebook.“Fragmentation of news provision, which weakens the bargaining power of journalism organisations, has coincided with a concentration of power in platforms,” said Emily Bell, director of theTow Center at Columbia university, in a lead commentary for the report.The report also found that although 70% of smartphone users have downloaded a news app, only a third actually use them on a weekly basis.“The reality is that only the most loyal users are downloading and using apps,” said Rasmus Kleis Nielsen, director of research at the RISJ. “For others, social media, messaging apps, email and mobile notifications are becoming an increasingly important route to news”.Kleis Nielsen says the relative difficulty in monetising content on mobile devices compared to traditional desktop websites, and the rise of ad-blocking technology, means that news brands will find it increasingly hard to make money.Almost half (47%) of the US sample, and 39% of those surveyed in the UK, said that they regularly use ad-blocking software to screen out pop-up ads and banners.The report also found that the paid-access model is facing issues, with only a small year-on-year increase in the number of people willing to pay.“A small number of loyal readers have been persuaded to pay for brands they like but it is proving hard to convert casual readers when there is so much free news available from both commercial media companies and public service media,” the report says.Of those surveyed, only 6% of UK respondents said they paid for some sort of news, from subscription to one-off payments for an article or an app, the lowest proportion of the 12 countries in the report.Of the UK respondents who do not currently pay for digital news, 75% said they never would, and the average acceptable price point cited by the remainder was just £4.50 per year.The report also found significant differences in people’s trust in news, with 68% agreeing they trust the media in Finland, dropping to 51% in the UK and just 32% in the US.
Minecraft is coming to the real world - and in 3D. Just don’t hold your breath.Microsoft delivered a convincing press briefing at E3 2015, revealing a muscular line-up of exclusive titles and features.The show was stolen by the appearance of Minecraft on the company’s Hololens augmented reality (AR) hardware. On stage, Microsoft Studios manager Saxs Persson, showed how the block-building game can use the forthcoming device, which overlays computer graphics onto the real world to create a tabletop Minecraft landscape that players can model and interact with, through voice and touch commands.No release date was given for the tech or the game, but Microsoft made clear it has big plans for both mixed and virtual reality. Corporate vice president and Hololens head Kudo Tsunoda also announced that the company would be working with Valve, co-developer of the HTV Vive virtual reality headset, to make Windows 10 the de facto platform for virtual reality (VR) technologies on the PC. With this and the recent announcement that the Oculus Rift VR headset would be shipping with an Xbox One controller (together with the ability to play Xbox One games streamed via PC), it seems Microsoft is making a land grab for both the VR and AR sectors, while competitor Sony concentrates on its own virtual reality technology project, Morpheus.Rise of the Tomb Raider artwork at Xbox’s press conference at E3.Photograph: Michael Nelson/EPAAway from futuristic immersion platforms, Microsoft revealed a generous range of new titles, showing footage from Halo 5, Forza Motorsport 6 and Gears of War 4, as well as the latest Lara Croft adventure, Rise of the Tomb Raider, which will appear first on Xbox One this winter, getting an as-yet unknown headstart on PS4. From Software’s Dark Souls III, another much-anticipated sequel, was also shown for the first time, with a spring 2016 release date.As anticipated, legendary UK studio Rare revealed its latest title, Sea of Thieves, a typically bright and brash multiplayer pirating adventure, described by studio head Craig Duncan as “By far the most ambitious game that Rare has ever created.” Rare also has a collection of 30 of its classic titles such as Perfect Dark and Conker’s Bad Fur Day coming to Xbox One.Elsewhere, Dean Hall, creator of cult open-world zombie title Day Z, popped up to show his latest project, Ion, an intriguing adventure based around deep space colonisation. Recore, a new title from Japanese game design legend Keiji Inafune and the team behind sci-fi classic Metroid Prime, is due in Spring 2016, and features two of this year’s seemingly on-trend elements: a female protagonist and a dog companion.There were some key service announcements too, not least limited backward compatibility with the Xbox 360. Classic titles will start showing up on Xbox One’s online store soon, but players who own the original versions will be able to download the digital versions for free. Xbox chief Phil Spencer showed the original Mass Effect running on Xbox One, where classic titles will be supported by new features like screenshot sharing and game streaming.Microsoft is also launching the Xbox One Preview service which allows players to download and try incomplete games before they are published. The concept is similar to Early Access on the PC games platform Steam. Players will be able to trial each game for free, then decide whether to commit to a purchase. Two titles Elite: Dangerous and Long Dark are already available and more are coming throughout the year.A large range of independent titles were shown to add some relief from a lot of shooting and explosions. Steve Gaynor of Fullbright showed its follow up to critically acclaimed exploration game Gone Home with Tacoma, and there was also a brief look at the fascinating Beyond Eyes, an adventure following a blind girl who must use touch to navigate the environment.It was a strong confident showing, then, with popular glances backward and some interesting platform exclusives. It will be up to Sony, holding its press conference later in the day, to up the ante, especially on exclusive titles. For the last two years the fight between Xbox One and PlayStation 4 has been built largely on technical differences and promise. Now, with plenty of titles looking to fully explore the capabilities of both sets of hardware, the real console war begins.
Autocomplete, we can all agree, is the work of the devil. Its potential for disaster is huge. It’s so dangerous, in fact, that the Bank of England has been forced to permanently disable it in its emails.The reason? You’re looking at it. Details of the top-secret Project Bookend – the bank’s contingency plan in the event of Britain leaving the EU, unknown even to most of its employees –were emailed to the Guardian by accident last month, all because someone at the bank became temporarily fat-fingered and didn’t notice the system was accidentally sending it to a newspaper. And now, to ensure that a catastrophe of this scale never happens again, everyone at the Bank of England has to laboriously hammer out every single character of every single email address they ever write.Related:Secret Bank of England taskforce investigates financial fallout of BrexitThere’s a chance this will dent productivity, but it’s likely to be for the best. This sort of thing happens all the time. Earlier this year, St Andrews Universitywrongly sent out congratulatory welcome emailsto almost 800 prospective students, including many who would be rejected, leading to one of them tweeting “I MAY KILL SOMEONE”. Two months earlier,Johns Hopkins University in the US did the same thing. Two months later, so didDrexel University in Philadelphia.These mistakes are always down to human error. My wife used to work as a web developer at a large charity, and quickly found herself inundated with the wills of total strangers, intended for the namesake lawyer who also worked there. And a friend of mine with a very similar name to his boss regularly receives all manner of sensitive emails dealing with the salaries or poor behaviour of his colleagues. It is to their eternal credit that both these people haven’t blackmailed their respective companies into oblivion. Yet.What to do if this happens to you? Several years ago,an ethicist told the New York Timesthat the onus is on you to inform the sender if the contents of the email seem important or urgent. Or just email them to a newspaper. As the Bank of England now knows, that’s a pretty nifty way of making sure that it never happens again.• This article was amended on 15 June 2015. The original referred to Britain “leaving the UK”. This has been corrected
Could emojis be the future of online security? One company is claiming so, suggesting replacing four-digit passcodes with a four-digit emoji string would be almost 500 times more secure. So should we ditch or pins for smiley faces?The British start-up at the heart of the claims, Intelligent Environments, trumpets numerous other benefits as well. It cites “memory expert” Tony Buzan, who says that an emoji passcode “plays to humans’ extraordinary ability to remember pictures, which is anchored in our evolutionary history”.“We remember more information when it’s in pictorial form,” Buzan adds.And naturally, anywhere the word “emoji” appears, the word “millennial” soon follows. Intelligent Environments’ managing director, David Webber, says the company “had input from lots of millennials when we developed the technology”.“Our research shows 64% of millennials regularly communicate only using emojis,” Webber says, “so we decided to reinvent the passcode for a new generation by developing the world’s first emoji security technology.”But can their claims actually be true? Is an emoji passcode really more secure than a pin?The simple answer is: yes. A traditional four-digit pin is an absurdly weak authentication system, offering just 10,000 variations (even fewer when you account for the fact that certain common combinations, such as 9999, aren’t allowed by most banks). That’s why ATMs eat your bank card if you guess the pin wrong too many times: if you were allowed to guess indefinitely, even a slow typist could access a stolen card in less than a day.That’s because a pin code has ten possible digits – the numbers 0–9 – and four places for those digits to go. Ten to the power of four (or 104) is 10,000, which is the number of possible pins.By contrast, the emoji passcode offers a choice of 44 emoji, and four slots, offering 3.8 million different passcodes (because 444= 3,748,096). It’s not quite the 480 times more secure that the company promised, because they assume that you won’t use the same emoji or digit twice in any one passcode, but it’s still a significant improvement.But don’t put all your investments in emoji-based security just yet. The fact is, pin codes are basically the worst authentication system known to man. Inventing a system better than them is like selling a home security solution and proudly showing off that it’s better than hiding the key under a flowerpot.For instance, an eight character password that only uses lower-case letters offers 208 billion combinations, making it 55,000 times better than an emoji passcode. And most banks would rate an eight character lower-case password as “bad” security. A ten-character password using a mixture of upper and lower case letters, as well as numbers and special characters offers 7510(that’s 5 quintillion combinations) – making it 1,502,456,572,870 times better than an emoji passcode.Of course, none of those offer the fun of securing your cash with the phrase “💩👏😈😻”. Just don’t expect it to be that secure.
All 28 member states of the Council of the European Union have to agreed to new European data protection laws that could see tough new regulations unified across the whole of the EU.The changes would allow for a pan-European framework for privacy and the handling of European citizens’ data, instead of the current scenario where data privacy is regulated by watchdogs in the country of operation within Europe such as Ireland.The changes were put forward by the European commission three years ago and form a crucial step towards a single digital union. The European parliament filed its agreement in principle over a year ago, but the Council of the European Union, where each country’s government has representation, has struggled to come to agreement.Latvia’s minister for justice, Dzintars Rasnačs,said: “Today we have moved a great step closer to modernised and harmonised data protection framework for the European Union.”The agreement comes in the last week of Latvia’s presidency of Council of the European Union. The negotiations going forward will be the responsibility of Luxembourg as it takes over the presidency of the council.Monique Goyens, director general of the European Consumer Organisation said: “EU laws are now lagging behind the pace of technologies and business practices. Our personal data is collected, then used and transferred in ways which most consumers are oblivious to. An appropriate update must put control of personal data back in the hands of European consumers.”“This new regulation is the opportunity to close gaps, ensure robust standards and stipulate that EU laws apply to all businesses operating here.”While some welcome clearer and more unified rules and regulations, lobbying, which has delayed proceedings, has shown that some aspects of the proposal have companies worried.Of particular contention is a clause that would allow users to sue companies who process data, such as cloud storage providers, as well as those that own it or collect it. Companies including Amazon and IBM have warned that it couldkill off Europe’s cloud computing industry.One-stop-shopMany US technology companies have based their European operations in Ireland, including Facebook and Google. Current laws mean that if one data protection authority clears a company’s actions and regulates compliance with local laws, informed by European law, that company can then operate in any European member state without the need to clear its actions in each country.The EC put forward new regulation that would toughen European law, which would in turn toughen data privacy laws in European nation states. But the proposal could also see the formation of a single nominated authority that could rule on large or politically contentious data protection issues.Facebook and Google are subject to both legal and regulatory challenges over data privacy. The latest action isa lawsuit from the Belgian privacy commissionwhich deemed that because Facebook operated an office within its country could answer to its regulation not just Ireland’s data protection authority where it is headquartered.“I am very content that after more than three years of negotiations we have finally found a compromise on the text. The new data protection regulation, adapted to the needs of the digital age, will strengthen individual rights of our citizens and ensure a high standard of protection,” said Rasnačs.The agreement will lead to a “trilogue” beginning next week between the EC, the European parliament and the Council of the European Union on each of their amendments to the EC’s proposal.Deputy commissioner from the Information commissioner’s office David Smith said: “It is encouraging that these discussions are scheduled to start next week, though it is likely to be well into next year before they are completed. We can then expect a further two years before any law is implemented, to give people time to prepare for the changes.”How tough the new laws and regulation becomes will be up for debate. The idea of a single data regulator - a one-stop-shop - for large issues has been popular in theory. What form that would take will be crucial for companies such as Facebook and Google operating in Europe.Under scrutiny are proposals regarding: unambiguous consent for any data collection, such as tracking for adverts; limits to the ability to use data for purposes other than those for which it was collected, such as profiling; and a strengthened “right to be forgotten”.The Council of the European Union has agreed new fines for breaches of EU privacy and data protection law could be up to €1m or 2% of the company’s global annual turnover. The European parliament would have them as high as €100m or 5% of turnover.•Belgium takes Facebook to court over privacy breaches and user tracking
Disgruntled Redditors have decamped en masse to a Swiss-based clone of Reddit called Voat afterthe site’s administrators banned five subreddits for harassing behaviour.In response to the deluge, Voat, which mimics Reddit’s design and layout (albeit using “subverses” rather than “subreddits”) was forced to ask for bitcoin donations to keep the site live.“We are sorry to see Reddit change like this, in this way, in such an accelerated fashion. We would have never anticipated such events,” wrote Atko, Voat’s founder and chief technology officer.“We are not ready for such a huge influx of new users and haven’t prepared for such a large and sudden increase either.”The site, which describes itself as “a censorship-free community platform”, has since started asking for bitcoin donations to keep the servers running.Among the subreddits banned from Reddit were “hamplanethatred” and “fatpeoplehate”, both of which were focussed on harassing and abusing overweight people, and racist forum “shitniggerssay”. Reddit’s admin staffemphasisedin a statement that “we’re banning behaviour, not ideas.”Redditorsplattypussummarised the rationalein the Out of the Loop subreddit: “As long as you can keep it 100% confined within the subreddit, anything within legal bounds still goes. As soon as content/discussion/‘politics’ of the subreddit extend out to other users on reddit, communities, or people on other social media platforms with the intent to harass, harangue, hassle, shame, berate, bemoan, or just plain fuck with, that’s when there’s problems. [Fatpeoplehate] et al. was apparently struggling with this part.”Related:Reddit users rebel over banning of fat-shaming subforumsMuch of the opprobrium from Reddit users has been focused on the site’s chief executive, Ellen Pao, who took over the top job in November 2014. In March,the site made the first overtures towards cleaning up its notoriously uncontrollable community, adding new rules to its privacy policy preventing the posting of “involuntary pornography”. Now that it’s tightened up its stance on harassment as well, Pao is personally in the firing line. New posts on the front page of Voat include the declaration that “I am friend-zoaning [sic] Reddit, soon to be my ex. Her mother Ellen is a crazy controlling bitch”.Elsewhere, Reddit has returned to normal. After a day of posts about the multiple bans, the site is now dominated bydiscussion of Bethesda Softwork’s upcoming post-apocalyptic video game Fallout 4.
When was the last time you read all the terms and conditions for a service you used? Have you everreadthe terms and conditions? Probably not.So why do we spend so much of our time ignoring the thousands of words of legally binding “end-user licence agreements” (EULAs, if you like) legally-binding contracts we agree to every day? Is it even possible to read the T&amp;Cs for everything a typical person does? Is there any value in reading all this anyway?“The biggest lie on the internet is ‘I have read and agree to the terms and conditions’,” says security expert Mikko Hyppönen. Setting out to prove his point, Hyppönen’s company F-Secure set up a free WiFi hotspot in the heart of London’s financial district in June 2014.Buried in the terms and conditions of the free network was a “Herod clause”: in exchange for the WiFi, “the recipient agreed to assign their first born child to us for the duration of eternity”.Six people signed up.“EULAs suck – we can all agree on that,” said Hyppönen. “They shouldn’t be binding, because nobody reads them. But from a legal point of view, they just might be.”Agustín Reyna of the European consumer-rights organisation BEUC told me why: “It’s a consumer contract. No matter what you call them, it’s a contract.”To get a sense of just how much legal chaff we’re buried under, I decided to spend a week of my lifenotchecking the box marked “I have read and agreed to the terms and conditions” until I had actually, you know, read them. Worse, I would do it retroactively, sitting down to read the T&amp;Cs of services I’d been using for years.The end results: I collected 146,000 words of legalese – enough to fill three quarters of Moby Dick, just to explain what I can and can’t do online – from just 33 terms-of-service documents. Each document only took me about 15 minutes to read (or, if I’m honest, to skim-read), but I still spent well over eight hours of the week just sitting reading page after page of dry, impenetrable prose.I swapped reading novels for 146,000 words of legal chaff, what did you do with your week?Photograph: Lasse Kristensen / Alamy/AlamyApple: out of date terms and conditionsThe worst day, as expected, was the first. My iPhone is also my alarm, which means that at 6am on a Monday, I was greeted by 21,586 words to read before breakfast. In deference to my girlfriend, who was still asleep, I also broke my rules straight away and turned off the alarm before settling down to read the iPhone T&amp;Cs.Apple may strip out obsolete parts in pursuit of simplicity, but that philosophy hasn’t reached its legal departmentGoing first with the iPhone ended up making sense, though, because in many ways Apple’s practices are emblematic of everything that’s wrong with the culture of mindlessly hitting “accept”.Apple may be famous for products that ruthlessly strip out obsolete parts in pursuit of ease-of-use and simplicity, but that philosophy hasn’t reached its legal department.The terms typically start with an introduction where every word is capitalised, because not a single lawyer cares about anyone being able to read their actual documents. The capitals are included because ofan American legal regulationwhich stipulates that certain parts of a text must be “conspicuous”. Since there’s no corresponding requirement that it be legible, the consensus is that capitalising the necessary parts fits the bill.Where Apple didn’t innovate, one company did: credit goes to music service Bandcamp, which explains, in its introductory paragraph, that “we’ve done our best to make it all go down smooth – you won’t find any 8-point type, or long sections of TOTALLY UNREADABLE ALL-CAPS intended to fulfill the legal definition of “conspicuous” (we’re pretty sure Your Honor will accept yellow, bold text instead).”Perhaps the best marker of how little Apple cares about the terms of service it requires its users to read can be found several paragraphs down the iCloud terms and conditions. (Incidentally, despite being broken into separate documents, it’s all-or-nothing when it comes to agreeing or rejecting the terms.)Under the heading “Google Maps Service” is the proviso that:use of the Google Maps service is subject to the following additional terms: Google Maps Terms of Service available at http://maps.google.com/help/terms_maps.html and Google Maps Legal Notices at http://maps.google.com/help/legalnotices_maps.html.That’ll be the Google Maps service which was famously dropped from iPhones in 2012, over two years before the debut of iOS 8.2, the version I am running.It seems that no one at all reads Apple’s terms and conditions – even people who work for Apple.Simplenote: a blissful 140 wordsThe rest of the morning wasn’t as depressing as Apple, though it was still terrible. Next up was Simplenote, a cloud note-taking service.Like night and day, Simplenote’s terms of service come in at 140 words.Sure, Simplenote only needs to cover a relatively simple text hosting and syncing service, while Apple’s cover a gaming social network, a music, app and video store, a voice-control service, and an operating system. But it’s clear that Simplenote actually cares about what a non-expert user who ends up on their page will see, and has strived to make the document as clear and readable as possible.Simplenote’s terms of service: day to Apple’s night.Photograph: Stephen Studd/Getty ImagesThe basic terms, in their entirety, read: “You are responsible for keeping your login and password safe. The Service should not be used to store sensitive information such as bank account numbers, credit card information, or passwords. We are not responsible for any information stored with the Service.”I was feeling good. I had barely finished breakfast, and already I’d read two sets of terms and conditions, and one of them was positively pleasant. Maybe the week wouldn’t be so bad?And then I went online.BT: they will pay up if I dieFor most people, a licence agreement for a broadband connection is more of a “real” contract than the terms and conditions for digital services they click but largely ignore. Broadband comes with a requirement to pay, early cancellation fees, and a credit check.All the same, I still hadn’t actually read my contract with BT, so downloaded a copy to read on the way in to work. I was already late because of Apple, and didn’t need to make things worse.The good news is that BT’s terms and conditions, freed from the American requirement for “conspicuous” warnings, is actually legible; the bad news is that it turns out that I have to pay them money until the day I die, and they aren’t really obliged to do anything in return. I may be paraphrasing a little.In a way, it shouldn’t be a surprise. It’s not like the company actually gives me good service as it is: I live inone of the worst constituencies in the countryfor high speed broadband, and on top of that, my flat is a new-build,notoriously overlooked by telecoms companieseager to make developers pay for the cost of wiring.On the plus side, if I am injured or die as a result of BT’s negligence, they will accept responsibility. Which is nice, because no other company bothered to mention this in their documentation.It didn’t help that I read the whole thing standing up on a packed Tube, squinting at the tiny writing on my phoneOn the minus side, while BT “aims” to provide broadband service, it qualifies that aim by stating: “We do not guarantee either the quality of the service or that the service will be available at all times.” The terms and conditions remind me that I can cancel within the first three months if the speed isn’t up to scratch, but beyond that, I’m not entirely clear what I’ve actually been paying for. Goodwill?It didn’t help matters that I read the whole thing standing up on a packed Tube, squinting at the tiny writing on my phone. After 6,000 words, and an hour-long commute, I arrive at work. And in the process of booting up a laptop, signing in to my work mail account (provided by Google) and opening Twitter, I commit myself to another 35,000 words of legal documents, and feel a little part of myself die.Modern life is rubbish part 16,784: reading BT’s EULA on a packed tube carriage.Photograph: aophotography.com/AlamyGoogle: actually in plain EnglishWhen I headed into the week, I’d expected Google to be the worst. After all, it’s the company that is the epitome of theinternet adage thatif you are not paying for it, you’re the product being sold. I was expecting byzantine documents, deliberately difficult to read to obscure the dastardly passage where they claim the right to sell my mother’s maiden name to Russian hackers for peanuts.Yet the 5,500 words of Google’s terms of service (including a separate but linked privacy policy) are actually surprisingly legible and sane. Faced with never-ending scrutiny, from users as well as regulators, competitors and the press, the company responded by providing plain English terms of service.The passage about ownership of uploads – always a hot-button topic when it comes to sites like YouTube which allow user-generated content – is clear and easy to understand:Some of our Services allow you to upload, submit, store, send or receive content. You retain ownership of any intellectual property rights that you hold in that content. In short, what belongs to you stays yours.A similar passage in Twitter’s terms is also fairly well written (for a legal document – this is relative), only tripping up when it attempts to list every single thing you could conceivably do online in one sprawling mass of verbs:You retain your rights to any Content you submit, post or display on or through the Services. By submitting, posting or displaying Content on or through the Services, you grant us a worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-free license (with the right to sublicense) to use, copy, reproduce, process, adapt, modify, publish, transmit, display and distribute such Content in any and all media or distribution methods (now known or later developed).Twitter's 'worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty free license' gives it leeway to do what they want with your contentThese companies have learned the hard way that just because no one reads the terms and conditions before they sign up, it doesn’t mean that no-one reads them ever. Indeed, Twitter, along with Facebook (whose 3,300-word terms and conditions I read as I prepared to edit the Guardian’s page), regularly has to fight back againstviral hoaxespurporting to reveal the social networks’ plans to steal everyone’s material.At the same time, the sites do benefit from a certain lack of legal understanding. It’s true that you “retain your rights” to anything posted on Twitter; but it’s also true that the “worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty free license” gives the company almost infinite leeway to do what they want with your content, regardless of the rights.ALL CAPS ARE MEANINGLESSBy the end of the day on Monday, I had done little other than read terms and conditions. Yet another huge chunk of Apple documentation accompanied my laptop, requiring different agreements for the operating system and for iTunes (20,000 words altogether); the requirements for Dropbox (1,500 words) and my Oyster card (2,200 words) were svelte in comparison, although both failed the readability test, with MEANINGLESS ALL-CAPS out in force.Note to legal writers – STOP SHOUTING.Photograph: Garry Knight/flickrStill, getting over the initial burst of agreements meant I could relax a bit into the flow on Tuesday, and find out a bit more about the legal background behind these documents. After, of course, reading and agreeing to the terms of service on the Guardian (6,900 words, pretty standard stuff) and Buzzfeed (3,788 words, ditto), just to leave a couple of comments on each site.What’s the penalty for breaking the terms?Some have argued that the vast bulk of legal verbiage encountered in the information age is worth little more than the pixels it is written on. Citing British common law, they point out that a valid contract must offer, at least theoretically, the opportunity for negotiation. End user license agreements - the rules that govern the use of software and even hardware which, overwhelmingly, has already been bought and paid for - violate that legal principle.If you hit “disagree” while setting up an iPhone, for instance, it doesn’t call up an Apple lawyer and offer you the opportunity to renegotiate the terms under which you use the iTunes Store. Instead, it simply bounces you back to the page before, and waits for you to try again.The argument that such documents have little strength is reinforced by the rarity of them ever affecting court cases. By and large, the penalty for breaking the terms and conditions of a service is being thrown off it: losing a Twitter account, for instance. While having clearly laid-out terms and conditions helps clarify things for both sides in the event of unpleasantness, it’s not actually necessary for that tier of enforcement.A private business is allowed to stop serving a customer for pretty much any reason it likes (although not if the EU has its way), and they have little recourse. But in the internet world, that’s pretty hard on consumers who have to choose between a handful of all-powerful companies that dominate consumer electronics, digital services and retail.Has any company ever enforced an end user agreement?More serious enforcement of the terms and conditions tends to be done through other legal mechanisms. In 2006, video game developers Blizzard sued MDY, a company which made software that let users cheat in World of Warcraft, Blizzard’s bestselling massively-multiplayer online game. The case alleged that using the software, called Glider, violated Blizzard’s terms of service.Two years later, however, and Blizzard won a summary judgement based largely on a very different legal argument. The company’s copyright had been infringed when Glider had let players cheat at the game; and the way MDY had circumvented its anti-cheating software also meant it had illegally broken copy protection. Two years after that, many of the rulings were reversed at appeal, but the judgement that MDY illegally broke copy protection stood.The court case did, however, reaffirm one crucial aspect of the law that surrounds EULAs: you are not the owner of software you buy. Instead, you are merely a licensee, and that licence can, and most likely does, come with conditions.Just last month, we saw that taken to its obvious end point as Microsoft sought to enforce a contract signed with testers for its upcoming game Gears of War. The testers hadleaked information about the game, breaking the agreement they’d make with Microsoft. The company’s response? It banned the leakers from Xbox Live, the online service required to use a vast array of the console’s features, permanently.It even temporarily blocked use of their consoleoffline –something that was well within its rights because, as the testing service explained in a letter its testers, the leak broke the terms and conditions. “The nature of the leak having had occurred through Xbox One, actually also went against the Microsoft EULA, which is agreed upon when creating an Xbox LIVE account, or any other type of Microsoft account,” the company, VMC, wrote.As I discovered on Tuesday evening, Sony’s Playstation has similar language. I should have known I wouldn’t be allowed to relax, even in my own home. Sitting down to play some video games required three separate sets of terms and conditions, for the console itself, the online service attached to it, and the specific game, Bungie’s Destiny, that I wanted to play.Unwind in front of the Playstation – after the small matter of 20,000 words of legalese.Photograph: Thomas Peter/REUTERSAnd sure enough, if Sony discovers that I have violated any term of its collective 20,000 words of legal agreements, which I and perhaps three other people in the world have read in their totality, the company reserves the right to:take any action to protect its interests such as disabling access to or use of some or all System Software, disabling use of this PS4 system online or offline, termination of your access to PSN, denial of any warranty, repair or other services provided for your PS4 system, implementation of automatic or mandatory updates or devices intended to discontinue unauthorized use, or reliance on any other remedial efforts as reasonably necessary to prevent the use of modified or unpermitted use of System Software.In other words, break rules you don’t know about, and Sony reserves the right to turn your £350 console into a brick. And those rules are ridiculously broad.If you don’t install the most recent version of the system software as soon as you reasonably can, you’ve broken the agreement. If you “lease, rent, sublicense, publish, modify, patch, adapt or translate” the PS4’s software, you’ve broken the agreement. If you “use any … modified hardware” with the PS4, you’ve broken the agreement.Sony doesn't intend to go around bricking users’ consoles – but if they want to, they are within their rights to do soAs with so many of these rules and regulations, it’s not that Sony intends to go around bricking users’ consoles; but if they want to, they are perfectly within their rights to do so.And, naturally, the company does not provide any promise that the software or hardware will work or do what it says it will do, but it does require access to your personal information including your IP address and console ID for marketing purposes. And no, you can’t complain. It says so in capital letters.While licence agreements are enforceable contracts, as the BEUC’s Agustín Reyna points out, it is possible for them to go too far even for the courts. “In European law and also at national levels, we [have] what’s called ‘unfair terms legislations’,” he says. If a given contract has unfair terms, “the judge can do a kind of balancing test and see whether the terms are unfair. Not everything that is in the contract will be enforceable.”In fact, one of the big wins in recent years for consumer rights in Europe was against Sony. “A couple of years ago there was a case by the Norwegian consumer council, in relation to the Playstation,” Reyna says. “In the terms of the licence there were clauses allowing Sony to automatically update or even erase operating systems that were not those provided by Sony.”What’s more, it was possible to install other operating systems on the console, including the open source operating system Linux. But that too “was prevented by Sony in the terms of the license. So the Norwegian consumer council took them before the ombudsman”, Reyna says.After ploughing through the Sony terms of service, the best I can say aboutDestiny’s EULA is that it was short. Just 2,000 words meant that I finished it before bedtime, hoping I’d be able to play on Wednesday.I did not play Destiny on WednesdayJust halfway through the week, but significantly more than halfway through the legal agreements I would end up having to read, I began to run out of energy. I found myself purposefully changing my behaviour so as to not have to read any more EULAs. I’d already agreed to the Playstation’s terms of service; I wasn’t going to read the one for Valve’s Steam just so that I could play PC games in the same week.But still they kept coming: Netflix (4,000 words, and starts off by offering false hope with a cheery, human, “Welcome to Netflix!”, before descending into grey legalistic mush); Apple TV (another 4,000 words, and as bad as the previous Apple agreements); Storify (5,300 words, again introduced with a “Thanks for using Storify!”, again sapping my will to live); and Bandcamp, with its 7,100 word, over-long EULA saved by being broken up with lime-green text instead of block-capitals.I didn’t manage to play Destiny on Wednesday - I just read legal text.On Thursday, I was mercifully out of the house in the evening. Say what you will about the scourge of drinking, but no pub I’ve been to demands you return your pints if you don’t obey their rules. Andboard and card gameshave not yet followed video games into the requiring arcane license agreements before you can play them with your friends.The pub: safe from the tyranny of license agreement – for now.Photograph: AlamyBy the time I hit Friday, I had narrowed the pool sufficiently that only two more EULAs crossed my radar: comics app Comixology, and mobile payment service Yoyo. Both had thousands of words of terms and conditions, though without any nasty surprises, and one even offered me £5 of free coffee at work for signing up. But even though I knew it was over, I was broken.The problem: there’s no negotiating powerThe problem is that reading the terms and conditions simply doesn’t help. Sure, you find out how pitifully small your rights are compared to those that even a medium-sized company will reserve when you use its product. But the issue isn’t just one of obscurity: it’s also a problem with the power relationship. With no negotiating power, it ends up being mostly depressing reading.Finding out that Sony can brick my console at will if they decide I haven’t downloaded the software update quickly enough doesn’t give me any power to fight back. I can’t offer them £50 extra for a console that doesn’t come with that clause, nor can I jump ship to a competitor with better terms – because one doesn’t exist.A glimmer of hope exists in the world of social media, where the worst of T&amp;C over-reach has, occasionally, been defeated by user revolt. In 2012, Instagram, then newly acquired by Facebook,changed its termsto allow the use of photos uploaded to the website for advertising purposes (without paying the photographer). Itsparked outrage, and eventually resulted in the company updating the terms to clarify what rights it was, and was not, requesting.It was a rare example of a company demanding the broadest possible legal interpretation of what it intended to do and was forced back into clearer, narrower terms.There are groups fighting for a world with clearer language, and narrower terms. Agustín Reyna, of BEUC, is one: “Of course consumers have to be aware what they’re signing into. The problem is that one side has to work on the transparency of these terms. You cannot expect that the consumer will spend 20 minutes reading the terms and conditions of a specific service.”In general, reading the terms and conditions won’t be as exhausting as my week was. You don’t have to do it all in one go, after all. But it will likely end up being as pointless. Are you really going to leave Facebook if it is a little more aggressive about the rights they claim? After all these years? Is that the hill you’re going to die on?Reyna, however, has hope. “To be honest, I’m more optimistic. I think that it will improve with time, because at the end of the day it’s a matter of consumer trust: companies won’t gain consumer trust and confidence if they don’t display clearer terms of use about what is behind the service as such, especially when we see that all these consumer concerns about privacy issues are going up.”In the meantime, though, my advice is this: carry on not reading the terms and conditions. Hope someone with more time, a better legal education, or a weird fetish for huge chunks of block capitals, does it instead. And just hope you don’t sign away your first-born in the meantime.
The Belgian privacy commission is taking Facebook to court for its alleged “trampling” over Belgian and European privacy law.The lawsuit will be heard in a Brussels court on Thursday after a report andan opinion publishedby the Belgian privacy watchdog thatdetailed Facebook’s alleged breachesof European privacy law, including the tracking of non-users and logged out users for advertising purposes.Facebook treats its users’ private lives without respect and that needs tackling, according to Willem Debeuckelaere, president of the Belgian privacy commission, who said at the time of the report that it was “make or break time”.The privacy commission has no power to fine Facebook, butthreatened legal actionbacked by the Belgian prosecution service should the US-owned social network fail to address the report’s concerns. That threat has now been carried out.Imposing recommendations“It’s not because we want start a lawsuit over this, but we can not continue to negotiate through other means,” Debeuckelaeretold Belgian news DeMorgen which broke the news.“We want a judge to impose our recommendations. These recommendations are chiefly aimed at protecting internet users who are not Facebook members,” he said.A Facebook spokesperson said: “We were surprised and disappointed that, after the [Belgium privacy commission] had already agreed to meet with us on the 19 June to discuss their recommendations, they took the theatrical action of bringing Facebook Belgium to court on the day beforehand.They added: “Although we are confident that there is no merit to the [Belgium privacy commission]’s case, we remain happy to work with them in an effort to resolve their concerns, through a dialogue with us at Facebook Ireland and with our regulator, the Irish data protection commissioner.”The outcome of the case could result in similar lawsuits in Europe, should the judge find in the Belgian privacy commission’s favour. A Dutch court recently ruled that Facebook’s operations in the Netherlands were not responsible for data protection issues, with the responsibility lying with Facebook in Ireland.Tracking users, non-users and logged out users without consentAccording to the report on which the commission is now acting, Facebook has been tracking users on a long-term basis who visit any page – be it a fan page, profile or any other portion of the site that does not require a Facebook account to visit – belonging to the Facebook.com domain.The privacy commission’s opinionpublished in Maymade it clear that Facebook should discontinue such tracking and seek explicit consent from users before conducting tracking. Facebook’s current measures of seeking consent were deemed insufficient putting it in breach of EU data protection laws.Facebook said at the time of the report that it was regulated by the Irish data protection commissioner, as it operates within Europe from Ireland, and that it would review the Belgian report and opinion with its Irish regulators.The social network is facing several battles within Europe over privacy.The European commission recently warned that EU citizens shouldclose their Facebook accountsif they want to keep their information private from US security services, after finding that current Safe Harbour legislation does not protect citizen’s data.Facebook was also recently ordered by a Vienna court to respond to a class action data privacy lawsuit that was filed against Facebook in Austria by privacy activist and lawyer Max Schrems, which isseeking damages of €500(£397) per plaintiff for alleged data protection violations.•Leave Facebook if you don’t want to be spied on, warns EU•Facebook ‘tracks all visitors, breaching EU law’
Sorry everyone, I literally just woke up, at 3am in Los Angeles, and thought “oh no, I forgot Chatterbox!”
Jurassic World has made a big splash at the box office, grossing a record $511m during its opening weekend. But it’s also proving popular on YouTube.Related:Minecraft YouTube videos were watched 3.9bn times in MarchUniversal Pictures has teamed up with British YouTuber Daniel Middleton – star of YouTube channelThe Diamond Minecart– to sponsor a video set in a Minecraft version of the film’s theme park.The17-minute videosees Middleton and his Dr Trayaurus companion exploring Jurassic World – complete with huge dinosaurs – in what’s billed as a “custom mod adventure”, with links for fans to download the necessary files for their own use.It’s a canny move for Universal Pictures, with The Diamond Minecart one of the most popular channels on YouTube. Middleton has accumulated nearly 6.6 million subscribers and 3.3bn total views since launching his channel in 2012.In April 2015 alone,The Diamond Minecart generated 290.4m views, making it the second biggest games channel on YouTube behind PewDiePie with his 351.8m views.Both channels, along with fellow top-10 YouTube gamers Markiplier, Stampy and Vegetta Gaymer, are signed to multi-channel network (MCN) Maker Studios, which is striking an array of deals with brands to boost its creators’ incomes beyond the money they make from YouTube advertisements around their videos.Related:YouTube backs digital star Stampy's new Minecraft show Wonder QuestMaker also launcheda smartphone and tablet app for The Diamond Minecartin November 2014, shortly after Middleton signed up with the company that August.“He’s one of the most extraordinary storytellers creating short-form video today, and we look forward to helping him grow his creative vision in the years to come,” said the company’s chief audience officer Chris Williams at the time.Like Stampy – who recentlylaunched a new educational show called Wonder Questbacked by YouTube – The Diamond Minecart is aimed at a younger audience of Minecraft-loving children.All these channels are likely to benefit from the launch this summer ofYouTube Gaming, a standalone site and app focusing on games channels that has just been announced by YouTube.
In the endless prairie in which the strawmen crowd, thousands of acres are populated by the one of the laziest, and yet most excitingly topical sorts of strawman: the Internet Utopian.The Internet Utopian has just readJohn Perry Barlow’s Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspace, a beautiful piece of rhetoric that articulates a vision for a society of the mind, out of reach of the most venal impulses of the “governments of the industrial world … weary giants of flesh and steel,” where freedom is more universal, and co-operation simpler, than at any time in the past.The intermediate life-stage of the Internet Utopian is the startup person – hustling, greedy and grasping. The sort of person who’d createan auction site for parking places.And the fully mature Utopian is a captain of industry, running one of the new internet monopolies, with hundreds of millions – billions! – of users ripe to be spied upon, manipulated, and sucked dry, all in the name of “disruption” and other empty buzzwords.I have been among the Internet Utopians for most of my life. I read Barlow, dropped out of university, and became a software developer, then a web developer, then a startup founder. I’m here to tell you it’s time to torch the strawmen, burn down the whole field, and give Internet Utopians the credit they’re due.Start with Barlow. He didn’t write the Declaration because he couldn’t imagine how the state could possibly coerce people through the internet. He wrote it in response toa series of hamfisted FBI raidsand the warrantless seizure of a public electronic mail server. The Declaration isn’t a statement of immutable fact, it’s a call to arms – a description of what we should build, not what will come automatically.But Barlow wasn’t finished. The Declaration was part of a wider political project, undertaken by Barlow, John Gilmore, and Mitch Kapor, who foundedthe Electronic Frontier Foundation, a civil liberties organisation which turns 25 this year (I’ve worked for them, off and on, for 14 years now). EFF’s mission was to use law, policy, markets, code and norms to insist that the liberties that mattered to us in the pre-internet world should remain intact as we moved online.EFF haswon a great many battlessince then, as have its sister organisations, like theUK Open Rights Group, which I co-founded a decade ago.Why do people work for these organisations? Because they are utopians. Not utopians in the sense of believing that the internet is predestined to come out all right no matter what. Rather, we are utopians because, on the one hand, we are terrified of what kind of surveillance and control the internet enables, and because, on the other hand, we believe that the future is up for grabs: that we can work together to change what the internet is and what it will become. Nothing is more utopian than a belief that, when things are bad, we can make them better.The internet has become the nervous system of the 21st century, wiring together devices that we carry, devices that are in our bodies, devices that our bodies are in. It is woven into the fabric of government service delivery, of war-fighting systems, of activist groups, of major corporations and teenagers’ social groups and the commerce of street-market hawkers.There are many fights more important than the fight over how the internet is regulated. Equity in race, gender, sexual preference; the widening wealth gap; the climate crisis – each one far more important than the fight over the rules for the net.Except for one thing: the internet is how every one of these fights will be won or lost. Without a free, fair and open internet, proponents of urgent struggles for justice will be outmaneuvered and outpaced by their political opponents, by the power-brokers and reactionaries of the status quo. The internet isn’t the most important fight we have; but it’s the most foundational.Internet companies are the same as every other kind of company. They’re transhuman organisms created by acolytes of the cult of fiduciary duty, legally enjoined from treating human beings with empathy, with the same relationship to humans that we have to our gut flora.But internet companies are also different from other kinds of companies. That’s because much of what internet companies do remains esoteric and highly skilled. Internet companies are where de-skilling takes place, but the people doing the deskilling are, necessarily, highly skilled. Tech giants have such a tight labour market that theyillegally colluded, forming secret no-poaching agreements to stop wages from being driven out of the stratosphere and into lunar orbit.Here’s where it gets interesting. Adopting a corporate motto like “don’t be evil” attracts a certain number of highly skilled, difficult-to-replace key staff who sign on because they don’t want to be evil. Whether or not the top management believe in the principle (and whether, if they do, they’re willing to sideline it in the pursuit of profit), there are staffers who can’t be easily replaced who will make a lot of noise when the firm does something suspect. Some of them even quit, and often as not walk straight into another job – a luxury enjoyed by tech employees in white-hot labour markets.This doesn’t make companies incapable of ignoring their employees (or their employees’ ethics). Companies can and do bulldoze their employees’ objections all the time. But they do it more in sectors where they can easily replace alienated staffers than they do in sectors where an employee who ragequits can leave you in dire straits.That’s what Internet Utopians do: they create a normative discussion about the dangers of an “evil” internet and the power of a good one, in Silicon Valley and its many global offshots. This is necessary, but insufficient, to fixing the net’s woes.Internet Utopians know this. That’s why they campaign for legal reform; that’s why they liberate data; that’s why they form mass movements to stop the drive to kill net neutrality or impose mass surveillance.The questions of the day are “How do we save the planet from the climate crisis?” and “What do we do about misogyny, racial profiling and police violence, and homophobic laws?” and “How do we check mass surveillance and the widening power of the state?” and “How do we bring down autocratic, human-rights-abusing regimes without leaving behind chaos and tragedy?”Those are the questions.But the internet is the answer. If you propose to fix any of these things without using the internet, you’re not being serious. And if you want to free the internet to use in all those fights, there’s a quarter century’s worth of Internet Utopians who’ve got your back.
Facebook has announced the latest change to the algorithm governing what stories its users see in their news feeds on the social network.The company says it hopes to help more “meaningful” stories bubble up in people’s feeds by looking beyond metrics like comments, likes and shares when judging what’s interesting.“These factors don’t always tell us the whole story of what is most meaningful to you,” claimed Facebook software engineers Ansha Yu and Sami Tasin a blog postthat cited recent market research conducted by Facebook.“We learned that in many cases, just because someone didn’t like, comment or share a story in their News Feed doesn’t mean it wasn’t meaningful to them,” they wrote.“There are times when, for example, people want to see information about a serious current event, but don’t necessarily want to like or comment on it.”The engineers stressed that the algorithm is doing more than simply measuring how many seconds people spend looking at a story, noting that a 10-second period could be enjoyment, or simply a slow internet connection.“We’ve discovered that if people spend significantly more time on a particular story in News Feed than the majority of other stories they look at, this is a good sign that content was relevant to them,” they wrote.Related:How does Facebook decide what to show in my news feed?Facebook is stressing that pages run by companies and celebrities are not expected to be affected by this change – despite unrest in the past after similar tweaks have meant page posts reach less people on the social network.Facebook has made a habit of announcing changes to its news-feed algorithm since August 2013, when the company explained thatthe average user could see 1,500 potential storiesfrom friends and pages every time they log in – a number that the algorithm narrowed down to around 300.The social network has sparked controversy with some of its changes to the algorithm in the past, however: it wasstrongly criticised in 2014after details emerged of an experiment that hid “a small percentage” of emotional words from people’s news feeds to test what impact that had on their own posts.
Fallout 4 will be released on PC, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on 10 November 2015, publisher Bethesda has announced.The company devoted a large chunk of its first E3 press conference to the post-apocalyptic role-playing adventure, with game director Todd Howard providing some key details.This time round the action is set to begin before the nuclear war that kicked off the previous titles in the series. On stage, Howard showed a couple chatting in their bathroom, while looking in the mirror – a scene which turns out to be the character customisation system, where players are able to sculpt and define the features of their protagonist, male or female (the game also creates a baby for the couple based on their player-modified facial features). As the bombs fall, however, the lead character scrambles into a Vault 111 shelter – only to emerge 200 years later, with seemingly only a robot named Codsworth for company.Once out, according to Howard, you find, “an enormous dynamic world, where you can create any kind of character you want, go where you want and do whatever you want. Player freedom remains our absolute number one goal.” Created using Bethesda’s Creation engine the environment features physical-based rendering and dynamic volumetric lighting. All dialogue with non-player characters is also dynamic – players can walk away from scripted sequences, or even shoot and kill the character to end the conversation.In the press conference demo, the lead protagonist almost immediately encounters a dog wondering the wasteland and befriends it. Through the game it can be given commands, like go and stay, and these can be contextualised depending on the environment – the canine helper can, for example, be sent to fetch objects.Players will also be able to scavenge items from the world and scrap them in order to build their own settlements. Collecting wood, for example, will allow you to construct shacks, which can then be furnished with beds, airplane seats, cabinets, bookcases and even a decorative moose head. You can even build a kennel for the dog. As the settlement grows, traders turn up to sell useful items like power generators – these can then be connected to various gadgets like gun turrets. According to Howard, these are key as raiders will be attracted to large settlements and need to be warded off. Apparently, dozens of areas around the map are assigned as settlement zones – although players don’t have to construct bases if they just want to wander the wilderness Mad Max-style.A new weapons customisation system was revealed too, which also allows objects to be collected and used as gun parts. A scope for a rifle for example could be constructed out of parts retrieved from toy cars, desk lamp even handcuffs. There are apparently 50 base weapons in the game but over 700 modifications, leading to the creation of guns like the plasma sniper riffle and tactical junk jet. Melee weapons like baseball bats can also be enhanced with barbed wire and even metal saw discs. The game’s robotic power suits can be modified with spare parts too.Fallout 4 also features a new version of the familiar personal data gadget Pip Boy, which the lead character wears on their wrist. Looking a little like the version of the Hitch Hiker’s Guide to the Galaxy used in the 80s TV show, it used retro computer graphics to display your weapons and inventory info. It can also be loaded with game cassettes which feature playable versions of old platformer and shooting games. Bethesda is releasing a Pip Boy smartphone and tablet app, on both iOS and Android, which will display all this information and work as a second screen for all versions of the game (“As far as stupid gimmisks go,” said Howard of this feature, “This is the best one I have ever seen”). Purchasers of the special edition will get an actual wearable Pip Boy which has a compartment for you to place your phone.Howard also announced a new smartphone game, Fallout Shelter, a spin-off management sim, in which players will get to build and care for a post-apocalyptic community living in an ever expanding vault. Influenced by XCOM and Sim City, it’s free to play, requires no online collection and only features optional microtransactions for loot drops. The game was released on Sunday night for iOS platforms.Press conference audiences, both those in Hollywood’s famous Dolby Theatre and the many thousands watching the live stream, also saw a few glimpses of combat. In the short demos, raider psychos, super mutants and synth striders were all dispatched using a modified version of the series VATS (Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting) system, which lets players pause battles and target specific areas of preferred targets.Howard stopped short of revealing too many story elements though, only reiterating that the game will take place in and around a devastated version of Boston. More details are likely to materialise at the Gamescom conference later in the summer.Bethesda also revealed that Arkane Studios is working on a sequel to its gothic stealth adventure Dishonored. The new title seems to have added a new grappling hook mechanic and there’s now a choice of two characters: previous protagonist Corvo and female assassin, Emily Kaldwin. It’s due out next year, but before that, the publisher is lining up the Definitive Edition of the original game, including all the DLC, which is coming to PS4 and Xbox One this autumn.An Elder Scrolls-based collectible card game, no doubt designed to compete with Hearthstone, was also revealed. Elder Scrolls: Legends is coming to PC and iPad later in the year.Keith Stuart attended a press trip to E3 with accommodation and travel costs met by Bethesda
GOOGLE PHOTOSiOS/AndroidIf you’re looking for a new way to store and access your photos in the cloud, Google’s new service is worth a look. You won’t run out of space easily and it has clever search, editing and sharing features for your collection.MIXRADIOiOS/AndroidThis streaming radio service started on Windows Phone smartphones, but is now widely available. It focuses on curated playlists of themes and genres, as well as whipping up playlists if you tell it which artists you like.INBOX BY GMAILiOS/AndroidEmail overload is a 21st-century problem. Apps such as Gmail offshoot Inbox are trying to solve it with filters and gestural controls to ensure you don’t miss important emails – and delete irrelevant ones.CAMERA51iOS/AndroidAvailable for some time on Android, this is now on Apple devices: a photography app that promises to help you take better shots. That includes detecting faces in your shots and helping you frame the best snaps.FROZEN: EARLY DAYS IN SCIENCEiOSFrozen fever shows no signs of abating among children and this latest app from Disney looks set to capitalise on all the hullabaloo. What’s more, it gets kids learning about cookery and reindeer care: one of which is likely to be more useful than the other in their day-to-day lives.MAKE MY DAYiOS/AndroidThis is a travel app from Lonely Planet, initially focusing on six cities:London, Paris, Barcelona, New York, San Francisco and Tokyo. It plans your holiday with suggestions for morning, afternoon and evening activities and venues.VIMO FITNESSiOS/AndroidSmartwatches are giving health and fitness apps a new lease of life with the release of Apple and Android smartwatches. Vimo Fitness uses those devices to guide your workouts in the gym, communicating with its parent app on your smartphone to track everything.MOLESKINETIMEPAGEiOS/AndroidMoleskine is best known for its luxury notebooks, but the company is also moving into apps. This is a stylish calendar app that keeps track of your diary dates, pulling in travel times and weatherforecasts and directions plus an Apple Watch version.SAGO MINIMONSTERSiOS/AndroidSago makes delightful children’s apps, usually only for Apple devices. It’s just started porting them to Android though: Sago Mini Monsters is a good introduction: a colourful, creative app for kids to create their own monsters.DEEMEiOS/AndroidYou might think that WhatsApp, Instagram and Snapchat have got photo-sharing and messaging tied up between them. DeeMe hopes not: it’s a fun instant messaging app that gets people adding text to their photos before sending them.Knights of Pen and Paper.GAMESKNIGHTS OFPEN &amp; PAPER 2iOS/AndroidThe original Knights of Pen &amp; Paper was an entertaining RPG that played with the genre’s conventions – including spoofing tabletop role-playing. This sequel follows that pattern but expands on everything, with a welcome dash of humour.FRUIT NINJA:MATH MASTERiOS/AndroidFruit Ninja was a big hit as a mobile game for grownups – and a fair few children. This spinoff is just for the kids: still about slashing fruit in half, but teaching addition, subtraction, multiplication and other maths skills too.CAPITALSiOSMultiplayer word games such as Words With Friends have been popular on smartphones and Capitals fits neatly into the genre. You have to pick words out of a grid of letters, with the aim of defending your own base and attacking your opponent’s.SEABEARDiOS/AndroidOne of the best games for Nintendo 3DS is Animal Crossing, but it’s not available on smartphones or tablets. Seabeard is the best attempt yet to recapture its charms.MARVELFUTURE FIGHTiOS/AndroidIf you’re a fan of the Marvel universe, this is an essential download: an impressive fighting game with pretty much all the key superheroes and villains. It’s got brains as well as brawn.SKIING YETIMOUNTAINiOS/AndroidIn this marvellously fun action game, you swoop down the slopes searching for abominable snowmen, with controls that get the momentum of skiing just right.GOATZiOS/AndroidGoat Simulator was a ridiculous animal game that went viral. Now it has a follow-up that gets more ridiculous through the addition of zombies – but thankfully it’s also really fun. Fire-breathing elephants are thrown in for good measure.LARA CROFT:RELIC RUNiOS/AndroidThere was more than a touch of Tomb Raider in mobile hit Temple Run. Now the favour is being returned, as the former’s star Lara Croft gets her own endless-runner game. It’s polished and accessible, with vehicles adding a twist of originality.GEOMETRY WARS 3:DIMENSIONSiOS (£3.99)The Geometry Wars games are eye-popping shoot-‘em ups that have translated beautifully to touchscreen devices in this new game. You have to blast through 50 levels, with lots of separate battle modes to give the action variety.DESKTOP DUNGEONSiOS / AndroidThe “roguelike” genre of RPGs can seem daunting to newcomers, but they’re a lot of fun once you dive into their procedurally-generated dungeons to fight and loot. Desktop Dungeons is one of the best: designed to suit quick mobile sessions.
Steins;Gateis a visual novel, a uniquely Japanese style of game that is more of a digital book accompanied by images. There’s likely a contingent of outspoken players furious at the thought that this is a considered a “game” of any kind. Yet while reading through walls of text is going to be a deal breaker for some, those with the patience will find this to be an incredibly absorbing experience. Played (or should that be read?) from the perspective of Rintaro Okabe, a would-be mad scientist who prefers his alternative persona of Hououin Kyouma, an intricate story centred on time travel unfolds.Okabe can recognise changes in the timeline and, coupled with a microwave that sends messages back in time (seriously), he and his friends attempt to improve the future. Most “gameplay” comes in the form of phone calls, a mechanism to explore causality withinSteins;Gate’s temporally complex narrative. Decline to answer a call and the ramifications can range from the personal to the dimension-shattering. It’s simple, but adds at least a touch of interaction. The slow pace, Japanese-only voice acting and occasional typos will deter some, but stick with it andSteins;Gate’s approach to sci-fi storytelling and its beautiful artwork make for a delightful curiosity.
When Joe Weizenbaum found his secretary using a computer program he had created, he was so upset he devoted the rest of his life to warning people not to use its technology. The program was “Eliza”, which gives a passable imitation of a nondirectional psychiatrist; you type sentences such as: “I wonder what I should write,” and it replies :“What answer would please you the most?” (You can try a version atpsych.fullerton.edu/mbirnbaum/psych101/Eliza.htm).Weizenbaum’s distress came because he had written Eliza as an experiment, to see whether he could simulate “artificial intelligence” in a question-and-answer system by parsing sentences and throwing relevant bits back at the questioner. But his secretary saw it as real, and asked him not to intrude on “sessions”; Weizenbaum saw this as an omen that we would be too easily fooled into trusting machines.The story dates from the 1960s (Weizenbaum died in March 2008), but is relevant today. Machine intelligence and machine learning – the new synonyms for “artificial intelligence” – are on the rise and are going to be pervasive. To some extent, anyone using a smartphone is already using some sort of machine intelligence with Google Now’s suggestions or Apple Maps’s determination of what counts as your “home” and “work”, or Windows Phone’s Cortana. We don’t call these “artificial intelligence”, because the moniker earned ridicule down the years. But it doesn’t matter what you call it; the ability to get computers to infer information that they aren’t directly supplied with, and to act on that, is already here. Take Google Photos, released in May, which can figure out that you were taking photos of a zombie parade, or find pictures of canoes, or - well, pretty much anything. It’s not limited to human faces (though it can do those, and distinguish between children and babies). If you don’t want to know about deep-learning neural networks, then it satisfies Arthur C Clarke’s dictum: “Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.”Part of the magic behind Google Photos comes from a British company, DeepMind Technologies, which built what it calls “artificial generalised intelligence”. They trained it on video games such asSpace InvadersandBreakout; it got amazingly good at them after a few hundred games, without any special training. DeepMind isn’t the only machine learning company Google has acquired; last Augustit bought Jetpac, which used neural networks to figure out what was in your holiday photos.The promise of such machine learning is hugely exciting, and not limited to Google. Jetpac’s creator Pete Warden wrote a fun app calledDeep Beliefwhich you could download for iOS that used neural networks to try to identify what the camera was seeing. . There’s an open-source machine learning framework calledSeldon. Another AI system calledSnipsnow in beta (http://snips.net/beta), aims to put a personalised AI – a “smart assistant” – on your phone.It’s that latter idea that’s the real promise. Eliza used to require a mainframe; modern machines can run it as an applet without breaking sweat. Deep Belief shows that neural networks can run on modern smartphones. Give it a few years, and your smartphone’s AI will have power enough to understand the context of what you’re doing, figure out how it should help (call or text people to say you’re late? Understand whose emails you do and don’t want to receive at particular times? Find the right people for you to link up with on social media?) and act on it. You’ll be able to choose whether you want that done by an “assistant” on your phone, or in the cloud. The cloud-based one will be smarter, because it will have access to much more data; the phone-based one will be much more personal, and function even without a network connection.Weizenbaum feared that AI couldn’t be trusted with decisions because it wouldn’t have empathy or compassion. But that’s fine. It’s the everyday grind that AI can smooth. I, for one, welcome our new robot underlings.
Served up as an appetiser for next year’s PS4-exclusiveStreet Fighter V, Sony has commissioned a quick and dirty next-gen port of the landmark title responsible for reviving the fighting game genre. Sadly, the emphasis here is on the dirty. Sure, the content presented is comprehensive, featuring the most up-to-date revision of the game, complete with 44 characters, the hyperactive Omega mode and every DLC costume to date (including the hilarious animal wild pack).Sadly, the quality of the port falls some way short of Capcom’s in-house standards. Menus are jerky, music skips, moves are buggy and broken and, to top it all off, it suffers from input lag, an issue the PS4 version was promoted as having fixed over the PS3 iteration. Considering this is a modest six-year-old engine that runs flawlessly on the existing PC port, there’s really no excuse for such poor performance. Inevitably, there will be a patch that beats the game into shape, but until that day it’s impossible to recommend this spoiled update of Capcom’s evergreen title.
A dungeon crawler in the vein of the 3DS’s complex and challengingEtrian Odysseyseries on the more powerful Vita should be a win. Yet whileOperation Abysspacks sharper visuals and a richer, brooding musical score into its nightmare tale of strange powers and extra-dimensional monsters (that only Japanese teenagers can vanquish, naturally), in almost every other respect it’s a disappointment.From reused environments to typos in the text and the rote emulation ofEtrian Odyssey’s nuanced role-playing, this feels like a job half done. More effort has been put into character creation, for the squads you explore dungeons with, than in explaining any of the game’s overcomplicated systems to the player.Even its combat is a disappointment. Played first-person, enemies are obscure and it’s unclear which characters are in the front or rear “row” to attack. Get it wrong, and all you can do is guard. Overall, a wasted opportunity.
I’m lying on the ground in the middle of the park, feeling a bit like a crash test dummy. My ears are ringing and my head is held in the vice-like grip of safety gear more suited to a spaceship.But what I’m actually wearing is a cycling helmet. It’s aHövding, an “airbag for cyclists”, invented in Sweden and billed as the helmet for people who don’t like wearing helmets. The Hövding promises superior protection in a crash without the need to actually put anything on your head.My “crash” was simulated for the camera’s benefit, but still I’m surprised by the drama of it all. The Hövding incorporates a lot of scientific research and a sophisticated algorithm that stops it going off unnecessarily, so to activate it I had to throw myself at the ground, headfirst. Moments before impact there was a loud bang, then there I was on the ground, stunned, wrapped in a hard white balloon.I’m one of those cyclists who never wears a helmet. I justify this to myself by pointing to theongoing controversyover whether they actually help. Some studies have suggested helmets encourage both riders and drivers to take more risks,and one studysuggested that cyclists wearing helmets are more likely to be involved in collisions with passing vehicles.Yet the statistics can’t really counter my belief that, if I knew for sure I was going to crash, I’d rather be protected than not. When I started cycling I always wore one, but after several years without ever calling on it I started to leave it behind. Not because of vanity, I hasten to say. It’s not a head of carefully groomed hair I’m trying to protect. Rather it’s the hassle of having one more thing to carry once I’m off the bike. To the cinema, in restaurants, at the supermarket. Add to this the discomfort of a sweaty head covered in plastic and polystyrene in summer and it doesn’t seem worth it. So would a Hövding change my mind? In its resting state, the Hövding fits round your neck a bit like a scarf. It’s heavier than it looks, with a battery, airbag and all that Swedish technology inside. You need to keep it charged and switch it on when you set off.It’s a bit cumbersome off the bike, pulled backwards by the weight at the back, but when you’re cycling and leaning forward it’s fairly unobtrusive. I was expecting looks of admiration and envy at the traffic lights as other cyclists noticed my sophisticated piece of kit – but no one seemed to pay it any attention.I wouldn’t want to wear it off the bike, though, so it doesn’t really solve the problems I have with helmets. It’s a bit easier to carry around than a bog standard one as it can be folded and put in a (largish) bag, but not much. And at £249 you certainly won’t be leaving it on your bike. Then there’s the heat – it might keep you warm in winter but having a chunky scarf around your neck in hot weather is not going to be pleasant.I did notice I felt safer with it on, though. I have a rule about not wearing headphones when cycling, but with the Hövding I broke that a few times, listening to music on my way home from work. It was great, but perhaps confirms those suggestions about taking extra risks if you think you’re protected.And since the Hövding can only be used once – although if you’re involved in an accident they will sell you a replacement for £99 – I probably won’t be splashing out any time soon. If, however, the crash hadn’t been simulated and the device had saved my life, £249 might seem cheap at the price.
Bethesda kicked off its inaugural E3 press conference with a bang – and a hell of a lot of blood – revealing in-game footage from Id Software’s Doom, a modern refresh of the classic shooter series.Set on Mars and throughout the depths of Hell, the game looks to be a return to the classic Doom gameplay – super fast, hyper-violent action against nightmarish demons – all rendered in detailed visuals, courtesy of the game’s Id Tech 6 engine.Shotguns, plasma rifles and a chainsaw once again play a part in the slaughter – and the gore factored has been dialled up considerably. In the onscreen demo shown during the event, the player shoots through a furnace-like space base, blasting demons into pieces with the shotgun, then punching their heads off or stamping them in the brains. Blasting at barrels causes collateral explosions, which take out reams of enemies in one blossoming ignition. Players are even able to grasp and pull apart the skulls of downed enemies, while chainsaws can be used to slice through their limbs and chests.The bloody violence is already causing social media controversy, with feminist critic Anita Sarkeesiantweeting, “This level of extreme violence shouldn’t be considered normal. It’s not an excuse to say it’s expected because DOOM. That’s the problem.” The original Doom itself provoked considerable debate over the depiction of violence in first-person shooters, with US army colonel David Grossman famously labelling the game a “mass murder simulator” and claiming that this, and similar titles, wereteaching children how to kill. Attempts were made throughout the 1990s to link game violence to real-life spree shootings. Recent studies, however, havequestionedlinksbetween games and violent crime.Beyond this familiar debate, the most intriguing element of Doom is its Snapmap mode, an intuitive level editor intended for fans rather than skilled mod (modification) makers. Players will be able to design and build their own multiplayer maps using a simple grid-based system, as well as applying different game types such as co-op horde and classic four-player deathmatch. With one button participants can then play or share new maps online.There look to be plenty more nods to old school Doom, including the famous door opening sounds, familiar demon types, and armour and health pick ups. There are new tricks too, including wrenching an arm off a dead body and using its finger prints to open a locked door via the security panel. But this looks to be very much a game for confirmed fans looking for a knowing sequel that references the original.Bethesda finished its Doom presentation with a clip from the single-player campaign, revealing a new area set in Hell. The vast sulphurous landscape, with craggy mountains spewing gas into the greenish air, is jammed with rocket pack zombies and ends with a mega demon bearing down at the player.The game is due out on PC, Xbox One and PS4 in spring 2016.Keith Stuart attended E3 on a press trip with accommodation and travel provided by Bethesda
YouTube is launching YouTube Gaming, a new spin-off app and website for gamers that will make its debut in the summer, initially in the US and UK.It will seek to capitalise on the popularity of gaming videos on YouTube, with profile pages for more than 25,000 games “from Asteroids to Zelda” collecting videos related to each title. Games publishers and YouTube gamers will also be prominently featured.Related:YouTube's top 10 games channels watched 2.2bn times in JanuaryLive streaming will be a key focus as Google’s online video service tries to win back the initiative from Twitch –bought by Amazon for $970m in 2014.“Live streams bring the gaming community closer together, so we’ve put them front-and-centre on the YouTube Gaming homepage,” wrote Alan Joyce, YouTube’s product manager for gaming,in a blogpost announcing the upcoming launch. “And in the coming weeks, we’ll launch an improved live experience that makes it simpler to broadcast your gameplay to YouTube.“On top of existing features like high frame rate streaming at 60fps, DVR, and automatically converting your stream into a YouTube video, we’re redesigning our system so that you no longer need to schedule a live event ahead of time. We’re also creating a single link you can share for all your streams.”Twitch ended 2014 witha monthly audience of more than 100 millionfor its live and archived game streams. YouTube was stronger in pre-recorded “let’s play” videos and other gaming content.Gaming videos are hugely popular on YouTube.The 100 most-viewed games channelsin May 2015 accumulated just under 6bn views that month alone, according to online video industry site Tubefilter and analytics firm OpenSlate.They were led by PewDiePie, the Swedish gamer who has become one of YouTube’s most recognisable faces. His channel has more than 37 million subscribers and generated 352m views in April alone. Other popular YouTube gaming channels include The Diamond Minecart (290m views in April), Popular MMOs (285m), Markiplier (222m) and Jack Septic Eye (219m).Related:YouTube backs digital star Stampy's new Minecraft show Wonder QuestYouTube has also started to fund gaming content,buying up exclusive rights to Wonder Quest, a new show recently launched by child-friendly Minecraft gamer Stampy.The launch of YouTube Games means that YouTube now has standalone sites for each of its three biggest video categories: games, music and children.The company is currentlyrunning a beta testof its YouTube Music Key streaming service, with a commercial launch expected by the end of 2015.Earlier in 2015 itlaunched YouTube Kids in the US, a standalone app designed to serve only child-friendly videos and channels. It has beencriticised for a few slip-ups on that score.
Gill Pratt invented legs. Well, sort of: the MIT-educated scientist invented electric series-elastic actuators, the technology that carried thebipedal “dinosaur” robotsthat wowed the scientific community in the early aughts.Since 2010, he has worked for the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa), the wing of the US defense department devoted to funding and developing new technologies, from a self-steering bullet calledExactoto the packet-switching system, Arpanet, that became the internet. He is now set to leave the robotics challenge program.Pratt’s program at Darpa has been theDarpa Robotics Challenge(DRC), a years-long contest that came to fruition last weekend when three of 25 semi-autonomous robots – “mostly puppets with a little bit of smarts in them”, he told a crowd of reporters before the finals – successfully shut down mock nuclear reactors at a fairground in Pomona, California.The Guardian asked him what’s next for robots, and how it feels to be moving on from the DRC.Guardian: So you’ve been working toward this moment for years. How do you think it went?Pratt:The Robotics Challenge, I think, went extremely well. We had three winners, each of which got all eight points, andthe overall winner was team KAIST, from Korea. Next in line was the Institute for Human and Machine Cognition, that’s IHMC, in Pensacola, and in third place was Tartan Rescue from Carnegie Mellon University National Robotics Engineering Center. All three really performed extraordinarily well, and the fact the third place one fell down and got back up was really, really good.The public obviously ask you hourly about whether you’re weaponizing these robots ...Yes.... and you said something a few weeks ago that science is neutral and that you can use any of it for good or for ill. But guys have obviously thought long and hard about what branch of science to try to advance, given that this is the Darpa Robotics Challenge and not the Darpa Mutated Anthrax Challenge. I was wondering how you went about that.We did it because we think advancing robotics technology can apply to all areas. In general robotics does dull, dirty and dangerous tasks, and it can do that without particulars as to which of the three. For example in disaster response, we did robots for dangerous tasks, but robots that can do dull tasks come from the same technology.In other parts of defense, it turns out that logistics are by far the greatest part of the cost. It’s three quarters of a million to a million dollars a person to support one of our soldiers overseas. The reason is that if you’re in a dangerous area, it’s very difficult to get supplies to that person and protect them and to take care of them. This has nothing to do with the battlefield: this is just one of our guys in an austere environment in a foreign land. That cost is higher for us than any other military in the world.A few people in the armed forces we talked to said they were annoyed with Google because so much government money (a $10m, eight-robot contract for the finals) had gone to Boston Dynamics, the company that makesAtlas, and now that Google owns BD, they’ve said they’re not selling to the Defense Department anymore.Just to be clear, you may have heard that from other folks, but that’s actually not what we think. We’re very enthusiastic that Google or any other commercial company decides to take our technology and go for it in the commercial world. That works just fine even if the defense budget was used to pay for the high-risk part of it in the early investment that Darpa made.It would be just the same if NIH (the National Institute of Health) developed a vaccine in the civilian world and it suddenly had an application to protect soldiers in a foreign land where that disease was more prevalent than in the US. Things can cross over from one side to another. We really think that’s good, and that it doesn’t matter. In particular, when Darpa technology crosses over into the private sector, even if it’s not available to defense, what it does is it drives the cost of the products way, way down.Cellphones are a great example. Often a specialized version of that technology in the civilian sector will then be spun off into the military area. Lots of specialized planes for the DoD are defense versions of a civilian plane. And cellphones these days are now used with specialized apps within defense. The technology in cellphones, from the screens to the processors that are in there, were offshoots of work that Darpa did. So we expect things to cross over back and forth, and we don’t mind at all that Google said: “Hey, let’s actually run with this thing.” We think that it’s great.So last week we had humanoid robots, a few years ago we had self-driving cars at the Darpa Urban Challenge. What’s next at Darpa?There is aCyber Grand Challengethat Darpa is doing. They’re going to do the finals in another year or so. The program manager is a different guy, but it’s basically people versus machines, and the challenge is to protect a computer from an attack with malware. So, can automatic software be developed to modify the operating system in a real-time way to protect it against attack, or do high-end programmers have the edge in doing that? And the answer is that we don’t know. But it’s kind of a neat way for both of them to get better.Related:Try, Robot: Darpa contest sends new humanoids into 'nuclear reactor'Are there other Robotics Challenges coming after you leave?There may be others. We had a number of workshops onmultiple robots, but it’s not clear that that’s what’s going to go forward next. I don’t know. We change program managers in my job. You only stay there between two and five years, and so every year or two there’s something new that comes up.Google, Daimler and Uber all have self-driving cars now; how do you anticipate humanoid robots reaching the private sector?I think the next big thing to conquer is cost. All the prototypes that you saw were in the hundreds of thousands to millions of dollars. And once a market is identified, whether it’s in manufacturing or agriculture or ageing society, once someone kind of finds the match between the technology and the market, the costs will go way down, and that will be an amazing thing. The next neat thing that’s going to happen is cloud robotics: that’s where when one robot learns something they all learn something.Let’s say you have a group of robots used for ageing society and their job is to clean up within your house. As each machine does its work, eventually one of them will come across an object and not know what it is, and it’ll reach out to the cloud, through the internet, and say: “Does anyone know what this thing is?” Let’s say that no one does. Then it’ll reach out to a person and the person will say: “Oh, that’s a jar of oil, and that belongs in the cupboard next to the jar of vinegar.” And the robot will say: “Got it!” And now every single one of them knows. In this way, you can bootstrap up the confidence of all the machines throughout the world. I think that will be the next technology.That sounds like robots using the cloud the way reporters use Twitter.Right, and that’s an amazing thing! And it’s enabled by the internet, right, so a sort of old Darpa thing feeding into a new Darpa thing and working together. Some of the computation can be done on the cloud, too, so you can offload that so the robot itself doesn’t have to burn up the power onboard to do lots of that work.Are you going to miss this?I am going to miss it tremendously. [DRC] was an amazing event. An extraordinary dream come true, actually.
Are you a gadget fiend or a technophobe?Definitely a gadget fiend. I was a proper nerd as a kid. A spod. I programmed my Amstrad CPC 464 in Basic and built my own number games. My first paid music job was singing in the touring production ofEvita, aged 10 – a seminal moment in my life – and from the proceeds I bought a sampler. But because of the Amstrad’s memory limitations, you only had one second to play with, so you could only make stuff like the “Ta-ta-ta-take” bit in Respectable by Mel &amp; Kim.Are you an Apple addict?Yes. If you don’t move over to Macs, you just feel like a complete loser [laughs]. They run Pro Tools so well, that’s my excuse. I’m now a full-on Apple person and it makes feel a little bit ill, but music software runs so much better than on my dilapidated old Dell.Related:Gareth Malone's Voices review – before you know it, you're singing tooHow has technology changed the work of a choirmaster?Utterly transformed it. I look for repertoire on Spotify and YouTube. I download sheet music, arrange and compose on Sibelius, then email PDF scores to singers, usually via Dropbox. If you need to give people a note, you can get it off your iPhone, you don’t need a pitch pipe any more. The only thing you can’t really replace is the singers but I’m sure that will soon change [laughs]. Robo-singers. Bring it on.Do you audition singers via FaceTime or Skype too?Yeah, it’s so easy now. I put my Voices choir together like that, with 800 applicants emailing in files from all over the country. We auditioned for last year’s Proms like that and the soloists for the diamond jubilee song with Gary Barlow. I’m currently doing the Latitude festivalgoers’ choir entirely digitally.You travel a lot for work. How has technology changed that experience?I can have all my scores with me, in one space. I can stick headphones on, plug myself into the laptop and work wherever I am. I’ve arranged on planes, boats and trains.What’s your favourite gadget at the moment?My lint remover. I sit watching TV, quietly debobbling my jumpers. It’s insanely satisfying.What’s the most expensive gadget you own?Probably my laptop. It’s from 2009 but I’ve invested in it: replaced the hard drive with a solid state one, replaced the memory and CD-rom. It’s battered but it’s been with me through thick and thin.Do you have flash gadgetry at home?Not really, I’m slightly anti-tech in the kitchen. A domestic Luddite. We don’t have a microwave. I’ve got an old filter coffee maker. But I do have a Nutribullet which is brilliant. I was also very annoyed to have bought a big new TV just before 4K came out. My wife thinks I’m nuts – the TV’s fine.Do you keep your phone on the table at dinner?Definitely not. I try to turn off in the evenings but I’ve got phone addiction like anyone. I’ve had periods when I’ve had to wean myself off. They put you somewhere else. It’s a mental thing, about being present in the room. God, I’m starting to sound like a mindfulness coach! I had a year zero moment with email recently. I had 2,000 unanswered emails and thought, right, I’m starting a new email account. A whitewash. A blank canvas.Do you ever use textspeak or emojis?In a really dad way, I enjoy it ironically. I only emoji people I know well. If someone says “We’re going through the accounts later”, that would be cause for two dancing ladies or champagne corks popping.What are your favourite apps?I use a few music ones – Piano Notes, Guitar Tuna, Shazam, Spotify is central to my universe – plus the BBC weather app. But I think the great promise of apps failed to deliver. They haven’t changed the world.Do you love or loathe social media?Both. They can be fantastic fun and it’s great to feel connected to people, but it’s another distraction. Something else to feel guilty about. I have a Twitter account, a public Facebook profile and a private one for being sarcastic to my friends.Malone has turned his back on the Nintendo Gamecube.What’s your all-time favourite computer game?I’ve had obsessive gaming periods. The last was in 2005, when I was single and had a Nintendo GameCube. I got really intoStar Wars: Rebel Strikeand managed to complete it, then thought, “That’s enough. I need to get a girlfriend.” Haven’t played a game since.If you could time travel, where would you go?Weirdly, I’ve always fantasised about being able to go back and do my education again. I’d go back to 1992, redo my A-levels and take French this time as well. That sounds so sad and regretful, doesn’t it?Gareth Malone presents Voices &amp; The Latitude Choir at Latitude festival on 18 July (latitudefestival.com)
It’s surprisingly transfixing watching robots – great, lumbering, 7ft-tall humanoids – trying to walk and use power tools and drive a car. But it’s not the only spectator sport on hand at theDarpa Robotic Challenge. There’s also spot-the-billionaire. The first one I clock is Larry Page, co-founder of Google, who walks right in front of me leading his young son by the hand. “Larry!” I say, but then hesitate. I’m not sure how this question will end. “Is Google planning to build a race of superbots that will take over the earth?” is perhaps too bold an opener. “Could I just … ?” I say but he simply smiles and walks away.Given that Google bought multiple AI and robotics companies 18 months ago on a secret shopping spree, including a Japanese one, Schaft, which won the first round of the Darpa challenge, it’s hardly surprising that Page has turned up for what is the World Cup ofcutting edge robotics. Or what Gill Pratt, the programme director at Darpa who designed the competition, calls “the Super Bowl for nerds”. Because what Google is planning to do with its robots is one of the many hot topics of the weekend. The company has “gone dark”, Will Knight ofMIT Tech Reviewsays. “Nobody knows. It’s a complete mystery. Though it’s also possible that even Google doesn’t know what to do with them yet.”But he’s far from the only billionaire in town. Later I spot a face I half recognise: a man photographing his infant son next to a particularly space-age looking humanoid and it’s only later that someone tells me it’sElon Musk, the Silicon Valley It-Boy, who co-founded PayPal and Tesla and is hoping to launch cut-price space travel with SpaceX. Elsewhere in the crowd there’sTravis Kalanick, founder of Uber, one of the most ambitious – and notorious – companies in Silicon Valley; its ride-sharing app has spread across the globe in a way most taxi drivers compare to a bad case of swine flu.In fairness, Page and Musk are engineers who probably grew up dreaming of robots and there are similar father-son pairings all over the Los Angeles stadium (and a few daughters), but it’s an indication of what’s at stake here. What the next technological frontier looks like. What big business is eyeing up as the next big commercial opportunity: namely, autonomous robot technology that can operate in a human environment. Or to put it another way: Terminator. Although we’re repeatedly told that the robots are not Terminator; that they’re not going to kill us; or make us their slaves; that there is nothing to fear.Darpa: these robots will save your life (once they learn to walk)In the press briefing, Gill Pratt says the competition was inspired by the Japanese nuclear disaster atFukushimaand designed around the concept of humanitarian search and rescue. If a robot had been able to access the plant in the immediate aftermath, he says, it’s possible that it could have prevented it from spiralling out of control. And 23 teams have qualified to design that robot: a robot that can operate in our world and use our tools. The winning robot will be the one to complete eight different tasks in the fastest time.“I know you’re going to ask, ‘Isn’t this Terminator?’” says Pratt. “They’re 200lbs and made of steel and they look scary. But the answer is they can barely stand up on their own. These things are amazingly dumb. They can barely do anything at all. Don’t be fooled by their appearance. They’re mostly puppets.”Puppets who may one day be able to invade Syria. Because Darpa stands for the Defence Advanced Research Project Agency and it’s as shadowy as it sounds: a highly secretive arm of the US department of defence whose mission is to invent “breakthrough technology”, something it has done time and again, creating everything from GPS to the M16 assault rifle to the Arpanet, the precursor to today’s internet.Noel Sharkey, a British professor, who heads the Stop Killer Robots campaign, says he suspects “it’s an attempt to put a friendly face on the robotisation of warfare”. But any discussion of murderous new ways of killing people is not on the agenda. One of the exhibitors at the expo tells me that the companies were specifically asked not to bring any military hardware with them to what Darpa is billing as a “fun, family day out”.Related:Man behind Darpa's robotics challenge: robots will soon learn from each otherThe problem is that the robots do look like Terminator. And Ron Arkin, a robotics professor from the Georgia Institute of Technology, who is at the challenge because he was a judge in a competition Darpa held for high-school students, tells me about a presentation he held last year for many of the robotocists here called “How NOT to Build the Terminator”.“Basically, I took all the tasks that Darpa had set – driving a car, smashing a hole in the wall, opening a door – and showed clips from various sci-fi films, mostlyTerminator, showing robots doing exactly that.” What was the reaction? “Nervous laughter. But all these technologies are dual use and they need to realise this. There’s just this joy of discovery at the moment – let’s create it. But we have to figure out what we’ve created. And the real question is, what if we succeed? How will it be used?”I can see what he means. From the stands of the Los Angeles County Fairground in Pomona, California, where the event is being held, I sit and watch Hong Kong University’s robot striding down the track. It looks like a man with an oversized insect’s head. Its hands resemble claw hammers. But its movement is human and, from where I’m sitting, it looks as if it’s coming to get me.There’s a name for this phenomenon in robotics: the Uncanny Valley. The strange, unsettling response that humans have to forms that are almost-but-not-quite human. But then, there’s uncanniness all around. On the night before the challenge begins, I take a tour of the hangar-sized space where the 23 teams are making last-minute adjustments to their robots and the first one I meet is Running Man, a hulking humanoid carrying what looks like a large backpack. It’s one of seven Atlas robots, state-of-the-art droids designed byBoston Dynamics, the cutting-edge company that Google bought, and which Darpa gave as a base model to seven of the teams.“There’s a lot of teams who don’t have the engineering expertise to build a robot, but they do have the ability to programme one,” Daniel Reyes Duran, a Spaniard on the team from theInstitute for Human and Machine Cognition, or IHMC, in Florida, says. “It’s all in the control systems. And we have a really good walking algorithm.”He looks like a classic knucklehead, I point out. Though a knucklehead that cost $2m. And I wonder aloud what robots would look like if there were a woman on any of the teams. In the far corner of the garage, I findTeam NimBro Rescuefrom Bonn University and one of the few women around, a student called Angeliki Topalidou-Kyniazopoulou. She and her team-mates – all students – show me their robot, which looks less like a quarterback and more like it was fashioned out of an Ikea TV unit.Outsider ‘Momaro’, developed by the German team NimbRo Rescue.Photograph: MARK RALSTON/AFP/Getty ImagesTheir robot didn’t cost $2m. It barely cost $60,000. “We didn’t get any money from Darpa,” says Sven Behnke, the professor leading it. They are, it’s fair to say, the under-robot. The hot favourite is “Chimp”, built byTeam Tartan Rescue(all the teams have the kind of names that sound as if they’ve been left over from an episode ofThe Apprentice) from Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. It’s a vast red steel Transformer-like droid with caterpillar tracks for feet, a multi-million dollar budget, 18 different commercial sponsors and rather high expectations. On its first run out, however, it spectacularly falls over. But then even more spectacularly, it does what looks like a press-up and then gets up again. No other robot has managed this but the Foxconn logo on its shoulder makes it hard to cheer as enthusiastically as one might.Related:My week as an Amazon insiderAnother of its sponsors is Amazon but then Amazon has sponsored three of the teams – including Running Man – and the company is making no secret of its robotic ambitions. I bump into a computer vision scientist from the company who talks about a robot “picking” competition that Amazon held last week, expressly designed to find the technology that will replace the workers we call humans. “It’s very a tedious, tough job,” he says. “Human pickers walk up to 11 miles a day.” I know.I did the job for a week for an articleand I can’t help but feel a pang for my fellow workers. They thought it was a rubbish job too. But it was still a job.But then, long before these robots are fighting our wars for us, it’s likely that they’ll be packing our Amazon orders, or delivering them. Several companies have designs in this area and when I interview the head of the Team Tartan Rescue, a professor of robotics calledTony Stentz, I mention that I’d heard a lot of team members had been poached by Uber. “Has that caused a problem?”He bristles slightly. “The team is fantastic,” he says. “We have no problems there.” But was there some sort of brain drain going on in robotics? “I can’t comment on that.”It’s only later I learn that Uber not only lured away 40 of Carnegie Mellon’s researchers, leaving one of the top robotics departments in the country in crisis, but that he’s going too.It’s possible that June 2015 will be seen as the great inflection moment for robotics. When Darpa held its first autonomous vehicle challenge a decade ago, the idea of a self-driving car was pure science fiction. Fast forward to a third challenge in 2007, won by a team from Stanford, the head of which,Sebastian Thrun, was promptly hired away by Google to set up Google X, its highly secretive, advanced technology lab. Three years later, it announced that not only had it created a self-driving car, but it had driven it thousands of miles all over California.Related:New self-driving Google car smaller and even less reliant on human assistanceEvery major motor manufacturer is now developing self-driving cars. And I spot Thrun in the Google entourage. He’s officially left the company but it’s rumoured he’s advising it on what the next step forward is with robotics and AI.“It’s super, super exciting,” he says. “It might not be as thrilling as seeing cars zipping around but the complexity of these machines is really really tremendous,” he says. Is it a great leap forward? “Without a doubt.”And there’s no getting away from the excitement in the teams. They’ve been working flat out on these robots, coming up with completely new codes and strategies and brilliant solutions to what is an incredibly difficult and still very new discipline. “Robots are assholes,” Jerry Pratt, the leader of Team IHMC says. “They’re incredibly frustrating to work with. They hardly ever do what you want.”But the crowd loves the falls. All weekend, humanoids and robots that look like transformers or monkeys (Nasa’s is called “RoboSimian”) teeter and then topple. There’s a moment of extraordinary pathos early on when Team Aero’s multi-million-dollar wheeled droid gets stuck in the sand. And when the Running Man has a successful round, scoring the full eight points, there’s an all too human moment of hubris, when he does a victory wave and then collapses on top of the barrier.The Running Man robot comes a cropper.Photograph: APA blooper reel of the most spectacular falls is compulsive viewing for all the teams. And though Gill Pratt has warned us that the action will be “not quite like watching paint dry” but possibly worse — he compares it to a game of golf — it’s actually bizarrely gripping. At one point, I watch a robot fail to open a door for a good 20 minutes. And when it succeeds, I find myself cheering. When it falls, I gasp and groan. It’s a visceral reaction: humanoid disaster and humanoid triumph seems to tap into some ancient centre in my brain that I have no control of. And I’m not the only one. During the last heat, the stadium is in uproar. There are huge cheers, massive groans.I’m rooting for Team NimBro Rescue’s Ikea television unit, but it’s a hard robot to love. Instead of a head, it has what looks like a CCTV camera ripped off the wall outside the lab. It does astonishingly well on the first day. It drops only one point and finishes in a record time. When I catch up with the German team later, they can’t quite believe it either, though ultimately it’s a single-minded Korean team, Kaist, who triumph with a robot that has the best of both worlds: legs and wheels.At one point in the proceedings, John Markoff, a veteran technology correspondent for theNew York Times, who has a book on robots coming out this summer,Machines of Loving Grace, says: “It’s not about the machines. It’s about us.” What did he mean? “We can impute human qualities on to almost anything. Look at how people treat their dogs.” And this perhaps, is what the contest is ultimately about: human-robot interaction, the next frontier.Related:Pepper the chatty robot makes friends on first day at workOut in the expo area, I come across Pepper, a “social robot”, that is about to be launched as a “domestic companion” in Japan next month. It’s about 4ft high with huge eyes, programmed to track your own and the voice of an enthusiastic but possibly not very bright female cartoon character. “Can you make me a cup of tea?” I ask it. “I could try,” it says. “But I would rather be a friend.” The kind of friend who doesn’t listen to a word you say, it transpires, and busts out the disco moves at the slightest opportunity. The kids clustering around it give it hugs on command, however, and are utterly transfixed. A few stalls along, I find Nasa showcasing its Valkyrie robot, which flunked out of an earlier round of the challenge. It looks like a super-sized version of the Stig in an all-white body suit with a helmet head. But then I notice it has swellings in the chest area. Does your robot have breasts?“It has some feminine features,” Ron Diftler, manager of the robotics lab at the Johnson Space Centre in Houston, says, “So that it’s functional but also appealing. It’s like with people. We wouldn’t be as attractive if we had neutered features. Her sibling robot has male features.”‘Valkyrie’, the well-endowed humanoid robot designed by NASA.Photograph: MARK RALSTON/AFP/Getty ImagesI can’t help thinking that a robot with enormous tits is exactly the kind of robot only a male robot designer would come up with. She’s about 7ft tall with shoulders as wide as a table and what looks like a laser gun coming out of her mouth.“We are entering an age of robots,” John Markoff says. “These machines will live among us.” But whose robots will they be? They’ll reflect the biases and values of whoever codes them and my piffling concerns about sexism are just the start of it: there’s not even any real debate about whether we should allow robots to start wars or not.Autonomous weapon systems are inevitable, says Ron Arkin, the how-not-to-build-the Terminator professor. Because they already exist. And recently the voices warning about the potential consequences of AI have grown: Stephen Hawking, Bill Gates and Elon Musk, have publicly warned about the consequences – and dangers – of artificial intelligence.Related:Artificial intelligence will become strong enough to be a concern, says Bill Gates“InTerminator, they didn’t create AI to have some sort of Terminator-like outcome,” Musk has said. “ It’s sort of like the Monty Python thing. Nobody expects the Spanish inquisition.” Nobody does expect the Spanish inquisition. Least of all, roboticists. “They’re the most recalcitrant people I know,” says Arkin. “Maybe it dampens this thrilling joy of discovery. But there’s no doubt that they’re sticking their heads in the sand.”What Darpa’s 2015 robotic challenge has made clear is that it’s a Brave New Robot World. And since Darpa and Google and Amazon and Foxconn aren’t going to, we should probably be talking about it, human to human. Before they steal our jobs, or rescue us from nuclear meltdown, or start firing laser missiles from their enormous robot breasts.
RIP CURL SEARCH GPS£289.99This businesslike rubberised watch will suit the surfer who wants to rip the gnarliest swells in the boneyard, but also recognises the importance of preparation, safety and data. You can survey your performance on satellite mapping, track your speed against your companions’ and access real-time tide data, all on your salt-crusted wrist.SEALIFE MICRO HD£580This smaller model in SeaLife’s range of underwater cameras works 60 metres below, thanks to its sealed body. The flash, which clips on to the base will help illuminate the dusky depths.E-TECH SURFBOARDSFROM $575 (£370)Surfboard makers are notorious for their wasteful processes and noxious materials.E-tech, based in California, claims to be the first “board shaper” to avoid all petrochemicals, glass fibre and carbon fibre, using plant resins instead.POWERED SURFINGFROM £8,000To the disgust of surfing purists, a number of companies are racing to develop the first successful motorised surfboards. A Czech company calledJetSurfhas designed one with a two-stroke engine, while an electric German model, calledLampuga, sells for a modest €14,000.
As musicians tip-toeing playfully along the analogue/digital divide, Metronomy sum up pop music’s conflicted relationship with technology. In the mid-2000s, they were the epitome of an electronic act: three guys behind electric keyboards, playing to a laptop backing-track.NMEdescribed their second album as “an electro record” featuring “synthetic Tetris wonk-pop” and “psycho speed-synths”, and they became famous for performing with pressure-sensitive lights strapped to their chests: a comic touch that seemed to announce that they were a band of the digital age, and not afraid to laugh about it.Since then, however, Metronomy seem to have moved steadily back in time. After recruiting a drummer and bassist in 2009, the band began appearing in matching uniforms – rich burgundy blazers, pressed white slacks – as if to summon memories of the Temptations or early Beatles photographs, and their music took on a more period tint. The transformation culminated in the release of their fourth album, last year’sLove Letters.“I think the paranoid part of me thought that people had preconceptions about a band like Metronomy,” says frontman Joe Mount, “that we were just a ‘modern band’, that anyone could make that kind of music. I wanted to prove something to myself as well.” Comprising 10 rowdy, yearning love songs, each from a single recorded take,Love Letterswas recorded at Toe Rag, a studio in east London equipped with antique 8-track tape recorders, a mixing desk from the late 1950s and no computer screens at all. A strange achievement for a band once considered part of the “nu-rave” scene.Toe Rag studios in Hackney, East London.Photograph: Katherine Anne Rose for the ObserverMount admits thatLove Letterswas “wilfully backward” – a reactionary experiment in an inescapably digital time – and much pop music could be described the same way. A medium in constant pursuit of a new sound, pop demands ceaseless innovation, but it can also be profoundly nostalgic, even in its attitude to the same technology that allows it to develop. Rock music relies on the rough gusto of valve amps and ‘50s guitars; house DJs strive for the home-grown vinyl sounds of ‘80s Chicago; hip hop reveres, and constantly samples, its own old-school.Nevertheless, thanks to the internet and rapid advances in software, almost all pop music is written, recorded, produced, broadcast and consumed on computers. Digital audio workstation (DAW) software such as Avid Pro Tools or Apple’s Logic Pro – the engine-rooms of most recording studios – allow users to simultaneously edit more than 100 audio tracks, adjust pitch and timing and add an infinite variety of effects. Reams of instrument samples and software synthesizers can be downloaded for a pittance which, to the lay ear at least, are barely discernable from the real thing, and modern musicians are as likely to spend their time mastering Lexicon’s PCM Native Reverb as they might practising their finger-picking.Even a record such asLove Letters, however analogue and untampered-with, will have reached most listeners as an MP3, its analogue wave-form translated into a binary, digital signal. Many modern pop songs could be compared to sepia-tone photographs shot on the latest digital SLR; created by virtue of sophisticated digital innovation, but artificially tinted with the sense of an analogue past. Indeed, often the newest technology is put in service of the old, as software instruments and digital sound modelling strive to re-create vintage jazz-organs, ancient microphones, or that ineffable thing called “the ‘80s”.Related:Love Letters review – Metronomy add 60s songwriting to their 80s synthsMetronomy are aware of this paradox, and thoughLove Lettersearned the band their highest chart position to date, the success of the experiment hasn’t made them Luddites. “It wasn’t an indictment of digital recording,” says bassist Olugbenga Adelekan, “it was just a different challenge”. Far from being dewy-eyed about vintage musical processes, Metronomy see their career as a careful negotiation of the boundary between their musical roots and the unavoidable frontier of the new. “You can’t stop it,” says Adelekan, “so there’s no point worrying about it.”Aside from the development of DAWs such as Pro Tools and Logic, which grow cheaper and more efficient every year, digital development has come to bear on practically every corner of the musician’s routine. On stage, even a band with a traditional guitar-bass-drums setup might rely on tiny, fitted in-ear monitors, each running on a separate frequency from a digitised sound module. The loudspeakers beneath their amplifiers might be replaced with simulated equivalents, or amps might be done away with altogether in lieu of sophisticated sound-modelling software. Instruments themselves might be digitally augmented: self-tuning machine heads on the guitars, hybrid triggers compounding the drumskins, pitch-correction and computerised delay on the vocals.The enduring concern is that too much of this technology comes at the price of authenticity. For his 2013 film,Sound City, the former Nirvana drummer Dave Grohl assembled a coterie of diehard rockers, including Mick Fleetwood and Neil Young, to bemoan the passing of a traditional recording studio, blaming in particular the rise of Pro Tools for the drying-up of funds and the death of soul in rock’n’roll. One interviewee goes so far as to say that DAWs have “enabled people who have no business being in bands or in the music industry to become stars”, but this attitude supposes that the pre-digital era provided the optimum conditions for the music industry to thrive. Adelekan is less single-minded: “As a professional musician, I feel doom-and-gloom about the death of the industry – part of the reason why we tour so much is because we make less money from recorded music – but what we’re really talking about is the death of a certain way that people have consumed music which is just a small blip in the bigger picture: the death of the mid-20th century record company model.”Even Anna Prior, Metronomy’s drummer, who describes herself as the band’s “least electronic” component, is philosophical about the future of music. “I feel that if you have an idea for a song and it’s come from somewhere inside you – deep within your core, your brain, your heart, somewhere – and you have the ability to translate that feeling onto any kind of instrument and create a piece of music, that’s authentic,” she says. “It doesn’t matter if it’s all electronic or all analogue or bits and bobs of both.”Metronomy will be supporting Blur in Hyde Park on 20 June as part of theBritish Summer Time festival.Joe Mount – singer and songwriterJoe Mount, wielding the Ibanez RGKP6 guitar.Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the ObserverTesting: theWaldorf Zarenbourgand theHelicon Voicelive 3Working in analogue onLove Letterswas more expensive and much more technically demanding than recording digitally, but working that way you realise how much has changed.When you record digitally, your actions have fewer consequences; you can try anything and have as many undo-button-hits as your cache or your startup disc will allow. That’s an amazing thing, it means you’re not afraid to experiment, but in a way it’s meaningless if you haven’t experienced it the other way.Because the studio is more software-based now, people aren’t really designing instruments for recording, and new keyboards, for instance, are often geared towards performance. The Waldorf Zarenbourg is a really brilliant live keyboard, and it looks incredible, but as soon as you plug it in to record, it didn’t seem to provide anything very distinctive, whereas the famous stage pianos of the 50s and 60s, a Wurlitzer or a Fender Rhodes, gave us a completely different dynamic. The most important thing for me about a new instrument is that it’s made for people who are trying to record and release music, because that’s how it becomes more than just a fun toy.The Waldorf Zarenbourg.When I first started using Logic there were plug-ins that you got for free that you don’t get any more, and if you make the effort to find them again you realise they have their own quality. There’s a burgeoning world of software which is becoming almost collectible – retro software – and these plug-ins are the modern alternative to classic instruments. There’s a soft-synth used in [digital audio workstation] Ableton called NI Massive, for instance, which is basically the soft-synth that shaped EDM (electronic dance music) – producers like Skrillex relied on it. That’s the weird thing: Massive has become the equivalent of the [80s synthesiser] Roland Juno 60 – a modern classic – but it exists nowhere, inside your computer.I feel the same way about pitch correction and vocal effects. Someone who considers themselves a fan of music might see the Helicon Voicelive and say: “Oh that’s not very authentic,” or “Eurgh! Why would you wanna do that?” but I think auto-tune is another great example of a ‘modern classic’ in software. It was invented to be used very subtly to keep people in tune, but singers like Cher and producers like Brian Higgins turned it into something crazy obvious, and now it’s an iconic sound.Olugbenga Adelekan – bass, keysAdelekan with a Korg Volca Bass synth.Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the ObserverTesting: theRoli Seaboardand theContinuum FingerboardPeople talk about finding a new, game-changing musical instrument, but actually it’s happened. Computers and DAWs like Ableton Live have completely transformed the musical landscape, and changed the type of music we hear, the way we compose music, the way we think about music and listen to it. As musicians, we have to think differently about the way people will hear us, so when we release a new album we have to accept that, because most people use Spotify, it’s very unlikely that people will listen to that album start to finish. That situation has made live shows a very important part of Metronomy; you get 45 minutes to take people on an album-like journey that they probably wouldn’t experience at home.It’s always interesting having new gear that can help with that, and I think the two keyboard instruments I tested – the Roli Seaboard and the Continuum Fingerboard – are interesting in the way their interfaces are revolutionary. That’s what makes you play differently, and in doing so you can hit on things you wouldn’t otherwise have found.The Roli is easier to get started with – you can plug it in, install the software and start playing within five minutes. It has a soft, continuous surface, but has raised keys like a piano, so it’s more approachable. It takes some getting used to, though – the sensation of playing it is like pressing into someone’s leg.The Haken Continuum Fingerboard.They both have a high level of optimisation, so you can assign a lot more parameters – how loud and soft they are, how they respond to the way that you play, whether they vibrate when you hold them down. You can control the shape of the sound by the pressure on the keys and how you slide your fingers up and down the board. The Continuum is even more responsive than the Roli – you can assign parameters to three different axes of finger-movement: up and down, left and right, forward and back. It’s very techy – the manual is full of mathematical equations – but there are plenty of presets which you can get to know and then learn to customise. It’s a similar concept to customising a modular synth, but you can go way, way further down into the workings to manipulate the sound, and I think it would be particularly useful for sound-designers and soundscape artists.They’re both interesting additions to a musician’s range, but I don’t know if they’re exactly superseding what’s gone before, and if you’ve got two grand to spend on a Continuum you probably already have quite a nice piano.None of us are analogue purists, but when it comes to new technology, you have to find a way of using it that’s not obvious, that has an individual character to it. That’s all it is, whether it’s a piano, a Stratocaster or a Continuum Fingerboard: are you projecting some kind of personality through it, or are you just hiding behind it?Anna Prior – drums, vocalsAnna Prior plays a hybrid drumkit with a tactile monitor.Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the ObserverTesting: thePorter &amp; Davies BC2andRoland hybrid triggersDrummers are becoming less of a necessity. With the rise of home producing, everyone can write their own beats and create live music with a laptop and a sample pad. You can even make your programmed beats sound human: when it’s all laid out on a grid you can move the kick drum back or forward a tiny bit so it sits just behind the beat rather than straight-on, and it sounds more like a human being playing the drums. There is the argument that says: “Why not just get a bloody drummer to do it?” but it’s easier and you don’t have to pay musicians like me to be in your band.I am more of an analogue drummer. I prefer the feel of hitting a wooden drum with a skin on top, and sometimes I find technology, especially in drums, can overcomplicate things. Drums are very simple, very tribal – they’re a primitive instrument. That said, it’s good to be open to it, and although I don’t know many people who play full electric kits, lots of us use hybrid triggers. The Roland ones are very versatile, they never break, and it’s nice to have that extra beef to your snare, and to be able to incorporate something more unusual into your drumming.We play with in-ear monitors, which are much more efficient than wedge monitors, but it can be acoustically isolating, and I miss feeling the snare drum rattling off the venue wall. That’s what the BC2 “butt-kicker” stool is for. It’s wired up to the kick drum so you can feel the bass right in the pit of your ribcage. My drum tech, Ben, doesn’t like it, he says it rattles his knackers, but that’s what drummers go for: the extra kick up the bum.It’s the same reason why recording in Toe Rag was so magical. We were all in one room together with very few mics, singers in one corner, a brass trio in the other, and we played it all live knowing that would be the finished product. I got quite romantic about it. The scary thing about technology, especially live, is it can so easily screw up. We headlined a festival in France, in a big square with lots of people. We were still using a piece of software called Mainstage at the time, to do backing tracks, and it just crashed, and we had to leave the stage. We were off stage for about 15 minutes, but it felt like a lifetime. We saw the funny side in the end, but after that, something changed, I think.Oscar Cash – keys, guitarsOscar Cash gets to grips with the Roli Seaboard.Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the ObserverTesting: theIbanez RGKP6and theTronical tuning systemThe beauty of technology is that, whether you like it or not, it makes music a lot more accessible to everyone. When I was a teenager, the only way to record was on a 4-track tape machine – I had to go to my friend’s house down the road to see a computer - whereas the kids of today can produce whole tracks on their own. We’ve always got a kick out of the electronic side of things, and even when we were recordingLove Lettersyou can detect that. There’s a part of Joe’s mind that’s deep-rooted in using a computer – producing and layering tracks, doing interesting things with keyboards and samples – and on the new album I can hear that part of his mind working. I hope we’ll take something from the analogue experience. It’s fun to be under a bit of pressure and, unlike digital recording, you don’t have the luxury of being able to try everything out, which means you probably end up making better decisions.I’m not really waiting for a grand new musical instrument to come along, but maybe that’s just because I’m not such an inventor. The Ibanez RGKP6, for example, which is an electric guitar embedded with a Korg Kaoss Pad synthesiser, might seem like just two instruments randomly stuck together, but it only takes someone to come along with the right mindset to do something interesting with it. I see it as something quite camp and glam – you hit a note, let it ring and then WIAOW! Synthesise it! That’s the obvious way of playing it, but if something great was going to happen with that guitar, you probably wouldn’t see it coming, would you?You want these instruments to allow you to be more imaginative, and that would be my concern about modelling guitars like the Line 6 Variax, which replicates the sound of existing guitars. It’s essentially just a set of electronic presets, and it’s the stuff outside the presets where something fun and new can really happen.The Tronical tuning system.Photograph: PRI’m in two minds, as well, about the Tronical robotic tuning system. We were amazed when we first started messing around with it, and I don’t object to the idea of automatic tuning – I don’t think it’s unhealthy. I did slightly worry, though, that the technology might not quite be totally reliable yet. After a while it started responding less quickly, so I don’t know if I’d want to rely on it on stage. Even so, I think that same technology, used in a different way or approached with a different attitude, could provide something really cool to a guitarist – switching between tunings and drifting in and out of tune. You can program it yourself, so maybe that’s where it gets more exciting.NEW GADGETS TO BRING THE MUSICAL FUTURE INTO YOUR FRONT ROOMKorg Cliphit, £99Acting like a DIY hybrid drum kit, the Cliphit comes with three little spring-loaded sensors, wired up to a small central dome. By attaching the clips you can turn your nearby furniture, crockery, relatives etc into functioning drums, with 11 preset kits to choose from. The unit has its own speaker, but you could run it into a hi-fi if you really despise your neighbours.Keith McMillen QuNeo, £159Much like any other small midi controller, the buttons on the QuNeo can be programmed to trigger sounds via USB from a computer or tablet. What sets it apart is the buttons themselves, which are highly sensitive and respond to pressure and multi-touch, and can be subdivided to perform several separate functions.Jam Hub, £360In a band, but don’t want to pay £20 an hour to rehearse in a miserable, lager-stained dungeon? The Jam Hub is a space-age crescent workstation that allows up to seven people to plug in and rehearse together wearing headphones. Each band member can perfect their own mix, eliminating the risk of “volume wars”. None too sociable, though.Jamstik, £219.95The Jamstik is a bit like an electric guitar with the body hacked off and the neck chopped in half. It has real strings, and detects fingering across its five frets with infrared sensors so there is something of its predecessors. An interesting addition to the world of midi controllers, which is dominated by keyboards and sample-pads.Little Bits synth, £99Pitched at children, the Little Bits synth kit is a marvellous entry point for anyone curious about the internal circuitry of an analogue synthesiser. The components, which fit together magnetically, are based on the electrics inside classic Korg synths, and include a step sequencer and two oscillators. Like a chemistry set for musical gear-heads.Novation Launchpad Mini, £69The market is flooding with purpose-built controllers for Ableton Live, the hip, colourful DAW beloved of DJs and live producers. This is among the cheapest and simplest – a grid that syncs neatly with the software, whose 64 pads can act as sequencers, triggers and sliders.Teenage Engineering Pocket Operator, £49These stripped-back, calculator-sized digital synths, designed in conjunction with a Swedish denim brand, are less frivolous than they look. Cheap and highly functional, they can be daisy-chained together to provide beats, bass and a lead line. The functions of the synth are visualised in twee cartoons.Rode iXY mic, £139This perpendicular pair of directional condenser microphones helps you make the most of the impressive audio software available on iOS, providing professional quality stereo input in a durable, interference-proof unit. It’s expensive, but it’s highly efficient for on-the-fly recording. Useful for journalists, too.Yamaha THR10, £217This comely “desktop amp” is the size of a loaf of bread, but considerably higher-tech. There’s a tuner, a metronome, USB input and on-board setting memory, but the main draw is the “amp-modelling”, which mimics classic valve amplifiers. Turn a dial and – in theory – it instantly becomes a Fender Twin, a Marshall Plexi or even a bass amp.Pedaltrain Volto, £79An ingenious and discreet on-stage solution, this tiny white battery can power a chain of five guitar pedals for up to 36 hours, making life easier for anyone who wants to play away from a mains supply. So it’s great for the tour bus, or a marquee or, you know, the doorway of Superdrug on Saturday afternoon. If you’re big time.
Peugeot 308 SW GT Blue HDi 180Price from £17,145MPG 88.2Top speed up to 132mphWhen was the last time you hit the brakes? I mean really hit them? Stamped so hard that you might have kicked your foot through the floor? I don’t think I ever truly have… until last Sunday.I really didn’t see the other guy. He was in a road-coloured Golf. (I’ve never understood why anyone thinks that a car the exact near-invisible shade of crumbling tarmac would be a good idea. It’s auto-camouflage. I say: “Ban grey cars!”) Anyway, it was his right of way, but blimey he was shifting. He hammered straight through the junction, oblivious of me or anything else. And there I was one moment cruising along, glancing to my right, left hand reaching for the gear stick, the next a reflection on the bonnet, a sense of movement in the corner of my eye… and from somewhere deep in my subconscious my body took over, like an airbag going off in my frontal lobe. Before I knew it my foot had shot out and I’d jumped on the brake pedal and… sickening noise of screeching rubber.And that’s the thing about heavy braking – you only really think about how effective it isafterit’s done its job and saved you. The car stopped almost instantly, burying its nose in the road like a race horse face planting over a Grand National fence. My wife lurched forward with such force she’s had a seatbelt-shaped bruise across her collarbone all week. The kids in the back screamed. Maps, sunglasses, coffee cups flew. But we stopped. And we missed him.Rear view: the 308 is available both as an estate (SW) or a saloon.So I can tell you with complete assurance that the brakes on thisPeugeot 308 SW GTwork bloody well. The stopping power is provided by a Bosch 9CE unit which controls the effort across all four wheels – the 30mm-thick discs being gripped by the floating callipers with unshiftable 60mm pistons. Hopefully you’ll never need to test them for yourself.What about going forward? The Peugeot 308 had quite a year in 2014. It was named European car of the year, so it makes a lot of sense for Peugeot to seize its moment with a performance GT model. The car comes in both hatchback and SW body styles – SW is Peugeot’s word for an estate. Both come with styling tweaks such as a revised lion on the bonnet, snazzy LED running lights, lacquered door mirrors, special 18in “Diamant” wheels (they’re heavily grooved so they look like you’ve graunched them along the kerb before you’ve even hashed up your parking).Inside story: the plush interior.Photograph: PRThe big points of the GT, however, are the chassis modification which creates a lower, more dynamic ride: lower = faster = cooler in car land; and the new series of mega-efficient, super-clean engines – the 1.6-litre BlueHDi 120 does an almost unbelievable 88.2 miles to the gallon with the merest whiff of CO2, just 85g per km.Inside it feels pretty posh. Peugeot is determined to capture the high ground of the premium market and offers a penthouse interior and lavish gadgetry at (not quite) basement prices. The i-Cockpit works well – a single button and touchscreen replace the rash of controls you normally see breaking out on consoles. It’s clever and sophisticated stuff, but it wouldn’t have looked so good if that Golf had ploughed through the middle of it.The chain gangBreaking the hour record with Muc-Off.When Sir Bradley Wiggins made history yet again as he smashed the hour record, few people will have appreciated the attention to detail that went into the feat. ButMuc-Offhad more insight than most. It was the Dorset-based business who provided the chain for the attempt. In all they spent many hours and £6,000 perfecting the links for Wiggo’s ride. They started by grading 30 Shimano Dura-Ace chains on their specialist lab equipment. They then selected the fastest, most efficient chains which were then deep cleaned and treated with a groundbreaking new formula. This formula is essentially the world’s poshest lube and keeps friction to an absolute minimum. The equipment used to provide the quantitative data is called CLOD – Chain Lube Optimisation Dynamometer. And it was this know-how that helped Wiggo achieve his incredible record at the Lee Valley VeloPark – 54.526km (33.88 miles) in 60 minutes. Muc-off is more usually associated with bike-cleaning products, but I can’t imagine Brad bothered to clean his wheels after this ride.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
GET CREATIVEUsing fashion and crafts to teach tech skillsEnthusing kids, and girls in particular, about electronics can be tough, but creative technologists Nicole Messier and Joselyn McDonald think they have the answer. Tapping into the zeitgeist for wearable tech, they’ve launched aKickstarter campaignto create kits and workshops that teach electronic design through fashion, art and craft projects. Their “blink blink creative circuit kits”, which will ship in December if the funding goal is reached, include tools, materials, online video tutorials and a booklet of project ideas, most of which seem to involve putting LEDs into things. Pledging $35 (£23) will get you started with light-up origami.The Screenstick joystick for smartphones and tablets.Photograph: PRGAMINGStick-on stick offers a handle on the actionThe imprecise virtual gaming controls used on smartphones and tablets are fine for your typical button-masher, but are pretty irksome for flight simulators and other antics where accuracy is paramount.Screenstickis a gadget that clings to the screen of your device using suction cups while a soft, conductive pad – linked to an aluminium joystick – presses on areas of the touchscreen resulting in a highly sensitive controller. It has two different stick types and costs $24.90 (£16.25).The Lumigraphe camera obscura.Photograph: PRPHOTOGRAPHYGet hipster-tastic shots with camera obscuraIf you’re looking to add an artsy flair to your photographs without resorting to Instagram, try out the Lumigraphe camera obscura – an updated take on a centuries-old concept. Light passes through the box’s front lens and is projected upside-down on to the inside-back of the chamber. To capture the image, the Lumigraphe simply uses your smartphone. A nifty companion app can then be used to fix the orientation of the image, and also offers a glut of other video-tweaking tools. The results are hazy, dream-like photographic shots befitting any hardcore hipster. Currently up for crowdfunding onKickstarter, backers can get a Lumigraphe of their very own for €90 (£65) with shipping expected to be launched in December.The SensorWake fragrant alarm clock.Photograph: PRFRAGRANT ALARMWake to the scent of croissants and coffeeThough Smell-O-Vision didn’t catch on, French inventor Guillaume Rolland is scenting success with his “olfactory alarm clock”: the SensorWake Kickstarter campaign smashed through its €50,000 (£36,500) goal in just four days. Choose from a selection of odour capsules, including espresso, hot croissant and peppermint, and when the morning hour cometh a tempting waft will be pumped out by the clock which, allegedly, is enough to rouse you from your slumbers. Still open for funding, backers pledging €80 (£52) or more will get their hands on a SensorWake when it ships in November.The Ecocapsule environmentally friendly home.Photograph: PRGREEN LIFEEggsterrestrial living in the EcocapsuleWhen aliens land, chances are they’ll arrive in something that looks like theEcocapsule: an environmentally friendly portable house from Bratislava-based company Nice Architects. An energy independent pod powered by a wind turbine and solar panels, the capsule is shaped to optimise rainwater collection, while filters ensure the water can be put to good use. The pod can apparently be “shipped, airlifted, towed or even pulled by a pack animal” making it portable whatever your horsepower. A prototype was unveiled at Pioneers Festival in Vienna last month, and the first consumer Ecocapsule is expected to go on sale in 2016, with pricing yet to be released.
What a beast, what a gigantic monument to shininess. When they parked the Toyota Hilux Invincible X outside my house, my first worry was I might need planning permission. It has a massive, open flatbed with a flap-down back door, along the lines of a classic pickup, with extra bling. I texted my mother a picture of it to ask if she needed anything. “Can I have seven labourers from the 1930s?” she said. “I have work they could do and crusts of bread.” Seven cases of wine didn’t even leave a trace on its capacity. I stuck the kids in the back. They begged me to drive down the road. I realised how illegal that was, and how much the world had changed.It has legitimate seats as well, of course: a double cab and four seats. Imagine yourself in a regular car, with a huge other car stitched on to the back. There is nothing obnoxious, jerky or hard to control, but it’s unlike anything else, even any other SUV, I can think of. It has a 2.8-tonne towing ability; the sheer bulk of the engineering makes it more like a removal expedition, or driving a ski lift.On a long drive, the slightly sluggish acceleration disappears as a concern – it is plenty poky enough for responsible motorway driving – but the wasted capacity made me feel guilty that I wasn’t transporting a Portaloo and towing a horse.Through no fault of the car, it was extremely unpopular on the oft-medieval streets of London town. The one I drove was tomato red, which didn’t help, making me look like the kind of person who would buy a car to mess up other people’s mornings. The reversing is hair-raising – a camera but no sensor – yet nothing beats the metallic crumple as you hit a pillar and hear your wheel arch peeling off. I drove off panting. The debris was obstructing the wheel, and I had to stop and bend it backwards. I was so far out of my skill zone, I might as well have been skinning a rabbit.Other road users started to avoid me after that. Driving with such an injured car is like walking around with fresh stitches in your forehead. A few strangers nodded and said, “Great car”, and, wracked with guilt at what I’d destroyed, I’d poke my head out the window and yell, “When you say ‘great’, do you really mean ‘red’?”It’s the most CO2I’ve ever spewed out, with the least to show for it. If you accept, though, that it will make sense only with three tonnes of burden, you will take more pleasure from the drama.Toyota Hilux Invincible X: in numbersPrice£23,009 as shown (double cab auto; prices start at £17,759)Top speed109mphAcceleration0-62mph in 12 secondsCombined fuel consumption32.8mpgCO2emissions203g/kmEco rating3/10Cool rating7/10
When the chief executive of Twitter announced he was stepping down on Thursday, staff knew there was only one way to mark his surprise departure. A hashtag on the social network was created – #thankyoudickc – for colleagues to lavish praise on Dick Costolo, a former standup comedian turned Silicon Valley entrepreneur. “140 characters certainly not enough #thankyoudickc,” said one employee.In his nearly five years in the job, Twitter has grown from a few million users to 302 million. Why then would the 51-year-old leave one of the most high-profile jobs at one of the tech industry’s brightest shining stars? Despite his popularity and success in helping the company mature, Costolo has always been caught between conflicting visions of what Twitter is capable of being: a social utility that promises to be a democratic civic space for all, or a commercial service.Related:Dick Costolo: Twitter unfollows the leader as social milestones are missedAs soon as Twitter became a public company in November 2013, investors started to push for strategies for aggressive growth and the requisite lucrative revenue plans. Wall Street wanted and expected Twitter to match Facebook for impact, scale and ambition. Twitter should be a billion-user business, investors argued, distinct from Facebook in its openness and an attractive platform for brands and marketers.Yet comparisons to Facebook, in those terms of strategy, scale and revenue, have not served Twitter well. Costolo and Jack Dorsey, the co-founder who is taking over as interim chief executive, have both insisted the move was not connected to Twitter’s recent financial results,which saw those user numbers grow just 4.86%. But while leaving might have been a decision made by Costolo, it is set in the context of an ongoing problem in attracting and keeping new users, and the revenue implications that come with that.Twitter accounts for 1.6% of the critical US digital advertising market – which is worth $50.73bn (£32.75bn) – compared with Facebook’s 7.6%. And when it comes to the fast-growing mobile market, Twitter accounts for 3.6% of ads on US phones and tablets against Facebook’s 18.5%.A hashtag was created – #thankyoudickc – for colleagues to lavish praise on Dick Costolo, the former standup comedian turned Silicon Valley entrepreneur.Photograph: Jae C. Hong/APChris Sacca, a major investor in Twitter and other technology companies,wrote about the company’s challengesearlier this month: “Twitter has failed to meet its own stated user-growth expectations and has not been able to take advantage of the massive number of users who have signed up for accounts and then not come back.”He was critical of the company’s shortcomings in certain advertising categories that meant that its financial results kept disappointing Wall Street analysts. “In the wake of this, Twitter’s efforts to convince the investing community of the opportunity ahead fell flat. Consequently the stock is trading near a six-month low, well below its IPO closing day price, and the company is suffering through a seemingly endless negative press cycle.”Twitter has also been cautious and conservative in imposing advertising products on users that feel ownership of their feeds, yet at the same time has failed to exploit and explore the potential of the medium. Unlike Facebook, Twitter has become the place people go for commentary around live events, whether football finals, TV talent shows or election debates. But Twitter has added very little to help people get the most from these events; a gaping commercial opportunity missed.Twitter has also suffered damage to its reputation because of a perception that it hasn’t been able to eliminate abuse and threats of violence, often directed at women and minorities. For his part, Costolo was the first technology chief to address the issue publicly, albeit through a leaked internal memo in which he frankly admitted that “we suck at dealing with abuse”. He said he would take personal responsibility, but while the company made modest improvements to the reporting procedure, abuse has proved very hard to stamp out.facebook interactiveTwitter’s greatest assets are its openness, simplicity and brevity, where Facebook is overwhelming, comprehensive and superficial at the same time. The constant comparisons with Facebook – which has 1.44 billion users to Twitter’s 302 million – seem to have undermined Twitter’s confidence in itself and its own vision.Where the selective friendship groups of Facebook make sense (to varying degrees) to new users, Twitter can be more intimidating. Yet the 140-character simplicity of Twitter’s platform and the opportunity potential to be the “civic square” of popular debate offers just as much value and, usually, less indulgent conversations. Historic messages are allowed to fade in Twitter, more like real-life conversations – rather than adding to an ever increasing to-do list, like email.Whatever its advantages, Twitter is certainly less mainstream than Facebook. So while it is under pressure to achieve the same growth and advertising revenues as Facebook, it is also accused of being too niche, beloved as it is by journalists and marketers. Those who have stuck it out through the awkward initiation period on the social network are loyal and very active; the problem for those first joining Twitter is to work out who to follow, how to find people and exactly what users should be tweeting to the world.For journalists, Twitter as both a newsgathering and news broadcasting tool has become invaluable. There are also many features media organisations and others would pay for that Twitter hasn’t begun to test out, such as comprehensive access to the archive of tweets, or lists of experts to follow on a topic that would be otherwise difficult to source.Whoever becomes Twitter’s new boss is unlikely to stray far from the strategy already set out by its board. The social network needs to do more to keep new users by showing off its key features and expanding tutorials and step up to its responsibility to support users who suffer abuse and aggressive trolling on the service. But Twitter cannot succeed if it defines itself against Facebook; the network and its investors need to have more confidence in its unique qualities.
Most days at midday, Uber’s nondescript office in London’s King’s Cross opens its doors and dozens of men clutching sheaves of driving licences and insurance documents pour in. Many are first- or second-generation immigrants from places such as Afghanistan, Poland, Somalia and Nigeria eager to sign up to drive for the US tech company, whose phone-based minicab-hailing app has transformed the taxi industry in 58 countries.Related:Uber whistleblower exposes breach in driver-approval processIt has also created for its investors – including Goldman Sachs, Google andTravis Kalanick, its 38-year-old founder – a fortune these drivers can only dream of.On paper,Uberhas been valued at more than $40bn (£26bn) while some drivers say they can work a 60-hour week and still struggle to make the minimum wage. Uber is expanding fast in the UK. It has 15,000 drivers in London and has secured licences to operate in 16 other locations, including Bristol, Birmingham, Leeds and Newcastle, as well as smaller places, such as Windsor, Solihull and Wakefield.Uber’s “disruptive technology” was first launched in San Francisco in 2009 and came to London in 2012. It has seen thousands of drivers desert existing minicab firms. They are following an exodus of customers attracted by the phone app’s method of speedily connecting you with a driver nearby who will take you to your destination at a staggeringly cheap rate.Consider two taxi fares. London King’s Cross to City airport: £21. City airport back to King’s Cross: £42. The first was an Uber, the second, a black cab. Same route, same comfort – but half the price with Uber.Kalanick has said Uber wants to have 42,000 drivers on London’s streets by next March – a sixfold increase on last September – as it pushes for a greater slice of the market. It looks highly ambitious, especially since the mayor, Boris Johnson, announced in March a curb on new private-hire driving licences.Even so, it has transformed the taxi business hugely already. For months, black-cab drivers in London have waged a vocal campaign against Uber, claiming it should be regulated as stringently as them. In April, around 1,000 cabbies blockaded the streets around the offices of the regulator, Transport for London. Uber’s progress has seen the number of people signing up to learn “the knowledge” to become a black-cab driver fall by a third from 2012 to 2014.But now there are signs Uber is facing an uprising from within, and concerns raised by some Uber drivers aboutpossible vulnerabilities in the company’s handling of essential paperworkare just one part of it.One night, late in May, in a windowless basement in Euston, 40 Uber drivers gathered to plot a fightback against the company’s policies. Driver after driver spoke passionately about their struggles working on the Uber system. They complained of falling pay, a lack of response from Uber to problems with difficult passengers, and a constant fear of being blocked from the system, especially if a customer complained.They are yet another group of workers in 21st-century Britain anxious about their precarious employment status. One driver, Nizam Uddin, called for Uber drivers to unite.“Remember, we are the assets of the company and if we are not valued and we get the drivers together, does Uber really think it can operate?” he said. “We need to get our drivers together, make a voice for ourselves.”Rayne, another Uber “partner”, rallied the assembly in hyperbolic tones to no longer let Uber treat them “like dogs”.Some drivers have tried to organise a switch-off, in which hundreds of them would gather, turn off their apps and so deprive Uber’s network of its lifeblood. But it hasn’t happened yet and is a big risk as Uber drivers are self-employed and can easily be starved of work if the company, which links customers to drivers while taking a 20-25% cut, chose to block them.“One reason they are scared is, the vast majority of people in the private-hire industry are second- or third-generation immigrants,” said Rayne. “What comes with that is not just responsibility for family here, but for family back home, sometimes half a village. If they stand up to an operator and are struck off, it will not just be them and their children who suffer but their family back home, too.”London cabs during a protest against Uber Technologies Inc.’s car sharing service in LondonPhotograph: Bloomberg/Getty ImagesUber is not a conventional taxi company. The drivers can work as much or as little as they like. They pay commission of 20% or 25% to Uber on each fare, depending on whether they are driving a basic or a luxury car, but otherwise the money is theirs, after costs including insurance, car rental and fuel. Customers hire drivers through Uber’s app, which manages the payments. Uber is essentially a go-between.“We are a marketplace, we have customers and drivers,” said Jo Bertram, the company’s regional director for the UK, Ireland and Nordic countries. “If drivers didn’t prefer the economic opportunities and flexibility they have with us, they would leave or work more with other operators. I absolutely believe it is an attractive opportunity. The average Uber driver working full-time will take home £35,000 to £40,000 a year after our commission, prior to costs. It is an attractive opportunity.”She said drivers were “definitely earning well above the living wage in London and well above the minimum wage”.The Guardian spoke to two drivers who said they earned less – one said he worked 90 hours a week for the equivalent of £6.44 an hour after Uber’s commission and costs, which is below the minimum wage of £6.50 an hour. Another, Terry Hoy, said for a 65-hour week he netted £6.30 an hour.Uber said it runs lessons to help drivers maximise their income on the system and has negotiated some discounts for drivers on costs such as insurance and car rental.Some regulators around the world have struggled with the concept. Uber was banned for a period in Delhi after one of its drivers was accused of rape; its services uniting customers with drivers who do not have taxi licences have been banned in Germany; and authorities in the Japanese city of Fukuoka cut short a pilot of the system. But many customers have been impressed by the speed of the technology and cheapness of the fares, and the company’s valuation continues to rise.“It will change the taxi market permanently, but nobody quite knows how,” saidChristian Wolmar, a transport analyst who is running to be Labour’s candidate for London mayor.A future step could be driverless cars, and Uber is investing in the technology, which Bertram said would not be a reality for at least a decade. Until then, it insists drivers are its greatest asset.“We absolutely care about the driver,” Bertram said. “They are the engine of our business.”
