Fashion with a bite, indeed! We've just posted video of theleopard-print taserin action.What I didn't realise until I watched is that when tasering your victim, you are supposed to abandon your expensive gadget on the floor and run off. Our leopard-print bedecked saleswoman also cheerfully explains the taser is being marketed to women this year, in pink, hot pink and red "for Valentine's Day".Why do gadgets for girls have to be pink? And why would you give someone a taser for Valentine's Day?Also from CES: Bobbie Johnson's report ongreen technology,why size mattersandSony's dancing speaker. Plus Bill Gates'final speechand thecrowd's reaction.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:Microsoft,BillGates,tasertechnorati tags end
Ahead of MacWorld, we always try to give readers of the print section something special to whet the appetites properly. (See "Behind the magic curtain" from 2006 and "What Jobs told me on the iPhone" from 2007, for starters.) This year, we asked a panel of former Apple employees, analysts and expert observers to answer the following questions. (We did ask some current Apple employees. They said no.)Their edited responses will be in print tomorrow (with the full text on the site tomorrow; it runs about 6,000 words in all). But before then, have a stab yourselves at answering them. Try to be brief. You've got the advantage over the others: they replied before the Xserves and Mac Pros were released. Their advantage, though, is they know this area. Do you?(Update:theedited answers are online.)So:* What do you think Apple will announce at Macworld in (a) hardware (b) software (c) services? * What do you think Apple *won't* announce (but others think it will) at Macworld? * What has been the smartest thing Apple has done in the past year, and why? * What has been the dumbest thing Apple has done in the past year, and why? * Who do you think will be Apple's most dangerous competitors in the coming two years, and why? * What would be the best acquisition Apple could make in the next year, and why? * Think forward two years, to Apple, January 2010. What do you think will be the biggest difference from Apple right now? * How important is the Mac computer line to Apple's future, as the iPod and iPhone generate more of its revenues and profits? * When do you think the next version of Mac OSX will debut? * When do you think Steve Jobs will cease to be chief executive at Apple? Any reason why? (Month/year) * Strengths/weaknesses/opportunities/threats is a classic way to analyze a company's position. What, do you think, are Apple's?(A brief update: none of the respondents in the article is me or Jack, and I don't think it would add anything to have them - the people chosen have a much better focus. I've mademy predictions for this yearalready.)
In an interview withearth2tech, General Motors vice president of the research and development centre Lawrence Burns said that one of the most significant factors in fuel efficiency for cars is the weight of safety features. If technology could produce cars that don't crash, the weight of a 4,000lb car could be cut to as little as 1,500lb - that's about two-thirds of a ton, in metric.Late braking is a major cause of traffic congestion, so technology can help by giving the driver advance notice of problems. Cruise control is another factor already in use; a GM V8 engine uses double the cylinders from 65mph to 75mph. And on another efficiency point: gas engines are separate from the electrical drivetrain. That means the engine can be optimised to run at a constant speed and because there is no need for transmission, the car's power is consistent.Burns said the motor industry needs to move to new fuel sources likehydrogen cellsand ethanol because "the power grid has surplus power that equals 40% of the miles driven in the US".After that interview, GM's chief executive Rick Wagoner, in hiskeynote CES speech, said that by 2012, half the company's cars will use Flex-fuel energy alternatives: "All the factors point to a convergence of the automotive and electronics industries that is literally transforming the automobile.""One of the next big steps is to connect automobiles electronically to keep them from connecting physically. We are working our way up the technology ladder."The robot car is on the way - in fact new cars already contain more electronics that steel. And GM will soon announce a plug-in electric car, said Wagoner.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:CES,GM,RickWagonertechnorati tags end
A PR called me yesterday to ask what I thought about the green efforts of mobile firms. I said I was spectacularly unimpressed, for the most part.So of course this morning, I find this onCNet- the Nokia 3100 Evolve, made from 50% renewable bio-materials and with an ultra-efficient charger that uses 95% less power.The spec set is pretty standard - 1.3 megapixel camera, Bluetooth, music player, FM radio and microSD slot - and the design is basic and simple. I'd imagine Nokia's market research told them that people likely to scout out a more eco-friendly phone wouldn't want a high-end device. More energy and resource-efficient devices shouldn't be optional - they should be the norm.Dean Takahashi, the tech correspondent at the San Jose Mercury News, got it right: "Some products marketed as green are not green at all, and the offset programs make you wonder if that's the only solution for an enterprise that is fundamentally wasteful."The energy-saving multi-device chargerGreen Plug is designed to relieve the headache of lugging round multiple charger cables by combining multiple USB hubs in different sizes on one charger unit. It's a great idea and an elegant solution. And perhaps best of all, Green Plug is very power efficient, and includes software that monitors power consumption and display usage stats.The unit can save power by detecting when your phone is fully charged and switching off power, and it can also handle different power levels for different devices. And if that wasn't enough, the manufacturers are talking to mobile manufacturers next month. Great stuff, thanks to andCNet.The corn-made laptopNot a universal welcome for Fujitsu's laptop made of 50% corn. earth2tech said it won't biodegrade any quicker because the other 50% is still made from petroleum products.Yahoo Techdisagreed, and said they would break down in a matter of months, but they did also say that the corn-based polymer isn't strong enough to make up 100% of the laptop casing - and not fire retardant. That's a problem.Photo:Yahoo TechMore...We've already seen thelaptop-charging bag, but there was also the solar-powered wifi gear byMeraki Networksand chargers fromBetter Energy Systems. AndFreeplay Energy. More on these, alternative batteries andrecyclinggadgets atearth2tech, if Green Tech is your thang.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
There are a surprising number of British media eyeballs on the early stages of the US elections. Reports suggest that people are coming out in droves to participate in caucuses, primaries and polls, particularly populations who've neglected politics before. And this includes a whole raft a newly-eligible voters, many of whom happen to be computer gamers.While it's still too early to suggest who'll be sworn in come 2009, there's still a whole lot of side-taking happening throughout the games blogosphere. Gamepolitics, the most obvious platform, is having a field day publishing satirical casual games, posts about candidate Obama's likeness to Tiger Woods (seriously), and rumours about potential senatorial anti-games candidates.This is undoubtedly a technologically-saturated election. All of the candidates have MySpace pages (demonstrating the lightening speed with which politics adopts new media; where are their Twitter updates for goodness sake?), and with the next few gaming months certain to be hot with the release of the latest episode in a certain controvesry-riding franchise, we can expect to see gaming and techno-morality in a few political broadcasts.So where do the front-runners sit with regards to computer games? This handy primer gives the dirt on their past actions and their current attitudes. Today, the Democrats. Tomorrow, the Republicans.Hillary ClintonNew Hampshire Democrat primary winner Hillary (whatever happened to the Rodham?) Clinton hasnever been a fanof computer games. Two years ago, Sen. Clinton introduced the Family Entertainment Protection Act (FEPA) in the wake of the Hot Coffee incident, to regulate and counteract the effects of violent and sexually-explicit content in digital media. Had it passed, it would have mandated:On-site store managers would be subject to a fine of $1,000 or 100 hours of community service for the first offense and $5,000 or 500 hours of community service for each subsequent offense.The bill would also require an annual, independent analysis of game ratings and require the FTC to conduct an investigation to determine whether hidden sexual content like what was in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is a pervasive problem and to take appropriate action...Finally, the bill would authorize the FTC to conduct an annual, random audit of retailers to monitor enforcement and report the findings to Congress.more information fromgamepoliticsMore recently, in response to aCommon Sense Mediapoll of the attitudes of the candidates to video game entertainment, Clinton argued,"When I am President, I will work to protect children from inappropriate video game content"Barack ObamaThe Iowa caucus winner has suggested on several occasions that gamers are slackers. "It's time to turn off your Game Boys," he said at an Austin, Texas event last February. He's alsoreturned a donationmade by the Electronic Software Association's Doug Lowenstein and has repeatedly argued thatworking harder means playing fewer games.In theCSM poll, Obama promoted industry self-regulation:I would call upon the video game industry to give parents better information about programs and video games by improving the voluntary rating system we currently have. Broadcasters and video game producers should take it upon themselves to improve this system to include easier to find and easier to understand descriptions of exactly what kind of content is included. But if the industry fails to act, then my administration would.Indeed, in the same response, he does hint at federal regulation, and promotes funding research into the "impact of video games on children's cognitive development."John EdwardsEdwards was the likable second to Hillary's first before Obama came along, but his standings in the recent primary and caucus suggest that he may take a back seat in November. However, he too could become a Comeback Kid, so it's worth taking a look at what might happen to games if he gets the keys to the White House.Edwards notablylaunched his campaign inside virtual world Second Life, and like many high-profile areas in this cyber-space, it was subsequentlyvandalised. Otherwise, he's been quiet on the digital entertainment front, with little action in either direction.So it's unsurprising that when the question was posed, point blank, in the CSM poll, he (and his policy-writers) played a cautious, hands-off game; he applauds the work of the internal ratings boards, but suggests that there's much more to do to keep inappropriate content away from kids:If the industry does not continue to make progress in keeping video games with intense violence and adult content away from children, we will need to consider further steps to ensure that parents' decisions about their children's exposure to these games are not being undermined by retailers, advertisers and manufacturers.Of the three Democrats, only Clinton appears to have made this a political issue, and has thought seriously about the implications of interactive media. She's the only one ready to take action, one way or the other. While Obama has despaired at games in the past, both he and Edwards are less explicit about any actions they would take if they were to take up residence on Pennsylvania Avenue next year.Tomorrow, we cover the Republican candidates, but in the meantime, more information on where the candidates stand is available atgamepolitics, in their categoryGame Decision 2008.
Ever since Steve Jobs opened the iTunes Store in Europe (or Yoorp, as it's better known to many Americans) in June 2004, people - and organisations such as Which? - have been complaining about the fact that a track which cost 79p in the UK cost €.99 - which was almost always less than 79p. (And still is, just, as the pound sinks.)Which? complained to the Office of Fair Trading about the disparity, and with customary alacrity the OFTreferredthe matter to the European Commission. Whichgrinds slowly, but exceedingly small. It has threatened Apple with fines (while also making grumbly noises about interoperability between iTunes Store-bought tracks and other digital music players, which seems like less fertile ground).Interestingly, at the same time as this news, the ECis to drop an antitrust caseit was trying to build against Apple and record companies such as Sony BMG, EMI, Warner Music and Vivendi over allegations of unfair pricing and distribution of online music. From the story:The commission's investigation centered on European consumers being charged differing amounts, and having access to different iTunes songs, depending on their location. Both Apple and the record companies were under investigation, though the spotlight was on the record companies for imposing these sales arrangements on the technology company, refusing it pan-European licenses.Fancy that.Anyway, Apple now says that within six months it will lower UK prices to standardise prices around Europe. Well, to be precise, the record labels will lower the price they charge it. From the press release:[Apple] will lower the prices it charges for music on its UK iTunes Store to match the already standardised pricing on iTunes across Europe in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Finland, France, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland and Spain.Great, you say.Apple currently must pay some record labels more to distribute their music in the UK than it pays them to distribute the same music elsewhere in Europe. Apple will reconsider its continuing relationship in the UK with any record label that does not lower its wholesale prices in the UK to the pan-European level within six months.Ah. The iron fist behind the velvet glove. Talking of which.."This is an important step towards a pan-European marketplace for music," said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO. "We hope every major record label will take a pan-European view of pricing."Note the wording, such as the use of "major": does that mean that any independents which don't fall into line (and who make up about 50% of music sales in the UK, unlike the US where they have a smaller share) will get booted off iTunes?It's a victory, of sorts, for consumers, and sort-of for Apple, but it's going to leave some UK record execs feeling rather bitter, I suspect, at a time when they're already having enough shakeups - such as thatat EMI yesterday.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Tuesday January 15 2008The above headline overstated the story below, which said that Paramount might take that course of action, according to some sources, but this was denied by the company.Paramount could become the latest movie studio to withdraw its support for Toshiba's HD-DVD format, dealing a mortal blow to its hopes of becoming the next generation of home video.Reports that Paramount is preparing to announce its full support for the rival Blu-ray disc, which is backed by Sony, could prove the final straw for beleaguered Toshiba in its attempt to control the lucrative high-definition film market.A spokeswoman for Paramount said that the company's "current plan" involved HD-DVD, but the studio could be ready to jump to Sony's Blu-ray format, according to reports.In the short term, a switch by Paramount - which is owned by media group Viacom - would allow Blu-ray to benefit from a string of blockbuster movies due for release by the studio in the coming year, including the return of Harrison Ford as archaeologist action hero Indiana Jones. In the long term it would mean just one major Hollywood studio, Universal, left supporting Toshiba's technology.The war between HD-DVD and Blu-ray has been on the boil for several years without clear signs of a winner emerging. Both formats use new laser technology which allows far greater amounts of information to be stored on a single disc - a development which allows consumers to watch high-definition video at home.The rival systems are incompatible, however, meaning consumers have had to choose which one they would rather use.The confusing situation has been dubbed a rerun of the VHS v Betamax wars of the 1980s, in which millions of unfortunate buyers bought Betamax players shortly before the format became obsolete.HD-DVD, which is mainly supported by computer companies, has been fighting the progress of the more widely supported Blu-ray consortium since the official launch of the two technologies last year.Its hopes took a serious dent last week after a surprise announcement by the Warner Bros studio, which said that it would no longer support both formats - instead opting to sell its movies exclusively on Blu-ray discs in spring.Kevin Tsujihara, the president of Warner Bros Home Entertainment in America, said the decision was driven by an analysis of the market."We looked at and were monitoring what consumers were buying and did a lot of research on HD-DVD, Blu-ray and standard definition DVD," he said."The reasons people weren't buying high-definition players was because they were confused."We were the only studio publishing both formats, but the consumers that were buying were gravitating towards Blu-ray - particularly in the UK and Japan."Toshiba has reacted badly to the  blows, cancelling a press conference due to be held at the industry Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas earlier this week and refusing to talk to the media about the situation.
File this under 'green': Voltaic's new Generator laptop bag has a built-in solar panel that can produce 14.7 watts of electricity in a day to charge your laptop.Engadgetseems to think that you might bet better off carrying a spare battery because it would be hard to get a full day's sun - and anyway, this beast costs $599.Likely scenario for laptop bag: a conference. The only time when you wouldn't be lugging your laptop around indoors would be the night, so that's when you'd be able to set your bag down outdoors for 10 hours and let it charge up. Oh - hang on...But perhaps we should overlook these niggly details, and think about the greater good.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:CEStechnorati tags end
Fans of the Clash, and other music lovers, will no longer be fighting the law every time they fill up their iPod, under government proposals unveiled yesterday.Owners of digital music players will be acting lawfully when they transfer music from their computer to a digital player or copy a CD for their own use, under proposed amendments to bring copyright law into the digital age.Consumers who have been technically breaking the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 by copying tracks from CDs to their PC or digital player, or making an extra copy to play in the car, will now be able to do so for private use. Record labels accept that consumers should not be punished for shifting music from one format to another, but some are concerned it will increase the perception that music can be freely copied with impunity.The minister for intellectual property, Lord Triesman, said: "In an increasingly digital world we need to be sure that our copyright system keeps up with the times and works effectively. This consultation ... explores where the boundaries lie between strong protection for rights-holders and appropriate levels of access for users." Last year's Gowers review of intellectual property recommended the law be relaxed to reflect the march of technology, but also suggested that punishments for large scale piracy be toughened.The proposals suggest a new exemption for parodies of copyrighted works, while changes for libraries would allow for the copying of broadcasts for preservation purposes. Consumers would not be allowed to sell or give away the original once they had copied it.The National Consumer Council's director of policy, Jill Johnstone, said the current situation was "confusing for consumers and it brings the law into disrepute". She said the council supported the changes, but said they needed to be easily understood by consumers. Geoff Taylor, chief executive of the music industry trade body the BPI, said: "We look forward to working with government throughout the consultation; the key thing for us is that any changes to the law achieve the stated aim of clarifying the law for consumers, while not doing harm to rights-holders."British Music Rights, which represents composers and songwriters, said any changes to the law must be "tightly drawn". Legal experts said it made sense to tidy up a law that had been proved impractical and unworkable, but said it could have harmful consequences for a record industry that has been brought to its knees by digital piracy in recent years.Hamish Porter, a partner at law firm Field Fisher Waterhouse, said: "There is a danger that it will be interpreted by the young as a green light to burn CDs for their friends."
The Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas is underway and Bobbie Johnson reports for the show. Plus Aleks and the team discuss the possible death of the HD DVD format, the internet as a utility and find out what programs rub you up the wrong way...·Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes·or download this to your computer·The podcast feed URL·Visit our Facebook group
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday January 24 2008In the article below we said that Amnesty International has warned that Taser guns have been linked to more than 70 deaths in the US. Amnesty International's latest figures show that since 2001 more than 250 people have died after being shot by a Taser gun in the US and Canada. This has been corrected.Deborah Kerr in The King and I recommended whistling a happy tune when afraid, but now fearful Americans can sing along to their favourite tracks while shooting anyone who causes them consternation with a 50,000-volt electric charge.The annual Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, which is expected to receive more than 140,000 visitors this week, is no stranger to bizarre gadgets but the iTaser - as it has been dubbed - must rank as one of the oddest. It combines a Taser stun gun, used by 12,000 law enforcement and security forces, including the Metropolitan police, with an MP3 player and earphones.As to which tracks anyone toting such a device might download on to the 1GB player that is integrated into the gun's holster, anything by Sparks or Frank Zappa must be fairly high on the list.Arizona-based Taser International sells the handheld stun guns under the rather hyperbolic banner of "Changing the World and Protecting Lives". It maintains that the iTaser "allows for both personal protection and personal music for people on the go".According to Rick Smith, founder of the company, "personal protection can be both fashionable and functionable".The company says the new device is particularly aimed at women - with red, pink and even leopard print designs intended to make carrying a stun gun fashionable. A spokesman in Las Vegas said the inclusion of a music player would encourage purchases by women who want a form of self defence while out jogging, but would otherwise choose to take an iPod or other MP3 player with them instead of a weapon."A lot of women aren't going to go into a gun store and feel comfortable enough buying a Taser, so now we have some outdoor companies and dealers - some cellphone places are starting to carry them and hang them next to phones," he said.Half a million Tasers are already in use globally despite warnings from Amnesty International that they have been linked to more than 250 deaths in the US and Canada. According to the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation a further 18 people have died after being stunned by a Taser in Canada.Taser International, however, maintains that the devices merely stun people and, with proper training, are otherwise harmless. The guns shoot two small probes, at speeds of more than 48 metres a second, which are connected to the device by insulated wire. Those probes deliver an electric charge that causes instant neuro-muscular incapacitation, causing the victim to crumple to the floor. They also lose the ability to move for a few seconds.The gun generates a staggering 50,000 volts but the actual ampage - which is potentially very dangerous to life - is a mere 0.0021 amps, while a household plug carries 13 amps. The ampage is so low that the Taser's two lithium camera batteries can stun 100,000 people, but used in a digital camera they would provide just 100 photo flashes.Being hit by a stun gun is, however, a deeply unpleasant experience. Last month a 45-year-old company director, who later proved to be unarmed and innocent, claimed he had been "Tasered" in north London. The first shock caused him to drop to his knees, while a second left him flat on his face with a broken tooth and a further six shocks made him wet himself. The Independent Police Complaints Commission has started an investigation into the incident.Daniel Sylvester, the owner of an east London security firm employing 65 staff to guard council offices, pubs and nightclubs, described the sensation as "like being tortured".Ten police forces in England and Wales are using Tasers. Forces from Devon and Cornwall to north Wales and Northumbria have issued the stun guns to previously unarmed officers.The Met, for instance, started handing out the devices in early December to members of its territorial support group  after training at a specialist centre in Gravesend, Kent. It has pledged that only six officers will be carrying them at any one time in the capital.Asked whether they will be allowed to listen to their favourite tunes while on the beat, or perhaps download the latest police training manuals into their holsters and plug in, a Met spokesman was derisory: "I can honestly say no, we won't be using it. Do you think that would be a good use of public money?"The British public are banned from using Tasers but they are legal in 43 US states where Taser International has already sold 160,000 to private citizens. The American government does not consider Tasers to be firearms.The system does include some safeguards to try to prevent unlawful use, including owner registration and a trace of tiny, uniquely identifiable computer chips left at the scene of a shooting.Shock rock: iTaser playlist&middot; You Shook Me All Night LongAC/DC&middot; Shakin' All OverJohnny Kidd and the Pirates&middot; Danger High VoltageElectric Six&middot; Electric BoogieMarcia Griffiths&middot; Jumpin' Jack FlashThe Rolling Stones&middot; King of PainThe Police&middot; Electric AvenueEddy Grant&middot; State of ShockThe Jacksons&middot; A Big SurpriseSparks
CES - the consumer tech show currently playing in Vegas - has achieved what had seemed impossible. Yup, it has got me interested in the PSP again. Not for anything game related of course - the DS covers all things portable - but theSkypeandBlu-rayannouncements, combined with the splurge of recent PSP/PS3 connectivity updates, have finally started to harness the potential of a device that has never really been stretched.Remember how we all oohed and ahhed at the sexy screen and the shiny blackness? Remember how we got quickly bored of playing PS2 ports? One or two exceptions aside the PSP has never really cut it as a gaming machine. Perhaps this is why Sony has been increasingly emphasising and developing the PSP's broader capabilities. Whatever the reason it has helped the device to finally find a niche. Whether I'll ever make Skype calls from a PSP - unlikely - or watch a Blu-ray movie wirelessly - probably - remains to be seen, but the PSP's future is clearly as a mainstream entertainment device and not as the portable games console we once thought. Or are you still intending to use your PSP for games only?
Sony BMG will be the last of the four music majors to offer tracks unencumbered with DRM (digital rights management) copy-protection, via itsPlatinum MusicPassproduct. But it seems to have done a good job of making the system inconvenient and expensive.So you can just log on and download a few tracks? No such luck. You have to go to a shop, buy a card, enter a pin number, and onlythencan you download the files. But don't throw that useless card away. Sony's Thomas Hesse, President, Global Digital Business &amp; US Sales, says in the press release:The cards themselves are high-quality collectibles featuring artist images and album information. They're a great choice whether you're buying for yourself, or as a gift for occasions ranging from a birthday to Valentine's Day.Sony says later:The cards will be priced at a suggested list retail price (slrp) of $12.99 which will include the complete digital album plus bonus material or, in the case of compilations, extensive track listings. In order get the content from their MusicPass cards consumers scratch the back of their card to unveil their pin number. They then visit MusicPass.com to download their music files and bonus material.But if you have to go to the shop, you might as well buy the original CD and rip it. That will get you a high-quality DRM-free file, and you'll still have a CD you can lend or eventually sell.Also, with the Sony system, you're paying a high price to get the whole CD: you can't just pick one or two favourite tracks.I can see a few people buying them as gift cards, but if you know anyone like that, tell them you'd rather have record tokens!Charles Arthur adds:splendid conversation between a Sony BMG dude touting the things and kid #1 and kid #2at scalzi.com:Kid #2: So to recap, what you've got here is a system that makes people leave their house in order to download music at their house, and makes them go to a store to get music that they could get at the store, somewhere else.
Photo: EngadgetLG has a small ultramobile on its stand, not much bigger than an HTC phone, but running Windows Vista Home Premium. I'm not sure I should call it a UMPC as it has a 4.8 inch WGA touch screen instead of a 7in display. Note the little mouse pad on the top right of the keyboard. Other features include a gigabyte of memory, a 40GB hard drive, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. With the screen closed (it slides over the keyboard), the measurements are 148 x 92 x 29.2mm.AsEngadgetnoiced, this is for the EU, Asia and Canada, not for US users. But no-one from LG could give me a launch date or a price.With something this small, you have to compromise on the quality of he keyboard and the legiility of the screen, and usually you pay more for compactness. But if it's a lot cheaper than anOQO, or whatever, it could find a market.
He may be preparing to relinquish his role as virtual ruler of the hi-tech world, but Bill Gates's vision on the future of the industry still carries weight. So when the soon-to-be-former chairman of Microsoft predicted voice-activated (Microsoft) programs in cars, smart phones that buy your movie tickets, and computerised furniture as he opened the International Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas on Sunday night it was worth taking notes.Delivering the keynote address for the technology world's top trade show for the 11th and final time, Gates said the "first digital decade", centred on the keyboard and the mouse, was over."The second digital decade will be more focused on connecting people," he said, predicting it would also feature progress in training machines to react as people do, with "natural user interfaces" responsive to speech and touch.To demonstrate, he once again showed Surface, a touchscreen coffee table that can interact with devices placed on it - including mobile phones and even household objects. He also described a smart phone which could be asked about a film, then find the closest showing and book you tickets. He said that such technologies could become ubiquitous within a few years.Some may be sceptical as to whether this technology will take off commercially, just as there were sceptics when Gates talked about a world in which entertainment would be delivered via the computer - at his first speech at the ICES in 1994. Few homes had computers then. The success of the home PC and the internet has since silenced his critics and helped Microsoft become one of the most powerful companies in the world. But although it is still the third largest American company by stock market value, it is no longer as dominant as it once was -  with Google and other more internet-focused companies gaining momentum.Typically, Gates used his speech to promote Microsoft and announce a series of deals: to provide the technology to NBC to deliver simultaneous live internet streams from the 2008 Olympics; movie deals with MGM and Walt Disney; and Ford's decision to install voice-activated software in Ford, Mercury and Lincoln vehicles.The normally unassuming software tycoon also bowed to the occasion by parading various high-profile friends and international celebrities, including movie legends Steven Spielberg and George Clooney; music stars Jay-Z and Bono - and even White House hopefuls Barak Obama and Hillary Clinton, who appeared in a comic video on what Gates might do later this year when he steps down from his day-to-day responsibilities at Microsoft after nearly 35 years. Jokes about a political or music career were contrasted with the reality, that he will be spending more time on his philanthropic activities with the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation."The transition has been going very well, and I'll have a few projects," he said, adding that "this will be the first time since I was 17 that I won't have my full-time Microsoft job".As for whether his predictions will come true, his record is mixed. Although his suggestion that 75% of American homes would have home computers by 2010 has already come to pass, his prediction that the problem of unwanted spam email would be eradicated by today seems as far away as ever.Timeline1968Allowed to skip maths classes to learn simple computer programming techniques before going on to Harvard to study for pre-law degree1975Drops out of Harvard to launch partnership with schoolfriend Paul Allen, called Microsoft. The duo start by making programs for popular home computers1980Microsoft approached by IBM to produce operating software for PCs1985-86Microsoft launches first version of Windows. Stock market flotation makes Gates and Allen rich, along with several colleagues1989Windows supplemented by Microsoft Office. Now 90% of the world's computers run Office.1993Microsoft's increasing success pushes Gates's wealth into stratosphere. Forbes magazine names him richest person in world, a position he retains until 20072000US court rules Microsoft is "abusive monopoly". Decision overturned a year later2006Gates announces plans to step down from activities at Microsoft in two years to concentrate on new career as philanthropist2007Billionaire Warren Buffet pledges $1.5bn a year to Gates Foundation, the largest philanthropic gift in history
Two things you might have missed from the CES extravaganza if you really haven't been paying attention. First, BT and Microsoft have snuggled up in a big multimedia bed and are set to offer BT Broadband customers with Xbox 360s the chance to access the BT Vision service from their consoles. This will allow gamers to sample a range of on-demand content including TV programmes, movies and sports events.Users will also be able to employ the voice-messaging and text chat capabilities of Microsoft's machine while enjoying BT Vision services. "For example," explains the helpful press release, "while a TV viewer is enjoying his favorite football game, he can receive a message from a friend inviting him to join a voice chat while watching the game, or they could play a game of their own with EA SPORTS FIFA Soccer." Exciting stuff. And there's more infohere.Meanwhile, PSP is being juiced up with a whole bunch of extra features. Sony is producing a first-party keyboard to allow easier text entry than the on-screen system. That's the least interesting bit. As rumoured for many months, PSP owners will also soon be able to make Skype calls via their handheld - a software update will be available later this month. Furthermore, Sony announced that future Blu-ray movie releases will include lower-resolution versions of the film optimised for PSP. Owners will need to insert the disc into PS3, connect their PSP and download the flick to a memory stick. There's beenspeculationthat the low-res content could also be loaded onto iPods or Zunes.Finally, Sony's PSP navigation package, Go! Explore, is set for a Spring release. Consisting of a GPS receiver and 3D map software, the kit will get you from A-to-B while pointing out sites of interest on the way. It's apparently suitable for both on-foot and car travel, with more expensive bundles including a car adaptor and car mount. Morehere.So, lots of media crossover, lots of convergence, convenience, flexibility... we still prefer good games though, don't we?
Only a day after Intel announced newPenrynversions of its Core architecture,Applehas announced an updated Mac Pro.Intel usually announces new lines with the support of a raft of PC manufacturers, and sometimes a few will sneak out new machines ahead of time. You can understand why Apple wouldn't want to be included in the me-too PC rush, but if it was going to wait a day, why not wait a week forMacworld Expo?Penryn, by the way, is "an unincorporated community in Placer County, California, in the United States. Geographic location is 38.852° N 121.169° W," as anIntel bloggernoted in April last year. (As I blogged at the time, Intel outlined the chips inMarch.)
It doesn't take a crystal ball to see that 2008 is set to be the year Hollywood and consumers go head to head over how we get to watch its output and what we can do with it afterwards. Discussions of the quality of the "product" itself can be left to another forum - after all, with releases like the fourth Indie Jones movie, a Smurfs flick and even a remake of Footloose to look forward to, what can we possibly add here?As anyone who's been on this site before will know all too well, the tedious marketing antagonism that is the so-called high-definition format war has to wind up sooner or later, and we're betting - more accurately, praying - that the armistice will come this year.Whichever side on the largely Japanese-directed campaign (whether it's Blu-ray or HD DVD) comes out smelling of roses, the man or woman in the street is bound to be the real winner and can look forward to the prices of high-definition DVD players tumbling.Lest we forget, when the dust settles and studios start pumping out proper quantities of cheap discs of one stripe or the other (it'll be Blu-ray, by the way - just so you know) we'll finally be able to enjoy the much-trumpeted high-def son et lumière without worrying about the Betamax pratfall of having backed a donkey.Biggest, best and strangestOne piece of kit being shown off at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas this week has been agargantuan plasma television from Panasonic Japanthat kicks sand in the face of the previous Godzillas of the flat TV arena. It seems the increasingly ridiculous micturating contest to see who has the biggest screen has been brought to a head by a 150-inch behemoth that is big enough to show a life-size adult human and God knows how many Smurfs.Sharp's 108-incher doesn't stand a chance against Panasonic's monsterGiven the 42-inch gap between Panny's showboater and the last record holder - a 108-incher from Sharp - we can't see any of the Far-Eastern giants bothering to tilt at this windmill for quite some time.At the other end of the scale, Polaroid Japan has taken aim at the home cinema market in a rather different fashion, with an old-schoolportable DVD player that incorporates a dock for video-friendly iPods. However, the 8.5-inch screen on the ¥28,000 (£130) DPJ-08580B (couldn't they think of a name?) is a scant 5 inches larger across the diagonal than that on an iPod touch, which provokes a little scepticism about Polaroid selling many to Apple fans.Polaroid's DVD player can be attached to the back of a car headrest to pacify kids on long car journeysStill, the player attaches to the back of a car headrest and includes two audio output sockets for plugging in dual headphones, so a few hours of quiet on family car journeys isn't altogether out of the question, assuming an iPod loaded with movies.Cracking down on camsTalk of copying films to a portable device for viewing on the go inevitably raises the old piracy questions: what constitutes a performance, is it ok for me to rip DVDs from my own collection, and are Pirate Bay downloads kosher too?Admittedly, that last one's a little obvious, which is why a pair of Japanese companies are collaborating to crack down on at least one source of illegal P2P movie downloads, albeit an odd one.The NHK-Mitsubishi copy protection plan: it's all perfectly simple if you understand JapaneseJapan's state broadcaster, NHK, and Mitsubishi have developed awatermarking systemthat plugs into digital cinema setups to apply an invisible code that is unique to each showing of each film in any cinema. Their target? Those peculiar individuals who use handheld video cameras to film copies of new movies direct from the cinema screen for distribution online.The fact that their generally atrocious quality means no one with any interest in actually enjoying a particular film bothers to watch such "cams" doesn't seem to bother the combined might of two of Japan's finest.Perhaps someone should explain that the cam copiers mostly do it to gain kudos for being first off the mark after a new release - from their equally sad peers. Mind you, that would require equal doses of realism and common sense - two qualities that are in short supply among media giants right now.
The coolest find of the day: Nitrous Roxide's air guitar gadget.The video explains it all:Sorry to shatter the illusion, but rather than amplifying what you might (want to) hear in your head while air guitaring, the Jada Toys Air Guitar Rocker belt buckle works by detecting the "strums of the air plectrum", asTech Digestexplains.The belt plays the tunes, and all the 'player' has to do is keep the tempo of the song to keep playing, or presumably you'll drift into a different track. The starter kit comes with Deep Purple, Motorhead, Black Sabbath... you get the idea.Count the minutes before this goes massively mainstream. Itwillbe in your stocking next Christmas.
A canine social networking site, a way to improve your vocabulary while preventing starvation and email reminders that nag you to live more ethically: these are just some of the winners of Yahoo'sFinds of the Year 2007competition, an annual search for the most innovative and strange UK contributions to the web.The competition, now in its sixth year, is presided over by a panel of 10 journalists and web gurus, and rewards the best in new British websites in categories from shopping to education.Salim Mitha at Yahoo Search said new websites were taking advantage of the growth of broadband and were becoming more sophisticated and useful. "We've seen a big trend in socially aware sites - trying to be more ethical, more eco-friendly. And obviously more sites that allow people to connect who have certain passions."One such is doggysnaps.com, winner of the social website category. This aims to do for dogs - and their owners - what Facebook has done for net-savvy twentysomethings. The site, which is littered with excruciating canine puns, allows owners to set up a home page - or "kennel" - for their pooch, complete with pictures and descriptions of Fido's character and adventures. Users can then compare notes on all things doggy.If you want help learning a language, from Afrikaans to Zulu, then friendsabroad.co.uk - winner of the education category - is the social networking site for you. It puts you in touch with overseas penpals who can help you pick up the language through online chats."The Nag", which won the ethical category, emails users daily with tips and advice, such as encouragement to buy locally grown groceries.The winners:EthicalThe Nag:A site that helps people do one thing a month to 'make the world a better place'.TravelWorld Reviewer:Travel site that uses reviews of world tourist locations to inspire your next holiday.InnovativeMove Me:Online guide to moving house, from removal companies to mail redirection.EducationalFriends Abroad:Social networking for learning a new languageSocialDoggy Snaps:Social networking for your pooch.Weird and WonderfulFaces in Places:Snaps of faces in everyday objects.CharitableFree Rice:Test your vocabulary while donating food aid to developing countries.ShoppingNigel's Eco Store:Online retailer of environmentally friendly products and gifts.
The winners of Yahoo'sFinds of the Year 2007competition have just been announced - eight of the weirdest and most wonderful websites to come out of the UK in the past 12 months.There are the worthy ones - like the site that would have you"sign up to get nagged each month about one easy thing you can do to be greener, cleaner and, if you're not careful, a tiny bit smug"- and then there are the laugh-out-loud crazy ones - like the site thatreveals faces in pictures of buildings, wheelie bins, bollards and Angel Delight.What excellent and bizarre British sites has Yahoo overlooked? Post a comment and let the whole world know.Ahem ... "And the winners are ... "EthicalThe Nag:A site that helps people do one thing a month to 'make the world a better place'.TravelWorld Reviewer:Travel site that uses reviews of world tourist locations to inspire your next holiday.InnovativeMove Me:Online guide to moving house, from removal companies to mail redirection.EducationalFriends Abroad:Social networking for learning a new languageSocialDoggy Snaps:Social networking for your pooch.Weird and WonderfulFaces in Places:Snaps of faces in everyday objects.CharitableFree Rice:Test your vocabulary while donating food aid to developing countries.ShoppingNigel's Eco Store:Online retailer of environmentally friendly products and gifts.
OK, so it's not a toy exactly. ButWhirlpool's fridg-puterhas had a fair amount of attention. It includes a dock designed to hold a laptop, iPod or digital photo frame that fit into its 'centralpark' fridge-device system. Quite why you'd want to do that is a bit of a mystery: Whirlpool says it's because it saves worktop space and that their research has found that nearly a third of laptop of iPod owners use those devices in the kitchen.Whirlpool's centralpark connection systemWhirlpool demo'd the fridge with a Clio Vu tablet that, they said, could clear the fridge of sticky notes, photos and shopping lists. So your cute six-year-old will have to email her painting home from school so that it can show up on the fridge... nope, I can't see that catching on either.The Cozi software is a bit more interesting. I'm sure there must be some families out there trying to use this, but I find it hard to believe it isn't just adding to the workload of already exhausted parents.RobotsOn the robot front:WowWeeis following up the popularRobosapienrobot by launching Tribot, a three-wheeled robot that can tell jokes, stories (remember BSG episode 6? Etc etc...) and play games. WowWee also launched the new Rovio; GPS-enabled for navigation, wi-fi enabled and controllable online - including from your mobile. And for something a little more cute, the WowWee launched more in itsAliveseries, with a tiger, polar bear and panda.WowWee's Rovio. Photo: infosyncworld.comTheDVD-projecting R2D2is back for this year,Meccano is planningthree new robots - Spykee Cell, Vox and Miss to sit alongside the built-it yourself Spykee robot that is due to launch soon. Spykee is wifi-enabled so can be controlled by PC or laptop with built-in webcam (that could be an issue...), Bluetooth and voice-activated commands.Other stuffShiny Mediais doing a sterling job blogging the weird and wonderful:in-car karaoke,USB jewelleryand the (probably well-earned break in the)i-Fi home entertainmentchair. Love the three-second death stare you guys give the camera before you talk.Fortune has a goodgadget tasterthat includes a reminds-you-of-science-lessonsmulti-plug adaptor, a fire-safehard driveand the very beautiful Sonoro Cubo Elementsweb radio.Things with docksThere's all manner of things to dock your iPhone with at CES, but this is a big one: JVC's52" HD TVwith iPod dock. The dock folds out of the front of the set. I'm sure there must be a more sensible way of integrating your content with the rest of your home entertainment. And I'm sure it is probably at CES.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:CEStechnorati tags end
Tuesday's edition of chatterbox.
The Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas is underway andBobbie Johnsonreports for the show.  PlusAleks Krotoskiand the team discuss the possible death of the HD DVD format, the internet as a utility and find out what programs rub you up the wrong way...
As Ipredicted, Bill Gates's last-day-at-the-office video has surfaced onYouTube. This version was filmed from the screen, it's missing the start, and you may find it hard to hear some dialogue over the audience noise. But most of the fun survives....If you find a better version, let us know!Update: Thanks toSteve Claytonfor pointing out that the official version is on Microsoft'sChannel 10, but you need Silverlight. Exepress points toLong Zheng.Update: People feaured in the video include Jay-Z, Matthew McConnaughey (personal trainer), Bono, Steven Spielberg, George Clooney, Jon Stewart (The Daily Show), Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama, Al Gore, and Bob Costas (NBC).
Internet giant Yahoo must be ready to reclaim its position as the world's leading dotcom company, according to chief executive Jerry Yang.In a speech at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas yesterday, Yang explained his vision of returning the company to its prime, and outlined plans to help Yahoo recover from a series of setbacks that have left its reputation severely dented.The cornerstone of his approach, he said, would be taking the web and making it work properly on mobile phones."With Yahoo, we plan on being the most essential starting page for your life," Yang told the conference, the world's largest gathering of the technology industry. "We're committed to creating the best and richest mobile experience for all consumers."Android threatThe decision is seen as an attempt to tackle Google, which recently announced that it would help to build a free operating system for mobiles called Android. But where Google's system will be embedded into the DNA of phones that use it, Yang said that the Yahoo! strategy would only enable outside developers to create mobile applications that used its Go service.Yang also showed an in-development version of the company's Yahoo Mail service, which he sees as crucial in turning the company into a broader, more helpful communication and sharing service."It is also about complicated collaboration and getting stuff done with people," he said. "We have so many tools that enable us to solve some pretty complicated problems in your life."Yahoo was one of the pioneering dotcoms, starting out as a directory of websites and quickly evolving into a huge portal spanning entertainment, news and shopping. But in recent years rivals like Google and Microsoft have stolen a march on the Californian dotcom and gobbled up large portions of its advertising business. At the same time, Yahoo's long-time position as the world's largest web property has been undermined by the arrival of social networking sites such as MySpace.Surprise returnAfter the resignation of former chief executive Terry Semel last year, Yang took over the running of the company he helped to found in 1994. The departure of Semel – a former film industry boss who had been under pressure after a series of failures at the Silicon Valley company - was widely anticipated, but Yang's return to the helm took many pundits by surprise.The company's troubled times have also been affected by problems abroad, with particular attention being paid to the company's role in the imprisonment of two journalists in China. Shi Tao and Wang Xiaoning were each jailed for 10 years for political crimes – but only after their identities had been handed over by Yahoo to the authorities in Beijing.The affair led to a US Congressional hearing last year in which Yang and his colleagues were labelled "moral pygmies". They later made public apologies to the families of the pair.
Massive tellies• The inevitable willy waving contest was this year won by Panasonic, who unveiled a 150" plasma display - big enough to show a life-size elephant. Panasonic AVC Networks presidentToshihiro Sakamotounveiled new plasmas that are under 1" thick and said that technology can bring back "family time" because big-screen TVs are like "digital hearths". Perhaps more interestingly, he showed the 'Life Wall', a touch-screen wall that works a little like Microsoft Surface.Web-enabled TVs• Manufacturers have been keen to roll out their new web-enbled TVs at CES but, as theLA Timespoints out, the web part is extremely limited and a return to the walled garden idea.Samsung's new HDTV is being launched with a USA Today deal that makes news and photos available, but although video will be added soon it wasn't added at launch because it is too complex and expensive. Samsung wants to use a set-top box to deliver web video to the TV instead, and seemingly use web-connected TVs for better technical support.The Sling announcements• Sling Media's family of placeshifting TV tools has grown again. The original SlingBox 'slings' your TV content to your PC, wherever in the world you happen to be. As long as you are online, you get slung.SlingCatcher, being demo'd at CES, builds on that so TV content, as well as your own personal media, can be slung to TVs around your home. It will come to market later this year in the US for $249.It includes the SlingPlayer, which allows programmes to be 'slung' to other TVs on the same network, SlingProjector, which takes web-based content and shows it on your TV, and SlingSync, which allows files to be copied across to third-party storage.SlingPlayer Mobile, which allows that TV feed to be shown on your handheld, is being extended to BlackBerrys - no doubt a key audience for Sling. And if that wasn't enough, there's also a wireless USB adapter for the SlingCatcher, a cable modem and an overhaul to the Sling software with a 'Clip+Sling' feature so you can pause and take clips of programmes.More onslingcommunity.com, and co-founder Blake Krikorian says onVarietythat he sees Sling becoming more social by encouraging viral marketing of TV shows through user-created clips.A screen coming to you soon...• Philips' newEco TVdims the backlight during darker scenes, so saving power and making the back, erm, blacker. Everyone's a winner.• Sony announcedits first OLED(that's Organic Light Emitting Diode, folks) TV for the US, promising better, denser picture quality and though it's only an 11" screen, this is the technology that will eventually replace plasma and LCS screens.• And Mitsubishi, which owns around 75% of the LED laser market share, showed off 65"laser HDTV sets.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:Mitsubishi,Panasonic,Philips,CES,Samsung,Sling,Sonytechnorati tags end
In the world of screens, size matters - as do clarity, brightness and contrast. But mostly size. Little wonder then that this year's CES event is filled with display manufacturers out-jostling each other to show off the biggest, highest definition objects possible. Okay, this is Technology Blog stuff, but we all want to play games on the best displays possible, so here's a quick re-cap of what's been revealed...First and most relevantly, there's Alienware's curved monitor, picked up (not literally) by Tech Blog's Jemima Kissyesterday. This 2880 x 990 resolution DLP screen (complete with LED backlight) apparently provides a 90 degree field of view, allowing gamers to pick up action in their peripheral vision. Fussy show-goers noticed three vertical seams on the display showing where the four monitor screens meet, but Alienware execs claimed these joins would be invisible when the product hits the shelves in mid-'08. (more detailshere.)Meanwhile, Panasonicrevealedthree new plasma display models: a super efficient 42-inch display which halves energy consumption, a super thin 50-inch model, which is barely one inch thick and - best of all, of course - a super gigantic 150-inch screen with an 8.84 million pixel resolution. You'll find a photohere. That is, to slightly amend the grave-faced proclamation uttered by Julianne Moore when first confronted by Dirk Diggler's appendage in Boogie Nights, a giant telly.Samsung had lots of TV prototypes to show off including two (14.1" and 31") organic light-emitting diode displays, an ultra-slim 52" LCD TV and a quadruple full-HD LCD TV. QFHD screens offer resolutions of 3,840 pixels by 2,160 pixels, which, as the name 'quadruple full-HD' suggests, is four times the resolution of current HD sets. Arghh, my eyes!Also from the company'spress release:Samsung is introducing a 57" LCD monitor (model: 570DXN) that can recognize a user's motions even when the user is a short distance away from the monitor. The monitor takes advantage of a 3D motion sensing solution developed by interactive media company Reactrix Systems. Samsung plans to commercialize this monitor in 2008 and will target it for commercial (B2B) advertising applications.Sounds like this technology won't be available in the home for quite some time, but the obvious gaming potential means it's worth keeping an eye on - if only for your grandchildren...Finally, it looks like Sony is the first company to get OLED TVs onto retail shelves. Its 11-inch XEL-1 model is available in the US for $2,500. It's impressively skinny at just 3mm thick, but you might want to hold out for the larger 27-inch model which Sony is yet to mass-manufacture. (Morehere.) Alternatively, you might just want to drop out of the HD rat-race altogether frustrated in the knowledge that however sharp and detailed you think Burnout Paradise looks now, it will only ever be a pathetic foreshadowing of its endlessly unattainable future glory.
How cool is this? Computer scientistJohnny Leehas transformed the Wii, Wiimote and Wii sensor bar into a phenomenal 3D interactive system. Check out this video to see it in action.Find out more about Johnny and his Wiimote projects athis website. One caution for adventurous 3D-heads out there: when he says you can download the software, it's not like you'll get instant 3D Wii. It'll take Wii coding skills to integrate this into your console, and while it's a seriously cool effect, there are no games which support this at the current time.cheersbambino_toastare!
The loud and proud return of Led Zeppelin was the most lucrative event of the year for the touts and fans at the centre of a heated row over the resale of tickets online, according to figures published yesterday.One of the leading online ticket resellers, Seatwave, said the average price for tickets sold through the site for Led Zeppelin's comeback gig at London's O2 arena was &pound;7,425.Online resellers have effectively created a rolling market for high-profile gigs and sporting events.There is no legislation covering the resale of concert tickets and sporting events other than football matches but the culture, media and sport select committee will this week release a hotly anticipated report on the matter.Desperate Led Zeppelin fans were willing to risk thousands on tickets sold through sites such as Seatwave. The tickets had a face value of &pound;125.The figures reveal that boxer Ricky Hatton's much-hyped bout with Floyd Mayweather in Las Vegas was the second most popular event for users of the site, with tickets going for up to &pound;3,050.Dedicated resale sites such as Seatwave and Viagogo, as well as established online retailers such as eBay, have angered artists, managers and promoters who say they are profiting from online touting. But those behind the sites say the vast majority of their customers are legitimate fans.The live music market is now worth more than &pound;743m a year, and the online ticket resale market alone is worth an estimated &pound;200m a year.Ticket top ten1Led Zeppelin at the O2 - highest price&pound;7,525; average price &pound;7,4252Ricky Hatton v Floyd Mayweather -&pound;3,050; &pound;7073Wimbledon 2008 -&pound;2,175; &pound;7514Rugby World Cup -&pound;2,175; &pound;3675Barbara Streisand at the O2 -&pound;1,000; &pound;2876The Eagles at IndigO2 -&pound;990, &pound;9907Othello with Ewan McGregor at the Donmar Warehouse -&pound;899; &pound;6398Joe Calzaghe v Mikkel Kessler  -&pound;750; &pound;999Take That -&pound;610; &pound;12410Amir Khan v Scott Lawton -&pound;595; &pound;275&#183;Source: Seatwave
Major Andrew Olmsted was, besides those other things soldiers are, also a blogger - whose output included a blog at theDenver Rocky Mountain Newsand onhis own site.The past tense, though, is now necessary: Olmsted will blog no more. As the RMN notes:Major Andrew Olmsted, who posted a blog since May 2007, was killed in Iraq on Jan. 3, 2008. Olmsted, who had been based at Fort Carson in Colorado Springs, began blogging after his unit was sent to Iraq with the mission of helping train the Iraqi Army. A sniper killed Olmsted as he was trying to talk three suspected insurgents into surrendering. A sniper's bullet also cut down Capt. Thomas J. Casey. They were in Diyala province, northeast of Baghdad.He had planned, as a soldier will - as we all need to - for this eventuality. In his case, that meanta blog post to appear after his death, written of course before it:This is an entry I would have preferred not to have published, but there are limits to what we can control in life, and apparently I have passed one of those limits...As with many bloggers, I have a disgustingly large ego, and so I just couldn't bear the thought of not being able to have the last word if the need arose. Perhaps I take that further than most, I don't know. I hope so. It's frightening to think there are many people as neurotic as I am in the world. In any case, since I won't get another chance to say what I think, I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity. Such as it is.It is of course worth reading: perhaps it's part of the advantage of blogging that you can meet Major Olmsted in death as you could in life. The blog, and his site, is still there.Though for how long? Dave Winerhas wonderedabout how quickly his own digital leavings would rust and crumble, and what can be done about it. His verdict:With all possible humility, I'd like to tell you that a few days after I die my entire web presence will likely disappear. My servers require some attention from me from time to time. The first time that happens, poof, there goes 10-plus years of Scripting News, and all the docs for the OPML Editor and the OPML spec, the XML-RPC site, to name just a few. Anyway, within a couple of months it will all certainly disappear, unless someone pays my hosting and DSL bills. Maybe someone will, but isn't it ridiculous that that's what it depends on?We'vewritten about virtual memorials, but personally those seem too like being buried in a box made by someone else, not one that fits the shape we left in the world. For, while Woody Allen said, "I want to become immortal through not dying", if the only option is through your website..A final note from Major Olmsted, though the post itself is of course one to read; this is only one of the great nuggets therein:while you're free to think whatever you like about my life and death, if you think I wasted my life, I'll tell you you're wrong. We're all going to die of something. I died doing a job I loved. When your time comes, I hope you are as fortunate as I was.
I went to Sony's CES press conference yesterday (Sunday), which was on just before the Gates show. It was remarkable for the vast number of new products shown, albeit some of them -- such as the Rolly -- were already on sale in Japan.The new offerings included five "premier models" of Vaio notebook PCs, some noise-cancelling headphones with "artificial intelligence," a new Mylo, two satnav systems. three mobiles (W760 slider, W350 matchbook design, Z555 with gesture control), 16 new camcorders including five HDC models, TransferJet (which, amusingly, didn't work), an Alpha DSLR, a PD-ROM drive, and some Bravia TV sets with Digital Media Extenders (DMex).Sir Howard Stringer rounded up with "the next champion product" that will set a standard for others to follow: OLED TV.Sony first showed an OLED TV last year, but this year, said Stringer, it had an 11 inch model you could buy today in the SonyStyle store in Las Vegas. Not for sale was the 27 inch prototype on the Sony stand.The OLED screens look amazing: they have a 1,000,000:1 contrast ratio and are only about 3mm thick. When you see one, you will want one. Whether you will buy one is another matter. Sir Howard neglected to mention either the expected lifespan of OLED devices, or their cost.Once again, Engadget's Ryan Blockblogged the press conference live, with lots of pictures. It also has a very short video of thejaw-dropping 27 incher.
We don't have room inprintfor all your letters and blog pingbacks - but we do here. This week people were exercised about our map of blogging Britain, and whether you really can leave Facebook...BLOGGING BRITAINWhat, no Birmingham? I have read in detail in the same Guardian aboutbirminghamitsnotshit.co.uk. And apparently you didn't find mygypsyteacher.com blog, collected in the blook, 'Gypsy Teacher: A Yank in 'Brum' (lulu.com/gypsyteacher), and its follow up 'A Yank Searches for a House in 'Brum,' posted on the Lulu site. Just by putting Brum blogs into Google I came up withbrumblog.co.uk. Kathleen Dixon Donnelly, Birmingham"Norwich: We fully accept that no city knew it was competing for a place as the most blogged area in the UK. Even so, forcing your alarmingly clean-living students to blog atnorwich.edu/admissions/studentblogs.htmlis fiddling the figures, we reckon, so it didn't make the shortlist." In case nobody's pointed it out yet, Norwich University (norwich.edu) is in Vermont, USA. Simon Barne, Norwich [Noted; corrected - Tech.Ed]I have little concern for the position of Norwich in any blog rankings, however I think it might be interesting to note that the website mentioned is actually for Norwich University, Vermont, USA! I was alerted to this when I noticed the site has the '.edu' suffix rather than the UK academic institution '.ac.uk' suffix. Norwich University, VT (as opposed to the University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK) appears to be a combined traditional and military Corps of Cadets university which perhaps goes some way to explain the "alarmingly clean-living" nature of the students there! Andrew Dawson, University of East AngliaFirstly, it's poor to publish an article about blogging and then not turn on the comment feature of your website to allow readers to have a conversation about the article. Flies in the face of the concept of blogging. Not very new media. Secondly, while I pass on mild congratulations for including two cities in Scotland (Edinburgh and Glasgow) and Wales (Cardiff &amp; Swansea), there wasn't even a token nod towards Northern Ireland which has a growing blogging community (aggregated athttp://northernirishblogs.com) including myself - cunningly known as Alan in Belfast (http://alaninbelfast.blogspot.com) - but there are others too. Next time someone commissions an article about the UK, why not include all the nations and regions - not just the ones that can read the Guardian in full colour - the old Portadown press means that NI readers get greyscale pictures instead of full colour and lose the TV reviews from G2. Alan Meban, Belfast&gt;&gt; No mention ofLiverpool Blogsnor the blogs featured on theArt In Liverpool website. There are many things in an unready state for 2008, but the city's burgeoning blogging scene isn't one of them.condensedthoughts.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; fundamentally the greatest thing about blogging - you can say what you want, when you want ... and even choose not to if you don't feel like it.thehermesproject.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; Some map - omitting not only Edinburgh's leading weblog [mine], (instead substituting [a] heap of commercial crap), but treating everyone on my sidebar with similar disdain. No JonnyB. Nor mike. Nor Diamond Geezer. Listen... if you want to understand the British blogosphere - ask someone who's actually in it. Eh. Don't just Google for URLs containing town names, which is clearly what you've done.nakedblog.comFACEBOOK CALIFORNIAFYI, you *can* leave Facebook, but it isn't easy. I got Facebook to delete my account after a bit of a struggle, and currently the UK Information Commissioner's Office are investigating my complaint against Facebook. The full story is documented athttp://blogs.sun.com/alanbur/Alan Burlison, GlossopThe situation where you can't leave [Facebook] is not new. In fact I started filing complaints to Facebook about it over a year ago on the 14th November 2006. I got a lot of responses from the team about it. I was complaining at first specifically about the fact a reason is required to leave and then secondly that you have to just "deactivate" and can't delete the account. I eventually filed a complaint with the privacy watchdog Trust-e who issued me with this statement: "The TRUSTe Compliance Team has reviewed the details of your complaint and we have determined that it is a valid, privacy complaint. We have contacted Facebook.com on your behalf and have outlined the steps necessary for proper resolution." This was on the 30th December 2006. On the 31st of January 2007 I got a response from Facebook. It was from their Chief Privacy Officer, Chris Kelly: "Thank you for your suggestion that we offer assurances and build technical tools to completely erase any vestige of an individual's account from Facebook. The social nature of sites such as ours and the technical nature of Internet technologies makes it extraordinarily difficult for any site to assure that we can find every piece of data that an individual has ever created on the site. Therefore, we are unable to guarantee users who choose to terminate their accounts that we can erase all information they have provided, and in many cases, such guarantees would be inappropriate for other reasons. For instance, the content of a Facebook message that one user has sent to another comes under the recipient's control. Deactivation of the sender's Facebook account does not and should not erase the message in question. Our deactivation feature addresses most concerns by immediately making profile and other personal information provided by a user unavailable to Facebook users who otherwise would have been able to access it because of overlapping networks or confirmed friend requests. Over time — how long varies depending on the type of data and the traffic on the service — much of the data pertaining to an individual's deactivated account is overwritten on Facebook servers. We appreciate your concern about giving a reason for deactivation, but that can be expressed with a simple word or phrase. Simply indicating that "privacy" is a user's worry and reason for leaving the service poses no significant burden on the deactivation process. Sincerely, Chris Kelly" I wasn't satisfied but I couldn't take it any further. I hope you writing your article has taken it further... maybe something will change soon. Sam Davyson, Cambridge&gt;&gt; It's all a bit dodgy if you ask me, even though Facebook claims you can opt out on a case-by-case basis…it's not really clear how this works. Also, the law being that you are allowed to observe public behaviour, does Facebook count as being public?ctriandafyllou.wordpress.com&gt;&gt; If you don't want anyone to know every detail about you, then don't put your detail out on a public forum. It's that simple. Targeted ads are big money, if you provide your personal info for free, then the ad revenue is coming in with minimal expense. The company takes advantage, just like with club cards, just like with credit cards, just like with any company who "needs" your personal information. If you're promiscuous with your info, don't expect to NOT be harassed.lostinsweden.com&gt;&gt; I have punted my Facebook account, much like [my friend] did a while back. I was thinking about doing it anyway. But this was following an interesting Guardian article that made me actually get my arse in gear.mellonello.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; A lovely little piece on the underlying and potential creepiness of the network for sheep-throwers. Please feel free to send to all idiot-friends who download endless applications, making themselves more open - and culpable - to identity-fraud. And if you're one of those - idiot!thinkwritedo.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; What the hell? Is this true? If so, there goes my smugness at my previous paranoia about not letting Facebook stay logged in etc. I see I should have been scrubbing out all traces of Facebook cookies off my computer each bloody time. Honestly, this is the creepiest 'feature' thus far. I deleted most of my profile a few days ago, along with disabling basically everything that I hadn't already (there wasn't much, I'm diligent, but the buggers keep adding more opt-out stuff so you've got to check back regularly). I'd been meaning to do that for months as I only log on maybe once a fortnight. But screw it, if even not actually being on the site isn't enough to end this madness, I'm clearing the cookies, deleting my Firefox bookmark and only ever logging in from Netscape or Exploder, both browsers I only use for testing my code. Laziness means I'll do it even less often than currently, but oh well.andustar.com/weblog/QUIZZICALYou ask the question of what encryption ZIP uses in the context of HMG's loss of those 25m child benefit records. This question might give the impression that the data on those disks was actually safely encrypted. The default option in ZIP is to _not_ use the strong AES encryption. The default is to use the old ZIP 2.0 encryption standard which is badly compromised. Do we know that the civil servant chose AES, or did they just go with the default, broken password protection? John Graham-Cumming, Toulouse, FranceSurely you could have made your Christmas quiz a bit more interactive - I gave up on the print version this morning as I hate all that toing and froing and seeing the answers to questions you haven't answered yet. But your online version is exactly the same... Surely It's not that complicated to make it a bit more web 2.0-ish. Especially when your the technology part of the newspaper. Nigel Kellaway, Enfield&gt;&gt; absurdly difficult.dailymole.com/wordpressGOOGLE'S KNOL&gt;&gt; [One] factor that could come into play would be if Google tweaked its algorithm in a way which might reverse Wikipedia's dominance of the search results. They could do this simply by increasing the importance of links to an actual page rather than to a domainaltogetherdigital.comLEOPARD CONTINUESRegarding the claim from one reader that a bad installation of Leopard must be down to bad luck or a failure "to do basic housekeeping and troubleshooting"... I did an erase and install on my three-month old iMac and still had endless problems- all due to Leopard- not third party software or anything like that. And as for troubleshooting- it should work out of the box! That's why I have a Mac not a PC. I have since reinstalled Tiger and the computer is admittedly missing a few cosmetic tweaks but at least it works properly now. Paul Moore, Mount Dora, FloridaDON'T THINK PINKI found the picture of a woman with a pink keyboard and a shopping button to be deeply offensive with your article "How secure are your online passwords?". Women are not technology and password idiots. Well not anymore than men. As a female Computer Engineer, I am sick of seeing outdated stereotypes like this staring me in the face when I read technical articles. Hopefully your team will select less stereotypical pictures in the future with your technical articles. Miriam Breslauer, embedded systems designer, Farmington, MissouriPODCAST FINDERGreat new podcast, but I can't see how to subscribe to it. Yesterday's Technology Guardian says it's available via iTunes, but I can't find it. Nor does it seem to be listed atguardian.co.uk/podcasts. Could it be whoever was supposed to sort this went off to the Christmas party instead? Nick Rich, Harpenden [It is there, honest, on iTunes and the Guardian - Tech.Ed]SCREAM TESTRather disappointed with the article, crudely reducing concerns about creeping government intrusion as a concern of the 'chattering classes', whoever they are. The problems and issues inherent in the development of the database state will cut across all boundaries of wealth and class. The 'scream test' equally crude - is he saying that because some existing uses of technology are useful that ANY increase in its use is automatically justified? The title of the article led me to be optimistic that a cogent discussion of the urgent need for debate and transparency on this issue , but that vital point rather buried in what reads as a rather rambling and incoherent piece. Ross Bennett, Monk Fryston&gt;&gt; the impetus behind eGovernment is a naïve hostility to the good work done by front-line staff. The papers written by the likes of the Cabinet Office and the New Local Government Network explicitly seek to replace the professional judgement of these experienced staff with computer systems.no2id.net/news/newsblogGOOGLE THATYou ask is Google a Grinch or a good guy. Some months ago I mislaid the set up instructions for my answerphone. I Googled the name and model number and came up with the manufacturer's website. I pressed the tab for "setup instructions". Unfortunately it read "Instructions not yet available. Try later". I again Googled last week. Only 37 results. Most read "Read reviews &amp; compare prices at ciao.co.uk". No sign of the manufacturer's website. Maybe the manufacturer's gone bust. But in a few short months Google seems to have become more like eBay or Amazon than a reference library. John Lodge, LancasterDAB REDUXThe problem is not AAC+ but having hard-wired DAB receivers. The answer is in the box; have that reprogrammable and the world´s your oyster (or soya plantation, etc, for vegans). Alejandro Moreno (no post town given)TOO LITTLE BRITAINDear Sony, Can you please tell me why I've been duped into wasting £19.99 of my money in HMV on a video game that is surely the most woefully incompetent conception in gaming history? I'm speaking of 'Little Britain' for the PSP. The game should carry a warning that it has 8 miserly stages which can be completed within an hour, rendering the game good for nothing. I am disgusted at the sheer lack of value offered by the game manufacturers, and even more appalled at Sony Entertainment for producing such a bad consumer experience. I should like very much to have my £19.99 refunded. It is reasonable to expect that a video game rated age 12+ should supply at least a moderate challenge to players, or at least be engaging in some way. This game is neither, it's utterly boring, short, and generally naff. Can you please do the right thing and refund my money so that I may purchase a better game and recoup the hard-earned cash I've wasted on this sham which your company endorsed. Peter Alexandrou, LondonTWO QUESTIONEDWhat is web 2.0, hardware or software? It is neither, nothing, just PR speak - less than zero Keith Scott, LincolnPEER RESPECTI find it reprehensible that 4oD's use of P2P is buried in the terms and conditions, and not specified 'up front' in the explanation of how it all works. I stumbled across this fact on the forums below while seeing if there was a way to view these programs on my iPod (of course there isn't, that would be too useful). And then, lo and behold, I got a warning email from my ISP saying that I was nearing my allowance limit. Also, unlike most P2P software there is no way of controlling it other than switching KSERVICE.EXE off via task manager or uninstalling 4oD.http://www.bbc.co.uk/At least the BBC explain that they use P2P on an actual FAQ web page.http://iplayersupport.external.bbc.co.uk/This is all annoying enough, but you would expect that Ofcom would provide an obvious way to complain about this. I've looked thru all their website options and none apply. 'Spam emails' is the closest I can see and that says that Ofcom does not regulate the Internet! Who is responsible for this then? I've filled in a complaint form on the 4oD site but I think it is wrong that they should be peddling this in the first place. This is not going to do anything to help stop illegal downloading is it? Mark Ford, RuislipFLOOD MAPPING [FREE OUR DATA]Although the Environment Agency argue that they want to provide the best data available there is a well documented error on the flood map for Freshford Mill Somerset. Recently a letter was written to the PM asking him to look into 1. why even though both the Environment agency and the Ordnance survey were informed about the error in 2006 it has still not been corrected and 2. as to the accuracy of these maps nationwide. Geoff Edwards (no post town given)OVER PLUSAfter your article on Saga's new discussion forum, the membership trebled overnight, causing the software and servers to collapse under the strain. As well as major technical problems, they also encountered community problems, the influx of new members mixing with the old members did not blend well. A break away group of members has formed a new community, but with a difference. We believe our community to be the first of it's kind in the UK for over 50s. The website is interactive, run as an online magazine, the members supply all the content. As well as the 'News Desk' there is a discussion forum, chat room, personal photo albums, blogs, e-cards, and classifieds. Offering the over 50s almost everything they need in one place. We are hoping that with a little friendly publicity our community will grow from strength to strength. It is non profit making, and is supported purely by the members who can either make a donation or pay a £10 yearly subscription. These funds are used to cover hosting and admin costs, and at the end of each annual anniversary of the website the excess cash collected will be donated to a Charity of the members choice. The url ishttp://www.50plusforum.co.ukHazel Case, 50 Plus Forum
I'm a bit late with this, but it's funny so what the heck. Swiss multimedia artistGuillaume Reymondhas finished the latest section of his Game Over project in which he uses groups of people to 'act out' classic videogames. He's already done Pole Position, Space Invaders and Pong and in November, he gathered some friends in an auditorium at the Palais de Rumine and got them to be Tetris, using stop motion animation. The video, which you canenjoy on YouTube, took over four hours to 'film' using 880 still photographs.This, of course, is only the latest attempt at reproducing iconic videogames. There have been various urban versions of Pac-Man, including an'augmented reality' projectby the National University of Singapore's Mixed Reality Lab and the regularly stagedPac-Manhattan. Oh andhereis a live version of Donkey Kong created for Jackass spin-off Viva La Bam - it's funny because someone gets hurt.What philosophical or artistic message is behind these real-world recreations of videogames? Is it about our need to humanise technology - or perhaps a comment on how players project themselves into the game universe? In some ways I think they're a very literal exploration ofHenri Bergson's theory on laughterin which the French philosopher argues that the basis of comedy is watching people acting like machines. This is perhaps why it's always classic videogames that get reproduced - there's something about the simple, iconic graphics that juxtaposes more humorously with human participants.So, given the chance (and the inclination), what classic videogame would you re-enact and how?
I've been browsing CES coverage all day and this is definitely the coolest thing I've seen so far: Alienware's curved screen. Any gamers looking for 'total immersion' will want to get their hands on one of these and they can, in the second half of this year.A lonely corner of CES. But check out those curves. Photo: CNetThe resolution is 2880 x 990, but that curve is supposed to mimic peripheral visions, according toEngadget. Check out theirwobblecamfor the demo.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:Alienware,CEStechnorati tags end
Pinnacle PCTVThis is a gizmo that lets you stream high-definition television images from your computer to your TV, enabling you to store thousands of films digitally. With more broadcasters looking to deliver TV programmes on demand over the net, and more downloadable shows via retailers such as the iTunes store, the company hopes it has a winner.Spot satellite deviceThe US firm Spot's satellite messenger (above) links into GPS systems and relays your coordinates. Aimed at people who like trekking in the wilds, it could also appeal to parents wishing to keep track of their children.Action Cam: a waterproof, hands-free video recorder. Photo: Associated PressOregon Action CamThis gizmo brings together extreme sports and digital photography through a video camera that can be attached to a helmet. Film your daredevil exploits with this &pound;60 camera, which shoots at 30 frames a second and is waterproof - up to a point.Whirlpool Centralpark refrigeratorAn idea from the white goods manufacturer Whirlpool for a novel way to sell the kitchen of the future - a fridge that feeds not only you but also your gadgets. The unit comes with built-in docking stations to charge iPods, digital photo frames and touchscreen tablet computers.WowWee RovioThe robotic toys RoboSapiens are popular with children; now WowWee introduces, for adults, the three-wheeled Rovio, which can roam the home acting as sentry. It will beam pictures of what it sees to you, wherever you are in the world, using  built-in internet connections and satellite positioning. It can follow a pre-set path or wander freely using an onboard webcam to navigate.
While the iPhone was certainly not the best spec'd mobile of 2007, it did have that touch of Apple magic that made it the most lusted-after device of the year. And it's the phone to beat for the rest of the world's mobile handset manufacturers.One year after Apple chief executive Steve Jobs announced the iPhone at MacWorld,Wiredpicks out a few rivals that have had a year to size up the best way of competing - Samsung's F700 and the LG Voyager - and there are plenty more new models being unveiled at CES. Here's a few:NokiaNokia has previewed an 8GB version of the much-anticipated N95 for North America; this has ditched the radio included in the European version and has a slightly larger screen (2.8" compared to 2.6" - but who's counting?). Engadget points out that the memory card slot was sacrificed for the 8GB hard drive. RRP in the US is $749, so that's a fair chunk under the £499 RRP in the UK. But then we expect that.There's also ared N95, if you are so inclined.Nokia's N95 8GB for North America. Photo: EngadgetSony EricssonAh - shiny things! Sony Ericsson wasdemonstratingthe newZ555(pronounced "sheesh", possibly) in silver and black, which has an OLED, 1.3 megapixel camera; the ultra-thinW350walkman phone (just 0.3" thick but with 512MB storage, 1.3 megapixel camera and FM radio); and theW760- HSDPA web connection, GPS, 3 megapixel camera and video capability.Sony Ericsson's Z555. Photo: EngadgetMotorolaOn the Motorola stand, there's theZ10banana slider - designed, as Engadget says, "to satisfy our insatiable banana phone needs".TheROKR E8has no 3G data capability but has tried to do something fancy with a 270-degree navigation wheel and was launched officially as Motorola'skiller musicphone.LGThisLG handsetmight raise a chuckle; it's a handset that wants to inspire people to watch TV on their mobiles. It's DVB-H based but only compatible with the ATSC broadcast standard in the US. That means it can pick up existing TV signals without modification (oops - was that a tunnel?) but also that this handset won't work in the UK.As Ian Morris onCNetpoints out, it's not inconceivable that someone will try launching a mobile TV service in the UK using that old analogue spectrum. But hopefully with some slightly more elegant handsets.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:CEStechnorati tags end
It was billed as a fond farewell to the technology industry from Bill Gates: a chance for the billionaire businessman to pay tribute to the hi-tech world one last time before he steps down from his duties at Microsoft later this year.But the normally unassuming software tycoon also appeared to have been infected by the glamour of Las Vegas, opening the world's largest technology conference yesterday by parading a sequence of high-profile friends and international celebrities.Among the names wheeled out during his keynote address to the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) were movie legends Steven Spielberg and George Clooney, music stars Jay-Z and Bono – and even White House hopefuls Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton.All contributed to a comic video speculating on what Gates might do later this year when he steps down from his day-to-day responsibilities with the software giant he co-founded 33 years ago. Jokes about a potential political or musical career were contrasted with the reality, that he will be spending more time on his philanthropic activities at the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation.His address to a crowd of several thousand industry insiders on Sunday evening was a farewell to the computing business in which he has, arguably, been the most important figure of the past 20 years."The transition has been going very well and I'll have a few projects," he said, adding that "this will be the first time since I was 17 that I won't have my full-time Microsoft job."For now, however, Gates is still very much a Microsoft man and he took the opportunity to announce a series of deals between the software giant and other technology companies. Samsung and Hewlett-Packard have both agreed to produce television sets with Microsoft programs built in, allowing people to link their living-room screens directly to their PCs.Meanwhile Gates and Microsoft vice president Robbie Bach announced that users of the company's Xbox 360 games console would be able to download more movies over the internet thanks to a deal with movie studio MGM.Dressed in a sober grey jumper, Gates took to the stage to rapturous applause from a crowd eager to show their appreciation of the man who has helped cement technology at the heart of modern life.Gates outlined a vision of where society might be in several years' time, predicting that the next "digital decade" would be centred around different hi-tech devices all connecting together. He suggested that new ways of using computers, including visual recognition and touchscreens, could become the norm.To illustrate his vision, Gates once again demonstrated the Surface computer, a touchscreen coffee table gizmo that can interact with devices placed on it such as mobile phones, computers and even household objects. He said that such technologies could become ubiquitous within just a few years."The first digital decade was built on the keyboard and the mouse, but in the last two years we've seen touch appear on Windows PCs, touch on the iPhone," he said. "The reaction has been very dramatic."It is 15 years since Gates first made a speech at the CES, and his keynote speech on the opening night has become a fixture in the technology calendar.Held annually in Las Vegas, CES has cemented its position as the world's leading technology and gadget showcase, with more than 140,000 attendees expected to turn out this week as companies from every corner of the hi-tech industry debut their new products and outline their plans for the coming years.In the past Gates's keynote speeches at the CES have proved the launching point for many startling predictions on the future of technology, though his record on successfully predicting what might happen is mixed at best.While his suggestion that 75% of American homes would have home computers by 2010 has already come to pass, predictions that the problem of unwanted spam email would be eradicated by today seem as far away from realisation as ever.
Social networking websites have become the hub for the UK's cultural underground, with a new generation turning to the likes of MySpace to make money, collaborate on creative projects and share ideas with their friends, according to a study.An extensive social networking research project commissioned by MySpace has identified a host of emerging trends and tribes that the website says have previously gone undetected by the mainstream.Researchers from the Future Laboratory set up a "virtual hide" in MySpace over six weeks, interviewing 1,000 users who explained how they define themselves as part of groups including "mindies", "cheemos"', "slash/slash kids" and "rudettes".Mindies are teetotal under-18s who follow the teen bands Pull in Emergency, Lion Club and Kid 4077; cheemos combine chav and goth looks (the word is a cross between chav and emo); and slash/slash kids are multi-skilled MySpacers who like to create their own music and fashion. Rudettes follow Lily Allen's rude-girl style.The study, MySpace 08: People. Content. Culture., also identified "double dressers" - friends who co-ordinate matching or complementary outfits.Hot on the heels of the nu-rave fad last year, MySpace's musicians are creating their own music genres, including "toystep" - dance music made with plastic kids' toys; and "power pop" - a mix of rock, hip-hop and rave.Researchers picked up hot tips for 2008 bands, including the toystep band Partyshank, rockabilly band Peggy Sue and the Pirates, and the Glaswegian indie/folk/pop band Make Me a Model.Future Laboratory identified six types of MySpace user, classifying 38% as "essentialists", who primarily use social networking sites to stay in touch with friends.Just under a third, 28%, are "transumers" – those who follow new trends rather than make them.Around 10% are "connectors", who specialise in identifying and linking to cool content; and 5% are "collaborators", who create events and projects online by teaming up with other users.One in 20 MySpace users get their thrills from "scene breaking" – hunting down new bands and talent online and sharing that through the site; and 4% classify themselves as "netrepreneurs", who use social networking sites to make money.Future Laboratories also profiled a number of individuals who use MySpace as a platform to promote and develop their businesses.The underground, hand-photocopied magazine Fever Zine coordinates contributors and subscribers through its MySpace page.Fever Zine has 5,000 friends and a cult following; editor Alex Zamora said MySpace was essential to help find the new talent that he wants to feature in the lo-fi publication.Researchers also focused on the fashion stylist Richard Shoyemi, who has secured work with Italian and Japanese Vogue through his MySpace exposure."They are essentially buying into me as a person as well as a talent, which all comes from my celebrity status on MySpace."I feel in order to expand as a brand it's important to reach out to all; everyone who expressed interest in me is important in my eyes," Shoyemi said.Slash/slash kid Paul Griffiths started designing and selling T-shirts through the site and now employs three friends. He has sold 10,000 garments so far.With a talent for self-promotion, 20-year-old Griffiths says he is completely self-taught and that his MySpace business has allowed him to ditch a career in telesales."We get up to 1,000 friend requests a day but only ever confirm a small number of the coolest MySpacers," he said.Social networking sites have evolved beyond their original purpose of communication, said the report, to become "highly articulate, heavily visual, extremely collaborative and creative hubs, which have become for many a vibrant and engaging way to keep up to date with, and comment upon, changes in the cultural scene".MySpace's "culturpreneurial" culture is part of the maturing of the internet economy, the research concludes, enabling users to collaborate to create, sellers and buyers."It is a mass experiment in collaborative creativity and cross-cultural pleasure and enjoyment, where the end goal is a currency of a different, and some would argue far more vibrant, sort," said the report."Social networking is entirely about playing, experimenting and redefining our understanding of creativity."&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Monday's edition of chatterbox.
