Re-releasing an existing product with a new twist is by no means a new idea. If demand is flagging, adding a small amount of extra value to an old item is an easy way to invigorate sales. Manufacturers have been doing it for years.Video games are no exception. Shops around the country are replete with repackaged titles, perhaps with a 'free' soundtrack or metal tin thrown in for good measure. No sooner hadBatman: Arkham Asylum triumphed at the video game Baftas, for example, than a Game of the Year Edition hit shelves. After all, how else can you get consumers to pay £39.99 for a game that's almost a year old?Unfortunately for a narrative-driven game like Arkham Asylum, it's pretty tough for developers to cohesively add-in new content. An extra level, after defeating the Joker (apologies for the massive spoiler there) wouldn't make much sense. A few extra challenge maps are thrown in but the appeal of those is fairly limited, especially considering they were already available as downloadable content.Left with little else to work with, Square Enix took the unorthodox step of releasing a 3D version of the game.Now, I'll come clean and admit that I'm not a fan of 3D in the first place. It hurts my eyes and quite often, judging by others' excitement, I'm not too sure my eyes are experiencing exactly the same thing.Still, I was excited at the prospect of seeing what Batman would look like using cutting edge, Avatar-like 3D graphics. The press release speaks of state-of-the-art TriOviz technology, 'leveraging the depth-of-field ... allowing console players to dive deeper into the gothic world of Arkham Asylum'.You can imagine my disappointment, then, to find red and green cardboard glasses, the likes of which once came free with issues of the Beano and early 90s breakfast cereal, inside the box.The 3D experience does sort of work. In some cutscenes for example, at times Batman's arm seems slightly closer to you than the rest of his body. But wearing red and green lenses drains all colour integrity out of the game, which is hardly a good trade-off. Colour problems aside, it's often hard to tell that anything onscreen is in 3D at all, particularly during combat.Thankfully, the game gives you the option of turning 3D on and off as you choose - and I'd be surprised if anyone makes it through more than the opening ten minutes without putting this to full use.The appeal of using 3D as a marketing ploy is obvious - it's the big, exciting consumer fad of the moment. But to use it to flog copies of a game for which it obviously hasn't been designed seems like a remarkably poor idea, especially once 'proper' 3D gamescome along later this year.What makes it especially galling is that it's not that hard to think of features for Arkham Asylum which really would have added something to the game. 'Making of' documentaries, commentaries, new Batsuit upgrades - perhaps with these included, it could have justified it's hefty RRP.What, then do we expect from repackaged releases? Are they intended to woo gamers who had missed out on the title when it was launched? Or are they targeted at hardcore fans who are willing to shell out forty quid to play a game they loved through, a second time, with a few tweaks and add-ons?Games companies can't be blamed for trying to cash in when they have decent new content to offer with an old release. Fallout 3 Game of the Year Edition, for example, is hard to criticise given how many hours it adds to the game.Often though, when the new release offers little value, it seems pretty exploitative to trick ignorant consumers into thinking they're buying a new game, or into buying one that offers considerable advantages over its previous incarnation, when all it has is a shiny new box and half an hour's worth of added extras. Oh, and 3D glasses.
Britain's legion of smartphone users may have to watch their iPhone or BlackBerry become potentially useless as the UK's mobile phone networks face a potential "capacity crunch".This week's expected call of a general election may send plans to liberalise the UK airwaves back to the drawing board and deprive an incoming government of the early windfall it could have bagged by selling off the old analogue television signal next year.It could also leave the newly merged Orange and T-Mobile in limbo while management wait to see whether they can use their existing mobile phone spectrum for the next generation of super-fast mobile phone technologies – known as "long term evolution" or LTE.Any delay to the liberalisation of the airwaves or sale of a new spectrum would leave mobile phone operators with a serious headache. Last year, according to Ofcom, mobile data traffic increased 200% and some networks – most notably O2 in London – are creaking under the strain. They need more capacity so  users of smartphones that can access the web or download applications do not see their connections slow down or fail.After almost five years of wrangling, the mobile phone industry, Ofcom and the government's own spectrum adviser Kip Meeklast year thrashed out a dealthat would allow the mobile phone companies to use their existing spectrum for mobile broadband services. It involved caps on the amount of wireless spectrum they could own but did allow them to take part in an auction of a further spectrum – including the old analogue TV signal – planned for next year. While that auction was not expected to raise anything likethe £22.5bn that the original 3G spectrum sale earned back in 2000, it would still have raised hundreds of millions, possibly even a few billion pounds.The plan wascomplicated by the merger of Orange and T-Mobile, but in order to avoid a lengthy competition inquirythe two companies agreed to sell a quarter of the spectrumthey were granted in the 1990s for voice and text services.The deal,which required Lord Mandelson's personal intervention, also included extending indefinitely the 20-year licences that the mobile phone companies picked up in the dotcom boom for so-called 3G mobile data services. In fact it emerged last week that one UK operator – 3 –has already factored the extension of its 3G licence into its financial figures.The whole spectrum package has beenworking its way through parliament as a statutory instrumentthat instructs Ofcom to implement Kip Meek's plan. It has progressed alongside the controversial passage ofthe Digital Economy Billwhich includes provisions for punishing persistent unlawful internet file-sharers by severing their broadband connections.If Gordon Brown calls a general election tomorrow, as widely anticipated, thedigital economy billis likely to be pushed into law in the so-called wash-up of legislation that will occur this week. In order for it to become law, however, the statutory instrument needs to be debated and voted upon in the House of Commons and the House of Lords.The party whips are understood to have given the instrument time in the House of Commons but no such provision has been made in the Lords. "It looks very, very precarious," said one mobile phone industry insider last night. "If it does not get through there is every likelihood that a new government will review the whole matter again, delaying the process for a year, perhaps more."Even if it does go through, BT is understood to be considering legal action against plans to extend the networks' 3G licences,having already sent a strongly worded letter to Lord Mandelsonabout what it sees as an unjustifiable subsidy for the mobile phone industry.Despite the potential capacity crunch, O2 and Vodafone are actually likely to welcome any delay in the process of implementing the statutory instrument. They believe the merged Orange and T-Mobile will still have too much spectrum. Orange and T-Mobile, however, will be dismayed at any delay to the liberalisation of spectrum. There has been speculation recently that the two companies want to use the capacity they were given when they started operating in the 1990s for LTE services. They would be the first UK network to run LTE services.
WhenBusiness Week reportsthat an iPhone app has been developed to celebrate the internet cult Epic Fail, you know – to use another meme that has penetrated popular culture – it has reached tipping point.In truth, this probably means the putdown phrase has now – ahem – jumped the shark, but it is unlikely to put off the thousands of visitors toEpicfail.com. To the uninitiated, it is probably best described as You've Been Framed In  Extremis. Visitors are invited  to send in video clips and photographs of things that are judged to be an "epic fail". Thus, given the mores of our age, the website is a celebration of spectacular, painful, cruel, embarrassing failure."Epic fails" featured in recent days include a seemingly genuine photograph entitled"Epic parking fail"in which a hearse is seen being towed away outside a church just as the pallbearers and coffin are leaving the  funeral. Others include ever-popular footage of skateboarders and BMXers colliding with metal railings.The phrase "epic fail" has been slowly entering common parlance over the past few years, with the "fail" suffix now being used conversationally by the likes of Jonathan Ross. There was even an episode of House, the US medical drama starring Hugh Laurie, called Epic Fail. But its origin is thought to date back to the late 1990s when a Japanese computer game called Blazing Star became a cult hit thanks in part to its mangled English: "You fail it! Your skill is not enough, see you next time, bye-bye!"Gamers have used the expression "You fail!" to mock opponents ever since and over time it has morphed into "Epic fail", especially when used as the subject header for forwarded emails containing  videos and pictures of notable fails. Epicfail.com was set up early last year by a student living in New Jersey and it now acts as a clearing house for thousands of "epic fails". The sign that the phrase has truly entered the mainstream could come during the coming weeks should one of the parties apply it to a rival's policy. Well, they have got to reach out to the youth vote somehow.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I would say it's probably my new phone, the Palm Pre. I use it for everything – email, browsing the web, applications, listening to music. I just use it non-stop. It's the one thing I use more than anything else except for my PC.When was the last time you used it,  and what for?I'm using it right now!What additional features would you add if you could?I'm pretty much sure it does everything I need at the moment… maybe better support for global travel? Because I think it's limited in the number of countries that it can work in.Do you think it will be obsolete in  10 years' time?Yeah, I think most technology will be obsolete in 10 years and will be replaced by something better.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Probably just the need to keep everything charged all the time.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned  and hated?I can't think of anything – there are some things I don't use so much, but nothing I've hated. I get on pretty well with technology.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?I've always been an early adopter, and I buy things when they first come out. It's always best to be on top of things, so I believe in getting the newest things as soon as you can.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Don't know if I'm a nerd – I'm more of a geek. But I certainly embrace technology and use it all the time.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?That would probably be the television that I have, which is a 73in Mitsubishi rear projection set – it cost me $9,000 when I bought it. But now it's very old and obsolete – I bought it about 10 years ago.Mac or PC, and why?PC – I've never owned an Apple product. I like the fact that PCs are open architecture and not locked down like Apple products. I feel that Macs are also unjustifiably overpriced.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I do not buy CDs any more, I usually stream internet radio. For movies, I hardly every buy any DVDS. I have a DVR, so just record things off HBO, Showtime and so on.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Generally speaking I think they are a good idea, as long as one day they don't rebel and try to kill you.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I'm pretty content with what I have, but the one thing that I don't have is something like the iPad – but PC-based. I think that wold be cool.Oren Peli is the writer and director of Paranormal Activity, which is out now on Blu-ray and DVD
Last October the number of photographs hosted on Flickr.com passed the four billion mark. By the time you've finished reading this column, several thousand more will have been uploaded to the site, each automatically resized and allocated its own unique URL for copying and pasting into emails, text messages and blog posts. Flickr has become the world's shoebox, a place where anyone can store their pictures, or put on an exhibition. This is good news for most of us, but it is driving professional photographers to share the slough of despond with the increasing number of print journalists who likewise feel that their occupational world is being torn apart by technology.Last week,theNew York Timescarried an elegiac pieceabout the plight of professional snappers under the headline "For Photographers, the Image of a Shrinking Path". Human interest was provided by the contrast between a young graduate of a photojournalism course, who sees his career options vaporising, and a 40-year-old mother of six who uploads her digital pictures to Flickr from which some of them are licensed by the stock-photography agency Getty Images for a few bucks a time.Because Flickr is so prominent, it'll get most of the blame for the destruction of yet another venerable profession. But in fact the rot had set in long before the site launched in February 2004. The main culprit was the idiot-proof digital camera, which enabled almost anyone to take a decent photograph, or at any rate one that was accurately exposed, in focus and sharp — and to delete it and try again if it hadn't turned out right.Digital cameras had a powerful "levelling-up" impact on amateur photography. Once upon a time, only professionals could consistently deliver images that were technically excellent. And even then, analogue technology often let them down. I've just been looking througha book of Henri Cartier-Bresson's collected portraits, for example. Out of 94 images, only 66 approach contemporary standards of sharpness and focus. That doesn't mean that most of them aren't memorable pictures; but it does illustrate how digital technology has levelled the playing field.Professional photography comes in various genres, each of which is being affected in different ways by changing technology. At the top end lies photojournalism and fashion photography. These are being undermined by the decline in print media, the rise of video and the advertising recession, and may or may not recover depending on what happens to the print publishing business.Lower down the artistic scale we find the bread-and-butter of professional photography: routine capture of low-profile news events, product photography, pre-shot stock photography and other kinds of humdrum stuff. All of these businesses are being undermined by Flickr and its ilk. "Let's say that 20 years ago," writesone industry blogger, "a newspaper in New York was running a story about Hollywood and the editor wanted a picture of the Hollywood sign. Rather than fly one of their photographers out there, put him up in a hotel, and pay for his meals they would go to a company that specialised in stock photography. They would pay the company a fee for the licence to use their photo in the story and everyone is happy".And now? "The newspaper can log on to a site like Flickr, find an image they like, and run it in their paper for free with just giving the owner credit (unless the licence is non-commercial). So now you have a happy editor who saved more money and a happy photographer getting exposure for his work. But you also have an unhappy stock photography business owner who has just been cut out of the deal."What's happening to professional photography is just one instance of "the mass amateurisation of publishing", to use a phrase coined by the cultural critic Clay Shirky, who has no time for elegies for vanishing worlds. He seesour current angst as just the latest instalment of a reaction that's been going on since Gutenbergupended the apple-cart. "Most of the arguments made against the printing press were correct, even prescient," he says. "Readily available translations of scripture did destroy the Church as a pan-European institution. Most of the material produced by the new class of publishers was flyweight. Scribes did lose their social function. And so on."Something similar is happening now, Shirky claims. The internet, like printing before it, is producing "a staggering volume of new material, some good but most flyweight. It too is upending the role of traditional gatekeepers and destroying the older economics of scarcity. And it too is leading to a cottage industry of hand-wringing: 'Why can't we just get a little bit of internet, but keep most things the way they were?'"Why indeed? Trouble is: nostalgia, like photography, ain't what it used to be.
Not long ago, "spin doctors" like Charlie Whelan would do much of their business in the traditional manner – over a few pints. Last week, however, Channel 4's debateAsk the Chancellorsshowed how the spin industry, Whelan included, has branched out into the twittersphere.Midway through Monday night's televised debate between Alistair Darling, George Osborne and Vince Cable, the programme was the fourth-biggest "trending" issue on Twitter anywhere in the world. At its height, there were about 200 tweets a minute. Over the whole hour (8-9pm) there were 15,000, and 5,000 in the hour that followed. Next morning it was still the number two trending issue in the UK.Much of the action was from party spin doctors and politicians giving highly partial views during the actual event. Henry Macrory, the Tories' head of press, tweeted at 8.56: "Osborne sums it up: Lab inherited one of the strongest economies in the world and now we have one of the weakest."Douglas Alexander, Labour's  election co-ordinator, tapped in: "Osborne tries 2 hide commitment 2 tax cut for 3000 richest estates – is that what 'we're all in this together' means?" Vince Cable's fellow Lib Dem Susan Kramer rattled out: "Vince brilliant but amazed that George is most dull!" The aim of all was to spin the media as the event went out live.Matthew McGregor, head of the London office of Blue State Digital, which provided the online technology for the Obama campaign, said a phenomenon was being born. "They wanted to shape the views of journalists as it was still going on... It is expectation management live."With three live leader debates due during the election campaign, battles on Twitter are likely to become even bigger and more intense.  But Dorothy Byrne, head of news and current affairs at C4, said the best thing about the Twitter reaction on Monday had been the number of non-politically aligned viewers who had chipped in. "The parties should not try to use this to say how wonderful they are. If they do, people will take against them. They should let democracy thrive."
Enjoy eating goulash? Fed up with needing three pieces of cutlery? It could be that I have a solution for you – and not just for you but for picnickers who like a bit of bread with their soup, too. Or indeed for anyone who has dreamed of seeing the spoon and the knife incorporated into one, easy to use, albeit potentially dangerous instrument. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the Knoon.The Knoon came to me in a dream – I had a vision of a soup spoon with a knife stuck to its top, blade pointing upwards. Given the potential for lacerating your mouth on the Knoon's sharp edge, maybe my dream should have stayed just that. But thanks to a technological leap that is revolutionising manufacturing and, some hope, may even change the nature of our consumer society, I now have a Knoon sitting right in front of me. I had the idea, I drew it up and then I printed my cutlery out.3D is this year's buzzword in Hollywood. FromAvatartoClash of the Titans, it's a new take on an old fad that's coming to save the movie industry. But with less glitz and a degree less fanfare, 3D printing is changing our vision of the world too, and ultimately its effects might prove a degree more special.Thinglabis a company that specialises in 3D printing. Based in a nondescript office building in east London, its team works mainly with commercial clients to print models that would previously have been assembled by hand. Architects design their buildings in 3D software packages and pass them to Thinglab to print scale models. When mobile phone companies come up with a new handset, they print prototypes first in order to test size, shape and feel. Jewellers not only make prototypes, they use them as a basis for moulds. Sculptors can scan in their original works, adjust the dimensions and rattle off a series of duplicates (signatures can be added later).All this work is done in the Thinglab basement, a kind of temple to 3D where motion capture suits hang from the wall and a series of next generation TV screens (no need for 3D glasses) sit in the corner. In the middle of the room lurk two hulking 3D printers. Their facades give them the faces of miserable robots."We had David Hockney in here recently and he was gobsmacked," says Robin Thomas, one of Thinglab's directors, reeling a list of intrigued celebrities who have made a pilgrimage to his basement. "Boy George came in and we took a scan of his face." Above the printers sit a collection of the models they've produced: everything from a car's suspension system to a rendering of John Cleese's head. "If a creative person wakes up in the morning with an idea," says Thomas, "they could have a model by the end of the day. People who would have spent days, weeks months on these type of models can now do it with a printer. If they can think of it, we can make it."Paul MacInnes' Knoon.All of which means that they can make a Knoon. To get it to the printing stage I first designed my implement using a piece of software freely available from (of course) Google. The program is calledSketchUp, and it allows you to draw any image you want in three dimensions. It also allows you, thankfully in my case, to browse through a warehouse of pre-existing designs and adapt them for your own uses. I took two designs, one for a spoon one for a knife, and then spent hours trying to get them to join together. I must point out that this was my problem and not the software's; I had a distinct difficulty grasping the concept of rotation in three planes.When the file was complete, and expunged of the many errors I had introduced to it, it was ready to print. The basic concept of 3D printing has not changed enormously since the first patent was filed by one Wyn Kelly Swainson in 1971. His idea involved inserting a tray into a vat of liquid plastic and directing a laser into it. The laser would fuse a solid line of plastic onto the tray and, in dropping the tray down, another layer could be added on top.While the techniques of modern 3D printing would be familiar to Swainson, the capabilities of the technology would not. Advances in mechanics, alongside huge leaps in software programming, mean that printers can render objects to incredible degrees of sophistication and refinement. Professional printers such as those at Thinglab, for example, are capable of printing 46 layers per millimetre.The picture would be even less familiar to Swainson once you factor in the further collaborative potential afforded by the internet. Google's 3D warehouse, with SketchUp designs that range from humble cutlery to a complete collection of the world's great football stadiums are available to view and, mostly, to download. People can share their designs with people on the other side of the world; those people in turn can improve them and, with a little adjustment, turn them into something real. (Instead of the Knoon, I had thought about taking a version of theMaracanastadium in Rio de Janeiro to Thinglab and convincing them it was all my own work. I decided no one would believe me.)The internet is helping to foster communities of three dimensional designers, but it is also helping to propagate the machines themselves. Prices that used to be prohibitive, with printers costing upwards of £25,000, are dropping. Furthermore, the floor is being lowered faster all the time, thanks in no small part to open source designs that are available online and that freely spread knowledge and expertise. The products that come out of this process might be of lower specification, but they are also much, much cheaper. One such product, theCupCake CNC by Makerbot industries, retails at roughly £600 for a "deluxe kit" of complete parts and assembly instructions.This is where the possibilities for 3D printing start to get interesting.A recent article by Chris Anderson, editor-in-chief ofWiredmagazine made the case, in rather excitable terms, for the transformational effect it might have on business. "Every garage is a potential micro-factory and every citizen a micro-entrepreneur in the age of democratised industry," he wrote, describing how a thousand ideas could bloom into companies thanks to the lowered cost of prototyping and the small-scale production lines that 3D printing can facilitate. Team up with newly flexible Chinese manufacturers, according to Anderson, and "one-person enterprises can get things made in a factory the way only big companies could before".But what if increased business opportunities were only the beginning? What if 3D printing actually changed lives not just for entrepreneurs but for consumers, for citizens? Adrian Bowyer is a senior lecturer at the department of mechanical engineering at the University of Bath. Since 2005 he has been working on theReprap, a project with a clear aim: to make a 3D printer that can reproduce itself."The whole idea behind Reprap is either that it prints itself out or that anyone can get hold of it by downloading the design from the web," says Bowyer. "What's more, when you've got a machine you can print a set of parts for a friend and no one has to pay any royalties to do that."At the moment, the Reprap can print half of its own parts – the rest, says Bowyer, "we have deliberately chosen so that they are completely standard bits and pieces that anyone can get anywhere in the world". The next goal is to get to the point of full self-replication. Bowyer's aspirations, however, go a lot further than that."I would like it ultimately to be cheap enough for everybody to own," he says, "and that's including the world's poorest people. Cheap enough for everyone to own and to be versatile enough that we could print a significant fraction of everything we need using the machine itself. Rather than using factories and shops and having trucks going up and down the motorway and raw materials having to be shifted around and so on, not only will the machine copy itself it will work with a raw material that will copy itself."How can it do that?" he continues. "The answer is that it will work with a plastic made from plants and if you've tens of square metres of land you have your own supply of raw material. Not only that, every time you use it, it's taking carbon out of the atmosphere."I put it to Bowyer that he's making his small, slightly rickety printer sound like a panacea for the world's ills and he laughs. His enthusiasm and high hopes may belie the current limitations of his technology, but they are also typical of those who are immersing themselves in this new manufacturing. There is a can-do spirit abroad.It's something you find when browsing the 3D warehouse or sites such asThingiverse, where "makers" post their home-designed and self-printed parts. Among the thousands of objects you'll find a Gothic Cathedral play set ("Ever wanted a Gothic Cathedral of your very own? Intimidated by the centuries long construction schedule? Then we have a Thing for you!") but also a peristaltic pump.Offline, meanwhile, the same dynamism is apparent in the explosion of Hacker spaces. These are as they sound – cheap workshop spaces where amateur electronics enthusiasts gather to swap home-made gadgets and plan collaborative projects – and they arespringing up across the world. In London, in a brightly lit office space, I found people enthusiastically soldering parts, tweaking others and explaining still more to each other. The guest speaker that evening was Mitch Altman, the godfather of Hacker spaces and inventor of a controller that can switch off any TV. His mantra is that "anyone can make a living from doing the thing they love". The London Hacker space is, naturally, building its own Reprap.Cory Doctorow is a writer and technophile who runs the highly successful blogBoing Boing. His recent novel,Makers, tells the story of two creative types and their trusty 3D printer who inadvertently create an entirely new economic system. Of course, the old economic system proves not to be too happy about this. Doctorow is sceptical about making grand claims for the potential of 3D printing, but equally so about any fears the technology might prompt."When people talk about 3D printers there are two ways they envision disruption," he says. "That they will enable widespread copyright infringement, or that they will be used either to print viruses or AK47s. When I hear people say that, it seems to me to have such a poverty of imagination that it'll be rather short of the mark. In general when we predict how things will go, from hobbyist to artisanal to manufactured, we tend to underestimate the potential for weirdness."Doctorow does believe, however, that 3D printing has already brought about real, tangible change. "We are now in a world where you can choose to make something physical, at a very low cost," he says. "3D printers come out of rapid prototyping. That's no coincidence. The reason you prototype is to find out cheaply whether or not it's not a mistake. There's a famous quote sometimes attributed toTom Watson of IBMthat to double your success rate first triple your failure rate. That's what 3D printing is allowing people to do."I guess he's talking about me there. I got my Knoon back from the Thinglab and it's clear I might have some work to do before I take it to market. The joint of the handle was too weak, the blade a bit skew-whiff and the bowl couldn't carry any liquid. All that before we even get to the whole shoving a knife in your mouth thing.Still, it'll be something to tell the grandchildren about. The grandchildren I'll have downloaded and printed from the internet, that is.
The proliferation of applications has been a boon for creative hobbyists. Software that would previously have carried a hefty price tag and required expensive tech to run is now available to download for next to nothing. The advantages professional creatives enjoyed are slowly being whittled away by an army of small developers.Sampletoy(iPhone, mrkbrz.com, £1.19) for example is a combination of sampler and synthesiser – a great tool for professional and amateur musicians alike. It allows the user to capture any sound and then manipulate it on the go, making excellent use of the phone's multitouch screen to alter the pitch and add effects. If that all sounds a bit complex, it can also be used to make friends sound like Smurfs. Simple pleasures.Similarly,PicSay Pro(Android, Shinycore, picsaypro.com, $1.99) offers advanced photo manipulation tools for a tiny price, and there's also a free Lite version, lacking some of the more advanced features. PicSay allows you to do almost anything. There's the technical, such as playing with tint, exposure and colour temperature, but also adding speech bubbles (I can haz lolcats on the move!), selectively decolourising an image to leave a Sin City-esque flash of colour (see left), or cutting and pasting bits of one image on to another.
The latest game from talented Japanese studio Platinum Games is nothing if not ambitious – a galactic adventure that crams an entire universe into the humble DS, offering myriad worlds to explore with a fleet of spaceships. Each craft is pieced together from hundreds of parts and manned by characters handpicked from a selection of more than 150 space travellers.Naturally, the limitations of the hardware cause a few problems, but a few design choices rankle, too. The most glaring is the lack of a captain's log: some sprawling missions require a pen and paper (!) to ensure objectives aren't forgotten.Elsewhere, there's much to enjoy. The rock-paper-scissors mechanics of ship combat make encounters hugely tense affairs; trying to anticipate an enemy's next move as these hulking behemoths glide silently towards each other is very exciting in a slightly nerdy way. Between this epic and the newPokémon, DS owners are looking at small-screen satisfaction for the foreseeable future.
In form at least,Paradiseis relatively easy to comprehend. It's a collection of minigames starring the voluptuous cast of the long-standing fighting seriesDead or Alive. Presented as a surreal tropical vacation as envisioned by the overactive mind of a teenage boy, it lets players dabble with casino games, beach sports and various acts of simulated socialising.WhatDead or Alive Paradiseactually represents within gaming's canon, however, is a little harder to understand. Is it a witty parody of the portrayal of women in games or the worst form of sexist drivel that keeps the medium stuck in its boy-bedroom ghetto?Perhaps it is both (or perhaps it just depends on whether you're a teenager or not). The gameplay is certainly solid, but the focus on encouraging players to take virtual photos of objectified semi-nudes is questionable. If nothing else,Paradiseis asking the questions, whether consciously or not, which is more than many generic titles.
The Japanese role-playing game finds itself in a state of flux, struggling to remain relevant to the key western demographic but, at the same time, often erring on the side of tradition to avoid alienating its domestic audience. A stripped-backFinal Fantasy XIIIproved an unsatisfying halfway house for some, which makes it doubly refreshing to see inRoFan RPG unafraid to play fast and loose with the template.The setting is a huge tower with its own in-built class system: the rich occupy the upper strata, with the working classes struggling near the base. But anyone concerned about sledgehammer social commentary can rest easy; developer tri-Ace has bigger fish to fry.An inventive and fearsomely complex battle system isResonance of Fate's greatest success, blending acrobatic gunplay and turn-based strategy. Machine guns deal temporary "scratch" damage; pistols make it permanent. A whirling circular gauge requires players to time button-presses well to maximise attack power. Players can risk expending one of their limited supply of gems to move and fire simultaneously, but losing them all tips the scales in the enemy's favour, ensuring a knife-edge tension to every encounter. And, although a lacklustre tutorial throws newcomers in at the deep end, a little experimentation soon smooths out the steep difficulty curve.Exploration is equally unorthodox, with new areas unlocked by connecting hexagonal pieces dropped by fallen enemies. Though combat arenas are drab, a dystopian steampunk world is otherwise skilfully realised, while the three likable leads share an engaging chemistry through a quirky, quip-happy script. A game whose ideas deserve a far wider audience than it will likely reach.
I'm HereI'm Here is a new short film from Where The Wild Things Are director Spike Jonze that's been funded by the makers of a strong alcoholic beverage. Only a limited number of people can watch it online each day, so make sure you set aside 20 minutes before logging in. One excellent element to the whole affair is that, after you've entered at the ticket booth and secured your spot, you can invite as many of your Facebook friends as you wish to then join you in the experience, whose Facebook photos you'll shuffle past as you take your virtual seat. The movie itself – a bittersweet robot love story – is wonderful, as is the soundtrack by Aska Matsumiya.The Velvet OnionMost fan sites are so specific. They zero in on the object of their affections and leave it at that. Then, when that person/thing/show/band becomes idle, so are they until inevitably they – and we – lose interest and disappear. The Velvet Onion has the right idea: not a blog just about The Mighty Boosh, it provides "quick access to the Booshniverse", the ever-expanding world of comedians, telly, music and stuff that are connected to the show and its stars Noel Fielding and Julian Barratt. To this end it covers the movements of comedian Rich Fulcher (who is currently engaged with his groupie alter ego Eleanor The Tour Whore), electro-folk prog rockers Circulus, whose members include Holly-Jane Shears and Antony Elvin, both seen in Boosh series three, and the forthcoming series of the IT Crowd as well as the latest news on Noel's hair and Julian's new comedy pilot Zimbani.Blog roll: KentEastcliff RichardJanet Street Porter sinks her teeth into Thanet Earth plus all the latest from Ramsgate, the Millionaire's playground.Margate ArchitectureThe horror of Dreamland, the history of Cliff Terrace, and the wonder of Britain's leading futurist florist.AnkeA day away from Tunbridge Wells is a day wasted; a blog that does a great job of persuading you this may be true.Ley Lines Of WhitstableThe secret power of Whitstable revealed.Swale Is A MessRubbish, potholes, graffiti, fly-tipping and faded street signs from the town that time – and the local council - forgot.Shell GrottoEngland's leading tourist attraction that's made from shells – incorporating a secondhand junk shop.What we learned on the web this weekWhere to watch LogoramaShoes that make everyone the same heightAll the good band names are goneCheese and pepper together at lastCSKA Sofia are Europe's most dysfunctional football clubWhat makes a fartHow millennial we areWhat it's like to be invisible at the Oscars15 good reasons for eating at Jones' RestaurantSpongeBob Squarepants is based on the seven deadly sins
Two days before the iPad launch: the Munich Apple Store doesn't noticePhoto bymichael_reuteron Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team. Want to send a link our way?Tag it with "guardiantech" on delicious.comand we'll take a look.The Kids Are All Right &gt;&gt; Daring FireballJohn Gruber thinks that criticisms about programming the iPad are overblown: "If you could go back and show my 10-year-old self an iPad — millions of colors, video, photographs, gorgeous typography, a touchscreen interface, networking (wirelessly!) — and offered to let me write web apps for it in exchange for my agreeing never to touch an Apple II again, I'm pretty sure I know what the answer would be."Does Twitter Have Over 100 Million Users? &gt;&gt; WebProNewsA bit of statistical wrangling suggests that there 20% of new user registrations get suspended (they're spam) but that it's passed 100m users. So is that 80m real humans?New website brings crowd sourcing to fashion &gt;&gt; ReutersThe forthcoming Fashion Stake site "will allow customers to directly fund fashion designers by browsing on-line collections and buying a stake in a collection in return for credits to buy clothes".The Collapse of Complex Business Models &gt;&gt; Clay ShirkyA preceptive post about the TV industry faced with a much simpler world (YouTube), but obviously of wider relevance....Why I won't buy an iPad (and think you shouldn't, either) &gt;&gt; Cory Doctorow at Boing BoingThe iPad is just another round of the CD-ROM for publishing or AOL's walled garden, and "Apple's model customer" is a "stupid stereotype of a technophobic, timid, scatterbrained mother" and anyone else who is too lame-brained to participate in the real creative universe, roughly.Microsoft founders lead tributes to 'father of the PC' &gt;&gt; BBC NewsEdward Roberts launched the Altair 8800, for which Gates and Allen created their first Basic, which led to the founding of Microsoft in 1975.Haven't registered to vote? We'll help &gt;&gt; iVote2010Very neat, clever system to help you register to vote. You realise there's not much time?Special Report: iPad striptease: It's what's inside that counts &gt;&gt; ReutersWhen a new product arrives, iFixit and other companies do "teardowns" to find out who makes what and cost the parts. "The data is used for competitive intelligence, in patent disputes, or by those simply looking to stay current on industry benchmarks," says Reuters.IE sees small usage drop in first month of browser ballot &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaMore people might have downloaded Opera, but its market share only increased by 0.03 percentage points in Europe, and Firefox actually lost market share.A Treasure Trove of Steve Jobs Stories &gt;&gt; GawkerReaders contribute stories about their little real-life brushes with the Great Man90 percent of Windows 7 flaws fixed by removing admin rights &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaAlso, 100 percent of Microsoft Office flaws and 94% of Internet Explorer flaws (and 100% of IE8 flaws) no longer work, acording to a report from by BeyondTrust.If Web Browsers Were Modes Of Transportation &gt;&gt; Laura ScottInternet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, Chrome - and not leaving out Opera. This is rude to all of them. Oh, and true."I need your honest feedback on our new website design" &gt;&gt; Dilbert.comBut does it use Flash or HTML5?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I suppose it's a Mac, which I'm sitting in front of now. I don't know if it's improved my life, but it's made bits of it easier. You can find things out much more quickly now, so it's eased life.When was the last time you used it, and what for?This morning, to look at some train times for a friend of mine.What additional features would you add if you could?None, really – as long as it does what I tell it to do, that's all I want.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Oh God yes, it's probably obsolete now. It's a year old now, so that's an antique by computer standards.What always frustrates you about technology in general?That it's too difficult for me to understand. I'm not a complete dumbo, but unlike today's generation, I was not raised on these things.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I had a love-hate relationship with a chess computer that my wife bought me a few years back – I could never beat it. I don't play it at all now.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?To learn exactly what it is that you're talking about.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?A combination of the two, really – I would have smashed looms back in the day.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I suppose this one – the Mac. Otherwise, it would be my car.Mac or PC, and why?Mac – because my son chose it for me. It's as simple as that.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?Yes, I do by CDs and DVDs. The last one I bought was Eddie Izzard Stripped on DVD.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Oh dear, no no no – I'd be terrified.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A transporter – something that could get me from A to B without doing the journey, as in Star Trek.•Series 1 of The Good Life is out now on DVD
Apple's iPad officially hits shops in the US tomorrow, but the critical verdict is in – and it is drooling.Stephen Frysays in Time magazinethat he was "not prepared for how instant the relationship I formed with the device would be", and David Pogue in the New York Times says it is "designed and built by a bunch of perfectionists".The demand for the device, which with its 24.5cm (9.7in) touchscreen looks like an enlarged iPhone, is so intense that people in Britain – where it will not be available until later this month – are trying to order it by using forwarding companies with offices in the US. Apple, though, is doing its best to block the so-called "grey importers". It has previously insisted that it retains the right to decide which companies can import its products.The iPad was shown off by Apple's chief executive and chairman, Steve Jobs, in a blaze of publicity in January. He called it "our most advanced technology in a magical and revolutionary device at an unbelievable price".In the flesh it has impressed reviewers, who think it will prove hugely popular with people who do not want the perplexing interface of most computers. Typing can be done on a virtual keyboard or a physical keyboard attached via Bluetooth wireless networking.Analysts reckon that Apple could sell more than 3m of the devices this year, and that it will be ideally suited for games, online TV, ebooks and online newspapers, all of which can be turned into money-makers through apps – standalone programs downloaded from Apple's App Store. The Guardian, which has already had success with its paid-for iPhone app, is introducing an app for the iPad that links to photographs that have appeared in the newspaper.The iPad is priced in the US at $499 (about £325) for the cheapest model, which can only connect to the internet via Wi-Fi, and up to $829 for one with extra storage and Wi-Fi and 3G phone connectivity.As many as 250,000 are believed to have been ordered for delivery this weekend. That means that fan sites and YouTube will see an orgy of home-made videos, dissections, raves and rants as people get their hands on them and tell the world about their experiences.But buyers outside the US face a frustrating wait. Apple has not announced pricing or specific dates for the introduction of the iPad in the UK, leading to speculation that it is facing production problems or that it is waiting to see how the exchange rate moves before setting the price. Sources within Apple UK say that they have still not laid hands on the device.That has led some eager fans to use services such as Reading-based Bundlebox, which allows Britons to register for a US postal address – meaning, in theory, that they can order an iPad and get it shipped from there to the UK.Mark Gross, its chief operating officer, said that demand through the company for the iPad was "phenomenal," but said he could not give out numbers about how many have been ordered. "Apple spots whether you're ordering from a computer located outside the US, looks at where the delivery is going to, and if it thinks you're going to export it then it lets you go through the whole process and then cancels it a day or so later," he said.Apple has previously sued companies which imported iPods bought outside the UK to this country, insisting that they needed its authorisation to sell them. But Bundlebox's position is less clear, as the company can claim to be acting as a middleman for people who are in effect buying the product through Apple.Officially, Apple said today that it has "no position" on the legality of grey importers, but Gross was so concerned about the company tracking down the shipping address for its US deliveries that he repeatedly refused to give any indication of how many have been ordered, fearful that Apple would cancel them all.Founded by Andre Schmidt, a former Google employee, Bundlebox says that a recent Customs ruling also means that such buyers do not have to pay import duty. Presently most of the site's business is in importing US-bought clothes and makeup, said Gross.Some computer companies hope that they will be able to ride the demand for Apple's iPad to profit from their own tablet designs. Google is believed to be working on one for release later this year, using its own Chrome OS operating system.If Apple does succeed in blocking companies trying to bring the iPad in early, British customers will be left with only the reviews – and, after this weekend, thousands of videos on YouTube. And their yearning will not be eased by Fry's parting comment on the product: "For me, my iPad is like a gun lobbyist's rifle: the only way you will take it from me is to prise it from my cold, dead hands."
Robin Milner, who has died aged 76, was one of the world's foremost theorists of computer science. Over a period of 40 years, he made important contributions to the theoretical foundations of computing. In his latter years, as professor emeritus at Cambridge University, he played a&nbsp;leading role in establishing the Grand Challenges global research agenda for computer science.Milner and Tony Hoare, another noted theoretician, aimed to establish a set of long-term research goals of comparable vision to theHuman Genome Project. Milner was personally involved in establishing the Grand Challenge for a "science for global ubiquitous computing". Within 20 years, he argued, computers could be regarded as one single global universal computer. There needed to be an underlying theory for how we could program and trust such a system. That challenge remains elusive, but vitally important. As Milner once remarked, our lack of scientific understanding about how today's computing infrastructure works "has all the charm of inventing the science of navigation while already on board ship".Milner was born in Yealmpton, near Plymouth, the younger child of John, an army officer, and his wife, Muriel. The family moved often, and Robin was educated as a boarder at a preparatory school. He was a brilliant student and in 1946 won a scholarship to Eton college, where he excelled in mathematics. In&nbsp;1952 he won a scholarship to King's College, Cambridge. His entry was postponed for two years for his national service as a second lieutenant in the Royal Engineers.At Cambridge he studied mathematics and philosophy, although by his own account he spent most of his time playing chamber music as an oboist. In&nbsp;1956, he attended the summer school in computer programming organised by&nbsp;the Cambridge University mathematical laboratory, but did not pursue it.After graduating in 1957, he moved to London. His career initially lacked direction and he took a variety of jobs, including a period as a mathematics teacher. Deciding he needed to get a&nbsp;steady job, in 1960 he joined Ferranti's computer division to become a programmer. In 1963 he married Lucy Moor, a violin teacher whom he had met at a music camp. They had three children during the next five years. From 1963 until 1968, Milner was a&nbsp;lecturer in maths and computing at City University, London. There, besides teaching engineers, he developed an interest in artificial intelligence (AI).In 1968 he took up a senior research assistantship at University College, Swansea, working with David Cooper, a prominent AI researcher. This was followed by a research post with the artificial intelligence project at Stanford University, California. There he developed LCF, an influential system for computer-assisted reasoning. This was important work, although Milner felt that it "wasn't getting to the heart of computation theory", where he was determined his future work would lie.In 1973 Milner returned to the UK as a lecturer in computer science at Edinburgh University. There, his first and most tangible creation was ML, a simple, rigorously defined programming language. Unreliable software was a major issue. ML went some way to enabling programmers to verify, with mathematical rigour, that their programs were correct. ML soon took on a life of its own. It was used for undergraduate teaching, research and engineering applications and it spawned several dialects. Many years later, it was redefined as Standard ML, for which Milner won the 1987 technical award of&nbsp;the British Computer Society.During the 1970s, computing evolved from sequential machines (which obeyed one program at a time) to concurrent systems, enabling several programs to be executed simultaneously. In 1980 Milner published a mathematical basis for understanding them, called the Calculus for Communicating Systems (CCS).CCS consolidated Milner's growing international reputation. He rose rapidly through the academic ranks, becoming a professor of computer science at Edinburgh University in 1984. In 1986 he secured funding to establish the Laboratory for Foundations of Computer Science. There, he led the development of the pi-calculus, which extended his earlier work to model the emerging world of networked, mobile computing systems. Milner was a fine administrator and an inspiring teacher. His remarkable scholarly achievements and gentle demeanour earned him great affection and respect.Milner was elected a fellow of the Royal Society in 1988. He received the ACM Turing award in 1991, computer science's highest academic honour, and he was conferred with honorary doctorates almost on an annual basis. In&nbsp;1995 he became professor of computer science at Cambridge University, serving as head of department from 1996 to 1999.Lucy died earlier this year. Their son Gabriel died in 1992. Another son, Barney, and a daughter, Chloe, survive him, along with Milner's sister, June.•Arthur John Robin Gorell Milner, computer scientist and mathematician, born 13 January 1934; died 20 March 2010
Google has not renewed its licence to be an "internet content provider" in China, signalling the end of its ambition to provide search and other internet services inside the country's "Great Firewall" which filters out content deemed sensitive by its government.The annual licence, which is issued by the Chinese government, expired at the end of March. Holding an ICP licence is a prerequisite for providing web and internet searches originating inside the Chinese mainland – although it can still function from Hong Kong, where it moved its main search facility to google.com.hk at the end of last month.However certain services such as Google Maps are understood still to be hosted on google.cn, though they are being transferred as the company exits the mainland for its internet services.Google can however still conduct research and development on its Android phone and other software inside China, as well as selling advertising to be carried on the Google search engine and associated pages.The company announced in January that it would cease to self-censor searches to Chinese users following what it viewed as targeted attacks against Chinese dissidents using its Google Mail service, and hacker-led incursions into its internal networks.Googlestarted operations in China in January 2006, censoring its search results to omit pages that the government has declared "sensitive" – usually relating to dissidents.Google may seek to raise the problems it has experienced with censorship as a trade issue with the US State Department, which has been sympathetic to its complaints.Facebook, the video service YouTube and the microblogging service Twitter are also blocked by the Chinese government firewall, though users with technical knowledge can buy online services called virtual private network (VPN) connections, which allow their systems to tunnel through the blockade.
The Government's police inspectorate backed down today after facing a furious online backlash over the choice of name for its new website.Officials at HM Inspectorate of Constabulary (HMIC) said they will find a new name for mypolice.org.uk, which was launched amid some fanfare last month.Entrepreneurs behind the fledgling internet venturemypolice.org, an independent police feedback service, accused the watchdog of trampling over their work.The Guardianhighlighted angerover what was seen as a landgrab by HMIC early in March.At the time, Lauren Currie, director of MyPolice (the non-HMIC one), said: "We are in an extremely narrow market, and it is incredibly likely that confusion would arise if they continue to use our name, Mypolice. It is extremely unprofessional to view all our channels and move forward with the name mypolice. If HMIC launch as Mypolice, they will run the risk of confusing the public to think they are an independent company, which they are not."Now HMIC has backtracked, and says that its service – an innovative statistics database – will be renamed."We have been working with the mypolice.org founders since 8 March 2010 to address theirconcerns and to provide the best possible solution,"it said in a statement on its website."They asked that we stop marketing 'mypolice.org.uk' as a redirect page, since the public might confuse this with their service. We agreed, and now only refer to www.hmic.gov.uk/mypolice. We also agreed not to renew our ownership of any of the 'mypolice' domains. This will give them the opportunity to buy and use them when they get their service up and running."To ensure the public gets the benefits of both services with no chance of confusion, we will change the name of the 'my police' pages on our website. We are currently consulting on the best option, and will announce the results in the next week."
The music industry is presumably looking forward quite eagerly to the passage of thedigital economy bill, which introduces new measures to punish people who frequently download songs, films and TV programmes illegally and is expected to pass into law next week.The industry will be aiming to capitalise on the resulting publicity about illegal downloading and the new sanctions in order to start getting more money out of the consumer again.A recent study backed by the TUC and European unionsfound that a quarter of a million British jobs in the music, film, TV, software and other creative industries and around £218bn in revenue could be lost over the next five years if online piracy continues at its current rate.Here's my prediction of one way Apple's iTunes, at least, could react.The success of iTunes largely depended on the fact that the application made it easier and more convenient for the consumer to download songs legally than illegally. The service also appeals to people – they do exist; I know some – who don't want to break the law but do want to own songs in a digital format or get hold of obscure music they can't find in the shops.So iTunes could offer them an option called something like "go legit". If you clicked on this, it would scan your iTunes library to discover which songs you had neither got from iTunes nor ripped from CDs (I am told it already keeps a record of both). It would then produce a list of songs you could replace with legitimate, paid-for iTunes versions – presumably at some kind of massive bulk discount. You could untick the ones you didn't want to replace, for whatever reason (perhaps you legally downloaded some from elsewhere; perhaps they are mp3s of Scottish folk songs you recorded yourself in your bedroom).This wouldn't be framed as Apple snooping or spying on their customers, which would presumably provoke a huge backlash; instead it would attempt to appeal to those users who feel guilty about the fact that they have been breaking the law. The option wouldn't appear unbidden in a threatening manner; the users would have to find it themselves in the drop-down menus.This would be pretty sneaky because there is no prospect of the police actually checking up on what has been legally or illegally downloaded on to people's computers (not even the record companies are arguing for that). It would prey on people's worries and guilt over illegal downloading, when actually their past downloading is not really the government or the industry's worry – they just want people to stop downloading for free in the future.And probably not many people would want to stump up for the cost of replacing their library of music. Others will be almost as unrepentant as the pirate inBBC 6 Music DJ Adam Buxton's brilliant Piracy Song, who leers: "I'm bad / and I steal / I don't care / I don't feel / I'll take anything you got and I'll put it in my pocket … " But if even a tiny minority of iTunes users chose to replace their songs, this relatively small income stream would probably make having the option worthwhile for Apple.If they do it, you read it here first, and I'll probably have a case for copyright infringement myself.
I recently sent an email to the Guardian, expecting a reply, but never received one. Are you all very rude there, or is there a technical reason?AR, LondonHonestly, we're not rude. The Readers' Editor, to which you wrote, has an autoreply function, so any email you send should get a response just to acknowledge receipt.However you are a Tiscali user - and at present, Tiscali, now owned by TalkTalk, is "blackholing" (ie blocking) anything sent from the @guardian.co.uk domain. This means that even if you were to whitelist (auto-approve) emails from the guardian.co.uk domain, you wouldn't see them because Tiscali seems to think that we're spam.Obviously, we apologise for the fact that Tiscali readers aren't getting emails sent by us. We have alerted Tiscali/TalkTalk to the problem - but until its staff do something about it, you may have to suffer our silence.Emails being silently blocked isa perennial problem. There is no simple solution; mail that just gets dropped at the server side (before it gets to your mailbox) is a blessing when it rids you of spam, but a curse when it's actually email that you want to receive.As an alternative, you should be able to see emails sent from a guardian.co.uk address to a webmail address (though obviously notTiscali's webmail). For now, that might have to suffice. It is worth considering using one of the bigger webmail services - Yahoo Mail, Windows Live Mail and Google Mail being the obvious ones - because they are ISP-independent, and include spam folders to show what emails they have quarantined.If you've had similar problems on other ISPs, please tell us in the comments.
Yes, you've seen theiPad reviews. (You haven't? Go and read them. Insightful.) But what about the things that onlookers (and a few users) think? Some observations from all over Twitter. Well, from my Twitter feed.Mathew Ingramon theperplexing number of "unboxing" videos: "You know, I like gadgets as much as the next guy, but the whole "unboxing video" thing is just pathetic - I mean, come on. Seriously, do running buffs video themselves opening a new box of shoes?  do scotch snobs video themselves opening a box of single-malt?" Then again, isn't the slow reveal what strippers have traded on for ages? Plus - Ingram was then inundated with videos of Scotches and shoes being unboxed. Truly, the internet spreads its net wide. "I submit that they got that idea from gadget nerds and/or they are gadget nerds," Ingram protested.Oh, did someone mention an iPad unboxing video?Onward: David Carr of the New York Timesthinks sales of the iPad will explode: "sales will jailbreak nerd kingdom quickly because you can't sit next to it and not want. Don't have to peer in like iPhone." That fact that it presents itself - rather than needing to be looked into - may be a key element.Carr also thinks that "for people who are far too wired, #iPad will be 3rd place, something for after [they] close [the] lid on laptop. [Its] lack of multitasking [will be] a plus." Remember how Sony marketed the PlayStation 2 as a "third place" - not home, not work, but gaming?Andthat"People will love reading and consuming stuff on #iPad. Making stuff? Not so much. A lean back device, not lean forward." Though we could probably guess that.Andy Ihnatko, whose unboxing video that is, says that "the iPad generates almost no heat, even after heavy use. Also has no fan so it's quiet." (This was on twit.tv, which doesn't offer a URL.)Many reviewers make the point that Apple's proprietary A4 chip uses much less power; and the iPad doesn't have a moving hard drive, meaning it uses much less power than your laptop.Patrick LaForge of the New York Timesnotesthat "Other reviewers report battery life of 9.5 to 11+ hours for iPad, depending on whether WiFi etc. left on. On a plane, you turn that off."David Chartierquizzes"All these iPad reviews and not a single word about the bizarre lack of built-in apps like Weather and Stocks? Shenanigans."Agreat ideafrom Bryan Bell: "Is anyone making a necklace case for the iPad? I want to rock my iPad like Flavor Flav rocks a clock." Yes, it takes a nation of millions to hold our sack.Oh, and finally, there's an app for that: theiPad tea thermometer. Warning: may only work on one day per year.
It's Stephen Fry. It's an unboxing. It's... an iPad.Fry managed to get his hands on one to write thisreviewfor Time Magazine.He doesn't say much, but then he is quite an Apple fan boy. I think  he's in awe.Fromstephenfry.com
Two days from the iPad's US launch, key American reviewers have been given preview devices. The first reviews are now out, and so we turn to the godfather of gadget reviews,Walt Mossbergof the Wall Street Journal. Is the iPad really a game-changer for the netbook market - and for the publishing industry?In a cool and rational assessment of his trial with the iPad,&nbsp; Mossberg says the  iPad "is an advance in making more-sophisticated computing possible via a simple touch interface on a slender, light device", but holds off by saying it will take time to see if the iPad presents a major challenge to the netbook market.Suitable for web readers and light writersIf the bulk of your computer use involves giant documents, highly controlled editing or lengthy writing, the iPad won't work for you. What it does work for, said Mossberg, is consuming - web reading, video, music, gaming, newspapers and magazines and books, as well as short-form writing and social networking: "My verdict is that, while it has compromises and drawbacks, the iPad can indeed replace a laptop for most data communication, content consumption and even limited content creation, a lot of the time. But it all depends on how you use your computer."Battery lifeBattery life was 15% better than Apple's 10-hour claim. Watching four full-length films, four TV episodes and a 90-minute presentation eventually burnt the battery up after 11 hours and 28 minutes, with email, wifi and full screen brightness on.Specs• 9.7" screen• 1.5lbs• Nonreplaceable battery• Memory: 16Gb, 32Gb, 64Gb• Wifi or wifi + 3G• Price: $499 to $829• Data charges for 3G model: $15 to $30 per monthThe touch-screen keyboard was easy to adjust to and more comfortable than many of the smaller, physical keyboards on netbook rivals, said Mossberg. It was also accurate and productive, which will be a relief to those of us who spend as much time correcting input text on the small iPhone screen as we do writing it.The web browser won't display Flash and has no tabbed browsing, though it has added bookmarks and shows full-screen web pages.Mossberg also listed a few 'annoying limitations': "The email program lacks the ability to create local folders or rules for auto-sorting messages, and it doesn't allow group addressing... And the Wi-Fi-only version lacks GPS. Also, videophiles may dislike the fact that the iPad's screen lacks wide-screen dimensions, so you either get black bars above or below wide-screen videos, or, if you choose an option to fill the screen, some of the picture may get cut off."AppsNearly all the 150,000 apps developed for iPhone will work on the iPad, though they run either in a small box in the centre of the screen or double in size, which can make some of the graphics blocky. At launch, 1,000 iPad apps will be on offer between $3.99 and $49.99 in the US and developers appear to be charging more than they have for iPhone apps.Testing the Wall Street Journal's iPad app, Mossberg will set juices flowing: "I found it gorgeous and highly functional - by far the best implementation of the newspaper I have ever seen on a screen."Unlike the Journal's Web site, or its smart-phone apps, the iPad version blends much more of the look and feel of the print paper into the electronic environment."eBooksiPad is heavier than the Kindle and needs to be held with two hands, but otherwise offers a better user experience than Amazon's ebook reader with no eye strain and a superior colour screen. Kindle still has a far bigger bookshelf however with 400,000 titles compares to 60,000 for iPad.Netbook marketLack of some vital features - most notably a camera and USB ports - will make it difficult for the iPad to compete in the netbook market, particularly because consumers won't really understand the iPad until they start using it as "it's qualitatively different, a whole new type of computer". It won't succeed unless people chose it to replace bulkier, more heavily-featured netbooks.The New York Times verdict: David Pogue on Apple's polarising deviceDavid Pogue in theNew York Timeshas a succinct and entertaining review of what he calls "a gigantic iPod Touch" – wisely divided his review into two halves: one for the techies, and one for everyone else.For the techies:Pogue is dismissive of the bookstore because of its "puny selection", because iPad is hard to read in sunlight (perhaps Mossberg never leaves his study?) and because ebooks can't be read on any other device - even a Mac. The screen leaves "grossly apparent" fingerprints and the keyboard experience is "horrible". Because Apple won't support Flash, "it will be years before many of the web's videos become iPad viewable". There's no multitasking, no USB ports and no camera, those and other features no doubt being saved for later models in true Apple form."The bottom line is that you can get a laptop for much less money - with a full keyboard, DVD drive, USB jacks, camera-card slot, camera, the works. Besides: If you've already got a laptop and a smartphone, who's going to carry around a third machine?"For 'normal' people:The bigger touch screen is a whole new experience for maps, email and iBooks. The books app includes a rotation lock for reading in bed and animated page corners that turn at the same speed as your finger, and it's good that there's no need for a contract to cover the iPad's data. The big deal is the iPad apps themselves, however, from Scrabble to Marvel comics to Hulu. It's not a laptop, but if you primarily use the web to consume content then it may appeal."The bottom line is that the iPad has been designed and built by a bunch of perfectionists. If you like the concept, you'll love the machine."
The long Easter weekend is almost here and with the weather looking pretty grim (in the UK at least) there is every chance of some serious gaming. Of course, the question is *how* serious are you planning to make it?  For me it's pretty much all aboutSplinter Cell Conviction. Finished code has arrived and I am planning to put several hours into Sam Fisher's latest over the weekend. Initial thoughts after 2 levels? Brutal interrogation moves – smashing a suspect's head over a urinal/piano/sink etc - but a generally more accessible and forgiving Splinter Cell experience so far. More impressions on Conviction next week.What else? I imagine FIFA 10 will get a look in, especially with the inspiration of the Cup-winning Saints and their improbable run towards the playoffs. But what about you? What gaming are you planning for the Easter weekend?
The Easter edition of Chatterbox - back next week.
It is the biggest shakeup in the Ordnance Survey's 260-year history: from tomorrow you can download maps as detailed as 1:10,000 scale, or collect a list of locations appearing on maps at the 1:50,000 scale, or a conversion system for postcodes to grid references – free for personal or commercial use.The move marks a radical departure from the OS's previous financial model, under which every piece of map data had to be paid for, except for very low-volume experimental applications. It is also the outcome of a lobbying battle inside government between a "free data" faction led by Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web who has been advising government on making better use of open data, and the OS's current management allied with parts of the Treasury.The new arrangement also removes the principal objection that would-be internet entrepreneurs have had to OS maps – which, while admired for their quality, have been reviled by websites for their licensing terms, under which OS claimed ownership of any product created using them. That licensing has now been dropped: all that is required with the new maps is an attribution of their origin.Internet entrepreneurs who have been held back by licensing costs and restrictions expressed delight. Harry Metcalfe, who has been sued by the Royal Mail over the use by one of his sites, ernestmarples.com, of postcode-to-grid reference data, said: "The end of the licensing is brilliant – though I'll want to read it to be absolutely sure. The devil is in the detail."But the Ramblers' Association and private makers of paper maps expressed disappointment that OS is not forced to release the details necessary to produce competing commercial versions of its popular Explorer (1:25,000 scale) and Landranger (1:50,000 scale) maps.John Denham, the communities secretary, is visiting OS's Southampton offices tomorrow to formally launch the "OS OpenData" initiative, which he said "shows the UK is at the cutting edge of a digital revolution. The move to free up public data encourages fresh thinking – people re-using information in different and more imaginative ways than may have originally been intended … increasing access to Ordnance Survey data will attract a new wave of entrepreneurs and result in new solutions to old problems that will benefit us all. It will also drive a new industry, creating new jobs and driving future growth." Gordon Brown has made the creation of a high-tech economy part of the Labour Party's election platform.Berners-Lee welcomed the move: "I'm delighted that the Ordnance Survey is releasing this data for free re-use.It will help people make fuller use of other government data on data.gov.uk, as well as stimulating innovation in mapping itself."But OS has been less happy. It was caught by surprise whenGordon Brown announced the move in November– so much so that it was not quoted in the press release from its department touting the move. Brown set April as the deadline, and a hurried consultation opened in December and closed in mid-March.That suggested that the Explorer and Landranger maps would be available for commercial republishing. Documents seen by the Guardian suggest that OS considered lobbying the Ramblers, and its head Sir Chris Bonington, to get them to oppose the move on the basis that map quality would suffer.Instead the Ramblers welcomed the idea of opening up paper maps to competition – leading to disappointment when the details of the datasets was announced. "Explorer and Landranger are two of the things that we definitely wanted," said Des de Mor, its senior everyday walking officer. "Streetview [the 1:10,000 maps] has its uses for some of our work, but this stymies us in terms of using other businesses' mapping in rural areas for putting routes online." Existing OS maps lack detail that ramblers desire, he said.OS is government-owned but self-funding through the sale of licences to use its maps. It had revenues of about £117m in 2009, of which roughly half came from the public sector, and provided a dividend of about £5m to the Treasury. The new arrangements are expected to cost about £20m in forgone revenues – which the government anticipates will be made up through increased tax revenues. The Treasury has agreed to fund the difference.
Two lines in the recent budget speechbrought joy to the UK games industry. "I will offer help to the computer games sector," said Darling; ". . . we need to keep British talent in this country".The news should also bring joy for gamers; without a move like this we will lose out on the productions of exciting, British-based companies that brought us treats including Grand Theft Auto, the Fable series, Little Big Planet, and bestselling iPhone game Rolando.According to Tiga, the industry's trade association, games contribute £1bn a year to the UK's GDP, but securing funding for new games can be tricky. Digital producer Mike Dicks told me "because there are no tax breaks in the UK, English-language production companies often try to secure funding from Canada, finding Canadian ancestry in the team".But what form should this help take? Dan Hon, co-founder of Six to Start, which won the Best Game award at the SXSW festival for the Channel 4-funded gameSmokescreen, says the tax break needs to be equal to those in other countries. Montreal, for example,  pays 37.5% of the salaries of games development staff. "That kind of tax break makes a real difference to a small company or a startup," says Hon.It's important to get this right. Currently, the UK has a thriving games industry with a growing pool of talent, but a brain drain to foreign countries has already begun. Australia, Canada, France, South Korea, and the US all offer tax incentives to games companies; the  UK is not competing on a level playing field and is losing staff. Not all tax breaks are equal, but a well-designed one could ensure that we still have our games industry in 20 years' time.
Harold Beach, who has died aged 96, was the engineer with overall responsibility for the design of&nbsp;Aston Martin's most important and charismatic postwar cars. The DB4, DB5 and DB6 helped the firm prosper throughout the 1960s and&nbsp;epitomised everything an Aston Martin should be.These cars put the firm on the map as the builder of Britain's finest and most glamorous GT cars, helped in no small measure by the familiar silver DB5 which, with lethal additions, appeared as James Bond's car in the films Goldfinger (1964) and Thunderball (1965). Subsequent V8-engined Astons – also conceived by Beach – were larger and, to some, less appealing, although they accommodated changing expectations in luxury and performance. His final task, before retiring in 1978, was to engineer a&nbsp;power-operated soft-top for the V8 Volante model.Although the DB models were styled in Italy by Touring and had an engine designed by Tadek Marek, a Pole, it was Beach's platform chassis and suspension that tied it all together into a satisfying whole. Shuttling between London and Milan during its creation, Beach also contributed the trademark wing vents used by every subsequent Aston.Born in Acton, west London, Beach was educated privately and studied engineering at technical college to pursue his ambition to become a draughtsman. He started at&nbsp;Barker's, the London coachbuilders, on 30 shillings a week in 1928 under a tyrannical drawing office boss who threatened him with the sack if his printing work did not improve. Beach did not get much sympathy from his father, who promised him the strap if he lost his job.His work did improve and he went on to assist Viscount Curzon (later Earl Howe), a director of the Rolls-Royce coachbuilder Barker, with his various racing cars. Exposure to the finest high-performance machinery of the day – Alfa Romeo, Bugatti, Delage and Mercedes – fired the young man's enthusiasm for fast cars and racing.Aged 20, Beach left Barker for a job as a draughtsman for Beardmore, the taxi and truck builders based near Wimbledon, south-west London, but after three years joined a former Barker colleague, James Ridlington, making parts for Rolls-Royce and other companies. The highlight of his time there was his design of a lightweight aluminium racing body for a 4.25 litre Bentley, commissioned by Eddie Hall, a cotton-mill owner. The car was built to compete in a TT race in Ireland. Its best result was a second overall, made possible by a 48-gallon fuel tank, designed by Beach, that enabled the car to compete non-stop.Beach spent the second world war years working for the Hungarian engineer Nicholas Straussler on military vehicles, including the floating tanks used in the D-day landings. Beach, by&nbsp;then married, was working for Garner-Straussler Mechanisation, at&nbsp;Park Royal, north-west London, in&nbsp;1950 when he spotted a job advert for a design draughtsman for David Brown Tractors automobile division – in other words, the Aston Martin and Lagonda factories in west London that Brown, the Yorkshire tractor tycoon, had recently acquired and amalgamated.Beach started at Aston Martin Lagonda in September 1950 on £11 a week, just as the new DB2 model was getting into its stride. He started work on a successor to the DB2 almost immediately and, working alongside the former Auto Union grand prix car designer Robert Eberan von Eberhorst, produced the DB2/4 and the DB MkIII. By the time Beach replaced Eberhorst as chief designer at Aston Martin Lagonda in 1956, plans were well advanced for the DB4. Beach recalled taking the DB4 prototype to his home in Pinner, Middlesex, in the summer of 1957 and driving it to Brown's farm in Buckinghamshire where "Mr&nbsp;David" then tested it at high speed on local roads and pronounced it "a very promising motor car".The 140mph DB4 was launched to huge acclaim at the Earls Court motor show in 1958 and, although there were early problems with Marek's engine, it was a major success, so much so that production was transferred from London to a bigger factory at Newport Pagnell, Buckinghamshire. When Brown decided to move the Aston design department there in 1962, he lost most of the staff – except Beach and Marek.Beach retained his position after Brown sold loss-making Aston Martin in 1972 and through two subsequent changes of regime, including the liquidation debacle of 1974, until the firm&nbsp;began to find its feet again in the late 1970s.Beach was not a man to boast of his achievements and was content to fade into near obscurity during his 30-year retirement, although he did have a&nbsp;brief moment in the spotlight when he was the star guest at the DB4 50th anniversary celebrations at Newport Pagnell two years ago.Beach's wife, Mabel, predeceased him. He is survived by a stepson.• Harold Beach, car designer, born 15&nbsp;February 1913; died 24 January 2010
For nearly 15 years, this franchise has known its audience and struck to it relentlessly. Command &amp; Conquer has always been a game for Michel Bay fans; fond of big explosions, cheesy scripts and unsubtle, compelling gameplay. You'd be naïve to expect anyone at EA to even consider messing with such a reliable cash-cow …Which makes it all the more surprising that they did. C&amp;C4 is a totally different beast this time round, something you notice from the moment you are forced to log onto the game server to play it. Of course, some familiar elements remain. You can still play as either GDI or NOD, and levels are still prefaced by skipable cut-scenes, as if the developers knew there's only so much cheese one player can eat.For a start, collecting resources is a thing of the past. Tiberium still appears but now as green crystalline pools on the landscape, not needing to be physically collected. Personally, this feels like a mistake – yes, harvesting was a formulaic process, but protecting harvesters added another level of strategy that has been lost now it's gathered automatically. What you do get are random Tiberium crystals – red and blue, which can be collected by your units for added research and ranking points respectively.More fundamental concern the MCV's (now called "Crawlers") which are both mobile and come in 3 different classes – Offence, Defence and Support. Depending on which one you choose at the start of each level, you can build a strike force, establish a defence perimeter or engage in largely aerial attacks. It makes for a different style of gameplay; initially promising more depth and fluidity but quickly introducing new problems. For instance, you're drastically restricted in unit numbers (never more than about a dozen per level) and cannot switch MCV-type after the start unless you lose it in battle. This makes for a curiously plodding experience, as you shuffle your MCV around, spawning much the same units and structures wherever you unpack. It also makes defending previously conquered areas far more difficult, compared to an AI that can assault anywhere on the map from multiple mobile bases.As this is apparently the last C&amp;C story featuring the camp series uber-villain Kane, you have to wonder why such significant changes have been crammed in now. They invariably appeal more to a multiplayer audience, making the single player campaign feel like a rushed and poorly play-tested version of Warhammer's Dawn of War series. There's still much to enjoy in the game's new pace, but C&amp;C4's sweeping revision will lose many fans while not necessary appealing to that many new ones.
If there's one thing Nintendo owners have always been able to brag about, it's Mario Kart. Since its debut on the SNES in 1992, the series has been the definitive action/racing title. Nothing on a non-Nintendo console has ever quite cut the mustard.Sonic &amp; Sega All Stars Racing is the latest in a long line of pretenders to the throne. But unlike previous attempts, it's clear developer Sumo Digital has put a huge amount of effort into to not just making a game that cashes in on Mario Kart's success, but, to paraphrase Sir Alex Ferguson, one that can knock the classic series off its karting perch.One thing in which Sonic Racing can claim uncontested superiority is the graphics department – a kart racer has never looked so pretty. While this may not be helpful for those considering the Wii version of the game, in HD it offers a gloriously crisp and colourful array of landscapes, each with bucketfuls of incidental trackside garnish. It's a shame you have to zip through the scenery with such speed, so much is there to take in.The gameplay itself is similarly impressive. The controls are accurate and responsive, while the "powersliding" feature really adds something to the format, requiring perfect timing to charge your turbo booster as you slide through corners. Sacrilegious as it may sound, race for race I'd say Sonic Racing is actually slightly more enjoyable than the Nintendo title it's attempting to recreate.Meanwhile the variety of weapons, racers, competitions and missions to play through mean there's a great deal of longevity on offer. Track design is consistently excellent, multiplayer works well, on and offline. And the at times shameless use of Mario Kart-like staples means anyone familiar with the Nintendo series will be able to pick the basics up in no time at all. Green boxing gloves are green koopa shells. Red rockets are red koopa shells. Banana skins are traffic cones. You get the idea.Sonic All Star racing is, then, in many ways superior to its much vaunted rival. But what lets it down slightly, aside from occasionally dodgy collision detection, is the fact that the Sega universe simply isn't one that's as pleasing for your average gamer to play around in.Of the 20 drivers available, I struggled to recognise about half. And while Sega diehards will appreciate the references, the use of Shenmue, Crazy Taxi and Virtue Fighter characters just looks odd in some of the game's more cartoony settings. And while you can race as your Xbox Live avatar – a feature which comes into its own in online multiplayer – other than the Sonic tracks and characters, there's nothing here that has that same pleasing familiarity as racing as Yoshi or Donkey Kong.Of course, it shouldn't really matter what characters you're racing as if the game itself is great – they could have just called it Cute Animal Racing and be done with the use of licenses all together. Still, racing as an overweight cat that appeared in some forgotten Sonic game against a boy in a chicken shaped car just reinforces the fact that somehow, no matter what the developers did, you'd still feel like you'd be better off playing with Sonic's more established Italian rival.If you already own Mario Kart and a Wii there's probably not enough here to suggest you need another kart racer in your life. But for Xbox 360 or PS3 owners, there is, finally, something just about as good as Mario Kart – and incredibly fun – available for your console.
No self-respecting modern handheld console can afford to exist without an equivalent of the App Store, and Nintendo's DSiWare download service is one of the prime justifications for buying a DSi rather than an older variant of the DS. DSiWare had a bit of a slow start (Nintendo's certification process is notoriously bureaucratic and stringent), but it is starting to develop a decent library of value-for-money games, among which are some hidden gems.Super Yum Yum Puzzle Adventures, developed and published by British companies, looks like a kids' game at first glance, but soon reveals unexpected depth. Its premise is simple: you control Leon, a chameleon with a long tongue and an insatiable appetite for different-coloured fruit. He can reach otherwise inaccessible areas by extending his tongue horizontally or vertically and pulling himself across to fruit which are the same colour as him. He then gobbles the fruit and changes to whatever colour its leaves happen to be.This classic puzzle mechanic has some extra layers of complexity – some levels have raised areas, and if Leon is on a platform, he can't gobble ground-level fruit. Dotted around the levels are Leon's babies, and he will often have to rescue a certain number before acquiring the combined eating-power to tackle certain (helpfully labelled) larger fruit. If you find yourself in a cul-de-sac, you can rewind move by move. The game sprawls across four worlds with 12 levels each, and moving to a newly opened world involves negotiating a rhythm-action mini-game.If you want to check out what DSiWare is all about, Super Yum Yum Puzzle Adventures provides the perfect introduction. It's deceptively simple, cheap (800 Nintendo Points equates to around £7.50), yet as substantial as the average DS cartridge, and once you tune into its unique puzzle-language, it proves to be surprisingly challenging and fiercely addictive. Earlier (albeit less meaty) versions of it are available from Apple's App Store, too. But at last, it seems as though Nintendo's DSiWare is beginning to acquire some credibility.
Alec Bangham's decision to abandon clinical pathology and become a research scientist unleashed a career rich in discovery and innovation. It spanned six wonderfully fruitful decades during which Alec, who has died aged 88, became known as the father of liposomes.In 1952 he was one of the first to be appointed to the new Institute of Animal Physiology, Babraham, Cambridge, where he was a staff scientist for 30 years. Early research reflected the catholicity of his approach, driven by curiosity. He studied carriers of typhoid among Egyptians, the effect of cortisone on wound healing, and found that horses exhibited two types of haemoglobins. He tackled the surface chemistry of blood cells and found that&nbsp;pure phospholipids dispersed in water consisted of sets of closed membranes that were structurally and functionally like real cell membranes. He (and the world) called them liposomes, even if some affectionately prefer "Bangasomes". From this discovery in the 1960s, a&nbsp;new industry was&nbsp;to emerge.His fascination with the basic physics of how molecules permeate across membranes extended to the fusion and stickiness of membranes, blood clotting, anaesthetics and vitamin A intoxication. In contrast to many of today's set-ups, Alec always had a small laboratory of&nbsp;never more than two or three devoted staff. It received a stream of visiting scientists from all parts of the world, who became part of the extended family with Alec and his wife, Rosalind, at the centre. The impact of his work has been far-reaching, with tens of thousands of scientific papers, a succession of patents, a new journal, an international society, a profusion of conferences and&nbsp;the creation of companies.Excited when industry began to catch up with his ideas, Alec followed closely how liposomes could be used to treat chronic human diseases, whether it was cancer, fungal and mycoplasma infections or vascular disease. They could be used stealthily, like a Trojan horse, to deliver toxic drugs to their targets, as adjuvants for immunisation, and to deliver healthy genes where they were needed. He flew with Rosalind to&nbsp;Paris for dinner with Jacques Rouet, president of Christian Dior, to see liposomes being made by the kilogram. These little fatty vesicles became valuable in the cosmetics not only of&nbsp;Christian Dior but also Lancôme, Arden and numerous other companies.Alec was deeply aware that scientists in research institutes were envied by their peers in universities because many had permanent appointments, technical assistants and freedom to follow their curiosities. Yet he recognised the deprivations institutes imposed on scientists, who, for instance, missed out on the feedback generated by teaching. They were also forced to retire at the age of 61, an arrangement enforced by civil service rules that gave greater importance to age than creativity.As was to be expected, though, Alec found ways around this, and with Colin Morley at Addenbrooke's hospital, Cambridge, discovered that solid, rather than liquid, lung surfactant prevented lung tissue from filling up with fluid. A&nbsp;successful treatment for babies suffering from respiratory distress syndrome was developed, and artificial lung expanding compound, or&nbsp;"Alec", was launched, this time by a&nbsp;UK company. This new treatment gave great cause for rejoicing.Alec was awarded a doctorate of&nbsp;medicine from London University in 1965, was elected a fellow of the Royal Society in 1977 and of University College London in 1981, and made a distinguished fellow of the Royal College of Physicians in 1997. The landmark paper in which he had first described liposomes, with Malcolm Standish and Jeff Watkins, which was published in 1965, was recognised as&nbsp;a&nbsp;citation classic in Current Contents in 1989.The son of Donald Bangham, director of research at the British Coal Utilisation Research Association, and Edith Kerby, who was born in St&nbsp;Petersburg and had been a one-time interpreter for Emmeline Pankhurst, Alec was the eldest of three children. His early schooling at the Downs Quaker preparatory school, Colwall, Worcestershire, overlapped with the future twice-Nobel laureate Fred Sanger. He was taught English in his final two years by WH Auden.Photography was an enduring passion with Alec, and Auden paid him five cigarettes for taking a photograph of&nbsp;him with his wife of the day, Erika Mann, daughter of Thomas Mann, whom Auden had married so she could leave Germany. The school permitted Alec to visit his parents in Egypt, where his father was professor of&nbsp;physical chemistry in Cairo University. There, he&nbsp;photographed Jack Gaddum, who had been appointed by Alec's father to the chair of pharmacology and later became director of Babraham.Alec left Downs with barely the common entrance marks to get into Bryanston school, Blandford, Dorset. The story of his early academic career, however, did not presage the highly original and insightful research scientist who was to emerge. At school, Alec abandoned Latin as a lost cause, which excluded him from Oxbridge. At the outbreak of the second world war, he was not eligible for call-up, so, having read Microbe Hunters by Paul de Kruif, he decided to do medicine. He repeated French three times to gain access to London University, and failed his final MB MS (medicine) twice before emerging successfully from UCL.His first appointment was at Addenbrooke's hospital, followed by national service as a pathologist, becoming a captain in the Royal Army Medical Corps in 1948. Postings to Palestine and Fayid, Egypt, exposed him to the depressing task of carrying out postmortems on soldiers killed in action. Rosalind, who had qualified in medicine from King's College, London, joined him to live outside married quarters in a mud hut. With Colonel John Hunt (of Everest fame), expeditions to the mountains of the western desert were irresistible. In&nbsp;his autobiography, Hunt recalled these expeditions and with obvious affection, wrote of this "delightfully unconventional pair" – the Banghams on&nbsp;an ageing motorbike and sidecar and the Hunts in a dilapidated pre-war Standard 9.Alec was devoted to his family and addicted to sailing, cricket (he was a notable batsman in his day), photography, restoring Caucasian rugs, cars, scooters, making facsimiles of&nbsp;classical clarinet mouthpieces, and&nbsp;growing the largest vegetables in&nbsp;the locality.At the end of his life he was still bursting with ideas and still publishing. His latest hypothesis was that a person's bouquet of weak volatile organic compounds serves two purposes. In their uncharged state, they are permeable and smell and collectively identify an individual. When charged, they bond and make surfaces charge-free and invisible – fit to avoid rejection. It was a surreal moment when he gathered a small group of friends and colleagues to tell them all about this on the evening before he died.His wife predeceased him by a few months. He leaves three sons and a&nbsp;daughter.• Alec Douglas Bangham, haematologist, born 10 November 1921; died 9 March 2010
The government has published the Digital Economy bill's replacement Clause 18 (because 17 was killed off by the Liberal Democrat and Conservative peers, but they are now going to let it all slip away).Now the challenge is figuring out what it actually means, and what it changes.You can find the PDF of thesuggested amendmenton the DBIS site. The Government says it believes that "the amendment delivers the effect that the House of Lords wanted to achieve when it voted clause 18 into the Bill, but in a way that takes account of the legal and other concerns to which the clause gives rise."Specifically, "it provides for a limited power to propose regulations in the future. The regulations would allow copyright owners to apply for court injunctions. These injunctions would require ISPs (or other service providers) to block access to specified internet locations providing access to copyright infringing material. The safeguards are extensive, including provisions on consultation, threshold and proportionality, Parliamentary accountability, legitimate use of websites, freedom of speech, and ensuring due court process."DBIS also notes: "the new clause gives the Government powers to bring forward regulations to bring in the blocking of websites. For a website to be blocked a rights holder would be required to apply through the courts, not ask Ministers."So what's the view outside? Robin Fry, partner at law firm Beachcroft LLP says that blocking injunctions is a 'chaotic response':"The government is realising that pursuing individuals alone will never really work and has now been persuaded that blocking file locations is the way to go. It's evident from a series of failed legal actions against file-sharing networks that these are mostly lawful in the UK. It's only occasionally that sites such as Newzbin - specifically directed to copying movies - are caught out."Newzbin was a site which provided links to Usenet groups - some of which contained downloadable films: in acase which Newzbin lost in the high court, it was found that it had organised its system so as to encourage copyright infringement by its users."It's alarming that these blocking injunctions are to be wheeled out against websites and search engines which are not contravening any laws," says Fry. "This is a chaotic response to massive industry pressure."Update:Lilian Edwards, who is professor of internet law at the University of Sheffield (and also active with theOpen Rights Group, which opposes many provisions of the bill including blocking and disconnection), hasa stab on her personal blog. And it's very stabby:"In essence this is a power in principle to block any site on the Internet, any search engine and any P2P clent site, however legal. Of course the govt will say this is limited by all the other things a court has to consider before making an order. Which is true. But there seems no reason at all to make this definition so much wider, especially given the government's ostensible purpose was to narrow the scope of clause 18 and make it "enforceable"."She points out how ISPs had been worried about incurring costs if a case went to court."Mandelson pledges in his open letter that this has now been changed in the interests of due process. To quote, "ISPs should not be expected to pay court costs"."Great! but if you look at the actual regulations, all it says in s 97B (7)(c) is that there MAY be regulations to this effect. Or there may not. Nothing may be said in the regulations (quite likely, quite usual) in which case it will be left to courts to develop their own rules - and who knows how that might go.She adds:"Which leaves me wondering why the amendments that were proposed by the Lib Dems at 3rd reading, to try to control pre-judicial blocking, and which were backed generally by civil liberties groups, are conspicuously NOT in the list of things to be included in the future regulations, either optionally or mandatorily."Others? We're still seeking informed response.
Evony, the American-registered games company that was suing the British games blogger Bruce Everiss for libel in an Australian court over a series of highly critical blog posts, has dramatically dropped its case after just two days of hearings.The company abruptly abandoned its case against Everiss, which was being heard in the supreme court in Sydney, halfway through the second day of the case – and is now facing a legal bill of A$114,000 (£68,800) for the defence's costs.In a statement put out by Benjamin Gifford, the "vice development director" of Evony's legal and intellectual property strategic division, the company said that it would not pursue the case in Australia or elsewhere. He told the Guardian that the decision had been driven by criticism from players of the game. "A lot of our players expressed opinions about the lawsuit," he said, "and we reacted to that."Everiss, who lives in Coventry, declared himself "relieved" but noted that a quirk of the Australian legal process means that the case is not concluded until Evony pays a second tranche of A$80,000 of costs by 12 April. If it does not, the case reconvenes.Sources from the case suggested that Evony did not want the publicity to overshadow its launch of the next version of its game, Evony: Age II, which is due for release imminently.Everiss, a 30-year veteran of the UK games industry, has posted a series of blogposts on hisbruceongames.comsite since last summer in which he has said that Evony had previously been owned by a Chinese company, UMGE, and that it was linked to a Chinese "gold farming" business – which gets low-paid workers to earn virtual money in online games such as World of Warcraft, and then sells it, against the game's rules, to other players. He has also detailed connections between Evony's owners and a company being sued by Microsoft for alleged click fraud on search engine adverts.Evony denied the claims at the time and launched a furious legal attack on Everiss – and then to the surprise of many chose to pursue its lawsuit in Australia, where neither Everiss lives nor the company was headquartered. It claimed that Everiss's blog had readers there, but was accused of "libel tourism" in return.Evony's case began to break down during the second day when Gifford was cross-examined. He admitted that his claim to have BA and MBA degrees were not true. Everiss's lawyers, led by Damian Sturzacker of Marque Lawyers, also established links between Evony and two companies, Regan Mercantile of Hong Kong – owned by a mysterious woman named Lu Lu – and Regan Mercantile of New York.Under Australian libel law, only companies with fewer than 10 employees can sue for libel. Sturzacker sought to demonstrate that Evony in effect employed more than 10. The court also heard that the company had 14 vacancies. Separately, Everiss hasposted a series of photographsapparently from the company's Chinese development arm showing a huge development team at work in Guangzhou, China – though this was not presented as evidence in the case.If Evony does not pay an A$80,000 tranche of costs by 12 April, then the case could resume – although Everiss's team expects that it could win a summary judgement. The costs of Evony's legal team, including Ric Lucas, the chair of the Australian Law Society's libel committee, could be double the A$114,000 that it has to pay Everiss's side.However, Evony is believed to be highly profitable, although its exact financial position is unclear, as its revenues are remitted to Regan Mercantile.Everiss's legal team had questioned its decision to bring the case in Australia rather than the UK, where Everiss lives, or the US, where Evony has been registered as a business in the US since 22 July 2009, according to documents filed with the court on Tuesday – though Everiss's first post about the company was on 10 July that year.A previous hearing in December was due to help settle the matter, but Evony changed its legal team – moving from suburban Sydney firm Warren McKeown Dickson to Canberra-based Colquhoun Murphy – and the hearing was delayed.
Photograph byMeg PickardSo, it's goodbye from me.As of today I will no longer be gracing these pages, havingtaken voluntary redundancyas part of a wider series ofchanges at the Guardian.I've spent the best part of my working life as a writer and editor here, so opting to leave has been a tough decision - not least because writing in these pages has been an incredible privilege.I've travelled all over the world, interviewed the likes ofSteve JobsandBill Gates, and witnessed first-hand some of the incredible changes happening to our lives. I've gonebehind the scenes at a Nato command centre, championedgreatcausesand met some of the internet'sweirdest celebrities. I've even managed to embroil myself in my fair share of legal actions and managed topiss off Tim Berners-Lee(we're OK now, I think).And, as part of one of the most forward thinking news organisations around, I got the chance to help guide some of the Guardian's thinking and act as the guinea pig for all sorts of new ideas.Looking back, I've had the benefit of working with some fantastic colleagues. I'd been writing for the Guardian as a freelance for a year or two before I started working full-time on MediaGuardian.co.uk, and then got a sudden boost when I joined the team at Online in 2004, under the tutelage of Vic Keegan. A couple of years later - having helped navigate our redesign and rebirth as Technology Guardian in 2005 - moved to become the paper's latest technology correspondent. Three years later I went to become our first correspondent in San Francisco, where I'm writing this today.So I say thanks to all the people at the Guardian - most of all those close colleagues who taught me new things or got me out of scrapes: Vic, Neil, Charles, Jack, Jemima, Rick and Richard among them. Special thanks to Emily Bell, Janine Gibson, Lisa O'Carroll and Jon Casson, who gave me a series of breaks and opportunities that seemed out of reach to someone so young.There are many more great friends and good colleagues (past and present) behind the scenes, too, but I'm already starting to sound like a needy Oscar speech giver and I'm certain that somebody somewhere is playingthe "You're Boring" song.However, before I go, this also seems like the most appropriate place to say thanks to you lot: the readers.For every weird phone call, strange comment, flame or abusive email - which are all part of the job as a reporter - there were many other moments, tips, information and bits of advice you gave me that made a real difference. Writing and editing for me has always been a conversation. In return I hope I managed - at least sometimes - to entertain, explain and understand the things that are happening around us.Anyway, today I'm packing up my gear and logging out for the last time.If you want to know any more about where I'm going or what I'm doing, I'll be detailing my adventures onmy personal blog(which, it disturbs me to say, is almost a decade old now and predates my life as a journalist) and throughTwitter.Right now I don't know what my next step is exactly, or whether it will be in California, Britain or somewhere else entirely. But I do know it will be fun.See you there.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Next month will see the long-awaited return of Ubisoft'sSplinter Cellseries, with super agent Sam Fisher discovering that he's been betrayed by the Third Echelon agency,andgoing rogue to discover the truth about his daughter's death.It's a very different adventure for the Tom Clancy hero – and complete with a six-hour co-op campaign - a key title for the publisher's prolific Montreal studio. But it's been several years since Double Agent and much has happened since that title secured rave reviews in the specialist press. What can we expect from the multi-million selling brand in the modern era?Well, to find out we've secured an exlcusive video interview with the leaders of the Splinter Cell team - butyouwill be providing the questions. If there's anything you want to know about the past, present or future of the series, just add your query to the comments section below. I'll select the most interesting questions and get them to the dev team who will film their responses for inclusion on the blog next week!So yes, Sam Fisher is at your mercy - now grill him!
Protestors at Parliament objecting to the provisions of the Digital Economy bill.Photo byamilmon Flickr.Some rights reservedThe Liberal Democrats have called for the Digital Economy bill to be scrapped and re-introduced afresh in the next Parliament, and say they will oppose its rushed passage if, as expected, it is speeded through to become law in the "wash-up" ahead of a general election.Paul Burstow, the Liberal Democrat chief whip, told the Guardian that although the party's opposition might not be enough on its own to prevent the bill from passing, he hoped that the arguments being put forward - that the issues needed more debate than has been possible - might sway one of the other parties into delaying its passage."During the negotiation and discussion in the wash-up we will make it clear that we think that it isn't a suitable way to deal with the issues remaining such as site blocking," Burstow said. "We will put amendments down and make the case and hope that the government and the Conservatives will agree that it shouldn't proceed at this stage," Burstow said.The bill has proved controversial principally because it would require internet service providers (ISPs) tomonitor internet connectionsprovide details in cases of alleged copyright infringement, and the powers that it gives to "copyright holders" - expected mainly to be record labels and film companies - to lay accusations against people who might then see their internet connection suspended without proof of wrongdoing. It also contains provisions that could lead to sites which are "mostly infringing" of copyright being blocked by ISPs. That could mean that a site such as Wikileaks, which acts as a conduit for documents leaked anonymously by whistleblowers, would vanish from the internet as seen in Britain.On Tuesday night the governmentpublished a new clause 18 for the billto replace one which has raised the ire of lobbying groups. The key difference from the previous clause appears to be that the secretary of state for business would have the final say on whether an internet site could be blocked.The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills says of the addition: "the new clause sets out to achieve the main aims of the original clause 18, but with some new safeguards:"The new clause is a legally enforceable version of the clause inserted by the Opposition, with additional safeguards:"It provides for a limited power to propose regulations in the future. The regulations would allow copyright owners to apply for court injunctions. These injunctions would require ISPs (or other service providers) to block access to specified internet locations providing access to copyright infringing material;"The safeguards are extensive, including provisions on consultation, threshold and proportionality, Parliamentary accountability, legitimate use of websites, freedom of speech, and ensuring due court process."Hundreds of people protested outside Parliament last week over those provisions of the bill. The Open Rights Group has also been critical of the amount of time that has been devoted to debating it: while it has had three readings in the House of Lords, including a committee stage, it has had only one reading in the Commons, and if it proceeds to the "wash-up" it will not receive a detailed line-by-line examination in committee. Instead, it would be pushed through with the minimum of debate.The bill's second reading in the Commons is scheduled for Tuesday 6 April, when Gordon Brown is also expected to ask the Queen to dissolve Parliament ahead of a general election on 6 May. That would trigger the fast-track "wash-up" where legislation that has passed through one house of Parliament will be considered by all the main party whips for royal assent. Typically, bills required to keep the process of government going - such as the Budget or finance bills - are nodded through in a truncated third reading.Doing that with the Digital Economy bill could prove more controversial if the government puts it into the wash-up, says Burstow. "We will vote against it at the third reading," he said.Burstow said that discussions about the parties' positions occur all the time as part of Parliamentary business. "The question will be whether these concerns are shared by one of the other parties." Such opposition would constitute an obstacle to the bill, rather than a roadblock, he acknowledged. "We're putting down some markers.""It might be that this is legislation where there's recognition that it need more time to be properly scrutinised, which isn't possible this close to a general election," Burstow said.The question of whether the bill has had sufficient debate has also caused a row between the BPI, which represents record labels and backs the bill, and the Open Rights Group, which opposes its strictures on internet users and says it would choke off services such as public Wi-Fi. The ORG says that the bill has had insufficient debating time in the Commons, and has challenged the BPI to say whether it thinks the time allotted - expected to amount to about 90 minutes - is sufficient for a bill of this importance. The BPI says that the time allotted is a matter for the party managers - but has declined so far to answer queries raised by Guardian columnist Cory Doctorow on whether it thinks the time allotted under the present timetable is sufficient.Thousands of lettershave been sent to MPs by constituentsvia the 38 Degrees site complaining at the lack of debate of the bill.
One of the more baffling parts of the recentViacom versus YouTube court revelationswas the astonishing finding that executives from MTV and pals were ordering YouTube to take down videos that infringed its copyright - while their minions were simultaneously uploading those selfsame copies.Even if we're being generous and it was merely a miscommunication between the media giant's different arms, it looked like a colossal cock-up at the corporate level thatsurelycouldn't be repeated.Think again.Sony is proving that history just enjoys repeating itself byfiling a copyright infringement takedown against one of its own artists, some unknown who goes by the name of Beyonc&eacute;. The incident, reported by a number of websites, appears to have been an attempt to stamp out unofficial uploads but in fact blocked videos onBeyonc&eacute;'s official YouTube channel instead(at the time of writing, there didn't appear to be any more issues).YouTube has had its fair share of scrapes with the owners of music videos,particularly in the UK, but incidents like this suggest that even today the record industry doesn't quite seem to be evolving. Music videos are, after all, adverts for the music and the artists they're selling. Who blocks adverts?
Becky Hogge from the Open Rights Group joins Aleks Krotoski and Charles Arthur in a special Tech Weekly, recorded live at the Science Museum's Dana Centre.Our other guests? Austin Heap is a wunderkind hacker who used his own encryption software, Haystack, to open up the Iranian internet in the aftermath of the disputed elections in 2009. By breaking through the Iranian government's blockade, the software allowed people on the ground in Tehran to access communication tools they could use to describe unfolding events to the rest of the world.Meanwhile, personal surveillance has reached an all-time high: our web traffic is observed and recorded by governments and corporations. With every click we create personal digital identities that 'belong' to other people. Should we be worried about the private becoming public in this way, or should we reclaim ourselves using encryption software that hides who we are and where we go online? NO2ID's Christine Zaba will be on hand to lead you through the issues and the options.Links:www.haystacknetwork.comwww.torproject.orgwww.no2id.netDon't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Google said it appeared to have inadvertently sparked the blockage of search queries from across China this evening, reassuring users who feared authorities were shutting off all access in response to the internet giant's decision to close its mainland service.Users had reported that all standard searches on Google's Hong Kong-based service were failing. But it seems that the introduction of a new search parameter, which by chance included a sensitive three-letter phrase, had triggered an existing keyword filter.It was still possible to search from toolbars on some browsers and to use the advanced search function on thegoogle.com.hkpage.However, standard searches from the page resulted in the internet connection being reset so that no results were displayed, however innocuous the search.Some people appeared to be unable to access the Hong Kong-based search page at all, while others found google.com searches also returned error messages.A handful of people reported online that they had been able to conduct some searches unhindered, although it was not clear whether they were using the regular service.Google's decision toclose its mainland search servicesaw users redirected to an uncensored Chinese language service hosted in Hong Kong.Beijing's own internet filtering system meant searches using sensitive words were already blocked.A Google spokesman said: "Lots of users in China have been unable to search on Google.com.hk today. This blockage seems to have been triggered by a change on Google's part."In the last 24 hours "gs_rfai" started appearing in the URLs of Google searches globally as part of a search parameter, a string of characters that sends information about the query to Google so we can return the best result."Because this parameter contained the letters rfa the great firewall was associating these searches with Radio Free Asia, a service that has been inaccessible in China for a long time – hence the blockage. We are currently looking at how to resolve this issue." Bloggers had been quick to spot the new parameter and suggest it was to blame.Google has set up a web page to allow users to monitor the availability of its services in China, but its usefulness has been questioned because it indicated that search was still available.In January, the company said it was no longer willing to self-censor, citing increasing internet censorship and a Chinese-originated cyber attack, which it said targeted human rights activists' data as well as intellectual property.Beijing has argued that all governments control internet content and denies any involvement in hacking, which is illegal in China. It described Google's decision to close its mainland service as "totally wrong".
One of the world's biggest entertainment groups is seeking a student intern to spy on filesharers and monitor messageboards for "pirate groups and other pirate activities". Warner Bros Entertainment UK is offering £17,500 for the 12-month position, based in London.Details of the job have been posted at the University ofManchester's careers website, where it is listed as "Anti-Piracy Intern". A century ago, this would have been a position aboard a merchant navy ship: now it involves lurking in blog comments sections and onIRC chat. Beginning in July 2010, the lucky student will be tasked with all the dirty work of a major entertainment group in 2010. Besides monitoring internet forums and private BitTorrent sites, the student will be expected to make "trap" purchases of illegal material, to issue copyright infringement notices, and even to develop automated bots that will scan for pirated files.Warner Bros are looking for applicants studying computer-related degrees, particularly with "internet experience, ideally including peer protocols ... web forums and newsgroups". While FTP and IRC knowledge is a bit more specialised, it's essentially a description of any 18-year-old geek.Of course, quite a few 18-year-old geeks have downloaded an illegal Lady Gaga song here or there. And so Warner Bros' job listing doesn't make any reference to applicants' chequered or not-so-chequered pasts. After all, what better applicants than those who have trolled Rapidshare blogs for the new Caribou album, or who fire up BitTorrent whenever they set about burning a new mix CD? Besides, filesharing advocacy groups would love to have a friend on the "inside".TorrentFreakhas invited its readers to apply for the internship and spy on the spies.Be quick! Applications close tomorrow, 31 March.
99.9% of Nintendo DSi XL users care little for the engineering behind their new console. But there are those - almost certainly men - who like to dig a little deeper. Tech DIY site iFixit have opened up the DSi XL andhad a peek at its innards. Ever wondered what CPU the XL was using? Or the details of the battery? Come on through then...The main highlights are described by Kyle Wiens from iFixit. First up the CPU.Nintendo is again using a custom ARM CPU, manufactured in December of 2009. This chip is marked identically to the DSi, and definitely not the Tegra chip that had been rumored.Owners probably already know this, but battery life is improved on the XL.Battery capacity is significantly greater than the DSi. The DSi uses an 840 mAh battery compared to the DSi XL's 1050 mAh battery. Given the internal similarity of the XL to the original DSi, we assume the extra juice helps power the larger-sized screens.And what about the electronics?The logic board grew proportionally to its casing. We're sure Nintendo's engineers were happy with not having to pack as much electronics as possible in a smaller design. In this instance, Nintendo's going against the normal trend in electronicsFinally the screen gets some comments.The lower display is held in place solely by the pressure of the logic board secured over it -- no screws! Although the screen size has been enlarged, the resolution still remains the same at 256 x 192 pixels per screen.What do you think then? Do you care about the innards of your console? And have you ever attempted to fix a broken one yourself?
With just a few days to go until the first gangs of salivating technophiles get their mitts on the iPad, the Apple hype machine is cranking up into gear.First up, the company startedpunching out videosshowing users through the various things that the iPad can do - including fairly obvious activitieslooking at photos,web surfingandwatching videos.Enough to persuade you to part with your cash? Perhaps not. But they keep trying by showing off some of the added features - like this tour of the iBook service.There was also confirmation on Monday that one of America's biggest electronics retailers - Best Buy - would have iPads on sale in store on launch day. That in turncranked up sales expectations, which are now reaching nosebleed-high levels for a product that hardly anyone has seen and used.Of course, part of this is the media's obsession with the iPad (and yes, I am aware of the circular ) which comes not just because of the way Apple itself is viewed, but also the desperate hopes of many publishers that it can save their businesses in a stroke.If that strikes you as overly optimistic, then you're not alone.But then again, perhaps that's just the cynic in me. After all, not only do Apple's pretty videos fail to tell us a great deal about the product - but British users still haven't had some critical questions about the iPad answered. You know, the terribly awkward things like price, availability, launch date.Until those niggling little issues get addressed, all the guided tours in the world won't make a difference.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Bad Company 2, Final Fantasy XIII, God of War III - there were plenty of actual games to discuss on the 'box this week. And somehow, they actuallywerediscussed - rather than being overlooked in favour of fashionable meat products or terrifying dating diasters.Also on the agenda - web-based strategy games and people becoming upset by In Bruge quotes... eh?To make sense of it all, we called in Best Of newcomer OneDaveOfMany, who brought short, sharp justice to a week of chat...War GamesLarge portions of the chat this week surrounded the recent release of Battlefield Bad Company 2 on both the 360 and PS3, boxers new and old were signed up to squads and clans and spent many a morning regaling heroic stories of the previous night's skirmishes. With our well established clan tag of 'NaN' dominating the servers it was another testament to the 'box bringing people together in the carnage of the online killing fields.St00 summed this up in his own indomitable way on Friday: "Pretty much 12 v 12 all bloggers for at least two matches last night. It was incredible. Bubbles of laughter joy kept escaping at times. I may have squeaked at times." Beaniedad on Friday revealed the sacrifices he has to endure for the greater good: "Wife making 'Did you really spend three hours playing games with people you don't even know?' comments this morning." Chin up soldier, you're an example to us all.Though such harmonious discussion was derailed slightly on Tuesday when some rivalry broke out between the 360 and PS3 players, which led to some not particularly threatening smack talk and oneupmanship, all in aid of a conflict that can never actually able be resolved. Much like real war then, I guess.New GamesThe other big new released discussed this week were mainly God Of War 3 and Final Fantasy XIII, Chubster led straight out of the gate with the former on Monday morning with his usual enthusiasm: "God of War III then - blimey. My socks have officially been knocked off on a number of occasions. 'Bombastic' is probably the best word to describe it. How is everyone else getting on with it?" The answer to this seemed to be very well on the whole with the blog appreciating the game's epic scale and over the top gore, though a couple of people did reveal frustration with some of the jumping mechanics and Shadowmind was having trouble even getting started: "right at the beginning (30secs in), there is a fallen tree across your path, and you have to tap 'O' very fast. well I can't get past that, I was going crazy". All together now: you're doing it wrong.The talk of Final Fantasy continued in a positive vein as well, though one of the game's biggest proponents OfficePest seemed to have forgotten one of the key mechanics by the end of the week: "What's the big robot-ish looking thing that eats the dinosaur looking thing in the cut scene?! What's the massive thing in the background on the plains of Pulse?!! I'm scared! Am I going to have to fight these big, scary monsters?!!!" Maybe you could just try and be friends?Elsewhere CBPodge, erstwhile fount of FF knowledge, gave a concise and informative summary of nearly all the previous games on Wednesday (too much to quote here I'm afraid) and there was continued discussion of the various games in the series 'boxers have enjoyed over the years.Quote pro quoWednesday saw the return of an old 'box favourite, a TonyHayers quote causing offense to someone unfamiliar with his tendency to steal the words of others. This time the instigator was the film In Bruges (a 'box quoting favourite to begin with) as discussion had strayed onto discussion of the city. Questions as to whether an apology, by way of another quote from the film, actually counted remain unanswered. EnglishRed however didn't seem to be taking it all very seriously: "a quote too far? I love that film, Anthony Hopkins was miscast though." Still the incident fired up some discussions on blog etiquette, BigWorv laid down his law in no uncertain terms: "The chatosphere will never be reached if comments aren't made because someone may not 'get' them. This isn't the Early Learning Centre of chat."  With this, the topic died down and normal service was quickly resumed, rumours of engagement in a virtual group hug were strongly denied by all involved.A Serious HobbyAnother throughline of the week was the ongoing manoeuvrings of those locked in the web-based strategy gamesDiplomacyandNeptune's Pride. Both provided ample opportunity for bloggers to form and break alliances and generally confuse the rest of us with their tactical planning. RustyJames tried an unusual tack to eliminate players from the game: "Re: Diplomacy I think rob may have left when I tried to charge him 'inter-galactic council tax'." Still the experience was obviously enjoyable as another game of Diplomacy was already being organised by the end of the week, and there was even a play-by-email game of Civilization 4 in the offering care of Limni.MiscellanyAs usual with the blog there was an excess of smaller topic covered over the course of the week, so a quick shout out to alcohol chat (Wednesday), older women blog (for the umpteenth time unfortunately – Wednesday), programming tricks (Monday), Ridley Scott yay or nay (Thursday), books into games (Friday), the ongoing PES Cup (all week), Home vs. Microsoft games room (Thursday), RIP the Bill (Friday) and finally the constant spam attacks and their unexpected self-awareness possibly leading to the creation of Skynet and the destruction of all mankind (all week).Get Stuck InNew to the box, or unable/unsure about joining the weekly chat but keen to get involved? We have a rather extensive Wiki set up and maintained with details of people's gamertags, PSN ID's and the like as well as specific details for individual games such as PES. Find ithere.If you want to get involved then why not add yourself, and start befriending some of the Chatterbox faithful? They're a lovely bunch I promise. At the moment we have nightly Battlefield Bad Company 2 games going on both Xbox 360 and PS3, albeit in a rather haphazard way and a slightly more organised Thursday Modern Warfare sessions on the PS3. Alongside this Goody84 is always on the lookout for new PES players for the various leagues and cups that he arranges.Quote(s) of the Week"Pleased that I managed to kill one of the baby giant Turtles on the Pulse plains."Umboros23 does serious damage to his RSPCA application."Apparently they've abolished the Rule of Thumb. Nanny state."HenryPootle despairs at the latest restriction to his civil liberties."Does Richard Branson still own Virgin Internet? I want to stamp on his beard."PicPicPic plans a very specific revenge strategy."I woke up next to an empty Pot Noodle this morning"Lazybones tries a new approach to dating.Welcome:Tinkermann, Chubbz, EndofLevelBaddie , Ronarid , destry54, MagneticNW, w3rthers, SayzarFilms:Wall-E, Shutter Island, Alice in Wonderland, Moon, Kick Ass, Looking for Eric, ZombielandTV:The Pacific, Twin Peaks, Man Men, Pineapple Dance Studios (!), Generation Kill, Heroes, The Wire (shocking I know), The BillMusic:Nine Black Alps, MGMT, Laura Marling, Gay Dad, Mansun.Links:Haikus about Godzilla. With pictures.Zombie Flowchart
Australia came under fire  today from the United States for its proposed internet filtering system, which, if implemented, would be the strictest of any democracy.A US state department official said that it had raised concerns with Australia over the plans, which are to be voted on by its parliament."We remain committed to advancing the free flow of information, which we view as vital to economic prosperity and preserving open societies globally," Michael Tran, a state department spokesman told the Associated Press."We don't discuss the details of specific diplomatic exchanges, but I can say that we have raised our concerns on this matter with Australian officials."Internet companies Google and Yahoo have already condemned the proposal as a heavy-handed measure that could restrict access to legal information.Australia's communications minister, Stephen Conroy, said the filter would block access to sites that include child pornography, sexual violence and detailed instructions in crime or drug use. The list of banned sites could be updated based on public complaints. But he declined to say what the US had told Australia.National censorship of overseas sites is becoming a trade issue.Sergey Brin, co-founder of Google,told the Guardian last week:"Since services and information are our most successful exports, if regulations in China effectively prevent us from being competitive, then they are a trade barrier."Many countries – including the UK – use filtering systems to limit access to outlawed material: in the UK the independent Internet Watch Foundation lists sites internet service providers (ISPs) are asked to block. The list issecret, and frequently updated. In Germany and Canada ISPs use similar blocking systems; in Italy gambling sites are blocked.But critics say that the Australian plan, which has been proposed repeatedly over the past five years, exceeds what is necessary and strays into matters of free speech."Our primary concern is that the scope of content to be filtered is too wide," Google wrote in its submission to the Australian government, suggesting that the filter – which would be mandatory and state-controlled – would slow browsing speeds.The company said it already had its own filter to block child pornography."Some limits, like child pornography, are obvious. No Australian wants that to be available and we agree," Google said. "But moving to a mandatory ISP-level filtering regime with a scope that goes well beyond such material is heavy-handed and can raise genuine questions about restrictions on access to information."Lucinda Barlow of Google Australia told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation the proposal raised the possibility of banning politically and socially controversial material and went beyond filters used in Germany, Canada and Italy. Other critics say the filtering would put Australia in the same censorship league as China.Yahoo said the filter would block many sites with controversial content such as euthanasia discussion forums and gay and lesbian forums that discuss sexual experiences. Yet it would not block peer-to-peer file-sharing, nor prevent predators approaching children in chat programs or social networking sites.Conroy said his department would take the comments from Google and Yahoo into consideration before sending a proposal to parliament later this year.The US State Department sided with Google in its row with China over censorship when in January the search engine company complained that its systems had been hacked into in what it implied was an attack all but government-sanctioned by China. Last week Google moved its search systems to the Chinese island dependency of Hong Kong. The communist government responded by blocking searches from the mainland for forbidden topics such as the pro-democracy movement.David Vaile of the Cyberspace Law and Policy Center at the University of New South Wales said China and Australia had markedly different approaches to restricting the Internet."China's filter is explicitly about discouraging access to and discussion of certain clearly political topics," he said, while Australia's filter would focus on specifically restricted material.While some critics of Australia's filter have said it puts the nation in the same censorship league as China, Vaile pointed out that the freedom-of-speech argument used by American companies follows a legal tradition that other countries do not necessarily share.Yahoo and Google are accustomed to the protections of the First Amendment of the US constitution,which guarantees freedom of speech and elevates it to a very high legal status, Vaile said."In Australia there is no equivalent,"  he said. "There is no law that says you've got free speech. Having a lack of any legal protection for free speech for any effective restraint on [filters] is something that's worrying."
This is an unedited version ofmy articlein today's Media section. Just thought I'd put it on Gamesblog as we've not had time to consider last week's budget on here...Five days on and it's likely the British videogame industry is still celebrating its surprising inclusion in Alistair Darling's final budget before the general election. After months of persistent lobbying by the industry's trade bodyTiga, the government has agreed to work out a range of tax breaks for UK games companies. Dr Richard Wilson, CEO of Tiga, called the decision inspired: "We predict over the next five years tax relief should result in the creation of 3,500 graduate level jobs, another £457 million pounds of investment into the sector, and £415m in tax receipts for the treasury. We're confident that this measure will more than pay for itself."But is there more to this than economics? Does the government's shift in stance symbolise a fundamental change in the perception of videogames, away from a demonised social scourge and toward a vital cultural force?Certainly, videogames are much more visible – in both a physical and cultural sense - than they were even five years ago. "Nintendo has helped to make games socially acceptable," reminds Ian Livingstone, life president of Eidos, the UK games publisher now owned by Japanese gaming giant, Square Enix. "They brought the Wii into the living room whereas historically games consoles have been in bedrooms. Now grandparents can play with their grandchildren, girls can play, boys can play. People are thinking, hang on, maybe this is a good thing after all."Add in party games like Rockband, quiz games like Buzz, and of course the whole brain training phenomenon, and this over-riding message, that games are for everyone, must have been obvious to even Westminster's most diehard luddites. (Though if the government needed stats to convince itself, there are plenty available. One example: according to the 2009 UK National Gamers Survey, carried out by market research firm TNS Technology, 73% of the British public play games regularly, including two-fifths of the over-50s.) Later this year both Sony and Microsoft will launch motion control systems designed to compete directly with Wii. For the last five years those two manufacturers have spent hundreds of millions chasing the hardcore gaming fraternity – now they're coming after everyone else, because all of a sudden, everyone else is interested.Tied into this is the inexorable rise of social network games. It's now estimated that around 200 million people worldwide play titles like FarmVille and Pet Society on Facebook every month, a figure larger than the installed user base of every dedicated games console put together. What's interesting is the way these games seamlessly assimilate into peoples' lives, allowing users to swap in-game objects, share game creations and talk about their experience – all within the familiar Facebook framework."In terms of game design it's a completely different mindset," says Kristian Segerstrale, CEO of British-based social gaming giant,Playfish. "Instead of trying to draw the person into the game, via puzzles and narrative, we're trying to draw the person out of the game, to get the player to think 'wouldn't this be more fun with friends'. We consider a game successful when people talk about it and message each other about it outside of the game, as much as possible." Of course, this is just a neat viral marketing model, but it quietly introduces games into the daily routines of their users – many of whom don't even realise they're gamers.There is also a continued blurring of the lines between games and other entertainment media, which is adding to the gaming's cultural validity. "With devices like Natal, we're really talking about a converged interactive media industry," says Jon Kingsbury who runs the Creative Economy Innovation Programme atNESTA. "There's an increasing interplay between gaming, online, TV and films – it's all coming together." Several of the major Hollywood movie studios including Warner Bros and Disney have their own game development and publishing arms, while the rest will at least use online and social games to market forthcoming cinema releases. Last year, Warner Bros commissioned a groundbreaking Facebook detective game entitled 221b to publicise its Sherlock Holmes movie – players could team up to solve a series of murders which linked in with the plot of the film – there was even a Twitter feed from Holmes' housekeeper, Mrs. Hudson.Meanwhile, Channel 4 has theE4 Gamesportal, and its cross-platform team commissions simple web-based games to accompany series' like cult superhero comedy, Misfits. Channel Four Education has an annual budget of £6m, much of which goes on games like web-based interactive dramasBow Street Runnerand the recentSmokescreen. The latter, all about personal privacy and identity on social networking sites, has just one the Best Game award at the trendy SXSW festival in Austin, Texas. The BBC too, announced plans in January to start developing games based around its key brands, bringing in former Yahoo and Electronic Arts executive Robert Nashak as EVP of Digital Entertainment, to oversee BBC Worldwide's gaming strategy.Videogames are drawing more interest from the country's major arts institutions, too. Earlier this month the Tate Britain held a dedicated videogame event featuring talks by industry insiders, a selection of current games to play and an interactive media art project orchestrated by game/art crossover pioneers, Blast Theory.BAFTAnow runs regular videogame-related networking evenings and special events often featuring leading game developers talking about their works. You can catchthe next on April 12when Charles Cecil of Revolution Software and Gareth Edmonson of Reflections (the Driver series) will be among the experts discussing collaborations between the TV, movie and games industries.There have also been several major videogame installations at galleries and museums around the country. Earlier this year, Liverpool'sFACTgallery ran a hugely successful exhibition entitled Space Invaders featuring artists and art works inspired by videogame aesthetics. "FACT are interested in computer games because of their massive creative potential," says curator Heather Corcoran. "We look at all types of creative technologies here - from social media to film and video - and feel computer games are naturally included in that remit. Clear evidence of that is the sheer number of artists who are using the medium to make artwork. Over the past ten or fifteen years there has been an explosion of artists who are either making their own games, 'hacking' existing games or making work about game culture. Its to the point now where massively well-known artists like Bill Viola are making computer games as their artwork. So, we wanted to collect some of these artists together, alongside particularly creative or interesting games from the commercial industry."Bradford'sNational Media Museumhas just opened its ownGame Lounge, a brightly coloured meeting area, filled with retro arcade cabinets and furniture shaped like Tetris blocks. The museum also includes game graphics as part of its annual Animation festival. "You just can't ignore videogames – they're such a massive part of our culture, and we needed to reflect this within our collection" enthuses Tom Woolley, the Curator of New Media, "one of the first things I did when I started here was to make sure we were collecting videogames. So I set up theNational Videogame Archivewith Nottingham Trent University to record this culture and heritage and make sure that we're preserving important games to museum standards – it's something we can't afford to let slip away".But really, the key concept here is pervasiveness. A growing trend in digital design at the moment is gamification – the addition of ludic elements to just about every form of communication. These days, if a charity or NGO really wants to engage people with its cause, it commissions a game. Two weeks ago, for example, the World Bank launched a multiplayer challenge entitledEvokein which gamers compete to solve key world crises such as disease, conflict and climate change. It's designed byJane McGonigal, co-creator of famed Xbox promo I Love Bees, and a pioneer in the field of alternative reality games.We're also seeing game elements creep into other areas such as GPS applications. Sites likeFoursquareandGowallaare essentially social location services which let you tag cool bars and hotels you've visited and then share their whereabouts with friends – except you get points for finding new places, and there's an online high score table. "The next big step will be brands using location-based services to affect consumer behaviour," says Matt Muir a Digital Consultant at communications agency, Hill &amp; Knowlton. "Applications like Foursquare and Gowalla may be niche now, but the principles behind them - 'check in' at a location, get points, win prizes - are something that I think we will see more of over the coming years."The Pru Health Vitality programme already does something similar, but imagine the Department of Health encouraging people to keep fit and well by rewarding them with points every time they go to the doctor, the dentist, the gym, etc...and those points being redeemable with prizes. Think about how tourist attractions could encourage multiple visits by granting a 'Mayorship' to their most frequent repeat visitor - with the Mayor getting benefits and discounts, etc. These services could potentially harness people's competitive nature to powerful effect."This is why videogames can no longer be ostracized from the cultural agenda – because in a lot of ways there are an intrinsic part of that agenda. It's also why the tax initiatives couldn't have come at a better time for British game companies. The UK industry has suffered a damaging brain drain over the last five years as some of its most creative staff have been tempted abroad. The country still produces successful and innovative game brands – think Grand Theft Auto, LittleBigPlanet, Singstar, Colin McRae Dirt – but to compete in this ever evolving marketplace, to create new intellectual property, to navigate emerging genres and marketplaces, the industry needs the sort of external financial investment that usually comes in the wake of tax breaks.With the budget announcement then, it seems the message has finally broken through. "One of the most important things was being able to show how cutting edge and how critical the videogames industry is as a sector," says Richard Wilson. "It's an important part of how the UK economy should be characterised and promoted in the future… We've been arguing this non-stop, possibly to the point that we bored the government into it!"Footnote: what is cultural Britishness?To apply for tax credits under the terms of the budget, game companies will need to pass a British cultural test – a condition that has caused some hilarity among gamers and industry insiders. The day after the budget announcement a #culturallybritishtaxbreakgames hash tag appeared on Twitter, with users suggesting British takes on classic games. Army of Two became Dad's Army of Two, Pac-Man became Paxman – and so on for many hours.Sadly, it's not quite as quaint as that. "The way we've proposed the test gives a huge amount of latitude to game developers," explains Tiga CEO Richard Wilson. "In order to pass our British cultural test you'll need to get points in respect of whether you have a narrative in your game, whether your game reflects British cultural heritage – for example, being based in the UK or on a British book or film. You'll also get points for your lead members of staff being based in the UK. It's going to be pretty flexible." Alice Taylor the commissioning Editor for Channel 4's education games adds, "I think the culturally British thing is good. It doesn't necessarily have to mean tea and bowler hats, but it just means that, yeah, there are more options than being an outsourcing house for the Americans and Japanese. To think about something that is tonally British, and what that means these days – it would be great to explore that."
