One of the mysteries of the iPhone -- how come there are so many mind-numbingly stupid applications? -- has been solved by Greystripe, an ad network. It turns out that the average time users spend playing with a free app is 9.6 minutes.The Wall Street Journal storyalso says:So-called "tailgate" ads, which are short flash videos or games users interact with before an app launches, are keeping people's attention for about 22 seconds — a positive development in the fledgling mobile ad space.You certainly don't get 10 minutes of amusement from commercial TV for each 22 seconds of advertising, though not much commercial TV sinks to the level of beer farts. Less of a good deal if you watch the same 22 seconds over and over, of course.
This afternoon in Boston, the Berkman Center at Harvard put on a live online demonstration ofWolfram Alpha, theforthcoming "knowledge engine"with a name better suited to a preening science fiction supervillain.Over the course of nearly two hours (much of which I could hear but not see from my perch in San Francisco) British scientist Stephen Wolfram showed off the system, described what was happening and answered questions on the project.It appeared that he stayed pretty much on a script of the sorts of data that he put into the search engine - this was not a fully open demo by any stretch of the imagination - although on a couple of occasions he did use search queries from the audience, but they were not generally successful.Earlier this week ReadWriteWebposted details of an intimate demo they were given, which has a lot of useful detail and is definitely worth reading if you are interested. But here are some bullet points on what we found out today:&bull; Itisa web search engine, but it's a search engine that isonthe web, not an engine that searches the web. It's essentially a front end to a enormous, interlinked database of verified - usually academic - information. Putting in terms throws back charts, graphs and other answers around the subject you're quizzing it about. (no surprise thatGoogle's decided that now is a good time to show off its new charts display)&bull; There's a lot of data drawn from the hard sciences, engineering and so on. There's a lot fromMathematica, the computational software Wolfram also makes. Not so much input from pop culture or the day to day world of fleeting information and consumption. To get an idea of what the system knows, Wolfram claims that "probably 90% of the shelves in a reference library we can say we've got a reasonable start on".&bull; It's a bit like a semantic web application, but the ontologies and structures are peculiar. "If the semantic web had been a 100%, overwhelming thing in the world, our job would have been a lot easier," he said, adding that at some point he hopes to "expose some of our data depository mechanism" to the public.&bull; The business model is fairly familiar. There will be a free, online front end that can be accessed by anyone. The site will have messages from what Wolfram called "corporate sponsors" (in other words, display adverts) and these will be supplemented in the future by "vendor-provided information" (targeted adverts). There will also be a paid-for, pro version for people who want to use the system to interrogate their own data.&bull; It's not really doing any natural language processing - that is, in Wolfram's words, the engine actually gets rid of "pure linguistic fluffery" and really just understands keywords and operators. He expects people to quickly stop using natural language and start using the relevant jargon.The Q&amp;A session focused on a series of very similar questions - how do you judge the veracity of sources? How fresh are they? What happens if Wolfram Alpha doesn't know the answer? Can people input their own data? What about proprietary information?These were all answered at length, despite being fairly straightforward: in general, for non-paying users, the system's owners find and curate data, which they give weight according to their own judgment. If the system doesn't know the answer to something, it reverts to a more traditional web search engine system where it points you towards places that might have the information you're looking for.I'm left relatively impressed, and can see myself using it a fair bit for fact-checking purposes or various calculations. But I want to see more: is this a useful tool for ordinary people, or a souped-up scientific calculator? I've asked a couple of times now for access to the beta, but they appear to be dribbling it out in seemingly random ways.Have you got access to it? Or did you seen the webcast and form an opinion?
Just in case you missed this today, Capcom has finally confirmed that it will be bringing classic 2D beat-'em-up Marvel vs Capcom 2 to XBLA and PSN this summer. The release will be proceeded by a PSN-only demo, out later this week in the US and at some point soon in Europe.According tothe announcement on Capcom's blog, the new version will be based on the superior Dreamcast code, rather than the later PS2 or Xbox iterations: "there are a few niggling issues in them that have caused the competitive community to continue using the Dreamcast version of the game," said Capcom. The game will also employ similar online features as Super Street Fighter 2 Turbo HD Remix, plus HD upscaling options.The Marvel vs Capcom series was famed for its refined tag team mechanic, eye-popping special effects and cool "Aerial Rave" combos. MvC 2 was arguably the finest title in a glorious family tree that kicked off with Saturn classic X-Men: Children of the Atom. I'm very much looking forward to it.Next stop - SNK vs Capcom? Surely?
Forget Halo 4 or Gears of War 3 - the most exciting new Xbox game is1 vs 100, the, er, massively multiplayer quiz game due out this summer. The game will feature real hosts and attempt to create a TV gameshow-style experience on the 360. Microsoft have announced that access to the events will be free for Xbox Live Gold members (which costs around 40 UKP a year) and will give players the chance to win "real" prizes. No news on these yet or on timings or how you actually enter but more info should be revealed in the run up to E3.  So why I am excited by this?Clearly this is an attempt to capture the broad mainstream market that has been put off by the 360's hardcore image. Microsoft have tried this before – Lips and SceneIt? were shameless facsimiles of Playstation mega brands Singstar and Buzz.  But 1 vs 100 feels uniquely suited to the 360, which still has the best online service on a console. You couldn't see 1vs100 working on PS3 or Wii.Of course potential is one thing. Actually sitting down and playing an online quiz with 100 other people is entirely another. You can imagine the competitive streak of many Xbox gamers will be on full show here and it may not be the "casual" experience that Microsoft hopes it will be. But hey, it makes a change from grey and brown first person shooters right?1 vs 100 then? Excited by the potential of something different? Or think it could be another half-baked attempt to make the 360 more mainstream friendly?
The One Laptop Per Child project looks to have got a much-needed boost with the news thatIndia has placed an order for 250,000 of its machines- in a reversal of the government's high-profile decision to reject the scheme back in 2006.That previous arrangement got headlines when thecountry's education minister announcedthat the programme was "pedagogically suspect", but it seems that times have changed.IDG News reports confirmation from Satish Jha, the president of One Laptop Per Child India, that "two government organisations and one private sector entity placed the laptop orders", and that 1,500 schools would begin receiving machines in June.Is that feasible? After all, previous attempts to deliver large volumes of computers wereplagued by delays. No official word yet from OLPC themselves.Regardless, it's a fillip for the project, which has had a tough couple of years and has faced a regular barrage of criticism over the validity of its mission. Technology boss Mary Lou Jepsen left to start a spin-off company,Pixel Qi, and software head Walter Bender departed to formSugarLabsafter an ideological split over the machine's operating system. Earlier this year the projectlaid off 32 members of staff, although there are still five high level positions being advertised on theLaptop.org website.Related:&bull; Jacktalked to OLPC chief Nicholas Negropontein January&bull; Here's avideo interview I did with Negropontelast year
This week, Aleks Krotoski presents, and is joined by Charles Arthur in the studio, andBobbie Johnson in his pants.We hear from Baroness Susan Greenfield who clears up comments that were recently attributed to her on the subject of social networking and gaming, and how they could potentially rot your brain.David Hamilton, Managing Director of Dundee-based games developersDigital Goldfishis on the line to discuss how to become a top 10 iPhone app store developer.  In a matter of days his application rocketed up the chart, so we get some tips, and Twitter followers who gotour Monday afternoon tweetget their questions answered.There's also the end of year financial results for the big tech companies - Microsoft, Apple, Amazon and eBay, and a quick chat about theswine flu mashups that have already hit the web.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Remember Mark Papermaster, the IBM executive whose defection to Applesparked litigationbetween the two companies? He finallystarted working for Cupertinolast Friday, according to CNet. At the same time,Bob Drebin has also joined Apple, more than a year a year after leaving his job at AMD - and Amazonhas bought Lexcycle, the company behind the iPhone ebook application Stanza.&bull; Anyone worried about thedisappearance of GeoCitiesmay have a new hero inJason Scott, who - along with theArchive Team- is trying to download as much of the information on the service before it's closed later this year. So far? 200,000 sites and counting.&bull; And anyone with a little Twitter schadenfreude will appreciateTweeting Too Hard- a repository for some of the most self-important messages out there. Lots of gems on display, but currently top is Leto75'sway-too-much-information message from last month(I'll leave its contents a surprise).You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Over the last few days, Forbes has been dribbling out information gathered from avery intriguing documentthat it obtained through a Freedom of Information application: the 2008 deposition hearing of one Steven P Jobs, the chief executive of Apple.The deposition comes from the government's case against former Apple general counsel Nancy Heinen, who was accused of fraud in thescandal over the company's backdating of share options.While the case itself is over - Heinen settled with the Securities and Exchange Commission for $2.2m, and other Apple executives (including Jobs) made a $14m settlement - this is still a remarkable document for a number of reasons.There's no doubt that there is something very, very interesting about getting notoriously secretive technology executives speaking  on the record about their business - after all, who can forgetthe video of the deposition of Bill Gates, where the Microsoft co-founder gets argumentative, defensive and rocks back and forth in his chair.Of course, the 119 page text of Jobs deposition doesn't give us the same insight as those videos of Gates - but it has plenty to tell us about Jobs himself, and about the way Apple works.For starters, there is the ever-present subject of health. Early in the deposition, the questioner points out that Jobs "you mentioned that you're not feeling well this morning" and asks whether he is on any medication that could affect his answers. Jobs responds by saying that he wants mitigation for looking uncomfortable: "If you just play them this part, where I'm feeling really bad or I look really bad or I look grimaced or anything. It's not because of the deposition, it's just because." (p10)It's also interesting to see that Jobs - who has a notoriously spiky attitude towards things past -  is very fuzzy on the early days of Apple.  He's vague on things like the year that Apple's stock market flotation took place, or which year he left Apple and went on to found NeXT and Pixar. While, admittedly, those events took place more than 20 years ago, it's still surprising that can't he pinpoint crucial moments such as when he became a multimillionaire.When it comes down to the way the company runs, and the way he sees it, there are some fine-grained details. Jobs veers between a seemingly-intimate knowledge of the way the company's stock fluctuated and a hands-off attitude that essentially put some of the decision-making in other people's hands. It's something revealing about the way, and who he considered to be important.It was Jobs' proposal to issue 4.8m stock options to senior executives as "golden handcuffs" - incentives to stay at Apple and not get poached by rival companies.His "ultra key" team was just four people: Tim Cook - then executive vice president of operations, now COO and the man standing in for Jobs at the moment; Fred Anderson, the chief financial officer, who resigned from Apple after the scandal and is now MD of Elevation partners; Jon Rubinstein, the head of hardware (now chairman of Palm, which is largely owned by Elevation); and Avie Tevanian, then head of software, who left in 2006.Around page 89 he also goes into some details about why he thoughthedeserved extra financial compensation from the board (something Forbes characterises as a"nobody loves me"speech)."Everybody likes to be recognized by their peers, and the closest that I've got, or any CEO has, is their Board of Directors. And as we've seen in the discussions in the past hour, I spent a lot of time trying to take care of people at Apple and to, you know, surprise and delight them with what a career at Apple could be - could mean to them and their families. And I felt that the board wasn't really doing the same with me.""So I was hurt, I suppose would be most accurate word, and, you know, the board had given me some options, but they were all underwater... I had been working, you know, I don't know, four years, five years of my life and not seeing my family very much and stuff, and I just felt like there is nobody looking out for me here, you know."There's no sense that he doesn't take the deposition seriously, but there is a lot that he doesn't recall. Equally, there's a feeling of entitlement in his demands for recognition.(At the time of the stock controversy, Apple co-founderSteve Wozniak told methat he wanted some corrective action because "basically leave other shareholders treated at a disadvantage" and that "Apple's going to have to correct that for what they've done")If you want to take a look at the source documents and see what you can glean from them, then download thefull deposition here. I'm interested to see if you read it the same way as I do.
In the sprawling mega-burbs of Silicon Valley, obsession with the future is a pre-requisite for residence. That's why Carol Bartz, the straight-talking new honcho at Yahoo, surely deserves a prize for making everyone look backwards for a moment.Last week's blast-from-the-past announcement - that she wasbringing the axe down on GeoCities- brought wry smiles to anyone who was online a decade ago, and drew somenostalgiclamentsfrom around the web.Who can blame people for looking back fondly? After all, the web of 1999 was a very different place: it was a lot smaller, a lot slower and a lot more civil than today's online world (most of the time, at least).Underneath all those elegies for GeoCities, though, was the fact that the service - once a top five web property - became an irrelevance a long time ago; superseded first by blogging services and then by social networking. Worth $3.5bn when Yahoo bought it 10 years ago, the service has now become an object lesson in how to make yourself obsolete by failing to keep up with the times.Somebody who will be thinking hard about that dilemma this week is Owen Van Natta, the former Facebook executive whotook over the top job at MySpace on Friday, in a strange little putsch that saw co-founder Chris DeWolfe moved out.MySpace is clearly the cultural inheritor of GeoCities - all garish homepages and emotional teenagers - but last week's reshuffle is, in some way, an attempt to change things by bringing different personalities into the mix.And they are certainly different. When I met Van Natta for the first time in London a while ago (for a long conversation about privacy issues while he was still at Facebook) he struck me as a typical MBA grafter; ambitious, restrained and even a little nervous. DeWolfe, on the other hand, is a charmer whose personal style is languid and comfortable (you'd probably be comfortable if you sold your company for $580m, too).The difference in styles will probably please Rupert Murdoch, but it's not just hard work and ambition that Van Natta needs.The one thing MySpace requires is also the most elusive: momentum.People talk a lot about momentum in various walks of life. In sport, you get "in the zone" - when Manchester United overturn a two-goal deficit at halftimeto pummel Tottenham 5-2, for example. In politics, the big mo appears when an election campaign - like Barack Obama's - suddenly swells and appears unstoppable.Momentum means a lot in technology, too. No matter how much you've got it today, you need to make sure that you have it tomorrow – and the way to do that is by being bigger, better and smarter than your rivals. You do that by innovating, being a step ahead of your rivals and by using your size to amplify your dominance (just ask Google, which has done this better than anybody in recent years).A couple of years ago, MySpace was on the brink of all that. It had mindshare, and it had momentum (or at least the chance to achieve it). Now it's been overtaken by Facebook, not only in terms of how many users it has, but also in terms of innovation. Yes, there's money coming in - but there's little thrust to propel things forward.Fixing that will be a difficult job, true. It might even be impossible. But until it happens, the only thing that Van Natta is going to see when he gazes into MySpace's future will be GeoCities staring straight back.
FBI agents have arrested a man in Oklahoma after he allegedly made threatening statements on the social networking website Twitter.Daniel Knight Hayden, 52, was taken into custody after using the microblogging service to send a series of messages suggesting that he was planning a "war" against local government officials and police.In a string of confusing and often incoherent statements sent over a four-day period earlier this month, Hayden – using the nickname Citizen Quasar – said he was prepared to die at a planned anti-tax protest in Oklahoma City.His messages referred repeatedly to acts of violence and also mentioned the 1995 Oklahoma bombing, which killed 168 people."The WAR wWIL start on the stepes of the Oklahoma State Capitol. I will cast the first sotne. In the meantime, I await the police," he said in one message. "START THE KILLING NOW!" he said in another.Suggesting that "maybe it's time to die", he also said that if he was approached by police, he would "cut their heads off ... and throw them on the State Capitol steps".In his penultimate message, Hayden stated that he was "Locked AND loaded for the Oklahoma State Capitol. Let's see what happens."Shortly afterwards, the messages ceased as FBI agents arrested him on suspicion of making threats to kill or injure.According to local media reports, Hayden was arraigned and subsequently released into the custody of a halfway house in Oklahoma City.Local officials are highly sensitive to threats of violence, after the bombing of the city's Alfred P Murrah building in April 1995. That attack, the deadliest incident of homegrown terrorism in American history, killed 168 people – including 19 children at a daycare centre.The bomber, Timothy McVeigh, later said the attack was intended to avenge the deaths of anti-government protesters at the hands of federal officials in Waco and Ruby Ridge.In his messages and on his MySpace site, Hayden linked to a group called Oath Keepers – a loose organisation of anti-government activists who describe themselves as defenders of the US constitution. The group's first declaration is to resist any attempt to disarm them.
The Boston Globe's website is probably not top of your list, unless you live there,  but lots of us now visit one of its blogs two or three times a week. We go toThe Big Picturebecause it's one of the best places to see sets of pictures online.In the days of dial-up internet connections, websites usually kept pictures small to avoid long downloads. Then when advertising became important, some sites turned their photo galleries into "ad farms", making users click 20 times to see 20 pictures along with 20 or more advertisements.Boston.com's Alan Taylor cast both ideas aside when he launched The Big Picture on 1 June 2008. Many users had screens that were 1,024 pixels wide, so even allowing for scroll bars, he reckoned they could view pictures 990 pixels wide. And he knew that people with broadband connections would have no problems if he put six to 18 images on a page, so that no extra clicks were needed to see all the pics.The Big Picture was an instant hit, and similar sites started to appear. However, Taylor still had two advantages over some rivals. First, thanks to the Globe, he had free access to streams of wonderful photos from AP, Reuters, Getty and other services. Second, he has a talent for assembling picture sets.TBP's sets are often based on topical events. Recent examples include Earth Hour 2009, Scenes from the recession, and Pirates of Somalia. Taylor also puts together terrific sets showing everyday life in various countries.This isn't a new idea, of course, not even to Taylor. In an interview withWaxy.org, he said: "my parents used to always have Life and National Geographic magazines around the house, I fell in love with the visual storytelling way back then." TBP has much the same spirit, without the texts: Taylor is a web programmer andblogger, not a travelling reporter. He provides background by linking to stories on the web.TBP's picture sets have grown bigger and the site now attracts lots of reader comments. Scenes from 30,000 metres, for example, got 311 comments while Earth Hour 2009 attracted 2,435. Taylor now numbers the pictures, which makes them easier to discuss.Last month, Taylor also launched a metablog of the blog:The Big Picture Notes. This enables him to publish follow-up photos and commentaries, and to cover administrative matters that would get in the way of the pictures on TBP itself.In the end, TBP has one huge virtue, and one major flaw. The virtue: it shows off great pictures that would not otherwise be seen because they're not quite newsworthy enough, or because print publications just don't have room for them.The flaw is that all the pictures are horizontal, and it's a safe bet that a least a few great verticals are going to waste.But any newspaper or magazine site that wants to come up with a better formula than TBP is welcome to have a go.
Asreportedon Japanese news site, Asahi, Konami has apparently pulled the plug on Iraq-based shooter, Six Days in Fallujah, following intense public criticism. The third-person simulation put players in control of a US Marine, taking part in the historic battle of Fallujah. Developer Atomic Games claimed that it would be producing an authentic experience;a Wall Street Journal featuresuggested that dozens of marines provided their diaries and journals to the dev team.But within days of Konami's announcement about the new project, the media were stirring up opposition on both sides of the Atlantic. The Daily Mailquotedthe father of a lance corporal killed in Iraq, calling the game 'crass and insensitive', while a support group for families of soldiers killed in Iraq and Afghanistan issueda press release condemning the project.But there has also be support for the game, obviouslywithin the industry, but also from the military. US internet TV site G4TV,interviewedseveral veterans of the conflict, with former Army Sgt. Kevin Smith stating, "Let it be made, and hopefully it will bolster support for military veterans by giving civilians insight into what this war was actually like for them."If the game has indeed been canned, one question stands paramount amongst the many moral and ethical quandaries being positied: what did Konami expect?When commissioning a project based around a war that's not yet over, in which people are still dying, did the publisher believe that the game would be welcomed by the tabloid press, and by families of those who have lost loved ones? Could a global corporation have been so massively naive? Why even greenlight the game in the first place?It may well prove a pivotal decision in the developing remit of the videogame industry. Of course, the serious games sector has dealt with war and its implications for several years, mostly through free, overtly didactic titles likeDarfur is Dying. Meanwhile, mainstream shooters like Call of Duty Modern Combat and the risible 50 cent Blood on the Sand have toyed unmistakably with Middle Eastern politics, environments and situations, but have protected themselves by muddying the details, setting the action in the future, or in ficticious conflicts - but we all know what they were getting at.And then there are simulations likeAmerica's ArmyandKuma/War, the former attaining acceptability through its overt military connections, the latter through its low-key online presence and non-mainstream politicalisation of real world encounters.What all this says is, the treatment of war as a mainstream interactive 'entertainment' is complex and fraught. But does that mean it shouldn't happen? The argument that films and books can be based in Iraq, so why shouldn't games, is reductive and troublesome. It's unavoidable that the word 'videogame' suggests play, and to non-gamers, people shouldn't be playing with real wars - at least real wars currently still taking place. The moral conflict is in the interactivity - especially for those who have not grown up playing games.There's also a possibility - confirmed, perhaps, by the sudden about-turn - that Konami, and by implication the whole of the mainstream games industry, is not yet mature enough to deal with these issues. In a Shacknews report on Konami's Gamers Night preview event a few weeks ago, writer Nick Breckon said of the game, "considering the extensive marketing on the point of realism, I certainly didn't expect to see soldiers running out into the middle of the street during a firefight, taking a half-dozen bullets in the chest, and then regenerating their health safely behind cover".Elsewhere, the Gamesindustry.biz article linked to above picked up on a comment by Konami's VP of marketing, Anthony Crouts: "We're not trying to make a social commentary. We're not pro-war. We're not trying to make people feel uncomfortable. We just want to bring a compelling entertainment experience. At the end of the day, it's just a game". It reminded me of comments coming out of Capcom at the time of the Resident Evil 5 race controversy - hey, it's just a game...That attitude won't get the industry anywhere. And while it's galling to see a game about modern conflict pulled in an age where Ross Kemp can make war documentaries, and where graphic novels like Palestine can tell us much more about that part of the world than a dozen episodes of Panorama, you have to question the thinking behind Six Days in Felluja. Because if this kind of project is going to work in the future, it has to be handled with foresight, certainty and bravery. It has to be right.
House of Divinein glamorous Milton Keynes tweeted to say that Lucia and Karol were working on Sunday while another message offered a "Twitter Discount". The operation has been exposed inThe Sunnewspaper, which trumpets: "A BROTHEL is touting its services via social networking site TWITTER."Since "adult services" have previously managed to use other communications systems -- postal services, telephones, shop windows, email, the web, advertisements in tabloid newspapers -- this shouldn't come as a huge surprise, but brothel stories are probably good for raising your circulation (fnar fnar).Whether Twitter is good for business is another matter; the@DivineMKaccount only has 72 followers at the time of writing, andsome of themdon't look like potential customers. Since any Twitter user can see who is following an account, this is hardly private. An email circular would provide a more useful and more confidential information network.Also, if anyone is not interested in a particular user, Twitter provides the option to block them.The Sun briefly conveyed its outrage with a quote: "Lib-Dem MP Julia Goldsworthy labelled the brothel's use of Twitter 'cynical and inappropriate'." However,@jgoldsworthy-- MP for Falmouth and Camborne, which is some way from Milton Keynes -- wasn't outraged enough to comment on her own Twitter account or, so far, her ownweb site. Nor has she taken up my invitation toDM me.
Theblistering angerthat erupted from the games industry after last month's Department of HealthChange 4 Lifeprint advertisement campaign, featuring a prone kid with a PlayStation-like controller and the word "Death" in all-caps, has cooled since the television campaign launched this weekend. Covered by Mark Sweeny inthe Media section of The Guardian, the ad promotes active videogames, like dance mat games, as part of a healthy lifestyle.From the article:"Active videogames, where kids need to jump up and down or dance about as part of the game, are a great way to get kids moving more," said Dawn Primarolo, the minister for public health."Little bits of activity like this, throughout the day can easily add up to the 60 active minutes kids need. But our survey shows that at the moment our kids just aren't getting up and about enough."The ad also features another prone kid playing a console game, which may anger some games supporters. But you know what? Too much static activity ofanysort is bad for you. Games aren't the exception, they're just an example. So chill out.The Department of Health spearheaded the campaign as a result of disturbing new statistics uncovered by the "How Are The Kids" survey, released in January and contributed to by over 260,000 individuals. According to their press release, "the survey ... found that 45 per cent of their kids watched TV or played non-active video games before school, and only 22 per cent did something active after their evening meal."
Lawyers who helped prosecute The Pirate Bay have become the latest targets in an internet backlash over the decision to jail the site's founders.In the latest in a string of online reprisals, a website belonging to the MAQS law firm – which acted on behalf of Hollywood studios during the trial – was taken down over the weekend after it came under siege."Our website is currently under attack and we have therefore decided to shut it down until the attack ceases," read a message on the website.There were no further details on the attacks, but it is known that angry users on internet forums – including the notorious 4Chan messageboard – have been coordinating assaults on groups involved in the prosecution.Last week the website of music industry body IFPI came under a denial of service attack, in which a target is flooded with so much online traffic that it collapses under the pressure. Similar attacks are often used by hackers to cause trouble, or by criminals who blackmail their victims with threats to harm their business.The attacks have continued since four men were found guilty of assisting copyright infringement two weeks ago, with each defendant sentenced to one year in jail and fined £800,000.MAQS – which has offices in Sweden, Denmark, Estonia and Poland – appears to have been targeted after one of its partners, Monique Wadsted, represented the Motion Picture Association of America during the three-week trial. In the past she has come under attack for her involvement in copyright cases, including anonymous threats to firebomb her house.Reaction to the attacks was mixed. On theTorrentFreak website, which hosts filesharing news, many users applauded the "cyber mob", while others voiced concerns that the attacks simply made protesters appear vindictive and childish."This is not the way to make a point about freedom of the internets," said one anonymous commenter. "This does not put 'us' in a good light," said another.The case remains far from over, however. The four defendants have already announced theirintention to appeal against the ruling, a process which could take as long as two years.Last week, their lawyers even said they could appeal for a mistrial, after it emerged that the judge who presided over the trial had apotential conflict of interest.Thomas Nordstrom, who oversaw the case, is also a board member of the Swedish Association for the Protection of Industrial Property (SFIR), a group which lobbies for the extension of patent law and copyrights.He denied that his link to the group was an undue influence on his decision, stating that "Every time I take a case, I evaluate if I consider myself having a conflict of interest. In this case I didn't find to have one."
Last weekwe asked foryour feedbackon the gamesblog in anticipation of a meeting we were supposed to have today. Sadly the meeting's been postponed for a couple of weeks. More on that meeting later, but in the meantime, here are the results of the survey (and our impressions):We had a bumper number of responses from readers; we broke Survey Monkey we had so many! So many thanks to everyone who got involved. For the record, we had over 150 responses, but only the first 100 were tallied.For the sake of simplicity, I will report the last question first:Which regular features do you want to see more of?By far, the thing you wanted to see more of was reviews. Over 3/4 of you would like more more more of these on the gamesblog, or would like to see the existing reviews from The Guardian's site integrated better into the blog.60% of you said you wanted to see more breaking news; 55% wanted more interviews and 54% said more Serious Games coverage. I sense that something got mis-translated here, unless more than half of you are interested in serious applications of games? By all means, do let us know if that's what you mean, but I suspect not.The Chatterbox Roundup was a big hit amongst the respondents too; sadly I don't see it in our future to provide more of them; one per week is enough.More than a third of you want more gamesblog newsbuckets, our weekly feature of gaming headlines from around the web that we think speak for themselves, but we want to bring to your attention in case you've not seen them. And more than a third also want more analysis of statistics. Based on the comments from readers about what we could do better, I think the operative word here is "analysis".Down at the other end, the Elevator Pitch interviews we run that feature indie game talent from the UK didn't do so well, and not many people want Vlogs of our grinning faces. Only 15 of you want more women in games features. This is all great feedback! If you've got anything to say about these results, please do comment below.A few noteworthy suggestions in addition to the options we offered: someone wanted stories from the production line, there was a call for Linux gaming news and a quite a few arms raised for more gamesblog production projects.Finally,what are we doing wellandwhat could we do better? Generally people like the depth and the breadth of coverage we offer, and think we offer a service that's unique from most games sites out there. You like our opinions and love how much we interact with the community. Chatterbox, our bin for OT conversations, was very divisive (more on this in the commentshere).You want more reviews, more mainstream coverage and more interviews. You really want the gamesblog to be integrated with the games section. There are also some other technological issues you've raised that we can't do anything about editorially.And here's what we think about this:AleksWe're really pleased you like the variety of coverage we have here, and that it stands out from the rest of the slew. We each have a different take on the industry, and this shifts and changes over time. The overall response was positive about the range of things we write about, from the mainstream titles to the 'quirky' and 'weird' games (your words, not mine), and there wasn't much consensus on things we shouldn't cover (no, not even mobile games). We'll try to continue to balance stuff for the casual and the hardcore gamers.As for reviews, I think we've explained about this here before: it's not really the remit of this blog to provide these, although Greg and Keith do a great job of trying. There are plenty of sites out there to get reviews, and by all means, please go there and read them! But please come back here too. We're on course to tie in other game coverage on The Guardian with the blog, from the reviews and other stories on the Games front to the weeklyGame Theorycolumns in the paper.As for the amount of content published, at the moment Greg, Keith and I are all pretty bogged down with other commitments - full-time jobs, study etc. We do try to post as often as we can, but sometimes it falls lower on the priority scale than it should. We implemented the newsbucket to quickly point out the other stories - often mainstream stories - that are going on around the web that we can't get to but think you might like. Perhaps a daily posting would be better than a weekly one?Once again, thank you for responding to the survey. It's excellent feedback from the community!GregGreat to get the feedback. Reviews is one of those issues that keeps coming up. As Aleks says there are numerous reviews sites around and we don't have the resources or remit to compete with those guys. Having said that I do agree it would make sense to tie in the reviews that appear in the paper more closely with the blog. When the game justifies it I will certainly try and add a longer review on the blog to go alongside the paper reviews I do. But I also think that initial impressions pieces are a good way to get a feel for a game too, especially when pre-release.A few of you also mentioned the stat-based blog posts and their effect on fans of different consoles. Sorry, but it's just too much fun to ignore these. Seriously though, we do try and add some analysis to these data-driven stories - it isn't just an excuse for a fanboy slanging match. Honest.&nbsp;Interviews? Yes, we could do with some more of those. Consider us on the case.KeithAleks and Greg have said it all really. It's good to see that there's an appreciation of our wide remit, from mainstream releases to indie titles and, yes, even mobile games (though there were a few voices of dissent...). I've got to try to make more time for reviews and will endeavour to provide these regularly from next month. I'm also looking into arranging more developer interviews, which a few of you have asked for.So that's what you've said. Thank you for your thoughts and time. We'll feedback on the editorial meeting when it happens next month.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Don't get me wrong. I still love a bit of World of Warcraft. Not as much as back in the day but I'm still keen on a bit of cathartic grinding and enjoyable exploration every few weeks. Butthe newsthat WoW could soon be playable on the iPhone has got me worried. Yes, the video could easily be a fake, but let's pretend you could actually play WoW (or any Massively Multiplayer Online game for that matter) on your iPhone.  Why would you want to? The controls and cramped screen mean the game would be a facsimile at best of the proper PC experience. Would, say, the serene atmosphere of Ashenvale be as beautifully memorable on the iPhone? And what about lag? You can forget going to the Auction House or on a raid when playing on the iPhone.But maybe I'm missing the point. For a bit of lunchtime grinding or crafting the iPhone app could work perfectly. What do you think then? Any WoW players here tempted by the (theoretical) iPhone version?
&bull; Facebook looks set to open itself up even further to developers, in an announcement due later today. AllFacebook says the changes could have "significant impact" on its rivals, while theWall Street Journal(paywall) says it's "the information that appears in the stream of updates on users' homepages and profiles".&bull; Qualcomm hasagreed to pay $891m to hi-tech rival Broadcomin order to end a long-running patent lawsuit between the two companies, reports CNet. The argument over patent licensing had led US judges to ban the import of phones containing Qualcomm chipsback in 2007.&bull; We'll finish with a handful of nice weekend reads for you to devour on Monday morning: theNew Yorker examines the growing use of neuroenhancement drugs, Edge magazine takes a long look at thebirth of the PlayStationand Newsweek tells the story of a family whose private tragedy has become very publicthanks to internet trolls.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Microsoft has finally revealed one of the "secret ingredients" in Windows 7, and it's Windows XP SP3. This only applies to the Windows 7 Professional, Enterprise, and Ultimate editions, and involves downloading the code from Microsoft's web site.XPM (for Mode) is based on Microsoft's Virtual PC and includes a free copy of XP SP3. It provides a bit more functionality than simply installing your own copy of XP (if you have one that legally allows that) in Virtual PC, VMware or VirtualBox. For example, on theWindows SuperSite, Rafael Rivera and Paul Thurrott say:XPM does not require you to run the virtual environment as a separate Windows desktop. Instead, as you install applications inside the virtual XP environment, they are published to the host (Windows 7) OS as well. (With shortcuts placed in the Start Menu.) That way, users can run Windows XP-based applications (like IE 6) alongside Windows 7 applications under a single desktop.XP apps appear under Virtual PC, as show in the photo above (bigger).Also, IT departments can "control XPM behavior via standard Microsoft administration and management technologies like Active Directory (AD) and Group Policy (GP)."XPM is a killer feature for companies, who usually get Enterprise or Ultimate versions, and may have been too poor, too lazy or just too stupid to make sure their in-house applications run under Vista -- or, if they've been unlucky, are using a program from a software house that either refuses to update or has gone bust.It will also be a big help even where companies don't need XPM. They'll be able to upgrade to the more secure and more capable Windows 7 with the confidence that they have a backwards-compatibility option if they run into an unforeseen snag.Unlike VMware Workstation, which does the same thing as XMP, it's free -- and you don't have to pay for two copies of Windows.The officialWindows Team Blogsays: "Windows XP Mode is specifically designed to help small businesses move to Windows 7." It therefore looks as though home users who want it will have to buy the Pro version of Windows 7, but home users are clearly not the target market. Microsoft wants them to upgrade or change any software that's incompatible with Windows 7, not keep running it.It remains to be seen how well XPM runs on netbooks that don't provide hardware assistance for virtualisation. But in any case, netbooks typically have too little processor power and not enough memory to make XPM attractive.Windows 7 Release Candidate (RC1) will be available for download by MSDN/TechNet subscribers and beta testers on April 30, and by members of the public on May 5.XP Mode will be available when the RTM (Release To Manufacturing) version.
The exciting new wayto carry a babyWhat would Andy Warhol doon the internet?On X Factor in Taiwanthey do folk New Order coversFilm-maker Michel Gondrysells his own toilet paperIt's not OKto Twitter through a movie. Unless it's Crank 2Pac-Man is on the loosein ParisCanadian Britney fanswant their money backDogs in the 1930swere so well attired
DSi shopNow that the dust has settled on its launch, apart from being able to distort photos of those you love to give them frightening rictuses, the biggest difference between the DSi and its most recent forebear, the DS Lite, is the online shop. Like Xbox Live, PlayStation Network and Wii Shop Channel, this is a place to download new games at price points equating to &pound;1.40, &pound;3.50 and &pound;5.60. The problem is that connecting to the internet - with its thinly-veiled reliance on IP addresses and security protocols - means the experience is littered with interruptions, meaningless error codes and repeated fruitless attempts to download the software you've asked for, delivering an experience painfully at odds with Nintendo's pick-up-and-play philosophy. Its current minimalist stock levels don't do much to elevate the joy, with less than half a dozen titles available at the time of writing, one of which is a web browser. Nintendo plans a weekly release of new games to the DSi shop.
The government is considering capping the amount of radio spectrum owned by Britain's mobile phone companies as it tries to thrash out a deal that will fulfil Lord Carter's ambition of broadband for all.The plan, put together by the communications minister's lieutenant Kip Meek, would allow Vodafone and O2 to hold on to the part of the airwaves they were granted in the 1980s, which their rivals had hoped they would be forced to share.But it would bar them from picking up some of the spectrum that will become free when the analogue TV signal is switched off in 2012 unless they sell some other holdings.The deal is essentially a stop gap measure designed to meet the government's ambition of getting broadband speeds of about 2Mb per second to the estimated 1.5 million households that are currently beyond reach.Meek is believed to have concluded that persuading the two companies to share their spectrum - which is perfect for rural broadband - cannot be done by Carter's deadline of 30 April. But new spectrum that could be used by everyone in the industry for rural broadband - which will come free after the analogue TV signal is switched - will not be available until 2012.The deal would include extending the obligation upon the five UK networks to push 3G networks to well over 90% of the UK population. In return, the government would extend those licences, bought in 2000 for &pound;22.5bn, in perpetuity.Lord Carter believes that mobile broadband will play a crucial role in bringing fast internet access to rural areas because upgrading the fixed line network is far too expensive. Coverage in remote areas of the country will be plugged by satellite broadband.The deal may still fail as T-Mobile and Orange are hoping that Vodafone and O2 will be forced to give up some of their holdings at 900MHz. Lord Carter has made it plain that if a deal cannot be reached by the industry, one will be imposed by regulator Ofcom. The regulator has proposed removing roughly enough spectrum from O2 and Vodafone for one extra operator.In the budget, Darling said government money would be available for universal broadband. This cash will include any surplus from the fund used by the BBC to help people switch to digital TV.That money, however, will not flow until 2012 which is why doing a deal now with the mobile phone companies to plug the gaps in coverage is vital.
How can you not love a blog that gets furious about some pudgy pink cartoon bears for a) squirting a butterfly with some foam and b) having the audacity to call a fellow character "Peppy-Mint"? The above crimes are examined in an entry labeled The Yum Yums Are Dicks, along with a video that examines the moral issues of the "butterfly incident" and explains that the Yum Yums are "under the incorrect assumption that as long as you act cute, your actions won't be perceived as the most dickish things in the entire universe." Vintage clips include Tubby The Tuba, Rocket Robin Hood and that classic cartoon skirmish between Superman and Nick O'Teen, and there are postings on the difficulty of animating teeth and a video of a talking breast that will send you into a "depressing shame spiral".
Japanese role-playing games (or JRPGs to people who play them) have a set of conventions they stick to with a near-religious fervour. As a JRPG subset, Final Fantasy titles have an even more specific set of well-worn details. In Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Echoes Of Time, what you get when you add those two together is an adventure that clings to absolutely every cliche of the genre, from starting the game as an innocent child to the pointless conversations you have to engage in to find the specific one that unlocks the next bit of plot. The big difference here is that you can play with up to three friends in real time, taking on the game's quests and boss fights as a tiny adventurous team. To be fair, even without that the game's elements hang together competently, if a bit lifelessly, but this is a game designed wholly with multiplayer in mind.• Square Enix, &pound;29.99-&pound;34.99
The Godfather Part II, with its sombre atmosphere, lowering characters and rich emotional complexity, was always going to be a tricky film to capture in a videogame. Perhaps inevitably nobody bothered to try, instead using the music, names and near-likenesses of the film's characters and the fact that they're gangsters to pump it up into a relentless hail of beatings, shootings, car chases and crime syndicate management. As presumably in real life, the violence and intimidation are only in pursuit of business, to the extent that one menu screen is purely devoted to your profit and loss account. Taking place in New York, Florida and Cuba, each location needs to have its local crime families taken out by killing their foot soldiers and taking over their rackets. The result feels routine, mechanical and sorely lacking Grand Theft Auto's wit and finesse.• Electronic Arts, &pound;29.99-&pound;49.99
The most impressive thing about Hugh Jackman's Wolverine is clearly his magnificent hairy mutton chops. Alas, they don't figure in his impressive list of mutant superpowers, the most celebrated of which - and useful for slicing both carrots and people - are his retractable claws. Indeed the best bit of the trailer is when his half-brother Sabretooth sees them and camply remarks "ooh, shiny". The sound of metallic slashing features throughout this slick movie site where you can activate (or de-activate) the power of your favourite X character and transform any page from downloads to Facebook app to trailers to the highly annoying game, Time Warrior.
There seem to be two strategies when it comes to the presentation of small economy cars. One is to make a virtue of the vehicle's modesty, in which the absence of style demonstrates its cost-cutting common sense. There are any number of models that fit this bill, although right now I can't think of any names because they're just too dull to remember. That's not a criticism, I hasten to add, but a compliment, for the true mark of functionality is its instant forgettability.The other approach is to attempt to disguise the car's rudimentary nature by adding a few well-placed quirky details. In other words, don't worry that it drives like a hairdryer on wheels, just look at the zany wing-mirrors shaped like testicles. Forget that there's no leg room or arm room or boot room and instead savour the lime green gear stick.Into this latter category we must place the Peugeot 107, not because of the alarm clock rev-counter on the dashboard, but because of the Philippe Starck toaster. At least that was my initial diagnosis of the white-faced instrument with slide dials just beneath the CD player.A survivor of the Paramount hotel in Manhattan, I've seen what the French design genius can do with impossibly compact spaces. And while the Peugeot 107 is not quite as small as one of the Paramount's rooms, it calls for imaginative use of space or, rather, the lack thereof.Yet on closer inspection, following a number of failed attempts to insert a large slice of granary bread, I realised that the toaster was, in fact, the heating system and, as far as I know, it's not even a Starck heating system. Still, it's a distractingly Gallic piece of design that not only transcends its surroundings but also seems to work perfectly well.The 107 first appeared four years ago and this model has been given a facelift. It was a subtle operation, not a Bride of Wildenstein. It still looks like a yummy mummy plaything. Peugeot describes it as "urban", though perhaps a more appropriate word is "domestic", a fun appliance for getting to the shops.As is almost standard in these five-door superminis, the back seats are strictly for the limbless, but they are an ideal place to stick the shopping which, unless you're a two-cans-of-lager-and-a-Pot-Noodle type, is unlikely to fit in the boot.Nonetheless, the 107 is no hairdryer, or if it is, it's an Alex Ferguson hairdryer, full of surprising noise. It requires a fair few revs to get moving, which makes it sound, entertainingly, as though you're in a hot rod. But don't be fooled into thinking that volume equals power, especially when pulling away from traffic lights. You'll end up toast.Peugeot 107 1.0Price£8,745Top speed100mphAcceleration0-62mph in 14.2 secondsAverage consumption51.3mpgCO2 emissions106g/kmEco rating9/10At the wheelNigella LawsonBound forThe bakeryIn a wordTasty
Oh dear, Mini-Microsoft – the anonymous blogger inside Redmond who has agitated for years for the company to slim its staffing down and focus on results – isnot pleased. The other day he walked over to the new building called "The Commons" on the Microsoft campus and revelled in its size and grandeur: " I walked around admiring the scope of the project, thinking 'This is what Windows built. This is what Office built'."Then reality intruded. "I then reflected on the irony that it's Mr. Robbie Bach's Entertainment and Devices moving into the new campus with The Commons. Windows and Office funded this extravagant place for the folks who managed to burn through $8,000,000,000USD+ on the Xbox, be shown how it's done right from Nintendo with the Wii, dash the Zune against the juggernaut iPod, and have the iPhone drop-kick WinMobile to Mars."Mini is a man with a mission, but unfortunately despite the layoffs that have been put into place, his is looking about as futile as the Zune's efforts to unseat the iPod, or Windows Mobile's to grab the attention of the public over the iPhone. Microsoft hascut precisely 800 jobsin total this year.Perhaps, though, perhaps something is going to happen now that Microsoft has recorded its first-ever drop in quarterly revenues – down by 6% – with net profits profits down 32%. It's an Ozymandias moment: is that structure that Mini is marvelling at going to be a testament to past wonders, like thestatue's feet in the sand?Where has the money gone? A lot of it has gone out of the Windows franchise. Look at theraw numbers: the Servers and Tools division did better than Windows client for revenues (at a shade over $3.4bn), though not for profit, where Windows client generated $2.5bn against $1.34bn for Servers and Tools. And of course the Entertainment and Devices – so hated by Mini-Microsoft – lost $31m, while Online Services lost $575m.The question everyone is asking themselves is: does this mean that Microsoft's hegemony in the operating system market is finally, after a decade and a half (beginning with Windows 3.1 in 1992), over?Well, there are reasons why it might be, and reasons why it's probably not.Let's look at reasons why it might be. First, sales of PCs are declining – expected to fall by about 10% this year. But sales of netbooks are roaring ahead. The problem for Microsoft is that netbooks either run on Linux (perhaps 20%) or Windows XP Home, which is officially a zombie operating system that the companydeclared dead, buried and not to be updatedway back in June; even system builders aren't meant to be able to get licences for it.Well, tell that to all the netbook makers whose products are all over the shelves of shops like PC World. XP sure doesn't know it's dead.The problem that poses is that Microsoft gets less for each XP licence than for each Vista licence; Vista is just too fat to fit on a netbook, and disk and RAM sizes there aren't growing fast enough for it to squeeze onto them before Windows 7 comes along.Now, Windows 7 looks like it will just about squash into the netbooks of later this year. But even there you have a problem. Netbook OEMs probably won't want to pay the full licence for Windows 7; doing so would push up the cost of these price-keen machines too far. So they'll probably get a Windows 7 Starter Edition, whichonly lets you run three programs at once. As Jack Schofield noted, "Netbook users are generally not multitasking freaks, but whether they'll find this restriction acceptable remains to be seen."I suspect that once word spreads, it won't be: even my sub-teen daughter thinks nothing of running a browser, email, instant messenger, word processor, presentation program and a music player on her (non-Windows) netbook. The problem with trying to force people into a three-program straitjacket is that they will curse Microsoft, not the netbook maker, and move to living life through their browser. If they do that, Microsoft will largely be the loser, because it is far from the dominant player online. Alternatively, Ubuntu might fill the gap instead: everyone's got warm words for the latest version. (How is it on a netbook?)The only bright light for Microsoft is that the recession has to end sometime – doesn't it? – at which point it can hope that businesses will begin buying PCs again, and perhaps soon even PCs running Windows 7, which we should expect some time this year.Sighs of relief all round at Redmond? Well, perhaps. The horrible interregnum of Vista's rule since 2006 has poisoned the Microsoft brand. The rise of "good enough and definitely cheap enough" free alternatives to Microsoft Office, such as OpenOffice, is a threat in small businesses (though not at all, obviously, in the big businesses which, as the figures show, are still buying Sharepoint and Windows Server licences).However this means Microsoft is still leaning heavily on its past. When one looks to the future, for all theKing Lear-ish blusterfrom Steve Ballmer about how it's going to do dramatic things in search, Microsoft just isn't there. It's making noises about Azure, while Amazon (Amazon?!) and Google have moved far ahead as the providers of choice of cloud computing for small and medium businesses; its Xbox franchise still lags far behind Nintendo's for both numbers sold and profitability; and while people might havegotten upset that Apple sold a few copies of Sikalosoft's Baby Shaker, that pales in comparison toone billion apps downloadedfrom the iPhone App Store. Nobody's talking about a Windows Mobile app store. Well,Microsoft is, but nobodyoutsideMicrosoft.And there's the corporation's problems in a nutshell. As long as PC sales roll along, as long as corporations aren't cutting budgets, it's fine. But once it's forced to create new profit (not just revenue) centres, it flounders.How long will Windows survive? Probably as long as PCs. How long, though, is that? As smartphones become more pervasive, there's a temptation to think that PCs will become relics, statues' feet in the desert.I don't see it, though. Much as people want Microsoft and Windows to vanish – and hell, if XP were wiped from the earth then there'd be a lot less spam and millions fewer botnets – the reality is that computers need operating systems. Unix has proved itself a doughty survivor since the 1960s, with descendants everywhere from mainframes to digital music players. As long as we need an OS, we'll find we'll have Windows. But perhaps not such a profitable version for Microsoft. Like the record companies, its best times might be behind it; and that will only become apparent in retrospect, starting today. Mini-Microsoft may marvel at what Windows built. But nothing is forever. Look on your works, ye mighty.
Amazon's first-quarter earnings showed that the online retailer is resisting the economic downturn, with sales of books, DVDs and electronics pushing net profits up 24% to $177m (£121m) and revenues up 18% to $4.89bn, ahead of Wall Street expectations.The company joined Apple in having apparently benefited from the recession – in stark contrast to rivals such as eBay, which saw its net profit for the quarter fall to $357.1m, down 23% compared to the $460m it made in the same period the year before.Analysts have been expecting that Amazon might benefit from the problems affecting American bricks-and-mortar retailers: Circuit City has gone into bankruptcy, meaning that shoppers seeking electronics items might opt for an online source instead, and a number of shopping malls in the US have all but shut down as the recession there has swept through the country's retail outlets. Indeed, Amazon said that electronics and "general merchandise" sales rose by 38%, and that media sales – of DVDs and CDs – rose 7%."Brick-and-mortar companies are going bankrupt and going out of business altogether and that is helping Amazon gain market share," Imran Khan, an analyst at JPMorgan, told the New York Times.Amazon could still make further inroads. Khan expects it will sell more than 500,000 Kindle ebook readers this year, and it is also expected ot be introduced in the UK this year. Khan reckons that Kindle, which costs $359, generated more than $96m in revenues for Amazon last year.Jefff Bezos, Amazon's founder and chief executive, said sales of the Kindle had "exceeded our most optimistic expectations."Meanwhile eBay has struggled with the comparative strength of the dollar, which hurt income from abroad. Overall, sales (excluding vehicle sales) on the auction site fell by 16%; however growth at Skype, the internet phone service that eBay has ruminated floating off as a separate company, and its payments service PayPal, meant that overall sales fell only 8%.The company said it wants to try to improve performance on the site, to make it easier for buyers and sellers to complete transactions.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?My iPhone 3G, no question about it. The best thing about it is that I can give it to my kids (aged nine and 12) to play games when we go out to a restaurant. Peace, blessed peace, between the warring siblings. The alternative is to pour them each a soothing whiskey, but society frowns on that.When was the last time you used it, and what for?About five minutes ago to check my wife's email. That's not as nefarious as it sounds – she asked me to. At least, that's my story. The iPhone makes it easy to check multiple email accounts.What additional features would you add if you could?Cut and paste between apps. But I hear that's coming.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Yes. It's an Apple product. It will be obsolete in a few months when they introduce the next cool Apple toy. Have you not been paying attention for the last decade?What always frustrates you about technology in general?Even though I work on a Mac, I still use MS Word and the way it loses formatting when I'm in the middle of a document is infuriating. On my next book I'm switching to Mac's Pages software. I really shouldn't be exposing my children to the kind of language I use when dealing with Word.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?My son is a complete, full-service computer geek. Everyone should get themselves an in-house prodigy. It's very helpful.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm a nerd within the definite limits of my capabilities.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my current or former cars, actually. They're loaded with computers and guidance systems and safety systems and so on. My Audi has more computers than I do.Mac or PC, and why?Mac. Because I like things to actually work. When they don't work I want a place I can take them to get them fixed and I have three Apple stores within a half hour's drive. And because Macs are pretty.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I download whenever I can, but I still buy the occasional DVD. The last music I downloaded was Hollywood Undead's debut album. I use iTunes: I make my living on copyrights, so I do not infringe other people's copyrights.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?A great idea, no question about it. But I think they prefer to be called Android Assistants.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I want a Google chip implanted in my brain. Wire up my cerebrum. I'm perfectly serious. I want all access, all the time.• Gone, by Michael Grant, is out now from Egmont Press at £12.99
It's another round-up of the games news from around the web. Read on and be inspired:• Platformer Game Maker (Flash game development platform, for free) &gt;&gt;sploder.com• Wonderland: Commissioning for Attention: games, education and teens (looking for cash? Channel 4 is commissioning games)&gt;&gt;wonderlandblog.com• Cost of gaming on the rise (you're gonna continue to pay for for your downtime) &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• Budget 2009: Govt has 'failed to back the games industry' (no tax cuts, but loadsamoney to support game developers elsewhere) &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• Tweetmeme: Gaming (what anyone anywhere is saying about games on Twitter) &gt;&gt;tweetmeme.com• New China MMO stats (gazdzooks!) &gt;&gt;feedproxy.google.com• Numbers reveal true scale of iPhone's games market &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• The Beatles game dated (Rock Band-esque version of the Fab 4's tunes) &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• Retail finally enters console downloads space (Amazon US offers downloadable content for consoles)&gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• Will Wright leaves EA &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• New family gaming guide arrives online &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• About the UK Computer Games industry (stats and figures)&gt;&gt;skillset.org• Cory Doctorow: Game developers find ways to make industry recession-proof &gt;&gt;guardian.co.ukFollow us throughout the week ondelicious.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Home, the virtual space on the PS3, launched late last year. But chances are, like me, you may not have been back since the heady initial launch period. Back then the interesting, if slightly dated, concept– a Second Life style 3D virtual community with Sony and third party content – had some appeal but in practice it rarely tempted me away from a Resistance/Killzone 2 session. In hindsight it was the loading times that did it for me, but also the slightly undercooked feel. Just why would I want to go into a virtual cinema to watch a trailer when I can easily download a full screen HD version elsewhere? But just as I was getting ready to throw away the virtual keys it looks like Home may have just become worth a revisit.Electronic Arts have launched theEA Sports Complex. Here you can play multiplayer games – a formula-style racing game and Texas Hold-em poker are the launch offerings – and watch trailers from EA Sports. A golf game will be coming soon too. With achievements, leaderboards and the like you get the feeling that this could finally be a reason to make a return visit to Home.What do you think then? Will this tempt you back Home? Or are you already logging in every day anyway?
&bull; Mixed fortunes for Apple - which registered itsbillionth iPhone application downloadyesterday, but also had toapologisein the fallout of thetasteless Baby Shaker app. If that wasn't enough, Apple's security policies have come into question internet griefersmanaged to get into actor Salma Hayek's MobileMe account- with methods similar to those used tobreak into Sarah Palin's emaillast year.&bull; Desperate criminals are offering up to €25,000 to get their hands onold Nokia 1100 phones, according to PC World. Why? Nokia's not sure - but it could be part of anattempted online banking fraud.&bull; And finally, your weekend dose of robofun: You may remember German company Festo'sflying jellyfish, which did the rounds. Now take a look at their latest development - which has evolved intohuge, autonomous flying robopenguins.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
After a storm gathered over theiPhone game that simulated shaking a crying baby, Apple has stepped in and apologised for letting the game slip through its net.The 99-cent Baby Shaker application challenged players to see how long they could cope with a screaming child - which could only be silenced by vigorously shaking. This, unsurprisingly, outraged plenty of people who thought it tasteless to profit from mimicking child abuse - with criticism not only levelled at the developer, Sikalosoft, but also at Apple (which has to approve every application before it reaches the public, and takes a 30% cut of each sale).In an attempt to quell the growing criticism about Apple's screening policies, the company released a statement saying that it should not have let the application go on sale:"This application was deeply offensive and should not have been approved for distribution on the App Store," the company said. "We sincerely apologise for this mistake and thank our customers for bringing this to our attention."The application was withdrawn two days after it went on sale, after complaints - but Apple has not said how many copies were downloaded.Meanwhile, Sikalosoft'swebsitehas been taken offline, and the man behind the company, Alex Talbot, has yet to speak out.Some enterprising soul, however, has created a page atSikalosoft.comdecrying the concept of Baby Shaker."Yes, the Baby Shaker iPhone app was a bad idea," it says. "You should never shake a baby! Even on an Apple iPhone Baby Shaking application."
Apple is understandably proud of the fact that there is now an iPhone application that simulates just about every human activity; some games make farting noises, others decide whose turn it is to make tea and another lets you pretend to drink a pint of beer.But it wasn't the smartest move by the company to approve an application in which the user gets to shake and shake a virtual baby to make it stop crying.Priced at 99 cents (70 pence) - of which Apple will have profited roughly 30 cents - Baby Shaker went on sale from the iPhone App Store on Monday, triggering outrage against the software company that wrote it, and Apple's decision to approve it for sale. Early on Wednesday, it was withdrawn.Written by Sikalosoft - apparently a one-man company run by a programmer called Alex Talbot - the program showed a series of black and white drawings of babies. Its description said: "On a plane, on the bus, in a theatre. Babies are everywhere you don't want them to be! They're always distracting you from preparing for that big presentation at work with their incessant crying. Before Baby Shaker, there was nothing you could do about it. See how long you can endure his or her adorable cries before you just have to find a way to quiet the baby down!" Shaking the motion-sensitive phone would eventually put large red Xs over the baby's eyes.Although the description for the game also adds "never, never shake a baby", the game was condemned after it was flagged up by a review website called Krapps early on Wednesday. "It's not funny, Apple!" the site said. "Maybe it's just us, but we would never even joke about child abuse and use it as a form of entertainment." Apple dropped the game the same day.Patrick Donohue, founder of the Sarah Jane Brain Foundation, a New York-based group that tries to widen understanding about pediatric brain injuries, took Apple to task in a letter to Steve Jobs and other Apple executives. "As the father of a three-year-old who was shaken by her baby nurse when she was only five days old, breaking three ribs, both collarbones and causing a severe brain injury, words cannot describe my reaction," he wrote.Marilyn Bar, a board member of the SJBF and founder of the US Center for Shaken Baby Syndrome, said in a statement: "Not only are they making fun of Shaken Baby Syndrome, but they are actually encouraging it. This is absolutely terrible."For the application to be sold in the Apple store, Apple would have to have approved it. Under standard App Store terms, Apple also takes 30% of any sales revenue. The company had not responded to requests for more information on why the approval was made, or what will happen to any revenue it gained from it by press time. Attempts to contact Sikalosoft were unsuccessful.The iPhone App Store hosts thousands of applications and games, many of them free. There have been nearly a billion downloads from it since it opened in July 2008, but there have been a number of complaints from developers - first that Apple took too long to approve programs and games, and then that it was unnecessarily censorious.Notoriously, the program that makes farting noises to order was initially rejected, but Apple relented in December, allowing a new generation of trivial programs it had previously rejected on the basis of "limited utility" - which might be translated as "Apple is not amused" - on to the store.Now, huge numbers of programs whose utility might not seem enormous are available: iFart, whose purpose is embodied in the name; Bang!Bang! which simulates gunfire sounds; Wheel of Tea, for deciding who's next to the canteen; and iBeer, which turns the screen into a virtual pint of beer.Apple has previously withdrawn other programs. One that didn't last long was called "I Am Rich". Priced at $999.99, it simply showed a red icon and the text "I am rich". Eight people bought it.Apple refunded several buyers when they realised that the richer person was now the developer, Armin Heinrich, not them.
Dave Arneson, who has died aged 61, was the American co-creator of Dungeons &amp; Dragons (D&amp;D) and the father of role-playing games. He was a fixture in the gaming industry even before it was an industry, his work having driven that transition, as well as spawning books, movies and computer games - and creator of a pop-culture phenomenon that brought joy to millions.Born in Hennepin County, Minnesota, Dave started playing Gettysburg, the board game that re-enacts the American civil war battle of the same name, in the 1960s. While studying history at the University of Minnesota, he moved into playing military miniatures games, with ranks of toy soldiers. In 1969, while refereeing a Romans v Gauls contest, Dave allowed a player who had painted up a Gaul shaman to call upon the gods to destroy a Roman elephant. As the Roman player laughed, Dave described a lightning bolt destroying the elephant. In that instant, role-playing was born.The same year, Dave met Gary Gygax at the gaming convention Gen Con at Lake Geneva, Wisconsin, thus beginning the collaboration that would lead to the creation of D&amp;D. The two first worked together on Don't Give up the Ship, a set of naval miniatures rules eventually published in 1971. In 1970, Dave began working on Blackmoor - the first role-playing game. As is common practice among game designers, he incorporated bits of other rules into Blackmoor, including parts of Gygax's medieval rules Chainmail.By 1974 they had produced D&amp;D. None of the existing game companies wanted to produce it and its creators lacked the funds to do so themselves. Dave was then a security guard. In the end, a friend came up with the money, and Gygax formed his own company, Tactical Studies Rules (later TSR) to produce the new fantasy role-playing game. The first 500 copies sold out within a year. D&amp;D introduced dragons, wizards, trolls, dwarves, goblins and elves to quests in search of treasure or to defeat the forces of evil. Without a board, all this was achieved with just graph paper, pencils, the polygonal dice and a set of complex rules.Dave's focus rescued role-playing from miniatures rules long on tables, tape-measures and army units. He brought the game down to single characters, drawing inspiration from the fantasy works of authors such as JRR Tolkien and Jack Vance. Individual players assumed their roles and sought to complete quests organised by the gamemaster in sessions that could last for hours, and in campaigns that could carry on for months and years.For Dave, the fun was in the by-play between characters and the application of cleverness when it came to problem-solving. Role-playing at its best is cooperative storytelling and his strength was in creating settings and rules that encouraged this.Dave and Gygax went their separate ways in the late 1970s, and in 1979 Dave filed the first of five lawsuits to recover his royalties. One part of the agreement was that TSR was obliged to refer to Dave as the co-creator of D&amp;D. The settlements also paid him a significant sum, with which he founded Adventure Games and 4D Interactive Systems, Inc - one of the first computer game companies. He generously used the settlement to help numerous small game companies through the 1980s, despite knowing he would see little, if any, of that money back. He was loved by game designers, and in 1984 was elected to the Academy of Gaming Arts and Design hall of fame. (Gygax died last year.)In the late 1980s, Dave shut down Adventure Games and moved to California. He worked with Sleuth Publications for a time and did a great deal of freelance work. He also worked with special needs students. He was a great advocate of the educational use of games and role-playing.In his later years, he moved to Florida to teach game design at Full Sail University, work he greatly enjoyed, especially when he could take students on a "field trip" - to a convention. His affable demeanour made it easy to forget how insightful he was. Often enough his eyes would narrow and a discussion would turn serious. He would solve a problem, smile and make a joke.Personable and possessed of a wry sense of humour, Dave was very approachable, and kind to the awestruck. In 1980, as a new employee of the games company Flying Buffalo, I met him at a convention. We ended up in a coffee shop, had lunch together, and struck up a close friendship.Even when he was diagnosed with cancer, he remained positive. Last August, he attended Gen Con once again, where 39 years previously he had begun his career. As his daughter said, he just wanted everyone to have fun and be happy. And there, surrounded by throngs of gamers, he was at his happiest.In 1984, Dave married Frankie Morneau; they later divorced. He is survived by his daughter, Malia, her husband, Luke Weinhagen, and his grandchildren, Shelby and Duncan.• David Lance (Dave) Arneson, game designer, born 1 October 1947; died 7 April 2009
In its latestquarterly results, Microsoft has posted the first year-on-year fall in revenue in its 23-year history, with a 5.6% fall to $13.65bn. Net income dropped by 32% to $3.0bn after Microsoft took $710mn in write-offs. (Operating income increased by 3% to $4.4bn, or $4.7bn adjusted for severance charges.) Microsoft said:Revenue in Client, Microsoft Business Division, and Server &amp; Tools was negatively impacted by weakness in the global PC and Server markets. Revenue from enterprise customers remained stable during the quarter.Client revenue (ie Windows for PCs) was worst hit: revenues fell from $4.0bn to $3.4bn, and profits from $3.1bn to $2.5bn. On the quarter's results, Windows Client became Microsoft's third biggest business, after the Business Division (Office etc) and Server and Tools (Windows Server, SharePoint etc).Heavy investment in the online services business (Windows Live, Azure etc) led to a loss of $575mn on revenues of $721mn, and that division has now lost $1.5bn in the past nine months. Entertainment and Devices (Xbox, Windows Mobile, Zune etc) moved from a profit of $106m to a loss of $31 on revenues down by 1.6% to $1.6bn. However, the Server and Tools division (Windows Server etc) increased revenues slightly from $3.2bn to $3.5bn and increased profits from $1.1bn to $1.3bn.Microsoft said sales of PCs were down by 7%-9% and there was a 6% decline in OEM sales of Windows (ie to manufacturers pre-installing Windows client software). OEM license sales did better than the market due to "attach gains", presumably at Linux's expense.Sales of Xbox 360 games consoles grew by "almost 30%" to 1.7m units, Microsoft said. However, it also cut prices, which lowered revenues.Microsoft's chief financial officer Chris Liddell did not predict an improvement in the near future. "We remain more cautious than most about the state of the world economy," he said. "While we'd all like to think the recovery will be soon and painless, we believe it will be slow and gradual."StreetInsider.comreported that Microsoft's stock rallied in after hours trading, saying: "shares of Microsoft most recently traded at $19.66, up about 4% from the close."Microsoft is still making $1bn a month in net profits, so it's not exactly suffering, but its first ever reverse is probably a psychological blow.
It seems last night's TechCrunch UKGeekNRolla eventstirred up some fierce arguments. During a panel about women in technology, the eternal arguments about gender in the industry came up - and fireworks ensured when the Daily Telegraph's Milo Yiannopoulossaid"we shouldn't be apologising for having fewer women in a sector in which men naturally perform better".That's now developed into a full blown bitchmeme, with Miloexpounding on his argument- and responses from many different bloggers and attendees. Cate Sevilla of BitchBuzz sayswe are seeing adeclinein women in technology, while Huddle's Zuzanna Pasierbinska-Wilsonpulled together some rough data. Lisa Reichelt says perhaps women who work in technology PR, marketing, journalism and so on should start defining themselves as "in technology" (a dubious avenue to go down, I think) while Alan Patrick at Freecloud believes "there is clearly something deeply visceral in some men about admitting all this stuff".TechCrunch's Mike Butcherpoints outthat the panel wasn't meant to rehash this argument, but explore what opportunities are being missed as a result of the drastic gender imbalance.Over the last few years I have headed profoundly into the tech space and I have been puzzled at the dearth of women involved. It really doesn't make a lot of sense to me to be honest, and from time to time it pops up in conversations on and off-line. Plus, I think it's something tech startups should address, not because they are inherently sexist - far from it I would say - but there are huge advantages to be had from tapping into this relatively untapped talent.I'd agree. Yiannopoulous' argument seems solipsistic at best, and at worst wilfully ignorant of theevidence. The point isn't about what the current system has produced; it's whether there are institutional gaps that could be fixed or interesting areas that aren't being exploited. The British stereotype of geeks as young, male (and usually white) is self-reinforcing. In any other consumer industry where women were heavy - or even dominant - users, you'd be mad not to have plenty of women on board. Why shouldn't technology be the same?&bull; This seems an apt moment to remind you of last month's episode of ourTech Weekly podcast dedicated to discussing women in technology.
Microsoft workers should never have to leave campus again to buy a beer, replace a bike tire or heal their spiritual energy through Reiki.This week the company opened a splashy dining-shopping destination called The Commons, a signature piece in a massive expansion that is adding the equivalent of Seattle's Columbia Tower to what the company calls the world's largest corporate campus.The complex of 14 restaurants, shops, a football field, even a pub is the gooey filling in the emerging West Campus, a 1.4m-sq-ft (130,000-sq-metre) town square of four office buildings that will house the company's entertainment and devices division, which developed video-game player Xbox and music-player Zune.While the head of Microsoft's business remains on the other side of Highway 520 - the Windows and Office groups, Chief Executive Steve Ballmer's office - its stomach is clearly moving west."We've got a daytime population of over 50,000 people, so when you're looking at that size of congregation of people, you start thinking about the things they need in their daily lives," said Chris Owens, general manager of worldwide real estate at Microsoft."The Commons ... has a lot of features to help people get things done, whether that's banking or eating or shopping or taking care of their cellphone connectivity, getting exercise, connecting with people socially, without having to get off campus."The Mixer, a two-story building, includes a spinoff of Pike Place Market, complete with a miniature version of the red neon clock, hunks of Beecher's cheese, jars of pepper jelly and Chukar cherries.The 106,000-square-foot building also houses a post office, a credit union, a bicycle-repair shop and mobile phone dealers. Upstairs, a conference centre can hold 1,000 people for a meeting.Across a patio area surrounding a fountain is the Submixer building, which holds a spa where employees can get a trim or a facial, buy scented candles at a Watson Kennedy store and browse an art gallery featuring art produced by employees.The Spitfire pub, after some haggling, will open up for business shortly, but will serve alcohol only after 3pm by group reservation. Only employees can use the Commons' buildings."It's really nice. It has a futuristic vibe," said Hrvoje Benko, a researcher on interactive touch technology at Microsoft Research. "It's a little mall like."Benko, who was eating a free ice cream on a "soft" opening day last week, said he could see coming down to buy lunch a few days a week. He was most excited about having his own soccer field because the fields on main campus are often booked.The main campus also has food courts and sports fields, but the offices grew piecemeal. The West Campus, which has a capacity for 4,500 workers, represents a new approach for Redmond, Washington, said Owens: a master-planned office and recreation complex.Studio D, a four-story West Campus office building that filled up in March, features a glittery beaded curtain with the images of Captain Kirk and Spock - William Shatner and Leonard Nimoy, not JJ Abrams' millennial version - creating the effect that Star Trek Enterprise officers are transporting into the lobby.For now, workers on the east side of 520 can head west by crossing an overpass or taking a Microsoft shuttle. The company is planning to build a bridge over the freeway. Those plans continue even after Microsoft announced 5,000 job cuts and scrapped some real-estate expansion plans in January. Owens said the cuts did not affect West Campus plans."We made a decision to do this years ago," he said. "It's serving such a large population, it's not that much of a set of frills to the campus. It's going to be serving 10,000 to 15,000 people a week."He did say the company held down costs by choosing less expensive fixtures and finishes in the new buildings: "We haven't gold plated anything in that facility."He said they were also keeping the opening celebrations subdued in a down economy. "We're not going to be having Bruce Springsteen come and play or anything like that."
The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) has ruled that Google's Street View service does not breach the Data Protection Act (PDF), reports theGuardian. David Evans, senior data protection practice manager, said you could see people walking by on TV news reports,and, in any case, it is not in the public interest to turn the digital clock back. In a world where many people tweet, Facebook and blog, it is important to take a common sense approach towards Street View and the relatively limited privacy intrusion it may cause.Google already blurs images of people's faces and car number plates, and people who think something violates their privacy can use the site toask for the image to be removed.Law firm Pinsent Masons'out-law.com says: "An ICO spokesman has told out-law.com that it has received '74 written complaints/enquiries since the launch of Google Street View', but the ICO was not able to break down those concerns before publication." (The total includes people who like the idea of Street View.)Street View coverage started in the US in May 2007, with coverage of 25 cities and towns in the UK being introduced last month. Google's camera-cars are adding more.It has been suggested that people could be given warning either by a car driving in front of the camera-car, making announcements, or by the camera-car playing a jingle, like a high-tech ice cream van. But while that would give some people the chance to hide, it could prompt others to make perhaps regrettable displays for the cameras.
Oracle's purchase of Sun Microsystems, announced on Monday morning, was one of those things that happens regularly in journalism: a huge story, breaking just as we were preparing the Technology section (which, though it appears in Thursday's paper, needs to be complete by Tuesday evening).We'd need a big story, of course, about what the implications of the takeover. But I also thought that it needed something else; both Oracle and Sun are famously acquisitive, having bought dozens if not scores of companies in their lives.So, I thought, it would make sense to have a table of the major acquisitions by each company. Only problem was, who would do it? That's very labour-intensive work: someone has to track down the list and enter it into a spreadsheet or other table so that it can go into our production process.But we didn't have a spare person to do that. The idea that newspapers have dozens of people sitting around waiting for the phone to ring is one that isn't in the least bit accurate. Everyone's focussed on getting stuff done.However, I thought, perhaps there's a large group of people who'd be willing to sacrifice a little bit of time to help us get this done. Such as the 400,000-odd followers of the Guardian Technology twitter feed -@guardiantech - who might, after all, know just the detail we need (or where to find it).So I set up a Google spreadsheet, made it world-editable (mindful of the fact that there's no revision control on those spreadsheets, so if someone deleted the content, it would beall gone forever) andannouncedit in the Twitter feed at 2.30pm.The response was astonishing: people piled in, often 30 or more at a time. You could watch in real time as the spreadsheet rows flickered and updated. Yes, as I'd feared, some people did try to put rubbish in (perhaps thinking this was a live output to the Guardian site; I wouldn't do that without many more precautions in place) but others took it out. I barely had to keep watch.Other peoplepoliced it (thanks,@markngand others).All I'd asked for was that people give the name of the purchased company, the amount (if known), whether it was cash or shares (if known), when it happened, a URL link to the event and their Twitter name.But what was fascinating was that people decided that wasn't enough.They edited the company names for Oracle and Sun so that they had a live stock ticker.They added a column to explain what had happened to the acquired company or its technology - absorbed, dumped and so on. (One person put all the Oracle list from its website onto a separate sheet, but I had to stop that, because we just needed a straightforward table.)The fact that we were doing this pinged around the twittersphere - notably, whenClay Shirky retweetedthe fact at 3.30pm.And about two and a half hours after I'd opened the spreadsheet, enough was done that I could close it.So, thanks right there to those who left their Twitter handles -@nevali,@houseofhayden,@olafgeibig,@ar2,@moniforce,@ajlanghorn,@x20mar,@nomar,@patrickf,@rleyton,@pooya72,@JimboGunn,@cezarmaroti- you all did wonderful work. As did the many, many other people who edited but didn't leave a handle.What was also interesting was that someone at the Wall Street Journal clearly had the same idea about getting a list of acquisitions - though there the thought was more of Oracle (and also about noting which organisations had had stakes in the companies sold).You cansee the result here. As far as I know, though, it wasn't crowdsourced; some poor soul (or souls) had to slog away at that. Certainly the information about the companies that were behind the sales is useful (key stuff for the WSJ demographic). But I'd also note a few things:1) the Guardian twittersourced table has both Oracle and Sun acquisitions2) it goes a lot further back than the WSJ one - to 1999 (whoever knew that Oracle bought Thinking Machines?)3) ours points out some important ones - notably Sun's 1996 acquisition of Lighthouse Design, which is how Jonathan Schwartz, the present open source-loving chief executive, joined.That wasn't the end of it, of course; to reach the final version in the paper and online, we had to check the details; for the paper, we had to leave out many of those that were provided simply for reasons of space. (That included the list of Twitter names who contributed. Apologies.)But here it is: thetable of some acquisitions made over the years by Oracle and Sun, as sourced by you. Apart from two - I put in Oracle buying Sun, and Sun buying MySQL. That was all. You cancompare it to the spreadsheet(which is still viewable, but has been closed for editing).The list isn't complete, either: there are lots of Oracle and Sun acquisitions that weren't included (even though both companies have extensive acquisitions pages on their sites).No matter. We weren't looking for perfection, but "good enough" short cuts. Newspapers are only first drafts of history; we needed to have a form that would give some useful detail.So, would I do this again? I'd like there to be a revision system: world-editable documents are dangerous thing, as any Wikipedian will tell you; I might try something with clearer limits, and make more regular backups somehow.But as a way of bringing the power and knowledge of the crowd to this article, and helping out a journalist in something of a pickle, this was a time when I was delighted and surprised by the Guardian Technology readers. Thank you all again.
At GDC2009, Jane McGonigal introduced five challenges to game developers (read about them here, in our GDC2009 coverage). One of the more esoteric ideas was to change the world through game mechanics. True to form, the game designer behind the serious ARGWorld Without Oiland the group at theInstitute for the Future, have released the results from their most recent title,Superstruct, in which players were challenged to come up with scenarios to save the world from its end.Although the threats that were posed were fictional (e.g., chemical warfare, hunger), the output and analysis was thoughtful and relevant to our current crises. Based on more than 1,000 stories submitted for the game by almost 8,000 players worldwide, the team identified three scenarios that could evolve in similar situations. Fromcnet:First, "The Long crisis," which "plots a path of slow response, resistance to change, and attempts to maintain current power relationships."Second, "Emergence," which "follows a course of rapid adaptation from the bottom up, without much unifying direction."And finally, "The great transition," which "envisions a world remade by technology, a challenge to the planetary dominance of humans as a species."Superstructis a crowdsourcing vehicle that uses game mechanics across multiple platforms to engage the players and get them to contribute. As McGonigal argued in her keynote, this is the most powerful asset game developers have in their toolboxes. Here is an example of how to implement it.Of course, it's a rather good-deedy example, one that might - in its current format - inform non-profits how to use new media for their own goals. It successfully extends the marketing-laden Alternate Reality Gaming genre by allowing players to contribute in a meaningful way. Sure, traditional game makers may not want to approach such lofty ideals, but Superstruct and other games like it indicate that the know-how for engagement that's in developers' heads is being applied in some strange places. Who knows where this kind of thing might end up.
The Pirate BayonDipity.The lawyer for Pirate Bay spokesperson Peter Sunde says that he will bedemand a retrialafter it was revealed that the judge in the case sits on theboard of the Swedish Association for the Protection of Industrial Propertyand also is a member of the Swedish Copyright Association, according to areport on Sveriges Radio's P3 news programme.Judge Tomas Norström did not deny membership in the organisations, but he said, "My view has been that these activities do not constitute a conflict of interest."However, Peter Althin, the lawyer for Pirate Bay spokesperson Peter Sunde, said that last autumn they found out that a lay judge had similar connections, and the court excluded the judge in order to prevent a conflict of interest.Swedish legal expert Leif Silbersky told Swedish Radio that a retrial was possible, but defence lawyers would have to act quickly.
Google Street View, the controversial website that shows 360-degree street views of many of Britain's cities does not breach the Data Protection Act, the information commissioner ruled today.Hundreds of people complained that their privacy was breached by the service, which launched last month for 25 cities and towns.Today the Information Commissioner's Office rejected those complaints but said it would watch Google closely to ensure that it responded quickly to requests for the removal of images that identified individuals.Google has promised to blur faces and numberplates, but many people have complained that they are identifiable in the photographs.Scores of pictures, including one of a man leaving a Soho sex shop, were removed the day after the site's UK launch.In a statement the Information Commissioner's Office said an outright ban on Street View would be "disproportionate to the relatively small risk of privacy detriment".David Evans, senior data protection practice manager said: "Watch the TV news any day this week and you will see people walking past reporters in the street. In the same way, there is no law against anyone taking pictures of people in the street as long as the person using the camera is not harassing people."Google Street View does not contravene the Data Protection Act and, in any case, it is not in the public interest to turn the digital clock back. In a world where many people tweet, Facebook and blog, it is important to take a common sense approach towards Street View and the relatively limited privacy intrusion it may cause."He added: "As a regulator we take a pragmatic and common-sense approach. Any images of people's faces or numberplates should be blurred. We emphasised the importance of blurring these images to protect people's privacy and limit privacy intrusion. Google must respond quickly to deletion requests and complaints, as it is doing at the moment."The Information Commissioner's Officer confirmed that it met Google last year to discuss how Street View would be implemented. It was satisfied at the time that the company was putting in adequate safeguards to protect privacy.A Google spokeswoman said: "We are pleased with the ICO's statement. We took care to build privacy considerations into Street View from the outset and have engaged with the ICO throughout the development process."We recognise that a small minority of people may not wish their house to be included in the service, which is why we have created easy to use removal tools."Last month the campaign group, Privacy International, lodged a formal complaint with the Information Commissioner's Office. In a 2,500 word response, the ICO said it was satisfied that Google was not breaching privacy laws.An American couple lost a legal action against Google earlier this year in which they claimed Street View amounted to trespass and invasion of privacy.
A game called "Baby Shaker" for Apple's iPhone, which encouraged people to try to quiet a crying baby by shaking it, has been withdrawn by the company after complaints from outraged parents' organisations.The 99-cent game, which showed black-and-white line drawings of a baby, had the description:  "On a plane, on the bus, in a theatre. Babies are everywhere you don't want them to be! They're always distracting you from preparing for that big presentation at work with their incessant crying. Before Baby Shaker, there was nothing you could do about it. See how long you can endure his or her adorable cries before you just have to find a way to quiet the baby down!"Shaking the motion-sensitive phone meant that the onscreen baby would get large red Xs over its eyes.The application, written by a company called Sikalosoft, first appeared on Apple's iPhone App Store on Monday. It was withdrawn on Wednesday after a number of blogs and review sites had pointed to the distasteful - and dangerous - behaviour it was promoting.This is a surprising slip for Apple, which monitors every application and game before allowing it on to the App Store, from which around 1 billion programs have been downloaded since it was opened last year.Patrick Donohue, founder of the Sarah Jane Brain Foundation, a New York-based group which tries to widen understanding about pediatric brain injuries, took Apple to task in a letter to Steve Jobs and other executives, saying: "As the father of a three-year-old who was shaken by her baby nurse when she was only five days old, breaking three ribs, both collarbones and causing a severe brain injury, words cannot describe my reaction."Marilyn Bar, a board member of the Sarah Jane Brain Foundation and also founder of the US Center for Shaken Baby Syndrome, said in a statement: "Not only are they making fun of shaken baby syndrome, but they are actually encouraging it. This is absolutely terrible."Neither Sikalosoft nor Apple had any comment as this article was written.Apple's App Store monitoring policy has previously been criticised for being too strict: Apple initially banned programs that made farting noises, and those which mimicked drinking. But it has recently relaxed its requirements, so that programs such as iFart and another which lets you jiggle a woman jogger's breasts have made their way onto the store. The Baby Shaker embarrassment, however, may mean that more careful examination will be reinstated.
On this evidence, Vin Diesel should give up the day job – he has certainly never made a film as enjoyable as this, the second game in which he stars as ­Riddick. This time he stows away on the Dark ­Athena, a prison-spaceship run by mercenaries.His task is simple – to free the prisoners and escape – but Dark Athena's joy lies in the breadth of tasks he must undertake to accomplish that. Which include sneaking around in the shadows, jumping and climbing, puzzle-solving, fist-fighting, piloting a mech and shooting. It takes ages before he acquires a gun, but from the off, he can kill drones, grab their attached guns and shoot while rooted to the spot. Great set-pieces abound, such as a period controlling drones remotely.The storyline is sensibly minimal, and every aspect of all the control systems is well thought-out and super-smooth. Plus a remastered HD version of the first game is thrown in, and there are some enticing online modes. Serious value for money, and the best game so far this year.
In today's paperI've written abouthow movie studios are quietly exploring alternatives to big videogame tie-ins. Instead of selling off conversion rights to game publishers, they're pulling in developers and distributing tie-ins themselves via digital distribution.I go on to mention how movie makers are also using browser-based titles and social networks to publicise new films. This is nothing entirely new, but they're getting much more inventive about it. I found out about this a little too late for the column, but Sony Pictures has just releaseda Twitter gamebased around the forthcoming Terminator Salvation movie. The idea is that you're a resistance operative who must intercept and decode Skynet communications, which arrive to you via Tweets when you follow the game at 'Resistance2018'. Some are basic anagrams, others are trivia questions - the more you get right, the higher you score.It's a little complicated if you're not fully au fait with Twitter symbols, but it's a clever idea, and a neat alternative to a Facebook app.
