A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSerious security flaw in OAuth, OpenID discovered &gt;&gt; CNETFollowing in the steps of the OpenSSL vulnerability Heartbleed, another major flaw has been found in popular open-source security software. This time, theholes have been found in the log-in tools OAuth and OpenID, used by many websites and tech titans including Google, Facebook, Microsoft, and LinkedIn, among others.Wang Jing, a Ph.D. student at the Nanyang Technological University in Singapore, discovered that the serious vulnerability "Covert Redirect" flaw can masquerade as a log-in popup based on an affected site's domain. Covert Redirect is based on a well-known exploit parameter.For example, someone clicking on a malicious phishing link will get a popup window in Facebook, asking them to authorize the app. Instead of using a fake domain name that's similar to trick users, the Covert Redirect flaw uses the real site address for authentication.Using internet considered harmful.Strava global heatmap &gt;&gt; StravaStrava is an exercise-tracking system; and this is a global map of where people have been doing that exercise (principally, cycling and running). Zooming in gives some surprising results - pick a place you know.xkcd Phone &gt;&gt; xkcdTo be honest, this looks a lot more attractive than the Amazon one. To save you the trouble, the ALT tag (always worth reading in XKCD) says:Presented in partnership with Qualcomm, Craigslist, Whirlpool, Hostess, LifeStyles, and the US Chamber of Commerce. Manufactured on equipment which also processes peanuts.Price includes 2-year Knicks contract. Phone may extinguish nearby birthday candles. If phone ships with Siri, return immediately; do not speak to her and ignore any instructions she gives. Do not remove lead casing. Phone may attract/trap insects; this is normal. Volume adjustable (requires root). If you experience sudden tingling, nausea, or vomiting, perform a factory reset immediately. Do not submerge in water; phone will drown. Exterior may be frictionless. Prolonged use can cause mood swings, short-term memory loss, and seizures. Avert eyes while replacing battery. Under certain circumstances, wireless transmitter may control God.How to buy Xiaomi products and identify fake ones (MI3, Redmi, Power bank) &gt;&gt; MIUI Official CommunityAs Xiaomi builds its reputation globally and begins to sell products in Singapore, there are many retailers who want to make profits by selling fake Xiaomi products, including Xiaomi smartphones, Xiaomi power banks, and even some accessories.As Chinese brands get bigger, intellectual property will become a bigger concern. Will ripoffs diminish as a result?Google Glass parts estimated to cost less than $80 &gt;&gt; WSJ DigitsGoogle Glass currently carries a $1,500 price tag, but the components packed tightly inside the device may cost the Internet giant a lot less, according to an early estimate released on Wednesday.TechInsights' Teardown.com business, which takes apart and analyses new consumer gadgets, recently  examined the insides of Glass and put a cost estimate of $79.78 on its components.A Google spokesman called Teardown.com's cost estimate "absolutely wrong." He declined to comment further.Possible points of contention may have to do with the physical constraints associated with a pair of eyeglasses.The Glass display, for example, is only a few millimetres wide, but boasts quite high resolution and could have been tricky and expensive to design and manufacture. But Teardown.com estimated that the display, touchscreen and glass cost Google only $3.Even if that display costs as much as everything else, wouldn't that make the total parts cost $150?Yahoo's default = a personalized experience &gt;&gt; Yahoo Global Public PolicyAs of today, web browser Do Not Track settings will no longer be enabled on Yahoo. As the first major tech company to implement Do Not Track, we've been at the heart of conversations surrounding how to develop the most user-friendly standard. However, we have yet to see a single standard emerge that is effective, easy to use and has been adopted by the broader tech industry.Advertising firm abandons scheme which would have made it harder to serve pricier targeted advertising. Film at 11.Apple begins shipping sapphire from Arizona plant to China ahead of iPhone 6 launch &gt;&gt; 9to5MacApple for the first time started shipping sapphire from its new plant in Arizona to its suppliers in China ahead of ramping up the operation with more furnaces capable of supplying larger quantities. The news comes from UBS Research's Q1 preview on GT Advanced Technologies, the company that Apple has partnered with to open a sapphire plant producing the material expected to replace Corning's Gorilla Glass on the next-generation iPhone display."Sapphire furnaces" sounds like something out of Flash Gordon.2014 US wireless smartphone satisfaction study &gt;&gt; J.D. PowerMore than one-fifth (21%) of smartphone owners cite "price" as the main reason they chose their particular device, an increase from 13% in the 2011 U.S. Wireless Smartphone Satisfaction Study—Volume 2.While smartphone owners continue to cite "features" as the primary reason for selecting their device (35%), the rate has declined significantly from the 2011 Vol. 2 study (57%).Reasons for purchase have an impact on customer satisfaction and future loyalty. Selecting a smartphone device based on price generates significantly lower levels of satisfaction (808 on a 1,000-point scale) and repurchase rates (18%) than selections based on product-specific reasons such as operating system (860 and 35%, respectively).So people choose on price, and then regret it?In 2014, the average purchase price for smartphone devices has increased and owners are less likely to receive a discount. On average, smartphone owners indicate that their device cost $202 in the 2014 Vol. 1 study, an increase from $174 in the 2011 Vol. 2 study. More than half (52%) of owners have received a discount on their smartphone in 2014, compared with 60% in the 2011 Vol. 2 study.When asked which features they would like on their next device, smartphone owners most often cite seamless voice control (36%); built-in sensors that can gauge temperature, lighting, noise and moods to customise settings to the environment (35%); and facial recognition and biometric security (28%).The customer satisfaction ratings tell a tale too.How a dumb gaming rumour spreads &gt;&gt; KotakuJason Schreier on the (wrong) suggestion that the next CoD would be set in World War 1:So where's this rumour coming from, really?PA quick look at Bubblews.com reveals that it's not a news website; it is a user-run community website where people can publish whatever they'd like. In fact, according to the Bubblews About page, users can get paid based on the views and shares they get on articles there.In other words, if you go viral, you get paid—whether or not your rumour is true.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
National Broadband Network (NBN) users may need to bear additional costs to access the network if a leaked proposal to make service providers bear the costs for network equipment is approved.IT Newsreported that a leaked discussion paper from the NBN Co showed the company was considering making internet service providers responsible for the costs of installing some equipment, such as modems. Users might have to pay these costs if the proposal was approved.The company does not currently require customers to pay for installation, but under the proposal modem installation would be left for homeowners to do themselves or to contractors.An NBN spokesman said the paper did not reflect NBN policy, and there was no proposal for users to be directly charged for a connection.&quot;But we would consider setting up a professional paid-for installation field force for additional in-home wiring if RSPs (Retail Service Providers) wanted it,&quot; the spokesman said.The rollout of the network has dogged successive Labor and Coalition governments.Tasmanian Liberal leader Will Hodgmansaid the Coalition’s NBN policy could cost his party the state election, in an embarrassing pre-interview gaffe in February.Paul Fletcher, parliamentary secretary to the minister for communications, Malcolm Turnbull, had earlier said at an IT forum that the Coalition’s cost estimate of the previous Labor government’s NBN plan“may have been a little high.”
Global online payments provider PayPal said it has parted company with a recently hired executive after he sent out a series of disparaging and badly spelled remarks about colleagues on Twitter, including one telling a co-worker "duck you".Paypal tweeted on Saturday: "Rakesh Agrawal is no longer with the company. Treat everyone with respect. No excuses. PayPal has zero tolerance."His expletive-laden and often incoherent tweets, since deleted, appeared to have been sent in the small hours from a jazz festival in New Orleans. Among other things, they specifically insulted Christina Smedley, vice president of global communications at PayPal.One tweet said, "Duck you Smedley, you useless middle manager," according tocopies of the tweets from his @rakeshlobster account that were posted by the website Business Insider.The Twitter anger continued after the split, with Rakesh "Rocky" Agrawal accusing his former employer of a misleading announcement and claiming that he had already quit before his irate and often indecipherable tweets were sent.Agrawal, whoseTwitter profilestill listed "Global strategy at PayPal" as his job on Sunday, tweeted that "the tweet from paypal is factually correct but utterly misleading. I resigned before the events of Friday night."Agrawal, who only joined PayPal as director of global strategy in March, later tweeted: "Day one of my next adventure? I am so ducking tired."He then appeared to claim the tweets were sent in error. "Last night I was using a new phone that I bought because I wanted to test experiences on android. Those messages were meant for a colleague," the tech veteran tweeted."Note to self: don't test a new phone when sleep deprived after working your ass off for 20 hours a day while on vacation," he added.He had already been critical of PayPal in the past, writing in ablogpost in 2012that its point-of-sale service allowing customers to use PayPal to buy goods in stores was a "piece of s**t".
1Angry Birds,  no longer soaring so highAngry Birdswas the first genuinely massive brand to emerge in the iPhone and Android era of mobile gaming. Finnish developerRoviolaunched the first game in December 2009, and by the end of 2012 the company's titles were being played by 263 million people every month. In 2013, though, its growth stalled. Rovio's revenues had doubled in 2012 to £125.1m, but in 2013 increased only slightly, to £128.4m, while net profits halved.The latestAngry Birdstitle, racing gameAngry Birds Go!, has not been setting the app store charts alight either, certainly not compared with Rovio's emerging competitors.2Candy Crush Saga,  the new king of gamingIf Angry Birds has been dethroned as the biggest mobile gaming brand,Candy Crush Sagais probably the contender for its crown. By the end of 2013, 93&nbsp;million people were playing the sweet-matching puzzle every day: its publisher, King, said the game was played a billion times in December alone. The company reported revenues of £1.1bn in 2013, and this year went public on the New York stock exchange.Also riding high is one of Rovio's fellow Finnish firms,Supercell, which made £528.6m in 2013 from two mobile games: strategy gameClash of Clansand farming gameHay Day. Elsewhere, Japanese firmGungHo Onlinemade £945m in 2013, with 91% of that coming from a single mobile game, calledPuzzle &amp; Dragons.3Other birds are available  (and flappy)At its peak,Angry Birdswas something of a craze in the mobile world. In 2014, that role was fulfilled by another avian title:Flappy Bird. Created by Vietnamese developerDong Nguyenin 2013, it was a simple but brutally difficult game that involved tapping the screen to make a bird flap its wings and fly between pipes. In January, the free game went viral, was downloaded millions of times, reportedly earning Nguyen £29,600 a day from in-game ads.The pressure of his worldwide hit led Nguyen to removeFlappy Birdfrom the app stores, but it has been followed by a flock ofFlappy Bird"clones" – straight copies, plus games inspired by Nguyen's hit, with different heroes. One based on Miley Cyrus enjoyed its own run at the top of the app store charts. It was a sign that in the mobile world, a hit game can rise from nowhere to global prominence in a matter of days.4Free-to-play,  but pay to winCandy Crush Saga,Clash of Clans,Puzzle &amp; Dragons… these are the new kings of mobile play, along with games such asThe Simpsons: Tapped Out,The HobbitandModern War. What they all have in common is that they are "free to play" games: free to download and play, but making their money from in-app purchases of virtual items and currency. As much as 90% of the money spent on mobile games is now thought to come from in-app purchases; as a guide, research companies IHS and App Annie recently estimated that total mobile game spending reached £9.5bn in 2013.The argument for free-to-play is that it has made gaming more accessible: people can try a game and pay only if they enjoy it. However, they have plenty of critics: gamers worry that free-to-play games are simply systems designed to prod people into paying.5Some people are still buying  mobile gamesFree-to-play games are increasingly the dominant way to make money in the mobile world: last week, every one of the top 30 grossing iPhone games in the UK were free-to-play, for example. Yet some people are still paying upfront for games on smartphones and tablets.Minecraftis the obvious example: it has sold 21m copies of its mobile edition since 2011, while sticking to a £4.99 price with no in-app purchases.Meanwhile, Swedish developerSimogohas sold 235,000 copies of a title calledYear Walk, and 220,000 of the thrillerDevice 6, both beautifully crafted games that cost £2.49. This year, an iPhone and iPad game from UK developerustwocalledMonument Valleytopped App Store charts around the world, making back its development costs in its first week.6Mobile gaming is a  mainstream affairBefore iPhone and Android, research regularly showed that around 5% of mobile-phone owners were buying games for their devices. In 2014, it's a very different story: mobile gaming is mainstream. Research company eMarketer estimates that there are currently 20 million mobile gamers in the UK: 51% men and 49% women.Angry Birdswas one of the first games to benefit (and, indeed, drive) this change, since it appealed to a wide range of ages and gaming abilities.Candy Crush Sagahas pushed that on too: the average bus or train carrying commuters to or from work is now a moving amusement arcade of sweet-swappers.7Children and free-to-play  is a controversial subjectOne of the reasons the growth ofAngry Birdsstalled in 2013 was that Rovio was relatively slow to jump on the free-to-play bandwagon. Why? The fact thatAngry Birdsis a popular game (and also brand) for children was a big factor.The issue of children playing free-to-play games – and sometimes spending their parents' money on virtual items without their knowledge – is hugely sensitive for the games industry.In 2013, the UK's Office of Fair Trading launched an investigation into exactly this topic, producing a report outlining some of the "misleading commercial practices" that were aimed at "exploiting children's inexperience, vulnerability and credulity" by promoting in-app purchases.One difficulty is that many of the most popular mobile games –Angry Birds, Candy Crush SagaandClash of Clansincluded – are not specifically aimed at children. They just have a lot of under-18 players, and many parents either share their app-store payment passwords or have not changed their settings to prevent unauthorised purchases by their children.8Mobile gaming isn't just a threat to console game companiesNintendohas spent much of the past three years fending off questions from journalists and analysts about whether it has any plans to turn its big gaming brands (from Mario toPokémon) into mobile games for devices made by other companies.For now, the company is sticking with its refusal to make such a leap. Rivals Sony and Microsoft are taking a different approach, aiming to capitalise on the mainstream audience for mobile games. Both have launched iPhone/iPad and Android games based on some of their biggest brands, while it's not uncommon to see big new console games also offering companion apps for smartphones and tablets.9Mobile gaming is now making its way to TVMobile games are already played in the living room: many people are using their smartphones or tablets while watching television. But these games are making their way on to televisions too, as a direct challenge to the consoles. Apple's Apple TV and Google's Chromecast products both provide ways for people to control games on their mobile devices but play them on TV.Just as interesting, though, is a new generation of "micro-consoles" that connect to television screens to run games. The Android-basedOuyaraised £5.1m on crowdfunding site Kickstarter in 2012, although it is unclear how many units it has sold since.Amazon's new Fire TV set-top box – available only in the US for now – will also be able to download and run mobile-style games, while Apple and Google have both been rumoured to have deeper micro-console ambitions.10There's hope still for Angry Birds – including beyond gamesIfAngry Birdshad a less than spectacular 2013, it's because of a range of factors: among them more competition from free-to-play games and Rovio's caution in going free-to-play. But it's still a well-known brand that's about much more than games. Rovio is working on anAngry Birdsfilm, which will be released in 2016, and its Toons.TV network of children's cartoons (including its own) has been notching up views since its launch last year. The company is also making a great deal of money from toys and merchandise – 47% of its revenues in 2013 came from these licensed products rather than games.And Rovio also has ambitions in education: it has published a range of books and last September launched a scheme called Angry Birds Playground, which is an educational programme covering maths, science, music, language, arts and crafts, physical education and social interaction.Those birds aren't crashing back to Earth just yet.
Price £62,039MPG 28Top speed 145mphMindfulness is having a bit of a&nbsp;moment. You know, we should chew our food thoughtfully, gaze meditatively at tree blossom, appreciate the beauty and intricacy of human connection… Yadda yadda. Of course, in the way of most modern fads, it is simply a re-application of an ancient wisdom – in this case the Buddhist teaching ofsammã-sati–   the attentive awareness of the present moment. So, is there anything the Buddha can teach us about driving?Like many things we do every day, it's easy to take cars for granted. When was the last time you really thought about the act of driving? The power at your disposal, the almost surreal ability to change your surroundings with a blip of your right foot, the transcendental experience of being at one with a mechanical masterpiece? Probably not for a while, right?Well, I've just spent 24 hours giving myself a full-throttle lesson insammã-saticourtesy of Lotus's relaunchedEvora Sports Racer– and there can be few vehicles better equipped to help you hurtle along the path to enlightenment. Lotus has a reputation as a maker of drivers' cars and for more than 60 years it has been a class-leading manufacturer of sports cars. The old maxim that its vehicles were Lots Of Trouble Usually Serious is now dead and buried.Inside story: the racing cockpit of the Evora.Today, its vehicles put the divine act of driving front and centre, and in the Evora S that is almost to the exclusion of everything else. Rear visibility – none; rear seats – suitable for flatpacked children only; boot – baguette sized… But this mid-engined 3.5-litre V6 supercharged 2 plus 2 sports car delivers a phenomenal, memorable driving experience.Slide into the bucket seat and wrap your fingers around the chunky steering wheel, gaze down its wide bonnet between the twin arches of the front wheels, fire up the engine, slot the gearstick into first, feel your foot pressure the throttle… When you are in the grip of a Lotus it's hard to think about anything else.I drove it 560 miles up the spine of England and across the winding roads of Cumbria, past old hay barns and crumbling Wesleyan chapels, along sweeping lanes beneath menacing hills, and the live-in-the-moment joy of driving never ceased.The Evora was unveiled at the 2008 British Motor Show and almost instantly became the benchmark for ride and handling. There were teething problems, however – build quality was erratic and there were complaints about the naturally aspirated V6 engine and clunky six-speed gearbox. Since then Lotus has dealt with its snagging list and now the Evora is a genuine contender to undercut a basic Porsche 911. It's as fast, as aggressive and as exhilarating to drive. If you were able to let rip on a track you'd also be able to sample the Evora's DPM (Dynamic Performance Management) traction and stability systems.There are still a few irritants. The tiny back window coupled with the wide arches over the rear wheels, its "love handles", make this as hard  a car to park as you'll find. And flush, brushed-steel buttons on the dash are almost impossible to see while driving. But all these are quickly forgiven the moment you take to  the road and lose yourself in the everyday brilliance of mindful driving. Nirvana here we come.Time to write your car's AUTObiographyFull service history: Lucy Burnford. who hopes to transform the way we track our car's repairs.Lucy Burnford, 34, bought a secondhand car from a seemingly reputable dealer for a good price. After a few weeks, something strange started happening to the fuel gauge. She took it to a specialist who diagnosed the problem and told her the car needed a host of urgent repairs. The quote was £3,500.Had Lucy had access to all of the vehicle's history, it might well have flagged some urgent repairs advised to the previous owner that had not been addressed. Annoyingly, that information is "out there" somewhere – sitting redundant on a variety of dealer databases and garage records or as paperwork languishing in previous owners' drawers.The experience led her to launchMotoriety.co.uk– a "digital glove compartment" for anyone who owns a car. It enables them to document the full service history of their cars – adding an estimated 26% in value when they sell it. It has all sorts of administrative features to make life easier for motorists. There's a clever two-way rating and review service for garages and it alerts users to key dates – like when their car insurance and car tax needs renewing while saving them cash on insurance, servicing and repairs.In order to launch Motoriety Lucy wound down a successful marketing agency she started and ran for 12 years, which represented luxury global food and drink brands such as Grey Goose vodka. Now, instead of going to dinners with Sir Elton John, she's attending automotive conferences across the UK and talking tech and API integration!Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow himn on Twitter@MartinLove166
This summer, Facebook will present a paper at a computer vision conference revealing how it has created a tool almost as accurate as the human brain when it comes to saying whether two photographs show the same person – regardless of changes in lighting and camera angles.A human being will get the answer correct 97.53% of the time; Facebook's new technology scores an impressive 97.25%."We closely approach human performance," says Yaniv Taigman, a member of its AI team.Since the ability to recognise faces has long been a benchmark for artificial intelligence, developments such as Facebook's "DeepFace" technology (yes, that's what it called it)  raise big questions about the power of today's facial recognition tools and what these mean for the future.Facebook is not the only tech company interested in facial recognition. A patent published by Apple in March shows how the Cupertino company has investigated the possibility of using facial recognition as a security measure for unlocking its devices – identifying yourself to your iPhone could one day be as easy as snapping a quick selfie.Google has also invested heavily in the field. Much of Google's interest in facial recognition revolves around the possibilities offered by image search, with the search leviathan hoping to find more intelligent ways to sort through the billions of photos that exist online. Since Google, like Facebook wants to understand its users, it makes perfect sense that the idea of piecing together your life history through public images would be of interest, although users who uploaded images without realising they could be mined in this manner might be less impressed when they end up with social media profiles they never asked for.Google's deepest dive into facial recognition is itsGoogle Glass headsets. Thanks to the camera built into each device, the headsets would seem to be tailormade for recognising the people around you. That's exactly what third-party developers thought as well, since almost as soon as the technology was announced, apps such asNameTagbegan springing up. NameTag's idea was simple: that whenever you start a new conversation with a stranger, your Google Glass headset takes a photo of them and then uses this to check the person's online profile. Whether they share your interest in Werner Herzog films, or happen to be a convicted sex offender, nothing will escape your gaze. "With NameTag, your photo shares you," the app's site reads. "Don't be a stranger."While tools such as NameTag appeared to be the kind of "killer app" that might make Google Glass, in the end Google agreednotto distribute facial recognition apps on the platform,although some have suggested that is no more than a "symbolic" ban that will erode over time. That is to say, Google may prevent users from installing facial recognition apps per se on Glass but it could well be possible to upload images to sites, such as Facebook, that feature facial recognition. Moreover, there is nothing to prevent a rival headset allowing facial recognition apps – and would Google be able to stop itself from following suit?Not everyone is happy about this. US senator Al Franken has spoken out against apps that use facial recognition to identify strangers, going so far as to publish an open letter to NameTag's creators. "Unlike other biometric identifiers such as iris scans and fingerprints, facial recognition is designed to operate at a distance, without the knowledge or consent of the person being identified," he wrote. "Individuals cannot reasonably prevent themselves from being identified by cameras that could be anywhere – on a lamp post, attached to an unmanned aerial vehicle or, now, integrated into the eyewear of a stranger."To proponents of facial recognition, of course, this is precisely the point. Like the club doorman who knows you by name and can spot you in a busy crowd, facial recognition can make everything that bit more personal. In Steven Spielberg's 2002 sci-fi filmMinority Report, ads are made more personal by using facial recognition technology. As Tom Cruise's character walks down the street, he is bombarded with customised adverts for everything from new cars to alcoholic drinks. In 2014, a number of companies are already bringing these ideas to (digital) life. Late last year,Tesco announced plans to instal video screens at its checkouts around the country. These screens will use inbuilt cameras equipped with facial recognition algorithms to ascertain the age and gender of individual shoppers.Personal targeted advertsing in Spielberg's Minority Report starring Tom Cruise.A Californian startup called Emotient meanwhile focuses on the area of facial expression analysis. Incorporated into next-generation TVs by way of a webcam, this technology could potentially be used to monitor viewer engagement levels with whatever entertainment is placed in front of them. The answer to questions such as "how many times did your face register interest during a programme?" can then be fed back to television companies to help them make creative decisions concerning programming."It is time for a step-change in advertising," says Lord Sugar's son, Simon, chief executive ofAmscreen, which developed the OptimEyes technology behind Tesco's facial recognition screens. "Brands deserve to know not just an estimation of how many eyeballs are viewing their adverts, but who they are, too. Through our Face Detection technology, we want to optimise our advertisers' campaigns, reduce wastage and in turn deliver the type of insight that only online has previously been able to achieve."Putting aside the question of whether or not brands do "deserve" to know anything and everything about their customers, companies such as OptimEyes and Emotient are far from the creepiest application of facial recognition. In the US, the startupSceneTap(previously known as BarTabbers) has installed cameras in more than 400 bars; they use facial recognition to help bar-hoppers decide which locations to visit on a night out. SceneTap offers real-time information on everything from gender ratios to the average age of patrons. A patent filed by the company even suggests plans to link identified people with their social networking profiles to determine "relationship status, intelligence, education and income".Although the use of facial recognition tools is still relatively new in the consumer sector, that is where much of the visible innovation will take place over the coming years. "The stakes are lower, so companies are free to take more risks," says Kelly Gates, professor in communication and science studies at UC San Diego and author ofOur Biometric Future: Facial Recognition Technology and the Culture of Surveillance. "As a result, there are a lot of experiments in the commercial domain. So what if you identify the wrong person by accident when you're targeting an ad? It's not that big a deal. It happens all the time in other forms of advertising."Mohammed Atta (right) in the airport surveillance tape from Portland, Maine, 11 September 2001. Photograph: ReutersThere are, naturally, problems, and most relate to privacy concerns. Although privacy is an issue with every form of data mining, at least online the majority of information absorbed by companies is anonymised. Facial recognition, of course, is precisely the opposite. And since facial recognition takes place in public spaces, it is not even necessary for the person surveilled actively to "opt in" to the service.This, in turns, links to the subject of security, which for many companies and organisations is the ultimate application for facial recognition. Hitherto, most facial recognition research has been funded by governments interested in its potential for streamlining surveillance. That emphasis has only increased over the past decade, provoked by events such as the 9/11 attacks and the 7/7 London bombing in 2005.One of the most poignant images that came out of 11 September was a grainy frame of surveillance tape footage showing hijacker Mohamed Atta as he passed through an airport metal detector in Portland, Maine. Unlike the horrifying images of the collapse of the Twin Towers, this quieter picture was dramatic because of what it implied: that if only the right technology had been available, that day's tragic could have been averted.The idea that data mining algorithms have any place in helping us stop the next 9/11 or 7/7 has been criticised in some quarters. But there is no doubt that facial recognition plays an ever more important part in control and surveillance – both in England and overseas. On 5 April 2011, 41-year-old John Gass received a letter from the Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles informing him he should stop driving, effective immediately. A conscientious driver who had not received so much as a traffic violation in years, Gass was baffled. After several frantic phone calls, followed up by a hearing with registry officials, Gass learned his image had been flagged by a facial recognition algorithm, designed to scan through a database of millions of drivers' licences looking for potential criminal false identities. The algorithm had determined that he looked sufficiently like another Massachusetts driver that foul play was likely involved, so he received the automated letter. The RMV was unsympathetic, claiming it was the accused individual's "burden" to clear their name in the event of any mistakes, arguing that the pros of protecting the public outweighed the inconvenience to the wrongly targeted few."The dream is for governments to be able to set up networked cameras in public locations, capable of constantly searching through the faces of people who are photographed," says Xiaoou Tang, professor in the department of information engineering at the Chinese University of Hong Kong and one of the world's leading experts in facial recognition. "Once this is done, the images can then be matched to a database looking for suspects or potential terrorists, so that [pre-emptive] arrests can be made."Perhaps the most notable thing about our faith in facial recognition is what it says regarding belief in the inherent neutrality (or even objectivity) of such systems. "One of the things that troubles me is the idea that machines don't have bias," says Gates. Of course, in a real sense, they might not. Unless a programmer is personally prejudiced and decides deliberately to code that bias into whatever system he or she is working on, it is unlikely that a facial recognition algorithm will exhibit prejudice against certain groups for the reasons that a human might.But that doesn't mean that prejudice can't occur. It could be, for example, that facial recognition tools show a higher rate of recognition for men than for women and for individuals of non-white origin than for whites. (This has been shown to be true in the past.) A facial recognition system might not target a black male for reasons of overt prejudice in the way that a racist person might, but the fact that it could be more likely to do this than it is to target a white female means that the biased end result is no different.And while facial recognition algorithms may be neutral themselves, the databases they are tied to are anything but. Whether a database concerns criminal suspects or first-class travellers, they are still designed to sort us into categorisable groups."These databases are what define our social mobility and our ability to move through the world," says Gates. "Individual identification is always tied to social classification. It's always there for some specific purpose, and that's usually to determine someone's level of access or privilege. The ethical questions in facial recognition relate to those social hierarchies and how they're established.""I think it worries people because there's something very permanent about it," says Xiaoou Tang. "Even when you're talking about using your face or your fingerprints to unlock a phone, this is a password we can never change. We only have one, and once it's set up it's going to be your password for life."This isn't to suggest that facial recognition doesn't have its positives. As computer vision continues to get better over the coming months and years, we'll reap the benefits as computer users. The idea that we can take the giant, anonymous world we live in and transform it into a place as knowable as a small town is, at root, a utopian/naive one. "Ultimately we need to ask ourselves whether a world of ubiquitous automated identification is really one that we want to build," says Gates.It's important to understand the scale of change that is under way, because it is going to dictate what happens. Knowing about facial recognition, and how it is used by both governments and companies, is key to helping us face the future. No pun intended.Luke Dormehl is the author ofThe Formula: How Algorithms Solve All Our Problems (And Create More), published by WH Allen £20
If there was ever a game that begged to be framed and hung, it isMonument Valley. It is a beautiful piece of design, simple in form but visually sumptuous.Presented as puzzle-platformer, Monument Valley sees the player guide protagonist Ida through a series of isometric levels, each delivered like an individual page of an ornate interactive picture book. Most centre on architectural structures that can be rotated to create illusions of perspective, freeing Ida to defy gravity and space in order to uncover each stage's secrets. It is brief, as so many mobile games are, but equally so rich in detail, playing through once will likely not be enough.
It's been a long time since cricket fans got a version of their favourite sport in videogame form. Since EA's swansong inCricket 07, there have been few efforts worthy of mention and, of those,Ashes Cricket 2013was noteworthy only for being a complete disaster.Celebratory nods to the balcony all round, then asDon Bradman Cricketproves hugely playable as well as being an accurate simulation of the sport – a balance not always easy to achieve.While the controls are difficult to master at first, the amount of variety on offer, particularly when bowling, is hugely impressive. Spinners in particular can exploit variations of turn, bounce and flight to torment batsmen, just as Shane Warne did to hapless England sides for years.The game may be unlicensed, but pretty much anything can be edited and there is an eager community of players uploading custom teams and players. The developers also appear to be keen to listen to gamers as well; there is already a patch in the offing to tone down the fielders after complaints that players felt like they were taking on 11 Jonty Rhodes in every match.Equally, the career mode, in which the user takes control of a single player and tries to work their way up from a raw young county debutant to a test match superstar, adds a welcome spin to the format. While the difficulty curve ensures that this remains easier said than done, it has not been tried in a cricket game before, and will keep fans coming back for more.
Life is so unfair. Consider the humblenewt– which, in case you're wondering is an aquatic amphibian of the familySalamandridae. He has had such a bad press over the years. When PG&nbsp;Wodehouse, for example, was looking for a way of signalling that Bertie Wooster's chum Gussie Fink-Nottle was a feeble halfwit, he made him… a newt fancier.Worst of all, though, is the slur that newts supposedly have short attention spans. The truth is that, compared to technology stock "analysts",Salamandridaehave the intellectual stamina of Einstein. Witness, for example, the current stock market fluttering aboutTwitter'sfinancial results. Readers with long memories will recall the frenzy about Twitter when it launched itself on the stock markets last November. The shares opened at $26 and closed at $44.90, giving the company a valuation of around $31bn on the day. Egged on by those analysts, everyone wanted a slice of the Twitter action – despite the fact that no one had any real idea how the company might eventually make money.Since then the shares have steadily declined in value, but last Wednesday saw an acceleration in the downward slide: the shares dropped 12.6% after Twitter announced that it had had another loss-making quarter, even though the reported losses were less than some analysts had predicted. The thing that spooked the market seemed to be that thegrowthin Twitter users – and their use of the service – seemed to be slowing down. "We believe," saidone investment analyst, "[that] millions of consumers have sampled Twitter only to find a complex product with marginal relevance and value – a view we realise stands in sharp contrast to the fanatical loyalty the company enjoys among its core users."There are two paradoxical things about Twitter. The first is how so many people apparently can't get their heads around what seems like a blindingly simple idea – free expression, 140 characters at a time. I long ago lost count of the number of people who would come up to me on social occasions saying that they just couldn't see the point of Twitter. Why would anyone be interested in knowing what they had for breakfast? I would patiently explain that while some twitterers might indeed be broadcasting details of their eating habits, the significance of the medium was that it enabled one to tap into the "thought-stream" of interesting individuals. The key to it, in other words, lay in choosing whom to "follow". In that way, Twitter functions as a human-mediatedRSS feedwhich is why, IMHO, it continues to be one of the most useful services available on the internet.The second paradox about Twitter is how a service that has become ubiquitous – and enjoys nearly 100% name recognition, at least in industrialised countries – could become the stuff of analysts' nightmares because they fear it lacks a business model that will one day produce the revenues to justify investors' hopes for it.They may be right about the business model – in which case Twitter becomes a perfect case study in the economics of information goods. The key to success in cyberspace is to harness the power ofMetcalfe's Law, which says that the value of a network is proportional to the square of the number of its users. In layman's terms this means that the faster you can acquire users the quicker you reach the point of becoming the winner who takes all. And the quickest way to do that is to offer your services for free rather than charging people for them. But since it costs quite a lot to provide online services at massive scale, the free strategy can only be realised by raising venture capital and burning through it at a phenomenal rate.Which is exactly what Twitter has been doing. Last quarter, for example, it burned its way through $132.4m of investors' money, which is the difference between its operating costs and the $250.5m it got in sales. The existential questions for the company, therefore, are: whether it can get to the point where it is at least breaking even; and whether it can get there before it runs out of investors' cash.The thing that impales companies like Twitter on the horns of this dilemma is, ultimately, our reluctance to pay for online services. But therein lies another cruel paradox: if Twitter had charged users from the outset, then it would have grown in a sustainable way, covering its costs as it developed, and no one would be worried about its future. But by now it would have been eclipsed by a rival that expanded faster by offering comparable services for nothing. The first rule of cyberspace is: Metcalfe's Law rules OK.
Ubisoft's RPGChild of Lightoffers gamers the chance to play Aurora, a girl blessed with the power of flight. She has been drawn to Lemuria to face the Queen of Night and (perhaps one can see where this is going) only restoring the sun, moon and stars will defeat this blight. It's tempting to continue in rhyme – matching the game's dialogue and narration, entirely in verse, though sometimes as here, to awkward or strained effect – but words almost fail to describe how lovely this game is. Using a new engine, it presents a soft, watercolour world, straight from the fairytales it echoes. Although played in 2D, the size of the environments, coupled with Aurora's freedom of movement, makes it feel vast and rich with mystery. Combat is turn-based, with two party members fighting at once. Aurora's companion, Igniculus, a magical sprite, can shine light in the darkness, slowing enemy movement and allowing you to control the flow of battle. A nice edge of strategy, enhancing a beautiful and engaging title.
Conventional wisdom has it that sport is one of the greatest beneficiaries of 3D TV and intriguinglyMario Golf: World Tourproves that the same might now be said of certain games. The third-dimension is not the sole making ofWorld Tour, but it does provide a real boon to the sense of space on the fairways, resulting in a game that feels more tangible and thus more rewarding, although at its coreWorld Tour– the latest sports title set in Mario's universe – does remain a relaxed, uncomplicated golf title. Its controls are satisfying and a range of tournaments, cups and single and multiplayer modes means there's plenty to tackle, although the main campaign mode is rather fleeting. Elsewhere, despite considered integration into the lore of the character, a cast of babbling guides can make progress somewhat confusing. While clearly Mario really is at his best leaping between platforms, as a sportsman he does a fine job of spoiling a good walk here.
Thinking of having children? I can't recommend it. Not only does it make you tired and poor, but another thing I've noticed is that my house is now full of hideous plastic things. I'm not some kind of arty-farty minimalist aesthete, but hell, is all this crap necessary? Some of it even makes a&nbsp;noise (until – ha! – I sneak the batteries out).Look, this new one is so big it doesn't fit in the house. They've left it out front… What? It's for me? This&nbsp;week's test car? Well, it looks like a children's toy. I don't like it.It's a SsangYong, which as you know means double dragons in Korean. This is theKorando Sports, the twin cab pick-up. My two-year-old thinks it's brilliant. Of course he does: it's an amalgamation of all his toys and all his dreams on a scale he never could have imagined. His taste is not sufficiently developed to appreciate just how pig-ugly it is on the outside, how bland it is inside; he's not tall enough to bemoan the lack of legroom in the back. Anyway, he's not in the back, he's standing on the driver's seat, wheel between his hands (not to worry officer, we're not actually going anywhere at this point). "Pick-up truck! Pick-up truck!" he shouts, and then he discovers the horn. Daddy hasn't taken the battery out of this one.Later, on an actual journey (with him safely strapped up in the back, officer), he's less impressed with the suspension, turns pale and vomits his breakfast (banana porridge, mmm) around the inside of the cab. It is a very bouncy ride. To be fair, it would be less so with a&nbsp;load, but we don't have anything to take to the dump today, any building material to deliver, any rugged outdoor sports to pursue, so&nbsp;we're just going to Tesco. Again. In a hideous bouncy vehicle that now smells of banana and bile. Oh, and the steering is so light, it feels as if you're not connected to the road.In its favour, the Korando Sports is a bargain. Its load-carrying and towing capabilities may not match some of its rivals', but you won't find another 4x4 (with genuine off-road capability) to pull your caravan or your horsebox for less. Oh, and its workmanlike, wipeable interior means getting rid of the results of its bounciness isn't as hard as it could be. What banana porridge?Later we do find a use for the loadspace. This one has a hard cover. More children – nieces, cousins, etc – turn up. We shut them all in there, in the dark. They love it, for a while. And then they begin to bang and scream, on the way to the dump. Haha, only kidding officer, social services, everyone. But it does give me an idea for a dump run. A bit of a plastic clear-out, after bedtime.SsangYong Korando Sports EXPriceFrom £17,995Top speed107mphMax towing weight2,700kgLoad volume1,312 litresCombined fuel consumption37.7mpgCO2 emissions199g/kmEco rating5/10Cool rating5/10
Games out this week includeSingOn(PS3), a karaoke game you hire per night to gain access to its library of subtitled sing-alongs;Amazing Spider-Man 2(Xbox 360, PS3, PS4, PC, 3DS, Wii U) coincides with the film's release, ticking the "interactive entertainment" box in the movie's marketing plan and providing unwary players with £40- worth of heartbreaking mediocrity;Broken Sword 5: The Serpent's Curse – Episode 2(PC, Mac, iOS, Android) is the second chapter of this ageing adventure franchise; and ruthlessly tough but fairDark Souls II(Xbox 360, PS3, PC) is now available for PC. Finally, a new instalment of Activision's horribly addictive monster-collecting game,Skylanders Trap Teamhas been announced, which will include the ability to play as the game's villains. Even arch-baddie Chaos can be used to fight his own minions. It's due for release 10 October.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewWith their brightly coloured hats and denim dungarees, there isn't a golf course in the world that would welcome Mario and Luigi in real life. Fortunately, while Mario Golf is good at simulating the game's physics, it's a lot less po-faced, offering numerous game modes, power-up shots, RPG-style elements and familiar Nintendo mascots to play as and against that separate it from stultifying realism. There's nothing here that hasn't been done before in past Mario Golf outings, or that might be mistaken for innovation, but at least the wholesale recycling means that everything's been polished to perfection, the beautifully detailed courses and golfers underpinned by game mechanics that have been refined over 15 years of tradition. If you're looking for a solid game of golf, you won't be disappointed, but you won't find a new perspective on hitting small balls with long clubs here.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKHearthstone: Heroes Of Warcraft, PC, Mac &amp; iOSAlthough it uses characters from World Of Warcraft, Hearthstone is entirely separate. Instead, it's a collectible card game that pits you against another player or AI opponent on a chunky little board, where each play is depicted with sparkly graphical touches and hefty sound effects. Inspired by fellow collectible card battler Magic: The Gathering, this is simpler and more welcoming, but still manages to offer an array of strategic options that expands as you earn or buy cards for your deck. Although "free to play" is often shorthand for "surprisingly expensive to play", Hearthstone generously garnishes players with gold and new cards, and given patience and enough time you can scale the leaderboards without spending anything at all, building up decks from scratch through luck and tactical victories.Blizzard Entertainment, free
An American jury has ordered Samsung to pay $119.6m to Apple for smartphone patent violations, far less than Apple had sought and marking a big loss for the iPhone-maker in the latest round of the two companies’ worldwide litigation.During the month-long trial in a US federal court in San Jose, California, Apple accused Samsung of violating patents on smartphone features, including universal search. Samsung denied wrongdoing. On Friday, the jury found the South Korean smartphone-maker had infringed two Apple patents.Apple and Samsung have been fighting in courts around the world for three years. Jurors awarded the iPhone maker about $930m after a trial in San Jose in 2012, but Apple failed to persuade US district judge Lucy Koh to issue a permanent injunction against the sale of Samsung phones in the US.Some industry observers regard the ongoing legal dispute as an attempt by Apple to curtail the rapid growth of phones based on Google&apos;s rival Android software. Samsung was by far the largest adopter of the operating platform.“Though this verdict is large by normal standards, it is hard to view this outcome as much of a victory for Apple. This amount is less than 10% of the amount Apple requested, and probably doesn&apos;t surpass by too much the amount Apple spent litigating this case,” said Brian Love, assistant professor at the Santa Clara University law school.“Apple launched this litigation campaign years ago, with aspirations of slowing the meteoric rise of Android phone manufacturers. It has so far failed to do so, and this case won&apos;t get it any closer,” Love said.The latest case involves five Apple patents that were not at issue in the 2012 trial and that cover iPhone features such as slide-to-unlock and search technology. Apple had sought to ban sales of several Samsung phones, including the Galaxy SIII, and wanted a little more than $2 billion in damages.It is now up to Koh to decide if a sales ban is warranted, although legal experts say that is unlikely. “An injunction is extremely unlikely,” a professor at Rutgers Law School, Michael Carrier, said. “The Federal Circuit sets a high bar.”Responding to the verdict, Apple said the ruling reinforced its stance that “Samsung willfully stole our ideas and copied our products”. Samsung representatives were not immediately available for comment.The shortfall in damages for Apple led some experts to again question if patent litigation among the technology industry&apos;s biggest companies, which has been on the rise in recent years, was a viable strategy.Critics say patent litigation can be abused and can hinder innovation. Its advocates say litigation helps innovators protect their intellectual property and benefit from it.“What the verdict shows is that Apple&apos;s patents did not play a significant role in consumer decisions,” Carrier wrote. “One wonders if the endless smartphone patent wars, costing millions and putting the focus on the courtroom rather than the innovation lab, are worth it.”During the trial, Samsung argued that Apple had vastly exaggerated the importance of its patented iPhone features; Apple said Samsung could not have competed in the smartphone market without unfairly copying Apple’s flagship product.In the trial in San Jose, the jury found that Samsung had infringed two Apple patents. The judge had ruled before the trial that Samsung had infringed a third patent. The jury also found Apple had infringed one of Samsung’s patents.Samsung, which had asserted a $6 million damages’ claim, was awarded $158,400.During the trial, the two companies also sparred over how Google’s work on the software used in Samsung phones, Android, affects Apple’s patent claims.Google was not a defendant in the case, but in the trial Samsung pointed out that some of the features Apple claimed to own were actually invented by Google, and it called on a handful of Google executives to testify on its behalf.Apple said Google should not affect how the jurors analysed Samsung&apos;s liability, partly because Google had agreed to reimburse some of Samsung’s costs.After the verdict, Apple’s lawyers argued that the jurors had made a technical mistake in awarding damages to Apple on a patent covering one of Samsung’s phones. Koh ordered the jurors to return on Monday to resolve this issue, which could increase Apple&apos;s damages award by a few hundred thousand dollars.
Facebook may face legal troubles over its purchase of virtual reality (VR) firm Oculus, as US games firm ZeniMax claims that it owns key parts of the technology.ZeniMax is the former employer of John Carmack, the gaming legend who developed Doom and was hired to much acclaim by Oculus as chief technology officer in August 2013. In letters sent by ZeniMax to Oculus and Facebook, the firm claims that Carmack shared its intellectual property (IP) with Oculus, both before and after he joined the company.Carmack, though, seems unhappy about the manoeuvring, and has tweeted to distance himself from it .The Wall Street Journal&apos;s Liz Hoffman and Reed Albergottireport ZeniMax&apos;s allegationthat it was its IP which propelled Oculus into the big leagues, and put it in the position to be acquired by Facebook.The dispute dates to 2012, when Carmack was working for ZeniMax subsidiary ID Software. Carmack contacted Oculus founder Palmer Luckey, and received a prototype headset from the firm, which he demonstrated in modified form at that year&apos;s E3 convention;in one video from August&apos;s Quakecon, Carmack talks about the extent to which his software helped get Oculus working.&quot;I was heading down almost the same route on there. I was cobbling some things together myself,&quot; Carmack said at Quakecon. &quot;I ran into Palmer [Luckey] and he had basically built something probably better than something I would have done if I had put it together myself. So I&apos;m like, OK, I can abandon work on all of these projects and this is the platform.&quot;&quot;Mostly as a software guy, I want something to write software for,&quot; he continued. &quot;It&apos;s fun to tinker with the hardware, but I&apos;d really just as soon have someone else do that. It&apos;s only in cases where I can&apos;t see someone else doing the right thing that I find the need to make something happen myself.&quot;ZeniMax began talking with Oculus about compensation for this work in August 2012, the Journal reports.But Carmack seems unhappy about the moves. Since the news broke,he has tweeted that&quot;No work I have ever done has been patented. Zenimax owns the code that I wrote, but they don&apos;t own VR&quot; and lateradded&quot;Oculus uses zero lines of code that I wrote while under contract to Zenimax.&quot;In September 2012, Oculus closedits Kickstarter campaignhaving raised $2.5m. Eighteen months later, the firm sold to Facebook for $2bn.ZeniMax itself has little public profile, but the company&apos;s subsidiaries include Carmack&apos;s ID Software, which developed the Doom and Quake series, and Bethesda, developer and publisher of the Elder Scrolls and Fallout games. It is privately held, the largest of its sort in the US video games industry.•Oculus: Facebook buys virtual reality gaming firm for $2bn
On a low stage, a young man examined a Rubik’s Cube. Around him, an audience stood, precariously, on tables and chairs, or peered down from skyboxes. In one fluid motion, he activated a timer on the table before him and his fingers disappeared in a blur of activity. When he set the puzzle down and stopped the timer, just seconds later, the audience erupted, nearly drowning out the announcer: &quot;Feliks with a 7.95!&quot;Feliks Zemdegs had been here before. In 2011, when he was 15 years old, he traveled to Bangkok from his native Melbourne to attend the biennial World Rubik’s Cube Championship for the first time. The year before, he had become the first person to solve the puzzle in fewer than 10 seconds on average. As a result, he was something of a celebrity, at least in a certain world. On the online forums where competitive Rubik’s Cube solvers congregated, he had beencompared to Usain Bolt. In Bangkok, at the Championship, he was asked for autographs and pictures. And, at first, he seemed ready to justify his fame. In the early heats, he blew past the field. But, in the finals, his nerves betrayed him.Now, two years later, in Las Vegas, Zemdegs exhaled and closed his eyes. Two solves down, three to go.When, in the spring of 1974, Ernő Rubik, a Hungarian professor of design, invented his eponymous cube, he had no idea that it would become one of the world’s best-selling toys. Nor did he envision that it would impact fields as diverse as science, art, and design – the subject of &quot;Beyond Rubik’s Cube&quot;, an exhibit at the Liberty Science Center, in Jersey City, New Jersey, that opened 26 April to celebrate the puzzle’s 40th anniversary. And he certainly couldn&apos;t have imagined that, one day, his puzzle would be at the center of a competitive sport in which the top performers can re-solve it in less time than it takes to read this sentence aloud.A Google doodle celebrating the invention of the Rubik's Cube Photograph: /PRThe first Rubik’s Cube competitions began in the early 1980s and were largely a promotional affair that vanished with the collapse of the initial fad for the puzzle. But in the late 1990s and early 2000s, the Internet allowed hobbyists around the world to find each other and run competitions of their own. More than 1,700 competitions have taken place in 66 countries since the 2004 founding of theWorld Cube Association, a governing body modeled after FIFA, the arbiter of international soccer. (Unlike, soccer, however, there is no qualification for any of these tourneys, including the World Championship: anyone can sign up.)Most cubers, as competitors are known, are, as you might expect, young, male, and have an aptitude for math and science. And yet, as Mats Valk, the Dutch teenager who currently holds the world record for a single solve –5.55 seconds– insisted at the most recent World Championship last summer, “If you look at the top, there are actually, like, no nerds at all. Like, me, Feliks, Cornelius – we are not nerds.”And it’s true that Valk, Zemdegs and Cornelius Dieckmann, an 18-year-old from Berlin, all appear to be well-adjusted teens. Valk, who is tall and lanky with sandy blond hair, has an easy smile and outgoing demeanor. Zemdegs, whose dark hair and angular features recall the tennis player Novak Djokovic, recently entered Melbourne University, one of the most prestigious schools in Australia, where he is pursuing degrees in engineering and business. Dieckmann, who plays classic rock and blues guitar, has a passion for British and American fiction, and would probably fit right in at a party in Brooklyn.But hand one of them a Rubik’s Cube and you will see a seemingly normal person transform into a being capable of prodigious feats. Jeannine Michaelsen, a German TV presenter, came to the 2013 World Championship to film asegment for SportXtreme, a newsmagazine produced by ZDF, one of the country’s most popular channels. “We all think, ‘Oh, this looks amazing,’” she said of the sports she typically covers, like Base jumping and big wave surfing. “But, of course, we know they can do it. But this? If you see this in person, it’s, like, ‘How the fuck do you do that?’”The World Cube Association, the governing body of speedsolving, speedcubing or cubing, as it is variously known, requires competitors to attempt five solves, the best and worst of which are eliminated, and the other three times are averaged to make sure that nothing is decided by chance. Before each solve, puzzles are scrambled according to a computer program, to ensure that all competitors begin from the same positions. Zemdegs had likely never seen the particular scramble he had just undone: any single Rubik’s Cube can be arranged in more than 43 quintillion different ways.In real time, what a cuber like Zemdegs or Valk is doing is almost impossible to make out. At times, it looks like the pieces fall into place as they shake the puzzle vigorously. The blur is due in part to advances in puzzle technology; hardly anyone actually uses a Rubik’s Cube in competition anymore. Most cubers employ models designed in China in which the interior mechanism that Rubik originally designed has been revamped to minimize friction. (Occasionally, faster puzzles pose problems. An overzealous turn can cause them to misalign or, in extreme cases, explode.)When Rubik invented his cube, he had little idea how to solve it. No matter which way he turned the puzzle, the colors seemed only to get more mixed up. Still, he refused to believe that it couldn’t be solved. &quot;It was a code I myself had invented!&quot; he wrote in an unpublished manuscript, quoted in a 1986 Discover profile. &quot;Yet I could not read it.&quot;Eventually, Rubik began to develop sequences of moves that would allow him to rearrange a few pieces of the puzzle at a time. First, he aligned the corners. Then, he attacked the edges. After about a month, he could resolve the puzzle at will.Rubik’s solution – known, for obvious reasons, as the &quot;corners-first&quot; method – is only one of several ways to solve the cube. You can assemble it layer by layer, like a baker putting together a cake. Or you can build blocks of matching pieces and then connect them, as if you were playing with Legos. The most popular method among cubers is an advanced layer by layer method called the Fridrich Method, afterJessica Fridrich, a professor of engineering at Binghamton University and the 1982 Czech National Champion, who helped to develop it. It&apos;s known alternatively as CFOP, an acronym for the steps involved: cross, first two layers, orientation of the last layer and permutation of the last layer.&quot;It’s the same house, perhaps,&quot; Fridrich told me last year, &quot;but with completely different furniture.&quot; She devised all of her algorithms – sequences of moves with a discrete effect on the puzzle – by hand. Today, cubers can generate dozens of alternatives using computers. Fridrich laments that so many cubers now use the same method – &quot;It’s all been optimized to death,&quot; she quipped – but is astounded by the speed of her heirs. &quot;I always thought that the limits of speedcubing were, like, at 13 seconds,&quot; she said. &quot;And what’s happening today is just nothing short of a miracle.”A Rubik's Cube solved using the CFOP methodThe biggest factor in the speed of today’s cubers has more to do with practice than anything else. Wayne Gretzky, the greatest hockey player of all time, could famously predict where the puck would travel before it arrived – a skill he attributed not to innate talent, but simply to his father’s coaching. The same principle applies in cubing. Having solved the puzzle so many times, elite cubers like Valk, Zemdegs, and Dieckmann are able to visualize what it will look like several steps in advance – an ability known in the sport as &quot;look ahead&quot;– so that, once the solve begins, they rarely have to pause to figure out their next move. &quot;Look ahead is the biggest part,&quot; Dieckmann says. &quot;It’s even more important than turning fast.&quot;Looking ahead requires enormous concentration, and can be easily derailed by anxiety. So cubers have come up with various ways to calm their nerves. Some don the sort of industrial-grade earmuffs worn by airport personnel. Andy Smith, a teenager from New Jersey, carries a handkerchief – on which his mother embroidered a Rubik’s Cube – to wipe the sweat from his hands before he begins solving.When it works, though, look ahead has an uncanny effect, allowing cubers to link moves so seamlessly that their reflexes seem superhuman. On average, CFOP requires 56 twists to solve the Rubik’s Cube. During the fifteen seconds in which competitors are allowed to inspect the puzzle, most are able to plan out a handful of moves. The best never stop looking ahead, and can sustain speeds of nearly ten turns per second. Look ahead demands such concentration that, some cubers say, it alters their perception of time. “In an ideal solve,” says Stefan Huber, the top-ranked cuber in Austria, &quot;you don’t have the feeling that you were turning fast. You were just turning at a comfortable pace, and, in the end, sometimes I have the experience, when I watch the video, I have the feeling, &apos;Oh, it really looked fast.&apos; But I didn’t have the feeling that it was that fast.&quot; Hardly any of this is conscious. &quot;I don’t know how to explain it,&quot; Zemdegs says, &quot;but you don’t, you don’t really think. You just do it.&quot;&quot;Oh that’s shit, that’s shit,” said one cuber of Zemdegs’ last solve – 9.12 seconds, his slowest of the finals at the championship in Las Vegas. But it didn’t matter. Zemdegs had won the title, with an average of 8.18 seconds.Zemdegs was immediately surrounded by a scrum, while Valk, who came in second, stood off to the side. Although, in some ways, victory was beside the point – for many of the nearly 600 cubers in attendance, a record, the World Championship was more about hanging out with other cubers, some of whom they had never met offline. But Valk was nevertheless disappointed. On his final solve, he had been penalized two seconds because his puzzle had been misaligned by slightly more than the allowable limit.Still, before Zemdegs accepted his prizes – $3,000 for winning, and hundreds more for the other contests in which he had placed, including solving the puzzle one-handed – Valk seemed to cheer up. In the makeshift green room, moments before taking the stage, he had given encouragement to a pale and nervous Zemdegs.&quot;We can do this,&quot; he said. &quot;No, you can do this. Seriously, you deserve to win.&quot;
Announced this week to a frenzy of games media coverage, the latest title in the Call of Duty series is hitting stores in November. But if you don&apos;t play games – and have children who do – what should you make of this 100m-selling franchise? What&apos;s it about and is it completely, horribly violent?Here are a few pointers for those who are going to be asked to buy Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, but aren&apos;t sure what it is they&apos;ll be bringing home.What is Call of Duty?Call of Duty is a series of &quot;first-person shooter&quot; (or FPS) video games – so called because the action is portrayed from the perspective of the player. The series began in 2003, and the first three titles were set during the second world war. However, the fourth instalment, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, moved the narrative to a near-future setting and began to explore themes of global terrorism and armed revolution.The games have sold more than 100m copies so far and there is a new title every year. However, they don&apos;t all feature the same scenarios and characters: Activision has introduced different sub-strands of the main series, produced by different development studios. Alongside the Call of Duty: Modern Warfare series, there is also Call of Duty: Black Ops, which is set during the Cold War. Last year saw Call of Duty: Ghosts, set in a post-apocalyptic future.Every game in the series features a single-player &quot;Campaign&quot; mode, which is a story split into a series of missions. There is also a multiplayer mode in which groups of participants meet online to compete in various types of competitive matches.What does Advance Warfare add?Not much is known about the latest title, but the game&apos;s publisher, Activision, is likely to updatethe teaser sitesoon. It seems the game is set in the near-future where a powerful private military contractor has decided to use its army against the US Government. In the trailer, soldiers are depicted wearing armoured exoskeletons, fighting alongside robotic vehicles and drones.The lead anatgonist is being played by actor Kevin Spacey who has lent his voice and visual likeness to the game. Here is the official trailer:Call of Duty: Advanced WarfareWhen is the latest title coming out?The next game, Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, is out on 4 November and is expected to release on PlayStation 4, Xbox One and PC. Versions for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 are also likely. It will cost around £50, although you may find it cheaper online or in supermarkets which heavily discount the price of major game releases.Will it have an 18 age certificate?The last title in the series, Call of Duty: Ghosts, has a PEGI 16+ certificate, but previous titles carried an 18+ rating. PEGI is the European age rating system for Europe, it took over games certification from the BBFC a number of years ago. Every game released in Europe must carry a PEGI rating, and each rating comes with information about the content you are likely to see in a game. You can visitthe PEGI websiteto find out more about the ratings system, or search for individual games – the site will tell you the sorts of things you can expect to see, including violent and sexual content.How violent will it be?This is a shooter, so there will be almost constant gunfire – and injuries from gunfire – which are realistically depicted. Like most modern action games, Call of Duty titles also features &quot;cinematic&quot; sequences – non-interactive scenes which work like short animated movies – showing vital plot points and moving the story along. These often include graphic violence. Previous Call of Duty titles have shown torture sequences, others have shown characters being stabbed in the neck, or shot from close range. Call of Duty is certainly not alone in this respect – other shooters like Battlefield and Killzone feature similar scenes. Essentially, anything you&apos;ll see in an adult-rated action movie you will see in adult-rated action games.Why does my 14-year-old son like it so much?Like all first-person shooter games, Call of Duty titles are built around very fast-paced action and highly choreographed armed combat. In a sense they combine the cinematic visuals and excitement of a Hollywood action film with our seemingly innate interest in role-playing violence and violent encounter. Call of Duty is really a digital extension of playground games like &quot;cowboys and indians&quot; or &quot;cops and robbers&quot; – they provide a safe space in which participants can explore violence and aggression. The games also allow players to &quot;rank-up&quot;, unlocking new weapons and items as they get better, so there is a motivation to keep playing and keep improving. This &quot;feedback loop&quot; of action and reward is a staple element of video game design.Should I be concerned about young children playing 18-certificate games?Many parents make the mistake of thinking that age certificates on games are just a guide and that all games are suitable for children. This is not the case; just like movies, modern games depict scenes that are intended for adults only. When your child asks for a game, look at the box on Amazon or in the shop. If it has an 18 certificate it will contain graphic violence, drug use or sexual content – just like an 18 certificate film.How do I stop my teenager playing an 18-rated game?There&apos;s obviously a lot of pressure on teenagers to do the things their friends are doing, and Call of Duty has a huge fanbase in this age group. Of course, if your child isn&apos;t earning their own money, you can limit their exposure to 18-certificate games by not buying them (although they can always play at a friend&apos;s house – or if they have a PC, illegally download a pirated copy of the game).All modern game consoles, smartphones and Windows PCs also come with parental controls which allow you to block your children from playing age-restricted titles. &quot;There are lots of elements you can control,&quot; says Andy Robertson, a freelance family gaming expert. &quot;It&apos;s not just about being Draconian over what children can play, it&apos;s about controlling who they can talk to online, when they spend money, if they can watch videos and how long they play. It&apos;s a good idea to sit down as a family and have a conversation about setting up the controls, deciding on the limits together; if kids are given a say in the process they&apos;ll feel more involved and it&apos;s not just about Mum and Dad stopping them playing.&quot;When you buy a new machine it is advisable to set yourself up as the main account and to configure parental controls for all other users. The set-up process can be complicated, but Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony all have information on parental controls on their websites. It&apos;s also worth checking out theAskAboutGameswebsite, a resource for parents interested in, or concerned about, games. This has a section which explains how the parental control systems work on most major platforms.Are games like Call of Duty antisocial?Not necessarily. The popular image is of teenagers sitting alone in their bedrooms playing for hours, and although that no doubt happens, most first-person shooters encourage players to meet up online and play together. It&apos;s possible to set-up teams and compete in leagues against other sides from all over the world, and players often use online games as a social venue, chatting to each other on headphone mics while playing. Indeed, games like Call of Duty have provided a social lifeline to isolated youngsters.Are the games actually any good?That is the source of much debate among gamers. The titles have usually reviewed reasonably well, with the first two Call of Duty: Modern Warfare titles scoring highest – I would argue the first Modern Warfare is a genuine classic, which introduced key new features to the genre. However, the reviews aggregation site Metacritic has shown thatcritical opinion is turning against the series– Call of Duty: Ghosts has a Metacritic score average of around 70%, which is pretty poor for a major release.There&apos;s no doubt the titles have mass appeal – the series has sold well over 100m copies worldwide, and the latest instalments usually all reach the 20m sales mark. The games are enjoyable in the same way as a Michael Bay movie; easy to get into, slick and compelling.However, there are plenty of players who despise the series – who feel that it rigidly adheres to a recipe that never changes and is out of date. Others despair at the online community, which seems to be dominated by teenage boys, who often shout abuse at each other during games. However, this is the same with many multiplayer shooters, and can be avoided if you chose to play only against close friends on a private server.Call of Duty is very much seen as a mainstream franchise – the popcorn movie of the gaming world. Some players are happy with that, some aren&apos;t.• Call of Duty: Ghosts – review• Call of Duty: Black Ops 2 – reviewDoes Call of Duty teach my child anything?Well, the first three titles in the series featured genuine WW2 weapons, military divisions and battles, and were, to some extent, historically accurate. The games included combat on various fronts throughout Europe and provided information on military tactics, geography and the different roles of various military forces. The Modern Warfare titles have been influenced by global terrorism and ultra-nationalist movements, but are no more or less accurate than most big budget action movies. The Black Ops series is interesting in its analysis of the Cold War, Vietnam and the Kennedy assassination.The newest titles are all reasonably accurate in their depiction of current military hardware – although much of this has come through the controversial licensing of real-life weapons. They often use current affairs to form the under-pinning of their stories. Indeed, the games&apos; developers have often sought to highlight the authenticity of their narratives, sometimes with short online documentaries. For Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which is about a rogue private military contractor, Activision has commissioneda mini-documentary about real-life PMCs.But let&apos;s be honest, this is not a piece of educational software.Are there any decent female characters in it?There have been no playable female characters in the series until Call of Duty: Ghosts. This has been a major criticism, not just of Call of Duty, but of the shooter genre in general. Others have highlighted the negative depiction of middle eastern, Asian and eastern European characters.Has there been any research into the effect of games on teenage brains?There have been hundreds of studies into the effects of video game violence on children and teenagers. Many of these show a short-term rise in aggressive behaviour after playing for extended periods, but so far no major study has shown significant long-term links between playing violent games and participating in real-life violence. It would be very hard to prove such a link as so many other psychological, social and emotional factors play a role in violent crimes.The US gaming site Kotaku hasa handy collection of video game violence studieswith a brief guide to their conclusions.Should I limit the number of hours my child plays each day?It is advisable to limit the time your teenage child spends playing games – if only because gaming can get in the way of other activities like school work – and sleeping. Moving the games console from the bedroom into the living room or another communal area of the house is an effective way to monitor the time your children spend playing. This will also allow you to see and experience the games for yourself. In fact, it&apos;s a good idea to spend half an hour playing the latest game that your children are interested in – preferably with them.&quot;Parents don&apos;t often appreciate that kids actually want to talk to them about games - particular younger children,&quot; says Robertson. &quot;On ourFamilyGamerTV YouTube channel, I post a lot of &apos;Let&apos;s Play&apos; videos where I play with my kids, and loads of the comments are along the lines of, &apos;I wish my parents would play with me like this&apos;. It&apos;s heartbreaking in a way.&quot;• What is the link between violent video games and aggression?• Claims that &apos;video games lead to violence&apos; lead to violence
Microsoft has included Windows XP in a security update to fix a flaw in its Internet Explorer browser that left users vulnerable to attack - despite saying there would be no more free fixes for the outdated platform.The 12-year-old software was discontinued from Microsoft&apos;s automatic updates in April, as the technology giant attempted to encourage users to upgrade to newer versions of its operating system.But with so many individual and business users still running XP - including the UK government, which paid millions of pounds for a one-year extension to get security updates - Microsoft has included XP in the update and provided it free to the hundreds of millions of users.Microsoft group manager of response communications Dustin Childs said: &quot;We have made the decision to issue a security update for Windows XP users. Windows XP is no longer supported by Microsoft, and we continue to encourage customers to migrate to a modern operating system, such as Windows 7 or 8.1. Additionally, customers are encouraged to upgrade to the latest version of Internet Explorer, IE 11.&quot;Microsoft decided to issue the update &quot;based on the proximity to the end of support for Windows XP,&quot; wrote Adrienne Hall, Microsoft&apos;s general manager for Trustworthy Computing in ablogpost. &quot;The reality is there have been a very small number of attacks based on this particular vulnerability and concerns were, frankly, overblown.&quot;But the security consultancy FireEyesaidthat it had seen a number of attacks exploiting the flaw, including some by state-sponsored hackers. &quot;In addition to previously observed attacks against the Defense and Financial sectors, organization in the Government- and Energy-sector are now also facing attack,&quot; said Dan Caselden and Xiaobo Chen.The security issue was discovered earlier this week, with Microsoft issuing a statement via its website explaining how hackers could gain access to a user&apos;s computer and all its settings by drawing them to malicious websites via links sent in emails or other messages.According to Microsoft, any successful hacker could have gained full access to the victim&apos;s user account should a malicious link be followed, meaning the hacker would be able to change passwords and access any data linked to that account, including email and other personal data.The decision to update the XP version of Internet Explorer, which is a key element of XP and often exploited by hackers to break into the wider system, raises the question of whether Microsoft will be able to ignore future threats that surface. The decision to release the patch for free also calls into question the commercial contracts that governments and big businesses have negotiated to keep special cover for XP - on the understanding that they would not otherwise be available.Hall said: &quot;The security of our products is something we take incredibly seriously, so the news coverage of the last few days about a vulnerability in Internet Explorer has been tough for our customers and for us.&quot;We believe, and take a huge amount of pride that, among widely used browsers, IE is the safest in the world due to its secure development and ability to protect customers, even in the face of cybercriminals who want to break it.&quot;Even though Windows XP is no longer supported by Microsoft and is past the time we normally provide security updates, we&apos;ve decided to provide an update for all versions of Windows XP, today. We made this exception based on the proximity to the end of support for Windows XP.&quot;The flaw comes just weeks after the discovery of the Heartbleed bug - a two-year-old weakness in the encryption used to protect sensitive data such as passwords when they are sent between computers and servers, which is still being tackled with patches to fix affected websites.•Ask Jack: how can I use Windows XP safely now it&apos;s no longer supported?
Facebook users in India have been tricked into hacking their own Facebook accounts – while attempting to hack their friends accounts.The scam claimed to offer a tool to find out the Facebook passwords of friends, but instead compromised the user’s account by tricking them into using some code that takes control of their account and exposes their friends’ data in the process.“What really happens when you paste this code into your browser console window is that a series of actions are performed using your Facebook account without your knowledge.&quot;Behind the scenes, your account is used to follow lists and users, and give likes to pages in order to inflate the follower and like counts defined by the scammers,” explained Satnam Narang, a security response manager for Symantecin a blog post.&apos;Facebook hacking&apos;The scam employs an instructional video explaining “Facebook Hacking”, which linked to a Google document that contains some code.The code allows users to see friends’ Facebook passwords, according to the scammers, with the instructions attempting to convince users to paste the code into their browser console window – a feature of most browsers that allows developers to inspect and modify elements of a website and how it is presented in the browser.The instructions explain that the code will take two hours to work, belaying immediate suspicion when nothing happens to reveal the passwords of their friends.In reality the code performs actions behind the scenes using the would-be hacker’s Facebook account, including following certain users and liking pages. No doubt the scammers are being paid to artificially inflate the follower or like counts of some users and pages.&apos;Playing off the curiosity of your friends&apos;The code also attempts to attract new targets through social engineering on Facebook.“Your account is also used to tag the names of all your friends in the comment section of the original post. This is done to help the scam spread further, playing off the curiosity of your friends, who may visit the post to find out more and hopefully follow the instructions as well,” explains Narang.The scam uses a variation of what is called self cross-site scripting (self-XSS), where a user is tricked into entering code into their browser’s console window that performs certain actions on their behalf.&apos;Allow my account to be hijacked if I paste malicious JavaScript&apos;Facebook is aware of the scam and has tried to discourage users from falling for it, employing a warning page that blocks scripted actions with an option to manually “allow my account to be hijacked if I paste malicious JavaScript”.“There is a popular scam going around that claims the user will gain some benefit (illicit access to someone else&apos;s account, some new Facebook feature, etc) by pasting some piece of JavaScript into the browser&apos;s console,” said Facebookon its JavaScript console warning page.“The code usually posts the same scam on other people&apos;s walls, and subscribes the user to pages controlled by the attacker – but it could do much worse things. To avoid this, the console is now gently disabled in some browsers,” Facebook continues.&apos;If it sounds too good to be true…&apos;This type of scam is not new, and was first seen circulating around Facebook in 2011. This scam variant was first seen at the beginning of the year, modified from the original code that saw great success with between 50,000 to 100,000 users falling victim.The new scam originates from India, according to Symantec, based by the locations of pages and profiles users are tricked into liking as part of the scam.Users who have been affected by the scam should use their activity log on Facebook to track the errant likes and friending, removing those that the scam artificially created and any post that could spread the scam further.“Always remember that if it sounds too good to be true, it is. Being able to hack someone’s Facebook password by just pasting some code into your browser sounds way too easy and should signal that this is a scam,” concludes Narang.• Facebook’s F8 conference:what do regular Facebook users need to knowabout the social network’s biggest event
The end of support for Windows XP is prompting me to pension off my old PC, a Dell Dimension 3100. I was intending to go for another Dell desktop, such as an Inspiron 3000 or the OptiPlex model which you recommended recently. However, I rather like the idea of buying a product put together by a small company, and have read good things about Chillblast. It claims to use high quality parts in building PCs and seems to offer a good warranty. I&apos;m aware, of course, that one drawback is the risk that a small concern may go bust, in which case the warranty will be of little use! The desktop I am considering is theChillblast Prestige i5 4570I.BenThere are different types of PC buyer, and therefore different ways of acquiring a Windows PC. The most popular approach is to buy a standard machine of the sort sold in large volumes by big companies such as Lenovo, HP, Dell, Asus and Acer. These industry giants can buy parts in large volumes at low prices, and manufacture their machines on production lines in automated factories. This usually means they can offer low prices, and ordinary PC consumers tend to buy on price.The major PC manufacturers are also able to provide nationwide or even global service and support, and as you appreciate, they are unlikely to go bust. Big PC manufacturers do disappear – Gateway is one example – but it&apos;s often because they get taken over. Compaq was bought by HP, which still uses its brand name, while IBM sold its PC division to Lenovo. Guarantees survived.The people who buy from big suppliers are generally not too fussy about the parts used in their PCs, except for the processor and operating system. For example, they may want a 1TB drive rather than a 500GB drive, but probably won&apos;t be concerned about the exact specification, rotation speed, or even the brand name.Fortunately, there&apos;s another kind of buyer: the sort of person who cares not just about the processor but about the processor architecture, the socket design, the type of cooling fan it uses, and the type of paste used to stick the fan to the chip. I say fortunately because these are the people who run benchmark comparisons and keep the manufacturers reasonably honest. Some of them become famous, such as Thomas Pabst fromTom&apos;s Hardwareor Anand Lal Shimpi, whose words I read – or at least skim – atAnandTech.This type of buyer tends not to write to Ask Jack for advice, but I send anyone who leans in this direction to thePC Part Pickerwebsite. This caters for people who build their own PCs. It lets you pick your parts, ask for advice, and compare builds. When you&apos;ve decided on your final specification, PC Part Picker makes it easy to order all the components at the best available prices.People who take this approach obviously work to a budget, but they&apos;re trying to pick the best parts for the money. Their PCs will usually come out a bit more expensive than ones built from the cheapest parts, but they think it&apos;s worth it. Also, self-assembled PCs don&apos;t come with third-party support, but if you built it, then you should be able to repair it.Small companies like Chillblast come somewhere between these two extremes. They care about the parts they use, and provide much more choice than any of the mass-market suppliers. As manufacturers, they can probably get better deals than individuals, so they can be reasonably competitive on price. But most of them don&apos;t have automated production lines, and many of them sell PCs that are hand built by a single individual. This is much like building your own PC, but with the benefits that come from better tools and much more experience. (If you assembled PCs all day for a few weeks, I&apos;d expect you to be good at it.)It&apos;s a pretty scary business. Historically, PCs have got cheaper, and margins tighter, but the cost of support has increased. A company making a 30-40 percent margin on a £2,500 desktop had £750 to £1,000 to cover costs, including support. A company making 5-10% on a £500 desktop only has £25 to £50. A &quot;support incident&quot; could well wipe out your profit. A manufacturer shipping you a pallet of duff components could wipe out your business. I have a lot of respect for people who can make it work over the long term.Comparing pricesI have no personal knowledge of Chillblast, and I have never used one of their PCs. However, I&apos;m impressed by the options the company offers on the Prestige i5 4570I. This includes three different types of Core i5-4570 processor, a choice of coolers, fans and thermal paste, five graphics cards, eight sound cards, six hard drives, five different power supplies, and so on. While the base model is attractively priced at £526.80 (not including a screen, keyboard or mouse), I expect the average buyer spends quite a bit more. This may be where Chillblast makes its money. I&apos;d certainly add a graphics card and increase the 500GB drive to 1TB -- for my purposes, not yours.If you were a professional video editor, photographer or designer, or if you really needed a fast rig for gaming, then it would make sense to take an interest in this stuff. However, you&apos;ve been surviving on a 2006-ishDell Dimension 3100running Windows XP, so your needs must be modest -- or you are very patient. (If you have been running XP SP3 in 512MB instead of 4GB, you may qualify for a sainthood.) You don&apos;t really need a custom-built PC, and almost any Dell, HP or similar machine running Windows 7 or 8.1 on a Core iX processor will be a dramatic improvement on what you have now. For example, you could get aDell Inspiron 3000desktop PC for £299, £399 or £499 depending on processor, and the £399 model has a perfectly adequate Core i3-4130.In this case, a Chillblast Prestige i5 4570I with keyboard and mouse comes to £543 plus £24.99 shipping, so the grand total would be £573.59. The equivalent Dell OptiPlex 3020 Mini Tower costs £506.14 plus £25 shipping, or £536.14. So, the Chillblast machine is slightly more expensive, but it includes 8GB of memory instead of 4GB. (Dell doesn&apos;t offer 8GB, but adding memory fromCrucialwould cost £60.) Otherwise, I had to increase the price of the Dell slightly to get a 5-year warranty to match the one offered by Chillblast. Finally, my Dell price includes £207.74 worth of discounts that expire on May 2.To sum up, literally, the Chillblast Prestige i5 4570I costs £37.45 more than the Dell OptiPlex 3020 MT at the time of writing, but is £22.55 cheaper if you increase the Dell&apos;s memory to 8GB. This is not a significant difference over the PC&apos;s expected life. Either machine should last you until 14 January 2020, when Microsoft stops supporting Windows 7 (at which point the British government and all its departments will panic, because they just didn&apos;t see it coming). That&apos;s 2,084 days from today, so the Chillblast would cost you 31.5p per day, or £2.20 per week.Linux buffs will note that you can buy the Prestige i5 4570I without an operating system, saving the outrageous 14p per week cost of a pre-installed copy of Windows 7 Professional, or 7p per week over the alternative Windows 8.1. These are unusually large savings because Chillblast doesn&apos;t appear to bundle crapware with the operating system. You can even elect to have no anti-virus software pre-installed.Chillblast has wonPC Pro magazine&apos;s annual Desktop PC Awardfor the past four years, so I can&apos;t see any reason why you shouldn&apos;t buy one, if that&apos;s what you fancy. It will also help sustain jobs in the UK rather than in Poland or China.
Kids&apos; electronics company LeapFrog has released the world’s first activity tracker for children, theLeapBand, cashing in on both the quantified-self craze and concern around the problem of childhood obesity.What is it?The LeapBand is gamified-fitness tracker for kids with a screen that displays cartoon animals to encourage play. It looks like a large children&apos;s watch and talks to the child through a built-in speaker, hopefully getting them off the sofa.What does it do?The band’s screen displays a personalised virtual pet (a cat, dog, dragon, monkey, panda, penguin, robot or unicorn), which guides the child through a series of activity challenges and games. The more active they are the more points they win and the more games they unlock, with up to 50 activities on offer.Who’s it aimed at?LeapFrog is pitching the LeapBand at four to seven year olds, and it comes in green, pink, blue and orange to appeal to both boys and girls.Multiple colours are available to appeal to boys and girls. Photograph: LeapFrogWill it be fun?Some of the games promote learning, such as Pet Boogie, Pet Chef and Pet Salon, but quite a few are just silly commands, such as &quot;walk like a crab,&quot; &quot;spin like a helicopter&quot; and &quot;pop like popcorn”.The beauty is that these games can be played anywhere and without the need for any extra kit, so no footballs, hula hoops or horses required.Will it last the distance?Users will undoubtedly get bored eventually, but beyond the initial 10 activities, which when completed unlock a further 40, there’s also a free app that connects the band to a tablet or smartphone, allowing the child to compete as their virtual pet in six mini-games including archery, surfing and bobsledding.Winning a game wins a medal, and a new tracksuits for their virtual pet. The app is available for LeapFrog’s child-targeted tablet, the LeapPad Ultra, as well as the iPhone, iPad and Android.What do parents get out of it?With the increasing problem of childhood obesity, activity trackers such as LeapBand could become important tools to help encourage more active children.Parents can see how active their child has been throughout the day, exporting the information using the LeapBand&apos;s companion app in much the same way as adult activity trackers like the Misfit Shine.Will it be a distraction in school?Parents remain in control and can lock down the LeapBand for a set time period to stop it being a distraction in school. Whether children find away around that kind of lockdown remains to be seen.How long will it last?The rubber band and thick plastic housing are tough and durable, as well as being water resistant and with a battery that lasts around four to six days on a single charge. The watch is charged via microUSB, which does mean it’s another device for parents to remember to charge.How much will it cost and where can I get it?LeapBand costs £29.99 and will be on sale in the UK from August.Does my kid really need an activity tracker?Probably not. But you can guarantee that they are going to want one for Christmas.•Apple&apos;s next headphones will track heart rate and blood pressure, leak claims
The word &quot;classic&quot; is used – and abused – in many ways by pop culture pundits. There are albums you’re supposedly not able to live without, and movies that you just have to see before you die. In games, however, the notion of classic status is a little harder to pin down. As a form of entertainment, of expression, of art even, games are much more closely tied to the march of technological progress than any other medium. What begins as revolutionary can often become routine mere days after its Metascore is calculated.Yet, there are games that resonate with a definite timelessness, games that nobody should pass up the opportunity to play, which aren’t defined by graphics, peripheral interfaces or topical relevance. There is Tetris, and The Secret Of Monkey Island. There is The Legend Of Zelda: Ocarina Of Time, and Super Mario Bros. 3. Games that set the rules for others to follow, that establish precedents seen across today’s scene.Released in 1999, director Yu Suzuki’s open-world adventure Shenmue is certainly among these influential essentials. Released in 1999, this vast and ambitious game sees young hero Ryo Hazuki seeking revenge on gangland overlord, Lan Di, for the murder of his father. It has a wealth of inspirational gameplay elements and a level of envelopment quite unrivalled for its time.It also had a gigantic development price tag. At the time of its release, it was said to have cost Sega a close-to-company-breaking $70m. In 2011, Suzuki revised the figure, claiming the original Shenmue ran up costs of $47m in development and marketing. Either way, it was the most expensive game ever made to that point, and couldn’t hope to recoup its expenditure – every Dreamcast owner would have had to buy two copies for Sega to get back into the black.It was brave, immense, brilliant … but admittedly, until just the other week, I’d never played it. I’d owned it for a while, but it had never made the perilous journey from &quot;cupboard full of games&quot; to &quot;front room littered with consoles&quot;. (See also: the original Half-Life, and please don’t hate me for that.) Now it’s done, finished, behind me, and I’m feeling an emptiness. Because for a while there, I was totally at one with its world. Concluding Shenmue for the first time, 15 years after its debut on Sega’s swansong console, the Dreamcast, I can understand why vociferous fans so rabidly receive the most meagre news regarding a concluding chapter. Shemue, you see, was conceived of as a trilogy but Sega only managed to release two instalments before the Dreamcast sank into oblivion, taking most of the company&apos;s cash with it.But this isn&apos;t a story about failure. It is about discovering a wonderful game.A game of its time?In 1999, Shenmue arrived to a cacophony of hype – which I managed to avoid, having stalled my Sega-buying habits after the emergence of the 32X (my wife bought me a Dreamcast for Christmas 2012). The money that Suzuki had somehow managed to acquire for chapter one of his epic role-play series was clear to see in every pixel. To gamers of that era, it looked beautiful– in its 9.7/10 review, IGN called the visuals breathtaking.And in 2014, on a modern HD television, the game still looks handsome. Sure, the colours are somewhat muddy, the skybox heavily pixelated, but the game&apos;s setting – the quaint little town of Yokosuka – appears properly alive; certainly more so than the Manhattan of Treyarch’s free-roaming Spider-Man 2, for example, a game which wasn’t released until 2004. A precursor to the Hong Kong of Sleeping Dogs or the LA analogue of GTAV’s Los Santos, it is a living place with shops and resturants, markets and arcades – all explorable, all hiding little treats for Ryo and the player as you both wander about. There are characters to meet and secrets to uncover, but the structure is lose; you are free to roam.The game’s &quot;Magic Weather&quot; system ensures that, as the days pass, the inexorable cycle of the seasons is reflected on screen. The skies cloud over and rain falls. Snow descends and settles on the small suburb of Sakuragaoka. It is crunchy underfoot. From 15 December, Christmas decorations are put up, stores play Jingle Bells and a cocktail-loving Santa begins to roam the streets. Ryo still wears the same jacket.Sights and soundsThe visuals, while perhaps not quite cutting edge, were impressive for 1999. Yes, it’s full of graceless facial animations, despite benefitting from some primitive motion-capture work, and the overall aesthetic quality is nowhere close to the standard that the market-exploding PlayStation 2 would begin to introduce, just months after Shenmue’s arrival. But there’s a consistency to these visuals, with tertiary non-player characters treated with the same attention to detail as primary, plot-essential individuals, and the rooted-in-reality world around them, which lends the overall atmosphere a real believability.Rather less engrossing is the dialogue, which (in English at least) has been responsible for as many moments of accidental hilarity as it has plotline revelations. Ryo’s conversation-closing gambit of “I see” is endlessly employed whether it makes any sense to the proceeding chat or not. Does Ryo really see? What is he even looking at? And then, of course, there is the famous sequence in which the search for revenge requires our hero to track down a group of sailors. Everywhere he goes, he asks unwary inhabitants, &quot;do you know where I can find some sailors?&apos; The guy at the burger stand seems to be secretly in on the suggestive fun of it all:Ryo and his insatiable quest for sailors.Whatever he&apos;s looking for, whether it&apos;s sailors or fizzy pop from a vending machine, Shenmue doesn’t rush Ryo from pillar to post. His key story appointments all happen at pre-determined times in the day, so there is an awful lot of waiting around. It’s a curious set-up. Today, most games allow fast travelling, and even old-school RPGs would let the player’s band of hardy warriors bed down at two in the afternoon in order to skip forward to the next morning’s action. But the way Suzuki saw it, at least for the first Shenmue game (the second allows for fast-forwarding), if you don’t have to be anywhere until midday tomorrow, then you’ve got until then to doss about. And no sleeping until after 8pm, because, well, you’re 18, and you have cool spiky hair and a leather jacket you never take off – the world is open before you.So, what to do? There are options aplenty. You can head to the arcade and play actual complete versions of Yu Suzuki&apos;s own coin-op classics Hang-On and Space Harrier. Or throw some darts. Or get more capsule toy collectibles from dispensers scattered around Yokosuka – keep on popping 100 yen into the right slot and you might eventually get an Eggman to go with your Sonic figure. You can practice your martial arts for when those skills will matter – and on disc three of three, they really do. Did somebody say 70-man brawl?!A 70-man brawl yesterday.Or you can accept a single-ball pool challenge in the game’s MJQ Jazz Bar – just don’t expect to be served anything but cola. Or accumulate cassette tapes so that you can while away the in-game hours listening tothe sweet riffs of OutRun soundtrack favourite, &quot;Magical Sound Shower&quot;. The clock keeps ticking, sponsored by Timex (no really, Ryo&apos;s watch is a Timex and the company actually produced a limited edition model based on the in-game timepiece), and if you don’t head home yourself before 11.30pm, the game takes you straight to bed anyway.Elsewhere, the game’s combat system betrays its origins as an offshoot of Sega’s Virtua Fighter series. The move-sets that Ryo and his opponents play with are evocative of the classic brawler’s pulverising polygons, and the character of Ryo was originally meant to be VF’s star combatant, Akira – it doesn’t take eagle eyes to note residual physical similarities between the models. And while the fight sequences are crunchingly authentic, we may never forgive Suzuki for the game&apos;s other interactive system: the Quick Time Event. Usually fronted by an unskippable cut-scene (as if things couldn&apos;t get any worse), they involve using the d-pad and the A and B buttons to navigate a series of choreographed encounters. Suzuki wanted to add visual drama and interacivity to cinematic scenes, but he ended up inventing one of the most hated and abused game mechanics since the hacking mini-challenge.Here&apos;s how it worked:The birth of Quick Time Events.But luckily, most of the time in Shenmue is spent in what the game calls &quot;Quest Mode&quot;, pointing Ryo at people and places, shop fronts and buses, cats and vending machines and capsule toy dispensers, and pressing A to interact with them or the right trigger to zoom in. That&apos;s assuming you can steer him into place, as navigational controls aren’t exactly yielding, as this Bits review from 1999 details:Sorry Aleks...Shenmue is charmingly Japanese, and not just in terms of its signage. The way Ryo behaves – always respectful to his elders, and grateful for the allowance he receives each day; his tidiness with empty drinks cans and toy capsules; how he takes off his shoes when he gets home – is quite unlike 21st-century game protagonists. But just like any GTA series antihero, he does insist on sleeping in his jeans. They are nice jeans, though, as the denim specialist in the commercial hub of Dobuita is happy to tell you. Just don’t ask him about his experiences with Asia Travel Co. In fact no one you speak to had has a good experience with the Asia Travel Co. It is a credit to the intricacy of this world that it contains a dubious travel agency.Indeed, chatting with the many and varied residents of Shenmue’s world goes a long way to delivering on Suzuki&apos;s promise to deliver the “most compelling form of interactivity ever experienced outside the real world”. Dobuita’s greengrocer reveals a love of karaoke, while the chap tending the counter at Funny Bear Burgers is a bit obsessed with his homemade pickles. Sounding rather creepier is the girl who’s always on the till at the Harbour’s Tomato branch (Tomato is the game’s chain of convenience stores) – she claims to know “all about how to get an audition”. For what is never made clear, but she’s sure that Ryo’s far too handsome to be mixing it up with gang members.Ryo’s awkwardness with the opposite sex, commonly channelled through his interactions with Nozomi, is rather more aggressively illustrated in his chat with a pair of lippy schoolgirls. Try speaking to them where they hang out on the outskirts of Dobuita, and they’ll call Ryo a twit, and a geek, and a pansy. Really push them, and they’ll tell him to “jerk off”. Which seems a bit forward – and would make the least advisable Quick Time Event in gaming history. Ryo is much more comfortable around Tom Johnson, a permanently bopping hot dog salesman. The depth of their friendship only becomes clear towards the game&apos;s climax, when Johnson reveals he has to leave Japan for the States, and Ryo finally accepts one of his friend&apos;s salmonella-riddled products–as a sign of their eternal friendship. Oh, and Johnson&apos;s accent is the least convincing attempt at a regional vernacular since Dick Van Dyke mangled his last line of Cockney nonsense in Mary Poppins:What IS this accent?The cast of characters on show comprises one of Shenmue’s strongest qualities. The bumbling Masayuki Fukuhara, a live-in student at the Hazuki residence; the Gollum-like villain Chai; the Harbour’s mysterious homeless martial artist Shozo Mizuki; the comedic greaser Goro Mihashi – it’s a game packed with memorable faces, some of whom even come accompanied bytheir own theme tune. Some major characters aren’t even featured in any significant capacity, Suzuki saving them for future instalments. Shenhua Ling stars on the game’s cover, beside Ryo and Lan Di – yet she only appears in dreams, waiting to make her fully voiced bow in Shenmue II.Less appealing is the game’s instances that Ryo must undertake every task asked of him, even the most menial ones. When he gets a job at the Harbour as a forklift driver, that’s what the player has to do, several in-game days in a row. That&apos;s right, you ferry crates from one warehouse to another, the monotony only relieved by lunch breaks and the odd altercation with members of the Mad Angels gang. As for the fussy collision detection during the forklift races? Let’s not go there. I never ranked higher than third, and dreaded each morning’s starting grid. But then, in what other game have you woken up every morning dreading a forklift truck race? It is a kind of genius.Forklift truck racing – well, a dock worker has to find some way of making the day pass quicker. Photograph: /PRThere is also a real sense that, when the game’s ending has been reached, very little has actually been achieved. Now, you could see this as poor design, what with so many loose ends left dangling and Ryo’s own announced admission of, “After all that, I still didn’t get Lan Di.” Some games close out leaving palpable sequel bait in their wake, while others take a more ambiguous approach to final moments. Shenmue goes further than most by basically telling the player that it’s not even started yet, that what you’ve just been through amounts to a prologue, really. The saga is coming, so you’d better pack your things – which Ryo duly does, strolling through Dobuita with a backpack slung over his shoulder in what feels like a reworking ofRyu’s walk-away ending in Street Fighter II.Play Shenmue in 2014 and it’s just as easy to be absorbed by its fiction as anything that Naughty Dog’s realised in recent years. Its pacing might be glacial compared to the rollercoaster tempo of Uncharted, but slowing things down allows for a greater appreciation of everything that Suzuki and Sega’s AM2 department achieved here. No single aspect of Shenmue is truly outstanding – graphics are great but never awe-inspiring, and while the music’s occasionally majestic it’s just as happy to deliver irritating ditties (Tomato store theme, excepted). But how everything is held together remains quite exquisite, under the closest scrutiny, even by 2014 standards.“And thus, the saga begins,” are the final words of the closing cinematic, showing our hero – the stern-faced, capsule-toy-collecting, martial-arts-enthusiast, Ryo – sailing away from his native Japan to Hong Kong, on the trail of his father-murdering nemesis. Shenmue II, released in Japan and Europe in late 2001, was something of a last hurrah for the Dreamcast, which, technically, had been discontinued some months earlier. A US Xbox port came later, in October 2002, and transferred to the European market the next spring.But having only just finished Shenmue, I’m yet to dive properly into this successor – although I have many questions. Will Ryo ever catch up with the wicked Lan Di, the smartly attired Chinaman who left daddy Hazuki mortally wounded inside his own dojo at the beginning of Shenmue? Will Ryo’s sexual frustrations, having tip-toed around the affections of Nozomi Harasaki for the duration of the first game, boil over into an outburst of physical fulfilment with a Hong Kong masseuse? Will he ever change that jacket of his, or at least put it in the wash?Here is Nozomi, the object of Ryo's ineffectual affections.Perhaps answers are forthcoming. Althoughreports have suggestedthat the Shenmue trademark has expired in the States, Sony has said it wants to bring some of Sega’s most-celebrated series to its platforms,including Shenmue. Microsoft is also rumoured to have shown interest, although Xbox chief Phil Spencer has said it&apos;sunlikely a first-party development team would take on the project. Nevertheless, it looks increasingly likely that a Shenmue III will happen, albeit probably not in the immediate future. Suzuki made an appearance at 2014’s Game Developers Conference in San Francisco,telling the assembled press and fansthat with the “right opportunity” he’d absolutely proceed with a third game, leaving a slide on the screen that said, “To be continued…”.The biggest stumbling block in bringing Shenmue III into development, let alone getting it gold and taking it to retail, is the money involved. Let&apos;s say Shenmue cost $70m. Adjusted for today’s market, it comes to just south of $100m. Now, that’s not an unreasonable amount for the biggest triple-A titles to spend – Grand Theft Auto V reportedly cost Rockstar $265m to make and market and BioShock Infinite allegedly ran up a bill breaching nine figures, although Ken Levine did what he could to cool talk of a $200m outlay. But however you dress it up, Shenmue is old IP which hasn’t gone anywhere, successfully, for over a decade, making a comparable budget incredibly unlikely. A smartphones-only title, Shenmue City, lasted only a year following a December 2010 launch, and never migrated from Japan.But even if it was happening, now, a Shenmue III costing $100m or more would have to sell several million copies to begin making its money back, based onfigures presented in 2013 by industry analyst Billy Pidgeon). Suzuki has admitted he’sexploring the Kickstarter modelto get Shenmue III progressing, but while a number of games have seen success through such crowd-funded models, none have generated anywhere near a high-end triple-A-standard amount; Obsidian’s Project Eternity (since retitled Pillars Of Eternity) raised close to $4m, and inExile’s Torment: Tides Of Numenera slightly more, but these are amongst Kickstarter’s most heavily supported projects. A fan-backed Shenmue III would have to rely upon some pretty hefty individual pledges. Did Wayne Rooney ever own a Dreamcast?“This is clearly not a game,” states Shenmue’s sleeve, “but an experience never to be forgotten.” And while it’s only a day fresh in this memory, I can confidently say that I won’t forget my time adventuring with Ryo Hazuki – even if his journey’s only just begun. Perhaps by the time I finish Shenmue II, further conjecture on a trilogy concluder will have done the rounds.But then, some don’t want a third game. Eurogamer’s Martin Robinson recently wrote about howhe has no desire to see Shenmue III. “Its moment has passed,&quot; he opined. &quot;And as intoxicating as [it was] at the turn of the century, it’s hard to see one man isolated from the industry recapturing the grandeur for an audience spoiled by Skyrim and Los Santos, regardless of whatever budget comes his way.”But I think, right now, I’m in the opposite camp. I’m too close to Ryo to leave him, by all accounts, stuck in a cave somewhere, with no sailors to seek out or Sega-themed mini-figures to stuff into his bottomless pockets. This son needs his closure – as do thousands, if not millions, more.• Why a Nintendo v Sega movie is a great idea• The six best retro consoles for modern gamers
Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more. Except, of course, this being Call of Duty, the breach is likely to see plenty more action in the coming years.Yes, Activision has announced the 2014 instalment in its annual first-person shooter series. Subtitled Advanced Warfare, the game is due out on 4 November, and will be developed by San Francisco-based studio Sledgehammer, which previously worked on Modern Warfare 3. And the Shakespearean reference in the opening line is not merely a flourish: the game will feature Kevin Spacey, artistic director of the Old Vic, as its lead antagonist. It is not the respected actor&apos;s first video game appearance – he also starred in the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 2 tie-in with the movie Superman Returns.Set, it seems, slightly in the future, Advanced Warfare will feature Spacey as the head of a private military contractor (PMC) which goes rogue and picks a fight with the US government – with no doubt explosive consequences.Call of Duty: Advanced WarfareFrom the trailer it looks like the game, which has dramatic set pieces on San Francisco&apos;s Golden Gate Bridge, has an emphasis on bleeding-edge military hardware. Soldiers wear exoskeletons which provide extra armour and enhanced physical abilities – including the ability to rocket jump and scale vertical surfaces. A little like recently released Xbox One shooter, Titanfall. Cloaking devices, robotic tanks, portable cover points and drones also make appearences amid the gunfire and explosions.Originally Activision intended to dripfeed the news of its next blockbuster via snippets of information. On Thursday it announced ateaser site, and a date for a fuller revelation: 4 May. It also released a mini-documentary on real-life PMCs and their role in military situations across the world.Call of Duty's  mini-doc on private military contractors – a teaser for the themes explored in Advanced Warfare.However, it seems details of the announcement were leaked during the night, and so Activision has launched a trailer and release date early. US news site Polygonhas suggestedthat the PlayStation 4, Xbox One and PC will be the key platforms for the title.The Call of Duty series has sold over 100m copies since the first title arrived in 2003. The games reached their peak of popularity with Call of Duty: Black Ops II in 2012, which shifted over 7.5m copies on its launch day and reached $1bn in revenue after just two weeks. Last year&apos;s title, Call of Duty: Ghosts fared less well, although has still sold almost 20m copies, making it the biggest selling titles of 2013 after Grand Theft Auto V.According to Activision, Call of Duty has around 40m active players, although some have criticised the series for its glorification of military action, gung-ho patriotism, cultural stereotyping and derivative campaign narratives. It is thought that Sledgehammer is keen to make a clean break with this title, introducing new ideas and innovations – although that was very much the aim with Black Ops II (which introduced strategy sequences) and Ghosts (which introduced a combat dog).Activision is still expected to announce further details on Sunday at 4pm UK time.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTo remember a lecture better, take notes by hand &gt;&gt; The AtlanticRobinson Meyer:Psych 101 was about to start, and Pam Mueller had forgotten her laptop at home. This meant more than lost Facebook time. A psychology grad student at Princeton, Mueller was one of the class teaching assistants. It was important she have good notes on the lecture. Normally she used her laptop to take notes, but, without it, she'd have to rely on a more traditional approach.So she put pen to paper—and found something surprising.If this were Upworthy, it would be "kittens under the desk!" But it isn't.Sony's in a 'bag of hurt' because of Blu-ray &gt;&gt; The VergeRoughly 30bn yen ($293m) of the drop is due to "additional expenses" from Sony's exit from the PC business. The company announced it's to sell its PC division to a Japanese investment fund earlier this year.The second charge is due to what Sony calls "demand for physical media contracting faster than anticipated," especially in Europe. Because of this, Sony says it does not believe the business will generate "sufficient cash flow in the future to recover the carrying amount of long-lived assets." It anticipates an impairment charge on those assets, and a second charge on the overall value of its disc manufacturing business, which will amount to 25bn yen ($245m).Basically, streaming is undermining Blu-ray profits, just as downloads did to the CD business. Bill Gates was right when he said that whichever of HD-DVD or Blu-ray survived, it would be "the last physical format".Amazon smartphone photos: exclusive first clear photo of Kindle Phone &gt;&gt; BGRThe image above is the first to reveal the design of Amazon's debut smartphone. Multiple trusted sources have verified the authenticity of the image, which was created for internal use by graphic designers at Amazon.This is like the world's longest and most boring striptease. Pictures of a graphic design? Yup, looks like a phone. Answers none of the important questions: who will buy it, and why?Worldwide tablet shipments miss targets as first quarter experiences single-digit growth &gt;&gt; IDCApple maintained its lead in the worldwide tablet plus 2-in-1 market, shipping 16.4m units. That's down from 26.0m units in the previous quarter and well below its total of 19.5m units in the first quarter of 2013. Despite the contraction, the company saw its share of the market slip only modestly to 32.5%, down from the previous quarter's share of 33.2%. Samsung once again grew its worldwide share, increasing from 17.2% last quarter to 22.3% this quarter. Samsung continues to work aggressively with carriers to drive tablet shipments through attractively priced smartphone bundles. Rounding out the top five were ASUS (5%), Lenovo (4.1%), and Amazon (1.9%)."With roughly two-thirds share, Android continues to dominate the market," said Jitesh Ubrani, Research Analyst, Worldwide Quarterly Tablet Tracker. "Although its share of the market remains small, Windows devices continue to gain traction thanks to sleeper hits like the Asus T100, whose low cost and 2-in-1 form factor appeal to those looking for something that's 'good enough'."Why LinkedIn is morphing from a social network into an online newspaper &gt;&gt; QuartzLeo Mirani:Growth in monthly desktop users and desktop pageviews both slipped into negative territory last year. To many, LinkedIn is only a place to go when looking for a job. And despite the LinkedIn's exhortations to users to fill in their profiles to "100% completeness" and "endorse" each other, connections and endorsements on the network are essentially meaningless. LinkedIn needs a way to get users to come back more regularly. That's why, over the past three years, it has morphed into a content platform."They would like guys like you and me to look at our LinkedIn newsfeed as part of our morning ritual, the same way some people look at Twitter" says Tom White, an analyst at Macquarie, an investment bank.Good luck with that.Tech hubris: the Silicon Valley antitrust hiring conspiracy &gt;&gt; BusinessweekThe antitrust court files show that Google and Apple shared something else: fear of Facebook, the latest magnet for top managers and programmers. In a deposition, Schmidt fretted about Google executive Sheryl Sandberg's defection in March 2008 to become the social networking company's chief operating officer. "Sheryl," Schmidt recalled, "had built our recruiting organization, was an excellent recruiter, and as she went over to Facebook, many people left Google to work for her in jobs which they perceived as promotions."In her own pretrial testimony, Sandberg said her former Google comrades tried to persuade her to lean in and join the no-recruiting cabal. To her credit, she refused. Facebook was not named as a defendant in the case.Google, Apple, Intel, Adobe, Pixar all in effect guilty of collusion.Chromebooks: not much room for competition &gt;&gt; ZDNetJames Kendrick:Major laptop makers are paying attention and are adding Chromebooks to their product lines. They require basically the same production methods as their Windows laptops, so it's a low-cost effort to build them. The Chromebook doesn't require big hardware, so the component inventory is not too heavy.The problem these OEMs face in the Chromebook space is differentiation from the competition. The entry-level hardware is the same for all players, and it doesn't leave much room for specialization. Chromebooks are basically the same across the board, and that makes it hard to stand out in a growing crowd.Oh look, it's thevalue trapagain. Most likely the only "spec" that buyers will look at will be the price - which means margins racing to the bottom again.High entry barriers block foreign firms &gt;&gt; Korea TimesKorea is the toughest market to penetrate due to various protective measures, according to the chief executive of a Turkish TV manufacturer.At the IFA Global Press Conference 2014, here, Turan Erdogan, CEO of Vestel, said Korea is still one of the most protected markets in the world."Korea is a protective market and applies stiffer barriers," Erdogan said during a session about its business strategies at an upcoming IFA fair in Berlin, Germany, from Sept. 5 to 10.He continued; "Vestel was struggling to ship even TV samples." The firm is a subsidiary of Turkey's Zorlu Holding, and produced about 20% of televisions bought in Europe, which is second to Samsung Electronics.Vestel's TV panels come from... Korean manufacturers Samsung and LG.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Google’s Australian operation may have had its $7.1m tax bill reduced to just $466,802 in the 2013 financial year.Google Australia had its taxes reduced as a result of of a range of tax deductions,according to Fairfax Media.But the company also reported it had made $46.5m in local pre-tax profits, according to filings with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission.On Monday Google denied the claim, and said in a statement: &quot;We paid $7.1m in corporate taxes and $15m in payroll and other taxes in Australia.&quot;Tech giants in Australia have come under scrutiny for the relatively small amount of tax they pay compared to their estimated profits,leading to calls for an overhaul of tax laws.Eight multinational companies are being reviewedin Australia by the tax office because of the low taxes they pay.It was alsoreported earlier in the yearthat Apple’s Australian arm had shifted $8.9bn in untaxed profits to a tax haven structure in Ireland.
Facebook F8 is the conference Facebook holds annually for its engineers and designers, giving them a sneak peek into what&apos;s changing on the social network and revealing new products and features.Named after the Facebook tradition of holding an eight-hour hackathon after the presentations, the one-dayFacebook F8event is held in San Francisco and is hosted by Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, with keynotes, developer sessions and announcements rolling out plans for the next year.We&apos;ve translated the developer jargon and summarised everything the regular Facebook user needs to know about how their profile will change in the next few months.1 Use Facebook to log in anonymously on other sitesAn anonymous login option will allow Facebook users to test new apps without giving over their private information.Facebook’s identity system, which lets users login to other apps and services with their Facebook account, is getting a privacy boost.The new system will allow users tolog into third-party apps anonymouslyso that they can try out the appsbeforedeciding to provide them with their personal information.Facebook can still record which apps are being used, but those apps can&apos;t record any personal data.Once the user is happy sharing data with the app, they can chose what is and isn’t shared, so certain information, like birthdays or friends lists, can stay hidden hidden.The new anonymous login features will be rolling out soon.2 Facebook&apos;s new ad network may mean fewer ads in your newsfeedFacebook is expanding its advertising empire with a new ad platform for mobile apps.Facebook makes money by using its data about users to sell targeted ads to advertisers. That advertising business has just been bolsteredby the launch of Facebook’s own advertising network- theFacebook Audience Network, or Fan.Fan allows developers to use Facebook’s ad-targeting systems as well as its ad service to generate money from their apps, in the same way that Apple has iAds and Google AdMob.The ads will take the form of traditional banner ads in mobile apps, as well as large boxes. Facebook aims to make its ads slightly higher quality than some others, making sure that publishers can only show one ad on screen at any one time, and that they don&apos;t obscure buttons or generally causes irritation.Advertisers won&apos;t get access to a user’s private data, but the different way Facebook is using its powerful trove of targeting data shows it is starting to think about how to use this across other sites and services.As a result, there is less pressure for the social network to push ads on Facebook, which could eventually see a reduction in ads in your News Feed, maybe.3 No more half-baked experimental featuresZuckerberg went to pains to point out that Facebook has grown up, moving beyond its “move fast and break things” mentality to that of a more mature company.As a result the Zuckerberg pledged to fix major bugs in Facebook within 48 hours, and said the company would no longer rush to change things unless they had been thoroughly tested. That should make Facebook more stable.4 Easier linking between appsAppLinks aims to make linking between mobile apps seamless on any platform.Facebook will launch a new mobile app calledAppLinks, which aims to make it easier to use links that switch between apps and web pages.In April 2013 Facebook boughtParse, a back-end cloud service for apps, on which AppLinks service is based. Evernote users, for example, could click on a link to an Evernote doc in an email, which would automatically open the Evernote app, but revert back to the email when done.Both Android and Apple’s iOS have a basic ability to do that, but Facebook wants to make the whole experience uniform across mobiles, tablets and desktop, and is offering AppLinks as an open-source initiative - presumably to offer better integration between third-party apps and Facebook apps.• Facebook continues its data collection march bybuying activity tracking app Moves
Reading on mobile? Watch one of the videos posted by the channelFor the past seven months, a single YouTube channel has been uploading an average of one video every 20 seconds. Each video is exactly the same: 10 seconds long, they flick through 10 still images of a blue and a red rectangle, accompanied by a series of electronic tones. The position and sizes of the shapes, the title of the video and the pitch of the tones all appear to be completely random, but every single video has the caption "aqua.flv" in the bottom-left corner.Reading on mobile? Watch the very first videoThe 77,000 or so videos have all been uploaded by an account called "Webdriver Torso", and the hunt for their creator – and purpose – hasentranced the internetfor a week. Theories ranged from alternate reality games to extraterrestrial activity, through espionage and viral marketing. The Today programme took to Twitter to blame either aliens or advertising:"The aliens are coming" says@1357martyabout mystery videos:http://t.co/VWKl7YPwtf.@thehughesladythinks its an advertising campaign&mdash; BBC Radio 4 Today (@BBCr4today)May 1, 2014While on the blogBoingBoing, user Enkidu speculated that the videos might be a digital version of spies' "numbers stations". These cold war relics are radio stations that broadcast seemingly random numbers at periodic intervals. They are thought to be the basis of a method of encoded communication using what are known as "one-time pads", large sheets of random data that let spies create unbreakable messages (so long as the one-time pad never falls into enemy hands). Could the Webdriver Torso videos be fulfilling a similar purpose?Reading on mobile? Watch the latest videoThe Daily Dot's Brendan O'Connortried to track down the videos' creator, but to no avail; whoever is behind the YouTube account ignored his messages, and didn't respond when the Guardian attempted contact either. But O'Connor did find a company called Selenium that makes a product called Selenium Ice, which has a function called … WebDriver. The software is used to automate testing websites, but even its creators don't know what the videos are about. As O'Connor reported:It looked likely that "Webdriver Torso" was part of this project, not only because of the shared neologism but also because automation seemed like the only plausible explanation for uploading this quantity of video. But Patrick Lightbody, who has been involved with Selenium since 2005, denied that there was any connection between their WebDriver and Webdriver Torso. "Those videos look like they are trying to make contact with aliens," he wrote.But the truth is, as ever, more mundane.Isaul Vargas, a New York-based software tester, spotted the videos ina post on BoingBoingand recognised them from an automation conference he had been at a year ago. They were being shown by a European firm that made streaming software for set-top boxes, the kit that sits under a TV and connects to services such as Sky or Netflix.The company needed to be able to quickly and reliably upload digital video, a capability which it tested by uploading short, randomly generated snippets to its YouTube channel and running image-recognition software on it. "Considering the volume of videos and the fact they use YouTube, it tells me that this is a large company testing their video encoding software and measuring how Youtube compresses the videos," says Vargas.So there's the answer. What looked like an insight into the murky world of espionage, or maybe even something otherworldly, turns out to be a little bit of a quality-control system leaking into the outside world.Perhaps some puzzles are better left unsolved.UPDATE: But there's another twist. Isaul has tracked down the presentation he saw, which was given by the British company YouView. While it features similar videos, it is not identical: so although the general principle of using WebDriver, YouTube and automatic image recognition to test software stands, the culprit has slipped off into the night.When one door closes, another opens. A thousand videos into the series is one six-second clip that breaks the mould. A short video of the Eiffel Tower, it features a comment from the uploader: "Matei is highly intelligent." Already, readers have been hard at work trying to find someone who fits the bill, but it's tricky. Matei is a common Romanian name, and even assuming that Matei is the uploader, is based in France, and has a public profile, there are at least two possibilities: Basarab Matei, who works on image recognition at the University of Paris North (suggested by @DAddYE), and Matei Mancas, who works on attention modelling at the University of Mons in Belgium (suggested by @marquis).The Guardian has asked both if they can shed more light on the question, but has yet to receive a reply.
Apple will break into the wearables market by incorporating sensors in headphones to measure heart rate and blood pressure, according to apostingon the anonymous app Secret.The headphones would also use Apple&apos;s &quot;iBeacon&quot; system to help locate them if lost, according to the author of the post - who claims to have been let go from the company, along with others, last week.Update:the author of the postingsays it is a fake- and that he has never worked for Apple.Apple is also working on an &quot;iWatch&quot; wearable, the author suggested, but said that the &quot;name isn&apos;t final yet&quot;. That would put it into contention with Samsung, which has released both a smart watch and a &quot;Gear Fit&quot; wristband that claims to measure heart rate, in favour of a minimal product that could be used on millions of its existing products.The suggestion would also fit well with leaked suggestions that iOS 8, Apple&apos;s next version of its iPhone and iPad software, will incorporate a &quot;Healthbook&quot; app. Those leaks,first published by 9to5Macin March, pointed to attempts by Apple to capitalise on the growing interest in tracking fitness.But other research has also shown that people tend to discard separately bought fitness gadgets within a few months – suggesting that any successful &quot;wearable&quot; would have to have a dual function, one of which was not in health or fitness-related. Apple however could have a potential market among its own users of at least 100m devices which could replace existing headphones with the newer ones.True secretsThe nature of Secret means that it is impossible to trace the authors of posts, or verify their identity. But it has gained increasing credibility as a number of staff inside Silicon Valley companies have begun using it and leaking sometimes confidential information.In April, one post on Secret claimed that Nike was shutting down its Fuelband wearables division - a claim that was in effect confirmed by the company. Another claimed that Google+ chief Vic Gundotra was looking at jobs outside outside Google; he left two days after the posting appeared.More recently a claim said that Box, the enterprise cloud filing company, would delay its stock market float, and that also happened.Ben Wood, chief of research at the research company CCS Insight, told the Guardian: &quot;We can&apos;t take any credibility from something posted on Secret. But - are these things Apple could do? If you had simply asked me what Apple could do, then putting sensors in is a rational next step.&quot;He points out that other companiesincluding LGandIntelhave already shown off prototypes of headphones with built-in sensors: LG&apos;s measure heart rate, and connect to a wearable band as well as a phone.&quot;You see so many people running with headphones in an a smartphone or music player attached,&quot; said Wood. &quot;This is totally, utterly rational as a product direction for Apple. It&apos;s been widely investigated by other manufacturers, but as always with Apple, they&apos;re great at taking an existing technology and improving the user experience.&quot;Samsung&apos;s Galaxy S5 includes health and fitness apps, including a heart-rate monitor which requires the user to hold a finger up to the camera.In the post, the writer claims that &quot;Apple&apos;s new EarPods will have sensors in them, for heart rate &amp; blood pressure. Also iBeacons so they don&apos;t get lost. They will require the Lightning port [a proprietary connector used only on the iPhone and iPad], it&apos;s why the audio jack was moved to the bottom.&quot;They add that &quot;[the phone] stores the data in a similar way to thumbprint point data, fully encrypted and nothing identifiable. But nice to send to your doctor to keep track of at which point your blood pressure started rising for example.&quot;The author also suggested that the headphones will be introduced when iOS 8, the next version of Apple&apos;s iPhone and iPad software, is released - which would probably be in September this year, to maintain the company&apos;s cycle of updates to its iPhone line too and catch the Christmas selling period, the largest in the year.Asked why they had leaked details of Apple&apos;s forthcoming product - the sort of information the company always tries to keep secret up until the moment of an announcement - the post&apos;s author said &quot;I have being manipulated… I&apos;m not the only person who got sent home for good last week.&quot;Wood noted that if the headphones do require the Lightning port, it would create a huge potential market for Apple, because was introduced with the iPhone 5 in September 2012.Since then Apple has sold a total of 245m iPhones. A significant number of those will be the older iPhone 4 or 4S, which do not use the Lightning connector - but Apple would probably have a potential market for such &quot;wearable&quot; headphones of around 100m devices.Apple said that it did not comment on rumours and speculation.•iPhone &apos;lock-out&apos; patent could end texting while driving
Google will no longer scan the emails of children using their services at schools around the world, after the search company permanently disabled adverts in its Apps for Education product.Adverts were already disabled by default in Apps for Education, a Google service which offers the company&apos;s cloud computing apps to schools and universities free of charge, but administrators were given the option to turn them on.That option has also been removed, and adverts are now always off.The changes wereannounced on Google&apos;s Enterprise blog, and come after the company&apos;s involvement in a lawsuit in California which accuses it of breaching a US law called the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (Ferpa). That act governs access to student educational records, and Google&apos;s automated scanning of emails for the purpose of displaying adverts allegedly breached the law.&quot;While I believe this is a good first step for protecting student privacy, why did it take Google years to make this change,&quot;asks social media lawyer Bradley Shear. &quot;Absent multiple lawsuits and the investigative reportingfrom Education Week, would Google have changed its practices?&quot;Will Google also turn off its scanning and behavioral advertising functions for its other services such as YouTube in a school setting,&quot; Shear continues. &quot;Will Google also change its Android and Chromebook policies to better protect student privacy? Will Google change its terms of service and privacy policies that govern all of its education offerings? Will Google revise all of its school contracts to reflect this announcement?&quot;The company hadpreviously claimedthat the automated scanning of emails provided features beyond mere advertising, which was why it continued to do it even for accounts where adverts were disabled. Among the features claimed were spell check, virus and spam protection, and the &quot;priority inbox&quot; feature. It also claimed that the scanning could not be turned off.&quot;Today more than 30 million students, teachers and administrators globally rely on Google Apps for Education,&quot; writes Bram Bout, the company&apos;s director of education, in the announcement. &quot;Earning and keeping their trust drives our business forward. We know that trust is earned through protecting their privacy and providing the best security measures.&quot;The move also follows an aggressive campaign from Bing, Microsoft&apos;s search engine, promoting its own ad-free product for use in the classroom. Bing allows schoolchildren to search the internet in an ad-free environment, although the product is only available in the US.•Google faces lawsuit over email scanning and student data
Almost two years after its launch, Microsoft&apos;s Surface PC-tablet hybrid shows no signs of being a hit.New figures released by the company to the Securities and Exchange Commission show that in the three months to the end of March 2014, revenues from selling the Surface and accessories was $494m - but the cost of getting those revenues was $539m. That means for every $100 of revenues from Surface, Microsoft spent $109.Microsoftsays in its filingthat the cost of revenue &quot;increased due mainly to a higher number of units sold&quot;.In the previous quarter, to the end of December, Microsoft recorded $893m in revenues for the Surface - but cost of revenues were $932m, so it spent $104 for every $100 of revenue.In the three months to September 2013, revenues were $400m, but cost of revenue was $616m.Overall, for the nine-month period to the end of March, total Surface revenues were $1.8bn - but cost of revenue was $2.1bn, meaning that it spent $116 to get every $100 of revenue.Microsoft has produced two revisions of the Surface - which comes in two forms: one running Windows RT, on ARM-based processors, and the Surface Pro, which runs on Intel processors and can run all standard Windows programs. It has just launched a version with LTE connectivity built in.The Surface was meant to jump-start Microsoft&apos;s entry into the tablet market after Apple&apos;s iPad, and numerous models running Google&apos;s Android software, staked out a new space. Microsoft announced the first version, after developing it in secret,in June 2012, and began shipping them in October.Steve Sinofsky, then head of the Windows division - but who was later ousted by Microsoft&apos;s then-chief executive Steve Ballmer - said of the Surface that it&apos;s &quot;a tablet that&apos;s a great PC - a PC that&apos;s a great tablet.&quot;But consumers seemed less keen. Within months of the launch, industry sources weresaying that demand for the device was weak, and that the company had halved orders from 4m units to 2m. Microsoft didn&apos;t comment on the rumours at the time, but subsequent data from research companies bore out the suggestion that the Surface RT and Surface Pro devices had sold poorly.The revenues for the nine months so far of Microsoft&apos;s fiscal year, which starts in July, show that the Surface is ahead of its previous year, when total revenues from the devices were just $853m - and it took a $900m inventory charge, in effect admitting that it wouldn&apos;t be able to sell an unspecified number of Surfaces that it had had built at the price it had hoped for.But it also shows that the Surface faces an uphill struggle to get Microsoft, and Windows, established in the tablet market. Estimates have suggested that it sold a total of 1.5m Surfaces to the end of the fiscal year in June 2013, and that in the three months ending December it sold another 1.5m. That would suggest that it sold half as many during the January-March quarter - or around 750,000.That would tally withdata released on Thursday by IDC for first-quarter tablet shipments, which do not show Microsoft in the top five suppliers - the smallest of which, Amazon, shipped 1m devices.Microsoft said it did not have any figures to share.The &quot;hybrid&quot; market, which Microsoft was trying to spark into life with the Surface, has so far shown little signs of life.According to a recentforecast from Gartner, &quot;hybrid&quot; and &quot;clamshell&quot; ultramobiles - which includes the Surface, owing to its built-in keyboard - made up 21.1m shipments in 2013, and will grow 76% to 37.2m this year, and another 66% to 62m in 2015.That sits against a market where &quot;slate&quot; tablets such as the iPad are making a far greater impact, however. Business adoption of the iPad appears to have been strong, with deployments in banks, insurance companies and airlines. In total, Apple says it sold 74m iPads in 2013.In its filing, Microsoft acknowledges that Apple has taken a lead in the market, without naming it. One of the notes in the filing about &quot;competition among platforms, ecosystems and devices&quot;, comments: &quot;A competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services, has been successful with some consumer products such as personal computers, tablets, mobile phones, gaming consoles, and digital music players.&quot;Competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services that are integrated with the hardware and software platform. We also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services; however, our competitors in smartphones and tablets have established significantly larger user bases. Efforts to compete with the vertically integrated model will increase our cost of revenue and reduce our operating margins.&quot;•Office for iPad arrives as Nadella stamps authority on new Microsoft
A major, global cyberterrorist attack has long been the stuff of fiction, the threat that a malevolent hacker could bring down businesses, sabotage power plants and cause widespread death and destruction by bringing down planes, traffic systems and defence networks.But whether a scenario like that imagined in the2007 film Die Hard 4would happen is now a question of when, rather than if – according to renowned security expert Eugene Kaspersky.The founder of the independent Kaspersky Lab security company, Kaspersky revealed to the Guardian that a cyberterrorist attack, similar to Die Hard&apos;s “fire sale” scenario, is his biggest fear and that the UK and most other nations are ill-prepared for it.“I’m really afraid of terrorist attacks. I don’t know when or where, but I’m afraid it is going to happen,” said Kaspersky, adding that a potential remote attack on critical infrastructure, including power stations and transport systems, was entirely possible and something he and his researchers had been talking about for a while.“When I was watching the movie, I had to stop 20 minutes in. It was a shock for me. I was keeping silent on cyberterrorism outside of government and thanks to Hollywood they gave out all these ideas – they opened Pandora’s Box forStuxnet– so I said, what the fuck is going on, what the hell are you talking about? After 20 minutes I had to get a glass of whiskey and a cigarette,” he said.While predictions of cyber apocalypse might seem easy to dismiss as conspiracy theory, 48-year-oldKasperskyis is one of the world&apos;s leading experts onanti-malware and security, advising governments and security agencies.‘It was a shock - they opened Pandora’s Box for Stuxnet&apos;Speaking at his new office in west London, Kaspersky said that before the film, he had forbidden his staff and security researchers to discuss cyberterrorism with anyone other than governments - specifically excluding the media to avoid giving “bad guys” ideas, but now the cat was out of the bag.Die Hard 4.0 trailer from 2007.“We came to ideas on these type of attacks years before it happened, and well before Stuxnet we were talking about attacks on critical infrastructure to governments,” explained Kaspersky. “The next day after seeing Die Hard 4, I came to the office and said ‘guys, now we’re free to talk about cyberterrorism to anyone’.”‘Did they get the idea from the film?’The only record of a cyberweapon designed and deployed todamage critical, physical infrastructurewas the Stuxnet worm, which targeted Iran’s nuclear facilities causing real-world damage to its nuclear centrifuges by infecting their command and control software.Stuxnet first appeared in 2009 when it was a simple espionage tool, according to Kaspersky, while the variant of the virus that contained a lethal payload – one capable of doing real damage and not just spying on data – came later, after Die Hard 4 was released.“Did they get the idea from the film? I don’t know, but great minds think alike, if you call these gentlemen great,” said Kaspersky with a wry smile.Iranians dealt with the fallout of the Stuxnet attack for months, which spilled out from its intended target onto the open web. Photograph: Keystone USA-Zuma/Rex FeaturesWhile Stuxnet was suspected ofbeing a state-sponsored attack, backed by nation state resources and skills, once the complex technology was released into the wild it became open season. On the internet, the worm could be anyone’s tool.“I’m afraid that Stuxnet and all these cyber weapons are a very bad innovation,” Kaspersky said, looking sombre. “They can be easily copy-pasted; it’s easy to employ engineers, easy to develop very similar weapons, and there could be some very, very bad guys somewhere in mountains who have zero clue about the technology they have, but they can pay and employ people to create it.”Cyberweapons are like boomerangs, says Kaspersky: once deployed they can easily be repurposed and sent back to their developers, turning an attacker’s weapon against them.“It’s not possible to copy-paste a cruise missile after it was used; even if you have the cruise missile in your hands, not every nation could reverse engineer it and produce the same. But software is software,” said Kaspersky with a shrug.Risk one: DDoS attackThere are three different levels of cyber-attack that can be carried out on a nation, according to Kaspersky.The first is a common distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack, which was routinely seen during the hacking sprees ofAnonymousandLulzsec hacktivists. The principle is simple: bombard a system with requests until it becomes overloaded and can’t cope. The victim is usually a web server, but the same technique could be used to bring down telecommunications systems including mobile phone networks. The same principle that overwhelms the mobile networks on New Years Eve could trigger a network blackout.These attacks are very difficult to defend against, and the solution is usually just to wait them out. “Unfortunately there are zero ideas, zero things to protect the critical internet, mobile and telecoms infrastructure from DDoS attacks – only plans how to recover after an attack,” explained Kaspersky.Risk two: attacking critical dataThe second type of attack is an assault on critical data. Compromising data crucial to the operation of large companies, industry, infrastructure and government, rather than an individual’s personal details.This could mean wiping data, but could also mean silently modifying data without the user’s knowledge, which could potentially cause more harm.Risk three: damaging infrastructureThe third type of attack is the most difficult to execute but also potentially the most devastating.It would involve attacking critical infrastructure to cause physical damage to systems, machines and buildings - precisely what Stuxnet was designed to achieve.‘Defence agencies are scared&apos;How can nations protect themselves against cyberterrorism that could bring a country to its knees and cause death and destruction? The answer, for Kaspersky, lies in national and international regulation.“I’m afraid that governments have different agencies, and there are agencies responsible for defence and offence. The defence agencies are scared, offence they see it as an opportunity,” said Kaspersky.Communications infrastructure is very vulnerable to attack but, instead of defence, telecoms companies can build in redundancy and speed recovery so that they can get back on track after an attack.Not even the few remaining public telephones are likely to work if the telecommunications networks come under attack. Photograph: Cultura RM/AlamyFor the things governments can protect, defence will revolve around technologies, governments and international co-operation, says Kaspersky.New platforms and secure operating systems are required to protect critical infrastructure and data, making them resilient to attacks and harder for hackers to gain entry into important systems. Governments globally, meanwhile, need to introduce regulation to dictate certain security levels around critical infrastructure.“Governments have to be advocates and sponsors for the industrial sector, for transportation, for everything, to enable enterprise to upgrade their computer systems to the most safe platforms,&quot; he said. &quot;Unfortunately that’s very complicated and very expensive, because they need to redesign all the software.&quot;‘Find the bad guys before they press the button’Kaspersky proposes three levels of regulation, only through which can a nation beef up security.The first “zone” would have little to no regulation as there is right now – “like walking in the street” – for individuals and small businesses. The second zone would be for organisations with critical data, regulating enterprise and government departments to protect data. But the third zone, for critical infrastructure, is the most important and would need to be the most secure to protect against the Stuxnets of this world.Regardless of how resilient one country can make itself, it still requires international co-operation between nations sharing intelligence, “to find the bad guys before they press the button”.“There are no nations on Earth that can sponsor the International Space Station alone, it takes collaboration,” quipped Kaspersky.“Espionage attacks [like the NSA’sPrism] are very bad because they kill trust between nations,” explained Kaspersky, who said he was sure that every nation conducts similar programmes to that of the US’s NSA and the UK’s GCHQ mass internet surveillance. “They stimulate nations to fragment the internet, to invest more into their national IT projects, which is obviously good news for the local companies, but it will damage big enterprise, global internet companies. And I’m afraid it will slow down new innovations, and cyber evolution.”“In cyberspace there is almost no distance from espionage to cyberweapons because it is very easy to upgrade one to the other at the push of a button,” warned Kaspersky.Protect the UK from cyberattackMost nations around the globe are aware of the cyberweapon threat, and have been for some time. The UK, for instance, has plans in place and under development to protect the UK from cyberattack. One of the schemes is undoubtedly the GCHQ surveillance programme, but GCHQ is supporting the UK’s cyber strike force.Operated by the Ministry of Defence (MoD) as the digital arm of the military, theJoint Forces Commandisrecruiting hackersboth into a mainstay force of the Joint Cyber Unit based at Corsham and Cheltenham, but also into a Joint Cyber Reserve similar in operation to the current army, navy and air force reserve forces like the Territorial Army.While most of the preparations for cyberwarfare are unknown, it was recently revealed that theMoD is developing a secret, multi-million-pound research programmeinto emerging technologies including the use of social media and psychological techniques harnessed to influence people&apos;s beliefs.What is clear, however, is that in Kaspersky’s opinion the world is currently ill prepared for a new wave of cyber-attacks and cyberterrorism, and that is unlikely to change overnight, especially with the global economy still reeling from the financial crisis.•Carry on leaking: when corporate security goes really, really wrong
Although gamers are being kept waiting for the first truly original titles of the &quot;next-gen&quot; console age, we can be sure that indie games will have a vital role to play.At an event in San Francisco on Wednesday, Sony&apos;s VP of developer and publisher relations Adam Boyes, revealed that more than 1,000 independent studios are now licensed to self-publish on PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4 and the PS Vita. He also said that over one hundred indie games are currently in development for the three platforms.According to Destructoid, Boyes said that 21 self-published titles have already been released on PS4, with horror adventure, Outlast, getting over 1.8m downloads and mini-Rouguelike, Don&apos;t Starve, more than 1 million. Both titles have been made available for free via the PlayStation Plus subscription service.The Ancient Greece-set scrolling adventure Apotheon – one of a dozen fresh indie titles coming to PS4 this yearAt least 12 forthcoming indie titles were also confirmed for PS4. Some of them are familiar PC and &quot;last-gen&quot; console favourites: cult roguelike platformer Spelunky is coming to the machine, complete with 1080p visuals, new daily challenges and, of course, the ability to post videos online; puzzle platformer Escape Goat 2 and local multiplayer hit, Starwhal are also coming over from PC. New titles include the ambitious sandbox space-trading gameDrifterfrom Celsius Game Studios, Ancient Greece-set platform adventure,Apotheon, and procedurally generated side-scrolling RPG,Chasm.From the announcement of PS4 last February, Sony has been keen to push the indie credentials of its machine. Several indie titles were shown during the company&apos;s E3 press conference and The Witness, a surreal adventure title from Braid creator Jonathan Blow, has been named as one of the most anticipated titles on the platform.It is not alone however. Microsoft has been similarly evangalising Xbox One as an indie-friendly device. In March the companyannounced that 25 titles would be coming to the console, courtesy of the &quot;ID@Xbox&quot; programme, which provides development resources to smaller studios. These include Super Time Force from indie star Capybara Games and surreal puzzler, QUBE Director’s Cut from Toxic Games.Super Time Force – one of the interesting indie titles just announced for Xbox OneThe indie charm offensive provides an interesting insight into the modern console industry. Both Sony and Microsoft will have seen from the massive success of Minecraft and top-selling hits like Contrast, Fez and Thomas Was Alone, that there is a huge appetite for offbeat, innovative ideas. The PC platform Steam has allowed a community of small studios to flourish, providing easy access to many millions of PC gamers – no doubt this is a model for the plans of the console manufacturers.There is also perhaps a realisation that the traditional Triple A sector is shrinking. Development costs are into the hundreds of millions of dollars now so fewer mega-budget titles are likely to be released every year. Consequently, console owners will need to be kept engaged with small, budget productions. That may mean lots of innovation, but it may also mean that favourite indie genres are able to break into the mainstream. Basically, if you didn&apos;t know what a roguelike Metroidvania crossover RPG was last year, you soon will do.• 10 indie games to look out for in 2014• Xbox One: over 30 indie developers announced
Revolution Software / PC, PSN, iOS, Android / £4.99 (smartphone), £18.99 (Steam, complete edition)There’s a moment towards the end of The Serpent’s Curse when the game confronts you with a stark choice. A villain is jabbing a pistol in protagonist George Stobbart’s ribcage and demanding he solve the riddle of a powerful artefact’s whereabouts. You know it’s in George’s large pockets. Time for truth or bluff: what’s it gonna be?This being Broken Sword, it makes no difference. Both options end with somebody shot, the artefact stolen and George imprisoned. If you know the series, none of this is a spoiler. Nothing you did in episode one will change what happens here one iota and every action you take subsequently follows the same pattern. The presentation of choice in Telltale titles may be so much smoke and mirrors, but Revolution Software barely bothers with the illusion. Fans will love this homage to old school adventure games, but the failure to fix ancient problems with the genre will inevitably restrict its appeal.Still, it ups the ante considerably from episode one. Whereas the plot and puzzles previously felt a little tame, this sets off at a cracking pace which is mostly maintained until its satisfyingly bonkers conclusion. We left our heroes George and Nico trapped atop a burning building in London and, while surprisingly there’s no puzzle to solve this, the action quickly moves to a Catalonian villa complete with a crazy man shooting indiscriminately. Adding to the sense of peril is the swift reappearance of George’s nemesis: the goat (to the uninitiated, think Sideshow Bob and rakes).Besting the goat and bullets requires some lateral thinking before you get to explore the house and tackle some more meaty puzzles, and there’s a much better balance of physical challenges and code-breaking this time around. Some of the latter puzzles stumped me so badly I had to dip into the excellent tips tool for help, but they’re never illogical. The backgrounds remain so delightfully drawn you won’t mind gazing while you concoct a solution anyway, although the continued absence of hotspot-highlighting means you will have to comb them on occasions. I got stuck during the finale owing to my failure to find the vital crack in the wall.Slow but sureThis sequence also flags-up the perennially sluggish character movement, with Nico seemingly tiptoeing towards saving the world. Animation is improved and I noticed fewer bugs, but the requirement to move to a precise spot for dialogue is a recurring irritation. Thankfully, the writing justifies the wait. There are better jokes, better delivered, with a particularly wry take on the genre’s quirks. One scene sees Nico, hanging from a cable car, mention Chelsea football club to disprove a goon’s theory of determinism and prevent him killing you. Jose Mourinho himself would appreciate those dark arts. Nico’s vocal performance also flourishes after a slight hesitancy in episode one. The interplay between her and George is better than ever, a beautifully judged mix of eye-rolling, sarcasm and sexual tension, ably assisted by having to insist to every oddball they meet that they’re not an item.These oddballs, including some old friends, do a fine job of fleshing out the epic narrative. After the murder mystery of episode one, this marks a welcome return to the series’ mystic roots. Guided by Gnostics, you must ultimately venture to the Garden of Eden and prevent Lucifer destroying Jehovah, because balance. The only letdown is the cast of human foes, with the big bad’s motivations for plunging the world into chaos merely hinted at. He also might as well ape Dr Evil in shouting &quot;begin the unnecessarily slow-moving dipping mechanism&quot; given the way he inexplicably lets you live right before swanning off and leaving you to your fate.In such ways, Broken Sword is a fine tribute to old fashioned storytelling, as well as the adventure genre itself. It’s fun to poke fun at such tropes, but if the developers had improved them too this could have marked a breakout game. As it stands, while highly enjoyable, it’s strictly for fans. Hopefully they waited for both parts to be available: the decision to split it remains pig-headed and it undoubtedly works best as a coherent whole. Still, if you played and enjoyed part one, this is an admirable conclusion to a loveable series.• Broken Sword: The Serpent&apos;s Curse, Part One – review• Broken Sword 5: The Serpent&apos;s Curse announced as Kickstarter project
Streaming music service Bloom.fm has shut down, after its main investor pulled out suddenly.The company, whose smartphone app had signed up more than 1.1m users in the UK since its launch in January 2013,announced the news in a blog post.&quot;We’ll keep this short because we’re pretty shell-shocked. It’s game over for Bloom.fm. Our investor, who’s been along for the ride since day one, has unexpectedly pulled our funding. It’s come so out of the blue that we don’t have time to find new investment,&quot; explained the post.&quot;So, with enormous regret, we have to shut up shop. This is a poetically crappy turn of events as our young business was showing real promise. Our apps and web player are looking super-nice and we had 1,158,914 registered users in a little over a year.&quot;Bloom.fm&apos;s investor was Russian broadcaster TNT, which had backed the firm since its previous incarnation as music downloads store mFlow, which launched in 2010 then shut down in 2011, with the company subsequently pivoting to a mobile streaming model.Bloom.fm chief executive Oleg Fomenko said that the main reason for TNT pulling out now is &quot;organisation change on the side of our investors&quot;, but also cited the difficulties of balancing the books with Bloom.fm&apos;s royalty payouts to music rightsholders.&quot;Underlying this decision is economics - there is no business case at the moment in licensed digital music - margins are too low and up-front and growth costs are too high. The solution is a massive scale that then will allow for re-distribution of margins in the value chain,&quot; he said in an email.&quot;Most consumers are not willing to pay existing prices and you can see this in dominance of YouTube and by popularity of totally free ways of listening to music on the mobile, so we do hope that someone will re-start to offer truly mass-market streaming options soon. I am very saddened that it will not be Bloom.fm.&quot;The company&apos;s app enabled users to stream personalised radio channels – streams of music based on their favourite genres and previous listening habits – for free. They could then choose to pay £1, £5 or £10 a month to cache varying numbers of songs on their phone for on-demand, offline listening.Bloom.fm had licensing deals with several major labels, although it had been in lengthy negotiations with UK collecting society PRS for Music over royalties due to publishers and songwriters which, if backdated, could have been a big bill for the company – and by extension its main investor – to foot.At the time of its closure, Bloom.fm was preparing to launch a web version of its service, which had been in closed beta for several months. The company also made headlines recently when it revealed that it had beenbanned by Apple from using its iAd mobile advertising network.&quot;They stopped us advertising a few weeks ago and we were unclear why. Then we received an email from our marketing agency saying that it was against their policy to advertise competing services,&quot; Bloom.fm marketing director Jon Clark told The Guardian at the time.Bloom.fm won&apos;t now be around long enough to compete with Apple&apos;s own personal radio service, iTunes Radio, when it launches in the UK.•Bloom.fm review: &apos;Stylish design and innovative pricing model&apos;•Streaming good for labels, but are they good for streaming?
As 2012 drew to a close, I was 94kg and miserable, after a slow-but-steady decline into a classic case of blogger’s physique.It was the inevitable result of unhealthy eating habits and an overly sedentary lifestyle, punctuated by occasional, forlorn attempts to cultivate a gym habit. I was unfit, unhappy and frequently unable to walk out of a newsagent’s without a big bag of crisps.Cue technology. As a latest resort, in January 2013 I bought a Fitbit One activity tracker and installed its app onto my smartphone, along with MyFitnessPal to track my calories intake, and RunKeeper to track exercise.Out with the Quavers, and in withThe Quantified Self. And it worked: by the summer of 2013, I was 84kg and happy. I went to the gym two or three times a week, ate healthily, worked at a standing desk, and occasionally spent a couple of minutes in front of the bedroom mirror gawping at my newly rediscovered angularities.Oh, and I was smug about it. Quite a few friends and colleagues complimented me on my weight loss, to which I’d blush and say that I wasn’t going to become one of those people who bang on about how apps and gadgets have revolutionised their fitness. Usually going on to bang on (a bit) about exactly this.I was a quantified smug. And it’s pretty much at that point that things started to slide.Fast forward to April 2014, and I weigh 94kg again. MyFitnessPal and RunKeeper are gathering digital dust on my homescreen, and while the Fitbit One is still tracking my steps diligently, its app is equally unloved.The salads and cereals are once again jostling with crisps, chocolate, late-night pasties, wine and cider in my diet. The standing desk is still standing, but some days I take my computer off it because I feel a bit of a fraud using it.I don’t look in the mirror much, but occasionally one of my sons cackles to the other about “Daddy hatching a baby”, which is certainly a new spin on motivational encouragement.I now feel like a quantified mug. But is this a case of the human letting down the technology, or the technology letting down the human?The answer is a bit of both: tracking numbers can get you so far, but in the longer term, they can only work hand-in-hand with the human doing the tracking. What I’ve learned, belatedly, is that apps and gadgets are not what made me get fit.Instead, they were important, motivating tools to track my progress on the way up to a healthier place, but didn’t help much as I slid down the other side. There are lessons here for the next generation of fitness tech products.Lesson one, which is a personal one: for me, unhealthy eating and drinking is about stress. Like many freelance journalists, I tend to slip into a cycle of taking on too much work (which brings stress about the workload) then swinging back to a period of … less work (less stressful initially, but usually culminating in money-worry headaches).On a bad day with an overflowing inbox and a forgotten deadline or two, I’m just a few steps from my kitchen. I’ll often find myself there absent-mindedly chomping down whatever food comes to hand, as a short-term cure for the tight knot of tension in my stomach. It just happens, usually – often I don’t even notice myself taking those few steps.Drink? Too much sugary tea (and if I’m out, Coca-Cola) in the daytime, and wine or cider in the evenings: not quite in liver-bothering quantities, but certainly at middle-thickening levels.The first six months of 2013 coincided with a less-work period – thus generally positive thoughts about healthy eating and exercise, as well as time free for the latter. Come summer, as money fear led to more work (and stress), crisps, cider and chips made a triumphant, belching return to my diet.•CES 2014: best wearable smart watches and fitness gadgets•RunKeeper talks smart watches, iPhone 5s and privacy issues•Fitbit talks fitness tracking and healthy apps ecosystemsNone of this is a big surprise. Man starts getting fit in January, enjoys initial success then falls clunkingly off the wagon? It’s hardly an unknown phenomenon. Apps can’t cure stress or stop you taking on too much work. Again, not a shock. Cider remains God&apos;s own drink. But noting that it lets the devil loose on your waistline is no revelation.My experience – and desperately hopeful that I’m not alone – is a reminder that the current generation of fitness tech is just a step in the right direction.A lot of us are doing it:use of sports, health and fitness apps grew by 49% on iOS and Android in 2013, according to mobile analytics firm Flurry. A recent study by research company Kantar Media claimed25% of smartphone owners are using their device to track their health, diet or exercise.Another research firm, NPD Group, claims thatthe “digital fitness” category was worth more than $330m in 2013. Yet – I knew it wasn’t just me – asurvey in 2013 by Euromonitorfound that while 25% of respondents had downloaded a fitness app, less than 6% reported using it on a daily basis.Fitbit, RunKeeper, MyFitnessPal and their rivals are working hard on new features, and some big players are entering the market – see speculation about Nike teaming up with Apple for the latter’s long-rumoured smart watch, and Facebook’s recent acquisition of fitness app Moves.There is no shortage of clever tech ways to track your eating and activity. The next challenge is to apply them in ways that help you when you’re wobbling, rather than just when you’re fired up with enthusiasm.RunKeeper has clearly been thinking about this, even if its cheery “Hey! You used to work out around this time!” style of encouragement isn’t, in my experience, super motivating when you’re nose-deep in a packet of Monster Munch.Human willpower can’t be taken for granted, and while exercise IS a good solution to stress, that’s often forgotten by a stressed person. As a side note, too, the very device that sits at the centre of our self-quantification – the smartphone – is arguably doing the most to erode our work/life balance as a notification-barraging enabler for our willingness to be online round the clock.The most important lesson is to resist the temptation to see technology alone as a solution for our fitness issues. It’s about humans – including the underlying lifestyle issues that contribute to unfitness and/or unhappiness in the first place – and about the humans around us providing support when we wobble. Ideally with less of the baby-hatching merriment.This week, I went back to the gym, remembered how to enter wholemeal toast into MyFitnessPal – well, remembered wholemeal toast as a concept, if I’m honest –avoided a four-pack of Scrumpy falling into my shopping basket, and sat down to think hard about managing my workload.Technology will still be playing a role in my efforts to get fit, but it’s not the solution. I am the solution, hopefully. But not in a smug way.• What are your experiences with fitness-tracking technology? Share your tips for staying on the wagon, or the lessons you&apos;ve learned from toppling off, in the comments section
Nick Pickles, director of the Big Brother Watch pressure group, is leaving to join Twitter as UK public policy manager.Pickles, a former Tory parliamentary candidate who joined the group in September 2011, has been a highly visible figure in its campaigning. He gave evidence to both the UK and European parliaments and represented it at events in the UK, Europe and US.A music photographer, Pickles has pointed toconcerns that BT is handing over customer datato spy agencies, thebroadening extent of automatic numberplate recognition on British roads, and alsocriticised Googleover changes it made in 2012 to its privacy policies.“The past two and a half years have been an incredible experience, working with some remarkable people across the political spectrum and making major contributions to a range of debates about privacy, civil liberties, surveillance reform and freedom of speech,&quot; said Pickles in a statement.&quot;It has been a joy to celebrate our many successes with the team and our supporters and work alongside Matthew [Elliott, the group&apos;s founder], one of the best in campaigners in the business. I look forward to the many successes yet to come. At a time when the future of privacy and free speech online are high on the agenda it is very exciting to be joining Twitter.”Emma Carr, who was deputy director, will take over as acting director while a replacement is sought.Big Brother Watch was founded in 2009 by Elliott as part of a campaign against what was then seen as growing threats of physical and virtual surveillance. Its official launch came in January 2010.Elliott said: &quot;Big Brother Watch’s profile and reputation is formidable, commanding both media and political attention. Nick’s work has been instrumental in achieving this, but also in ensuring the group is set up for the long term.&quot;Pickles will now become part of the BBW advisory council, whose members include Alex Deane, who was the group&apos;s first director, David Davis MP, Henry Porter, the campaigning journalist Heather Brooke, Dominic Raab MP and Lord Strasburger.The group is now seeking a new director, and says that it will begin the recruitment process formally after the European elections in May.“With the establishment of an advisory council, financial security and a long-serving team taking forward Big Brother Watch is an enviable opportunity and I am looking forward to seeing a high calibre of CVs,&quot; said Elliott.•Twitter shares drop on fears of &apos;stalling&apos; growth• This article was changed on 1 May. It previously incorrectly stated that Matthew Elliott was a former Tory parliamentary candidate. This has been amended.
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSamsung Galaxy S5 cameras are failing: here's how to handle it &gt;&gt; WSJ blogsSamsung's flagship Galaxy S5 is having some serious camera problems. After about two weeks on the market, an undisclosed number of Galaxy S5 smartphones are experiencing camera glitches that render the smartphone's shooter useless."We have learned that a limited number of Galaxy S5 devices may have an issue that causes 'Camera Failure' pop-up error message," a Samsung spokeswoman told the Journal in an email. "We ask that customers affected call 1-888-987-4357 or visit their carrier for service under Samsung's standard limited warranty."Unclear whether no non-US models are affected.Long thread on XDA; apparently if the phone has it, you need a replacement.iPhone 5 sleep/wake button replacement program &gt;&gt; Apple SupportApple has determined that the sleep/wake button mechanism on a small percentage of iPhone 5 models may stop working or work intermittently.  iPhone 5 models manufactured through March 2013 may be affected by this issue.Apple will replace the sleep/wake button mechanism, free of charge, on iPhone 5 models that exhibit this issue and have a qualifying serial number.Started 25 April in US and Canada; starts 2 May elsewhere. Loan phones available. It's like cars, isn't it.Hands on with Acer's Aspire Switch 10 &gt;&gt; ComputerworldAcer's dual-purpose Aspire Switch 10 can function as a Windows 8 tablet and laptop, but the shape-shifting product's uniqueness is in its magnetic keyboard base, an element not found on other hybrid devices.The Aspire Switch 10 is first a tablet, but it can be attached in multiple ways to a keyboard base, so it can be used as a laptop or as a screen to conduct video chats or watch movies. The keyboard base has a rotating roller with snap-on hinges and magnets that allow the tablet to be placed in multiple positions.During a brief hands-on test at an event in New York, the tablet securely snapped on to the hard keyboard dock base. The tablet can also be docked to the base in the opposite direction, which Acer calls "display mode." It also can adopt a reverse V shape, which the company calls "tent mode."Only one camera (front-facing); including the keyboard dock, it's 1.2kg. US pricing will start at $379.Programming sucks &gt;&gt; StilldrinkingPeter Welch:Every programmer occasionally, when nobody's home, turns off the lights, pours a glass of scotch, puts on some light German electronica, and opens up a file on their computer. It's a different file for every programmer. Sometimes they wrote it, sometimes they found it and knew they had to save it. They read over the lines, and weep at their beauty, then the tears turn bitter as they remember the rest of the files and the inevitable collapse of all that is good and true in the world.This file is Good Code. It has sensible and consistent names for functions and variables. It's concise. It doesn't do anything obviously stupid. It has never had to live in the wild, or answer to a sales team. It does exactly one, mundane, specific thing, and it does it well. It was written by a single person, and never touched by another. It reads like poetry written by someone over thirty.Every programmer starts out writing some perfect little snowflake like this.But then....Jeffrey Katzenberg predicts three-week theatrical window in future &gt;&gt; VarietyDreamWorks Animation chief Jeffrey Katzenberg thinks the windowing model of feature films will become a "pay by the inch you watch." During the Entrepreneurial Leadership in the Corporate World panel at the Milken Global Conference in Beverly Hills, Katzenberg explained what he thinks is the future of scheduling and distributing feature films."I think the model will change and you won't pay for the window of availability. A movie will come out and you will have 17 days, that's exactly three weekends, which is 95% of the revenue for 98% of movies. On the 18th day, these movies will be available everywhere ubiquitously and you will pay for the size. A movie screen will be $15. A 75" TV will be $4.00. A smartphone will be $1.99. That enterprise that will exist throughout the world, when that happens, and it will happen, it will reinvent the enterprise of movies," he told the crowd.Digitimes Research: Global tablet shipments to rise in 2Q14There will be 61.42m tablets shipped globally in the second quarter of 2014, increasing 4.9% on quarter and 30.9% on year, according to Digitimes Research.The shipments will consist of 13.5m iPads, 24.62m non-Apple tablets and 23.3m white-box units, Digitimes Research indicated.Apple will be the largest vendor accounting for 22% of second-quarter shipments, followed by Samsung Electronics with 20%, Asustek Computer 6.3%, Lenovo 6.1% and Acer 1.7%. Android models will account for 58.9% of the shipments, iOS 35.4% and Windows 5.7%. In terms of screen size, 7in models will take up 21.7% of the shipments, 7.9in 15.4%, 8.0- to 8.9in 18.4%, 9.0- to 9.9in 20.7%, 10.0- to 10.9in 21.7%, and 11in and above 2.1%.Not clear how Apple can be 22% of shipments while iOS makes up 35.4%. (But the figures for the 7.9in and 9.0-9.9in models seem to support the latter.)Only the lonely: my nights out with Google Glass &gt;&gt; Re/codeNellie Bowles was assigned by her editors to go and try out Google Glass in San Francisco (and "try not to get hit"):The other bartender, Adam, walked over. It was almost midnight on a rainy Tuesday night, so there wasn't much action."There's nothing inherently bad about them, unless we catch you videotaping in the men's bathroom or something, but they're weird as shit," Adam opined about Glass. "That you'd need this on your face, to me, is just inherently idiotic. I'm not a doomsday prepper, but I do think it's vastly unimportant, all this antisocial tech. It's dull."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
I&apos;m partially responsible, I guess. Looking back, I can see that now. The mainstream video games industry is in a narrative rut, with worn science fiction and fantasy cliches and insular tropes. As a writer and gamer, I should challenge these things, but sometimes, out of habit or exhaustion, they are allowed to sneak past.This week I wrote a feature about Destiny, the forthcoming space opera from Bungie. I had fun with the short hands-on demo, and enjoyed the game&apos;s complex interlocking upgrade systems, but I brushed aside its, let&apos;s say, &quot;familiar&quot; plot of alien forces vying over the fate of mankind. Then I read Patricia Hernandez on Kotaku,taking the game to taskfor its achingly conservative sci-fi set-up, and I realised I just let all of that fade into the background because, well, science fiction games are… science fiction games. Man making a desperate stand against overwhelming alien forces; a fresh attempt to rebuild a galactic empire.I recognise that there are many gamers who absolutely buy into each title&apos;s individual interpretations of science fiction and fantasy lore. There are plenty of gamers who can tell you why the universe in Dragon&apos;s Age is very different from the one in Dark Souls, or Fable, or Runescape. There are myriad narrative sub-genres separating Mass Effect from Killzone, and Gears of War from Vanquish. Fans have developed an esoteric language of skill trees, buffs and area-of-effect weaponry to delineate between titles and styles and functions.In the Middle Earth of it allBut then, the traditional RPG is still rooted in the staid, sexless world of Tolkien; the sci-fi blaster still hankers after the epic imperialist space wars imagined by Heinlein and E E Smith. As I mentioned inmy feature on developers and books, the tastes and influences of the western industry are homogenised into a few sacred texts. And beside them the cinematic overlords of Star Wars, Blade Runner and Aliens.At GDC last year, the game designer Chris Hecker took to the stage during the event&apos;s popular Developer&apos;s Rant sessions and delivered the following wordless talk:Chris Hecker's "Fair Use" talk from GDC 2013His message couldn&apos;t have clearer: when developers say &quot;taking design in entirely new directions&quot;, they often really mean &quot;we have a new type of dragon&quot;; when they say, &quot;this is a game with complex moral choices&quot;, they mean &quot;this is a game where you have to choose whether you do the good thing or the bad thing … but you&apos;ll lose points if you do the bad thing.&quot;I spend a lot of time telling people of my age that games have changed. Then I sort of have to admit that a lot of them haven&apos;t. The same long swords and orcs and elves and Joseph Campbell-inspired mythic quests; the same assault rifles and shotguns; the same hulking space monsters and armour-plated hetero-heroes; the same lazy representations – or non-representations – of women. I&apos;m not sure I can face playing another game with a twentysomething lead character sporting tattoos, a buzz cut and a bad attitude. I certainly couldn&apos;t face Infamous: Second Son.The pactIt&apos;s sort of the fault of gamers, like me, who don&apos;t go for this sort of thing yet don&apos;t do enough to question it all. But then in our defence, it&apos;s like cinema in a way. When we go to a Hollywood blockbuster, we know what we will get, and we make an unspoken pact with the director: just don&apos;t bore me. I don&apos;t mind the cruddy dialogue, the creaking attitudes toward sex, race and gender, the laughable depiction of other cultures … just don&apos;t bore me. Sometimes I think we make that same pact with game developers.Just don&apos;t bore me.Hernandez is bored with what Destiny represents. I&apos;m not there yet, but I read her article several times and saw in it a glimpse of an attitude perhaps every game writer should have – not one of weary resignation, but of creeping intolerance. In a lot of ways, things need to change.The Kane gangA few years ago people started asking, where is the Citizen Kane of games? They meant, where is the game that really challenges the status quo, that modernises it, that explodes old-assumptions about what the medium can do. The question became so common it&apos;s now a joke. But it&apos;s a joke with an edge. Because although there are plenty of candidates, what the question is really asking about games and art and respect, is a long way from what is happening.Whatcanhappen? What small steps forward can be made? Well, take Game of Thrones. George R R Martin is only one of a number of authors who have sought to re-think the fantasy genre, but he is the most high profile, so a good place to start. While Tolkien based Middle Earth on a range of folkloric and religious texts, Martin wanted to analyse human nature at the extremes of unchecked power. His work is said to be grounded in history, in the violent and perverse world of the Plantagenet and Tudor courts, in the intricate struggles for authority, land and sex that shaped medieval life. In Game of Thrones, there are no heroes battering evil orcs; just men and women scrabbling for power and murdering those unfortunate enough to get in their way.There are other exciting voices in this genre. The likes of Nnedi Okorafor and Mark Lawrence, or the more leftfield Paul Cornell and Nicola Griffith. As for sci-fi, we can look to Iain M Banks and the culture novels, or to the socio-political dread of Philip K Dick, or to JG Ballard&apos;s apocalypticpsychedelia, or the gender wars envisioned by Ursula K Le Guin or Margaret Atwood. I have no doubt at all that designers are reading these books and many more besides, but their influence isn&apos;t making it into game stories – and if they are, they are muted to such a degree that all resonance is lost.Signs of lifeI don&apos;t care about the end of mankind, or the dragon on the hill surrounded by gold. I just don&apos;t. I&apos;m older now, and so are many other gamers; I haven&apos;t read Tolkien for years. I never want to again. But I love games that tell singular stories with enough room for the ambiguities of adulthood. There were signs of all this in Last of Us, of course, in the seams of the flawed Bioshock: Infinite, in the darkness enveloping Dishonored. Back further we can trace the tendrils of narrative possibility in Deus Ex; the complex mecha-human relationship twisting through Portal. And from the indie sector, the paranoia of Ether-One, the technicolourarmageddon of Bastion. There is true terror too: just look at Dead Space, Alien: Isolation and the Witcher series. Terror and darkness and loneliness – all of them can be beautifully explored in the form of demons and extraterrestrials without having to invoke the death of the human race, or the might of million-strong armies fighting thousand-year wars.I really want to play Destiny more, it is a vast and intricate undertaking; Bungie are passionate and clever people – and I still do like shooting stuff. But if I&apos;m really honest, I know I&apos;ve had enough of saving mankind; I&apos;ve had enough of space monsters and muscular men doing what they have to do, you know, because humanity.Ah humanity.The problem with the epic fantasy and science-fiction narratives in many mainstream games is that, almost by definition, they pan out too far from the pain and pleasure of individual life. &quot;We want to wrestle with the big themes,&quot; say developers, but mankind versus aliens isn&apos;t a big theme. Here are some big themes. A violent parent versus a cowering child; a woman terrified by her aggressive husband, a boy falling in love with another boy, or anyone falling in love with anything, anywhere in time. All of us face obstacles greater than picking up a hyper shotgun and blasting a Level 12 Shock Trooper in the face – and most of them can be thrillingly explored through the lens of SF and fantasy. There are amazing personal and emotional stories to be told in these genres.This is something else about Game of Thrones. It has been brought to the screen in a golden era of television. The life would have been crushed out of it as a movie, or even as a movie trilogy, but as a television series, there is time and space for intrigue and interplay. Mainstream games perhaps need to stop looking at film and start studying Dexter, Breaking Bad, Fringe, The Shield or Fargo. They need to give gamers the chance to grow into an intimate story experience and really inhabit it. (Game critic Jed Pressgrove pointed me toward this great feature aboutwhat games can learn from televisionon US blog SevenCut.)I&apos;m not saying all games should be soap operas or human dramas (and there is always going to be a market for, and developers of, pure escapist entertainment – don&apos;t fret about that), just that to truly push things, blockbusting mainstream games need to be infused with day-to-day humanity – and that they need to be about real, relatable struggles. Or, OK, they need to represent all of us; not just those of us who aspire to have buzz cuts and tattoos and rocket launchers. Some of us don&apos;t even want to be good.I have nothing against humanity, but enough already. As Anthony Burch, writer of Borderlands 2, recently tweeted: &quot;If the operative theme of your work is &apos;good v evil&apos; or &apos;light v dark&apos; what the fuck are you doing?&quot;• Destiny – how the makers of Halo plan to change the future of shooters• The Last of Us, Bioshock: Infinite and why all video game dystopias work the same way
It's Thursday.
British internet-of-things startup Evrythng has secured a $7m Series A round, including investment both financial and in-kind from US networking giant Cisco.Evrythng is one of a wave of British startups attempting to change the face of retail. The company&apos;s plan is ambitious: giving every single object in the world a unique web-addressable URL.The prototypes in Evrythng&apos;s offices in Clerkenwell, London, use QR codes and RFID chips to achieve the goal, and show just some of the possibilities that having such a widely networked world could bring: examples include bottles of whisky that can have promotions personalised to the location or time they were bought, or biscuits that can automatically redeem a free coffee on purchase from a machine at the till.But the benefits of giving everything a unique address potentially go far further. For instance, Evrythng offers a way to solve the smart fridge problem – the issue that smart fridges don&apos;t work without smart food, and smart food won&apos;t be sold without smart fridges.If manufacturers start putting unique RFID chips in individual products to enable promotions and analytics, smart fridges could take advantage of that to warn owners when food is about to go off or run out.&quot;The internet of things will affect every aspect of business operations and customer experience,&quot; says Niall Murphy, the company&apos;s co-founder and CEO. &quot;The investment allows us to accelerate our mission to connect every individual product to the web with its own intelligent online identity, working with global product manufacturer and retail brands.&quot;Cisco&apos;s vice president of corporate development, Yoav Samet, said that the company was &quot;excited about the applications Evrythng provides to give products a presence on the web. Their efforts support our goal to connect the unconnected.&quot;Cisco has previously estimated that the internet of things will contain 50bn &quot;things&quot; by 2020, and lead to a market worth $19 trillion (£11.2tn) . &quot;The internet of everything provides the platform from which an ever-increasing number of connections will ‘wake-up’ the world around us,&quot; said the company&apos;s UK chief, Phil Smith.&quot;With just 1% of the physical world connected at this time, this is just the beginning of an amazing future. As connections become smarter, faster and more insightful, we will only see more imaginative and ambitious applications of the internet of everything which will quite literally change the world.&quot;•Ten things you need to know about the internet of things
Users of the Comixology app have reacted furiously to the removal of in-app purchases on Android and iOS, just weeks after it was acquired by Amazon.Many comics creators have also reacted negatively to the change, pointing out that it removes one of the best ways for enticing new readers in to the medium.The change means users of Comixology&apos;s iOS app have to make purchases using their web browser, either on their mobile device or a separate computer. Previously, they could simply click &quot;buy&quot; in the same app they used to read comics.On the Android app, there are still payment options within the reader, but Google Checkout integration has been removed; users have to pay with either a stored credit card or Paypal.Readers and artists blamed Amazon for the move, which avoids the 30% levy charged by Apple and Google on in-app purchases, but adds inconvenience for readers.&quot;Effective immediately,&quot;wrote Mark Waid, author of Superman, Daredevil and creator-owned hit Irredeemable, &quot;the iOS app was being retired and replaced with one that stripped out (a) the easy, one-tap ability to make in-app purchases, (b) referrals to other comics you might also like to buy with one button-tap, (c) any indication of what you ought to read next if you were in the middle of a multi-issue storyline, and (d) everything that made the Comixology app a gateway for new and casual readers of comics.&quot;Gerry Conway, the artist of some of the most iconic issues of Amazing Spider-Man and co-creator of the Punisher, concurred. &quot;I became a regular reader because the store was right there, on the corner, and it was easy… You don’t make quick entertainment hard to access. You make it simple and easy — an impulse buy. Comixology’s in-app storefront did that.&quot;By forcing readers to leave the app,&quot; Conway continued, &quot;Comixology has replaced what was a quick, simple, intuitive impulse purchase experience with a cumbersome multi-step process that will provide multiple opportunities along the path for the casual reader to think twice and decide, ah, never mind, I don’t really want to try that new book after all&quot;Comixology has not returned requests for comment, but given the timing of its acquisition, many – including Conway and Waid – believe the decision was, in the words of Waid, &quot;handed down either by Amazon or Apple&quot;. It&apos;s unclear how any decision from Apple would have obliged Comixology to change the behaviour of the Android app.In July 2011, Amazon made a similar change to its Kindle app, removing access to the Kindle store to comply with Apple&apos;s regulations on in-app purchases, which require companies to offer Apple&apos;s own in-app purchase method in addition to any other payment method with every app.•Comixology tells customers their comics are safe after Amazon acquisition
This week on Tech Weekly with games editorKeith Stuartwe take a look at an emerging trend in games, where smartphones and cutting-edge robotics are used to create more socially inclusive and dynamic games.Joining Keith is Guardian writerAlex Hern;Iain Simons, director of theGameCity festival; andJonathan Smith, games producer forLego.The panel discuss why the screen is only a part of the gaming experience – and why small-scale, cheap robotics will open up a new world for developers.Also this week: Guardian tech writerSamuel GibbsmeetsIan Bernstein, co-creator of the robotic toy ball theSphero, to find out about the evolution of the robot in gaming.
Remember those far-off days when you were the only person who had a smartphone, and it seemed like everyone else had a clunky mobile phone? You were the one who could pick up email and even browse the web a bit, or run apps you&apos;d downloaded from an online store.But in the intervening years, it now seems like everyone has got one, and what was unusual has become commonplace. Not just that, but that the number of people who have switched from an old &quot;featurephone&quot; to a smartphone has accelerated in the past few years.It&apos;s true: that&apos;s what has happened. In the UK (and US, and other countries), smartphones are approaching &quot;saturation&quot; - the point where there are no new users to be converted to using them.But when is saturation going to occur? And how many people will it involve? Thanks to data shared exclusively with the Guardian by Kantar ComTech, we can look at how the proportion of people with smartphones has grown over time - and make some predictions about when, and at what level, &quot;saturation&quot; will be reached.Kantar ComTech&apos;s data goes back to October 2004 (when smartphone ownership was a dramatic 1.6%) and is gathered from a representative panel of users.Presently, about 71% of UK consumer phone users have a smartphone, according to Kantar&apos;s data, and 84% of phones sold are ranked as &quot;smart&quot;. (From which you can infer that featurephone owners are less regular buyers.)But will that turn to 100%? How big is &quot;saturation&quot;?The adoption of most technologies follows what is called the &quot;logistic function&quot; - an S-shaped curve that is mathematically related to the more familiar &quot;bellgaussian curve&quot; (the logistic curve is theintegral of the gaussian curve). Adoption starts slowly, and then takes off, before slowing down again as you near the point where everyone who wants the gizmo has it. At that point, you&apos;re in a replacement market - there are no new buyers, only existing buyers getting a new version of the product.The logistic curve (in yellow) and its derivative, the 'bell curve'. The logistic curve is used to describe the adoption of new technologies, among other uses. Photograph: WikipediaThis is how the group is usually split: there are 2.5% of &quot;innovators&quot; (which in the case of UK smartphones lasted to November 2005), &quot;early adopters&quot; (taking you to 16% penetration, or about November 2009), &quot;early majority&quot; (taking you to 50%, passed in February 2012 by Kantar&apos;s figures), &quot;late majority&quot; (taking you to 84% - a stage that we&apos;re still in), and finally the &quot;laggards&quot; who make up the remaining 16%.Given a dataset, you can fit it to a forecast. There are two ways to do this: one is to use a generator such asAreppim&apos;s S-curve calculator, feeding it various data points and trying to get the best fit. I did this a number of times, as below:A series of attempts to find a best fit to Kantar's UK smartphone penetration data using Areppim's S-curve calculator. The best fit (in blue) suggests a peak of 92% saturation. Photograph: /The GuardianOr you can use the dataset that you have, and calculate the logarithm of the penetration to find a best fit equation. (Thanks to Horace Dediu at Asymco who explained how to do this: the precise equation, where P is the penetration and S the eventual saturation ratio, is y = log (P/(S-P)).) I used S= 1. That gives a graph which looks like this - which you can then take the antilog of, to create theoretical penetration figures.Finding a fit: taking the logarithm of UK smartphone penetration allows one to create a "best-fit" equation (shown on the graph). Photograph: The GuardianFrom that, you can create a forecast of the point where we&apos;ll reach &quot;saturation&quot;. I found that the best fit using Areppim was an eventual level of 92% penetration; the alternative logarithm-based method doesn&apos;t give an upper limit (because the upper level tails away asymptotically).Actual data (black line) and two forecast lines for UK smartphone penetration. Raw data: Kantar. Calculation: The Guardian. Photograph: The GuardianThe lines don&apos;t overlap perfectly. But both methods agree pretty well on some milestones. The 80% penetration mark will be reached by January 2015. They don&apos;t agree so well on the 90% mark - the level at which most innovations are reckoned to have become &quot;saturated&quot;: the &quot;logarithmic&quot; model suggests 90% will be reached by July 2016, while the &quot;best fit&quot; model from Areppim suggests that won&apos;t happen until January 2018 (partly because that curve assumes a 92% ceiling on penetration).What does Kantar think? Dominic Sunnebo, its research director who provided the data, says that there are definitely a number of smartphone holdouts who will remain that way for a long time. The graph below graph shows the answers of this group (featurephone owners) to the question: &quot;Do you plan to buy a Smartphone when you change your mobile?&quot; conducted by Kantar:Answers from featurephone owners to the question 'When you next buy a phone, will it be a smartphone?'. A clear 9% say no. Photograph: Kantar ComTechThat clearly shows 9% who simply don&apos;t intend to get a smartphone. &quot;The last forecast I did took this into account and suggested smartphone penetration would reach a ceiling in Q3 2017 at 91%,&quot; Sunnebo told me. That&apos;s slightly ahead of the penetration forecast by the Areppim calculation (which puts it at around 89% then) and slightly behind the logarithm forecast (of 95%).Separately, Dediu has donesimilar calculations for the US, using publicly available data from ComScore. He&apos;sforecastingthat the US will hit 90% penetration of smartphones by adults over 13 for their own choice of phone by December 2016.Contract and PAYGBut who are the smartphone holdouts? Are they refuseniks, or featurephone sticklers? According to data from the mobile operators, most featurephone users are on pay-as-you-go plans. The contrast between contract customers and PAYG customers in terms of smartphone penetration is marked.At the end of 2013:• At EE, the UK&apos;s largest operator with 26 million subscribers, 90% of contract customers had smartphones; but they make up only 60% of its customers• At O2, with 23.6 million subscribers, (54% on contract), smartphone penetration was 49% overall• At Vodafone, 77% of contract subscribers have smartphones; but they&apos;re only 40.5% of the total - most of its customers are PAYG• At Three, 94% of all its phone customers are on smartphones (though it is the UK&apos;s smallest operator)Disagreeing with dataHowever it&apos;s worth remembering that theoretical forecasts are just that - theoretical. As the graph shows, the actual data doesn&apos;t always agree with what theory suggests - and that&apos;s because of obvious external factors.Detail showing actual (black) v forecast (green and yellow lines) UK smartphone penetration, with December period marked. It diverges notably in some years. Photograph: /Kantar ComTech/The GuardianThis is a detail from the &quot;three lines&quot; graph above, showing black vertical lines for each of the December periods (Kantar collected the information in four-week samples). That&apos;s when you&apos;d expect significant upticks in penetration, because that&apos;s the biggest month for buying. But in 2008, actual penetration clearly lagged significantly behind theory. The reason is obvious: there was a global recession on, and people weren&apos;t confident about splashing out.By contrast, in the next four years - 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 - actual penetration was ahead of theory, bolstering the idea that there&apos;s a &quot;Christmas effect&quot;.Yet 2013 shows the black line (actual data) falling behind the theory again. And data from GfK shows that the phone market is actually shrinking - and has been doing so, apart from the occasional uplift, for some time. GfK&apos;s data comes from retailers - 67,000 in all - and so gives a broad picture of what&apos;s happening.On that basis, it&apos;s possible that the featurephone holdouts will be with us for much longer.But the other effect,which I wrote about on Sunday, is that as saturation approaches, the nature of competition changes.In theory, when you hit saturation, the size of the market should peak - because the whole population is a potential buyer, rather than a segment of it. But the reality is that not everyone renews at the same rate; as with featurephones, some people will stick with an ageing handset until it dies.That means that to sell more smartphones, other elements - such as price (lower being better) or really compelling new features - become more important.It will also mean that for any OS platform to expand its user base, another will have to lose. When I asked mobile operators whether they were seeing any evidence of this happening yet, they said they weren&apos;t.Forthcoming: platform wars, againIn general, though, there&apos;s a simple trend: featurephone owners who get a smartphone tend to buy an Android phone; BlackBerry users who change platform tend to move to to an iPhone. Windows Phone users tend to come from capturing featurephone users.But what about the two main platforms? There&apos;s a growing body of evidence from the US and UK that iPhone users are more likely to remain on the platform than Android users, which mean that Android&apos;s lead is expected to erode slowly (because it has a larger user base, and is &quot;leakier&quot;). It&apos;s notable that Apple&apos;s chief executive Tim Cooksaid that the iPhone 5C - derided by many as a &quot;flop&quot; - had been successful in pulling in Android users:I think it’s important to point out that if you look at some of the numbers we’re seeing on first-time iPhone buyers, people that bought the iPhone 4S, 85% were first-time iPhone buyers, and the 5C, 69% first-time iPhone buyers. So these are extraordinary, and as you would expect, these are also heavily Android switchers. 62% of the people that bought the 4S switched from Android; 60% of the people that bought the 5C switched from Android.It&apos;s worth noting too that according to industry data seen by the Guardian, in the contract market the iPhone 5C was the second best-selling phone in the UK in December; the iPhone 4S was the third best-selling. In January, the 4S and 5C swapped between second and third place.By contrast, there&apos;s no reliable data suggesting that iPhone users are migrating to other platforms in significant numbers. The growth in Android seems largely generated by migration from featurephones.That&apos;s certainly visible in the PAYG market, where smartphones are now 58% of sales and expected to hit 75% by the end of 2014. Notably, iPhones didn&apos;t appear in the top five PAYG handsets in December or January; Nokia (with its Lumia 520 and Nokia 100 featurephone), Samsung (with the Galaxy Fame - &quot;a small, cheap phone aimed at younger users&quot;according to TechRadar- and Galaxy Y, launched in August 2011, which TechRadarsays&quot;looks to bring functionality to the low-end range&quot;) and Huawei (&quot;yet another under-the-radar, budget handset&quot;,saysTechRadar).But that&apos;s the reality as the market shifts - and also helps explain why Android dominates in countries where PAYG is the more common method of paying for handsets: contracts tend to obscure the full cost of the handset. However, the trend that mobile operators seem to be following in the UK at least is towards having more people on contracts. More of those, however, seem to be &quot;SIM-only&quot; contracts, which means that customers will have to pay the handset price. That certainly carries risks for companies selling expensive handsets, of which Apple is the prime example.The other question that might also begin to matter is: where will the featurephone holdouts buy their phones from? The number of manufacturers offering them is dwindling: Samsung is shifting its phone lineup towards all smartphones, while Nokia has sold off its mobile division to Microsoft, and was seeing falling sales of its featurephones. And at the same time, smartphone prices are falling. It may be that the featurephone holdouts will find themselves owning a smartphone at some point after all - but they just won&apos;t use it that way.ConclusionThe conclusion is clear, though: the UK is heading for smartphone saturation quite quickly, with 80% penetration due by next January, and 90% - pretty much the finish point - some time between mid-2016 and the end of 2017. And when that happens, the smartphone platform wars will take on a whole new shape.•How to keep on selling smartphones when we&apos;ve nearly all got one already
DarkMarket, a system aiming to create a decentralised alternative to online drugs marketplace Silk Road, has rebranded as &quot;OpenBazaar&quot; to improve its image online.OpenBazaar exists as little more than a proof of concept: the plan was sketched out by a group of hackers in Toronto in mid April, where they won the $20,000 first prize for their idea.At its core, OpenBazaar – and DarkMarket before it – allows any user of the software to connect with any other user, and initiate a transaction. A third OpenBazaar user, trusted by both buyer and seller, is brought in to act as an arbiter: they have the power to release the buyer&apos;s funds (paid in bitcoin, naturally) to the seller once the transaction is completed.Feedback is left as a cryptographically signed comment distributed throughout the network, while users&apos; identities are tied to their bitcoin keys, preventing anyone from impersonating another user.The idea has obvious potential for creating a replacement to the Silk Road, the online marketplace used primarily to buy and sell drugs that was shut down by the FBI in October 2013. Without a centralised headquarters, the authorities would have no choice but to track down every single OpenBazaar user individually; and it would be all but impossible to shut down the network entirely.Developed by Amir Taaki, a veteran of the bitcoin community who is currently hard at work on a wallet app that will let users spend the cryptocurrency completely anonymously, and Damian Cutillo and William Swanson, who are building a bitcoin startup calledAirbitz, DarkMarket was released as open-source software once the hackathon was finished.None of its original creators want to work on it any more, with their own projects taking up the majority of their time, and so it is left to the community to continue the coding. But the first change the community made was to give the code a new name: fromDarkMarkettoOpenBazaar.Redditors had previously started a petitioncalling on the team to change the name from Dark Market to &quot;Free Market&quot;. &quot;We know that this project will get press coverage, and eventually reach major media outlets,” reads the petioner omgitsmiley&apos;s explanation.“By calling this important invention the Dark Market I&apos;m afraid Amir et al are playing into the system&apos;s hands. If the name of the exchange is changed to Free Market, imagine the implications. News anchors will have to say on TV, &apos;Officials are looking into banning the free market.&apos;”Taaki&apos;s initial response was to refuse. &quot;People need to stop being afraid and reclaim these words of power used to control us. The Dark name evokes great imagery and sounds cool. It&apos;s like when they used to call us pirates to shame us and the pirate party stood up and said, ‘Yeah! we are pirates!’ There were many internet freedom parties before and they got nowhere.&quot;Our team is not here to fit in nicely with the status quo. We are here to challenge it.”•Silk Road&apos;s alleged frontman indicted
Undergraduates at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology will be given $100 (£59) worth of bitcoins when they return to study this autumn, in an attempt to jumpstart a bitcoin ecosystem.The project is being led by Jeremy Rubin, 19, an undergraduate in his second year at the university, and Daniel Elitzer, an MBA student at MIT&apos;s Sloan School of Management. Between them, the pair have raised more than $500,000, principally from Alexander Morcos, an MIT alum who works in high-frequency trading in New York.&quot;We decided to announce this project now to give students lead time,&quot; says Elitzer. &quot;We want to issue a challenge to some of the brightest technical minds of a generation: ‘When you step on to campus this fall, all of your classmates are going to have access to bitcoin; what are you going to build to give them interesting ways to use it?&apos;&quot;&quot;Giving students access to cryptocurrencies is analogous to providing them with internet access at the dawn of the internet era,&quot; adds Rubin.Both Rubin and Elitzer have prior experience with bitcoin. The former is the developer of Tidbit, a project to replace online advertising with bitcoin mining, while the latter is the president and founder of MIT&apos;s Bitcoin Club.Created in a hackathon in November 2013, Tidbit was proof-of-concept that would let website owners mine bitcoins on visitors&apos; computers rather than show them adverts. The project ran into difficulty when it was targeted by the New Jersey division of consumer affairs, and Rubin iscurrently being supported by the EFF, the online-rights charity.Rubin and Elitzer first met in the fallout of the Tidbit subpoena, and while the concept of the giveaway was initially Rubin&apos;s idea, the pair expanded it together. &quot;I am not super involved in the Bitcoin community,&quot; says Rubin, &quot;but it is one of the subjects which I frequently think about. Dan has many more ties in the community.&quot;Speaking tothe Tech, MIT&apos;s student newspaper, the university&apos;s head of undergraduate education, Dennis Freeman, supported the bitcoin giveaway. &quot;By bringing students and faculty together to inform members of the MIT community about what bitcoin is and to research its use, Rubin and Elitzer are helping everyone to better understand this emerging technology.&quot;Rubin and Elitzer&apos;s plan echoes other giveaways common across the bitcoin community. In April 2013, a user on Reddit calling themselves the &quot;Bitcoin Billionaire&quot;gave away over $13,000in the currency, using a function on the site that lets users &quot;tip&quot; each other in bitcoin. Normally, the tips are for around 50¢, but the anonymous user was giving away up to 20 bitcoin at once. At the time, bitcoin was worth around $200 a coin, making that single gift the equivalent of $4000.In many cases, the aim is similar to Rubin and Elitzer&apos;s: if more people own bitcoin, there is more chance that the currency will reach a critical mass where it will be able to support itself.But for the MIT Bitcoin Club, there&apos;s the additional benefit that making bitcoin popular in the middle of one of the highest concentrations of hackers, coders and engineers in the world could be key to building up infrastructure for the cryptocurrency. Part of the reason for announcing the giveaway early, they say, was to encourage local businesses to get set up to take bitcoin payments.&quot;This will spark new development,&quot; says Rubin. &quot;Even if students simply use their bitcoin to buy stuff, someone has to build an architecture to enable buying stuff. And what if buying with bitcoin is really convenient? Maybe there will be an active conversion into bitcoin.&quot;•Dogecoin raises $55,000 to sponsor Nascar driver
If you consider it from a certain angle, nothing about the modern console market makes sense. Last year, Sony and Microsoft launched two machines, the Xbox One and the PlayStation 4, which are expensive to produce and really expensive to buy. They are designed to last a decade, but already the architecture inside them is dated compared with current generation PCs; furthermore, they&apos;re competing in a consumer electronics market where mobile phones have introduced an annual generational turnover. Nothing lasts a decade anymore.There is a feeling among industry pundits and analysts that the specialist console business is dying. The argument is that smartphones and tablets, devices which offer simple and compulsive games to a new generation of digital-native casual users, have had such a disruptive effect on the sector that nothing else can ever work properly again. In March, TechCrunch ran an article entitledThe Console Market Is In Crisis, which used NPD sales figures from 2007 to show how culminative console sales have dropped dramatically:Whatever the exact truth of the new generation of consoles sales – and it is still certainly early days for the PS4 and Xbone – it looks pretty clear that the console market overall has a big problem: aka the C-word, market contraction.It’s not just new flagships failing to sell as well as new consoles used to; previous generations of consoles are evidently not sustaining long-tail sales as once they did either. Sales of the PS3/360/Wii are declining at an alarming rate compared to the transition from the prior outgoing platforms (PS2/GC). Those consoles stuck around selling in larger numbers for longer than their current-gen equivalents so there’s a wider market collapse going on.Collapse? That&apos;s decidedly apocalyptic. But then days later, the blogger Eric Johnsonquietly pointed outthat the TechCrunch figures were US-only, were restricted to one month of sales and were skewed by the runaway success of the Wii, which was something of a phenomenon, a historic one-off. He had another look at those sales figures, and he came up with something very different when analysing the performance of the PS4 and Xbox One as compared with their respective predecessors:Let’s look at not just a month, but their first three months on the US market, from a mid-November debut through January of the following year.The Xbox 360racked up326,000 US sales in November 2005, 281,000 in December 2005 and 250,000 in January 2006, for a total of 857,000. The Xbox One, meanwhile, sold909,132units in November 2013,908,000in December 2013 and arumored 134,000in January 2014, for a total of 1.95m.How about PlayStation? The PlayStation 3 scored 197,000 US sales in November 2006, 490,700 in December 2006 and 244,000 in the US in January 2007, for a total of about 931,700. Specific numbers for its successor, the PlayStation 4, have been more tightly locked down online but we know that itoutsold the Xboxin November,lost in Decemberand moved arumored 280,000in January. Given that it’s currently outselling the Xbox One worldwide by about6mto 4m, let’s guesstimate the total was also at least 2m.In effect, both Xbox One and PS4 have doubled the opening three-month sales figures of their immediate forebearers. And this is a crisis?Stats entertainmentLet&apos;s look at the most recent figures. Sony has sold 7m PS4s since last November&apos;s launch, while Xbox One has shipped 5m Xbox Ones. That&apos;s in four months. According toSony&apos;s own financial records, it took almost a year for PS3 to reach 6m sales – and the figures for Xbox 360are similar. Sure, the launch climate was different back then – PS3 had a stuttering international rollout due to issues with its Blu-ray drive, but if we&apos;re going just on figures, things are looking OK for the new machines, aren&apos;t they?&quot;There are a lot of strong opinions out there on the demise of the console market,&quot; says Piers Harding-Rolls, head of games at research specialistIHS Technology. &quot;I think a balanced analysis correctly identifies that the market landscape has changed a lot from the last generation, but what is clear is there is still a sizeable audience for high-end TV-based games experiences. While the sector is increasingly ripe for disruption – it has remained relatively untouched unlike the specialist handheld sector – until there are alternative connected TV devices or more powerful tablets that give comparable experiences, the incumbent consoles still have a role to play.&quot;Meanwhile, one of the potential interlopers on the specialist console scene has crashed and burned in quite spectacular style. When the Android-based console Ouya rocketed on to the crowdfunding site Kickstarter in 2012, making almost $9m, analysts wondered if this machine may make a dent in the sales of the big consoles. After all, it was cheap at $99, it had cool indie credentials and it was based on an open Google operating system which should have meant lots of software support. Suddenly &quot;micro-consoles&quot; became a thing and we had rivals such as the GameStick and Nvidia&apos;s Project Shield arriving in quick succession.But when Ouya finally launched, the reviews were muted and the mass of dedicated games never materialised. Indeed, it has recently been disclosed that the best title on the system, Towerfall,sold just 7,000 copies. In March, Ouya announced that it would be shifting focus away from hardware towards becoming a sort of Android-based platform for smart TVs and set-top boxes. &quot;What makes Ouya is not the physical hardware, but the fact that it is made for games built for a TV,&quot;said founder Julie Uhrman to The Verge. But then, why would developers choose to restrict their titles to a subset of the Android market when they could simply write games to support a range of devices and platforms? Meanwhile, GameStick is struggling and Nvidia is very quiet on Project Shield. And PlayStation 4 and Xbox One seem to be doing OK.Will that continue? That is the real question. A developer friend told me recently that you can pretty much discount the first 5m sales of any big console platform – those are the hardcore, early adopters; they&apos;ll buy the latest Sony or Microsoft machine as a matter of course. The real test comes after that – the real test is the 40-100 million extra consumers you need to attract in order to have a successful machine. It is all about momentum.Why down may be upIn March, research firmStrategyAnalyticsreleased a report on the future of the games industry. Below its headline proclamation that the total games industry will grow by 10% in 2014, hitting $62bn, there were some downbeat facts on the console sector. The document points out that around 28m consoles were shipped globally in 2013, half the volume shipped five years ago, and it provides this table to illustrate how the market has shifted:Table showing console sales in millionsHere is another one that shows how the console&apos;s share of the market has shrunk:How the games market is segmented.But then, StrategyAnalytics does not see in this a Doomsday scenario. &quot;The missing piece is Nintendo,&quot; says Eric Smith, analyst at the firm, repeating a now familiar mantra. &quot;The Wii U cannot recapture the Wii’s success because many of those gamers have moved on to tablets and smartphones for casual and kids games. Handheld consoles like PSP, PS Vita, and 3DS are suffering a similar fate and denting the overall console market in the process.&quot;Still, it’s a little premature to start writing obituaries. Microsoft and Sony broke console launch records in 2013 shipping a combined 7m units in six weeks, demand for the PS4 is forecast to outstrip supply until mid-summer, and Xbox One will be launching in over a dozen countries later this year. There is a lot of life left in this nascent generation and we expect that core gamers will gravitate to PS4 and Xbox One as more exclusive titles and innovative features of the new generation are exploited.&quot;Another way to look at the current games industry is that the arrival of disruptive platforms is about the expansion of the whole market rather than the contraction of the console sector. Smartphones have brought whole new audiences into the medium, normalising the idea of adults settling down to half an hour of gaming in the evening rather than watching Eastenders or going on Facebook. As Smith puts it: &quot;With hundreds of millions of new mobile gamers being created every year, traditional console vendors need only to convert a marginal percentage of them to reap big rewards.&quot;Set-top boxingVideo game consoles are much more multifaceted these days too. Xbox One&apos;s brave(ish) new(ish) world of interactive TV services and on-demand content may have fallen flat with hardcore gamers, but perhaps it will resonate with more casual users as they seek alternatives to aging set-top boxes and cumbersome DVD collections. Furthermore, we have the prospect of virtual reality entertainment on the horizon – and it&apos;ll probably be the consoles that offer the most robust and reasonably priced solutions (although Valve may still have a role to play with its Steam Machine concept).And even micro-consoles may have a role – just not the role we thought they would back in 2012. &quot;I don&apos;t see much broader commercial opportunity for small independent players such as Ouya,&quot; says Harding-Rolls. &quot;But if large consumer electronics vendors commit to a more developed games offering across general connected TV devices or indeed towards their own Android consoles – as we are seeing from Amazon in the US and Huawei and ZTE in China – then there is grounds for more optimism around the ability of these devices to pick up home gamers. Certainly China will be an interesting market to watch with regards to adoption of both the Huawei and ZTE Android consoles as there is no official console market there of note at present.&quot;Revenge of the killer appsWhat we have seen with the two big mainstream consoles this time round is a much more cautious approach from game publishers. Games website Kotaku recently ran an interesting piece on howthis is the weirdest console transition ever, because many of the biggest profile releases are last-gen (Assassin&apos;s Creed IV, Tomb Raider), or actual upscaled ports of old titles (The Last of Us); plus, the Xbox One&apos;s supposed killer app, Titanfall, looks almost as good on Xbox 360.Forget smartphones for a second, this could be the real danger for Sony and Microsoft. If third-party publishers remain nervous about slinging their support behind the new machines, if they keep hedging their bets with cross-generational releases, they risk bringing about the scenario they fear: poor consumer take-up of the latest platforms. This year&apos;s E3 event in Los Angeles really has to provide a few more exciting battles than Titanfall v Infamous: Second Son to keep the momentum going.Smartphones and tablets have disrupted the market, but disruption isn&apos;t necessarily annihilation. The one thing certain to kill a console is the lack of software diversity; the lack of experiences that people want to have and talk about and share with friends. The game&apos;s the thing, and this should never be overlooked in the analysis of financial figures. If Sony and Microsoft manage to unveil truly fascinating and thrilling new titles at E3, titles that genuinely rely on the power of the next-gen machines, they can certainly hold off that much-predicted mobile gaming apocalypse for a few more years.• Xbox One sales boosted by Titanfall – but PlayStation 4 up too• PlayStation 4: the rebirth of cool• Xbox One: USS Enterprise or HAL?
This September, children across England and Wales will study computer science as part of the national curriculum. Part of the UK government&apos;sYear of Code, this includes a £500,000 PR campaign to raise the profile of coding, and a £2m investment in training 400 &quot;master teachers&quot; across the country.Yet this isn&apos;t the first attempt to bring computer science closer to mainstream education. In fact, the idea that students should know how to write code goes back 50 years to Dartmouth College, an Ivy League university in the rural town of Hanover, New Hampshire. This is where, in a basement at 4am on 1 May 1964, Prof John Kemeny and a student programmer both typed RUN and started their Basic programs at the same time.Dartmouth Basic - or Beginner&apos;s All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code - had officially been born.Although computers were not widely available at the time, Kemeny and Dartmouth maths professor Thomas Kurtz had already formed the view that &quot;knowledge about computers and computing must become an essential part of a liberal education&quot;. This was tricky when programs were delivered on stacks of punched cards that computer operators loaded one after another in a system known as &quot;batch processing&quot;.Bruce Springsteen's classic Born to Run, which may or may not have been inspired by the computing language BasicThey wanted students to be able to interact with computers. That meant developing an interactive time-sharing system - so that Dartmouth&apos;s computer could serve more than one user at once - and a language that non-specialists could handle. Which is exactly what they did.Basic wasn&apos;t invented from scratch: earlier efforts included Darsimco (Dartmouth Simplified Code) and DOPE (Dartmouth Oversimplified Programming Experiment). Basic also drew on an earlier language, John Backus&apos;s Fortran (Formula Translator). However, Basic made it much easier to enter programs in the days before computers even had screens.After Intel invented the microprocessor in 1971, the price of computers came crashing down, and in the second half of the 1970s, Basic became the standard language for home users and hobbyist programmers. There wasn&apos;t much packaged software, so people expected to write some of their own. Computer magazines published program listings for people to type in, then save to cassette tape.The 1980s home computing boomIn 1982, the boom in home computing led to the UK&apos;s first attempt to teach everybody to code: the BBC&apos;s Computer Literacy Project. This was based on BBC Basic (written by Richard Russell) running on Acorn BBC microcomputers. The Thatcher government helped by subsidising schools to buy computers, and Sir Kenneth Baker became the UK&apos;s first Minister for Information Technology.Basic was also where Bill Gates started. He wrote a version of Basic for the primitive MITS Altair microcomputer and dropped out of Harvard to found Microsoft with his programming partner, Paul Allen. They moved to Albuquerque, New Mexico, where MITS was based, and founded a tiny company called Microsoft. Of course, after the giant IBM decided to buy Microsoft Basic for the IBM PC in 1981, it got a lot bigger.Microsoft Basic hasn&apos;t changed much over the years, but in the 1990s, Microsoft took the language to a new level with Visual Basic, which could handle graphical user interfaces. This became popular for developing business and even commercial software. There&apos;s a free version, Visual Basic Express, for anyone who wants to try it, but it bears little resemblance to the Dartmouth original, apart from sharing an approachable name. Microsoft also offers aSmall Basicfor kids.Kemeny and Kurtz set up a small company to sell their version,True Basic, and wrote a book, Back To Basic: The History, Corruption, and Future of the Language (1985). As the title implies, they didn&apos;t approve of the multifarious sins committed by the bastardised versions of Basic on popular microcomputers. However, serious programmers were adopting other languages, such as Pascal and C, and there really wasn&apos;t much of a market for amateurs who just wanted to learn a bit of coding.Smartphones help consume, not createStill, Basic proved its worth among Dartmouth students, and it made a huge impact on personal computing in the 1970s and 1980s. It helped a lot of people understand the basic principles of algorithms and the various ways to store and access data, including me, albeit often by getting them wrong.Dartmouth is celebrating Basic&apos;s birthday witha day of eventson Wednesday 30 April, including a panel discussion on the future of computing that will be webcast live onDartmouth’s YouTube channel. Visitors who can make it to the campus will be able to use an original Model 33 Teletype terminal connected to a Basic emulator designed by Kurtz, though Kemeny died in 1992.It&apos;s a sobering thought that most of us have constant access to unimaginably more powerful computers in our pockets – our smartphones – but achieve a lot less with them. They program us to consume, not to create.Learning to code might help, but the age of Basic programming has gone.
Twitter’s revenue soared in the first quarter of 2014, the company announced on Tuesday, but its growth appears to be stalling, and investors sent its shares sharply down in after-hours trading.After the stock markets closed Twitter announced it had revenues of $250m for the first three months of the years, an increase of 119% year on year. Twitter announced a net loss of $132m for the quarter.The revenue numbers comfortably beat analysts expectations of around $241m. The social media company’s shares, however, dropped over 10% shortly after the news was released as investors appeared disappointed with the 14m new users it attracted over the quarter, a growth rate of 5.8%.&quot;We had a very strong first quarter. Revenue growth accelerated on a year over year basis fueled by increased engagement and user growth,&quot; said Dick Costolo, chief executive of Twitter. &quot;We also continue to rapidly increase our reach and scale.”Costolo told analysts in the two days after the Oscars there had been 3.3bn views of tweets about the show. “There are few other companies with this kind of reach,” he said. “Twitter the platform we believe is already incredibly mainstream.”He said the Oscars example was a “tiny example of the ubiquity, the almost omnipresence, we have in the world to be in front of users.”“Let me be clear I am really happy with engagement in Q1,” he said.The company had a total of 255m monthly active users at the end of the quarter, up from 241m at the end of last year. The figure was better than the 9m it added in the last quarter of 2013, when the company grew at 3.8%. But it still represented slowing growth for the company and came as investors are increasingly focussed on the potential scale of Twitter’s business.The social media company has established itself as a popular medium for celebrities, media outlets and brands but slower growth has triggered concerns on Wall Street that the service may lack the mass appeal needed to turn it into a advertising powerhouse.Twitter has made a series of changes to its service, making greater emphasis of pictures and video and changing profiles to more closely resemble those of Facebook. Costolo said the number of tweets people had added to their favourites or re-tweeted were up 26%. He said he was “confident” that the changes and more would drive up growth and usage of the service.Timeline views, Twitter’s measure of how many times a user refreshes a page on the desktop or a mobile device, increased 15% year-over-year to 157bn, up from 149bn last quarter but still below the 159bn it reported last year.Twitter’s results followed criticism from NBC Universal’s head of research, Alan Wurtzel, who told The Financial Times over the weekend that there was no evidence for the social media firm’s claims that it was driving TV audiences. “It just isn’t true”, Wurtzel told theFinancial Times. “I am saying the emperor wears no clothes. It is what it is. These are the numbers.”Asked about the comments Costolo said Twitter’s interest in TV was “very much based on data we saw informing the two-way relationship”. He cited numerous studies he said showed a close relationship between Twitter and TV usage.Twitter is not alone in facing slowing growth problems. The pace at which Facebook adds accounts too appears to have run out of steam. But the largest social network now counts over 1bn people as monthly active users. At 255m, Twitter is in danger of being caught by the fast growing, and Facebook-owned Instagram, and is just over half as big as WhatsApp, the private social messaging service also owned by Facebook.Nate Elliott, analyst at Forrester Research, said users growth and “engagement” –the amount of time they spend on Twitter and tweets they send, retweet and favourite, were far more important to investors and advertisers than revenues at present. “If you don’t have an audience, you don’t have a business,” he said.
