Just a quick post on two stats-based stories doing the rounds today. First up theNPD Groupis proffering the contents of its whopping Gamer Segmentation 2009 report, which divides the gaming audience into various demographic groups before analysing the bejesus out of them. And the big news is the apparent increase in the percentage of female console gamers. From the company'spress release."Females increased by five percentage points among Console Gamers, from 23 percent in 2008 to 28 percent in 2009. Since the rise in console usage among Console Gamers can be mainly attributed to the Wii, which increased in usage by 19 percentage points from last year, this underscores the finding that more females are using console systems, especially the Wii."There was also a four percentage point rise in female gamers among both 'Heavy Portable' and 'Extreme Gamers'. Other interesting statistical titbits include the finding that Extreme Gamers play an average of 39 hours a week, that 38 percent of gamers' time is spent playing online and that only 16 percent of games purchased in the last three months of 2008 were downloaded digitally.Elsewhere, Gamasutrareportson findings from media market researcherNielsen, that movie tie-ins are gaining in popularity again. From the article:At the top of Nielsen's 'purchase intent' list is Activision's X-Men Origins: Wolverine for the week of its release, and it's joined by other games tied into big box office properties: Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen, also an Activision release, and the GRIN and Halcyon-developed Terminator: Salvation game.It's not just that the current film season is driving proxy enthusiasm for the associated games. Nielsen says that a few months ago, Electronic Arts' Godfather II scored well on the purchase intent list even though the movie came out in 1974.Nielsen apparently concludes from this data that, "maybe movie license games are finally getting some respect from gamers."However, the seemingly disappointing retail performance of Godfather 2 suggests that 'internet to purchase' does not always translate into 'actual purchase'. It could be that, when a significant number of over-excited gamers actually see reviews of these titles, the intent dissolves quicker than an Alka-Seltzer in a glass of fizzy pop.TheMetacriticratings for three three franchises above certainly aren't pretty - X-Men Origins: Wolverine and Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen are fair to middling, but Terminator: Salvation stands at just 44 on PS3, andnoticeablyfailed to chart in the US games top ten on its release in May.So, greater numbers of female gamers thanks mostly to Wii, and people talk about buying movie tie-ins, but then sometimes don't. What on Earth do you make of it all?
"Like a phoenix rising from the ashes of its own self-congratulatory apocalypse, Chatterbox Best of returns." So says Imperfect Rex who's manning this concise return for the weekly Chatterbox round-up.There are new members of the writing team which now consists of Imperfect Rex, Officepest, CraggyIsland, BeardofBees and Apic, with Limni taking on a sort of player manager role and CunningStunt on the bench. If you fancy helping out let Limni know in one of the daily chatterbox sections"We've listened to the Chatterbox regulars," continues Rex. "You told us that you want us to be more concise, remove comments and stop copying and pasting. We promise nothing."Indeed, this week is a bumper special, with a whole fortnight's worth of chat. So it's not quite as concise as it could be. Enjoy!PHOTO REQUEST:Remember, we'd like to use your photos to illustrate Best Of every week. They need to be family friendly and game related. If you pass an interesting game advert, find yourself outside Sega's HQ in Tokyo, or bump into Miyamoto in Lidl, take a snap and email it to us with the subject header 'Best Of Photo!' at gamesblog + at + googlemail + com. As there are no entries this week, here's a picture of the Sage in Gateshead, where theGame Horizon conferencetook place last week (more on that soon).June 15-19: Imperfect RexMonday got off to a promising start when cameroon95 regaled us with his stories of weekend paintballing. Predictably, running around in camo gear trying to shoot at friends appealed to Chatterbox regulars. Matt123 proudly boasted of getting the drop on two workmates, conning them into surrendering despite running dry on paintballs.McBegbie and KillerBee, however, would seem to have been to the best paintball sites in the UK."I went on a stag do to a place just south of York a few years back where they had a 'Predator' round - basically one of the stewards put on a full Predator outfit and went out into the woods with a quite terrifying fully automatic Paintball gun. Your only objective was to stay alive. Most didn't make it back...."It's the tension and thought of being hit very hard by high-speed projectiles that makes it fun and gets everyone in a Vietnam war-movie mode. Ah the fun of it; crawling along the ground, breathing heavily, convinced that there are potential assailants lurking in every bush - let's face it, it could be any night out in a British city.Goths!Summer is here! The sun is out! Some of us get to slope off to the beach or fire up the BBQ while the rest of swelter! Not everyone out there in the real world wants to get in to the summer spirit though.CrispyCrumb:"Goths are out in numbers today. Saw four on my way to work."This led Lazybones to speculate on the collective noun for a group of Goths. With thanks to Cunningstunt, TonyHayers, Matt123, CrispyCrumb, APic, beatemup and Smike we have a shortlist:Gormenghastmonochromerashpestilencedepressionsadnessmourningdarkening.This prompted the arrival of the Fashion Police. Well, BeardofBees:"If you're more than 12 stone you shouldn't be allowed to be a Goth though, man or woman. They should refuse to make Goth clothes in anything bigger than a size L. You're supposed to be lanky and creepy, not some huge red-faced fattie."Shouldn't you be over on the Daily Mail site?Anyway, if you want to see some cracking examples of poor souls cooking in black clothing gohere.Searching for that Special SomeoneFor anyone that doesn't want to be offended by the responses that Pamela Stephenson-Connolly gets on herSexual Healing blog, there is always the Chatterbox.One of our regulars - who shall remain nameless - asked the 'box for some advice:"Where is a good place to meet women other than at work or when totally p***ed?"Whilst Dear Deidre isn't in any trouble yet, we had a few sensible suggestions. Salsa or dance classes (thank you Cunningstunt), friends of friends (well done cameroon95) and dizzyisanegg's suggestion of accepting any social invitation, whatever it is, were all good.This is the Chatterbox though….RustyJames:Topshop…whilst pretending to buy hotpants. For your sister.TonyHayers:I find that being good looking, confident and funny works. If that's any help.Crispycrumb:Go gay. Very popular.It took a while, but this being the internet, regimechange suggested online dating. It seems that everyone has a story of a 'friend' who tried meeting people online. Sorbicol probably got the formula right though:"For every 2 normal people, expect 6 nutters and 1 raving psychopath."We like them odds...Finally though, our sole female 'boxer (unless anyone wants to correct me), Automatic had some sound advice:"Activities like Yoga with a high number of women will help you meet ladies, obviously, but you run the risk of them getting the impression that you're gay, or only there in an attempt to pick them up. Which will make them unhappy."Any other business &amp; what we learned last week• Jeans are not just for Jeremy Clarkson. Get a nice loose fit though to avoid groin injuries.• According to SuperSmashin, actor Simon Greenall (aka Michael from I'm Alan Partridge) voices the meerkats in a well-known price comparison website TV ad.• Shadowmind can pen some terrible poetry at short notice.• The Chatterbox regulars prefer to sit, rather than stand in public bars.• Legendary Nintendo fan GWX made an appearance on Wednesday – after beatemup summoned him on Tuesday.• Windsor knots on ties are surprisingly controversial.• If you want to play games whilst at the loo in work, make sure you have big pockets and switch your PC screensaver off.Congratulations to Sorbicol and makar27, who are both getting married this week. Presumably to other people.Happy Birthday to dizzyisanegg for last Friday.Quote of the week"Spent two hours yesterday trying to dig sand underwater - it is as pointless as it sounds. Sometimes you have to show people that their ideas won't work, however."Or give up after 10 minutes, beatemup?Link of the weekBad 70s album coversNew faces this weekThey came, they saw, they posted some stuff and nonsense. Y'all come back now, ya hear?Thedudeab1des arrived with a story of meeting Sensible Software legend Jon Hare.• RustyJames may not be a new poster but is worth mentioning for trying to outdo TonyHayers on quotes and being thought an ignorant fool. Twice.• ChaosTeaCup doesn't like the Guardian Tech section's game reviews.• hantomduck wanted some advice on 'fighting games'.• FringeThinking was going to buy a PS3. Which pack? What's a geekoid?• LordRoke made a late appearance on Thursday and joined us proper on Friday.• Dickiedaviespies just wanted a big Swiss army knife from Amazon.Libel listGoths (see above), Chinos, Ron Atkinson, Estate Agents, City Link couriers.GamesLeft 4 Dead, Sacred2, Killzone 2, COD:WAW, Fallout3, FFVII, Oblivion, MGS4, Ghostbusters, God of War3.MoviesDark Crystal, The Hangover, The Plague Dogs, Transformers2, Zack &amp; Miri, Slumdog Millionaire, My Bloody Valentine, Gran Torino, The Day the Earth stood still, The Hide, American Splendour, Requiem for a Dream, What Just Happened, Tales of Earthsea, Angels &amp; Demons.June 21-26: Office PestHot loving at Ascot, women's beach volleyball and zombie slaying...After the usual Monday morning 'what games we all played on the weekend' discussions, BarryEans told us about his trip to Royal Ascot:"Brilliant. Saw a drunk guy so at home on the grass verge that he'd taken his shoes off for that extra bit of comfort whilst he slept. Highlights included him waking up, vomiting, passing out again and then rolling over into his own vomit and his wife finding him after five hours. Also saw a couple enjoying each others company a little bit too much, in plain view of anyone leaving or queuing up for the toilet."They didn't showthaton the BBC2 coverage.Then CunningStunt threw us a question:"@SW19 – My friends were talking about trying to get into centre court on Saturday.  Apparently you have to camp there overnight to get tickets AND then you have to pay £58. They were going on about it for ages and were really excited and impressed by the cost. Would anyone else do this just to see a tennis match? Seems like far too much effort and money to me."Mostly the answer was… No.  This led to various lists of sports that people would never pay to see (thanks for that you lot) and CunningStunt's classy comment:"The only sport I would possibly pay money to see would be snooker.  And maybe womens beach volleyball..."Apparently we all need to speak to smellavision as he is guaranteed tickets for the beach volleyball at the 2012 Olympics. Gamesblog day out anyone?In terms of games, there was some hint-swapping on Demons Souls between CBPodge and davefalse; zombie-slaying action being organised by the Left4Dead crew and moans over changes to Killzone 2 (people being killed immediately after spawning). Whingers.The joys of Home and dodgy soft rockHighlights of Tuesday included CunningStunt's baiting of chubster2010 over Home leading to chubster2010 stating that:"Home is good. Fact."For something that's free, Home evokes a fair bit of bitterness! Loading times and realism of the avatars were criticised. Matt123's comment summed up the general feeling quite nicely though:"I don't mind Home, it would be better if there was some point to it though."For some reason in the early afternoon, Crispycrumb decided to start singing Whitesnake's "Here I Go Again".  Piratejuice then joined in:"I've made up my miiiiiiiiinnnddNo more wasting my tiiiiimmmmmmeee(cue slide to knees and clench of fist)"Does it say a lot that I know he got the second line wrong?  The blog then sank into dodgy soft metal discussions, with comments such as:"Jon Lord. Now there was a man who could play a huge bank of keyboards and still look tough and heavy metal!""John Lord. Saw him play with Deep Purple a few years back - he was awesome, but looked a bit like he needed some oxygen and a face mask by the end.""I actually saw them at Wacken in 2006 and almost hung myself because I could sing along to so many of their songs.""My ex-girlfriend's mum (tenuous relationship, I know) dated David Coverdale for a bit. Apparently 'he wasn't much of a looker back then'. Going on the basis of the recent photo in Metro, that paints a pretty scary picture. And before you start, no, the said ex did not in any way resemble him."The day was roundly topped off with discussions of: Iain M Banks' work and that of various other authors; Left4Dead arrangements for that night; and where the next Gamesblog meetup should be. We got as far as deciding on some place called London. Anyone heard of it?Wednesday of woeWednesday morning started with tales of woe from Shadowmind who was grieving over his PSN connectivity issues. This led to LostandFound asking the blog for advice on his broken PS3:"I got a UK PS3 off eBay a few months back and have been using it over in the Hague, last night after unplugging it and then plugging it again, it now doesn't power up. At all. Advice and guidance would be appreciated."As you can probably imagine, this elicited some really helpful responses:CunningStunt:"I'd say you're screwed." and… "Use it as a door stop?"Sheep2:"…a gentle shake (think mildly brain damaged baby) may help."Limni:"When my old VCR stopped working I would take it apart, blow all the dust out and put it back together, that usually worked."CunningStuntagain: "Have you tried a hammer?"Sheep2again: "Is the socket switched on?"BeardOfBees:"Should've bought an Xbox, much more reliable."The frightening thing was that CunningStunt was probably closest with his 'screwed' comment, by the sound of things.Otherwise we talked about: how tiring cycling to work is (Lazybones was even glad that his wheel was stolen on Tuesday, as it meant he didn't have to ride home); whether all games will eventually be downloaded; whether tattoos are cool or not; and which game-related tattoos you would have if you were brave/sad enough.Catflaps and baby adviceCraggyIsland got us going early on Thursday talking about his new electronic cat flap thingy. Much hilarity ensued:CunningStunt:"Parents' neighbours has one of them. The cat sits next to the door and lets his mates in."Then, after enough cat-based double entendre to make Mrs Slocombe blush, we were all glad to hear that LostandFound's PS3 started working after he replaced the cable. We had some further good news early afternoon regarding salubriousone's new baby boy – congrats fella!  As the blog had clearly been feeling helpful over the last few days, we had more great snippets of advice:"Congrats on the wee'un. Salubrioustwo?""Inducing sleep in a baby?  A bit of gin works wonders.""Just remember, don't press the holes on his head."I was going to write the names of the people next to the comment, but it turned out they were all from that ever helpful blogger CunningStunt!We wiled away the afternoon with the usual Killzone 2 talk, whether CunningStunt's missus calling him a 'man-whore' was a good or bad thing, and what words are best for describing something as good. Those being ace, skill, lush, awesome, bostin', quality, wicked, top, cracking, geil and bad (while snapping your fingers).Tragic loss and world's worst jobsFriday was filled with melancholy, what with the loss of Michael Jackson and Farrah Fawcett. The blog was understandably upset and most of the morning was taken up with people expressing their sadness and despair.Later we got to talking about peoples' worst jobs. A few examples were: Limni's cutting Chinese Leaf in a field; SuperSmashIn's stapling receipts to invoices for eight hours a day; BeCool's Motorway service station café; cameroon95's popular toy shop chain in the bike section; and Cmidrfti's crisp round. This went on and on with tales of increasingly disgusting jobs that people once had. For full details, seeChatterbox Friday.That about wrapped it up for the week.  Good times.Quote of the week"My friend was telling me about a guy he went to school with. Apparently his Gran walked in on him with a struggling cat on his lap and only wearing a t-shirt."CunningStunt, wereyouthat 'guy'? Or, indeed, that 'cat'?Other Quotes"Weird weekend, power cut almost all day yesterday. It was like living in fecking Victorian times. I had to read stuff for entertainment. Shocking."Poor foolsgold74 – 'tis a tragic tale."You know we haven't shot zombies together since Wednesday. That's like forever!"CunningStunt misses Automatic and her crackshot zombie killing skills."I like both kinds of music, Hip and Hop."We know that Limni is trying to be funny, but unfortunately he succeeded here."Hello, my name is Beard of Bees, and I am confused by European spirit measures..."BeardOfBees realises that his IKEA booze measurer is getting him far too drunk, far too quickly.Everything elseAlso discussed:Did OJ really do it?Games:Killzone 2, Demons Souls, Sacred 2, Magic, Blood BowlFilms &amp; TV:Valkyrie, Changeling, Terminator SalvationBooks:The Crossing, The Great Gatsby (ooh, check out CBPodge), Matter, Black Man, Century Rain, Bravo Two ZeroMusic:Whitesnake, Dinosaur JrLibel List:Michael Jackson and OJ Simpson.Welcome Newcomers:Cravenurchin, OrionPax, Rankincountry
Just a few links today:• Michael Jackson's Influence on Gaming (king of pop loved his digitalia) &gt;&gt;1up.com• Social Gaming - Where's The (Creator) Fun? &gt;&gt;gamasutra.com• Playdom nabs EA executive, social gaming growing up fast &gt;&gt;games.venturebeat.com• Newsgame, or Editorial Game? (2nd part of the newsgaming history) &gt;&gt;jag.lcc.gatech.edu• History of Editorial Games, Part One (excellent round-up of this genre &gt;&gt;jag.lcc.gatech.edu• Sony stands firm on 'no PS3 price cut' policy &gt;&gt;mcvuk.comFollow us ondelicious.
TheBBC got a 13-year-old to try a Walkman cassette tape playerinstead of his iPod, with obvious results. No contest, right? But it wasn't always quite that simple. For one thing, there were much better portable cassette players than the one the BBC used -- smaller and lighter, with much better battery life, and built-in FM radios. For another, the early MP3 music players were not as tiny as they are today, and they had much smaller capacities.For example, in 1999, the Diamond Rio PMP-300 that inspired Apple to create the iPod was "about the size of a deck of cards" and had only 32MB of storage. According to the product'sAmazon.com page, it could "store up to an hour's worth of music files encoded at 64 Kbps or half an hour's worth of files at 128 Kbps".An extra 32MB of storage cost $100.Also, at the time, many people had already moved from tapes to portable CD players and Sony MiniDisc players, both of which offered better sound quality and access to vast quantities of music on the move. The big selling point of digital players was that you could use them while jogging, because they didn't skip or jump.This is not to suggest history could or should have turned out differently. The thing the Diamond Rio had on its side was "Moore's Law", the observation that transistor density on chips roughly doubles every 18 months to 2 years. That's what has taken us from early personal computers with 4K of memory, or less, to 4MB to 4GB of memory, while reducing the cost. Using Moore's Law, it was fairly simple to predict when portable digital players like the Rio would have enough storage at a price that would appeal to the mass market.But the suggestion, in the BBC piece, that a Walkman might not have been "a credible piece of technology," is just silly. In its day, tape had the same kind of benefits over alternatives (portable vinyl LP players? Cartridge-based cassettes?) as the digital music player does today. And tens of millions of people enjoyed the experience.
Here are some did-you-knows to drop about Twitter:-the average user has 126 followers;-only 20% of its traffic comes through the Twitter website; the other 80% (logically) comes from third-party programs on smartphones or computers. So if you're looking at Twitter stats on your website, you're probably underestimating that source of traffic by a factor of five;-an early peak test of the service came during President Obama's inauguration in January, when more than 300 tweets per second were being added to the message queue.These party factoids come courtesy of Evan Weaver, Twitter's lead engineer in its services team, who gave atalk at QCon 2009 to explain the architecture of the system- which started out as a sort of small content management system, but has morphed into a "messaging system" of sorts.Weaver's job is primarily about optimisation and scalability, and that's been more necessary than ever with the abrupt growth of the site in the past year.The post itself is a good read if you're into the problems of how to build a large backend system that will update in near-real time while serving millions of users.Most of the tools used by Twitter are open source. The stack is made up of Rails for the front side, C, Scala and Java for the middle business layer, and MySQL for storing data. Everything is kept in RAM and the database is just a backup. The Rails front end handles rendering, cache composition, DB querying and synchronous inserts. This front end mostly glues together several client services, many written in C: MySQL client, Memcached client, a JSON one, and others.("Most" of the tools? Which ones aren't?)You can alsosee the slides at Weaver's own site. The "Obamamania" slide is No.19 - and is quite dramatic - and if you look at slide 42 and magnify it like mad you'll see all the C tools the company uses.The other interesting things? Twitter pretty much lives in RAM - the database is "just a backend" for, well, when the RAM doesn't hold what is wanted. But because generally tweets have a short life, the database hardly ever needs to be queried - it's only stuff like old tweets, searches, "conversations" that are needed for those, and you can do that asynchronously.All in all, though - aside from the interesting way of how to be above average - it's an interesting insight into what's needed to run such a big system.The next question: can it keep growing that fast? And the second: can someone please figure out a way for it to make money so it won't vanish?
It has already conquered the web, becoming one of the most powerful companies in the world in the process. But now internet giant Google is taking on a new challenge, joining the launch of a system aimed at helping some of the world's poorest people – by pumping information to their mobile phones.The project – known as AppLab – is launching today in Uganda, giving millions of phone users access to health advice, farming tips and trading services using only a mobile handset.The system allows users to send a text message asking for information on a number of subjects, with the answers returned by SMS in a manner not dissimilar to a web search.Users can use AppLab to request health advice – including information on HIV, Aids or other illnesses – or find nearby health clinics or medical services. Farmers, meanwhile, are offered a selection of useful data including weather forecasts and agricultural tips.Another part of the system allows Ugandan users to list items for sale or find things to buy from local merchants, enabling them to trade more effectively in their communities."With the explosion in mobile phone ownership, we saw the tremendous potential in developing innovative approaches for providing information through mobile services that can benefit the poor," said Joseph Mucheru, the head of Google's operations in sub-Saharan Africa."Google's SMS technology is still evolving and we will continue to improve it over time, but what we are launching demonstrates the potential of this platform that can serve many more types of users in many countries."The scheme has been orchestrated by the Grameen Foundation – a philanthropic spin-off of Grameen Bank, the pioneering developing world investment organisation founded by Nobel laureate Muhammad Yunus.Google is providing SMS search technology, while the service is underpinned by MTN, the mobile phone operator headquartered in South Africa."Our core mission is to enable the poor to create a world without poverty … technology has always played a key role in achieving this mission for us," said Peter Bladin, executive director at the Grameen Foundation. "We believe that access to the information and services that many of us take for granted will help alleviate poverty and empower poor and underserved communities."Although Uganda is one of the world's poorest nations – with half of the population living on less than the internationally recognised poverty line of $1.25 (75p) a day – almost 10 million people in the country own a mobile phone.That constitutes about a third of the population, but the number of phone users is actually much higher because handsets are often shared between family members or owned by so-called village phone operators. These local merchants rent out mobile phones as a replacement for phone kiosks – allowing individuals without their own handset to use phone services and contact relatives for a small fee.Although pilot programmes suggest that the system will be largely used by those who own handsets, experts suggested that these village entrepreneurs will be a significant factor in driving up use.Mobile services are becoming a hot topic in the developing world, where many countries are leapfrogging the traditional telecommunications system to develop services that work over the air.In addition to information, the mobile has also become a banking tool in many remote areas. Phone credits are often used as a replacement for cash, and the ability to send and receive credit by phone has become a flexible replacement for traditional banking in a country such as Uganda, where just one in 10 citizens has their own bank account.All the groups involved said they hoped to roll out the system in other countries across Africa, and other parts of the world, if it proves successful.
It was one of the greatest games of the early '90s and nowThe Secret of Monkey Islandis back. Releasing on Xbox Live Arcade "this summer" TheSecret of Monkey Island: Special Editionsees the original game given a graphical spruce up (although, brilliantly, you can play with the original graphics) for its re-release.  I recently spoke to producer Craig Derrick about the game, the art, the puzzles and why he - amazingly - thought that the PC version was better than the classic Amiga one.Why is now the right time to revisit Monkey Island?It's always a great time to revisit Monkey Island. We've discussed revisiting the franchise for some time now, but we needed the right project and platform to reintroduce players to the world and characters of Monkey Island. We discussed doing a direct port of The Secret of Monkey Island on iPhone or XBLA; we talked about adding new features to the original game and we even briefly discussed the idea of doing an original, SCUMM-based 2D sequel set between Monkey Island 2 &amp; 3. And, hell, why not throw in an episodic game done by Telltale in for good measure! These were the typical fanboy conversations I was involved in here at LucasArts and I loved it, but I, like many, figured this would likely never happen. Then something remarkable happened. Last summer I was closing out another internal project and our new president, Darrell Rodriguez, asked me to look into ways of revisiting the library titles that best reflected the LucasArts heritage of great story and characters and of course Monkey Island was on the top of my list.How do you get the balance between attracting new players and satisfying the needs of fans of the original?I believe you have to look at the barrier of entry for both groups. As great as the original is we knew that a generation of gamers may never have heard of Monkey Island or be familiar with the classic LucasArts point-and-click adventures. Plus, the game was very dated graphically (which is also, of course, part of its charm), had no voice over dialogue and at times is very challenging to a novice. We knew if we wanted to bring new gamers to it we had to update all of these areas and focus on accessibility to the new player via updated controls and an in-game hint system. At the same time we knew we couldn't alienate our original fans. Early on we knew we wanted to include the original game with the special edition in one form or another, stay true to the original composition of the background art, establish some continuity in the character designs based on their appearances throughout the series and bring back as many of the original voice actors from the very first Monkey Island "talkie", "The Curse of Monkey Island". We thought if wecould do all of that then we may just be able to appeal and balance enough features for both new and old fans alike.Why Xbox Live and not Wiiware or PSN?Well, we never said we wouldn't be on Wiiware or PSN now did we? The truth is, though, Xbox Live offers a great user experience and downloadable service to gamers and we think it's a great platform to launch the game on. And, of course, the game will also be available on PC via digital download, plus we may have another platform announcement to make very, very soon.Do you think today's gamers will be excited by a point and click game?Today's gamers are more diverse and broad than I would say even the audience of point and click games was back in the 90's. When we started this, however, I always told the team that this wasn't necessarily about getting people excited about a point-and-click game, but about getting people excited about a game with great storytelling, characters and humour. The Special Edition adds a unique, whimsical art style and gameplay pacing and mechanics that I think will stand apart from many of the games available on Xbox Live.Were you tempted to tamper with the original game? ie make some puzzles less obscure?We considered adding new puzzles, but no, we never wanted to tamper with the original game or make puzzles less obscure in nature. What we didn't do, however, is create an in-game hint system that will help new players solve those more obscure puzzles without having to consult an online hint doc. The hint system works in a way where the first time you get a hint it simply reminds you of what task you're attempting, which is a great way to come back into the game if you've left it or have forgotten what your objective may be. The next time you ask for a hint it's a little more specific without completely spoiling the solution and then of course the last time you ask for a hint the game out right tells you what to do and where to go.With point and click style games now appearing on the Wii and DS is this a new golden age for the genre?I love the resurgence we're seeing in classic point-and-click adventure games and obviously the Wii and DS both provide pointing devices that adapt quite well to that type of interface, but I'm not quite sure we've entered a new golden age quite yet. The point-and-click interface was an innovation created by LucasArts for adventure games back in the late 80's / early 90's, but how has that interface or the genre really evolved since? My eye is on innovations occurring in cinematic action / adventure games today in titles like BioShock, Heavy Rain, Alan Wake and the upcoming stuff we're doing at LucasArts. This is where I think we may start to see the beginning of a new golden age.Why do you include the original graphics?The original graphics and gameplay was our "get out of jail free" card. When putting together the pitch for what would eventually become the special edition it was very important in some way to include the original game. I figured, if we go and update all of the art, add visual effects, update the music, and add spoken dialogue there's going to be someone that just wanted to play the original game. At first I thought we may simply include an emulator, but as I discussed more about the special edition idea with the engineers they started to believe we could actually run the original SCUMM code and game under the updated content. Once we had that initially working we did a test where we switched from the updated features to the original game running underneath and everyone's jaw dropped at the comparison. At that point we knew we had something very, very cool.Why do you think the Monkey Island series is held in such high regard?Timeless story, humorous characters and a great, cinematic presentation that was way ahead of its time.What was your favourite version of the original? PC or Amiga?The PC. Growing up I had a Commodore 64 and remember playing Maniac Mansion on it fondly, but I'm sad to admit that I never upgraded to the Amiga, so I remember playing Monkey Island for the first time on my friend Roger's computer. All of our friends would gather at Roger's house every weekend because he was the kid who had the computer, the big TV and all of the game systems. We would order pizza and just play Monkey Island and all of the adventure games out at the time. Ah, good times!Why do think comedy is such a rare commodity in today's games?Dying is easy, comedy is hard. It's a combination of action games selling the most and not many people knowing how to write comedy well. There are of course exceptions to this. Valve is doing great, dark humour in Team Fortress 2 and Portal. And of course you can't talk about humour in games without discussing Tim Schafer and his amazing ability to put humour into everything he does. Still, those folks are the exception not the rule.Does this mean a similar revamp of Monkey Island 2 is on the cards?Fingers crossed. Ever since we announced the game everyone has been asking about Monkey Island 2, Maniac Mansion and all of our great adventure games. Monkey 2 is definitely high on my list, but the special edition is really a great big experiment to see what interest there is for these types of games and if people are interested in playing them on a console. If the fans really respond well, then I think it will be tough to say no to another one..
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; War in cyberspace is something of a hot topic, givenrecent government announcements(indeed, our own John Naughtonwrote a columnon the topic this week). Now theNew York Timesis reporting thatRussia and America are at odds over a non-proliferation treaty for cyberspace. Boiled down, it's this: Moscow wants an agreement to limit offensive cyberstrikes; Washington wants more leeway to defend itself from online attacks.&bull; Talking of military technology,CNethas a very intriguing report about Department of Defensefunding to develop a machine that can read the internet. It's intended to sift through vast amounts of data to spot terrorist activity online... whether it just ends up laughing at sick jokes on b3ta remains to be seen.&bull; A few Monday morning reads to soften the start of the week: theNYTon how Google is trying to argue it'snot a monopolist; whileFortunehas aninterview with Ben Mezrich, author of a forthcoming account of Facebook's rise calledAccidental Billionaires.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Last Wednesday, the American secretary of defence, Robert Gates, announced the US was finally getting its act together on cyberwarfare. After a couple of false starts and a good deal of bureaucratic infighting, the Pentagon is setting up a unified US Cyber Command to oversee protection of military networks against cyber threats. It will be called USCybercom and will be led by the director of the National Security Agency, Lt Gen Keith Alexander.In a memo to the joint chiefs of staff, Gates said he had directed General Kevin Chilton, head of US Strategic Command, to develop implementation plans for the new command, which he wants on his desk by the beginning of September.  Gates says that he expects USCybercom to be up and running by October and to have reached "full operating capability" within a year. That is lightspeed by federal government standards, so you can bet something's up.What it signifies is official recognition by the Obama administration that the world has embarked on a new arms race. The weapons this time are malicious data-packets of the kind hitherto employed mainly by spammers, malware programmers, phishers, hackers and criminals. But whereas those operators are in business for mischief or private gain, nations will use their cyber-tools to wreak economic havoc and social disruption.We've already had a case study of how it will work. Two years ago, Estonia experienced a sustained cyberattack. It happened during a period of tension between Estonia and Russia. "For the first time," the Economist reported, "a state faced a frontal, anonymous attack that swamped the websites of banks, ministries, newspapers and broadcasters; that hobbled Estonia's efforts to make its case abroad. Previous bouts of cyberwarfare have been far more limited by comparison: probing another country's internet defences, rather as a reconnaissance plane tests air defences."The onslaught was of a sophistication not seen before, with tactics shifting as weaknesses emerged. Individual "ports" (firewall gates) of mission-critical computers in, for example, Estonia's telephone exchanges were targeted. The emergency number used to call ambulance and fire services was out of action for more than an hour. And so on.It was a chilling demonstration of what is now possible, and it made governments sit up and take notice. Estonia is a member of Nato and the alliance responded by setting up a specialist cyberwarfare base in the country. Its code name is K5 and Guardian reporter Bobbie Johnson visited it this year. He recounts what one of the staff told him about how Nato would react to another cyberstrike: "Overwhelming response: a single, gigantic counterstrike that cripples the target and warns anyone else off launching a future cyberwar. He isn't sure what it would look like, but the show of force he envisages is so severe that the only thing he can compare it to is a nuclear attack."Hyperbole maybe, but all military establishments are tooling up. On Thursday, Gordon Brown revealed that the government had set up a "strategic" unit within GCHQ. Lord West, the retired admiral drafted in to the Home Office to look after security, told the BBC that "the government had developed the capability to strike back at cyber attacks", though he declined to say if it had ever been used. If Chinese, Russian, Israeli and Iranian ministers were free to speak on the subject, the message would be much the same.If you're not worried, you have not been paying attention. Almost without realising it, our societies have become hugely dependent on a functioning, reliable internet. Life would go on without it, but most people would be shocked by how difficult much of the routine business of living would become. It would be like being teleported back to the 1970s. Even a minor conflict could slow the global internet to a crawl. So cyberwar is a bit like nuclear war, in that even a minor outbreak threatens everyone's life and welfare.In those circumstances, isn't it time we thought about devising treaties to regulate it? We need something analogous to the 1925 Geneva Protocol to the Hague Convention, which prohibited chemical and biological weapons. And we need to start now.
So in the end, what are the physics challenges that will shape gaming over the next year or so? In the final part of our group interview, the panelists summarise the pertinent issues. One key point is, the next big thing in physics technology might not come from a big developer or a well-established middleware provider; it could well originate with a tiny independent studio, working on some offbeat browser-based puzzle title.Crayon Physics, for example, is one of the most striking examples of physics in modern gaming and the original version of this wasconceived in five daysas part of a rapid prototyping experiment...George Torres, Senior Software Engineer, Fight Night Round 4Nadeem Mohammad, NVIDIA PhysX Product ManagerLuke Schneider, Project Design Architect, Red Faction: GuerrillaDave Gargan, Principal Engineer, HavokRichard Hackett, Technical Director, BlitzMark Enoch, Lead Coder, Ruffian GamesChris Hecker, veteran programmer and game physics expertWhat key areas of games are going to benefit from advances in physics over the next couple of years?George Torres:I think once again that we are going to see more unified systems, so physics, rendering, AI and gameplay will in some way merge all together. If you play Fight Night 4, you'll probably have a more organic experience than with Fight Night Round 3. Obviously we didn't change the rule of the game; we simply mixed systems, to get more variety mainly from the physics engine, which input results to other game areas.It's an exciting time to work in the game industry; the next generation of hardware will be used not just to increase texture sizes, but to create more complex behavioural systems.Nadeem Mohammad:The physics content [will be] integrated with the other subsystems in the game, such as the AI, the sound, the lighting, the rendering and the animation. As an example, we are tightly integrated with the leading animation engine from Natural Motion, and the leading vegetation middleware,Speedtree. Think characters with natural flowing hair and natural loose clothing moving around with cinematic realism traversing forests with lush, interactive trees which you may have to hack your way through while in a natural fog, or with smoke and wind... Combine this with the increased photorealism in graphics and you can imagine the possibilities.The advances in physics are going to make it easier for game designers to weave more complex and rewarding game play into an increasingly sophisticated environment. Consumers now crave new game play with rich, compelling visuals – physics is what adds the realism to that.Luke Schneider:More games will begin to integrate destruction with their physics systems, while AI and animation in particular will really benefit from being more intimately related and reactive to the world. Being able to fully utilise this integration will be the key to some games really standing out and helping establish a new kind of interactivity that make other games feel stiff and lifeless (or obviously scripted) in comparison.Richard Hackett:With the growth of parallel processing both in terms of making better use of existing consoles and new hardware, we are clearly going to see more and more use of physics in ways previously not possible. Even these days games are still using physics in a pretty sparing way to avoid the code getting bogged down.A lot of this usage will be for eye candy but we're already seeing much broader use of physics for generating interesting game play such as in casual and mass market games like Crayon Physics and Little Big Planet. Rigid body physics that most games use is almost a commodity technology and it is starting to be used in a much more creative way than a pile of crates from a few years back.Beyond rigid body physics one area that still takes a lot of processing in the offline computing world is fluid dynamics. There are some real-time techniques that are just about practical but as techniques and hardware specs improve this kind of simulation will open up some really interesting possibilities that are barely usable right now.Chris Hecker:It seems pretty clear that the highly specialized games, like car racing games, are a solved problem from a physics standpoint.  I think you'll see a lot more destructible environments that aren't really meaningfully destructible, but that look quite cool.  But, I think the main area of research will be how to get the characters and the environments interacting well. That's a tough nut to crack.Mark Enoch:Server-side physics for online games is probably going to be a big growth area, specifically for MMOs.  The trick with keeping costs down when you're running an MMO is to cram as many players onto a server as possible, spending as little time as you can on each player, and keeping your world simulation fairly cheap in terms of AI or physics.Through use of multi-core machines or dedicated hardware it's possible we'll start to see more complex online games, with beefier servers that are able to handle the kind of rigid-body physics simulations that we've all become used to playing with in single player or limited multiplayer games.Of course it's always worth keeping your eye on what the indie developers are doing as well, now that it's a lot easier to get basic physics up and running, it's also a lot easier for people with wacky ideas to actually try them out!
What do goths do in the summer time? It's a natural history puzzler up there with "Why do dogs like sticking their heads out of car windows so much?" and Michael McIntyre's continued employment as a comedian. As this site observes, "all that make-up, long black leather and rubber must get very sticky." Indeed, fine weather poses quite the predicament to those of the gothic persuasion when the wearing of trenchcoats, shiny PVC big boots and a rainbow of colours stretching from black to, erm, dark black doesn't quite fit with a stroll along the prom and a scorching hot day. Here, then, are photos of poor goths cowering beneath black lace umbrellas (aka "gothasols"), snaps of friends "scaring the locals with our pale faces" and some ghoulish holidaymakers making the best of it by carving a skull in sand. Sweet.
If you see a game made by publisher of predominantly mobile games Pop Cap, you can be reasonably assured that it will be a beautifully-made, finely-honed work of playful perfection. Fellow publisher Digital Chocolate's brand provides an altogether different guarantee, namely that what you've just spent money on is likely to be poorly thought through, riddled with glitches and almost wilfully charmless. California Gold Rush assuredly ticks all those boxes with its simple puzzle mechanic involving digging for treasure by following a series of sparkles underground. Hampered by hobbled controls that make it impossible even to scroll around the screen looking for the early signs of gold seams, nothing quite works as it should, from fending off irksome attacks by bats to simply trying to guide your miner to dig. With the App Store as sprawling as it is, treat this leaden work of mediocrity as one of its many cautionary tales.• Digital Chocolate, &pound;1.79
Through a series of carefully choreographed leaks, Microsoft has revealed plans to relaunch Xbox 360 towards the end of next year. While not a completely new console, the Xbox refresh will apparently feature Project Natal's functionality, as seen at this year's Electronics Entertainment Expo, letting players control games through movements so subtle that changes in facial expression can be detected using a radar-style built-in camera. After the Nintendo Wii showed that removing conventional control methods meant legions of non-gamers were suddenly welcome and interested, both Sony and Microsoft have taken steps towards their own joypad-free futures. While the new Xbox is still some way off, anyone who witnessed the E3 demonstration will realise it's going to be a very busy year-and-a-bit to turn a peculiar technical demonstration into playable games.
As part of its continuing policy of making games for people who would not under any circumstances describe themselves as gamers, Another Code: R - A Journey Into Lost Memories tells the story of 16-year-old Ashley Robbins's hunt for clues about the death of her mother. Interacting entirely by pointing at things on screen with the Wii remote, most of the game plays like an interactive novel, with no voice acting and minimal sound effects to distract you, and puzzles that can usually be solved by clicking on everything in visual range. Spending time on Ashley's family relationships as well as the over-arching mystery and arriving with a clear pro-recycling message, it demands no manual dexterity and never once tests your reaction speed. Mellow to the point of being almost ambient, its tepid adventuring antics are perfect for those to whom the term "first person shooter" means absolutely nothing.• Nintendo, &pound;39.99
Thousands of YouTube users are staging a full-scale revolt over plans to redesign some parts of the popular video website.In an announcement made on YouTube's blog earlier this week, the company saidit plans to roll out new user pagesthat alter certain aspects of a profile, and let users customise the look of their space on the site.The new systems - which have been in testing for several months and are currently used on popular YouTube accounts such asLisa Novaandthe White Housechannel - create a system much closer to a site such as MySpace.The new design is already being rolled out to new users, and will be the norm by July 15."The purpose is really to make the channel your home on YouTube," said YouTube product manager Brian Glick.However, the forced changes have outraged many regular visitors to the site - and angry YouTubers have left tens of thousands of comments so far on Glick's blog post.At the time of writing, there were more than 57,000 comments - ranging from simple protests and requests to keep the old design, to obscenity-laden insults and requests for users to sign online petitions."I just like to keep things simple and let the videos do the work," said one user. "Take a cue from Facebook... keep it simple and classic and YouTube may be around for another 5-10 years.""Please don't change it," pleaded another. "I really like the old design and it seems to work better too, I've used the new one and only ended up having problems. I think it's better for people to choose."I just spoke to YouTube's Glick, who has overseen the redesign and is - understandably - a little swamped by the volume of reactions. The site offered his official statement, which points out that the beta version of the new design has been widely available and discussed by users, as a response to the complaints:"We're very excited about the upcoming release of our new channels. They will provide a more immersive experience and an enhanced ability to customize the page.  This has been a very open and transparent process over the past few months where our community has - and continues to - help us shape and grow this new product."The incident marks the latest kerfuffle about the redesign of popular websites.Facebook has been struck by a series of rebellions over changes to the look and layout of its service, most recently in March - when it ditched its previous look in favour of one that placed greater emphasis on the stream of activities undertaken by a user's friends, in a similar vein to Twitter.In the past Sheryl Sandberg, the company's chief operating officer,has saidthat people should "get used to" the changes - with co-founder Mark Zuckerbergreportedly tellingFacebook employees not to listen to the protests of customers.
Facebook is hiring lobbyists to push its agenda on internet privacy and data sharing in Brussels and Washington, as the social networking site attempts to increase its influence with authorities around the world.The company has appointed Richard Allan, who was previously the head of European regulatory affairs for the technology giant Cisco, to lead its efforts in lobbying EU governments.The move to create a dedicated European lobby team comes after the company hired Timothy Sparapani, a former lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, as the second member of its Washington operation. Sparapani had previously been linked to campaigns critical of Facebook's targeted advertising systems.According to Chris Kelly, the Californian web company's chief privacy officer, the five-year-old startup has been engaging in talks with government officials in various countries for some time, but its growing size and importance means it is essential they "understand our philosophy".He said: "There is a concern we've had for some time that – in a well-meaning attempt to protect consumers – legislators or regulators would end up passing laws that would keep people from the beneficial sharing of information." Jim ­Killock, the executive director of the Open Rights Group, which campaigns for the rights of British citizens online, says technology companies are increasingly choosing to exert pressure at European level, rather than in more tightly monitored environments, such as Westminster."It is much easier for commercial concerns to lobby Brussels, which is distant from public attention but shapes very important legislation," he said. "Businesses will pay to make sure their views are heard, and it's difficult for citizens to match that."Facebook's political manoeuvres mark the latest phase in the site's ascent. It is now officially the world's largest social networking website with more than 200 million users around the globe. In the process, the company has outpaced its Silicon Valley rivals, and delivered a surprise defeat to Rupert Murdoch and his social networking site, MySpace.Technology corporations are increasingly flexing political muscle in an attempt to mould government legislative reform in their favour. In recent years, Google has stepped up its efforts on both sides of the Atlantic and the company has taken a more disciplined approach to lobbying.That approach appears to have paid off: Barack Obama openly backed a number of internet policies championed by Google during the US EUelection and has handed Eric Schmidt, the Google chief executive, a place on his presidential advisory board for science and technology.More recently, Google's head of global public policy, Andrew McLaughlin, joined the White House as deputy chief technology officer.
Michael Jackson will be remembered for a lot of things, but videogames are unlikely to be near the top of the list. The singer was, however, an avid gamer, with a legendary arcade machine collection that took up considerable space in his Neverland ranch. In April, many of the cabinets wereput up for auction, among the lots Sega's enormous R-360 and Galaxy Force machines.He also appeared in several videogames, as these YouTube videos recall...Michael Jackson's MoonwalkerBased on the 1988 movie, this tie-in originally appeared in the arcades as an isometric 'beat'-'em-up, in which the singer took out enemies with magic while rescuing children. It was a typical artifact of the Jackson mythos, simultaneously mawkish, questionable and somehow cool. Memorably, it was possible to collect a digital version of Bubbles the chimp who would transform his master into a powerful mecha-Michael. Various home computer and console versions followed.Space Channel 5The King of Pop had a small role in United Game Artists' original rhythm action romp, voicing the character of Space Michael. Lead character, Ulala, had to rescue him from the Rhythm Rogues.Space Channel 5: Part TwoHe enjoyed more screen time in the sequel, reprising his role as Space Michael, but this time, with more dancing and famed Jackson phrases.Ready 2 Rumble Round 2Michael appeared as a hidden fighter in Midway's comic boxing sim. He wears a variety of outfits in the menu selection screen, and during bouts favours an enormous crystal-encrusted white glove.
Twitter had its busiest ever day in the UK yesterday, according toHitwise, thanks partly to Michael Jackson and the uncertainty surrounding his death. Other sites to benefit included TMZ, which Hitwise says got a 20-fold increase in visits, and the LA Times. My bitly links show 81,509 clicks for theTMZpost, Michael Jackson Dies, and 42,052 for theLA Timesstory.Not all the sites were able to sustain the spike in traffic, and there were some "outages". Many of the people using Google got an error page and theBBCsays that Twitter crashed. Well, it didn't crash while I was online, but it certainly slowed to a crawl, and this led to a lot of repetitive posting: people were tweeting stuff that had already been tweeted umpteen times, because long delays meant they hadn't seen what had already been tweeted. If Twitter worked better, the burden might well have been lighter.The problem was beautifully summed up in a tweet by Alex BellingerFunny how when the real time web breaks news, the news breaks the real time webThere was also a small edit war at Wikipedia. I'd guess that some people were certain MJ had died, based on repeats of TMZ's claim, while others wanted official confirmation. That, at least, is what happened on Twitter, and Journalism.co.uk picked up on it, with sample tweets, inTrust 2.0 – reports of MJ's death are not greatly exaggerated:It was fascinating to watch the Michael Jackson rumours hit Twitter late last night (BST) and the mixed reaction to the initial TMZ.com report. An AOL/Telepictures Productions entertainment news site and renowned for having its finger on the pulse, but not quite big or well-known enough to risk the re-tweet or the MSM endorsement? Should we trust it, should we not?I was one of the more cautious types, and didn't tweet the death until it was confirmed by the LA Times. Ashley Norris (@shinyashley) complained:now sky saying it is official cos LA Times says it - yet won't believe TMZto which I replied:LA Times story is much more believable than TMZ: look at the factual details, sources, names, addresses, etc - not in TMZBoth pages have been updated, but the original TMZ story contained little detail and a lot of certainty. The LA Times story, by contrast, had a lot of verifiable data such as "Los Angeles Fire Department Capt Steve Ruda told The Times" and "Paramedics were called to a home in the 100 block of Carolwood Drive off Sunset Boulevard".Ashley replied:very true Jack, but TMZ very rarely gets gets it wrongFine. I've nothing against TMZ (from the Thirty-Mile Zone around Hollywood), andI've written about itin my weekly Netbytes column. But saying "Michael Jackson Dies" isn't reporting.TheChicago Tribunesummed it up thusly:Gossip site TMZ.com, owned by Time Warner, was out in front with Jackson news and digital-era pipelines spread the word, as has happened before with other major celebrity news stories. But it was old media stalwarts that did the heavy lifting, with giants such as The Associated Press and the Web site of the L.A. Times, sister paper of the Chicago Tribune, reporting the fastest, most credible information on the emergency call for paramedics and ultimately his death.Well, we would say that, wouldn't we? But it reminds me that my old maths and physics teachers would not have given me any marks at all for simply writing in the answer, even if my answer was correct. They would, however, give me lots of marks for my correct approach to solving a problem, even if a silly arithmetical error meant the final answer was wrong.Reporting isn't a science. However, I still think it benefits from the advice drummed into me in my school days: "Show your working!"
Twitscoop, which watches trends in hashtags on that messaging service you've all heard about, has a video of how the realisation that something was seriously wrong with Michael Jackson (though many, for unknown reasons, spelt it "Micheal").Watch the video to see a relatively quiet Thursday evening in the UK suddenly turn into an explosion of "Jackson" and TMZ - the site which was first with the news that he had been rushed to hospital with a heart attack.It would be interesting to see what Twitscoop thinks of the number of tweets that were flowing around about Jackson's collapse and then death, but it doesn't have a blog (not even at its parent companyLollicode). Is that actually legal for a web 2.0 company? I thought they all had to have a blog.Still, perhaps it shows the arc of technology, thus:"Where were you when you heard about Kennedy being shot?" (Media: radio, TV)"Where were you when you heard about Princess Di?" (Media: radio, TV, text message, mobile phone call)"Which messaging service did you hear about Michael Jackson's death on?" (Facebook, Twitter, Twitscoop...)Hands up all those who found via a piece of paper...Update: there's also Last.fm's graph of Michael Jackson tracks played on its service. Though it's not clear the royalties will be enough to pay off the debts...Source: Last.fm on Flickr...And inevitably, now you can get a video of the Wikipedia page for Jackson, showing how it changed during the night as the news came in. Jackson's death is added 9 seconds in, but then the edit wars take off, and the page is locked to unregistered users, but the categories keep expanding - "2. Death". Best viewed full screen, if you can.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
After all the hype aroundHomeon PS3 it was always likely to disappoint when it launched late last year. And it did. I spent a few hours wondering around the virtual houses, shops and cinema before the loading times and pointlessness of it all caught up with me. Butaccording to Sonythings are going well for their virtual world.  There are 7 million users worldwide (3 million in Europe), with 80% of users classed as males aged 18-35. How many of these 7 million users logged in once and how many are regular inhabitants is unclear.Other user titbits include 450,000 costumes being sold during a two-week Star Trek movie campaign and 812,544 users watching an exclusive Watchmen interview. Home just a marketing tool then? Not according to Sony's Peter Edward, director of Home in Europe.For Sony, revenue isn't the main driver for Home. We're in this for the longterm. Home is the starting point for PlayStation 3 online, and that's something that gamers are going to expect as more games support Game Launch from within Home.Clearly then Home has found a solid – if relatively small - audience of core gamers. But can it expand further and attract more casual gamers? And what do you think about Home generally? Regular visitor or was one trip enough?
&bull; Microsoft is in the firing line over the origins of elements of its new search website,Bing.com.Wiredreports that online travel siteKayak is upsetthat Bing's travel section looks so familiar (Douglas Sims has a good side by side comparison). Microsoft rejects the claims, saying "Bing Travel is based on independent development... any contrary allegations are without merit".&bull; Lawyers for the Pirate Bay have been asking for a retrial after accusations that the judge in the case, Tomas Norstrom,was biased by links to copyright organisations. No dice, reportsTorrentFreak:the court says there was no bias, so any appeals will have to go through the usual channels.&bull; This Friday, why not expand your mind with some optical illusions. No tricks this time, but just some stone cold classics:this mind-boggling colour illusion, and thespinning woman. Why not leave your best suggestions in the comments?You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
How do computer controlled characters perceive and interact with the world? In the past, they didn't - it was all smoke, mirrors and scripted sequences. But with greater processing power and more complex AI, non-player characters can be given the same perceptive powers as human players. They can 'see' the game world like us, and react to what happens in real-time.Or at least that's the theory. Last year, Edge OnlineinterviewedHalo lead AI programmer, Damián Isla, about the third iteration of the FPS series about the processing 'cost' of the latest techniques in the field. He said, "actual decision-making [for AI characters] is very quick and cheap – it's always spatial awareness that's expensive."This is another area where masses of middleware solutions have popped up to meet the needs of busy developers. According to Nvidia, games that integrate itsPhysXphysics engine with NaturalMotion's character animation toolset,Euphoria, will be able to generate characters that are truly responsive to their environments. They'll be able to 'ray cast' to spot players and environmental threats. "When explosions cause walls and building to come crashing down, Euphoria characters would be informed via calls backs to trigger their AI to save themselves from getting hurt," says Nadeem Mohammad at Nvidia. "In addition, Euphoria characters can learn to avoid running into dangerous obstacles or situations..."But what do the studios think are the key challenges with creating truly reactive characters? Here are a few thoughts...The PanelGeorge Torres, Senior Software Engineer, Fight Night Round 4Jasen Whiteside, Project Art Director, Red Faction: GuerrillaDave Gargan, Principal Engineer, HavokRichard Hackett, Technical Director, BlitzMike Enoch: Lead coder, Ruffian GamesChris Hecker, veteran programmer and game physics expertProcedural animation techniques have been touted for a few years with limited success - in what ways is this area being advanced? What new techniques will be employed over the next couple of years to sharpen interaction with environments and other characters?George Torres:With interaction between characters and environment, I think we need to see more balanced systems. The problem is not necessarily in having the most advanced path-finding technique with largescale awareness; we need to have more micro behaviours, with a proper physics awareness of the environment. I say kill the walking in to walls.Generating variety to get believability is the right solution. Mixing layering behaviours is just the natural replication of our human behaviours; I think we have a long way in mimicking this complexity, but we should approach it by breaking it down to small sub-systems, and then mixing them all together.Jasen Whiteside:I would like to see procedural techniques used to give characters in motion a realistic lean. For example, walking, running or falling up or down hills, stairs, etc.  This has been achieved to some extent, but not to huge success. You still see characters trying to walk up inclines they clearly shouldn't attempt. There are so many subtleties in how a human moves that we have yet to successfully mimic in games.Another area that has seen limited success is when characters run into one another. They typically play a staged animation and carry on with their business. Think of the fun you could have if you could toss something in an NPC's path, causing them to realistically trip over it; or have your friend crouch down behind someone while you push them from the front, causing them to topple over backward. Incorporating the right amount of ragdoll with animation or procedural reactions would make for some really believable characters in most situations.Dave Gargan:We're starting to see more attempts at integrating animation and simulation either to control very simple situations like body lean during turning or even more adventurous situations like balance control. With traditional rigging tools and techniques it is difficult to see how we move much beyond these reactive effects like balance control, tackling, flinching and reacting to being hit.We still have to see a very compelling example of procedural locomotion  (i.e. a full system that control a characters ability to walk or run in any arbitrary direction) in full production. Again the key here is to ensure that we don't dilute the original artistic input in the characters motion - procedural techniques can very quickly dilute style and become robotic.Richard Hackett:Fully procedural animation is technically possible but as we've seen, the results are often disappointing. This comes back to role of the creative guys - even using the correct AI and constraints it is rare that we are after a highly realistic response, more often it is something more stylised or 'hyper-real'.It is interesting that techniques from AI are coming into play on the character behaviour side to define how they move and respond. Something we have been looking at in our avatar research is taking established human response research and applying that to procedural movement. For example we took medical research on eye movement and focus and translated that into a procedural system for eye movement. The results were amazing - it injects an element of realism into the scene that was previously missing.Mike Enoch:I think we've just been waiting for the technology to mature. It needed to be easier to integrate, faster to process, and have well-understood tools for animators, so they can get a lot of style and character into the animation, even though they don't always have direct control over the end result. The middleware market has definitely grown in this area, I think we'll see more and more games start to use it.It's all about making the characters more physical and in touch with the world around them. There are a few techniques that have been used for years, like using Inverse Kinematics to make sure the player's feet are placed on the ground properly while standing on sloped surfaces, but with new technologies becoming available it's possible to take this further and have characters react realistically in any situation. There will be small details making characters look more natural in their environment, like holding railings while going down stairs, or grabbing onto things when falling, but the most impressive use of this technology will be in making characters deal with complex dynamic environments.Imagine being able to knock a whole city block down with a simulated earthquake, then having your character able to clamber up the debris, grabbing hand holds and placing their feet accurately and naturally all the way up and in various orientations. It would be a lot more fluid with procedural animation, requiring less binary decisions about what the player can and can't grab onto, because the motions would adapt more naturally to a wider range of situations.Chris Hecker:We're still a long way away from having a fully procedural physically based character that looks anywhere close to as good as a hand-animated one, so it's going to be a while.  Eventually, say 20 years from now, characters will be much more like living creatures, at least from a low level motor control standpoint. They'll be self-balancing, able to look ahead and run up some stairs while jumping over some debris, etc.The bigger problem here is that once you start going down this path, it becomes an AI problem as well as a physics problem. How does the character sense the world around him, how does he make decisions that seem plausible and exhibit common sense?
Sir James Dyson today criticised the UK government  for its lack of support for entrepreneurs and engineers, accusing ministers of being more interested in bailing out banks than fostering companies that could create money and high-tech jobs.The entrepreneur behind the bagless vacuum cleaner said ministers should be backing large projects that could help tackle environmental problems and also encourage young people to take up engineering.Dyson made the comments at the launch of his latest innovation, an electric motor that spins faster than a jet engine, which will be used in the latest models of Dyson's handheld vacumn cleaners. During the launch, he pointed out that the motor had been developed by his engineers over a decade without any public funds."[The government] supports banks, they don't support wealth-creators," he said. "Instead of giving money to the bankers, give it to engineers, give it to science in universities, encourage children in schools to take up science and engineering and not become bankers and lawyers. It's a matter of refocusing ourselves on people and institutions that can solve our environmental problems and our wealth and trading problems in the process."Ignoring engineering sends out wrong message to bright young people, he said. "Instead of using their hands and brains to solve real problems, they're lured by the media or the city. The irony is that engineers are said to be among the most content when it comes to job satisfaction."Many of the world's environmental problems - and in the process the global economy - could be fixed by engineers, said Dyson. "This really is a time to back our engineers, fund them and set them the challenges."He said the government should think big, backing large scale engineering projects. "Look at the French rail network and its nuclear power programme. They work, they're impressive and as a consequence the French revere engineers, unlike Brits. Instead of just throwing money at bankers, government should be looking at our long-term future."Dyson's newest vacuum cleaner discards the standard electric motor, which has remained essentially unchanged since it was invented by the physicist Michael Faraday more than 150 years ago. "The advantages of our high-speed motor is that it's a third of the size of the conventional brushed motor it replaces, a third of the weight and it's twice as efficient. It can produce twice the power or it can run twice as long for a given amount of battery."Modern electric motors use carbon brushes inside their mechanism but these can cause friction, meaning the motor wastes electricity. Dyson's computer-controlled V2 motor dispenses with the brushes and uses powerful magnets made from neodymium, a rare earth metal, to create far more movement with the same power input. At top speed, it can spin at more than 106,000 revolutions per minute, three times faster than a conventional motor, and 10 times faster than a jet engine. "The advantage of speed is that you can make it smaller and use less materials and it's more efficient."An earlier version of the V2 motor has been on sale in handheld vacuum cleaners in Japan for four years and a larger version is used in Dyson's Airblade hand dryers.Dyson said it was an exciting time to be an engineer or a scientist. "In the past it was about making things faster or bigger or making something in a more dramatic fashion. Now is the time to solve the very difficult [environmental] problems but I know we can do it. The technology is there and scientists are there with the means to do it and the government should realise this."
Map of carbon monoxide in Cambridge. Source: Cambridge Mobile Urban Sensing ProjectA chance encounter in the coffee lounge of the Cambridge chemistry department could lead to real-time maps of pollution in the city, as an offshoot of an EU project that is nearing completion in the city.A team in Cambridge which has been running theCambridge Mobile Urban Sensing project(CamMobSens) will begin equipping volunteers on bicycles and on foot with mobile phones and pollution sensors linked by Bluetooth.The sensors will monitor the levels of carbon monoxide and NOx (nitrogen oxides) in the city air and relay them to satellites, which will pass them directly to openly accessible databases being run by the project.The government does provide an overview of air quality at its own site,airquality.co.uk, but the data is not real-time, and is not mapped in detail, although it is possible to get a Google Earth download which will show the air quality as measured by roadside monitors.But Professor Peter Murray-Rust, who happened to meet Mark Calleja, the head of the CamMobSens project during a coffee break, has nowsuggestedthat the results could be mapped in real time onto the free open-source maps provided by the OpenStreetMap project, a British-inspired project which uses volunteers using GPS locators to create maps of cities and, in time, countries.Murray-Rust is now appealing to the OpenStreetMap team to get in touch with Calleja, so that by the time the project begins later this summer it will be possible to add the pollution information immediately to maps from OpenStreetMap.The advantage of using OpenStreetMap rather than online maps from the UK's official mapping agency, the Ordnance Survey, is that there are no copyright implications in the addition of data to the maps - and no limits or charges on viewing of the maps. Ordnance Survey has recently eased its restrictions on non-commercial organisations using custom online maps through a specialised web interface, but issues remain over its licensing of unrestricted access to those maps.If it succeeds, it won't be the first time that Cambridge's university coffee has had a dramatic effect. In 1991 a group at the Cambridge Computer laboratory aimed a webcam at a coffee pot downstairs from their laboratory so that they wouldn't have to walk downstairs to find out if it was empty or full. The webcam was later put onto the world wide web - and engineers at Microsoft showed it to Bill Gates in 1994 to persuade him that the web would be important by making it feasible for people anywhere to stay in touch - even with their coffee pots.
Microsoft has now released UK prices and other details of Windows 7, and there's some good news, and some bad news. The good news is that people who act reasonably quickly will be able to get the full version of Windows 7 for an unprecedented price. The bad news is that it will be the European version, 7E, which has been crippled to try to avoid further anti-trust action from the European Commission.The first bit of good news is that Microsoft will start offering Windows 7 free to people who buy a new PC running Vista from tomorrow, Friday, 26 June. PCs running Windows 7 will not appear until 22 October or later, but as Brad Brooks, US-based corporate vice president for Windows Consumer Product Marketing, says, "a lot of customers can't wait." However, if they buy a PC running Vista Home Premium, Business or Ultimate, they'll get a voucher for a free copy of Windows 7 when it comes out.It seems that the voucher and fulfilment will be handled by the PC manufacturers, so buyers should make sure they get the Windows 7 deal locked down before handing over the cash. That includes the cost for the DVD and/or delivery, if any.The second bit of good news is that Brooks reckons all languages will be available in October. Windows 7 will be available in 14 major languages on or around 22 October, with the rest appearing by 31 October. This is the first time Microsoft has done this, as far as I can remember. Users of some languages typically have to wait months.The third bit of good news is that, for a limited period starting on 15 July, UK users will be able to pre-order the full version of Windows 7 for less than the cost of the upgrade version.Typically, a Windows upgrade for Home Premium would cost £79.99 and the full version would cost £169.99. Brooks says early buyers will get the full version of Home Premium for a promotional price of £49.99 "while stocks last". Similarly, someone who wants a Pro upgrade will get the full version for £99.99.American buyers do even better, with special offer prices of $49.99 and $99.99. If you were feeling pleased about the Windows 7 discount, you can now be annoyed at the implied exchange rate of $1 to £1.One of the advantages is that the full retail version is transferable. You can install it on as many PCs as you like, as long as you only have it on one PC at once. (My full version of XP is now on its third machine.) Versions of Windows sold with PCs can only be used on the PC they came with.How long will stocks last? Microsoft doesn't know. Brooks says that Microsoft has taken a guess based on the number of retail copies it has sold before, and it will be first come, first served. "We want to reward customers who are following us closely," he says.The promotional copies will be offered on pre-order by Amazon and DSGi (Dixons, Currys, PC World) from 15 July to 14 August, if supplies last.The main problem is that Microsoft is shipping Windows 7 in Europe without the Internet Explorer browser and perhaps other useful programs, to try to avoid being sued by the EC, and it just doesn't have time to do upgrade testing. However, Brooks says it will offer buyers the option to pick up a disc with IE8 and Windows Live Essentials (Mail, Messenger etc) "at no cost at retail". Sadly, Microsoft's Security Essentials anti-virus software won't even be included with the other Essentials programs.The bad news is that there's no upgrade from Vista to the EC-crippled Windows 7E, users will have to do a custom (clean) installation, and as Microsoft points out athttp://windows.microsoft.com/upgrade-windows-E:A custom installation does not preserve your files, settings, and programs. So, before installing E editions of Windows 7, make sure to back up your files and settings to an external hard disk, USB Flash Drive, or other media. After the installation, move your files and settings back to your PC and reinstall the programs you want to keep using.It's a fair bet that some consumers will lose important data, because they are simply not computer literate enough to do a clean installation.Whether the crippled version will satisfy the European Commission is a different matter. The EC does seem to have realised that its decision in an earlier case on the media player -- where it rejected Microsoft's last-ditch offer to install several media players and insisted on a special version of Windows with no media player at all -- was clueless and stupid, and had no effect because nobody bought it.Microsoft has followed the EC's precedent by deciding to leave out IE, but this time around, the EC apparently wants multiple browsers. This "has left some antitrust lawyers in Brussels scratching their heads," according toThe New York Times, which quoted Alec Burnside, a competition lawyer at Linklaters in Brussels, saying: "You would expect them to say 'Thank you' and close the case."Providing multiple browsers would be a problem because Microsoft has no obvious rights to bundle other people's code, and even if it did, it couldn't make the alternative suppliers meet its programming standards, or comply with its multi-year schedules for programming and testing: Windows could be derailed by (say) Firefox bringing out a new version at the last minute. The EC plainly doesn't have a clue what shipping an OS the size of Windows in multiple languages on a global scale entails.However, the point at issue isn't whether the IE-free Windows 7E is bad for consumers (it is), bad for the EC (ditto) or even bad for Microsoft. It's a very good bet that the EC would have sued Microsoft for including the browser, so the only real question is whether it can sue Microsoft fornotincluding the browser.Either way, it's clear that that European consumers and now being harmed partly as a result of "anti-trust tourism" mainly by American firms, who are using the European Commission as a competitive weapon. (Opera is European, of course, but how is Microsoft responsible for its browser's minuscule market share when Firefox is very widely used?)Including a browser has been perfectly acceptable in Europe since 1995, with regard to Windows and every other operating system, and it's something that US courts have specifically ruled is acceptable in Microsoft's case. It's still acceptable in Europe on other devices, including mobile phones and games consoles. It's hard to see why it should suddenly become unacceptable in the EC at a time when Microsoft's browser is rapidly losing market share to Firefox, and Google is promoting Chrome from the front page of the world's most powerful web site.Surely not even the EC thinks Microsoft is blocking the installation of other browsers, or holding back browser innovation (with IE8, it's still playing catch-up).But it's important to remember that the issue only affects the tiny proportion of Windows sold separately rather than pre-installed. Retail PCs running Windows 7 will continue to come with whatever the supplier chooses. Thanks to earlier US anti-trust actions against Microsoft, PC makers can install any browsers they like. In fact, they'll install almost any crapware someone pays them enough to install. Caveat emptor.In the end, then, the EC's interference with the commercial actions of one American company isn't going to make a lot of difference, except to suffering consumers. It's what the 10,000+ independent PC suppliers do that matters.Update: Microsoft has posted US details and its own interview with Brad Brooks on theWindows Team Blog.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; The tension between Google and Beijing stepped up a gear last night,as the internet giant's services went down temporarily inside China, in what one local entrepreneur called "definitely a warning to Google, as well as other foreign companies".&bull; When MySpacechanged its chief executive, everybody predicted the move would spell trouble.They were right. Now fellow social network (sorry,businessnetwork)LinkedInhas just changed its leadership, moving presidentJeff Weiner to the role of chief exec. This time it's beenmootedas a sign of strength, not weakness.&bull; Happy Thursday! As a special gift I have an edition of Technology Guardian for you! You just have to go into a newsagent and give them 90p. In it, you'll find out howApple will fare if Steve Jobs has to reduce his commitmentsto the company; we look at theeffect jailing five spammers will really have, and Jack sees what Intel'sgot up its sleeve.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
I am a DJ making tentative steps into digital music. I have a MacBook, which I will incorporate into my sets. How can I ensure music CDs are imported at the highest possible quality? Also, what is the difference between a music file of 320kbps and a WAV file?Stuart EveFor maximum sound quality you will need to do some "secure ripping," where the standard is a Windows-only program, EAC (Exact Audio Copy). The guide atHydrogen Audioreckons XLD (X Lossless Decoder) is a Mac equivalent, and "it's the only application for Mac OS/X that uses the AccurateRip database used by both EAC and dbPowerAMP".Maxlooks like a good alternative.WAV, the waveform audio format, is a Microsoft file format that usually contains uncompressed audio using linear pulse code modulation or LPCM. Audio CDs also use LPCM encoding, so a WAV file can provide the same sound quality as the CD. (The Mac equivalent is AIFF.)WAV files are easy to edit but very large, as shown by the number of tracks on an audio CD. Their size can be reduced by using a lossless compression system such as FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec). However, most people convert to a "lossy" format such as MP3, AAC or WMA. This produces very small files, but there is inevitably some loss of quality. Whether the difference is audible is another matter.Briefly, very few untutored people can hear the difference between a 256kbps LAME-encoded MP3 file and a WAV file. (You can learn to hear differences, but why would you want to?) However, this depends on the quality of the reproduction. The fact that you can't hear the difference on an MP3 player with nasty earbuds or a tabletop DAB radio doesn't mean they won't be audible through a decent hi-fi with studio monitors. You therefore need to do some listening tests with your own equipment to find out if you can hear the difference. As laptop computers are not hi-fi devices, I'd be quite surprised if you could consistently tell 320kbps MP3 or (technically better) AAC files from WAV files when both are played from a MacBook.Incidentally, MacRumors has a very brief guide toDJing on a Mac, with links to the most popular software and devices. As you're combining digital with analogue sources, you may find a "digital vinyl system" such as Serato Scratch Live of interest, albeit at a hefty price.
Is Demon throttling the BBC iPlayer? I have three PCs and all three can get to the iPlayer website, but no content will play. It was OK last Wednesday.Martin SaundersIf three different PCs stop working then it's likely to be a problem either at your ISP or the BBC. If it's a BBC problem, it may well be raised in the iPlayer'sGeneral Discussion Forum, and this is a good place to ask questions. However, sometimes a workaround is to download programmes and view them offline.Demon doesn't say it throttles content but it has aFair Usage Policy. It will "restrict the download speeds of very heavy users during peak periods, should their activities significantly contribute towards the risk of reduced speeds being experienced by the majority of our broadband customers. The peak period is currently 9am to 11pm."Ultimately, the performance of an internet connection depends on the number of people using it. The assumption was most people would not be using the internet most of the time, hence "contention ratios" of 50:1 for consumer broadband services, and 20:1 for more expensive business broadband. If 50 home users all have multiple PCs running at once then the system probably won't cope. Everyone is better off if that traffic is managed than not.
I have the usual Vista defrag tool and in addition Iolo System Mechanic Pro. Do they complement or work against each other?Donald MacIntyreWhen you use your PC, files of different sizes are downloaded and deleted all the time, and after a while, some files will be scattered all over the drive. Defragging the drive just rearranges the data so that each file's sectors are next to one another. If this is done, it's done. However, Vista's defrag tool tends to be less aggressive about completely defragging every file, and it's also very slow.For people who care about defragging, I suggest usingAuslogics Disk Defrag, which is better, faster and free. Iolo System Mechanic Pro may well do a similar job – I have not tried it – but it offers many other tune-up features as well. Either way, Vista's NTFS file system doesn't seem to benefit from defragging unless the fragmentation is really bad, so I don't think it's worth worrying about.
I'm using IE7 with Windows XP Pro SP3, and apart from it being very slow, I am getting random full page ads. I've tried various spyware/malware programs without success.Richard LyonYou are probably correct in thinking your PC has some sort of virus, possibly an adware trojan, and it may be one that you have installed with other software or via some sort of "social engineering" scam – you thought you were installing something else, usually a video codec. Sometimes it's hard to know where legitimate software stops and malware begins.Download the latest versions ofAvast!antivirus andSuperAntiSpyware, disable your ­current products, and install both. When you have all the latest updates, disconnect your PC from the net, set Avast! to scan on boot, and restart your PC. This should catch the malware before it loads.After Avast! has had a go, run SuperAntiSpyware, then repeat the process. If all that hasn't solved the problem, download and runMalwarebytes. It's very unlikely that you have managed to pick up something that is unknown to all of these. However, another reader – Laurence Raven – has just reported the same ­problem, so it's not impossible.
When I try to email photos from My Pictures (and when using other Office applications), my PC opens ­Outlook whereas I prefer to use ­Outlook Express. How do I configure it so that Outlook Express is the default emailer?David HoadleyOne way to set the default email program in Windows XP is to go to the Control Panel and run the applet called Internet Options. Click the Programs tab and, next to Email, pick whichever program you want from the drop-down list. Click OK to exit. Vista users have a different Control Panel applet called Set your default programs.
The Silly Season may be weeks away, but the Stupid Season is always with us.Yesterday it emerged that a mobile phone aimed at four-year-olds, already available in Ireland, is to go on sale in Britain toward the end of the year. The Firefly, as it is called, has only five buttons, including two hot keys for Mummy and Daddy.There can be no earthly reason why a child of four would need a mobile phone, but there must be dozens of reasons why it shouldn't have a Firefly. Here are just a few:• It is not possible to conduct a fruitful phone conversation with a four year old, as you will know if you have ever tried.• Four-year-olds rarely, if ever, have information to impart of such significance that it cannot wait until they are five.• A Firefly costs &pound;60. Without a sim card.• Your child should always be in the company of a responsible adult who has a phone you didn't have to pay for.• A four-year-old with its own phone will spend all day attempting to contact Pocoyo.• Four-year-olds never hang up.• 52% of children between the ages of five and nine already own a mobile. Chances are you will have to buy the child a phone next year anyway, and they won't want a pink toy that doesn't do YouTube.• If you don't know where your four-year-old is, there's no point in ringing him. He doesn't know where he is either.• For much less money you can get tiny T-shirts with your phone number and the word REWARD printed on them.• Four-year-olds are enough trouble as it is. The last thing we want to do is give them is the means to organise.
Steve Jobs's return to Apple and, we hope, health seems to have led to something much more interesting: the return ofFake Steveto his blog, The Secret Diary of Steve Jobs. This started to wake up a week ago with a simple headline: "Feeling ... strange. Am I ... in heaven?" It's now fully engaged with Livergate and associated press coverage.Fake Steve stopped writing his popular blog just under a year ago, tellingThe New York Timesthat "he had grown tired of his fictional creation, but mainly he was worried about making fun of a real person whose health has been a recent topic of speculation."Fake Steve directed readers to hisReal Danblog -- one started under his own name, Dan Lyons. However, this ran into trouble over Yahoo. In November,The Industry Standard's Jordan Golsonwrote:A frustrated Dan Lyons told me this afternoon that he is hanging up his personal blog at RealDanLyons.com after his Newsweek bosses made him yank a blog post where Lyons (rightfully) called Yahoo's PR staff "lying sacks of shit."It's no surprise that a Newsweek writer blogging under his own name couldn't get away with anything like the same amount of stuff as an anonymous blogger writing as a fake CEO.If Real Dan is returning to the Fake Steve scene refreshed and ready for action, we could be in for an amusing time. If not, it's not the end of the world. It's only a blog.
Virtually exploringVizerra provides a way to explore virtual 3D models of architectural wonders such as Angkor Wat and Macchu Picchu.Google against malvertisingWith malware links appearing in Google ads, Google has launched anti-malvertising.com "to help ad network customers conduct quick background checks".Beach/bathing ratingsThe European Environment Agency (EEA) and Microsoft have updated their Water Watch portal with new bathing water quality data.Secure TwitterIn response to malware links, Finjan says it has added Secure Twitter to its browser plug-in for IE and Firefox.Search 'lesser-used languages'A startup company in Hyderabad, India, has launched Setooz, a search engine that focuses on "lesser-used languages".First twitterthonComputer Aid is running the first charity "twitterthon" for computers to equip schools and hospitals in Africa.Windows 7 plannerMicrosoft has released a beta of MAP, its Assessment and Planning Toolkit 4.0, to help companies test their readiness for Windows 7.Football managementChampionship Manager 2010, due in September, will offer monthly downloads of real-world data so you can compare yourself with Fergie.
You may well be familiar with theUncanny Valley, the hypothesis put forward by Japanese roboticist Masahiro Mori that as the realism of virtual human representations increases, so any inaccuracies become more and more off-putting, even repulsive, to viewers.The problem is, as videogame environments edge ever closer toward 'photo realism', human characters are expected to keep up. Yet, consistently we encounter avatars with stiff movement, dead glassy eyes and unconvincing facial expressions. This is why Pixar avoided human characters for many years - and they're running render farms the size of a small country. Game developers need to do all this in real-time.Naturally, physics is taking a lead role in the ever more authentic representation of human characters and their clothing. Procedural animation - the real-time reaction of character limbs to different surfaces and stimuli, is growing in importance. Through middleware likeEuphoria(which Rockstar is using in most of its forthcoming titles) and proprietary techniques, developers are seeking to create truly responsive virtual humans.This is what the experts will be talking about today...The PanelGeorge Torres, Senior Software Engineer, Fight Night Round 4Nadeem Mohammad, NVIDIA PhysX Product ManagerJasen Whiteside, Project Art Director, Red Faction: GuerrillaDave Gargan, Principal Engineer, HavokMike Enoch, lead coder, Ruffian GamesRichard Hackett, Technical Director, BlitzChris Hecker, veteran programmer and game physics expertCharacter animation is another area that's becoming more complex every year, with elements like realistic cloth and hair movement. Where next?George Torres:It's interesting that you called out separate parts such as cloth and hair, that says a lot. I think both in games, and in pre-rendered art such as films and cartoons, we are doing a very good job of capturing realism – but, in interactive media particularly, this is only in a snapshot or still image. Once these parts start to move together the believability falls apart.In games right now we are still treating the human parts, such as hair, skin, muscles and the skeleton as very much separate entities. For example, you've probably seen a beautiful hair sim on a character swaying and moving around, then only to see it clip through the character's shoulder and ruin the illusion. It's only by taking all these very convincing simulations and animations as a whole and making them aware of each other that we will get anywhere close to realism.On Fight Night 4 we think we've made a step forward in this area. If you touch a living breathing person, the skin compresses and the harder you press the more the skin, then the muscle underneath will react to this pressure. In games right now the characters still look like they are made of a hard empty shell made out of triangles. The body needs to be thought of as a skeleton, layered with muscles and with skin draped on top.Take the face on our boxers. We looked at a lot of reference of people getting punched in the face and realised that every motion caused an infinitely different reaction. Therefore it made sense that the technology to create this reaction, in game, would have to have an awareness and intelligence of its own. We created a system where the facial features that animated, then the skin layered on top, all moved separately from each other. So, when a boxer is hit by a left hook, the 'left hook' facial animation gets triggered, the skin detects that the glove has hit the right hand side of the temple so it compresses and ripples away from the touch. The system is so good that it can detect what exact angle the glove has come from and how hard the punch is.Another step towards creating a believable character was to create a system of muscle textures and fat jiggle that detected what animation the boxer was playing. When the boxer went in for a punch, the muscles on his skin changed to reflect the movement and the fat on the boxer wobbled as a reaction to this.We need to extend technology such as this through the whole body, creating a series of actions and reactions. I've only touched on a few parts of how we can render our characters to make them look more believable. I think we've made some good progress in creating realism but we aren't there yet that's for sure. Having them look believable is only half the battle, they also need to behave believably to be convincing, particularly if we want to make videogames a more emotional experience. That is where the big challenge lies in the evolution of videogame characters but that is a whole other conversation.Fight Night 4 is probably the most advanced character physics driven sport game to date, and we are already working on the next steps. Muscular behaviour, tension, fatigue, awareness are likely to get to a new level. At the same time, simulating soft tissues, muscle bulging in conjunction with collision detection is an area that needs to take a new dimension. I foresee a merging of different disciplines like rigging, physics simulation and animation in a near future. That's anyway the direction that I'd like to take…Collisions needs to transmit information to muscle jiggle, which should also propagate back to skeletal animation, … Unification of sub systems is key in getting to lifelike characters. Our attempt on Fight Night is a step in the right direction, but we are just starting to scratch the surface.Most definitively, we plan on improving our character models by developing new technologies for muscle, fat, skin simulation, and having interactions with skeletal animation. Proper simulation of soft bodies, fluids, hairs, requires a huge amount of CPU power, so we are likely to see such solutions developed for next generation of consoles...Nadeem Mohammad:Humans are tuned to respond and react to the look and movements of other people – and as such character rendering and movement will continue to be critical to the overall experience in next generation games. Great character visualisation is dependent on several key factors: realistic character skeletal model movement, smart behavior, physical interaction, and hair, clothing and skin rendering and simulation.NVIDIA has been working very closely with Natural Motion on all these factors – and the fruits of this partnership have only just started to be made available to developers - expect to see characters that have physical hair which moves around based on wind and character head movements. Complex multi-garment clothing which interacts with other PhysX objects around them. APEX clothing enables developers to dress characters with clothes which are physically simulated and fully interactive without any additional programming effort.Richard Hackett:Character animation has moved on from hand crafted key frames to a complex combination of motion capture, real-time IK, AI behaviour together with traditional animation. Secondary motion such as cloth and hair are layered on top of all that. While these secondary effects are around they aren't really there yet.What is becoming more and more important, and this is something we have been concentrating on with BlitzTech, is the tools to control how all these systems interact and are combined over time. This is something that creatively really needs to be in hands of the animators not a physics programmer.Jasen Whiteside:In my opinion, advancements really must depend on the needs of the game. There are certain secondary elements that will add to just about any game's character animation – items such as cloth simulation and hair movement – but doing too much could also detract from what you want the player to experience and (unfortunately) it all costs frametime.If a game uses close up conversations or fight sequences where the characters are featured prominently on screen, appropriate facial animation and muscle deformation could add a good bit of realism without becoming distracting. Betterinverse kinematicsthat allows characters to grasp their weapons and attach to other characters or objects in the world could benefit from physics implementations that would for example take the weight of weapons and vertical travel of the character during a run cycle into account, causing some natural secondary movement of the weapon being carried. This same idea could be used to give characters a more natural ability to grasp moving objects, react to impacts, etc.Chris Hecker:I think the biggest hurdle here is how to integrate traditional animation with physics. Right now, most game characters play normal animations until they're killed, and then they get turned into ragdolls (which are jointed rigid bodies as mentioned above). People are trying to figure out how to integrate the two techniques more seamlessly, so you can have a traditional animation of a character running, and then they get knocked over and get up, and it looks natural, things like that. Hair and cloth are other examples of the continuum dynamics stuff mentioned above, so yeah, they're hard, but will get better.Dave Gargan:Almost all modern games treat animation by composing and blending preauthored animation clips at runtime. Usually the seams between these are blended to produce smooth transitions. This produces an animation stream that is continuous in terms of position and rotation but discontinuous in terms of velocity/momentum. Often to compensate for this artists will go in and create very specific animations to handle explicit cases, for example it is not uncommon to see a specific animation that slides the character to a stop or causes them to lean forward before they start a sprint.But as the number of animations increases it becomes more difficult to fill in all the gaps. Some procedural techniques are helping somewhat but the quality of results are varied. We've seen a hugely positive response from our introduction of Havok Cloth. Essentially in game animation drives the input for a physical cloth simulation model. That means that if a character runs and stops suddenly momentum will be carried through in their garments and this secondary motion that preserves momentum is visually convincing. Havok Cloth extends to and deforming mesh and clients are using it not just for garments but also for bellies, hair and breasts. Expect to see secondary motion become a buzzword over the next couple of years. The effects are pleasing and controllable and they can be integrated easily into current game pipelines.Mike Enoch:More widespread usage of soft body dynamics such as cloth and hair simulation are to be expected, but you'll also see more detailed character models, with attached objects (pouches, weapons, equipment, etc) showing a lot of secondary motion as the character moves around.It's getting easier to make a character's skeleton and rigging more detailed as well.  With increased processing power it'll be more common to see characters with all of their fingers individually animated, detailed facial animation, and more complex rigging to stop the mesh from bending and twisting unrealistically.  Take a look at what CG movies are doing as well; games are only behind in terms of visual quality because we have to do it in real-time, I'm sure you'll see the same techniques they're using today in the games of tomorrow...
Is using air the answer to a longer-lasting lithium battery? It's a surprising question but one familiar to Professor Peter Bruce of the University of St Andrews.A new "air-fuelled" rechargeable lithium battery being developed in his research laboratory promises up to 10 times today's energy storage capacity.A normal lithium battery in your mobile or laptop consists of a graphite negative electrode, an organic electrolyte and lithium cobalt oxide as the positive electrode. Lithium is removed from the positive electrode on charging, moving back as the battery is used. Electrons flow through an external circuit, enabling useful power to be drawn."I was aware of the limitations of current lithium battery technology and that new approaches were needed," says Bruce, who has worked on energy materials for two decades.Bruce's research team is developing a new type of positive electrode made from porous carbon that takes its cue from "air electrodes" found in zinc-air batteries. However, in a lithium battery, the air electrode gives up to a 10-fold increase in energy density. Although oxygen remains part of the reaction discharge processes, it's now drawn through the battery surface to react with lithium ions (a manganese oxide catalyst is also present) within the carbon electrode."Our major breakthrough was to show the battery could be recharged," says Bruce about the Stair (St Andrews Air) cell. "The key is to use oxygen in the air as a reagent, rather than carry the necessary chemicals around inside the battery. Not only is this part of the process free, the carbon component is much cheaper than current technology."Professor M Saiful Islam at the University of Bath believes that this research work has "tremendous promise". "Major improvements in rechargeable lithium batteries are important for the electrification of road transport (hybrids, plug-in hybrids and pure electric vehicles) to help reduce CO2 emissions, as well as for the next generation of portable electronics."Funded by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, the four-year project will finish in 2011. It has already produced Stair cell prototypes and has a goal of a five- to tenfold increase in lithium battery storage capacity. Now, the research team is working towards making a smaller prototype suitable for mobile phones and MP3 players. Perhaps not surprisingly, Bruce has found "very great interest from all quarters".
Laptop DJI am a DJmakingtentative steps intodigital music. I have a MacBook, which I willincorporate into my sets. How can I ensure music CDs are imported at thehighest possible quality? Also, what is the difference between a music file of 320kbps and a WAV file?Stuart EveJS:For maximum sound quality you will need to do some "secure ripping," where the standard is a Windows-only program, EAC (Exact Audio Copy).The guide at Hydrogen Audioreckons XLD (X Lossless Decoder) is a Mac equivalent, and "it's the only application for Mac OS/X that uses the AccurateRip database used by both EAC and dbPowerAMP".Maxlooks like a good alternative. WAV, the waveform audio format, is a Microsoft file format that usually contains uncompressed audio using linear pulse code modulation or LPCM. Audio CDs also use LPCM encoding, so a WAV file can provide the same sound quality as the CD. (The Mac equivalent is AIFF.) WAV files are easy to edit but very large, as shown by the number of tracks on an audio CD. Their size can be reduced by using a lossless compression system such as FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec). However, most people convert to a "lossy" format such as MP3, AAC or WMA. This produces very small files, but there is inevitably some loss of quality. Whether the difference is audible is another matter.Briefly, very few untutored people can hear the difference between a 256kbps LAME-encoded MP3 file and a WAV file. (You can learn to hear differences, but why would you want to?) However, this depends on the quality of the reproduction. The fact that you can't hear the difference on an MP3 player with nasty earbuds or a tabletop DAB radio doesn't mean they won't be audible through a decent hi-fi with studio monitors. You therefore need to do some listening tests with your own equipment to find out if you can hear the difference. As laptop computers are not hi-fi devices, I'd be quite surprised if you could consistently tell 320kbps MP3 or (technically better) AAC files from WAV files when both are played from a MacBook.Incidentally, MacRumors has a very brief guide toDJing on a Mac, with links to the most popular software and devices. As you're combining digital with analogue sources, you may find a "digital vinyl system" such as Serato Scratch Live of interest, albeit at a hefty price.iPlayer problemsIs Demon throttling the BBC iPlayer? I have three PCs and all three can get to the iPlayer website, but no content will play. It was OK last Wednesday.Martin SaundersJS:If three different PCs stop working then it's likely to be a problem either at your ISP or the BBC. If it's a BBC problem, it may well be raised in theiPlayer's General Discussion Forum, and this is a good place to ask questions. However, sometimes a workaround is to download programmes and view them offline.Demon doesn't say it throttles content but it has aFair Usage Policy. It will "restrict the download speeds of very heavy users during peak periods, should their activities significantly contribute towards the risk of reduced speeds being experienced by the majority of our broadband customers. The peak period is currently 9am to 11pm."Ultimately, the performance of an internet connection depends on the number of people using it. The assumption was most people would not be using the internet most of the time, hence "contention ratios" of 50:1 for consumer broadband services, and 20:1 for more expensive business broadband. If 50 home users all have multiple PCs running at once then the system probably won't cope. Everyone is better off if that traffic is managed than not.Defragging WindowsI have the usual Vista defrag tool and in addition Iolo System Mechanic Pro. Do they complement or work against each other?Donald MacIntyreJS:When you use your PC, files of different sizes are downloaded and deleted all the time, and after a while, some files will be scattered all over the drive. Defragging the drive just rearranges the data so that each file's sectors are next to one another. If this is done, it's done. However, Vista's defrag tool tends to be less aggressive about completely defragging every file, and it's also very slow.For people who care about defragging, I suggest usingAuslogics Disk Defrag, which is better, faster and free. Iolo System Mechanic Pro may well do a similar job – I have not tried it – but it offers many other tune-up features as well. Either way, Vista's NTFS file system doesn't seem to benefit from defragging unless the fragmentation is really bad, so I don't think it's worth worrying about.Popup ads revisitedI'm using IE7 with Windows XP Pro SP3, and apart from it being very slow, I am getting random full page ads. I've tried various spyware/malware programs without success.Richard LyonJS:You are probably correct in thinking your PC has some sort of virus, possibly an adware trojan, and it may be one that you have installed with other software or via some sort of "social engineering" scam – you thought you were installing something else, usually a video codec. Sometimes it's hard to know where legitimate software stops and malware begins.Download the latest versions ofAvast!&nbsp;antivirusand SuperAntiSpyware, disable your ­current&nbsp;products, and install both. When you have all the latest updates, disconnect your PC from the net, set Avast! to scan on boot, and restart your PC. This should catch the malware before it loads.After Avast! has had a go, run SuperAntiSpyware, then repeat the process. If all that hasn't solved the problem, download and runMalwarebytes. It's very unlikely that you have managed to pick up something that is unknown to all of these. However, another reader – Laurence Raven – has just reported the same ­problem, so it's not impossible.Backchat• Dave Null's microwave was affecting his Wi-Fi network. Michael Sanders says: "He needs to get his microwave checked NOW, as this is dangerous. If the microwave is faulty he should get rid of it. If the oven isn't leaking then there is a problem with the power supply."• Alan Pike wanted a screen for reading two A4 documents side by side. Jim Turner says: "My 17in Dell laptop runs at 1440 x 900 and will easily display two A4 documents with 10-point type."
The internet is playing such a key role in ­getting information out of Iran that attention has focused, once again, on how much Iran controls the internet within its borders. Iran controls the internet gateways into the country, and in 2006 the government outlawed any connection faster than 128kbps – until the policy met stiff opposition from business leaders and even members of the Iranian parliament.It's easy to point to countries such as Iran, which the Open Net Initiative says maintains some of the most extensive internet controls in the world, while overlooking the increasing filtering and surveillance of the internet in Europe.Yaman Akdeniz, the director of Cyber-Rights and Cyber-Liberties, spoke at the recent Deutsche Welle Global Media Forum about the increasing number of websites blocked in Turkey. In 2007, the Turkish parliament fast-tracked ­legislation to regulate the internet, ­passing the bill in just 59 minutes. Supporters defended the legislation on the grounds that it would protect children. In two years, the number of sites blocked went from zero to 2,600.But many of the sites being blocked have little to do with protecting children from inappropriate content. Blogger, Google's blogging service, was blocked temporarily because one blog was being used to distribute pirated videos of football matches. Richard Dawkins's site was blocked over complaints from Turkish creationists, and Turkey is one of a handful of countries in the world that completely blocks YouTube, Akdeniz says. The Turkish government had asked YouTube to remove videos seen as defamatory to the founder of modern Turkey, Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. YouTube's owner, Google, offered to block Turkish users from seeing the offending videos, but the Turkish government demanded the videos be taken down from the global site.Of course, whether in Iran or Turkey, the filters are ineffectual.The Turkish government may be able to block YouTube on computers, but they haven't figured out how to block the service on Apple's iPhone. But it's not just on the edge of Europe, in Turkey. Let's look to the heart of Europe, to Germany, which has just passed a law to crack down on child ­pornography sites by adding offending sites to a DNS blacklist.German net activists launched an e-petition opposing the plan. They needed to get at least 50,000 signatures in six weeks for the petition to be read in parliament, but they needed only three days to get that number. When the ­petition was closed six weeks later, it had 130,000 signatures, making it the most successful e-petition.Instead of using filtering technology, the internet community suggested targeting the offending sites. Using leaked blacklists – such as Germany was proposing – net activists were able to get 60 sites containing child pornography shut down, by contacting international internet service providers, the internet activist and blogger Markus Beckedahl said.The German government backed down on completely blocking the sites after civil rights and even victims' rights groups joined internet activists to oppose the plan. Now, internet users coming to a restricted site will see a ­government warning telling them viewing child pornography is a crime, but the user will still be able to access the site.Child pornography is an easy target, and it has long been used as a rallying cry by internet censors. But we often don't know what is being blocked.Here in the UK, it is illegal to even look at the list of blocked sites kept by the Internet Watch Foundation. And while a crackdown on websites makes good headlines, net activists question whether the filtering works or tackles the issue of the exploitation of children."Instead of effectively investing time and efforts to have illegal content removed from the internet, the German government is choosing censorship and blocking – an easy and dangerous way out," says Beckedahl.Akdeniz told Deutsche Welle, "In a sense, blocking access to these Web sites does not necessarily make the problem go away. We just push it off our computer screens — whether in Germany or the United Kingdom or any other country- but that doesn't necessarily mean the serious problem of sexual exploitation of children and child pornography disappear from the Internet."
Doom, Quake –id Softwarewere star gaming developers of the 90s. Less high profile this century id are still a big(ish) deal. So today's news that ZeniMax Media (the parent company of Oblivion publisher Bethesda Softworks) have snapped them up is pretty interesting. Not because this yet another sign of industry consolidation - it is -  but mainly because anything that helps make the first-person combat more fluid in Bethesda's sprawling and wonderful role playing games has to be a good thing.  Or maybe I'm reading too much into the release when it says:The acquisition by ZeniMax Media joins together two of the finest, most respected videogame developers in the world, combining the first person shooter (FPS) expertise of id Software with acclaimed role playing game (RPG) developer Bethesda Game Studios – creators of the 2008 Game of the Year, Fallout 3, and the 2006 Game of the Year, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. Bethesda Softworks will publish the titles of id Software other than upcoming releases previously committed to other publishers.Veteran coder and founder of id John Carmack will remain in charge of the studio and seems very excited.We will be bigger and stronger, as we recruit the best talent to help us build the landmark games of the future.  As trite as it may be for me to say that I am extremely pleased and excited about this deal, I am.But clearly the question here is are *you* excited? Id were great back in the day, especially if you had a PC and an internet connection, but are they still relevant today?  Or is this simply just great news for gamers?
Traffic lights will communicate directly with cars, if an Intel research project comes to fruition. Also, "my taillight will communicate with your headlight," says Intel's Vu Nguyen, "using Visible Light Communication (VLC): imagine morse code, but very fast. You can't see it, but the light is flickering." The idea behind VLC is to provide safety features such as "brake assist", so if the car in front brakes, your car will hit the brakes before you do.It sounds a bit of a long shot because of the infrastructure required. However, there's already aVisible Light Communications Consortium(vlcc.net) and Intel wants to be in at the beginning, helping to establish standards and developing the building blocks that companies will use to make products. That's an approach Intel has already taken with USB, Wi-Fi, WiMax and other standards, and VLC has a particular appeal: you don't need a licence to use light for signalling.A day at the museumNguyen, a senior technology evangelist in Intel's research department, was demonstrating a system mockup with a car dashboard, new LED traffic lights and a big screen at Intel's eighth annual Research Day, held last week in the Computer History Museum, Mountain View, California. A working model of Charles Babbage's Difference Engine on the museum's ground floor reminded us how much IT progress depends on manufacturing capabilities.Research Day was "show and tell" on a grand scale, and Intel flew in technology journalists – not just from Europe but from Australia, Japan and other countries – to enjoy the experience. We got a speech from Intel's chief technology officer, Justin Rattner, an in-depth look at silicon photonics, and a conducted tour of Intel's own museum.Rattner told us that Intel's old Corporate Technology Group no longer existed, it has been reorganised and renamed: "We're now Intel Labs and proud of it," he said. "But there's not really a change in what we do. Ultimately, our success is the company's success. Research that doesn't find its way into a product isn't of much value."This is a marked contrast from Microsoft, the other half of the Wintel duopoly, which has similar "show and tell" events to inform its staff what its researchers are doing. Microsoft Research is run like a university computer science department by a man who used to run a university computer science department – Rick Rashid.Rattner says Intel's researchers start by finding out what the company's problems are, because "ultimately they translate into research objectives. I like to think Intel is somewhat unique in its ability to align its research with its business objectives." At the moment, Rattner's hot topic is the embedded chip market, where Intel is pushing its Atom processor for mobile devices. Much of this research is being done under the Carry Small, Live Large banner. Nguyen's effort to turn cars into communicating computing platforms (with broadband delivered via WiMax networks) is part of that.So is the Classmate PC effort for schools, where the Intel research scientist Trevor Pering was showing off a new trick: people-proximity audio sensing. Imagine a classroom full of children, each with their own Classmate netbook. The software listens to what the kids are saying and creates ad hoc networks for the small groups who are working together.Intel is expanding its commercial Wi-Fi networking system with My WiFi technology (MWT) for PCs, which maintains two network stacks at once. The product manager Gary Martz says you still have your original LAN (local area network) connection to the internet, but get an extra virtual network for your PAN (personal area network). This provides a fast connection to cameras, printers, digital photo frames, TVs and mobile phones.MWT will be part of Intel's next-generation Calpella platform for laptops with Nehalem processors, which will be available later this year, I'd guess with Windows 7. However, if you run Mac OS X, Linux or Windows XP, hard luck. "My customers are PC OEMs (original equipment manufacturers)," says Martz. "They're ­interested in selling new equipment: they don't want to introduce new technologies for old platforms. We will make the drivers available online, but we're not investing in XP."But, as with most Intel software, MWT will be free. As Rattner notes, somewhat wryly: "We do an enormous amount of software development today, but it often disappears into someone else's ­product."Another of Rattner's enthusiasms is the 3D web, and he saysIntel is supporting ScienceSim, which is based on OpenSim. It's like an enhanced version of Second Life. "Now, scientists anywhere in the world can put up a 3D virtual world," he says. "Unlike Second Life, this is much more like putting up a web page, but you get avatars and all the things you'd expect from a 3D world."ScienceSim does have practical and educational uses as a meeting place and a research world where you can customise the physics. The not-so-hidden agenda is that Intel is promoting something that can consume vast quantities of processing power, the majority of which will be provided by Intel chips …Dual duellingBut the two biggest hits from Research Day 2009 may not do much for Intel's profitability. The first was virtual fencing, demonstrated with light sabres, which attracted TV crews and just about every reporter with a video camera. This used stereo video cameras to capture the movements of two combatants at different locations and show the results on a single screen.The Teeve (Tele-immersive Environment for EVErybody) system was developed on a joint Intel-Microsoft project on parallel computing at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, and inspired comparison to Microsoft's Project Natal for the Xbox 360. However, Raoul Rivas said: "Natal uses avatars: we use real video. We think that's superior becausepeople want to see themselves interacting."Rivas suggested the system could be used for things like doctor and patient consultations. I suggested he try the San Fernando Valley, home to America's porn industry.The other hit was Rob Ennals from Intel Research Berkeley, with Confrontational Computing, which highlights"disputed points of view"on websites. It's based on crowdsourcing, with people voting texts up and down. It works as a Firefox browser extension, and wasreleased last week as Dispute Finder.Ennals says the system alerts people to disputed or misleading statements on blogs or websites when otherwise they might take them at face value. A later version will include speech recognition to pick up disputed statements on TV or radio. There's never likely to be a shortage of those.
Making a successful console is a remarkably tricky process. Unless the right  launch titles are picked, or effective marketing and pricing are used, it's very difficult to convince a gamer to part with £200 to £300 for something that may well be obsolete within a couple of years. For every Wii, there's a GameCube. For every MegaDrive, there's a Sega Saturn. Here are a few systems that failed to cut the mustard.3DO Interactive Multiplayer, 1993Panasonic's attempt to claim a share of the Nintendo/Sega dominated 90s console market never really got off the ground. Despite a much-hyped launch (the system was Time magazine's 1994 product of the year) the hefty price tag put off any gamers not already fiercely loyal to the italian plumber or blue hedgehog – despite offering 32 bit CD gaming a year before the Sony PlayStation. The lack of any outstanding software was the nail in the system's coffin. Now remembered most fondly for carrying one of the most well regarded versions of the motorcycling-while-hitting-people-with-lead-piping classic Road Rash.Nintendo Virtual Boy, 1995Proof that even Nintendo make mistakes, one of the company's biggest missteps was the Virtual Boy, an attempt to bring 3D effects to the portable gaming market. Despite offering a couple of decent games the system had two major drawbacks; one, that the "portability" offered was severely limited – the eyepiece had to be placed so it could stand exactly at eye level to be comfortable; and two, that gamers would report of watering eyes and headaches if the system was played for more than 10-15 minutes at a time.  Less than a million were sold, making the console hot property for collectors and sadomasochists alike.Atari Lynx, 1989On the face of it, it seems odd that the Lynx wasn't a roaring success. For original Game Boy users, the idea of playing portable games on a colour screen must have seemed like some unimaginable luxury – the Lynx, released two years before the similarly unsuccessful Sega Game Gear offered just that, and some nine years before Nintendo would release its Game Boy Color. Despite this advantage, the Atari system was considered unwieldy, and sapping six batteries in just a few hours, prohibitively expensive to run (let alone costing twice as much as a Game Boy on its launch). Plus, it didn't have Tetris. Or Mario. It had Chip's Challenge. Which says it all really.TurboGrafx-16, 1987NEC's attempt to enter the late-80s console war seemed destined for success – like the 3DO it offered more processing power than any of its rivals on release, offering 16-bit gaming a year before the Sega MegaDrive. Like so many failed consoles however, the system lived and died on its software, and with many developers choosing to work instead with Sega or Nintendo, the TurboGrafx was unable to offer anything like the extensive games catalogue that would be accumulated by the SNES and MegaDrive, let alone any games of the quality of Sonic or Mario – games alone worth buying a system for.Apple Bandai Pippin, 1995Hark back, if you will, to a time before iPhones and iMacs, when Steve Jobs was much less famous than Bill Gates and Apple was still more often than not suffixed with the word Macintosh. Even hardcore Apple-philes may never have heard of the Pippin, the company's sole foray into the world of home gaming consoles. Designed by Apple but produced by Bandai, both companies must share the blame for this ill-conceived attempt to sneak a PC-like games system into our living rooms. The right system backed by a company liked Apple could have made a real impact in the marketplace (as the Xbox later proved). With sales reportedly falling below the 50,000 mark, Sega and Nintendo bosses probably didn't lose too much sleep.
Sex. Got your attention? OK, good. I'll try again. Games. Still here? Excellent. Now that I've got your number, let's try the two of them together: sex and games. Hello? Nothing? Where did you go? How strange. You'd think that sex-plus-games would equal a rush of eager gamers waving fists of cash, but according to Brenda Brathwaite, founder of the International Game Developers Association's Sex in Games special interest group, the adult entertainment industry has never really had a look-in. They may have propelled other digital innovations, but when it comes to console-based hanky-panky, grown-up situations have been a turn-off.It's not for want of trying. Brathwaite says that when she landed a job as producer on Playboy: The Mansion, in 2005, she found there were countless games developers building titles around love, intimacy and, well, hanky-panky, but they were lost in an ocean of family values propriety, wandering souls buried under regulations and smothered by distributor blacklists, treated as "specialists" whose products only saw the light in extremely independent competitions. And so, with only the odd interruption of a virtual carnal nature, game controversies are dominated by violence. Depravity just isn't on the regulator's radar.And can you imagine what would happen if it were? Just look at the furore over the scenes uncovered in the code of GTA: San Andreas. For heaven's sake, they were two consenting (digital) adults in an 18-rated game: why did it end up such an issue that the then senator Hillary Rodham Clinton tried to get it banned? Such top-down puritanism forces creative conformity in games for fear that explicitly including sex scenes would lead to a loss of filthy lucre - when on earth has that been the case?This paradox only occurs in the games industry, and it has stifled the development of titles that inspire a different kind of emotional impact than the one that comes from executing a clean headshot. Sex in games can be innocent, it can challenge designers to innovate: witness the tremendous show from the developers at this year's Game Developers Conference, tasked with creating a product tackling "My First Time". There was humour, there was pathos. There was very little intercourse. And they were compelling, involved, emotional.The games industry is awash in sexuality: booth babes adorn trade shows, networking happens in strip clubs, curvaceous ladies with tight tops are heroines. But sex has been a no-go activity. Until developers deal with this most basic of human urges, sex will remain the preserve of the teenage boy, sniggering behind his hand with a porn mag stuffed in his back pocket.
Well, OK,thank you Stephen Fry for that review of the iPhone 3GS. And now, let me have a go. Because the thing about the new iPhone, if you haven't got an iPhone (and lots of people haven't), is that it's not just the phone: there's also the fact, in the UK as in most other countries, that you're not just getting a phone; you're buying into a whole package, including O2, its UK carrier.My usual phone is a clunky (by comparison) Sony Ericsson that can take pictures and play music effortlessly, and may be able to do email – though how remains a mystery to me. The web is another country to it, as is GPS or Wi-Fi.The iPhone 3GS turns all that on its head: anything to do with the web, email, services such as Twitter and maps is a doddle; but things that are natural on a normal mobile phone, like sending a text or picture message, become fiddly.The iPhone 3GS looks just like its predecessor. But it's got a lot more inside: a magnetometer (hence it can act as a compass); "Voice Control", letting you make calls or choose music tracks by your voice; "Find my iPhone", which – allied to the paid-for MobileMe service – can let you track down your lost phone. (Read about that atThe Intermittent Kevin.) The compass is fun, orienting maps automatically, but you'd do as well with one from a shop.In many ways, the iPhone is laughable. You've only just got MMS, aka picture messaging? You've only just got a 3 megapixel camera? You've only just started to take video? Yes, yes, yes – all those things that other phones have been doing for ages.Perfection is still delayed. Sending a text, classed as a "message", is perplexing, until you realise that giving it a subject line classes it as an MMS; otherwise it's just a text message. O2's text/MMS/voice allowances aren't generous either, compared with other phones.Ditto for battery life. On its first charge, the new iPhone lasted 32 hours – including a couple of phone calls, some Wi-Fi use, GPS on, but no Bluetooth. On the second charge it managed about 30 hours, including more Wi-Fi use, no phone calls, no Bluetooth. Basically, you're going to be charging it every day, or every other day if you can manage to turn most of the services off. It's a little computer in your pocket, and computers are thirsty devils.The camera doesn't have image stabilisation (my Sony Ericsson does) and the light metering – feted by Apple fans – is ropey. A digital zoom would be nice too; perhaps that's next year's thing.And it's a mobile package. If you're already with O2, you'll know what its coverage is like; otherwise, check. Where I live, O2's signal is patchy, so that fabled unlimited data access (unlimited unless, of course, you're using it as a "dongle") might not be too useful.Oh, and price. It's fabulously expensive, isn't it? Minimum £29.38 a month, and £184.98 upfront. For an 18-month contract, the cheapest totals £714.And yet the iPhone 3GS is still best in class: the simple interface, the ease of setup, all of that before you get onto the thousands of third-party apps. As a phone, it's a bit so-so. As a tiny com­puter, though, it can't be bettered.Pros:fast, excellent web rendering; third-party appsCons:expensive, short battery life, extra for tetheringo2.co.uk/iphone
Steve Ballmer, the Microsoft chief executive, said today that the global advertising economy has been permanently "reset" at a lower level, warning that media companies should not plan for revenues to bounce back to pre-recession levels.Ballmer, speaking at the Cannes Lions International Advertising Festival, argued that traditional broadcast and print media would have to plan business models around a smaller share of the advertising market, as revenues continue to move to digital outlets."I don't think we are in a recession, I think we have reset," he said. "A recession implies recovery [to pre-recession levels] and for planning purposes I don't think we will. We have reset and won't rebound and re-grow."Ballmer, named media person of the year at this year's festival, also painted a bleak picture for the future of traditional media, arguing that newspaper publishers have failed to generate new revenues from the digital opportunity.He said that within 10 years all traditional content will be digital and yet, Google aside, publishers are failing to generate serious digital revenues."All content consumed will be digital, we can [only] debate if that may be in one, two, five or 10 years," added Ballmer."There won't be [only traditional] newspapers, magazines and TV programmes. There won't be [only] personal, social communications offline and separate. In 10 years it will all be online. Static content won't cut it in the future," he added."Some say that the ad-funded model has not led to profitability. Google's search site makes money but past Google is there a publisher with an ad-funded or fee-based model that has made lots of money? No."For media businesses to successfully evolve they must provide the right combination of context and relevance to make a compelling online proposition for consumers, according to Ballmer."There are problems with digital advertising. Start with content and the website environment and [ask] is it suitable for advertising. [That] question is somewhat in the balance as we move forward," he said.The old approach of simply trying to replicate a print newspaper online is doomed to fail, Ballmer added.During a question and answer session after his speech, Ballmer was also asked about Microsoft's interest in acquiring Yahoo."We have no interest in acquiring Yahoo. What we have said is that we will continue to remain open to a partnership with Yahoo," he responded.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
This month, a horde of Apple fans and developers crowded into San Francisco's Moscone conference centre to witness the company launch its new iPhone model. Usually the event would be headed by Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, but with their talismanic leader on medical leave – recovering from a liver transplant, it turns out – the task of demonstrating the new products on stage was left to one of his lieutenants, Scott Forstall.And the demonstration went wrong. Not once, but twice: first a balloon-inflating experiment failed embarrassingly, and then a guitar-based demo struck a bum note. It's hard to imagine that happening with Jobs, known for his gruelling preparations for his keynote speeches (Behind the magic curtain, 5 January 2006). Jobs, one could guess, wouldn't have included the balloon or the guitar demo, dubbed "most botched demos at an Apple keynote" byone blog.A simple mistake – or a portent? Whatever it was, get used to it. For months, most Apple staff – and its fans and investors – have rolled along happily in the expectation that Jobs, its co-founder, chief executive and chairman, would be returning to work some time around now, back from fixing "health problems" that had turned out "more complex than I originally thought", as Jobs put it in a rare press statement.It's unlikely to be that straightforward, however. Jobs's liver transplant means that unless he has the rarest and most robust of constitutions, he will not be back at full-time work as chief executive of the company by the end of this month.Recuperation from such a gruelling procedure takes months – and even then there remains the question of whether the pancreatic cancer that necessitated Jobs's liver transplant will have been suppressed. Medical opinion suggests that in the most successful transplants, basic recovery takes at least three months – and that "strenuous activity" can only be undertaken after six months. Additionally, patients will spend the rest of their lives taking immunosuppressant drugs, which increase the chance of cancer returning.The most likely outcome is that Jobs will have to accept that his medical needs will require him to take a reduced role, probably focusing on his role as chairman of the board, which he has been since 1997, rather than full-time chief executive.The day will come"He's a creative genius, without question," David Pearl, an investor with Epoch,told Bloomberg. "At the same time, the company is building itself for the day Steve isn't there, whether it's next year or in 10 years."The reality is that Apple has to begin preparing for life without Steve. And the question for the technology industry – and for Apple itself – is whether the company will be the same as a result. Can it continue to command the adoration of its fans, and make inroads into new markets in the same way that it has since he returned a decade ago? His absence from Apple in the 1990s marked a time when, in Jobs's own words, the company missed its best chance.In akey interview in 2004in Newsweek, Jobs said: "Who ended up running the company? Sales guys. At the critical juncture in the late 80s, when they should have gone for market share, they went for profits. They made obscene profits for several years. And their products became mediocre. And then their monopoly ended with Windows 95".Who's going to be running Apple? Possibly not "sales guys". The expectation, from outside, is that Tim Cook, who has been acting as chief executive in Jobs's absence, will take over, and that the company will proceed from there.Power struggleBut there's another possibility: a war at the top.John Gruber, a Philadelphia-based blogger with a number of Apple contacts, suggests the leak to the Wall Street Journal about Jobs's transplant came from a member of the company's board – perhaps displeased that the news, with its implications for the company's future, had not been transmitted to shareholders.If that's the case, there could be a power struggle as those who have been inside the company for years angle for position. That could turn ugly; there could be departures, and there is certainly no shortage of companies in Silicon Valley that would want to hire senior people from Apple. (Palm, which hasmade the former Apple hardware chief Jon Rubenstein its chief executive, is only one example.)If the leak came from Jobs, or somebody close to him, its insistence on his rapid return could indicate how reluctant he is to relinquish control. But the question still remains: can anyone do it like Jobs?What the company will really miss is his obsessive attention to detail. Mike Evangelist, who was in charge of Apple's DVD-burning software in 2001,recallsseeing Jobs growling "This feels like crap," about the headphone jack of the first iPod and demanding they all be changed – the day before the product's launch. The product engineer went off to do exactly that.Even back in the early days, Jobs took a ruthless approach to bells and whistles. Andy Hertzfeld, one of the team who worked on the original Macintosh, recalls creating a version of the computer with a switch that could invert the screen's display – useful for those who were used to old-fashioned green-on-black screens. Jobs took exception to the compromise: it was axed.Jobs has displayed a take-no-prisoners approach that has marked Apple out and given it a real advantage over its rivals. He negotiated with the record labels to let Apple set up the iTunes Music Store, succeeding where no other company had done so before. He took on the phone companies to get them to allow iPhone users to have unlimited data, which had previously been doled out byte by byte.Is Cook or Phil Schiller, the marketing chief who has stood in for Jobs in public, or even Forstall, able to negotiate like that? Would their design critique carry the same authority? It's the gaps in authority that could see Apple's future dribble away.Despite the fact that none of Jobs's inner circle are "sales guys", that may not be enough. Their challenge is to know when you need to kill a product (as Apple did with the hugely successful iPod mini) and when you need to let it mature. There is also the question of how many products is just enough. Would making a tablet be a product too far, or essential to the future? Jobs may be around to give his opinion on that decision – but increasingly, he won't.Sound visionRoger Kay, an industry analyst with Endpoint Technologies, says that although Cook and his colleagues are capable, the company still requires vision. "You can always do product extensions, it doesn't take a genius. Who's going to come up with a new product category that's going to do what the iPhone and the iPod have&nbsp;done?"Microsoft has faced a similar change, with the departure of Bill Gates and his replacement by Steve Ballmer. That changeover, which took place over the past 10 years, occurred at the same time as Microsoft's influence waned. It's due in part to the rise of the web and the decline in Microsoft's model – but also partly the result of the company losing a talismanic leader.The danger for Apple is even greater: that its early, and enormous, advantage in music, entertainment and the high-end mobile phone industry could be ­dissipated by Jobs's enforced absence. And that is something that the company – whoever is running it – can't afford.
Sadly not – but the news that the US department of justice has secured guilty pleas from five "prolific" spammers, including Alan Ralsky, might make other US-based spammers pause for thought. And many of the most troublesome spammers are based in the US, although they use ­servers in China and other countries to serve their wares.Ralsky, 64, and his son-in-law, Scott Bradley, 38, face maximum sentences of six years in prison and $1m fines for breaking the CAN-SPAM act and ­additional charges of wire fraud, money laundering and conspiracy to commit wire fraud.The latter activities will have attracted rather more law enforcement efforts than the first: the CAN-SPAM act, which became law in 2003, has been widely derided by anti-spam activists, partly because it gives spammers virtual carte blanche to spew out unwanted marketing messages without the ­receiver's permission, and bans individuals from suing the spammers – which could otherwise have shut many down.John Bown, William Neil, and James Fite also pleaded guilty, in Michigan, ­following theinvestigation which involved the US FBI, internal revenue service and postal inspection service.But it is unlikely that the conviction will make any real difference to levels of spam. Ralsky's home was raided by the FBI back in 2005, though that is not believed to have stopped his spamming.Spamhaus, the global anti-spam organisation which monitors the most prolific spammers,has had Ralsky in its sightsfor years. Its evidence suggests that he had used offshore sites to host ­spamming systems; some of the tricks he used to evade angry ISPs would, if used for good, be useful for anyone ­trying to evade censorship.Instead after the 2005 FBI raid ­Ralsky is alleged by Spamhaus to have switched his methods to using "botnet spamming", in which virus-infected ­computers are used to generate email messages – often for stock, or offered for hire to eastern European criminal gangs. "Since they have been at this since 1997, Ralsky and [his] gang know just about every spammer trick in the book," Spamhaus says.Cutting the amount of spam being generated remains one of the most intractable problems on the internet. And, while it has mutated into multiple forms – from its original incarnation in email and newsgroups, to blogs and most recently Twitter – the open nature of the network and the problem of ­disjointed legislation internationally means that nobody has worked out how to squash it.Instead, as with malware, it has ­created an enormous and a thriving security industry that offers jobs for many. Paradoxically, spam now offers employment for good people – as well as&nbsp;jail for the bad.
The Ordnance Survey consulted mapping agencies in Australia, Canada, France, the Netherlands, Norway, New Zealand, Sweden and the US in compiling its study into possible financial models, it has revealed. However, OS considers that "there are no wholly equivalent ­organisations ... given [our] range of scales of mapping and other activities", according to data that it released under a Freedom Of Information (FOI) request from the Guardian.Attention was immediately drawn to the identity of an unnamed "internationally recognised expert in geographical information and national mapping" who OS said had reviewed its study and "agreed with the analysis and conclusions". This led immediately on the Free Our Data blog to the question, posed by William Allbrook, "I imagine like many experts he/she will have had well-informed opinions. It would have been very easy for OS to choose one that was onside rather than one who might rigorously question the current trading fund status ... Would anyone other than me be curious to reveal his or her true identity?"OS responded that it is trying to establish whether the person mentioned was happy for their name to be released. The Guardian's FOI request was submitted on 25 May. Last Tuesday, 23 June, was the final day on which the data could be released by the FOI deadline. As this section went to press the second part of the FOI request – a copy of the analysis by OS of possible models – had not been released, although it was understood to be in preparation.OS said that the eight organisations studied "included organisations with a wide range of data pricing policies: free, partial cost recovery (of data dissemination costs), total cost recovery (data ­collection plus dissemination costs) and market price (cost recovery plus trading margin)". OS, as a "trading fund" wholly owned by government but obliged to ­generate a return on capital, in effect ­operates the last model – so its proposed model is unchanged.Further analysis of responses, and of the "International Comparison of ­Geographical Information Trading Models Study" will appear on the Free Our Data blog later this week.Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog
