Keanu Reeves and Laurence Fishburne performed. The Wachowski brothers wrote a 60-page script. Hollywood's finest lighting and sound technicians were hired and an Oscar-winning editor produced the final cut. But this wasn't a blockbuster movie from the makers of  The Matrix.  It was a video game.The distinction between films and games is blurred as never before, with leading directors, actors and crew increasingly working in both genres. Gaming as an industry has outgrown Hollywood to become worth &#163;17 billion a year worldwide, with titles such as The Sims played by more women than men.Now, in a sign of games' growing claim to definition as 'art', a festival at the National Film Theatre in London will explore the relationship between cinema and its not-so-poor relation.Speakers at the NTI*, or non-trivial interaction, event next month will consider a future in which computer - generated faces can express as much emotion as a human actor, the latest Julia Roberts romantic comedy is turned into a game and - to the horror of purists - film producers tailor scripts to include 'game-friendly' sequences.It is a world in which wannabe actors and other creative talents who once pursued their dreams in Hollywood are as likely to achieve fame and fortune in a software studio down the freeway.Among those already thriving is Dave Perry, 38, who, having grown up in County Antrim and Egham in Surrey, is now a multi-millionaire, married to a Hawaiian beauty queen, drives a BMW 760 and lives in a five-bedroom 'gadget house' overlooking the sea. His firm, Shiny Entertainment, has developed The Matrix: Path of Neo, to be released by Atari next winter.With the involvement of Larry and Andy Wachowski, directors of  The Matrix  film trilogy and other spin-off games, it is the boldest demonstration yet of the power of software developers.'When we started this game, we said to the Wachowski brothers, "Would you mind re-editing the movies for us?",' Perry said. 'They came up with a better ending than for the movies, so new footage is being made in Hollywood. We were able to laser-scan the actors and photograph them closely for 3D character models. We got the music and sound effects people to remake the music, and the painter to give us better lighting and atmosphere. We've got Oscar-winning people working on a video game.'It is a glimpse of the future, he argues. 'My prediction is there will be no A-list actor who will not have worked in a video game. The ones resisting don't play games and don't see the point, but they're having children, and then their children are getting addicted to the games, so they'll do it for the kids.'The cr&#232;me de la cr&#232;me of directors are all working on video games. That tells me the industry is tantalising beyond belief to these people.'The next generation of games consoles, such as Sony's PlayStation 3 and Microsoft's Xbox 360, allow game developers to produce near photo-realistic graphics.'In 10 years the graphical output has improved by 1 million per cent. It's hard to comprehend but what we're playing today will be a million times better looking in 10 to 15 years from now. We all talk about one day we'll be be able to look like  Shrek; we'll sail right past them. In 10 to 15 years what you'll see on screen will be pretty indistinguishable from real.'Among the leading film directors to seize on games potential are James Cameron, George Lucas, Ridley Scott, Steven Spielberg and Peter Jackson, whose latest project, King Kong, is both movie and game. Actors including Christian Bale, Marlon Brando, Michael Caine, Sean Connery and Clint Eastwood have performed specifically for games. Among their latest titles are versions of the films Batman Begins, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory,  The Chronicles of Narnia,  Dirty Harry, The Godfather, Jaws, Scarface, Star Wars: Episode III and Tim Burton's The Nightmare Before Christmas.Some critics see a threat to the artistic integrity of films, arguing that releases such as the  Star Wars prequels con tained sequences made with one eye already on the lucrative games market.Peter Molyneux, doyen of the British games industry and opening speaker at the NTI* festival, said: 'I know that some film makers planning releases for two to three years' time are talking to   games developers to ensure there are hooks for them. And when a game is made, there are talks to ensure there are hooks for a film. It is a two-way street.'Molyneux, director of  Lionhead - whose next game,  The Movies, allows players to make their own films and show them online - added: 'Both Hollywood and the games industry are running out of content. We've seen everything from  The Godfather to  The Dukes of Hazzard and the barrel is starting to run dry. The challenge is to do games for other kinds of films: how can we do a computer game of Desperate Housewives or Lost in Translation?'Iain Simons, director of the NTI* festival, said: 'The time is right for video games to place themselves at the heart of culture. It can be art: it has the potential to move and motivate.'But Barry Norman, the film critic, said: 'I don't think we're talking art, are we? We're talking commerce.'&#183;The NTI* festival is at the National Film Theatre on London's South Bank on 9-10 July. Tel: 020 7928 3232.
"Microsoft said yesterday that the Web browser in the next generation of Windows will be able to detect, display and subscribe to streams of news and information in a format called RSS, an increasingly popular method of receiving content online," reports theSeattle Post-Intelligencer."The feature, already included in rival browsers, is part of a broader push by the Redmond company to add RSS functions to the next Windows version, known as Longhorn, due out next year."Microsoft says that in addition to the RSS functions in Internet Explorer, it will offer technology in Longhorn to make it easier for outside software developers to create Windows-based programs that draw on RSS streams. For example, someone making a calendar program could give users the ability, within the program, to subscribe to feeds of information related to appointments or events, said Megan Kidd, a group product manager in the Windows division.Some new features involve the use of Microsoft's Simple List extension to RSS, as anInfoworldarticle makes clear.Officials said the company is proposing its own Simple List extensions to RSS that will better allow the technology to support ordered lists of information. Presently, RSS feeds are sent and received as streams of messages with their order being determined only by the time they were sent. Microsoft's extensions are reportedly offering a way to add ordering information so RSS feeds can more intelligently handle, for instance, a Web site's list of best-selling items."The RSS [Simple List] extensions we are developing can allow a content publisher to enable a Web site to publish feeds that represent ordered lists of items. We will make these extensions widely available to developers through the Creative Commons [license]," said Megan Kidd, a group product manager on the Windows team.
"The Premier of Blogcasting: Blogcasting is a new program being launched at this year's Conference, that offers a video-based online blog format with a twist. It will feature hosted interviews with speakers and key conference participants as well ad hoc commentary from our attendees. Our Conference commentator, David Weinberger - popular industry analyst, writer and blogger - will interview panel moderators as well as approach session attendees; distilling the key points, asking the questions on viewers' minds and pursuing the controversial topics. Informal, lively, entertaining and opinionated, Blogcasting will allow our attendees and virtual online viewers to connect to the life stream of the conference," says theintro.Our friend Weinberger interviews Mena "Six Apart" Trott, Chris "Long Tail" Anderson (Wired),Google's Andrew McLaughlin and many more.The site adds: "You may also follow the Blogcast coverage by our media partners, CNET News.com and Knowledge@Wharton at:http://supernova2005.news.com.
This time last week, Silvia Price, a single mother from Cheltenham in Gloucestershire, was looking forward to a relaxing weekend at the seaside with her 14-year-old daughter, Emily, when a buff envelope dropped through her letter box.Even though Mrs Price, a 53-year-old part-time cleaner who strains to earn a living, is used to getting demands for late payments in the post, nothing prepared her for the contents of this letter. Inside was a thick sheaf of legal documents naming her as a respondent in an intellectual property action brought by 14 leading record companies."It said I'd been caught illegally downloading music off the internet and had to pay a &#163;2,500 fine or else go to prison," said Mrs Price yesterday, still recoiling from the shock."I don't even use the computer - it's for my daughter. I thought: someone's messing me about."But the letter was deadly serious. On behalf of its client, the British Phonographic Industry, Wiggin, a high-powered media law firm specialising in the protection of music copyright, had just sent 30 similar letters to households across Britain. The latest salvo in the BPI's ongoing campaign against music piracy, the letters were designed to send a clear message to file sharers - people who exchange pre-recorded music over the internet - that as far as the major record labels were concerned, file sharing was no different from shoplifting.To drive home its point the BPI had obtained a high court order on behalf of its members whose rights had been infringed. That order, granted in March, read like a rollcall of recording industry names: Universal, Polydor, Mercury, Sony, EMI and Virgin.According to Wiggin, the BPI had evidence that Mrs Price's computer had been used to copy nearly 1,300 songs over Bearshare, a popular file sharing program. As proof, Wiggin enclosed a screenshot showing other Bearshare users downloading song files by artists such as Coldplay, Britney Spears and Girls Aloud from Mrs Price's computer. Believing its members' rights had been infringed, the BPI had written to her internet service provider, Telewest, and obtained her address. The summons informed Mrs Price that she had until July 1 to delete the files from her computer and write the BPI a cheque. After that date, it warned, the BPI could commence legal proceedings and its claim could rise to &#163;4,000.A week later Mrs Price is still struggling to understand what happened. She is also growing increasingly desperate. She says she only earns &#163;150 a week and cannot afford the fine. But even if she could pay it, she says she doesn't see why she should.Although the Telewest broadband contract was in her name, she says she never used it. She got the connection so that Emily could access the internet for schoolwork. Yes, she knew Emily was also using the computer to download music but her daughter had assured her the file sharing sites were legal."She said she wasn't doing anything that her friends weren't doing," said Mrs Price. "If every one was being summonsed fair enough, but to pick people out at random is unfair."Mrs Price is not the only one perturbed by the BPI's tactics. At this week's annual meeting of the Association of Independent Music (AIM), the body which represents smaller independent labels, there were grumbles that the prosecutions were disproportionate. To recall William Rees-Mogg's famous Times editorial defending Mick Jagger, the former enfant terrible of rock, following his 1967 arrest for possession of cannabis, the majors were breaking butterflies on the wheel.Advocates of file sharing point out that the vast majority of songs being uploaded have already been sold once at retail and are generally of inferior quality. Many filesharing libraries are also full of tracks best described as golden oldies - songs from the archives of rock which today's teenagers are loth to buy new."Of course artists have a right to protect their copyright but prosecuting individuals for file sharing is just ridiculous," says Rosie Bryant of Protest Recordings, a digital recording company that launched last year. "When I was a youngster and building up my first record collection, I used to record music from the radio and put it on cassette so that I could share it with my friends. The only difference now is that because of technology we can monitor it."However, AIM's chief executive, Alison Wenham, calls unauthorised downloading "a cynical and deplorable act". And the BPI argues that if anything it has taken a softly-softly approach.The Recording Industry Association of America, for instance, has been prosecuting file sharers since 2003. One of its first targets was a New York girl aged 12.In contrast the BPI first took out advertisements in the media to raise awareness. Only in March 2004 did it issue warnings to UK file sharers by sending 45m instant messages direct to uploaders' desktops. And it was not until October that it went to the high court to obtain an order forcing internet service providers to disclose the names and addresses of 26 of Britain's worst offenders. This week's letters bring that number to 90.The International Federation of the Phonographic Industry is taking similar action, suing 963 file sharers in 11 European countries. But the biggest battle of all is taking place in America's supreme court, where MGM is suing Grokster for distributing the peer-to-peer software exploited by file sharers.Entertainment companies are not the only ones watching the case with interest. If MGM succeeds it could spell the end of file sharing, and also threaten the future of BitTorrent, the revolutionary new protocol for downloading films and video files.According to the BPI, since 1999 sales of singles in the UK have more than halved, while album sales have dropped by a third. It says it is no coincidence that this decline coincided with the growth of Napster, the original free download service, and filesharing.It also says the losses undermine record companies' ability to invest in new artists. But whatever you think of the economic arguments - and one leading Harvard study argues that file sharing's effect on record sales has been negligible - the bottom line is that it's against the law."These prosecutions are not something we do for fun," says Steve Redmond, the BPI's communications director. "Our members are entitled to protect their rights - indeed, most artists' contracts require record companies to do so. We've been warning parents for months that file sharing is illegal. It's up to them to supervise their children's access to the internet and check the licensing agreements, not us."The problem is that although the individuals singled out by the BPI come from all over Britain and all walks of life (one is a financial adviser), in nearly every case the culprit has turned out to be someone's son or daughter. Moreover, when parents have looked into their children's activities more closely - and for many getting to grips with the technology has been a steep learning curve - shame has given way to indignation.Gina Harkell, a jazz musician from north London, is familiar with Mrs Price's predicament. In April she also received one of the BPI's envelopes after her 19-year-old son, Louis, was caught downloading songs from Kazaa.At the time Ms Harkell was in the process of putting the finishing touches to her third CD, The Bird in Me. Louis's &#163;2,500 fine, which her partner was being asked to pay because his name was on the internet account, came to half what she had just spent in the studio and on CD artwork.At first she was appalled. She wasn't able to confront Louis directly as he had just left for his gap year in Thailand. However, in a series of email exchanges interspersed with expletives, he explained that nowhere on Kazaa did it say that filesharing was illegal. He also said that he had never received a warning email from the BPI.When pressed by his mother, Louis admitted that he had known he was stealing, but that through Kazaa he had been able to re-educate himself musically: "He was mainly downloading songs by Bob Dylan and Otis Redding, stuff he would never have gone into a store and bought," says Ms Harkell."My feeling is that we were used as scapegoats. The BPI is trying to shut the stable door after the horse has bolted. Yes, I would like people to pay for my music but I do not think prosecut ing people for file sharing is the way forward."Indeed, Ms Harkell points out that for every musician friend who thought Louis ought to be "locked up", there was another who admitted that he or she illegally shared files.She also points out that for many struggling musicians, starved of airplay and review space, file sharing is an increasingly important promotional tool.One company which has embraced this philosophy is IE Music, whose artists include Robbie Williams, Craig David and The Sweet Chap, aka Mike Comber, a relative unknown from Brighton. Last year, IE Music did a deal with Kazaa, allowing file sharers to sample Comber's tracks for free.He got 70,000 hits and 500 sales - a key factor in his subsequently agreeing a record deal with Protest. The result is that music fans can now download tracks from his new album, Disco for a Domestic, for free for a limited period from Protest's website before deciding to commit themselves to buying it."For me file sharing was a great way of getting people to listen to my music," says Comber. "Obviously if it doesn't translate into sales then I will be disappointed. But while I think there should be some copyright protection for artists I don't believe that prosecuting children is the way forward."The BPI begs to differ. It says that once people get a taste for illegal file sharing, they are twice as likely to reduce or stop their retail purchases of records."This is a pragmatic, commercial business," says Steve Redmond. "If we thought file sharing was a wonderful promotional tool we might take a different view, but it isn't. The fact is if you didn't have speed cameras people would speed, and if we don't show that the copyright law has teeth we're going to be out of business."So far, most people targeted by the BPI have paid up. According to the BPI, it is not in the business of punishing respondents. After getting in touch with the BPI, Ms Harkell was able to negotiating paying the first &#163;500 of Louis's fine. He will have to pay off the remainder at a rate of &#163;25 a month when he starts university in September. "I've told him he won't be drinking much beer in the union bar," says Ms Harkell.However, Mrs Price argues that paying is simply not an option for her or her daughter. "I'm not going into debt," she says. "Emily just saw the words, 'download for free'. It's not her fault she didn't read the small print."When is it illegal to share files?Filesharing programs like Kazaa, are effectively a huge network of "friends" lending each other their CDs for copying. The software enables you to search the directories of other users on-line and automatically download music files from their computers.The business of catching file-sharers is far more low-tech than might be imagined. The BPI simply logs on to the filesharing networks and searches for copyrighted tracks. After finding a user downloading the file, the sharer's details are logged. Then the user's address is traced via their internet service provider and a summons is issued.It is not actually illegal to own filesharing software, nor is it necessarily against the law to use it. The programs have legitimate uses, such as distributing copyright-free music. However, the vast majority of music available will be copyrighted, and downloading it will be a breach of the 1988 Copyright, Designs and Patent Act.While the authorities consider downloaders a pest, it is those who make their music libraries accessible - the "uploaders" - that have been the main focus of the BPI's litigation.Many file-sharers try to avoid detection by switching off the upload function. But a recent survey by Entertainment Media Research found that the BPI's campaign had prompted many serial downloaders to abandon filesharing.But it is arguable that the arrival of big, legal download services, such as Apple's iTunes store, has had a greater effect. This week Apple said iTunes had broken 50m sales in Europe, with downloads far outstripping physical purchases of singles.Other fast-growing sites include Napster, which lets users download as many tracks as they like for a flat subscription fee, Playlouder MSP, Sony Connect and MyCokeMusic.However, some filesharing sites that purport to be legal aren't. The rule is that if the prices seem too good to be true, they are.While the industry blames filesharing for the decline in CD single sales, traffic across Kazaa, one of the most popular networks, has dropped by more than 50% since its peak in 2003.More than 237m albums were sold in the UK last year, a record figure driven by decreasing retail prices.In spite of fears that the leak of Coldplay's new album X&amp;Y over the internet would damage sales, the album shot straight to No 1, registering 460,000 sales in the first week, the second highest number on record.Case study: 'My knowledge of music is greater'Louis Harkell was fined for downloading music from Kazaa.The last email I expected from my parents while teaching in Thailand was one saying I'd been fined &#163;2,500 for downloading music from Kazaa. I had roughly 1,000 tunes which I had made available for upload. Uploading is what turned out to be the illegal action. Yet never does it say on Kazaa that what you are doing is illegal.Having broadband and Kazaa meant I had hundreds of thousands of tunes at my fingertips. I'd write a list of tunes I wanted, queue them up before I went to bed and have a whole new section of music in the morning. I totally re-educated myself musically. When you compare that to slogging about a music store to buy an album which costs &#163;12 and which has only two or three tracks on that you like, it's hard not to see why so many people do it.Yet I know that it is stealing. I am stealing from someone what they've rightfully earned and I only have to look at my mother, who sings and records jazz, to know that making music is a long, hard process.Yet, my knowledge of music is much greater and I have often bought an album by an artist I've discovered through Kazaa. Kazaa and other file-sharing devices may actually be the revival of small-time music producers.I certainly won't be downloading music again. I know my friends will be less sure too. I've been burnt badly. Yet this does not make me look kindly upon the music industry, who dominate the production of music, feeding us glammed-up dross and getting upset when people go looking for something different.
Shares in PartyGaming, the online poker business on the brink of a multibillion pound float, were last night said to have been more than three times oversubscribed. The company is due to float 21% of its shares on the stock market on Monday.A source close to the process said there were blue chip institutional investors placing orders for about 10% of the offer. "The majority of investors who have seen the roadshow have subscribed," the source said. "There is a good mix of UK and European institutions, though mostly UK firms. The order book is an A to Z of all the typical investors you would want to have for a float and for a FTSE 100 company."Another source close to PartyGaming confirmed the offer had already been oversubscribed.PartyGaming last week published an indicative price range of 111p to 127p and the book-building process has been dogged with speculation that the float price would have to be dropped because of investor fears about the legality of online poker in the US, where PartyGaming makes 90% of its revenues.Since Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein got the book-building roadshow under way, however, investor appetites are said to have grown rapidly.Meanwhile IG Index yesterday said there had been much activity in the grey market on PartyGaming shares, with the prevailing punter mood swinging overnight from bearish to bullish. IG's spread was 105p to 109p on Thursday night, but closed yesterday at 122p to 126p."This is the most interest in any IPO grey market since the last of the dotcom floats," said Jon Noble, a spokesman for IG. "Normally IPOs are quite dull for us - with this one there was all that speculation they wouldn't get it of the ground, then that picture appeared to change rapidly."Earlier this week analysts at Investec - until recently a corporate adviser to PartyGaming - lent their backing to the issue claiming it should be valued at more than 117p a share.
First Direct is bringing in a &pound;30-a-year "text tax" that will hit its current account customers who have registered to receive regular text messages about the state of their finances. It emerged this week that the phone and internet bank is to start charging customers &pound;2.50 a month if they want to continue receiving text alerts warning them they are about to go overdrawn or that their salary has just been paid in. At the moment these are free.First Direct's move is somewhat ironic when one bears in mind that "text message banking" is the whizzy new service that's actually supposed to help people save money. First Direct was the first UK bank to introduce a text message service back in 1999, and 450,000 customers have signed up.People can choose which kinds of messages they want. Some are texted if they are getting close to exceeding their overdraft limit, while others tell them large payments have gone into, or come out of, their accounts.The service also offers customers current balance and recent transaction texts. In February this year, the bank revealed it had just sent its 100 millionth text, and estimated it had helped save its current account-holders &pound;32m by alerting them that they were about to go into the red.It predicted text banking will soon be recognised as "the ultimate in convenience banking for people with better things to do".But a spokesman for First Direct - which has long been a favourite of Guardian readers - says the cost of sending texts has skyrocketed, so from September there will be a "modest" charge for regular texts.It will continue to provide a free weekly mini-statement for up to three accounts, but anyone who wants additional ones, or the other regular text updates, will have to pay the fee. However, customers who pay &pound;9.50 a month for its "firstdirectory" packaged account will still receive all texts free.The spokesman says some people receiving the full service may choose to just get the free texts.Justifying the new charge, he adds that the bank is now sending out millions of texts each month."No other bank has matched us in offering this service. The fact that other banks haven't followed suit indicates it is an expensive service to provide."First Direct's may be the most comprehensive but several other banks do offer free text message services.Lloyds TSB's personal banking customers can have account balance and recent transaction information texted to their phone once a week, at a time to suit them, though they have to register for internet banking first.Abbey's online bank Cahoot also offers a free text service where it will alert you, for example, when you are getting near to going in the red, or you have a deposit or debit of a certain amount. Barclays, meanwhile, is currently piloting a service.Talking of Barclays, the bank with the blue eagle logo is also making a customer-unfriendly change to its current account terms.It has a &pound;25 "buffer zone" before customers are hit with fees for exceeding their overdraft limit.But Barclays has just written to its eight million current account-holders to say that from July 15 this buffer is being reduced to just &pound;5 for all accounts except its student, graduate and platinum accounts.To slightly sweeten the pill, Barclays is making another change so that people will be permitted a one-off "lapse". From that date customers will get the first &pound;25 penalty fee refunded in any 12-month period in order "to assist customers who only very occasionally exceed their agreed limit or go overdrawn without an agreed limit".A Barclays spokesman acknowledges that this reduction means there will be "less flexibility to go over your overdraft limit," but says people get a lot of free benefits with a current account, and these cost money to offer.When it comes to buffer zones, First Direct scores highly - it provides customers with an automatic fee-free &pound;500 overdraft. So does internet bank Smile, while Cahoot gives customers a &pound;250 fee-free, interest-free overdraft.Barclays has also announced that, for its Cash Card basic bank account-holders, the time it takes for a cheque to clear is increasing from five to six working days. That means they will have to allow an extra day before they can withdraw their money.But there is some good news: Barclays is halving the "unpaid fees" on its Cash Card, student and graduate accounts from &pound;30 to &pound;15.These fees kick in if, for example, you go overdrawn and your cheques bounce.And yet more cutsJobs &amp; Money readers have emailed us with more examples of Alliance &amp; Leicester cutbacks following our article last Saturday which highlighted savings account cuts, fee increases and other changes at the bank.Several readers highlighted how, in April this year, A &amp; L told those running its "community" deposit accounts (often used by local non-profit groups) that monthly paper statements were being replaced with quarterly ones."The option of ringing a 0870 number to keep check of our account was offered as a method of 'keeping track of your funds at your convenience'," says one reader."One wonders what else is over the horizon," adds another.An A &amp; L spokesman says the change was made after it looked at the cost of offering free banking to all community account customers.Reducing the frequency of statements was viewed as a better option than charging for transactions, he adds.
Those planning to use their mobile phone while holidaying abroad over the next few months should brace themselves for a big bill upon their return.Although "roaming" charges - the cost of using a UK mobile phone in other countries - have come down substantially in recent years, they remain exorbitantly high.Those who have never taken a mobile abroad before should be aware that each of the networks imposes a charge to receive, as well as to make, voice calls. For those on pay-as-you-go tariffs, this can be as much as the cost of making the call yourself.For those on monthly contracts, Virgin - at 60p a minute - is the cheapest for people making calls in Europe. All the other providers charge upwards of 70p.Both Vodafone and Virgin charge 25p to send a text home, while T-mobile is the cheapest provider if you receive a call - at 70p a minute.Vodafone customers pay less if they use the company's preferred local supplier - if you plan to make some calls while away, it would be worth finding that provider before you travel. Vodafone also offers cheaper calls if you pay &pound;2.50 extra each month for your line rental.While the contract charges seem pretty outrageous, they are dwarfed by those levied on people with pay-as-you-go phones. Vodafone customers on the preferred network pay the lowest call costs in Europe. In both cases, Virgin was the cheapest for texts.Those wanting to stay in touch while abroad are better off texting. There is no charge to receive texts - so you could keep your phone off, then switch it on once a day to read and reply to any text messages that have arrived.
It is not just the multi-millionaires Chris Martin and Noel Gallagher who are affected by illegal downloads from the internet (Letters, June 22), but a multitude of lesser-known artists whose record sales mean they barely scrape an income. Avant garde, cult and esoteric artists are further impoverished by this mean-spirited form of theft. It also makes it increasingly difficult for them to continue to create and continue with their music. Such illegal downloading helps to further marginalise the non-mainstream arts, thus constricting creativity and promoting cultural conformity with mass tastes.While it may be that record companies are rapacious, brutal and ugly, it is also true that some of their arguments against illegal downloading are both legally, morally and aesthetically correct.Eric LongleyMedia division, Assets LtdWithout wishing to leap to the defence of the shameful BPI, in fairness to Noel Gallagher his attitude towards his band's music being downloaded for nothing has been much more benevolent. When asked in interviews, he has always replied that if people   can get it, they should go for it, because he would have done exactly the same as a teenager. Oasis's last three albums have leaked several weeks in advance of their release, being serially downloaded by fans and the band have always maintained that they simply do not care. This is in stark contrast to the likes of U2, who brought forward the release of their last album for fear of it being leaked.Neil RiddellLerwick, ShetlandNot all of those who depend on music royalties for their livelihood are as rich as Coldplay or Oasis, and even if they were, is stealing from the rich an acceptable philosophy to teach our children?Patrick RackowLondonSylvia Price is paying an unfair and heavy price for her daughter's music file-sharing and downloading habit (Mother faces music, June 21) - &#163;4,000 and the criminalisation of her daughter is a "bully-boy" response from a music industry caught napping by advancing technology. Every wave in that advance - from CDs to downloading - has been re sisted by an industry more interested in its own preservation than in serving the needs of consumers. The industry must take its share of responsibility for putting the brakes on the emergence of legal music downloading, which is now proving so popular.Four out of ten parents say they keep a check on their children's internet use. In future, more may need to do so. But greater willingness to embrace new technology and run with its implications for the future of music distribution could have avoided such expensive and pointless actions against consumers.Ed MayoNational Consumer CouncilJohn Harris is right to bemoan the decline in the quality of songwriting (Riddle of the bands, Friday Review, June 24): dullards such as Chris Martin are not fit to polish the plectrums of Andy Partridge or Morrissey. But the lack of wit among modern wordsmiths is as nothing compared to the dreck that passes as journalism in the music press. It's hard to believe that the banal, corporate dishrag that is today's NME was once home to the likes of Paul Morley, Ian Penman and Nick Kent. Perhaps Mr Harris ought to turn his attention to his own trade.Tim FootmanBangkok, ThailandAn interesting juxtaposition in last Saturday's paper: Mark Lawson remarks on a widespread "preference for actuality over imagination', while over the page Richard Mabey laments the relentless destruction of biodiversity. An expressive metaphor for another serious issue of our time - the marginalisation of art, and the possible extinction of the creative artist.Tony HaynesGrand Union Orchestra
Conker: Live &amp; ReloadedXboxOriginally released on Nintendo 64 as Conker's Bad Fur Day, this antidote to cute, fluffy platform games opens with Conker (a foul-mouthed, degenerate reprobate of a squirrel) staggering out of the pub and vomiting on his own shoes. This sets the tone for what is a wonderfully inventive and surprisingly dark take on a genre that's all too prone to saccharin-sweet cliches of the most contemptible variety. Incorporating sections lampooning films from Saving Private Ryan to Aliens, Conker is aimed squarely at grown-up gamers, with the Xbox remix adding sprawling split-screen and online deathmatch options, as if owners of Microsoft's first games console don't already enjoy an embarrassment of ways to simulate shooting up friends. Funny, unusual and rude, Conker: Live &amp; Reloaded is a splendidly tasteless mixture of platform-jumping and solid multi-player gunnery.&#183;Rare, &#163;40Destroy all humans!PS2, XboxIf you've been playing games for a while, the chances are the volume of alien invasions you've repelled (or repeatedly failed to repel) probably numbers in the thousands. THQ's new title neatly switches your role. Playing as Crypto, an especially unpleasant little green man with even more unsavoury bosses, your job is to soften up Earth for the coming invasion by laying waste to buildings and capturing human DNA via over-zealous anal probes. The resulting cow-hurling, head-exploding hilarity provides instant and deeply unusual gratification that only starts to wear off several hours later when missions get longer, harder and more frustrating.&#183;THQ, &#163;40Cold WinterPS2The games industry is growing up, and, like many adolescents, demonstrating this new maturity by swearing a lot. Cold Winter's ruthless ex-MI6 agent hero constantly reasserts the game's 18 certificate and curses like a slightly ill-at-ease trooper throughout. But underneath the profanity and blandly rendered environments there's a strong plot with competent voice-acting and a nicely weighty feel to the game's staggering arsenal of 30 weapons. Enemies are smarter than usual too, calling for back-up and overturning desks or beds for extra cover - they also explode in slightly gruesome ways. While no classic, this provides very viable escapism in both single- and multiplayer modes.&#183;VU Games, &#163;40
MondayObsession leads to tragedyTuesdaySummer solstice gamesInternational Games SummitWednesdayDamacy in the UKStudy says parents ignore age ratingsMicrochip inventor diesThursdayMartian mini-gameOnline SectionBook launch event to take place in Second LifeFridayEA takes the trainWin signed King of Fighters artwork!Mobile gamers quizzed again
SundayYes, we did have computers and email in 1988...Google wallet to rival PayPal, says WSJMondayLinux is "terrible", says OpenBSD manOne in five ditch newspapers for webTuesdayPodcast hack for iTunesLegal downloads on the riseWednesdayFeedback: Pod prods and cotton woolBram Cohen: Avalanche is merely a trickleThursdayMIT Media Lab is doing a social survey of bloggersPSP import row continuesBT rivals get inside local loopFridayAOL to enter portal wars - with free contentWhat are the most useful sites on the web?
BT chief executive Ben Verwaayen yesterday promised to draw a line under years of bitter disputes after regulator Ofcom forced the group to open its network fully to rivals but dropped a threat to refer it to the competition authorities.In order to escape the threat of being broken up, BT has agreed to a series of wide-ranging commitments to allow rival companies fair and equal access to the crucial last mile of telephone lines between the home and the exchange.These commitments, including a pledge to set up a new Access Services division that will be physically and culturally separate from the main BT operation, will for the first time be enforceable in court.Ofcom chief executive Stephen Carter said the regulator had looked closely at referring BT to the competition commission. But ultimately, he said, it decided on the compromise plan because a referral would have dragged out the uncertainty for another two and a half years, stymying investment and innovation in the process.Mr Carter said the regulator had forced BT to go much further in several key areas, including making the undertaking, published in full next week, enforceable in court.In a move he said was "unique in telecoms regulation anywhere around the world", Ofcom or any of BT's telecommunications rivals will be able to take BT to court to force it to comply with the terms of the agreement and seek compensation.Mr Verwaayen said he did not expect any dispute to end up in court as the company had every intention of complying with the agreement.About 30,000 employees, the majority of them engineers for BT's wholesale division, will transfer to the new Access Services unit, which will have its own branding and identity but remain part of BT plc. BT said the shift would be relatively inexpensive, costing "tens of millions".The unit will be overseen by a new Equality of Access board designed to ensure that it offers fair access to all. In a crucial change from BT's original proposals, Ofcom ruled that the board should have a majority of non-executive members, who will have to be approved by the regulator."We need to stop the moaning culture in the industry. It &#91;the new unit&#93; has agreed key performance indicators, agreed standards and an independent monitoring body that will report to our main board internally, and externally to Ofcom," said Mr Verwaayen.As part of the package of measures, BT also agreed to drop the rental price for its fully unbundled local loop product and the line rental price.In return, BT said that it hoped Ofcom would look seriously at deregulating areas where there was already sufficient competition, such as major corporate contracts and voice calls in big cities.Rivals, which have long complained that BT's wholesale division inevitably favours its own retail arm, gave the proposals a cautious welcome yesterday. "Ofcom has correctly identified equality of access as a key principle underpinning future regulation, and we hope it will drive substantial improvements in the way that BT treats us as customers," said Richard Sweet, head of regulation and interconnect at Thus. "However, Ofcom must be prepared to take firm and swift action if BT fails to deliver on its undertakings."A spokeswoman for Energis said the company remained in favour of a full break-up of BT's retail and wholesale arms but added: "We're optimistic that Ofcom has achieved a settlement that resolves important issues about the structure and incentives of BT."Analysts were also positive, contending that BT would benefit from the removal of the break-up threat and that the sector as a whole could invest with greater confidence. BT's shares rose 3.9% to 226p.
The quest to capture that ultra-casual mobile gaming demographic continues apace. I received press releases for two new quiz titles yesterday: Guiness World Records fromKayakand Who Wants To Be a Millionaire: Celebrity Edition byGlu. The former is of course packed with the sort of questions children used to ask Norris McWhirter on Record Breakers. It has several game modes, hidden bonuses and a series of interesting multiplayer modes where up to eight people can take part using a single phone. This is out now in the UK apparently, but I'm not sure where. Luckily Kayak's PR chap is Brian Baglow, a regular Gamesblog reader. He may well provide the answers in a comment...Meanwhile, the self-explanatory Who Wants To Be a Millionaire: Celebrity Edition follows the original and breathtakingly successful mobile translation of the hit TV show. Here you'll need to answer questions on such vital matters as the identity of Angelina Jolie's second husband and who's playing Tubbs in the new Miami Vice movie. I'll give you a hint, the answer to one of them is Jamie Foxx.
Following last week's "wikitorial" experiment by the Los Angeles Times allowing readers to rewrite its editorials on the net, this week's comment piece has been communally created by readers in an exciting online search for impartial and well-judged analysisSo Bush and Blair, your oil turns to blood for you, the Satan god-heads let Armenia earthquake be your warning (Leviticus 11,3) you will reap on the day of your bloodness judgment and twin towers (Zion money?) for Aids you have created with your so-called "scientists", your blood-dollars will be paid you in hell.Sorry, can we start this wiki-column again, this time without the nutter. And try to make sure the piece is pertinent and well-judged, with no axes to grind and no personal agendas.Come to the Kohi Noor Tandoori in Twyford. Try our chicken patia and pilau rice. "My favourite curry house!" says TV's Carol Vorderman.Oh and no advertising either! The piece is supposed to be about the concept of the "wikitorial".This week, the Los Angeles Times attempted to allow readers to rewrite its editorial over the internet. The notion comes from the online encyclopedia Wikipedia, which can be written by whoever wishes to contribute articles or amendments &#91;this is more like it&#93;.But the paper's courageous idea was fundamentally flawed, not because democratic debate can never produce universal consensus &#91;this is good stuff&#93;, but because the hell-born Prince Charles who murder Lady Di for oil will face Lucifer as Prophets foretold when flood and fire consume Zionist assassins of Bhopal (Isaiah 12, 4) for USA death-heads knew but kill when Bush father CIA tell them for their blood-dollars.Oh no, he's back, look can't we block certain bloggers from accessing the computer or something? OK, so the "wiki" concept of constantly evolving prose may sound democratic in principal, but can it often mean that what appears to be an authoritative consensus is simply the mindset of the last person to have accessed the article. Furthermore, the BBC really ought to get that Noel Edmonds back on screen, he was great with his Mr Blobby and his brightly coloured sweaters, that was proper family entertainment not like all this reality TV rubbish.Furthermore, the value of the evolving online encyclopedia is obvious when it is providing facts, but opinion and comment must always be subjective, and so comment pieces such as this one will never have the freedom to advocate provocative opinions without another contributor deleting or contradicting it. Yes they will. No they won't. Yes they will. Won't. RU up 4 sx? Is there really no way of controlling this?Our tandoori curries are cooked in the traditional style, we have Indian lager and Carlsberg. Is this the Destiny's Child weblog? No, it is a communally written comment piece on the concept of wikitorials. Is it true they're splitting up? I got a text from my mate.Let's start again. Last week's experiment by the Los Angeles Times was abandoned after the quality rapidly descended. At 9am on the Saturday, a carefully considered 1,000-word analysis entitled "War and Consequences" was wiped and simply replaced with a more concise analysis: "The Bush administration should be charged for war crimes and crimes against humanity." A few hours later, the editorial simply said "Fuck USA" and the final self-appointed leader writer did away with words altogether, replacing them with explicit images.So can there be a future for mature and considered "wiki" comment? Well I reckon Beyonc&#233; will be bigger than ever. Noel's House Party or Multi-coloured Swapshop, they could bring back either of them. Or both, I've got time. Why not try our tandoori buffet? Look, my point is there are quite enough narcissistic diarists, paranoid schizophrenics and tiresome conspiracy theorists on the web without lending them the unearned authority of a world-class newspaper.The purpose of leader writers is to lead opinion, not to relay the view of the last person to shout the loudest. Let that be the final word on the subject. But Pentagon bloodheads you will not conquer (Deuteronomy 3,1); your weapons to drug dictators for mind-sleep suits Bush/Blair Satan-plot (Noriega) but Challenger disaster (foretold) prove judgment day now upon you the devilry of US computer mind-virus. Actually, I've read nuttier stuff on these pages.This wiki-column experiment has now been terminated. Thanks to the thousands of registered users who attempted to contribute to an interesting column free of cliche. It's just a shame that a small minority had to spoil it for everyone elsecomment@guardian.co.uk
Just before Christmas last year, we took a trip around the web - and around some of the Guardian's writers - to find out what sites they recommended. The result wasour list of the 100 most useful sites.Well, now it's six months later - that's about approximately a squillion years on the internet - and we're looking to update and refresh the list to keep it up to date.And we're asking for your help. Leave a comment with your recommendations (while self-promotion is expected, it's not really desired).
Tough Jobs: Apple boss astounded by reader comments. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesBack at the start of the week, we celebrated the wise words ofSteve Jobswith a competition to find the best piece of technological advice.But who was the winner?Thanks to everybody for their entries, but the winner has to be Geraldo, who told us the tale of this little pearl of wisdom:"Fix the things that are fucked. Don't fuck the things that are fixed!"Not only was it good, succinct advice that could be carried across a number of different areas of life, but - perhaps more importantly - it was also sufficiently sweary.A copy of Andy Hertzfeld's history of the Macintosh,Revolution in the Valley, will be winging its way to him shortly.
"The walls guarding America Online's proprietary content quietly started to crumble this week as the company placed most of its news, sports, chats and other features on the open Internet. That's the culmination of AOL's 18-month-old plan to vie head-on with Google, Yahoo and Microsoft as an advertising-driven Web portal. The new strategy is a bid to offset the loss of millions of subscribers," saysUSA Today."Miller concedes that the change could accelerate subscriber losses. But he says few members cite content as a drawing card. And key features, such as AOL email addresses and parental controls, will still be available to subscribers only."
"Fantasies about chatting up legendary figures have come closer to reality in Japan where researchers have developed a mannequin with a built-in projector that can resemble a face of one's choice," reportsAFP.The life-size, made-to-order "Chatty" is a mannequin with a face that is an empty screen until turned on to play DVD images from inside the body. If one is in the mood for conversation, sound can come from a separate speaker.Company president Jun Ishikawa said he wanted to produce historical figures such as ancient Egyptian queen Cleopatra.
Thanks to SNK Playmore, we've acquired three gorgeous King of Fighters prints signed by legendary manga artist Falcoon, responsible for much of SNKs videogame cover art. Instead of keeping them like sensible adults, we're giving them away. Head to thecompetition page, answer the simple question and they could be yours. A runner up will receive a set of limited edition King of Fighters badges.Prove your hardcore gaming credentials and be the envy of your peers!
Not content with dominating the world of the sports simulation, EA is moving on to train sims. In the least foreseeable move since that time George Weah signed for Manchester City, the mega publisher will release Rail Simulator (a working title - this being EA, they're probably going for some kind of license) on PC. The press release breathlessly explains all:"Rail Simulator will offer the opportunity for players to take charge of steam, diesel and electric trains on real routes in the UK and Germany. Challenging and fun gameplay will even enable players to design their own ideal journey routes."Development is in the experienced hands of Kuju Entertainment, previously responsible for Microsoft Train Simulator, which sold a million copies and apparently inspired over 40 third-party developed expansion packs.There is already adedicated websitewhere you can download a lovely wallpaper of a man on a station platform impatiently looking at his watch  well it's realistic then. I especially like the bit on the home page where it says, "for everyone from the casual train fan to the dedicated enthusiast." What exactly constitutes a casual train fan? Someone who just gets the train once in a while? Perhaps absent-mindedly notes the number? Maybe feels a frisson of excitement when a Pullman coach passes by? I don't know.It's due in 2006. You can add your own delay jokes.
BT's agreement with Ofcom yesterday to hive off its retail activities, employing 30,000 people, into a separate company is good news for consumers. It could pave the way for a price war in the provision of new services, such as television through broadband access to the internet. It is good for BT because it lifts the threat of being broken up from its share price and good for its competitors, which can now rent space in local BT exchanges and do their own thing.Broadband is already on a big roll. Between 50,000 and 60,000 new subscribers a week are signing up, making it (along with Freeview digital television) the fastest-growing consumer product in recent memory. As competition hots up and technological advances enable more and more services - such as multi-channel television and video on demand - to be sent down ancient copper wires, the scene is set for another media revolution. And if experiences abroad are any guide - as in France where high-speed internet access with 200 TV channels and free phone calls can be had for under &#163;20 a month - prices are still on a downward trajectory. This is good for helping to bridge the digital divide, though there is still a long way to go. Despite the recent explosion of demand, barely more than 25% of households have broadband access, even though over 95% of them will be able to get it if they want to by the end of July.The big puzzle is why it has taken BT - which has been talking about delivering entertainment to the home for 25 years - so long to get to the present position where it is  about to offer it, long after rivals such as HomeChoice in the UK and Illiad in France have. The answer is that for years BT failed to understand the full importance of the internet and instead tried to protect the cash cow arising from its monopoly control of the final loop from the telephone exchange to the home. Now that link has been at last been broken and, under more enlightened management, BT is now fully entering the real world of providing innovative products in competition with others. The consumer can only win.
The telecommunications giant BT today staved off a break-up by agreeing to open its fixed line network to rivals through a new BT division.The former monopoly said it had agreed with the telecoms regulator Ofcom to guarantee rivals equal access to its local network. Ofcom said the deal would help drive down the price of calls, connections and services for consumers and businesses.As part of the agreement with Ofcom, BT will set up a new Access Services unit to provide rivals with transparent and equal access to its nationwide local network on the same terms as those enjoyed by its own BT Retail consumer arm."We have a very clear set of arrangements now in the settlement and I think this is good news for everybody," said Ben Verwaayen, BT's chief executive.The news sent BT shares to their highest level in nearly three years. The stock was up 3.8% at 225.75p in lunchtime trading, the biggest gainer in the FTSE-100.BT's rivals have long accused BT Retail of getting preferential treatment from the group's network-owning wholesale arm and have urged Ofcom to force BT to end such favouritism. Ofcom said it could take BT to the high court if the compnay breached the agreement, with BT's board of directors held legally accountable.Ofcom, which launched its review last year, said BT's undertakings would spare it from being referred to the competition commission, a move that could have led to the break-up of the company into wholesale and retail businesses.BT's rivals welcomed the agreement, which largely follow BT's proposals in February."The personal legal accountability of each and every BT board member is both welcome and highly significant," the Cable &amp; Wireless chief executive, Francesco Caio, said."We ... support Ofcom's decision not to make an Enterprise Act reference (referral to the competition commission), which would have caused further uncertainty and disruption," said Richard Sweet, head of regulation at alternative network operator Thus.BT's Access Services would be highly regulated, with its performance monitored and reported on by a board consisting mostly of independent members and led by one of its independent non-executive directors.The unit, to account for about 20% of BT's revenues, would have its own headquarters, distinct brand and around 30,000 staff with separate bonus schemes and incentives.The division, BT's fourth alongside BT Retail, BT Wholesale and BT Global Services, would own the local loop - the copper wires that run between telephone exchanges and households - which rivals need to access for their own services.BT said it would cut the rental charge for its local loop to 80 a year from 105, a move that should provide an incentive for operators to roll out broadband services in remote areas.
The arguments over the future of BT, and its ownership of the local telephone network - vital real estate for internet and telephony providers - came to something of a head today. As wereport:The former monopoly said it had agreed with the telecoms regulator Ofcom to guarantee rivals equal access to its local network. Ofcom said the deal would help drive down the price of calls, connections and services for consumers and businesses.As part of the agreement with Ofcom, BT will set up a new Access Services unit to provide rivals with transparent and equal access to its nationwide local network on the same terms as those enjoyed by its own BT Retail consumer arm.I'll admit I'm a little sceptical as to whether Access Services will open up the network as much as it needs - after all, it will still be under the BT umbrella - but it's a step in the right direction.On a side note, I saw an advert from the Post Office offering phone services the other night. Things come full circle...
Grey station: Sony wants to stop pre-launch imports of PSP. Photograph: Donna McWilliam/APToday'scoverageof Sony's attempt to stop grey importing of PSPs has thrown up a couple of interesting points. A copy of the writ which Sony has issued against grey importers, which I saw earlier this week, made reading. The company is demanding details of every customer who has bought an imported PSP, and every supplier who sold one to importers. This morning Sonyrefutedclaims that they might look to impound grey PSPs - but wouldn't tell me what they wanted to do with customer details... An aside to this whole story is the question "does Sony own the PSP trademark in Europe?". My research, which Sony refused to comment publicly on, showed that although they have applied to register the PSP and UMD trademarks - as long ago as 2003 - they stilldo not ownthe registered trademark rights in Europe. This doesn't change their legal action (which actually concerns the "PlayStation" trademark), but it does muddy the waters of their public statement, which states that "Sony Computer Entertainment holds all relevant trademark rights for PSP and UMD, and is confident of its trademark position."
Point of no returnThe real killer for Apple's iconic iPod will not come from other manufacturers, but from Apple itself (Not so safe and sound, June 16). Agreed. Surprisingly, what people fail to mention about the iPod is how remarkably unreliable it is, how often it locks up so you have to reset it to get it to work again; how many times you have to reinstall its operating system; or how often it is simply not recognised when you connect it to a PC. Apple's internet service pages had dozens of help pages explaining how to unfreeze your iPod, but even then you find yourself sending it back for repair as your only course of action.Perusing iPod bulletin boards and forums gains little help, other than glowing comments of how good Apple's return/replacement service is. On a three-month-old gadget, regardless of who made it or how much it costs, you should never have to know how good the repair service is.Dean DracknellMedstead, HampshireNot the end-allEvery fortnight or so you talk of the end of the iPod. It seems every new portable that comes on the market gets the "iPod killer" treatment. You talk of the Zen Micro's interface, but it took them four years to get close to Apple's iPod. I for one don't need a cameraphone/MP3 player in much the same way I don't need a combined fridge/kettle/TV that talks to my microwave. As for battery life, who cares? Charge the thing, it's really easy.Frank CooksonLocal learningIt's not just in the United States that universities are taking advantage of the popularity of iPods and their close kin (Second Sight, June 16). Physics lecturers at the University of Wales, Aberystwyth, have been podcasting lectures since last September - recording and encoding lectures as they are delivered using iRiver media players and uploading the results to internal servers.The results have proved very popular with students, who have told us that they have used the recordings to revisit lecture material while cooking, travelling or even during their morning run. There has been no drop in lecture attendance since we introduced the podcasts. They seem to be seen as additional support rather than a replacement for lectures. What is being done by US institutes using MP3 versions of texts and course information is interesting (and worth investigation) - but we can produce cutting-edge innovations in the use of this technology on this side of the Atlantic, too.Andy BreenUniversity of Wales, AberystwythHome improvementThat frighteningly complex e-conveyancing system (Bank on selling the house, June 16) might be merely fiddling hopefully with, rather than replacing, the peculiar and painful English chain of simultaneous transactions. Isn't there a crying opportunity for government, central or local - or imaginative commerce - to foster stockholding (or jobbing) outfits to operate quickly with less complication than that "chain matrix"?Dan LevettLondonAll writeWhile I am aware that burning, flogging and spitting laconic invective at Bob Geldof is de rigueur, Michael Cross (Column, June 16) is too quick to raise his dishevelled effigy to the stake in suggesting that the Live8 tickets mobile texting system excluded the blind and partially sighted.Perhaps he might like to "gently point out" to the RNIB the two little dots on the "5" button of most mobiles, or the possibility of getting a friend to text for them.Jay ForsythOxfordRun through itRoger Kidley suggests that Rosetta designed to run Mac software on Pentium chips "sounds suspiciously like an interpreter" and so it does (Feedback, June 16). But why, if it is possible to produce software like this (or SoftPC) that does the recompilation while programs are running, is it not possible to produce software that genuinely recompiles, so you can feed in a Mac PowerPC program and convert it to Intel/Mac, Windows or Unix that then runs separately?Is there really a technical problem, or is it a matter of marketing?Phil McShaneOxfordBlogbackThe description of the e-conveyancing matrix (Bank on selling the house, June 16) - the best of the bunch - is of a much improved system that will take a lot of the insanity out of the final stages of buying or selling. All we need now is something that can disarm the gazunderer or gazumper. After all, it'll take more than a network to stop some people behaving like shits in the days leading to exchange.theratandmouse.co.ukI can't believe the combined landline/mobile phone (What's new, June 16) has just got to England! My German cousin told me she had this in Berlin about three years ago.virtualhana.blogspot.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
The curious thing about watching the web is that it is best done by email. The problem is obvious enough: the web is too big for one person to watch. However, there are hundreds of individuals who are watching their particular corner - the bit that interests them - and writing newsletters or weblogs about it. The secret of web-watching is to find people with the expertise you need and tap into it.Of course, times have changed, and are changing still. When Online began the Web watch column 11 years ago, it was called Net watch, because there wasn't much of a web to watch. Netwatch included coverage of mailing lists, FTP file transfer sites and things that have more or less disappeared, such as Gopher servers.So where do you go to find the new sites you seek?&#183;In the early days, there were two great sources of information. The first was a newsletter called Net-happenings, run by one of the heroes of the popular internet, Gleason Sackmann, from Fargo, North Dakota. Never heard of him? In 1996, he came 10th on Newsweek magazine's List of 50 People Who Matter.The other great source, which started to emerge a year later in February 1994, was Jerry and David's Guide to the World Wide Web, which became Yahoo. This provided lists of all the new websites added daily. It soon became too big to read, and resulted in Yahoo Picks. Yahoo's daily picks of the best new sites, circulated in a weekly newsletter, turned many a small developer into a star.http://picks.yahoo.com&#183;The American paper USA Today did the same sort of thing in its Hot Sites column, which has been running since at least 1996, and is still going strong. There are many similar offerings, including Good Housekeeping's Site of the Day.www.usatoday.com/tech/webguide/front.htmwww.gh-siteoftheday.com&#183;Gleason Sackmann retired, and after that, Net-happenings was never quite the same. However, two newsletters still carry on the old tradition. One is the closely related Internet Scout Report, which appears weekly, and has a strong educational bent. The other is the famous Internet Tourbus, which Patrick Crispen and Bob Rankin have been driving around, visiting interesting sites, since 1995. I still subscribe to both, though it must be admitted that neither is focused on things that are actually new. Netsurfer Digest would have been a challenger, but its publishers decided to charge $20 a year for it.http://scout.wisc.edu/Reports/ScoutReport/Current/www.tourbus.comwww.netsurf.com/nsd/&#183;Today, of course, the web is too large and too various for any newsletter or newspaper to cover in any sort of depth. The one area that's an exception is search, because almost every internet user depends on search engines to find things. I always try to include at least one new search engine, or new feature, in every Web watch. Of course, it is also where fortunes are being made.The most informative site is Danny Sullivan's Search Engine Watch, and  I get its twice-monthly newsletter, Search Engine Update. It also has a daily newsletter, Searchday, and a monthly one, Search Engine Report. However, anyone with a professional interest probably reads the SEW blog instead.http://blog.searchenginewatch.com&#183;Search Engine Watch's news editor and regular blog poster is a librarian called Gary Price, who runs a separate site called ResourceShelf, which also has a newsletter. Another source of useful information is Tara Calishain, who has run the ResearchBuzz website and newsletter since 1998, and has also been a guest contributor to Web watch.www.resourceshelf.comwww.researchbuzz.com&#183;Nowadays, however, many search engines are publishing their own blogs. Google, Yahoo, MSN Search and Ask Jeeves all have decent blogs. Naturally, these are paralleled by non-official blogs, of which Inside Google is perhaps the most useful. There are also hundreds of blogs about more general subjects, and Ken Leebow's Blogging about Incredible Blogs is often worth a look to find interesting ones. (Leebow used to run Leebow's Friday Letter - Sites, Sounds, and Happenings on the Net, but I don't think that's still going.)http://googleblog.blogspot.comwww.ysearchblog.comhttp://blogs.msdn.com/msnsearch/http://blog.ask.comhttp://google.blognewschannel.comhttp://bloggingaboutblogs.blogspot.com&#183;Scan all of these - or subscribe to their RSS feeds - and you will know quite a lot about what is happening on the net. Unfortunately, you won't be able to write your own Web watch, unless you can also hack my mailbox. That's because many new sites are announced in press releases, if they are from proper businesses, or in private emails - basically people saying "Please have a look at my site."There are alternative sources of press releases, such as Business Wire (also available via Yahoo) and PR Newswire, but the volume of releases is so large it's almost impossible to find anything useful. The one that's worth visiting for web watchers is Eric Ward's URL Wire. This carries press releases about new websites, but only in very small numbers. (Although Ward charges a fee, he won't announce sites he thinks are rubbish.) Recent URL Wire hits include Governor Schwarzenegger's physical fitness site (www.activeca.org), intended to whip Californians into shape, andFreeDownloadADay.com, for people who can't resist free software.www.businesswire.comhttp://biz.yahoo.com/bw/www.prnewswire.comwww.urlwire.com/headlines/&#183;But sad to say, two of my favourite stomping grounds have long since vanished, never to be replaced. If ever you wanted to end with a funny "and finally" item, there was no better source than Cathie Walker's Centre for the Easily Amused (www.amused.com), which survived until at least March 2001. She now doesSillyGirl.com. Also irresistible was Mirsky's Worst of the Web (http://mirsky.com/wow/), which closed in November 1996 when he lost his free server. But it certainly wasn't from a shortage of material ...&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
THQ has created aDestory All Humans mini-gameto publicise the Xbox and PS2 release of its well-received comedy adventure. You just have to fly your saucer over a town stunning people and then sucking them up with your tractor beam. Get in the top five highscore table and you apparently receive a copy of the game. Why aren't more releases preceded by throwaway internet mini-games?
"This is a general social survey of weblog authors being conducted at the MIT Media Laboratory. For more information about the survey, please read the detailed description," it sayshere.Enter your email address and you get a key that allows you to log in to the survey.
Lots of gaming goodness in theOnlinesection this week. The main story is Natalie Hanman'slookat women in the industry and how things need to improve. Then there is Bobbie Johnson'sreporton Sony Europe's legal battle with some small British companies over imported PSP's. But remember - the delay isfor your own good. Ahem. Finally we have this week'sreviews. I've looked at GTA San Andreas on the Xbox - a cracking game, obviously, but one that really doesn't use the extra graphical power of Microsoft's console. Mike Anderiesz reviews Scar - the bizarre car RPG. Last up is Big Mutha Truckers 2 - a budget game that appears to hold its own. Rubbish name though.
The electronics giant Sony this morning denied it was seeking to reclaim imported PlayStation Portables (PSPs) from British consumers despite having issued legal action against companies that have been bringing the hotly anticipated gadget into the country ahead of its British launch in September."We are not seeking any sort of legal recourse against people who have already bought PSPs on import - only against those companies that continue to sell them," said a spokesman.None the less, according to a writ seen by the Guardian earlier this week, as well as the immediate cessation of sales Sony is demanding details of customers who have bought imported machines.The PSP, a handheld games machine that can also play films and music, has been trumpeted as this year's must-have gadget, but Sony is attempting to crack down on so-called grey imports into the British market.The corporation will go to the high court on Monday in the hope of securing an injunction against importers.Grey imports are common in the games industry, with dedicated fans prepared to pay above the usual retail price to get hold of new technology from around the world.Despite the strength and importance of the UK's games industry, Britain is traditionally one of the last markets where new consoles are released. By the time the PSP hits British high streets this autumn it will already have been on sale outside the EU for nine months.Sony confirmed that it had asked for details of those consumers who have already bought PSPs but it would not confirm what it wanted them for, saying only that it did not intend to reclaim machines that had already been sold.
Natalie Hanman has written a great article in today'sOnlineabout the forthcoming drive to encourage women into the IT and games sector in order to bridge the skills gap and address the serious gender disparity in the hi-tech workforce. From the article:Last week, the government finally woke up to this gender divide: the Department for Education and Skills released 8.4m to tackle the shockingly low proportion of women working in IT. The money will provide computer clubs for 10 to 14-year-old girls in an attempt to redress the imbalance in earlier education choices, which no doubt affects higher education and job decisions, too.Wouldn't that be dandy? Furthermore, she saysthe industry must surely soon acknowledge that more female developers means more female gamers, and therefore more gamers overall - which increases revenue for gaming companies.More gamers equals more games makers equals a greater diversity in games. Simple.Her article echoes recent research byMarketwatch(via Kotaku) which indicates that the diversity "issue" needs to be tackled on a global scale.For gamesblog's coverage of women and games, check out the women and games categoryindex.For the terminally interested, theWomen in Games Conferenceis coming up in Dundee, Scotland between 8-10 August.Also, check out ELSPA'sChicks and Joysticks: An examination of women and gamingWhite Paper, released last September.
Having a coffee and cake with Jakob Nielsen, the web usability expert fromNielsen Norman Group, I asked him what was holding up progress on the web. "Three things, really: I call them lazy, stupid and evil design," he replies."Evil design is where they stop you from doing what you are trying to do, like putting an advert over the top of the page. That's the wrong way to do it. Google has made billions by putting the ads where people do want them, rather than where they don't want them."Evil design is perpetrated by people who are deliberately doing the wrong thing, and this harms everyone. Nielsen cites pop-up windows as an example. Users now expect pop-ups to be unwanted ads, and close them without looking at them. As a result, good designers can no longer use pop-up windows even when they would be a good solution."We now have to say: 'Don't put your help text in a pop-up window.' It's ruined it for everybody," he adds."Stupid design is where companies are doing things that are known not to work. We now have 12 years documented experience that certain things work and certain things do not work," says Nielsen, "and companies are still doing things that do not work."One example is the Flash intro. "Almost everybody knows that doesn't work, but every so often, a new website comes along and makes that mistake. That's stupid."The solution is education. "We have to make it even more well known," he grins."Lazy design is where people just don't bother," says Nielsen. "That's actually quite common."One example is the search facilities found on websites: "it's amazing how often they barely work," he says. Search is complicated, and even if sites buy search software, it has to be installed and tweaked to work correctly. Many companies just can't be bothered.Putting up PDF files is another example: "it's the lazy way out," says Nielsen.The answer to lazy design is often to convince the people who control the budgets that it is worth producing material specifically for the web, just as they do for print media, radio and television.Still, at least Nielsen thinks we are making progress. This month, he has celebrated 10 years of giving free advice in his bi-weeklyAlertboxcolumn on web usability, and hisTop Ten Mistakes of Web Designpiece has now reached more than two million readers.Ten years ago, Nielsen writes, "web people didn't care about usability, and usability people didn't care about the web. After years of incessantly promoting user research findings for websites and intranets, the situation has changed: thousands of people now work on online usability. Nielsen Norman Group alone has trained 11,208 people and, given that many other places teach usability as well, the worldwide total is no doubt much larger."Unfortunately, even 20,000 designers may not have much impact on 20bn web pages - they'd have to design a million each. But they can set a good example, and that's a start.LinksAlertboxwww.useit.com/alertbox/Top Ten Mistakes in Web Designwww.useit.com/alertbox/9605.htmlNielsen Norman Groupwww.nngroup.com
Don't try to book a night at the Royal Accord Hotel, Dubai. Despite its flashy website, the hotel doesn't exist. Neither does the Asia Retreat, the Den Helder Duik salvage company or Jamie Kane, the pop star who apparently died in a helicopter crash the other day.They are all creations of the BBC in the corporation's biggest investment in interactive fiction. "It's a risk," admits Sophie Walpole, head of interactive drama and entertainment. "But we think it's one worth taking."The BBC's online strategy over the past five years can be roughly drawn into two eras - before and after Philip Graf's independent review of the BBC's practices, conducted on behalf of the government, and published in May last year.As a result of his investigations, out went online fantasy football, soap opera coverage and surfing stories. Instead, the corporation must work to "produce innovative, diverse, and creative online content, setting industry standards", says the report.Although work onJamie Kanebegan shortly before the report was published, the interactive game is a good example of what Graf was talking about. Developed with independent studios Preloaded and Creative Virtual (working more with outside contractors was another Graf recommendation), it is a complex online-only fiction aimed at 14 to 18-year-old girls.Through various clues and  puzzles, the viewer/player talks with fictional characters and helps them unravel a plot of death, deception and boy bands. It took more than 10 months to create, and the cost was more than &pound;250,000."We tested it on hundreds of teenagers," says Phil Stewart, art director at Preloaded, who created the visuals. "It was a really steep learning curve for us, trying to create for such an undervalued demographic. Because it's the BBC, it has to be for everyone, not just those who are good with computers. It has to be accessible on every connection, there were words we couldn't use, and  we couldn't be seen to have the user do anything illegal, like hacking."Rob Cooper, the BBC's senior producer on the project, says: "The games industry doesn't need input from the public service sector. But we're trying to do something ground-breaking for a demographic that hasn't been served by the commercial sector."The story was written by Matt Beaumont who wrote the novel e, which was made up of emails exchanged in an advertising agency. Jamie Kane uses a string of non-traditional storytelling methods, such as online chat with computer-controlled characters, fake weblogs, message boards, email accounts, fake airline computer systems, code breaking and even real telephone calls containing recorded messages.There are entries about the fictional characters hidden in real BBC websites, fictional interviews with Radio 1 presenters, and the team even recorded three albums worth of music for popstar Jamie  and his former band, Boy*d Upp, which will be downloadable as  MP3s from his "official" sitewww.jamiekane.co.uk. The fictional popstar himself is played by an understudy in the Queen musical We Will Rock You.The game can be started any time and lasts 15 days, with daily tasks taking up to 20 minutes. Once it begins, disclaimers are hidden to make everything seem as real as possible.It is not a new concept online, and neither is it new for the BBC. In 1992, its hoax documentary-drama Ghostwatch sparked controversy for appearing too realistic. Particularly given its target audience, the creators of Jamie Kane have been careful not to create anything that could genuinely scare players.Instead, a sense of fear is more likely to come from those within the corporation. The launch is two months later than planned, and the possibility of licensing the game to other markets is on hold, pending its success. As a creation unconnected to any existing BBC character or series, the audience for Jamie Kane is far from assured; previous players of games connected to BBC series Spooks and Attachments "numbered only in the hundreds", according to Walpole."But this is about telling stories in new ways, to teenagers who don't remember life without the internet," she says. "Although we will be doing publicity, I'm hoping it will go viral. More than 1m teenagers visit BBC Online a month, and I'm aiming for in excess of 100,000 players in the first year. It could be just the start of new interactive fiction by the BBC."Links:www.bbc.co.uk/jamiekane&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Cassandra Neal began playing computer games when she was just five years old, after her father brought home from work a computer with Pinball on it. Yet years later, when the time came to decide on a university subject, the idea of studying the games she had grown up playing didn't even enter her mind.Instead, unsure of what to do with her maths, chemistry and general studies A levels, Neal took a job as an estate agent - which didn't last long. Her father suggested accountancy, but while researching higher education courses, Neal stumbled across a digital entertainment degree at the University of Derby with, in retrospect, perfect timing. About to enter the third year, Neal, 23, is thrilled with her decision. "It was nothing like I had ever considered doing, and I'm so glad I got into it," she says. "It is the most fantastic environment - everyone you meet is so friendly and has the same interests &#91;as you&#93;."But Neal is a minority: she is just one of two females on the course. With women on the gaming sidelines in play and employment - they account for only 27.2% of all active gamers in the UK, and make up just 17% of the games industry workforce - the gender skew in higher education isn't helping matters.Last week, the government finally woke up to this gender divide: the Department for Education and Skills released &pound;8.4m to tackle the shockingly low proportion of women working in IT. The money will provide computer clubs for 10 to 14-year-old girls in an attempt to redress the imbalance in earlier education choices, which no doubt affects higher education and job decisions, too.According to the Fawcett Society, an organisation campaigning for gender equality, only 22% of A level computing candidates are female, compared with 95% of home economics candidates. "Choice is an important issue for girls and women in &#91;education&#93;," it says. "Although there is now a wider choice of subjects open to pupils, they still continue to follow gender-stereotyped paths, limiting their future options."As Neal says, she had no idea at school that IT degrees were available. "One of my regrets is that when it came to doing a degree, it never occurred to me to do something interesting. I'd never heard of programming - and if I had, I wouldn't have thought I'd be good enough to do it."The Department for Trade and Industry (DTI) has found that traditional gender divisions at school increase in higher education subject choices, where women account for just 20% of computer science undergraduates. The DTI attributes this to male-dominated academic departments; women's lack of confidence in their skills; experiences at school (reports suggest teaching styles in technology classes dissuade many women from continuing them); and perceived gender differences in graduate employment opportunities.The reality supports these theories. While women tend to approach employment in gaming from an animation or art and design background they are, according to the Equal Opportunities Commission, "more strongly represented in lower-level occupations than in higher-status and higher-paid ones, reflecting the extent of vertical gender segregation in the &#91;IT&#93; sector".Chicks and Joysticks, a white paper commissioned by the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (Elspa), says "female UK games professionals progress more slowly through the company ranks" than men.Yet the industry must surely soon acknowledge that more female developers means more female gamers, and therefore more gamers overall - which increases revenue for gaming companies.The development team of the Sims Online game, for example, was 40% female, while 60% of its players are female. The contemporary life-simulation setting has attracted a non-traditional (ie female) audience in a way no other game has, says the Elspa report. Jessica Lewis, producer of The Sims Online, has said: "I think simply because more women are involved in the designs and development, a different kind of contribution happens. Diversity ... is a good thing when making a mainstream game."Neal's year-long experience of the IT sector saw prejudices give way to progression. At first, she found the all-male environment of the games testing company intimidating, but "when I left my placement, the managing director told me the men had acted stunned when told he'd hired a woman. They were sure I wouldn't have similar interests or take the work seriously ... &#91;But&#93; this wore off completely after about a week."Mark Eyles, who worked in gaming for more than 20 years before becoming a senior lecturer in computer games at the University of Portsmouth, sees it as a catch-22. "When I was working in the games industry, we were always very happy to employ women but we just didn't get them applying for jobs," he says. "Now that I'm running a course specifically aimed at getting students into this industry, I'm very keen to attract as many women as possible." But it isn't working: in the course's first year, Eyles only enrolled three women compared to about 50 men.Andrew Williams, course director of the games software development degree at the University of Bolton, tells a similar story: only four female students in the three-year history of his course. "The industry now realises it would benefit from having female games developers, and yet not much is happening to rectify this situation," he says."I remember doing a talk for about 25 teenage schoolgirls. I asked them how many played games and all but two raised their hands. I asked them how many wanted to work in the industry and none were really interested. I asked them why not, and the general answer was that they didn't know they could develop games for a living."Similarly, many female gamers did not think they would enjoy playing computer games until they tried it. Now Massively Multiplayer Online Games (MMOGs) such as EverQuest support female majorities of up to 60%, and women are the No 1 players of mobile games and online simple-format games.Mobile phone games company I-play recently rebranded itself to become more consumer friendly after recognising that women are the future of the mobile gaming market. Their research shows that one-thumb and casual games are especially popular with women, who play mobile games more often and for longer periods than men.Next month, I-play is launching Jewel Quest as a mobile game in the UK. In Europe, 80% of its 5m players are female. Judi Spiers, I-play external producer, says: "I've been a mentor for women wanting to enter the games industry and one of the main barriers I've experienced is making it more appealing to women, and making them more aware of the many opportunities out there. Women are sometimes put off by the geeky side of gaming but this is changing and mobile is going some way to help this."Mobile gaming should, therefore, begin to break down the stereotype that young boys are the only ones with their finger on the button. Maybe then the advertising deadlock will disintegrate, too - for, just as most games marketing tends to be in men's magazines, so the University of Derby said it only advertised its new Microsoft-backed computer games degree, which failed to attract a single woman, in specialist gaming titles Edge and Games TM. John Sear, a course lecturer, says: "There's no obvious place &#91;where we could advertise to attract women&#93;."But Diane Carr, Eduserv research fellow at the Institute of Education, who is examining the link betweengaming and learning, says: "There's something quite disingenuous about placing an ad in specialist press and then wondering why you get no &#91;female&#93; applicants." Indeed, Carr tells a typical story of a female student who had to buy a gaming magazine for an assignment: "One girl said that when she bought Edge, the guy behind the counter actually asked her what she wanted it for!"The University of Abertay, Dundee, which has Britain's longest-running computer gaming degree, has seen a gradual rise in the number of female students since the university began giving promotional lectures in schools. Inga Paterson, a tutor on Abertay's computer arts degree, who is organising this year'sWomen In Games conference, says: "Teachers have a positive influence on students' choice. And it's not just the girls; it's raising awareness that there are creative jobs in the games industry for everyone." When Paterson was studying an architecture degree, she recalls, there was a similar gender skew, but this balanced out as the industry grew in recognition.Eyles agrees: "I think to some extend this will sort itself out over the next few years." The growing popularity of consoles in the living room, such as Sony's EyeToy - which, in its first year of release, sold more than 3.5m globally, 35% of which were to new PlayStation 2 players -have made gaming more mainstream.Eyles hopes the schoolgirls who are starting to play these sorts of games at home will feed into university courses and graduate jobs. Maybe then the industry will wake up to the idea of a game of two halves - one of which has to be female.LinksWomen In Games conferencewww.womeningames.comChicks and Joystickswww.elspa.com/about/pr/elspawhitepaper3.pdfWomen Gamerswww.womengamers.comLondon Knowledge Lab researchwww.lkl.ac.uk/research/carr.html&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Illustration: Emma DoddThis week's Online supplement is in today's Guardian, and you can browse the contents at theOnline homepage.It's something of a gaming spectacular this week, as Natalie Hanman askswhy aren't there more women working in the games industry, and we look at Sony's attempt toblock grey importsof the PlayStation Portable.Not only that, but there's a look at Peter Molyneux's upcoming Hollywood god simThe Movies, and a peek at the BBC'snew interactive fiction.ElsewhereRichard StallmanandGlyn Moodymake the case for open source.And, of course, there's more. For full contents,click here
As reported yesterday, Jack Kilby - widely regarded as the inventor of the microchip - has died at 81.Our obituary ishere.
I love the fact thatBoing Boingeditor,Creative Commonsactivist and sci-fiauthorCory Doctorowwill be doing a live book launch and autograph sesh inLinden Lab's virtual worldSecond Lifefor his latest novelSomeone Comes to Town. Someone Leaves Town..It just makes it so real, doesn't it?For more information, check outWonderlandandCraphound.
"Halle Berry? Jennifer Aniston? Everybody knows them. And now a surprising study finds that even individual cells in your brain act as if they recognize them. The work could help shed light on how the brain stores information," reportsAP.When scientists sampled brain cell activity in people who were scrutinizing dozens of pictures, they found some individual cells that reacted to a particular celebrity, landmark, animal or object.In one case, a single cell was activated by different photos of Berry, including some in her "Catwoman" costume, a drawing of her and even the words, "Halle Berry."
Music playersCarry a tuneKorean manufacturer iRiver has launched a rival to Flash memory-based digital music players such as the Apple iPod Shuffle. Available with either 512MB or 1GB of storage, the T20 features a four line backlit LED display, weighs 30g and has a rechargeable battery with 14 hours of power. It plays back MP3, Ogg and Windows Media Audio (WMA) files and is compatible with copyright protected WMAs from sites such as Napster. It also boasts voice recording facilities and an alarm clock. It goes on sale in the UK next month with the one gigabyte version selling for &pound;132 and the 512MB for &pound;99.www.iriver.comMobile phonesCompact callingSamsung's ultra-compact 3G handset, the SGH-Z500 has gone on sale in the UK via Vodafone and O2. The clamshell phone, which at 95g is the lightest 3G model so far, features a pair of cameras (one low-resolution camera and one 1.3 megapixel) that enable users to capture still and moving images and make video calls. It boasts a high-quality 176 x 220 pixel TFT 256K display and features Bluetooth, MP3 playback and Java. The phone has 50MB of internal storage and a battery life of up to 260 hours standby and three hours talk time.www.samsung.co.ukHardwareChannel surfingBroadband cable TV operator Telewest is offering four new channels on a free web-based TV service. The service, available to all its broadband subscribers no matter how fast their connection, includes two entertainment channels, a sports channel and a service dedicated to the web. The channels are all transmitted in Windows Media Video format. To help users find their way around the channels, Telewest has included a three day on-screen guide. Users can also pause live programmes, but they can't store them on their hard disk. The company says it hopes to add new channels to the service later in the year.www.blueyonder.co.uk/tvDigital camerasNight visionCanon has released a version of its popular digital SLR camera, the EOS 20D, which has been optimised for astrophotography - taking pictures of the night sky. In addition to the original camera's 8.2 megapixel CMO sensor and Digic II processor, the EOS 20Da features a modified low-pass filter that apparently delivers the sharper and higher contrast levels required to capture night-time images. Unlike other conventional cameras, it is also capable of delivering a live magnified preview of each image on its 1.8in LCD monitor. The camera, which can also be used for conventional photography, features an intelligent nine point auto focus system, full manual controls and five frames per second burst mode. It will retail for &pound;1,829.99.www.canon.co.ukRadiosAll frequenciesWith digital radio becoming increasingly popular among consumers, Sony has pulled a host of new radios out of its sizeable pockets. The range stretches across the entire market in an attempt to woo buyers of all types, and covers radios for personal use, in the home and in-car. The most eye-catching releases include the XDR-M1 Walkman (pictured below), a black and aluminium-finished beauty that compares in size with most small Flash players. It is set to retail for about &pound;150, although playback is limited to about 10 hours. The XDR-S1 is the M1's bigger brother - a stylish white model aimed at the upper echelons of the home market. It should be usable throughout Europe - perfect for taking on a summer holiday - and will set you back &pound;130. Also announced in the new line-up were an in-car tuner, a component radio for hi-fi enthusiasts, and a micro model for the home.www.sony.co.ukNikon's pitch aimed at the right levelDigital camera manufacturers are trying to get users to upgrade from compact models to more flexible top-end cameras, hence the arrival of a growing number of entry level digital SLRs (single lens reflex). The Nikon D50, a smaller and lighter version of the popular D70, is bang on for this market. It is light, beautifully designed and starts up in just 0.2 seconds. With lens, it costs &pound;600.The six megapixel model takes excellent pictures in automatic mode, but there are seven digital Vari program modes. A "child" option is superb at rendering youngsters' skin tones, giving them a healthy glow.There are automatic options for settings such as white balance and exposure, though these can be adjusted via the relatively simple menu system. Nikon has also included a powerful battery that reportedly snaps 2,000 images before it dies. Storage is on an SD card. Other features include a reasonably bright 2in LCD monitor, continuous shooting at two frames per second, a timer and a remote control.Stat of the week - Moot on multimediaDespite Sony's attempts to highlight the multimedia capabilities of its PlayStation Portable, it is not the concern for most buyers. According to a report by Parks Associates, just 17% of intended purchasers thought multimedia playback was important.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Free wheelin' funGrand Theft Auto: San AndreasXbox, &pound;39.99Rockstar Games, ****Grand Theft Auto 3 changed the face of gaming when it arrived in 2001. Its groundbreaking free-form environment (steal cars, drive anywhere), stylish presentation and heavy violence was a revelation. A sequel, Vice City, continued the success by making the game bigger and setting the action in a pastiche of 80s Miami.The latest in the series is San Andreas, originally released last year on the PlayStation 2. The action is set in the early 90s in a thinly disguised California. Stretching the template to its seams, San Andreas is enormous. Three cities, plus the interconnected countryside, sounds a lot, and it is: finishing this game demands a serious amount of time.And that's the unusual thing about the GTA series. The games are challenging and, at times, frustrating, yet they appeal to the vast majority of gamers. This is mainly down to the freedom. Want to drive a car, shoot out the window or hunt for secret packages? The variety of gaming styles is immense - it is the ultimate gaming sandbox.Such is the ambition in San Andreas that the PS2 was unable to cope. Graphical glitches, such as the scenery appearing close-up, are still present on the Xbox, but the game looks better. However, you're unlikely to notice this as you cause havoc on the streets to the backdrop of nostalgic rap and rock. If you have this game on PS2, there is little point in owning the Xbox version. But if not, now is the time to visit San Andreas.Greg HowsonCheap thrillsBig Mutha Truckers 2PlayStation 2, Xbox, &pound;19.99Eutechnyx/Empire Interactive, ***As the name suggests, this truck-driving game doesn't take itself too seriously - you might describe it as Convoy meets Dukes Of Hazzard. But while its humour tends to rely on stereotypes of rednecks and UFO-hunting geeks, it raises the odd laugh, and its gameplay marks it out from the crowd.You play as one of four members of the Jackson family of road hauliers, whose matriarch is in custody. To spring her, you must generate enough cash to pay off her jurors, which generally involves buying goods to haul from city to city in your truck, earning bonuses by smashing buildings, giving hoboes lifts, and avoiding pitfalls such as cops on your tail.Each city you visit has a bar, in which you can track down jurors and pick up special missions, and a store in which you can buy and sell cargo and upgrade your rig. The special missions take you out of your truck and into vans, ambulances and the like. And there are numerous mini-games. In other words, Big Mutha Truckers 2 is hardly earth-shattering, but it is fun and, best of all, cheap.Steve BoxerA strange mixScarPlayStation 2, &pound;29.99Milestone/Black Bean, ***This is a weird one, freely borrowing elements from other genres to create what the publishers dub a CARPG (computer-assisted role-playing game) - but it probably should have been called a Frankengame, because the result is interesting but rarely pretty. The first person shooter-style name is inappropriate once you work out it stands for Squadra Corse Alfa Romeo; that's right, Scar is nothing more fearsome than a driving game.You also don't actually tune the cars, you tweak the drivers, spending the racing points you win on improving your driver's performance. Add the motion-blurring of Wipeout and a touch of Prince of Persia in the way you can rewind time, and you end up with a racing game totally unlike its peers. Scar is also unforgiving and difficult, with silly ideas, including the way your choice of clothing improves your performance. On the plus side, with the driver aids turned off, Scar takes real skill to master. But with so many better PS2 racers, this strange mix is unlikely to stand out.Mike AnderieszTop 5 gamesAll formats1.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas2.Medal of Honour: European Assault3.Juiced4.Star Wars III: Revenge of the Sith5.Lego Star Wars&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
ABI scumwareI am getting a stream of pop-ups, sometimes full screen, from "ABI Network - a division of Direct Revenue". It claims that "The ABI Network contextual advertising software is installed on this machine because you have received software free of charge through an ABI distributor", and says "it can be safely and completely removed by going to &#91;website address given&#93; to get the uninstall tool". A dozen attempts to restore Windows XP to an earlier date have also failed. Can you advise? I am very angry ...Brian CrowtherJack Schofield replies:Direct Revenue is distributing what looks like the most unpopular scumware to hit the net. A class action lawsuit is being mounted in the US (www.courtbriefs.com/PDF_Files/CCCOOK05CH05883CA.pdf). Spyware Warrior provides some interesting reading about the case athttp://netrn.net/spywareblog/archives, with even more horrifying details athttp://www.webhelper4u.com/directrevenue/drandabieulas.html.It may be true that you can remove this advertising malware by visitingwww.mypctuneup.com, but this requires accepting an end user licensing agreement that must be read carefully. Those unwilling to trust MyPCTuneUP are developing other removal techniques, often involving HiJackThis: search the Spyware Warrior and similar forums for detailed help. I also saved a page from Filesoup, How To Safely Remove Aurora, Nail.exe, which I can email readers, but not having seen ABI/Aurora, I can't say how well it works.The best approach is avoid installing anything from or connected with Direct Revenue and the ABI Network. Since victims claim the software is being installed against their wishes and without their knowledge, this may be easier said than done but, as always, be especially wary of exe files from file-sharing systems.Email bloatWhen emailing a number of photos through Outlook Express, how come it increases the size of the email dramatically? It can be 7MB when the total size of the photos is only 5MB.Robert PearlmanJS:All mail programs translate 8-bit binary files into a text-based format to send them by email. The most common formats are UUencode and Mime (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) Base64. The encoded files are always larger, and a photo that is 7-bit UUencoded typically becomes about a third larger. Encoding and decoding used to be a manual process but nowadays the mail software usually handles it automatically.SpammedWhere do I report spam to a government authority for the UK?Ted NeumannJS:As you appear to be based in the US, I think your best bet is to report it to the US authorities atuce@ftc.gov, or online athttps://rn.ftc.gov/pls/dod/. As far as I can tell, the UK government has no interest in spam reports, unless you have lost money in a 419 or "Nigerian" scam, or something similar. There is a list of international places to report spam, piracy, fraud and other online problems athttp://banspam.javawoman.com/report3.html, but it has not been updated recently.If you can identity a particular spammer, you can contact the ISP responsible for that IP address, which you can find from a Whois database. However, you usually need technical skill and persistence to get anywhere. If you just want to help reduce spam generally, you could use, for example, SpamCop's reporting service (www.spamcop.net/anonsignup.shtml).Backchat&#183;Last week, John Sinha asked about playing multi-region DVDs on an Apple PowerBook. I suggested VLC but warned it might not run. Mark Robinson says: "It runs perfectly on my non-SuperDrive PowerBook G4 running Tiger. Infinitely superior to Apple's DVD player and copes well with a multitude of encoded AVI files." I also suggested using Handbrake to make region-free copies of DVDs. Duncan Gray reckons MacTheRipper (www.ripdifferent.com/~mtr/) is "a better utility - easy to use with a clear manual and regular reminders to only use it to copy DVDs that you own." Both are free.&#183;Dan Donovan asked about transferring his LPs to disk and CD. Les Ball has just spent a year doing it "with the help of Avery Afterburner. I used Magix Audio Cleaning Lab, which is virtually a computer Sound Studio, available from their website for about &pound;33. It effortlessly removes hiss, crackles and clicks, and those it misses can be physically edited out. You can leave the recording to itself for part of the time, but I found it was better to be nearby in case of 'sticky grooves' etc. Best of all, I got to hear my entire collection." Dave Booth used the PolderbitS Sound Recorder and Editor (www.polderbits.com), which costs &euro;29.95. But Frank Murphy suggests it might be easier to buy CDs at a discount. This "may also be cheaper if you take into account the cost of your time, but you could balance the cost by selling your vinyl on eBay".&#183;Please send questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Letters will be edited but please include full details.
Is Hollywood really the hotbed of chaos and greed we are led to believe? The image of America's movie-making capital is no doubt much more entertaining than the reality - at least, that is the thinking behind The Movies, the latest simulation from Peter Molyneux, the creator of Populous, Theme Park and Magic Carpet.In this ambitious strategy game, players control a burgeoning Hollywood studio, guiding it through the days of silent movies, to the modern era of blockbusters. There are essentially three aspects: building and maintaining a successful studio, hiring and looking after actors, and making movies.To ensure an accessible process, the designers at Lionhead, Molyneux's company, developed a clever control system: you control an all-powerful hand icon that cruises around the environment, picking up objects or characters and placing them wherever you desire. If an actor needs to be hauled from the bar to the film set, you whiz over and physically grab them.What the game presents is a bustling and comic interpretation of life on a Hollywood set. Stars wander around getting into trouble, scriptwriters brainstorm in smoky offices, paparazzi lurk around every corner and wannabes queue outside the casting room for a big break. Each character has a complex, sentient personality based around ambitions, desires and, often, addictions. The player must manage these emotions and ensure everyone is happy, or at least beautiful - hence the presence of a gym and the offer of cosmetic surgery.It is clear The Movies wants to portray a gossip columnist's view of Hollywood, which is an inaccurate depiction. As studio head Gary Carr explains: "We have taken this game to E3 (the annual videogame trade event in Los Angeles) for a few years, and because of the show's location, you bump into wannabe stars who ask if all these technical features will be in the game, and they are talking about stuff I have never heard of."But this is definitely going to be a mass-market title, and the last thing we want to do is scare people off with detail that only 2% of the world understands. You can't have it too free form, or too technical. But I think it is incredibly flexible, and you'll be able to make unique movies."Ah yes, making movies. The game's defining feature is its brilliantly structured creative sandbox (open-ended gameplay), which took three years to balance. Players can simply grab a scriptwriter, dump them in front of a word processor, give them a genre and let them get on with it. The computer will then produce a movie based on the technologies and tastes of the era, and the acting talent available. A few minutes long, they are constructed from a library of 8,000 stock scenes covering a range of staple cinematic elements - car chases, kisses, brawls, romantic dinners, lonely walks.The player can then go into the advanced movie studio, to remove or add scenes, and edit elements such as costume, lighting, camera angles and emotional subtext - all with a simple selection of icons and slider controls. You will even be able to add subtitles or dialogue via a microphone plugged into your PC. The game lets you scan in a photo of yourself, then paste it on to an in-game character.A complex in-game reviewing system rates each movie, based on the quality of the actors, the sets and any contemporary significance. According to Carr, the game lets you know about historical events, so producing films that tie in with these, is a sure route to success.&#183;The Movies will be released on PC this autumn
'It is Christmas 2005 and President Bush has declared a state of emergency. The cause? A bird flu pandemic strickening thousands ... triggering global panic. Days later, a blogger is reporting from Hanoi on how its citizens - "fine in the morning, but dead by lunchtime" - are succumbing rapidly to the deadly H5N1 human form of the avian flu virus. By early February the disease is killing thousands in London and Paris."So goesNature magazine's fictitious blog, published this month in its Avian Flu Special as an alarm call.The warning does not predict the time or place, and the blog is pure speculation. What it does underline, in its adoption of the blogging formula, is the probability of the pandemic's start being better covered by bloggers than "accredited" media.Any outbreak of Avian flu is likely to begin its spread where news outlets are most fiercely controlled - Vietnam, China and Cambodia. When Sars surfaced in China in 2003, bloggers alerted the world while the government scrambled to cover up.Earlier this month, bird flu showed all the signs of repeating the formula. Netizens seemingly scooped conventional media when a Chinese news site published reports of a bird flu apocalypse unravelling in a remote part of China.Boxun (Abundant) News, a Chinese language website blocked in China, claimed thousands of wild birds died suddenly in the western Qinghai province. It said 200 people were infected with the deadly bird flu strain while about 121 had died. However, Boxun admits it could not independently verify the reports.The World Health Organisation requested access to the area but Chinese officials denied the reports, and said it was a mild outbreak. Authorities later agreed, however, that thousands of wild birds had died. Now, says Beijing, the WHO is not needed, as there are "no human cases", and they have closed the area.Could the Boxun website provide vital clues? We will never know. Last week, according to its editor, the Qinghai correspondents were arrested. But before they vanished, Boxun's contributors beamed images of thousands more dead birds to the website. One photo was doctored, however, raising questions about the integrity of the sources.Could the site merely be trying to discredit the Chinese government? Boxun declines to comment. Some media watchers view Boxun's agenda with apprehension, but there is one vital element missing from when it had its Sars scoop. Then, there were text messages reporting Sars deaths while Beijing was in denial."Those messages were forwarded to hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions. The authorities could not suppress the news," says online media expert and journalist Mark Glaser. "Once again, China is trying to suppress news that should be disseminated. Thanks to the internet, we can learn more about what's going on there through pictures and weblogs that have global distribution."Even experts are monitoring questionable sources to plot bird flu developments. One blogger,Silviu Dochia, agrees on the need for better information. "I think there is a consensus on the severity of the outbreak. The big unknown is human transmission. We could be in stage six of a pandemic or there could be no human infections."LinksNature's fictional blogwww.nature.com/nature/journal/v435/n7041/full/435400a.htmlSilviu Dochiahttp://avianflu.typepad.comDiscussion boardshttp://discuss.agonist.org/yabbse/&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
In a small chemist's shop on the outskirts of Seville, southern Spain, a customer drops by to pick up her prescription. She hands over a chip card showing her name and social security number. By slipping the card into a reader, the pharmacist calls up from a regional healthcare IT network a list of all the formulations and doses the patient needs.In the Belgian town of Diepenbeek, a citizen signs on for electronic public services with a new state electronic identity card. The card contains an electronic signature that is valid across local and central government, and even for internet banking.Both are examples of how European countries are using electronic ID cards to run public services. It is a vision that will appeal to the Home Office team planning the British national ID card scheme.However, any image of continental Europe as a zone of smartcard harmony is false. Although tentative efforts have begun to create state ID cards that are valid across borders, gulfs exist in the technology, use and political acceptability of electronic ID cards. And no continental country has adopted biometrics on the scale proposed for the UK.One continental prototype for the British scheme is the electronic card now being issued to 8m Belgians. Peter Strickx, chief technology officer of the federal government IT agency Fedict, says the card is a key part of a scheme to automate government services. Citizens can sign on electronically - joined-up government databases do the rest. Citizens would no longer have to apply for means-tested scholarships and other benefits, Strickx says: "We already know your income so we could automatically grant it."Belgium's government has the advantage that ID cards are already part of everyday life. The law has long required every Belgian over the age of 12 to carry one. The electronic card carries little data apart from a name, number and photograph. Cards are issued by local government, which decides a local fee: from nothing to &euro;35. There is no biometric, mainly because of the cost of reading devices, Strickx says.Across the border in France, the government is watching with perhaps some envy. It plans to introduce a compulsory secure electronic ID card from next year, to replace the current, theoretically voluntary, card.French feelings about the card appear similar to those in Britain. While polls show the population at large is in favour, opinion among people who have closely studied the subject is much more polarised.Last week, a pressure group, theInternet Rights Forum, submitted a hefty report to Nicolas Sarkozy, the interior minister, calling for a fuller debate on the project's dangers. "A compulsory electronic identity card would be a fundamental change to the republican spirit and traditions of France," it warned.So far, at least, the Spanish smart card is more limited in scope. The national social security card is being used by the country's largest province, Andalucia, as the key to what is probably the world's most integrated healthcare IT network.The Andalucian project has remarkably similar goals to the English national programme for IT in the NHS: a central electronic medical record to enable the booking of medical appointments and doing away with electronic prescriptions.Nearly 5m of the province's 7.6m inhabitants have an electronic medical record. The goal is for all to be on the system by the end of next year. The record can be called up at all GP clinics, though, as in Britain, hospital doctors lag behind. However, the province is well ahead of the NHS in implementing electronic prescribing.The smartcard is a crucial security measure, says Antonio Peinado Alvarez, general secretary of the Andalucia Health Service. The card contains no medical data, but it ensures that a record being opened by a doctor matches the patient, identified by national social security number. The system logs all views and changes to patient records, and allows patients to restrict access to sections of the record to the professional who created it.Apart from the ID cards, which are not part of the NHS plan for patients, there is a big difference between the Andalucian health service and its British equivalents. In Andalucia, the vast majority of doctors are direct employees - civil servants who can be required to use the technology.Both Alvarez and Strickx are enthusiastic supporters of a pan-European ID card system. Strickx says his government is talking to the European Commission to see whether the Belgian system could be adopted across Europe. One pressing need is to set up an EU-wide  "bridging" infrastructure to handle e-commerce in government procurements. The Andalucians are keen to explore ways of identifying their population of foreign residents.It remains to be seen whether the British government will advertise the good life in Seville as a selling point for its ID cards.&#183;Michael Cross travelled to Seville as a guest of Oracle and to Brussels as a guest of BEA SystemsLinksFalse pretencesFrench internet rights forumwww.foruminternet.org
Microsoft tends to use the word "open" in the same way George Orwell's Ministry of Love employs the word "love". But the announcement earlier this month that Microsoft would be adopting open file formats for the forthcoming Office 12 edition seems different.When Office 12 saves a document created in Word, Excel or PowerPoint, it will use XML - think of it as the smarter sibling of HTML, the language used to design web pages. Essentially, XML files are just text with some structure. For example, a Microsoft Word XML document would contain the basic content plus information about the typefaces, paragraph styles, etc, and how they are applied to content.Major customers and third-party software companies have been demanding this move to allow Microsoft Office to be used in advanced applications. With open formats, the information entered by a salesperson into an Excel spreadsheet could be fed directly into accounts and production systems, without the need for complex and costly translation software or manual re-entering. Moving to open formats lets Microsoft make Office the universal front end to a company's entire information system.But there is a big downside for Microsoft. One of the key properties of using an XML format is that it is easy to convert into different kinds of XML. So it should be straightforward to convert the new Office files into the OpenDocument XML format adopted by the international standards organisation Oasis just a week before Microsoft's announcement. This means that programs such as the free OpenOffice.org 2.0 will be able to offer perfect textual interoperability with Office 12. This overcomes one of the main objections to switching to OpenOffice.org. For most business and practically all government and home users, OpenOffice.org 2.0 suddenly becomes very attractive.Potentially, the move to open formats could lead to a mass migration from the costly Office to free, open source solutions. People at Microsoft aren't stupid, so this raises the intriguing question: how do they plan to prevent the XML exodus?The answer seems to be through software patents. One, granted in New Zealand, is entitled "Word-processing document stored in a single XML file that may be manipulated by applications that understand XML". This concerns precisely the process that would allow OpenOffice.org 2.0 to work with Microsoft Office 12 files. Overturning the patent will take lots of money and plenty of time - just what Microsoft needs to thwart open source alternatives.European Patent 1376387 makes the same claims. Since the European parliament is voting soon on whether to amend the European Commission's directive on software patents that would make this kind of absurdity a commonplace, now is a good moment to usewww.writetothem.comto urge your MEP to curb its worst excesses. If you don't, you may not have many computing options left open, so to speak.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Sony's PlayStation Portable is revelling in its status as this year's must-have gadget. Gamers everywhere lust after its sleek lines and smooth curves - but beneath the hype, the PSP has suddenly found itself embroiled in a darker story.The European arm of the Japanese electronics giant, Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, is trying to get a high court injunction against a number of British companies to stop them importing the PSP from outside Europe. The console went on sale in Japan last December, and buying imported units has become de rigueur among hardcore gamers who felt unable to wait until the machine's official European release, slated for September 1.Sony claims it has not given anyone permission to import the consoles, and that those who do so are infringing its trademarks. The importers, however, paint this as a David and Goliath story that underlines the double standards within the industry. They argue that major high street retailers are carrying PSP accessories, and that Sony has - until now - implicitly supported the import market. They even claim that Sony's own staff have been buying PSPs from grey market retailers.Under the letter of the law, grey importers must prove they have consent from Sony. "Consent can be inferred," says Brian Miller, a partner with law firm Davenport Lyons, "but it is important to note that consent will not be implied where the manufacturer has simply remained silent on the issue."Alex Chapman, a partner with law firm Briffa, which specialises in the games industry, says inferred consent will be tough to prove. "The legal question is whether Sony has given implied consent to these PSPs being put on the market in the European Union," he says.Sony's public statement says it "will continue to be vigilant and, where necessary, take appropriate action against those unlawfully importing PSPs into Europe". The company refused to make further comment.Importers, however, believe they are being unfairly treated by a firm that has not previously worried about the grey market. Some retailers, such as gadget site Firebox, have stopped selling imported PSPs - but others are vowing to take the fight to court."The industry has its fingerprints all over the PSP," says Dan Morelle, managing director of import firm ElectricBirdLand, one of the companies contesting the action. "We're not selling counterfeit products. All we're doing is the one thing Sony hasn't done: selling PSP to European buyers."Sony is seeking an injunction against those importers who have not stopped selling PSPs, and next Monday will be hoping for a decision in the high court.Taking on a corporate behemoth such as Sony is a costly operation."As a small family-run business, I can't afford the expensive lawyers that Sony has," says Morelle, who will be representing himself.So-called "grey" and "parallel" imports have long been standard practice in the games industry, allowing hardcore gamers to get hold of machines and titles early. This is especially important in Europe, where release dates almost invariably lag behind Japan and the US.The results of this action remain to be seen, but critics certainly have a case for arguing that Sony has brought the difficult situation on itself. The European launch date for PSP has been hugely delayed, and by the time the first official machines hit British stores on September 1, customers will have experienced nine months of the Sony hype machine in full swing. British consumers are used to being treated like poor cousins, but even the most patient fan might find it hard to stretch their excitement over such a long period.The British gaming industry provides many of the world's most important creative forces, and punters are crying out for PSPs. Whatever the arguments - and whatever the outcome - Sony could end up paying a high price for taking its time.Law of the landThe practice of importing games consoles and titles has been common in the videogames industry for many years. There are two sets of laws that apply to the import business, depending on the source of the goods.If goods are bought from another country inside the EU, the practice is known asparallel importing. If, for example, I discovered I could buy a game cheaply in Madrid and then re-sell it in Manchester, I would be parallel importing. Although many manufacturers do not like it, this practice is legal as long as certain conditions have been met.The item must be repackaged to show who the importer is (as well as the name of the original manufacturer), and this must happen without damaging the condition of the goods.Any additional items - such as power adapters - must be clearly presented as the responsibility of the importer, not the original manufacturer. Finally, there must be notice given to the manufacturer that the repackaged products are going on sale.If I decide to bring in goods from outside Europe, this is known asgrey importing. In terms of the games industry, this usually means the goods have been bought in Japan or America, and then brought into the UK.The rules in this case are weighted towards manufacturers, as long as they own the trademark rights for their product within Europe.Unless consent has been given by the manufacturer for others to import the goods, then it can be deemed illegal. There may be cases in which consent can be inferred, but it is up to the importer to prove that consent has been given.The issue of consent is at the centre of the legal battle: some importers claim that Sony implied consent, which the company denies.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Microsoft's P2PMicrosoft Research in Cambridge has developed a peer-to-peer file-sharing system similar to BitTorrent. The software, codenamed Avalanche, will make it quicker and easier to share large files, such as music and movies, across the net. The technology has been in development for several years, and Microsoft says it saves network resources by downloading pieces of a file from the nearest client computers that possess the file rather than from a central server. Also, like PAR2 software, the different file segments have built-in redundancy so users do not have to obtain every segment to be able to reconstruct the whole file. Finally, unlike BitTorrent, Avalanche has been designed to control and manage the distribution of copyright material, which could make  it attractive to large publishers such as TV networks.http://research.microsoft.com/~pablo/avalanche.htmPublic sourceThe National Computing Centre in Manchester is offering public sector organisations the facility to try open-source applications and configurations. The first user of the Open Source Laboratory will be Cheshire County Council, which is evaluating a combined open source and proprietary software solution for desktop services. The council is hoping to prove it can deliver cost savings while allowing service levels to be maintained. The laboratory is available to all public sector organisations, and provides free access to hardware and technical support to  define tests according to individual needs. The facility forms part of the Open Source Academy funded by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister.www.ncc.co.ukPick a cardUp to 40m credit card accounts may be at risk following MasterCard International's disclosure that hackers have breached a partner's network. A vulnerability at CardSystems Solutions in Arizona allowed thieves to access the basic details of account holder names and bank account numbers. CardSystems handles payments for several credit card companies, and MasterCard says that 13.5m of its accounts were among those put at risk. Card-issuing banks, thought to be US-based, have been informed and they will notify affected consumers.  The breach was followed by a wave of phishing attempts to prey on worried card holders, the idea being to lure them to fake websites where logging in will give away their account details.www.mastercardinternational.comCharitable messageSt Christopher's Fellowship, a registered childcare charity and housing association, is using mobile phone text messaging as a secure method of communicating with staff and users. The system is based on Avanquest's Text Message Service, which allows text to be sent and received from mobile phones from networked desktop computers. A month-long pilot saw a significant rise in the use of SMS among the 50 users. St Christopher's implementation allows incoming texts to be routed to specific mailboxes in Microsoft Exchange email server, and messages can be broadcast to groups of users.http://corporate.avanquest.co.uki-Mode readyMobile phone operator O2 is planning to become the NTT DoCoMo of the UK in autumn through its exclusive licensing of i-Mode. NTT's i-Mode has been successful in Japan as an alternative to Wap (wireless application protocol), and DoCoMo's service has more than 40m users. i-Mode uses a standard format for displaying website information on a mobile phone screen. The charges are based on data transferred rather than on connection time, making  i-Mode more economical. O2's service will reflect the consumer-based Japanese version, but it may be extended to allow corporate applications, the company says. Phones supporting  i-Mode will be sourced from NEC.www.02.com/media/businesCray topsAMD is claiming the "fastest supercomputer" title on the basis that a 1,100-processor Cray XT3 supercomputer had the best scores on seven of the 10 "condensed results" tests in the HPC Challenge for high-performance computers. The competition includes an SGI Altix 3700 system with 1,008 processors and an IBM Blue Gene system with 1,024 processors. The Cray uses Opteron processors and HyperTransport technology. The world's largest Opteron-based system, a Cray called Red Storm, is being installed at Sandia National Laboratories in the US. The challenge benchmark programs can be downloaded from the HPC site.http://icl.cs.utk.edu/hpcc/Cisco shiftCisco, the dominant network equipment supplier, has launched Application Oriented Networking (AON), an add-on device that will enable its routers and switches to read and understand the traffic they are carrying - particularly interapplication messages. This should help firms construct service-oriented architectures. SAP, IBM and other firms are expected to build AON support into their applications. Although it may fail, or will take years to become pervasive, AON involves moving middleware from the application to the network. This represents a fundamental shift in the networking market.
Almost a decade after they were first appeared, plasma screens are moving into the mainstream. With low-end quality brand 42in models selling for less than &pound;1,000, and highly specified screens, which will be ready for Sky's High Definition TV transmissions next year, already in stores, plasma seems to be establishing itself as the future form of television.It seems odd, then, that some industry figures are already penning plasma's obituary. Several companies, such as BenQ and Sharp, have stopped making plasmas altogether, and earlier this year, when it was wrongly reported that Sony was pulling out of the plasma market, few in the industry seemed surprised.There have always been key problems with plasma screens, such as their bulky size and limited lifespan, and it seems new and better screen technologies are on the horizon. Many are predicting LCD will dominate the next decade. Sharp and Samsung have invested heavily in the format, and are achieving screen sizes at least the equal of plasmas, even though they are considerably more expensive. Sharp's 65in set goes on sale early next year.Yet there is one key area in which plasma has a lead over LCD: displaying fast-moving images. The refresh rate of a plasma screen is as much as three times quicker than its rival. Several manufacturers are working to correct this, including Philips, which unveiled a new technology called Clear LCD earlier this year. Motion blur on LCDs is apparently the result of the slow response of liquid crystals that often take several frames to switch completely. By using a system called Overdrive Control to increase voltage to the LCDs, this reaction speed is quickened.If LCD doesn't capture the public's imagination, manufacturers are looking even further into the future at newer technologies. Samsung recently astonished the industry with a 40in OLED (Organic Light Emitting Diode) prototype. OLEDs have several advantages over rival technologies: they don't require a backlight so use less power, they are very thin, and they boast fast picture refresh rates that deliver quality images.Motorola has also been working on a long-term alternative in the guise of Carbon Nanotube, which uses Nano Emissive Display technology, while Sony is keen on the older Liquid Crystal on Silicon format. Philips is apparently working on a new technology in which an LCD screen is backlit by LEDs, which gives it the edge over standard LCD in terms of resolution and stability.If, however, you have just spent half your monthly salary on a new plasma screen, you shouldn't be too downhearted. According to websitewww.pricegrabber.co.ukplasmas are outselling LCDs seven to three, so they're not disappearing just yet.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
The first thing to say about BT's Fusion is that it works. It's the first mobile phone that can also use your fixed phone line, and it happily switches calls from one network to the other - at least, it did in a demonstration at BT's offices.When you are out and about, the Fusion Bluephone uses Vodafone's mobile network. Indoors, it uses a Bluetooth hub to connect phone calls via your broadband service to the Vodafone system."It's a perfectly normal-seeming Motorola v560 clamshell handset," says Dean Bubley, of Disruptive Analysis, one of the privileged few to get the demo at the launch last week. "When it's attached via Bluetooth, an icon comes up and you speak normally," says Bubley. "When you walk out of range of the hub, you hear a trill and the conversation carries on." The call quality indoors is just as good as outdoors, he says, if not better.But very few people will get this close to a Bluephone. Orders are being taken, but until the full roll-out in September, only 400 will be sold. Even then, it will only be available to BT Broadband customers.The phone is aimed at impatient, non-technical people who want to have one phone, and not have to think about it. They're the ones who will call someone from their mobile, even when they are in the house, because the phone number is in their mobile's directory."Seventy per cent of people avoid using their mobile because of cost," said Ian Livingston, chief executive of BT Retail, "but 30% of mobile calls are made from home."It is also going to help people who don't have good mobile coverage in their homes - one-fifth of mobile customers, according to Livingston.More technical people - the ones who use a prefix dialler such as 18866, or use Skype (a Voice over Internet Protocol service) for free calls - will see Fusion's prices as a backward step for home users, while others will see them as a fair price for the convenience of a single handset. As a mobile, you get 100 free minutes for a &pound;10 monthly charge.The real cost disadvantage is hidden: all incoming calls are charged at mobile rates, whether the phone is indoors or outside.If you are on the borderline, the service won't oscillate between the two networks unnecessarily but when it does switch, the handover is smooth. "It's pretty seamless," says Bubley. "The trill &#91;the noise made&#93; is 100 to 200 milliseconds long, so it could mask a short gap. But it is entirely usable."The range of the device - at least in BT's demo - is about 20 metres.It is important to remember that this is a first-generation product. BT has used Bluetooth, rather than Wi-Fi, because Wi-Fi-enabled mobile phones are not ready for consumer adoption. "People say there are lots of converged handsets, but they need to be at the mid-price point, and they aren't there," says Ryan Jarvis, director of mobile products and partnerships at BT. Wi-Fi phones also have a shorter battery life, he points out.However, by next year, Wi-Fi handsets will be consumer-ready, says Jarvis, and Fusion users should be able to upgrade just by swapping their handsets. The Fusion hub has a Wi-Fi access point already built in.Until the new handsets arrive, you can use the hub to share your broadband with other wireless devices, says Jarvis. If you already have Wi-Fi, you can get a Bluetooth-only hub, but BT won't be promoting that option because it wants you to replace your system with its Wi-Fi. That way, you will be ready for the wireless upgrade next year.The Wi-Fi version will be a big change. From the start, users will be able to make cheap calls at any BT Openzone hotspot, says Jarvis, and he hints that users will ultimately be able to roam to other providers' sites, including those abroad.Next year's model will also iron out a minor irritation of this year's Fusion. Because a phone can only pair to one Bluetooth device at a time, today's Fusion will not roam on to the indoor system if you are using a wireless headset. If you want to go hands-free indoors, there is an earpiece on a wire.Alongside the Wi-Fi version for consumers, there will also be a system designed for businesses, which links through the office phone system. This is expected to move to a different technology - using SIP instead of UMA - to give more internet-based features. Jarvis promises the two will be compatible, so business people can roam from the enterprise version in the office to their home Fusion system.When the consumer system hits Wi-Fi speeds, and uses a fancier phone such as the RAZR, BT will start to offer more advanced services such as web browsing over Wi-Fi. At the moment, it is a voice-centric device that does text messages, but it doesn't support GPRS data over the Bluetooth link.It will be a big test of BT's ability to pull the technologies together. If people get their Wi-Fi access point from BT, they will want that access point - and the phone itself - to work with all their other devices. Appointments and photos in the phone should synchronise with the PC over Wi-Fi. As Bubley says: "We will need a handset that plays nicely with our other equipment."
Next month, the European Parliament will vote on the vital question of whether to allow patents covering software, which would restrict every computer user and tie software developers up in knots.Many politicians may be voting blindly - not being programmers, they don't understand what software patents do. They often think patents are similar to copyright law (except for some details), which is not the case.For example, when I publicly asked Patrick Devedjian, then the minister for industry, how France would vote on the issue of software patents, he responded with an impassioned defence of copyright law, praising Victor Hugo for his role in the adoption of copyright.Those who imagine effects like those of copyright law cannot grasp the real effects of software patents. We can use Hugo as an example to illustrate the difference between the two.A novel and a modern complex programme have certain points in common: each is large and implements many ideas. Suppose patent law had been applied to novels in the 1800s; suppose states such as France had permitted the patenting of literary ideas. How would this have affected Hugo's writing? How would the effects of literary patents compare with the effects of literary copyright?Consider the novel Les Mis&eacute;rables, written by Hugo. Because he wrote it, the copyright belonged only to him. He did not have to fear that some stranger could sue him for copyright infringement and win. That was impossible, because copyright covers only the details of a work of authorship, and only restricts copying. Hugo had not copied Les Mis&eacute;rables, so he was not in danger.Patents work differently. They cover ideas - each patent is a monopoly on practising some idea, which is described in the patent itself.Here's one example of a hypothetical literary patent:Claim 1: a communication process that represents, in the mind of a reader, the concept of a character who has been in jail for a long time and becomes bitter towards society and humankind.Claim 2: a communication process according to claim 1, wherein said character subsequently finds moral redemption through the kindness of another.Claim 3: a communication process according to claims 1 and 2, wherein said character changes his name during the story.If such a patent had existed in 1862 when Les Mis&eacute;rables was published, the novel would have infringed all three claims - all these things happened to Jean Valjean in the novel. Hugo could have been sued, and would have lost. The novel could have been prohibited - in effect, censored - by the patent holder.Now consider this hypothetical literary patent:Claim 1: a communication process that represents, in the mind of a reader, the concept of a character who has been in jail for a long time and subsequently changes his name.Les Mis&eacute;rables would have infringed that patent, too, because it also fits the life story of Jean Valjean.These patents would all cover the story of one character in a novel. They overlap, but they do not precisely duplicate each other, so they could all be valid simultaneously - all the patent holders could have sued Victor Hugo. Any one of them could have prohibited publication of Les Mis&eacute;rables.You might think these ideas are so simple that no patent office would have issued them. We programmers are often amazed by the simplicity of the ideas that real software patents cover - for instance, the European Patent Office has issued a patent on the progress bar, and one on accepting payment via credit cards. These would be laughable if they were not so dangerous.Other aspects of Les Mis&eacute;rables could also have fallen foul of patents. For instance, there could have been a patent on a fictionalised portrayal of the Battle of Waterloo, or a patent on using Parisian slang in fiction. Two more lawsuits.In fact, there is no limit to the number of different patents that might have been applicable for suing the author of a work like Les Mis&eacute;rables. All the patent holders would claim they deserved a reward for the literary progress that their patented ideas represented - but these obstacles would not promote progress in literature. They would only obstruct it.However, a very broad patent could have made all these issues irrelevant. Imagine patents with broad claims, like these:&#183;Communication process structured with narration that continues through many pages.&#183;A narration structure sometimes resembling a fugue or improvisation.&#183;Intrigue articulated around the confrontation of specific characters, each in turn setting traps for the others.Who would the patent holders have been? They could have been other novelists, perhaps Dumas or Balzac, who had written such novels - but not necessarily.It isn't necessary to write a programme to patent a software idea, so if our hypothetical literary patents follow the real patent system, these patent holders would not have had to write novels, or stories, or anything - except patent applications.Patent parasite companies - businesses that produce nothing except threats and lawsuits - are growing larger.Given these broad patents, Hugo would not have reached the point of asking what patents might get him sued for using the character of Jean Valjean. He could not even have considered writing a novel of this kind.This analogy can help non-programmers to see what software patents do. Software patents cover features, such as defining abbreviations in a word processor or natural order recalculation in a spreadsheet.They cover algorithms that programmes need to use. They cover aspects of file formats, such as Microsoft's new formats for Word files. The MPeg 2 video format is covered by 39 different US patents.Just as one novel could infringe many different literary patents at once, one programme can infringe many different patents at once. It is so much work to identify all the patents infringed by a large programme that only one such study has been done.A 2004 study of Linux, the kernel of the GNU/Linux operating system, found that it infringed 283 different US software patents. That means each of these 283 different patents covers a computational process found somewhere in the thousands of pages of source code of Linux.The text of the directive approved by the council of ministers clearly authorises patents covering software techniques.Its backers claim the requirement for patents to have a "technical character" will exclude software patents - but it will not. It is easy to describe a computer programme in a "technical" way, the boards of appeal of the European Patent Office said.The board is aware that its comparatively broad interpretation of the term "invention" in Article 52 (1) EPC will include activities so familiar that their technical character tends to be overlooked, such as the act of writing using pen and paper.Any usable software can be  "loaded and executed in a computer, programmed computer network or other programmable apparatus" in order to do its job, which is the criterion in article 5 (2) of the directive for patents to prohibit even the publication of programmes.The way to prevent software patents from bollixing software development is simple: don't authorise them. In the first reading, in 2003, the European parliament adopted the necessary amendments to exclude software patents, but the council of ministers reversed the decision.Citizens of the EU should phone their MEPs without delay, urging them to sustain the parliament's previous decision in the second reading of the directive.&copy; 2005 Richard Stallman. Verbatim copying and distribution of this entire article are permitted worldwide without royalty in any medium provided this notice is preserved.&#183;Richard Stallman launched the GNU operating system (www.gnu.org) in 1984 and founded the Free Software Foundation (fsf.org) in 1985. G&eacute;rald S&eacute;drati-Dinet devised the examples in this article.
