I've been seeking advice about the best approach to cataloguing and managing a 35mm slide collection that I use for giving slideshows to raise funds for charity. One line of advice has been that I could do what I want using Excel, with the proviso that this is perhaps not the most elegant way of tackling it; others have recommended Access, of which I have absolutely no experience. InAsk Jack on 5 November 2009, you said that you were not a fan of Access. Which program you would recommend as an alternative for a single-user application?Glyn DugganMicrosoft Office Access, as it's now called, is undoubtedly a popular business tool, and a reasonably skilled programmer can use it to develop all kinds of applications. However, I find it far from user-friendly, and it represents massive overkill for your type of application. Sledgehammer, meet peanut.If you already have Access as part of Microsoft Office System 2007 or 2010, then it could be solution if you can find a pre-written template that does (more or less) what you need. There are plenty of templates around, but a search forphoto albumsat the Microsoft Office site findsno results for Access, nor do searches for photo catalog, slide catalog and similar terms. The most likely thing I could find is the Collections template atAccessToGo, but I wouldn't recommend it at £95.You could certainly do the job in Microsoft Excel, but it requires quite a lot of expertise to set up validated fields and make the result look like anything except a spreadsheet. Also, people who use Excel as a database (including me) tend to scramble them eventually.You can find plenty of small database programs for cataloguing things on freeware/shareware sites such asDownload.comandTucows. The problem with photo cataloguing software is that it usually assumes you want to manage digital photos, including the EXIF data that the camera stores with the image file. An increasing amount of this software also assumes you want to do some simple editing and perhaps batch-file work. The best free examples include Microsoft's Windows Live Photo Gallery (the latest version, which is excellent, requires Vista or Windows 7) and Google's Picasa.For someone who wants more of a database, then the free, open sourcedigiKam(for Microsoft Windows, Linux or Mac OS X) is worth a look, though it is still a "work in progress". For someone who is a serious amateur or professional photographer,Adobe Lightroom 4looks a good choice at its new reduced price (£103.88), and there is afree download(719MB) you can try.Since you presumably don't have digital thumbnails of your 35mm slides, none of these programs is suitable for your purposes.What I think you need is a simple, stable, fast, flat-file database that works like a card index. It would be even better if you could find a template for it that pre-populates the fields with useful entries such as date, number, subject and so on. If not, you will have to create your own fields on a single index card, but it shouldn't take very long.As it happens, there is a simple, stable, fast flat-fileBritishdatabase that works like a card index: Cardbox. The pro version starts at £299 for a single user, but this year Cardbox boss Martin Kochanski made the Home Edition of Cardbox 3.0a free download. Although I don't know exactly what your requirements are, I think Cardbox is flexible enough to do the job.For the record, I was a happy Cardbox user in about 1983-84, and recommended it at the time.As it happens, the Cardbox site does have a guide toBuilding a photographic archive. However, it requires the Pro edition and assumes you will be storing images on Amazon S3.In about 1993-94 (Windows 3 era), I started using an American flat-file database calledAskSam, because it had filters to import my CompuServe email and because a shop had a cheap offer (I paid £50). AskSam is still going: it's now up to version 7 at $149.95 (with a free 30-day trial).AskSam will also do what you need, and you might find afree templatethat you can adapt. However, the two things I like about AskSam – its vast range of import filters, and its Boolean search capabilities – are probably of no use to you, so I'd use Cardbox if possible.Any Mac OS X users who are faced with a similar problem could tryFilemaker's Bento 4(£34.99). This also has somefree templatesavailable, though I can't see anything designed for cataloguing a collection of photos or 35mm slides. (There is one for tracking yourpencil collection.)The modern trend is to stick things in relational databases that useSQL(Structured Query Language). There are some good free SQL databases available, such as the open source SQLite, MySQL (now owned by Oracle) and Microsoft's SQL Express. This is probably the most secure format for longevity, but it's unnecessarily complicated for your purposes. Worse, different implementations of SQL often have nasty incompatibilities. However, both Cardbox and AskSam can export data in a variety of formats. If you need to move your data to another program at some point, this should not be difficult.Although it's not a technical problem, entering the data for your slides, one at a time, could take ages. Start by entering the data for five or 10 sample slides and time yourself. Since you know how many slides you have, you can then work out how long the job will take. Bear this in mind when you set up your database fields.Databases of collections usually fall in the "nice to have" category, rather than "essential". They're easier to start than to finish.
When is an ending not an ending? Judging by EA's decision today, it's when several thousand gamers protest until it's changed.In March, Canadian developer Bioware launched the final instalment in its hugely popular Mass Effect series. Days later, fans of the sci-fi role-playing adventures, which have sold over five million copies worlwide, began to complain about the conclusion. I won't give it away here, but many felt that the somewhat abrupt and obtuse nature of the ending left them with a huge sense of anti-climax.Then the protests started. An online petition appreared gaining hundreds of signatures within hours. A group namedRetake Mass Effect 3was founded inviting disgruntled gamers to make donations to the charity Child's Play in a kind of philanthropic gesture of protest – they raised $80,000. "We believe that it is the right of the writers and developers of the Mass Effect series to end that series however they see fit," the site maintained. But then they wanted a different ending anyway. They wanted it because the range of conclusions on offer wasn't wide enough to reflect the diverse array of personal journeys possible through the trilogy, and because the end didn't close off on every strand of the vast universe the franchise inhabited.And now Bioware has succumbed. EA has announced that a free DLC release due this summer will "expand upon the events" witnessed at the finale of the game. There will be no interactive content, and the ending isn't being changed as such; it's simply a series of cinematic sequences designed to give further clarity to the conclusion and answer some unanswered questions. It is perhaps the gaming equivalent of those text sequences at the end of true story movies, informing viewers about the later lives of the protagonists.BioWare co-founder Ray Muzyka has said in a statement:"Since launch, we have had time to listen to the feedback from our most passionate fans and we are responding. With the Mass Effect 3: Extended Cut we think we have struck a good balance in delivering the answers players are looking for while maintaining the team's artistic vision for the end of this story arc in the Mass Effect universe."It is a victory of sorts for the protestors. But what the whole industry wants to know is, is this right?Well... it's tricky. The movie business has for years used test screenings of new films to tweak content and appease potential customers – often to the chagrin of directors. It was test screenings of Bladerunner that led to the inclusion of the movie's happy ending, as opposed to Ridley Scott's more abrupt and ambigious closure. So really, it does little good arguing that games, like movies, are art and that the artist's vision should be final: both games and films are commercial entities, delivered to make money for shareholders – feedback and amendments are part of this, whether purists like it or not.There is also an added complication for games. Over the past few years, the concept of post-release patches and ongoing DLC have muddied the whole concept of the 'ending'. We're being taught by the industry that games are not products anymore, they are services, and as such, expansions and additions are part of the entertainment production line.Often fans welcome this. Role-playing games like World of Warcraft, Fable and Fallout have all seen various digital extensions offering new locations and story elements – Half-Life 2 was continued into two episodes, which have confused the whole issue of a subsequent sequel.At the same time, developers are obsessed with the idea of community. Every major studio has a community manager whose job it is to foster and maintain links with the online fanbase; many run events and festivals for their most ardent supporters. It has also become commonplace to run public beta tests of forthcoming releases, altering gameplay balance and other content, based on subsequent feedback. This is usually geared toward multiplayer content, of course, but it all feeds into this emerging notion of creative malleability and fan power.The Mass Effect 3 protesters have been criticised in some quarters, but they're just doing what the marketers and developers want them to do – take ownership of the brand. Advocacy works both ways; this is a relationship after all. Getting to the end of the Mass Effect series with a character based on saved data from the whole series may represent hundreds of hours of investment from dedicated fans. Shouldn't that investment offer them some sort of return in the form of a satisfactory conclusion?The problem, of course, is in defining satisfaction. If they just want a happy ending, that's not really good enough (and that'sclearlynot the case here). If the protestors want something more complex and emotionally rewarding, that won't be addressed by some explanatory clips.And what if all they're really upset about is the fact that the thing they love has got to end? There's a chance that, like the great long-running TV dramas, no ending can ever really bring about total catharsis for a majority of viewers. As the makers of shows like the Sopranos and Lost discovered, the narrative machinery of long-form fiction, with the myriad characters, plot lines and complications it feeds on, is often resistant to the whole concept of sudden, definititive closure.I loved Lost. I watched every episode with enthusiasm and often awe; I read the books that Sawyer did, I studied the philosophers namechecked by the writers, looking for hints and clues... [SPOILER ALERT] Then it ended with Jack saving the world by putting a stone stopper back in a pond plughole, before going to heaven. [SPOILER OVER]. Frankly, I didn't know what to think, but I know that I was nowhere near forming a protest group.So yes, publishers can talk about games as platforms, they can talk about listening to their communities and reacting accordingly, but really, we have to trust story-tellers to give us the closure they always meant, however painful, however unsatisfactory.Because there is something fundamental at the heart of this. All things end; everything does. We're often not very good at accepting this, and we sometimes exhibit that in strange ways. Endings are hard. They hurt.And worst of all, sometimes things just end badly. They end without making any sense. We all know that. Rage against the cruelty of it by all means, but recognise a simple truth – that happy endings have their problems too.
Swedish firm Propellerhead Software is one of the key companies in the history of electronic music-making, having been responsible for software like ReBirth – which emulated Roland's famous 303 synthesizer and 808 and 909 drum machines – and studio package Reason.Now it's making apps. Starting with aniOS version of ReBirthin May 2010, and now with an entirely new app calledFigure.The latter costs 69p on the App Store, and deploys Propellerhead's knowledge and technology in an app accessible enough to have non-skilled musicians grinning from ear-to-ear within a couple of minutes of starting it, as they blast out big beats and squelchy acid basslines."I think we as an industry haven't been that great about inviting people in who don't have deep dreams about becoming big stars or understanding everything about music production," says chief executive Ernst Nathorst Böös."It's time for that: I think everyone should be invited to be part of this. Figure is a small step towards that."ReBirth was a logical first step for Propellerhead onto iOS back in 2010: Böös says it fitted neatly with the nostalgia in the apps world outside the music genre, such as people playing games like Tetris and Myst."It was a good exercise for us, and people really appreciated it," he says. "But ReBirth is very complex, and we decided that next time – the first time we'd make a new design for iOS or any portable device – we wanted to do something different."Böös says Propellerhead thought hard about how the app would be used, or specifically thecontextin which it would be used. A couple are outlined in its App Store listing: "Create an addictive beat before the next bus stop or lay down a beefy bass line while waiting in line at the bank.""People use their phones and iPads very differently from the way they use their computers," says Böös"There is also a different aspiration when we talk to users about why they're launching an app on these devices. We think a lot of the stuff we have seen so far on music applications doesn't really pick up on that. They pick up on the format: touch and the obvious things. But for us this is a completely different type of situation for music-making."Figure was developed in six months, says Böös, who praises iOS as a development platform, not least because Propellerhead could use a lot of the code from its existing Mac applications.He says that mobile now feels a lot like computers did in the early days of the company."We helped to define how people make music on computers. We were the first ones to do the hardware metaphor thing, and to put programmable drum machines on a screen," he says."We had to figure out a lot of things, because there was no [existing] method for doing all that stuff. And we re-used that knowledge for a new platform, where we're trying to look at it with a fresh perspective."Böös says Propellerhead is "committed" to Figure as an app, although the company isn't saying yet what its plans are for new features in future upgrades.One direction might be more social features, to help people share the music they create in Figure with friends. Böös says that Propellerhead is already getting plenty of feedback from first-day users of the app, but also has a strong idea of what the main requests will be from using it internally and showing it to friends in the run-up to its launch.The 69p price clearly had a lot of thought behind it, in terms of getting Figure out to a mass audience. "It's been part of what we've always done, trying to lower the barriers and allow people to have a chance to have a 303, a console to mix on, 200 tracks of audio to record on and really powerful synthesizers," he says."There is philosophical marketing thought behind the price, as well as, well, what the hell!"Böös adds that Propellerhead isn't differentiating between professional musicians and non-musically skilled iPhone owners who might play with the app, though."We think musicians, regardless what level they're on, will have phones, tablets and computers, and they will use them in different situations," he says."Think about email: you write an email differently when you write it on your phone, compared to sitting down at your computer, taking a deep breath and writing a longer one. It's still emailing, but dependent on the device and the situation. That's how we see this."
Go toefi.com, click on PrintMe and download one of the apps for the iPhone, iPad and Android devices – and there in the palm of your hand you will have what analyst Gary Peterson is describing as not merely the future of printing, but the saviour of printing.For Peterson – until recently a self-confessed print optimist – developers of these third-party apps will in the future do, he believes, what the printer manufacturers have so far failed to do and come up with a way to prevent the humble computer printing business from becoming another scalp on the late Steve Jobs's belt."No one in the printing industry, or outside it, had any idea that the iPad would come along and destroy three- to four-thousand-year-old human traditions concerning paper, as they didn't realise that there was now a new generation out there who are far more prepared to read from a screen than the printed page," says Peterson, the chief executive ofSan Diego-based independent research analysts Gap Intelligence.So Peterson believes that the future of printing, if there is one, comes down to open-source third-party app developers, hoping as he does that "some kid in the garage will come up with the Angry Birds of printing that will encourage people to print again".Despite the new apps, Peterson has now joined with many other analysts in predicting that the printer is dead or dying in a conversion that began after the "Valentine's Day present" that Morgan Stanley gave the printer manufacturers last year in its report, Imaging and Printing: Tablets to Reduce Printing Demand, which warned that tablet ownership would accelerate the reduction in demand for printing that began in 2006 by between 8% and 15%.His conversion was completed when this year, in an early "Easter Egg" note to investors, Morgan Stanley further warned that printing in some areas had declined by as a much as 16%, and offered other juicy stats such as the fact that 41% of tablet owners cited reduced printing as one of the benefits of tablet adoption.These predictions gained extra traction and blog inches because they increasingly seemed to be reflecting the gut instinct of many analysts – including Peterson – that the iPad, other tablets and even smartphones must be decreasing the amount of printing that people do.Simply by watching how people use these devices on the train or even talk about them in the pub, analysts felt they could tell that something was up, not to mention that the number of tablets and smartphones is soon set to overtake the 1.3bn printers installed  worldwide. Or even that there are new patterns emerging, such as a blurring of the home/office divide as individuals take their own iPads to previously tablet-free workplaces.While sceptics were quick to point out that some of the Morgan Stanley conclusions were themselves based on anecdotal evidence and that the end of printing may prove to be about as accurate as the paperless office and other Tomorrow's World predictions, for print pessimists – even newly minted ones like Peterson – the news that last week the formerly successful HP printer business was being merged with its PC division – owing, in part, to slowing growth, flat revenue and lower profits, seemed to validate these fears, especially as he felt there was a lack of any idea from the manufacturer as to when this might be reversed.While Peterson claims that he would feel anxious if he was about to go into the printer-making business, Louella Fernandes has a different take on the issue, since she is not quite sure that the end of print is happening as fast as Peterson thinks, or even that tablets are the real culprit. "We are not seeing it at the moment," she says.Fernandes is a principal analyst at independent analystsQuocircaand co-author, along with fellow principal analyst Rob Bamforth, of a more optimistic report, dating from January 2012: The mobile print enterprise: How IT consumerisation is driving anytime, anywhere printing.In the report she argues that while there has been a lot of talk about tablets, there is still an appetite for printing. Moreover, that appetite is fueling an emerging market for what can be called mobile printing or cloud printing, as can be seen from the fact that 60% of the 125 businesses that responded want to print from mobiles and 25% are already looking for mobile print solutions. Such solutions will generally involve the ability to submit print jobs directly from a smartphone or a tablet to an enabled or registered printer, often by emailing documents by Wi-Fi, and increasingly via the cloud. Hewlett-Packard, which pioneered this with ePrint, shifted 15m web-enabled ePrinters last year alone.However, this new market is being hampered by a lack of standards and different levels of compatibility that make it especially difficult for those companies that operate a so-called mixed fleet of printers; and there remain security issues around Wi-Fi printing.Although Fernandes believes that the emergence of third-party apps by companies such as Efi is important in overcoming these barriers as they are agonistic and able to work with printers from any manufacturer, such apps are nonetheless still  embryonic. Google Cloud Print-enabled and Apple AirPrint-enabled apps in contrast let you print only to a limited range of printers from selected manufacturers.The trend by businesses to minimise printing because of its expense was already well embedded before the arrival of the iPad, and in the end, Fernandes admits, mobile printing is not something that could revolutionise the printer industry; rather, it is just a new opportunity to displace part of it.However, Quocirca principal analyst Rob Bamforth believes that it is different with smartphones."They are much harder to use to read complex documents on and more about instant access. So you are not going to using a smartphone to read a complex document, and are more likely to want to access the cloud and print it."Rescaling info even on the iPhone's Retina display is never easy. And with Bluetooth and Wi-Fi capability built in to most smartphones printing should in theory be easy."Yet in the long run he believes that even this urge to print from smartphones will disappear, as over time interfaces will look more like social media timelines than the Word documents of today."So it is going to be more about accessing chunks or clusters of data than large complex documents and as a result the need to print will decrease, especially when there is a new generation that is used to the ebook format," Bamforth says.By contrast, Angèle Boyd believes that printing is not about to die any time soon. And the group vice-president for print, imaging and document solutions at International Data Corporation (IDC) has her own figures to back this up.In a survey of small to large companies carried out this year for the IDC's Hardcopy Usage program and Cloud Print study that has not yet been published, most respondents say that tablets and mobiles will not decrease the amount they print and, although small to lower-medium-sized companies are more likely than others to expect a decrease, upper-medium-sized companies are actually more likely to expect an increase in printing."Our research shows that business users are still a bit more likely to say they need print than not to need print," says Boyd. "Larger or complex documents are still often easier to review on paper, and many still see the printed document as the safer form of back-up, and some even feel it is more binding – though legally that is not necessarily the case."Indeed, US Healthcare has been moving to electronic medical and health records, yet this industry is showing the highest increase in print."Boyd even questions the very existence of a new generation of ebook fanatics waiting to get their hands on a tablet and forget paper."Frankly it is hard to say if the explosive growth in digital content shown by IDC research will be offset by growth in youth in workforce and greater use of tablets," she says."After all, cloud printing remains hard to use and fears remain about wireless security, so not everything is going to be moving to the cloud – so the need to support a hybrid print world will continue for some time. Moreover, there is such an explosion in digital content creation that even if we don't print it all, some printing of such hugely growing content could actually drive print."The continuing challenge for any kind of print vendor – if they are to survive – is, she believes, to find growth opportunities large enough and growing fast enough to outrun any softness or decline in mainstream printing, and that may revolve around the potential to scan documents direct to the cloud.Peterson believes that although all this talk of cloud printing is great, it is not something to get too excited about, as it is simply what the printer manufacturers have to do just to stay in the game, and that emailing documents to a printer will soon be like trying to light a fire with stones.While he concedes that the number of smart devices sold may by sheer force of numbers increase the amount of printing, any real game changers will likely come from the third-party – and in the future – open-source apps.One day, he believes, we will look back at Google cloud printing and see it as a rudimentary vision of the future, almost as the baby blocks of what is to come.• Mark Piesing a freelance journalist and teacher based in Oxford. He blogs atmarkpiesing.com• Read more about the future of printing and how to save money in everyday life atLive Life For Less
Full-frontal nudity, bastard children, regicide, rape and a sex-crazed dwarf.Ring any bells?Fans of HBO's returning fantasy epicGame of Throneswill findThe Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings(Xbox 360/PC) more than a little familiar in setting, tone and subject matter. Both take place in a world at war over the indiscretions of kings and queens, deal unashamedly – some would say gratuitously – in brutal violence, betrayal andbare heaving breasts, and plunge their heroes into moral quandaries from which it is impossible to emerge untarnished.Both also began life as a series of novels, though of differing degrees of fame. The originalThe Witcher, released in 2007 exclusively for PC, welcomed role-playing gamers to the world of Polish authorAndrzej Sapkowski. Unlike Game of Thrones, which built onGeorge R R Martin's already bestselling A Song of Ice and Fire franchise and the well-established reputation of HBO, the first Witcher title was a collaboration between unknowns: few outside of Poland had read Sapkowski's books, and fewer still had heard of development studio CD Projekt RED. Yet The Witcher was a success story, thanks largely to a similar blend of murky morality, gripping storytelling and the willingness to whip off buxom female characters' clothes every four-and-a-half seconds – and somehow make us feel sophisticated while doing so.Due to a seriously staggered release schedule, Xbox 360 owners will discover the sequel this month nearly a year after PC gamers first got to grips with it, but – withnew cutscenes, characters and locations– the wait looks to have been worth it.The Witcher 2 fills a hole in the roleplaying game market for unashamedly adult adventuring. It takes place in a realm beyond good and evil. The hero – monster-hunting mutant Geralt of Rivia – has an uncanny knack for finding himself in dilemmas with no right answer. Decisions in more conventional RPGs tend to offer only cartoonish notions of morality. Choices tend to be either absurdly altruistic ("Save the children?") or inexplicably cruel ("Set fire to them?") with an occasional neutral option thrown in as a half-baked afterthought ("Save them, then set fire to them?"). Geralt's problems are less clear-cut – let a murderer flee so that innocents will live, for example, or bring him to justice at the cost of more innocent lives? There are many different paths through the game, but none are wholly righteous, and none villainous.One thing all paths have in common is that they're hard. In fact, even on the normal difficulty, I lost count of the number of times I ended up at the "Game Over" screen just playing through the game's short prologue. First, I died – about eight times, in one of the very first fights – because I attacked a group of soldiers head-on, which in The Witcher 2 is nothing short of suicide. Then I died because I didn't run fast enough from a dragon. Moments later, a prison guard punched my lights out in a fist-fight. And finally I died a good five more times to a group of armoured soldiers, before eventually defeating them with the classic roll-around-them-in-circles-firing-tiny-fireballs tactic. Which, while effective, is a style of combat suited more to magical clowns than monster slayers.The unforgiving difficulty of the prologue, though, sets the tone for a game that refuses to hold the player's hand. The designers trust you to make your own decisions – both in the gameplay and story – – and live or die with the consequences. This maturity of design, coupled with somegorgeous cutscenes, stunning vistas and exquisitely detailed locations makes for what could well be a serious contender for role-playing game of the year.
A selection of 26 new apps for you today. 26!InstagramApps Rush has one day off, and photo-sharing app Instagram not only launches on Android, but racks up 1m downloads in its first day on Google's Play store. It has the same filters and sharing to social networks, although the tilt-shift feature is coming in a future update. There has been some isolated grumbling on Twitter from iPhone users complaining about the Android extension, but that's bonkers: they can expect their networks on Instagram to grow rapidly as friends who were shut out before get on it.AndroidFigurePropellerhead Software makes the ReBirth software (and app), which is used by professional music-makers to create squelchy acid tunes. It's a bit intimidating for casual music fans though. Figure is for them, but from the same company. It gets you to make songs with drums, bass and lead synth using an intuitive touchscreen user interface: "no previous playing skills required". And seriously, today's Apps Rush is being posted about 30 minutes late due to Figure's addictive qualities. Sorry about that.iPhoneIce Age VillageGameloft has turned the Ice Age films into a free-to-play iOS app in the town-building genre: thw town here being a new village with Manny, Ellie, Diego and Sid from the films. There are social features, but its use of in-app payments may be controversial for some parents, given its likely-youthful target audience.iPhone / iPadNext IssueNext Issue is a US thing at the moment, but it's very important for the magazine industry, providing Spotify-style subscriptions for digital magazines, with one monthly fee getting you unlimited access to mags including Elle, Fortune, Glamour, Sports Illustrated, Time, Vanity Fair and Esquire.AndroidDiscovery News for iPhoneBroadcaster Discovery has launched a new iPhone news app, pulling together news articles, video reports and special features. It promises more than 300 stories a month, as well as a "Discovernator" feature to generate random facts.iPhoneNational Geographic TodayAlso good for people wanting to know more about the world, National Geographic's new iPad app offers daily news, videos, quizzes, articles and full-screen photography.iPadPepperPepper is a bit Songkick-meets-Foursquare: a social app for live music fans to find out about gigs near them, share details with friends and then check in at the events to share photos and comments. It's comparable to Flowd, an existing app which has a similar focus. Pepper is starting on Windows Phone, but iOS, Android and BlackBerry versions are on the way.Windows PhoneCivilization RevolutionWindows Phone owners can now get their thumbs on the excellent mobile version of strategy game Civilization. As ever, it involves building your tribe through the millennia, with war, trade and diplomacy all figuring large.Windows PhoneSIGN Autism Patient GuideThis app is the work of the Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network, providing guidelines for parents and carers of children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), as well as a section for those young people explaining what ASD is and what can help.AndroidThe Times Cryptic Crossword Volume IIThe Times brings its second volume of cryptic crossword puzzles to iPhone, offering 50 more to solve, plus clues and an anagram-solver for people who need a little help.iPhoneThe Times Concise Crossword Volume IIBecause even with clues and anagram-help, some of us are just never going to solve a cryptic crossword, let's be honest.iPhoneAvengers vs. X-Men #1Not a standalone app, per se, but a new digital comic being distributed through Marvel Comics' iOS app. It's the first of the company's "Infinite Comics", which it says are "hand-drawn specifically to take over the entire screen".iPhone / iPadDim Sum WarriorsTalking of innovative comic book-apps, this one from Yumcha Studios aims to help Chinese people learn English, and vice versa. The idea: "language learning with voiceovers, instant translations and hanyu pinyin pronunciation guides". Oh, and it stars "a bunch of crazy kung fu-fighting Chinese snacks", which can't be bad.iPadNoyo Spanish Vocab BuilderMore language-learning here, with Noyo. It includes more than 1,800 Spanish words and phrases presented in 194 illustrated scenes, and audio from a Spanish-speaking voice artist. The words are grouped into themed units: food, travel, the city, house and home, seasons, animals, school and sports.iPadPeppa Pig - Happy Mrs ChickenP2 Games has taken its Peppa Pig games to Android, starting with this collection of four mini-games and a digital sticker book. It's the first of several titles making the leap from the company, which hassold more than 600,000 gameson iOS.AndroidBasket BuddyDaily deals community HUKD has launched an app to help British smartphone owners find deals on groceries. It aggregates deals, coupons, discounts and freebies from retailers across the country.iPhoneParallel MafiaHere's the latest location-based mobile game with a social twist. Made by the developer of mobile MMO Parallel Kingdoms, this sees you completing jobs, running businesses and building a mobbish reputation.Android / iPhone / iPadTitanic 2012Another app for the anniversary of the Titanic's sinking, this one ties into the TV series of the same name. The idea: "to extend the experience of the show into the hands of the audience, allowing them to dig deeper into the story and characters they love while accessing extra exclusive content and learning about the historical background behind the stories".iPadHorton Hatches the Egg - Dr. SeussThe latest Dr. Seuss book-app for iOS and Android features Horton the elephant, who looks after an egg through all manner of trials and tribulations. Voice narration and word-highlighting aims to help young children learning to read, as with other book-apps in the series.Android / iPhone / iPadBumping BearsHere's another freemium game for iOS with a cuddly theme – in this case, raising "adorable bears who live on donuts". The idea being to customise their outfits and level them up in 30 different professions. IAP is where the game makes its money, so parents should be on top of their settings before handing the device over to their kids.iPhone / iPadMe to You: Colour and Sticker FunAlligator Books' new iOS app features "Tatty Teddy" in a series of scenes to be digitally coloured in by children, before making virtual stickers that can be saved, shared and printed.iPhone / iPadCafeteria NipponicaGood news for gamers who can't get enough of Japanese developer Kairosoft's simulation games: a new one has gone live on Android. Cafeteria Nipponica takes its formula to the restaurants industry, hiring staff, finding ingredients and kitting out your establishments.AndroidTetris – New - Compliments of BlackBerryBlackBerry owners have a Tetrimino-shaped treat this week: a free copy of Tetris, compliments of Research In Motion until the end of May.BlackBerryRobert Walters Job SearchRecruitment consultancy Robert Walters has a new app for iPhone to help people search its dabatase and apply for jobs from their phones. It taps people's LinkedIn profiles to create their CVs, which is an innovative touch. Chelsea Apps Factory is the developer responsible.iPhoneMy Bic LighterRemember the days when virtual lighters were heating up Apple's App Store. They still might be: Bic's official app has done 1.9m iOS downloads. Now it's on Android too, with a choice of 15 branded digital lighters to wave in the air like  you just don't care.AndroidThe Witcher 2 Interactive Comic BookMore comic book-appery here, in advance of the release of the Xbox 360 game The Witcher 2. The idea being that players can learn about the game's hero and his enemies before playing the game.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 4 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle's Page: Apple's Android Pique 'For Show' &gt;&gt; BusinessweekLatest interview with Larry Page.Flashback trojan reportedly controls half a million Macs and counting &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"According to Dr. Web, the 57 percent of the infected Macs are located in the US and 20 percent are in Canada. Like older versions of the malware, the latest Flashback variant searches an infected Mac for a number of antivirus applications before generating a list of botnet control servers and beginning the process of checking in with them. Now that the fix for the Java vulnerability is out, however, there's no excuse not to update--the malware installs itself after you visit a compromised or malicious webpage, so if you're on the Internet, you're potentially at risk."Silicon Valley has Facebook's back in Yahoo knife fight &gt;&gt; CNET News"For many in the technology business, this is just the latest chapter in a battle that most would like to see wrap up -- and quickly as possible, please. But since Yahoo was first to loose its lawyers, there's no shortage of critics in Silicon Valley who fault the company's tactics and strategy."Google Begins Testing Its Augmented-Reality Glasses &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comOn Wednesday, Google gave people a clearer picture of its secret initiative called Project Glass. The glasses are the company's first venture into wearable computing.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Get up to any gaming pleasure last night? Tell us all about it, right now!
Amazon.co.uk, Britain's biggest online retailer, generated sales of more than £3.3bn in the country last year but paid no corporation tax on any of the profits from that income – and is under investigation by the UK tax authorities.Regulatory filings by parent company Amazon.com with the US securities and exchange commission (SEC) show the tax inquiry into the UK operation, which sells nearly one in four books sold in Britain, focuses on a period when ownership of the British business was transferred to a Luxembourg company.The SEC filings, highlighted by Bookseller magazine, show that in the past three years, Amazon has generated sales of more than £7.6bn in the UK without attracting any corporation tax on the profits from those sales.HM Revenue &amp; Customs (HMRC) refused to confirm it was investigating Amazon.co.uk, and its inquiries could be a routine audit. But Amazon's tax affairs are being investigated in the US, China, Germany, France, Japan and Luxembourg.Amazon, which launched in the UK in 1998, is the UK's most popular retail website, with more visitors than Argos, Next and Tesco. It sells a vast array of goods other than books and recently won an award for offering the best customer service in the UK.But the business that people voted for is not British-owned. The UK operation avoids tax as the ownership of the main Amazon.co.uk business was transferred to a Luxembourg company in 2006. The UK business is now owned by Amazon EU Sarl and the UK operation is classed only as an "order fulfilment" business. All payments for books, DVDs and other goods go directly to Luxembourg. The UK business is simply a delivery organisation.The latest 2010 accounts for Amazon EU Sarl show the Luxembourg office employed just 134 people, but generated turnover of €7.5bn (£6.5bn). In the same year, the UK operation employed 2,265 people and reported a turnover of just £147m. According to the SEC filings, UK sales that year were between £2.3bn and £3.2bn. Amazon in the US has earned an average 3.5% profit margin over the past three years.UK sales over the past three years, according to the SEC filings, were between £7.6bn and £10.3bn. If the same profit margin was applied, this would have generated taxable profits of £266m-£360m and yielded notional UK corporation tax of up to £100m.However, in the nine years between 2003 and 2011, the UK-registered company has reported a cumulative net tax bill of just £3m – of which £1.9m was incurred in 2011. This is not the tax actually paid to HMRC; that information is not available because the UK company is not required to produce a cash flow statement.The Guardian asked Amazon why it paid no UK corporation tax on the £3bn it takes out of the economy. The company declined to answer any specific questions on its tax affairs. Instead, in an email, it said: "Amazon EU serves tens of millions of customers and sellers throughout Europe from multiple consumer websites in a number of languages, dispatching products to all 27 countries in the EU. We have a single European headquarters in Luxembourg with hundreds of employees to manage this complex operation."Richard Murphy, of the Tax Justice Network, said rewriting tax rules to prevent arrangements such as those used by Amazon.co.uk would be a huge task. "The key issue is, what is sold here and what is sold 'into' here? The answer is to deem distance sellers [as] resident in the UK with regard to their sales made here. That would be a big issue to take on."Amazon would not comment on why it switched ownership of the UK business to Luxembourg in a complex manoeuvre that saw the UK company's shares change hands four times. However, the US parent company has suggested it may have been done to reduce the group's tax bill. In a 2006 SEC filing, the company referred to "establishing our European headquarters in Luxembourg, which we expect will benefit our effective tax rate over time".Amazon's UK operations are also poised to benefit from Luxembourg ownership in the battle for the lucrative and fast-growing ebook market. Being based in Luxembourg means it can charge VAT on ebook sales at the local rate of 3% rather than the 20% VAT imposed on British-based ebook retailers.In its most recent SEC annual filing, Amazon admits: "The effective tax rate in 2011, 2010, and 2009 was lower than the 35% US federal statutory rate primarily due to earnings of our subsidiaries outside of the US in jurisdictions where our effective tax rate is lower than in the US. Such earnings primarily relate to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg."Amazon is currently disputing a tax bill of nearly £1bn imposed by US authorities relating to transfer pricing – a mechanism used by multinationals to trade goods and services among group companies.It is also under fire in the US as it does not collect any sales taxes on products sold in states where it does not have an office or warehouse. It is believed to only collect sales tax in five states, but other states are now planning to alter state legislation to impose the sales tax on the company.
Amazon's founder, Jeff Bezos, has always taken a keen interest in tax planning. From the beginning, loopholes were a key part of Amazon's ability to undercut rivals on price. When setting up the company, Bezos even considered basing it on an American Indian reservation near San Francisco to exploit state tax loopholes.The world's largest internet retailer collects sales taxes from only five American states, exploiting a 1992 court ruling that US businesses without a physical presence – such as a shop or warehouse – in a state cannot be required to collect its sales tax. Amazon has a map of the US with each state coloured red, yellow or green. Executives travelling to red states need company permission before entering, in case their actions trigger laws that force Amazon to collect taxes there.Amazon's UK managing director, Christopher North, said in a recent radio interview that while the company benefits from low corporation tax by being based in Luxembourg, it pays Britain's 20% value added tax  rate."The products we sell and ship to customers we pay the UK VAT rate," said North.But he conceded that this only applies to physical products – and books are zero-rated. Tax on ebooks is at the rate set by Luxembourg, which has defied European guidance. Instead of charging tax at the national VAT rate, it takes only 3%, on the grounds that, like printed books, electronic publications are of cultural significance.This matters because sales of ebooks are soaring. Worldwide, Amazon now sells 115 ebooks for every 100 paperbacks. About 1.3m ereaders were bought in the UK this Christmas, according to pollster YouGov, and 95% of them were Kindles made by Amazon.In the UK, trade title the Bookseller estimates that Amazon controls at least 70% of the ebook market, which will be worth an estimated £500m in 2012, up from £150m last year.The British government is being lobbied to lower VAT on ebooks to zero, in line with printed titles, which are sold free of tax. "This is the year to get VAT sorted," says the Bookseller's deputy editor, Philip Jones. "In 2012 it becomes a big number that is handed over to the Treasury, or not, in&nbsp;Amazon's case."A zero rate would overnight hand British retailers such as Waterstones and smaller independent bookshops a 3% price edge on Amazon and the second largest UK ebook seller, Apple's iTunes, which also has its European headquarters in Luxembourg.Amazon was founded in 1995 as an online bookstore, but "media" sales have formed the smaller slice of its revenues since 2010. Last year, worldwide media sales grew 20% to $17.8bn (£11.2bn), but sales of other merchandise were up a staggering 56% to $28.7bn. It now makes more money from selling a panoply of nappies, TVs and golf clubs than it does from reading material, videos and music.Amazon has used acquisitions to diversify, spending $540m on baby supplies store diapers.com, snapping up America's largest shoe etailer, Zappos, and Woot, a site offering daily deals on everything from T-shirts to wine.Diversification has had spectacular results. Net sales rose 41% to $48bn in 2011. Amazon now has 164 million active registered account holders. Even its sideline data-hosting business – renting out server space to other firms – is one of&nbsp;the world's largest.
It would have taken the most eagle-eyed reader to spot the introduction of a single, but hugely significant, word into Amazon.co.uk Limited's annual accounts in 2006. For the first time, the word "fulfilment" was introduced into the description of the company's activities. What would not have been apparent was that this single word marked a new role for Britain under the new ownership in Luxembourg.In a highly complex transaction, hidden from readers of the statutory accounts, Amazon.co.uk was passed in February 2006 by Amazon.com International Sales Inc to Amazon Europe Holding Technologies SCS, which owned it for a day before selling it to Amazon EU Sarl for €62m (£52m). Amazon.com Inc, the US master company, had already withdrawn its interest in the UK operation when it transferred its holding in December 2005.The practical effect of this change of ownership, notified to shareholders in the 2007 accounts, was to reduce the UK business to little more than a delivery service. From 2006, sales made in Britain were billed from Luxembourg and any profits from those sales were taxed not in Britain but in Luxembourg. To emphasise the impact of this, the accounts for Amazon EU Sarl show it employed 134 people in 2010 and generated turnover of € 7.5bn. Amazon.co.uk, employing 2,265 people, turned over only £147m in the same year.Amazon EU Sarl's total sales have reached €23bn and turnover in 2010, the last year for which published accounts are available in Luxembourg, was €7.5bn. Despite this dramatic growth, Amazon EU has not enjoyed enormous profitability. But given that the creation of Amazon EU appears to have been designed to bring down the tax rate applied to the Amazon group profits, this is perhaps not surprising.At first glance, the corporation tax rates in Luxembourg and the UK are similar, but the Luxembourg authorities have a different view of costs that can be offset against income, which reduces taxable profit. So Amazon EU Sarl's €7.5bn of income in 2010 was almost entirely offset by €7.4bn of charges, enabling it to disclose a tax charge of just €5.5m. The charges are defined by the company as the "cost of product sales and other ongoing costs related to the operations of the company".Amazon EU Sarl has reported profits of just €55m on its €23bn sales, on which it has declared net tax of only €15m. This low profitability has not stopped Amazon EU growing to become a business of considerable substance. Net assets were almost €4bn at the end of 2010 - , about four times the 2006 value. The company has amassed more than €2bn in cash and high quality investments and has been the vehicle which has financed several group acquisitions. It financed the purchase of LoveFilm; is a 50% investor in Joyo, a Chinese online retail joint venture; and bought 100% of Joyo.com, a British Virgin Islands company, for €105m in 2010.This is in stark contrast to the performance of the UK fulfilment business which filed its 2011 accounts last month. For the first time since 2006, Amazon.co.uk Limited posted an after-tax profit of £1.2m, much better than the £3m after-tax loss reported a year earlier. The accounts show its turnover was £208m, a big improvement on the £147m recorded in 2010 but dwarfed by the £3.3bn of UK sales passed to Luxembourg.The company reported a relatively large tax charge of £1.9m. To put that into context, in the eight years between 2003 and 2010, the UK company reported a cumulative net tax bill of £1.1m – half incurred in 2010. This is not tax actually paid to HMRC; that information is not available because the UK company is not required to produce a cash flow statement. Unlike its asset-rich owner, the UK company had net assets worth only £61m at the end of 2011 despite fixed assets increasing by 145% to £109m. The company is overdrawn at the bank to the tune of £460,000.Amazon.co.uk attributes its growth in turnover to its continued support for the growth of the group. However, it is supporting, indirectly, the group in other ways. By giving up its UK sales to Luxembourg, it has helped to dramatically cut the tax rate of the US master company: in 2006, Amazon's effective US rate hit 49.6% but, in every subsequent year, the effective US tax rate has been below the statutory 35%.
May the farce be with you.  While recentlyreviewing the excellent Kinect Rush, I questioned whether Kinect could handle anything more than bite-sized challenges. Well, if any release demanded a triumphant answer to that question, this is it. Kinect Star Wars had the potential to be the ultimate controller-free game. Imagine swinging that imaginary lightsaber around or force pushing your enemies over cliffs – it sounds like the perfect marriage of device and drama.But if only it had worked in reality. Because Kinect Star Wars is a bit of a Jar Jar Binks, I'm afraid – tolerable in small doses but hardly what you'd choose to epitomise either Kinect or Star Wars at its best. It's not a bad game – indeed, parts of it work rather well and there's plenty of variety to the challenges – but you have to wonder why the developers didn't pick fewer genres to mimic and do a better job on each of them.There are five modes: Dark Side Rising, Podracing, Rancor Rampage, Duels of Fate and Galactic Dance Off. They're all passable mini-games in their own right, and the graphics, animations and sound effects are largely impressive throughout. The trouble is that all these genres have been far better executed in other games and the inclusion of a short single player campaign only enforces how disjointed the whole experience feels. Jedi Destiny features three chapters, largely played out on rails and mainly featuring identikit battles with roomfuls of droids. However, these are interspersed with some excellent movie-like interludes, where you can escape a Sarlacc or attack an Imperial base (though not the Death Star).These scenes are strung together by C3PO and R2D2 with a tenuous storyline about Jedi archives. And although it's littered with Star Wars cameos, as far as I can tell none of the real actors provided their voices.But the biggest problem with Kinect Star Wars is Kinect itself – or, at least, how the developers have managed to implement it. Putting paid to the advertising slogan "you are the controller", some sections will reduce players to flaying around in slow motion as if they had been shot by a taser. Let's start in the obvious place with the duels and those lightsabers – simply hold your arms in front and swing, right? Wrong. These lengthy and repetitive challenges consist of two distinct phases – swishing the lightsaber with one hand, and making force gestures with the other.The latter is harder to pull off, with Kinect struggling to recognise your gestures, so although somersaulting over enemies with a jump works fine, leaning forward while extending your arms rarely performs the promised force rush. The lightsaber attacks work better if you're ponderously slow and precise with your movements – block here, attack there – just don't try doing them in quick succession and don't expect much in the way of intelligent opponents – at least, not until you get to the beefier bosses including Darth Vader himself. Another problem particularly noticeable during duels is lag – even where Kinect recognises the gesture, the onscreen reaction rarely feels as quick or concussive as the carefully edited TV ads would have you believe.Things look and work much better in the pod racing sections, with control down to extending and pulling arms for steering. But again the developers have shoe-horned in a bunch of useless gestures, such as wiping your goggles or waving to repel other racers, all of which makes it almost impossible to steer. Such unnecessary complexity undermines what is otherwise some thrilling and responsive racing action. Being a Rancor is also undeniably fun – largely because your job of destroying anything in your path by stomping, smashing or hurling boulders demands neither speed nor precision.But the biggest surprise falls to the silliest idea in the game. Yes, I know a dance game featuring Darth Vader squaring off against Princess Leia sounds little short of sacrilege to Jedi fans, yet as a game it's both responsive and amusing, with moves that the Kinect can at least recognise.Of course, like all the other mini games, it's not a patch on the best in genre, in this case Dance Central, but it's great fun to play and shows that if the developers had played the whole thing for laughs they might have fared better.Ultimately, high production values and variety raises Kinect Star Wars above mediocrity, but it only delivers tantalising glimpses of the kind of game both the controller and the franchise badly needed.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360 with Kinect
The old "if it ain't broke …" principle has never really applied to EA Sports' long-term franchises. A tweak here, a new mode there and Tiger Woods PGA Tour 13 is no different. Some of the tweaks – connectivity with Kinect and PS Move – are expected and mostly satisfactory. Some, inevitably, are not. And some fall somewhere in between.The biggest change in this 13th incarnation is total swing control. While it's frankly a bugger to get to grips with (expect many humiliating losses in your first week of playing) the system rewards patience and does what the name suggests: you have total control over how you approach and strike the ball, from club to stance, even to the part of the ball you hit, with assistance from complex swing meters and your caddy, if required. Mastery of this aspect is perhaps the closest any game will come to imitating the real game, right down to the swearing. To get the most out of Tiger Woods 13, you will need to put the hours in.Game modes are mostly what you'd expect. The Masters is here in its customary style, online gaming gets a tweak with the ability to set up your own country club (and yes, you can invite your friends in and keep the undesirables out), and the single player mode is as in-depth and lengthy as ever. There's also a wealth of downloadable content although the reward system that gives you access to this – you earn (or buy) coins as you play – means many, many hours to earn enough to unlock and play certain courses.The "novelty" mode is called Legacy, where you get to experience key moments in Tiger's career. And no, before you ask, not those moments … The golfing key moments is a decent idea but the execution suggests that Tiger's recent lack of success has seen a marked reduction in the game's budget. You do get narration from the man himself but a few minutes of his monotone makes you realise just why commentators get paid the big bucks.Motion control wise, Kinect works well (and better than Move by most accounts) on the big strokes, less so on the more sensitive approach and putt aspects of the game. That takes practice … anyone see a pattern emerging here?Overall, Tiger Woods PGA Tour 13 is a solid enough title – but it's certainly not a game for the casual console golfer.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Yahoo has announced a massive round of layoffs as the troubled internet company struggles to turn around its fortunes.In a statement, the company confirmed earlier reports that it was cutting 2,000 jobs, about 14% of its workforce. It is the sixth mass layoff in the past four years for the beleaguered company."Today's actions are an important next step toward a bold, new Yahoo – smaller, nimbler, more profitable and better equipped to innovate as fast as our customers and our industry require," chief executive Scott Thompson said in a statement."Our goal is to get back to our core purpose – putting our users and advertisers first – and we are moving aggressively to achieve that goal.''Yahoo is still one of the most popular websites but has struggled to keep up with the growth of rivals Google and Facebook. Facebook last year surpassed Yahoo as the largest online display advertising carrier in the US.Yahoo has recently announced a series of management overhauls, appointing the former PayPal chief executive Thompson as chief executive in January after a high profile bust-up with former boss Carol Bartz.The company has been in protracted negotiations about a possible sale of assets including its share in the Chinese internet company Alibaba but talks collapsed earlier this year.The cuts will be made across the board. Rich Riley, the managing director of Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), emailed staff ahead of the meetings to outline some of the changes that will be taking place. Yahoo's EMEA headquarters in Switzerland will be cut back as part of a move to "transition more resources to being country specific as opposed to regional".Riley wrote that this would give Yahoo the chance to put more senior executives in local markets to better engage with customers. He made it clear that large scale cuts were on the cards in the EMEA region, saying that the plan across Yahoo was to flatten org[anisational] structures.He also added that Yahoo would consider other ways to gain efficiencies and speed.Yahoo, which derives a vast amount of its more than $4bn (£2.5bn) in annual revenues from advertising, is to review its sales operation.Riley said it was likely that different operations within sales would be merged, with a specific reference to a reduction of the company's business in Barcelona. He also pointed to significant cuts at its advertising and account management operation."We plan to evolve our definition of the various roles involved in delivering our display advertising business," he wrote. "We think there are opportunities to make this process more efficient, faster and to better serve our advertisers."I do believe that our company has to change to compete and grow, and that these changes are a necessity."The move comes after major Yahoo shareholder Third Point launched a campaign to oust Yahoo's management in a bid to revive a company that, according to its recent letter to Thompson, has been "languishing for years".Yahoo is also embroiled in a legal dispute with Facebook over technology patents. Yahoo sued Facebook last month, accusing the social network firm of violating its patents. Facebook countersued this week, accusing Yahoo of violating patents that cover display advertising, content personalisation and photo sharing that accounted for about 80% of Yahoo's revenue last year.
It is not tactics, it is the fear that drives you together. Trapped within the bowels of the Hadley's Hope base on LV 426, with just five other marines and a whole lot of darkness, no one wants to be left alone. And believe us, in space,everyonecan hear you scream.Gearbox Software is currently putting the finishing touches to its horribly authentic Aliens tie-in and we've made our first acquaintance with the game's extensive multiplayer mode. Or at least a small part of it. With E3 looming, Gearbox is only showing one map – Last Hope – and one mode, Team Deathmatch. Apparently there will be several other options, most of them objective based, and all specifically designed to explore the asynchronous nature of the gameplay. This is all about marines v aliens, of course – players can opt for either side, both offering their own abilities, attacks and progression systems. But essentially, you're either the hunter or the hunted.I played several games as a marine (Gearbox staffers took care of the alien side all day during our preview), and already it's a fraught, frantic and often terrifying experience. The level takes place in a wrecked section of Hadley's Hope, a multi-levelled hell hole of blind corridors, steel walkways and open cargo bays. Amid the darkness, aliens pour in through ventilation shafts, clinging to ceilings and walls, and making slashing attacks at their human prey. Hitting the left bumper button on an Xbox pad brings up the motion detector, an exact replica of the movie device, allowing you to spot incoming xenomorphs – but at the price of lowering your weapon, leaving you scarily vulnerable.We had three load-outs to call on, each consisting of a primary weapon and a pistol. The pulse rifle is basically a sub-machine gun, offering a fast rate of fire, but not much accuracy; the assault rifle is an M16 derivative with burst fire and greater precision; and then there's the pump-action shotgun, which causes exactly the sort of close-range carnage you expect and demand. Indeed, in this game, against an enemy that only kills through melee attacks and has no projectile option, this usually niche option really comes into its own.Each weapon also has a secondary fire option. In our demo, the pulse rifle and pump-action both featured grenade launchers, while the assault rifle had an underslung shotgun. There will be more firearms and secondary options in the final game but Gearbox isn't saying much apart from that it will be introducing some of its own newcomers. The flame-thrower is definitely in there, and while glancing at some concept art on the walls at Gearbox's office in Dallas (more on that another time), I saw references to M83 grenade rounds, M3A SMGs and a Neusturmgewehr 23 rifle … whatever the heck that is.So anyway, this is a game about running through the darkness wildly shooting at beasts that attack quickly and often in packs. There were two main alien types in our demo: the tougher soldiers, based on the xenomrophs from Aliens, and the lurkers, styled more around the lone creature from the first Alien movie, offering more agility and deadly lunge attacks, but less health. Aliens also have a kind of heat sensitive vision which layers the screen in a greenish hue, showing the outline of nearby marines even through walls.The fact that aliens always know where you are, and can scale every surface, radically changes the tactics for marines. You can't hide, you can't camp and you can't go it alone. Indeed, you probably won't want to. Within 20 seconds of our first game, journalists were instinctively huddling their characters together, not really out of strategic necessity, but out of fear – you don't want to be alone in there. During the game the Gearbox staff are regularly shouting "stray sheep", whenever they spot an isolated marine – they then work together to pick him off.And there's more. When downed, Alien corpses continue to spray acid and walking past a body can burn a marine, causing a steady reduction in health. At certain points in each bout, the aliens are also able to spawn a more powerful xenomorph breed, which the nearest player can then take control of. On our map it's a crusher – a gigantic, muscular ox-like beast with a butting head and super-fast charge attacks. It's an interesting system, like scoring a killstreak in CoD, and it ups the tempo of the action considerably as marines frantically pound the monster with gunfire (allowing other aliens to sneak up unchallenged).To even things up for the humans, each map has weapon pick-up points offering more powerful hardware. In Last hope, there's a smart gun, which provides its own HuD highlighting nearby enemies and auto-targetting anything that moves and bleeds acid. The ammo clip only holds out for a few frenzied seconds, but its enough to get multiple highly satisfying kills.For the most part though, the atmosphere is that of James Cameron's movie: terror and panic. The audio is perfect here – we get the skittish modulating noise of the pulse rifles and the haunting analogue bleeping of the motion detector. Brilliantly, you can hear the detectors being used by other players so you have this quiet symphony of pulsing bleeps – and when they all start to quicken, the tension is palpable. Whenever a marine is attacked, his gutteral screams echo through the facility, so that there's a constant soundscape of violent death.Gearbox isn't saying anything about the progression system now, but we seem to be looking at something very similar to Modern Warfare. Marines earn both XP and cash for assists and kills, and at the end of a bout, it looks like you rank up based on your proficiency with specific weapons, unlocking new guns and upgrades as you go.Each primary firearm has four customisation slots, and the onscreen icons suggest different types of ammo and new underslung extras are among the options. It also appears that there are two slots for clothing – perhaps allowing you to buy better body armour. Intriguingly, any XP you earn in multipayer also affects your Campaign character, and vice versa, so there is a close sense of integration between the two modes.Aliens, meanwhile, appear to have six more organically focused custom slots – perhaps allowing you to run faster or swipe with more damage potential. Perhaps because of their ability to run along walls and ceilings, the xenos are controlled in third-person, counteracting the disorientation felt while controlling these monsters in Rebellion's Aliens vs Predator game.Visually, this is an incredibly accurate approximation of the Aliens' world. The whole environment is bathed in a deep, low blue light, providing little in the way of illumination against the mostly black walls and floors. Shafts of white light stream in through air vents, while red warning signs flash, and water trickles ceaselessly in through ceiling fans. Essentially, it's like stepping into the movie environment – unsurprising, as both Ridley Scott and Alien concept artist Syd Mead were consulted during the development process. For Alien fanatics it'll be a breathtaking experience.A question mark always hangs over the longevity of asynchronous multiplayer modes. Will there be enough left in the experience after the novelty of playing as aliens wears off? And will players eventually happen upon exploits and weaknesses in one of the species that render online competition hopelessly one-sided? It's difficult to tell. Certainly, Gearbox Software, which started out making mods and updates for Half-Life and has since crafted stellar shooters like Brothers in Arms and Borderlands, knows what it's doing in this sector.The meat of this whole thing could be the supposedly innovative objective modes we haven't seen. Personally, I'm hoping for Capture the Facehugger, in which two teams of marines have to chase the spider-like beast through the Sulaco without being impregnated. I have more ideas like this, Gearbox, if you're reading...• Aliens Colonial Marines will be released on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 this autumn
Yahoo is set to make cutbacks at its European headquarters and devolve more power to individual country operations, with hundreds of jobs set to go across the region as part of a move to "flatten" the structure of the internet giant.A series of meetings are set to be held later on Wednesday, where staff in each of Yahoo's offices around the world will be informed about the extent of the cuts and a new organisational structure.It has beenreported that up to 2,000of Yahoo's 14,000 global staff could be affected. The UK has started a 30-day consultation with staff, which means job losses will be between 20 and 99.Rich Riley, the managing director of Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), emailed staff ahead of the meetings to outline some of the changes that will be taking place. Yahoo's EMEA headquarters in Switzerland will be cut back as part of a move to "transition more resources to being country specific as opposed to regional".Riley wrote that this would give Yahoo the chance to put more senior executives in local markets to better engage with customers. He made it clear that large scale cuts were on the cards in the EMEA region, saying that the plan across Yahoo was to flatten org[anisational] structures.He also added that Yahoo would consider other ways to gain efficiencies and speed.Yahoo, which derives a vast amount of itsmore than $4bn (£2.5bn)in annual revenues from advertising, is to review its sales operation.Riley said it was likely that different operations within sales would be merged, with a specific reference to a reduction of the company's business in Barcelona.Riley also pointed to significant cuts at its advertising and account management operation."We plan to evolve our definition of the various roles involved in delivering our display advertising business," he wrote. "We think there are opportunities to make this process more efficient, faster and to better serve our advertisers."I do believe that our company has to change to compete and grow, and that these changes are a necessity."Riley said that an all hands meeting and a series of follow up functional meetings would take place on Wednesday afternoon to inform staff of the specifics of the plan.The company was unavailable for comment.
Refreshing a long-standing games franchise is always a notoriously delicate business and, true to form, Ridge Racer Unbounded has divided opinion. It's easy to see why: surely no game has adhered more rigidly to an unbending formula through countless iterations than Ridge Racer, the archetypal Japanese drift-racer.Ridge Racer Unbounded keeps the drifting but dumps everything else – especially the long, wide, generally elevated tracks and the stubborn refusal to countenance any form of damage to cars or environment. If you find that upsetting, don't buy it. But you'll be missing out on the most compelling version of the game since the original.There's another reason why Ridge Racer Unbounded has left some critics nonplussed: it's one of those rare games that refuses to pander to your ego. The first time you launch it, just one race is unlocked, and even in that the computer-controlled opponents' AI is cranked up to near-human levels of fiendishness. The aim of each race is to finish in the top three – you're awarded between one and three stars if you do so – but you swiftly learn that there are plenty of rewards to be had even if you trail around at the back of the field.Ridge Racer Unbounded takes many cues from Burnout and Split/Second. You have a Power meter that can be filled by drifting, catching air or slipstreaming cars, and when you deploy it, you don't just get a speed boost but will be able to take out other cars for its duration (which is denoted by two red slipstream tracks). Or you can head to points that the game points out, press it, and you will reshape the scenery, opening up shortcuts and generally causing carnage. Even without hitting the Power button, you can take out pretty much anything that is smaller than your car, such as concrete pillars, entire petrol stations and so on.Game modes are plentiful, varied and fun. There are so-called Shindo races, in which you can't take out other cars on the Power button, but which still include a speed-boost earned by drifting – the best way to win those is to treat them like conventional races and brake for corners rather than inducing drifts with the handbrake.Frag races invite you to destroy as many cop cars as possible within a given time, at the wheel of a truck. In Drift races, you earn extended time on the track by pulling off spectacular drifts, and Time Attack puts you on some insane stunt courses, studded with time-extending tokens. Unprecedentedly, there's not a duff mode among them.Shatter Bay, the fictional city in which Ridge Racer Unbounded takes place, is also glorious: a veritable toy box of destructibility with bags of character (and a few subtle nods to Ridge Racers of yore). And the single-player game's structure is impeccable: you open up new areas of the city (there are seven) by winning stars, but even if you end up well behind the top three, you still win points for trashing buildings, fragging cars, pulling off extra-long drifts and the like.These both enable you to level up – winning new cars and areas of the city with which you can tinker around in the editor – and open new races in each area. The aforementioned editor, which lets you build your own races and post them on the web, is a marvel to behold, and will delight any inveterate tinkerers. And the extensive and well structured online experience is quite similar to the single-player game, which is a big compliment to the AI.Of course, if the concept of drifting – scrub any excess speed with brake while keeping throttle on, turn in early, hit handbrake, apply opposite lock – is alien to you, then you will hate Ridge Racer Unbounded. And you do often come across deeply frustrating moments when just as you're about to take the chequered flag, a car behind frags you – something that will be familiar to devotees of Mario Kart.And you can dip out of then restart races if they aren't going well – any game that lets you do that ought to monitor the number of times you indulge and adjust its difficulty accordingly. But the frustrating moments in Ridge Racer Unbounded are far outweighed by the deeply satisfying ones. It's anarchic, well designed, thrilling to behold and will put a massive grin on any true petrol-head's face.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFacebook Threatens To Sue TechCrunch Commenter &gt;&gt; TechCrunchSeems fairly innocuous.Stratton tells us he received a four-page letter via FedEx on April 2nd which came from Facebook's lawyers, the Seattle-based firm Perkins Coie. Stratton, who's actually the founder of Feed.Us, says he's in "no way related to this Defaceable company," but confirms he made a comment on the TechCrunch article about Defaceable's software.A Comparison of Instagram for Android and iPhone &gt;&gt; The Next WebHipsters, go!How Apple and Google help police bypass iPhone, Android lock screens | Privacy Inc. - CNET NewsGoogle is stronger than Apple, according to CNet. Don't tell us that's not a surprise.Here are the 10 patents Facebook is suing Yahoo with &gt;&gt; ZDNet...And here's the details.Facebook countersues Yahoo over 10 patents &gt;&gt; ZDNetThe Menlo Park empire strikes back.Yahoo attacked Facebook with 10 patents, so Menlo Park has attacked Sunnyvale right back with 10 of its own. Get the popcorn; this is the biggest real-company-versus-patent-troll battle yet.Nokia Lumia 900 Review &gt;&gt; AllThingsDWalt Mossberg's take:Bottom line: If you're looking for a $100, high-end smartphone, or are a Windows Phone fan who has been waiting for better hardware, the Lumia 900 is worth considering. But the phone had just too many drawbacks in my tests to best its chief competitors.Lumia 900 review &gt;&gt; The VergeBookmark. By Joshua Topolsky.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Let's have some mid-week games chatter!
Yahoo is reportedly preparing to announce a massive round of layoffs as the troubled internet company struggles to turn around its fortunes.The search firm could announce up to 2,000 layoffs, according to tech blog All Things D, with an announcement to come as early as Wednesday. The company was unavailable for comment.Yahoo is still one of the most popular websites but struggling to keep up with the growth of rivals Google and Facebook. Facebook last year surpassed Yahoo as the largest online display advertising carrier in the US.Yahoo has recently announced a series of management overhauls, appointing the former PayPal chief executive Scott Thompson as chief executive in January after a high profile bust-up with former boss Carol Bartz. The company has been in protracted negotiations about a possible sale of assets including its share in the Chinese internet company Alibaba but talks collapsed earlier this year.Thompson is expected to make the announcement to staff on Wednesday morning, according to All Things D. Two thousand jobs would represent more than 14% of Yahoo's 14,000 staff worldwide. Cuts are expected to span Yahoo's business from marketing to mobile apps.Rich Riley, the managing director of Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), emailed staff ahead of the meetings to outline some of the changes that will be taking place. Yahoo's EMEA headquarters in Switzerland will be cut back as part of a move to "transition more resources to being country specific as opposed to regional".Riley wrote that this would give Yahoo the chance to put more senior executives in local markets to better engage with customers. He made it clear that large scale cuts were on the cards in the EMEA region, saying that the plan across Yahoo was to flatten org[anisational] structures.He also added that Yahoo would consider other ways to gain efficiencies and speed.Yahoo, which derives a vast amount of its more than $4bn (£2.5bn) in annual revenues from advertising, is to review its sales operation.Riley said it was likely that different operations within sales would be merged, with a specific reference to a reduction of the company's business in Barcelona. He also pointed to significant cuts at its advertising and account management operation."We plan to evolve our definition of the various roles involved in delivering our display advertising business," he wrote. "We think there are opportunities to make this process more efficient, faster and to better serve our advertisers."I do believe that our company has to change to compete and grow, and that these changes are a necessity."The move comes after major Yahoo shareholder Third Point launched a campaign to oust Yahoo's management in a bid to revive a company that, according to its recent letter to Thompson, has been "languishing for years".Yahoo is also embroiled in a legal dispute with Facebook over technology patents. Yahoo sued Facebook last month, accusing the social network firm of violating its patents. Facebook countersued this week, accusing Yahoo of violating patents that cover areas covering display advertising, content personalisation and photo sharing that accounted for about 80% of Yahoo's revenue last year.
Google is under growing threat of being charged with stifling competition by the European Commission, after TripAdvisor became the latest in a string of companies to file a complaint against the search giant.TripAdvisor has accused Google of anti-competitive and unfair behaviour, becoming the second travel company to do so in the past week after Expedia put forward its own concerns to European regulators.The company's complaints are backed by UK travel site lastminute.com, whose chief executive Matthew Crummack released a statement saying Google posed a serious threat to consumers and the principles of fair competition.EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia has said he will decide later this month whether to pursue Google.Almunia's investigators are due to report after Easter, at which point he could decide to drop the investigation, extend it or issue Google with a statement of objections, a process that can lead to demands to change behaviour and to sanctions like fines.TripAdvisor has not disclosed the nature of its submission to the commission in detail. In a brief statement, the company said it had filed a complaint with the European Commission to address anti-competitive and unfair practices by Google that harm the marketplace and consumer welfare.The company said: "We hope that the commission takes prompt corrective action to ensure a healthy and competitive online environment that will foster innovation across the internet."The commission has been investigating more than a dozen complaints against Google from rivals, including Microsoft, since November 2010, looking at claims that it discriminates against other services in its search results and manipulates them to promote its own products.TripAdvisor's hotel and restaurants review site competes with Google Places, which provides reviews and listings of local businesses."We continue to see them putting Google Places results higher in the search results – higher on the page than other natural search results," said Adam Medros, TripAdvisor's vice president for product, in February."What we are constantly vigilant about is that Google treats relevant content fairly."Online travel company Expedia has accused Google of violating European law. The Californian search company, which handles 95% of search queries in Europe, introduced a flight-search service last year.A lawyer for Expedia told a US Senate subcommittee in September that Google flights search excludes any link to online travel agencies, which hampers customers' comparison shopping.Crummack at lastminute.com called for a full investigation into Google's practices on travel, such as flight and hotel search, saying: "When a company of Google's scale and undeniable market dominance deploys tactics that mislead consumers and work to exclude competition in vertical search services, it poses a very serious threat to consumers and the principles of fair competition."Google said it was working closely with the commission to explain how its business works, stating: "We haven't seen this complaint yet, but we will continue to discuss any concerns with the commission, knowing that there's always room for improvement."
When news emerged last year that a second instalment for Radical Entertainment's superhero stompfest Prototype was in the pipeline for 2012, it raised more than a few wry eyebrows. After all, at a glance Prototype isn't the most likely candidate for a sequel.It wasn't considered by many reviewers to be the best free-running open-world game of that year – that accolade went to Assassin's Creed II. It wasn't praised as the best superhero game of that year, either – those bragging rights were snagged by Batman: Arkham Asylum.In fact, Prototype didn't even win the top honours within the narrow parameters that combined these elements as most critics thought the best free-running open-world game starring a superhero in 2009 was the PS3 exclusive InFamous. Hamstrung by a more highly acclaimed competitor and a rubbish release date – the game came out in the wake of E3 when the world was talking about Project Natal and little else – it looked as though Prototype and its hooded protagonist, Alex Mercer, didn't have much of a fighting chance.But something funny happened to Protoype on the way to the franchise graveyard: it sold, and it sold rather respectably at that. Its opening week of around 400,000 units didn't exactly break sales records, but over the next couple of years, it began to climb towards the seven figures mark. In 2010, when it had shot past 2m, publisher Activision realised that it had a bona fide hit on its hands, and tapped up Radical to produce a second game.For Prototype 2, Radical has shifted focus a bit, and replaced  Mercer as the main character. Instead, the hero of Prototype 2 is a soldier named James Heller, who returns to New York to find it desolate in the wake of the events that transpired in the first Prototype.The city has become over-run by something called the Blacklight Virus, an infestation that either kills its human hosts or turns them into savage, blood-thirsty mutants. The only exception to this rule is a sociopathic enigma named Alex Mercer, who recently cut a bloody swathe through the city in search of answers about why the virus didn't kill him outright. His rampage caused huge amounts of collateral damage and Heller learns that among the countless bodies Mercer left in his wake, two of them were his wife and daughter.Consumed with grief, Heller volunteers for missions that take him into the heart of the most contaminated zone in the city, where Mercer is still at large. Their first confrontation doesn't go too well for Heller as Mercer overpowers him completely and infects him with the virus. Against the odds, Heller survives this ordeal, and like Mercer, finds himself the recipient of some pretty amazing powers. He also finds himself hunted by his military commanders, who want to dissect him and find out why the virus didn't kill him, as they wish to weaponise it. After escaping their clutches, Heller goes on the run in New York, seeking to track down Mercer so he can exact answers and revenge in equal measure.So Prototype 2's set-up is pretty similar to that of its predecessor, but with a bit of a renewed focus. Unlike Mercer, Heller is easier to identify with as a sympathetic protagonist and his objectives are a bit more clear cut. Also, his interactions with the civilians in New York aren't limited to pummelling them for answers or consuming them for energy (and laughs). Heller also starts off the game on a better footing than Mercer with several of the original game's powers – including the ability to glide between buildings – already unlocked. Heller also has a brand new sonar ability that allows him to pick out enemies or items of interest in his environment that'll help him track down Mercer.The game's combat system has also benefitted from some tweaks. Heller has a basic melee skill set, the ability to pick up any weapons he comes across and he can also hijack military vehicles. As the game unfolds, he also gains access to a list of impressive powers, such as the ability to form stabbing weapons out his limbs or morph his hands into massive oversized fists. However, players can now chain attacks together in devastating combos and a special emphasis has been put on finishing moves. They can also assign a power to each arm, use hot buttons on the control pad to switch between powers easily and quickly.As in the first game, players earn XP for activities such as killing monsters, hijacking vehicles and absorbing humans and stealing their forms. This comes in handy in later levels when more powers for Heller's steadily growing bio-arsenal become unlocked. Players can also pick up new powers from the odd monster; in the playing time I was given, I was able to gift Heller with giant claws by absorbing it from an attacking mutant.The game's visuals have also been given a polish. Unlike the first game in which the draw distance was pathetic, pop-in was rampant and character models occasionally resembled melted plastic, Protoype 2's visuals are crisp, clear and far more detailed. This is especially apparent in the combat animations, where innards, limbs and bucketloads of claret cake the screen. Prototype 2's combat is as graphically violent as it is brutally satisfying.The environment has been tweaked in terms of its structure, too. The New York of Prototype 2 is now divided into three zones, which colour-code the different levels of infection throughout the city. The Green Zone is the least damaged part of the city – it's the "safe" zone for civilians, where infection is contained and the military are entrenched in force. The Yellow Zone is an overcrowded ghetto of growing infection, where the military presence is sporadic and reduced. Red Zone is the gutted and bleeding heart of the contagion, where feral mutants roam the dilapidated streets and anyone who enters from the outside usually ends up in their digestive tracts.Players can expect the difficulty in the enemies they encounter to vary from zone to zone. Most of my play-through took place in the Yellow Zone where, for the first hour or so of the game, the mission structure is set up more to teach the player about the game's mechanics and the map layout, rather than to make them feel like a demi-god. This comes later, as a quick fast-forward to the Red Zone demonstrated.In a first-look demo that completed my time with the game, Radical's developers showed the full extent of Heller's deadly capabilities once most of his powers have been unlocked. Alongside the previous game's massive fists, edged weapons and whip-fist abilities, Heller has some new powers including the ability to split his tendril attacks, allowing him to eviscerate multiple targets. He can string opponents up in globules of webbing. He can tear off the turret of a tank and use it on enemies like an oversized tennis racquet. Top among his new powers has to be the new Bio Bomb; this is a timed attack in which Heller plunges a slab of ooze into an NPC, kicks them to a safe distance, and then they explode in a mess of tendrils that obliterate anything around them.There isn't much finesse to the combat in Prototype 2, but then, that isn't really the point. The game is first and foremost a power trip in which the player is given a sense of god-like power and the ability to unleash spectacular amounts of carnage at the drop of a hat. Now if Radical can marry this alluring cocktail to an absorbing narrative and some decently layered gameplay, the resulting game may be so good that the notion of third Prototype won't feel like such a wildcard.• Prototype 2 will be released for Xbox 360, PS3 and PC on 27 April
Just in case you missed this on Monday,news site VG247 has learnedfrom "multiple sources" that the next Xbox console, apparently codenamed Durango, will feature a Blu-ray drive and is set to require an always-on internet connection.It was previously thought unlikely that Microsoft would use the Bu-ray optical disc technology in its machine as its close rival, Sony, is a founding member of the Blu-ray Disc Association and worked with Philips to prototype the standard. Earlier reports suggested that the Xbox 720, as it is currently widely referred to, would abandon disc-based media entirely, in favour of memory cards or digital-only distribution.More contentious and controversial, however, is the assertion that the console will need to be connected to the internet at all times in order to run games. This is a security measure employed by some new PC titles, ensuring that pirated software won't work. VG247 makes no mention ofearlier rumoursthat the console will seek to control the sale of used games, possibly by fixing new purchases to a specific Xbox Live account.These measures would certainly appease publishers but would generate, let's say, "ill-feeling" among gamers. There have been huge protests among the PC community when such restrictive digital rights management technologies have been implemented into games.VG247 goes on to reflect other reports that the architecture will be based around AMD graphics processing units, possibly from the firm's 7000 series, though seemingly not the more advanced "Southern Islands" techrumoured to be powering the PS4. It also looks as though Kinect 2 will be built into the console.With Microsoft claiming that Xbox 360 will remain the focus of its E3 content this year, the idea of a Christmas 2013 looks less likely – but certainly not impossible.More as it happens. Or, indeed, doesn't happen.
A selection of nine new apps for you today:Running Trax - Ministry of SoundDance brand Ministry of Sound has a new iPhone app for sporty types, providing the soundtrack to their runs, as well as route-planning features. Exclusive mixes are provided, along with Ministry of Sound Radio and a "Boost" button for a high-energy track when flagging.iPhoneGlamour UKAnother magazine app for Condé Nast on iOS: this time it's Glamour getting the Newsstand subscription treatment, with monthly issues costing £1.99 with an auto-renew feature to get new copies.iPhone / iPadHarrods MagazineRetailer Harrods is on the App Store with its official iPad app. It's a digital magazine focusing on fashion, beauty and home furnishings, including video interviews, behind-the-scenes fashion-shoot footage and plenty of products.iPadL.I.L.Y by Stella McCartneyAnother fashionable app here, created by Gin Lane Media for Stella McCartney's new perfume. There's video, a photo collage and augmented reality features to clue you in on the fragrance.iPhoneSmartAppFinder App MarketAnother day, another Android app for discovering other Android apps. Soon we'll need a discovery app to discover the discovery apps. Or not. This one sounds quite useful though, offering personalised recommendations and daily deals.AndroidKiss RemixerNo, not an appy way to put a donk on Crazy Crazy Nights. Although isn't that a thought? This is a remixing app for BlackBerry based on radio station Kiss, letting fans swizzle tracks from the likes of Example, Pixie Lott, Tinchy Stryder and Dappy. BBM sharing is boiled in too.BlackBerryBlack Plaques LondonBlack Plaques is an alternative tour-guide app to London, promising "Executions in Trafalgar Square, putrid gases pumped up Big Ben" and "underwear looted from Buckingham Palace."iPhone / iPad774 DeathsSquare Enix has surprised iPhone gamers with a new game, 774 Deaths, which it describes as "a murderously difficult action platformer" with more than 74 hours of gameplay.iPhoneCarly Simon iPadCarly Simon's so vain, she probably thinks this iPad app is about her. Oh, wait, it is! Expect news, video blogs, music clips and photos.iPad
Pastebin: the end is nigh for hacking dumps?A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSEC Probes Groupon &gt;&gt; WSJ.comWhat's the deal, here?Oracle and Google will go to trial &gt;&gt; CNET NewsIt's on:Last week, Magistrate Judge Paul S. Grewal asked both parties to give settlement talks another chance, with a decision required by April 9. Even though they had another week, it must have been clear that a settlement just isn't in the cards.Pastebin to hire staff to tackle hackers' 'sensitive' posts &gt;&gt; BBC NewsCountdown to a wave of DoS attacks.Shopping for Zero-Days: a price list for hackers' secret software exploits &gt;&gt; ForbesSo:any hacker who happens to know one Bangkok-based security researcher who goes by the handle "the Grugq"-or someone like him-has a third option: arrange a deal through the pseudonymous exploit broker to hand the exploit information over to a government agency, don't ask too many questions, and get paid a quarter of a million dollars-minus the Grugq's 15% commission.Cheapest exploits? Adobe Reader. Priciest? iOS.Google TV is coming to Europe this September &gt;&gt; GigaomSony will start selling Google TV-based products in Europe in September, according to a report by Les Echos.The site reports comments by Sony France marketing director Stephane Labrousse that the CE maker will sell two devices: A set-top box which will go on sale for EUR200 ($266) and a box with an integrated Blu-ray player that will sell for EUR300 ($399).UK launch also at the same time, it suggests.Groupon revisions expose risk as new model outpaces controls &gt;&gt; SF ChronicleFollowing on from yesterday's link about a "sub-prime" lender:The Chicago-based company reported a "material weakness" in financial controls on March 30 and said fourth-quarter sales were lower than previously stated because of higher refunds to merchants. That cut revenue in the period - Groupon's first as a public company - by $14.3 million to $492.2 million.The announcement added to setbacks for Groupon, which has struggled to get its financial statements in order since filing for an initial public offering in June. The company abandoned an accounting method for operating income after a review by regulators and later restated 2010 results.Incremental change wins Apple big gains &gt;&gt; TidBitsGlenn Fleishman:Those competing with Apple have to advertise every new device and computer as being substantially different enough to justify a quicker upgrade cycle. If Apple makes $400 from a low-end MacBook Air that might be in use for five years, and Dell makes $50 (after paying Microsoft for Windows) for a low-end laptop, how quickly does Dell need to sell that person another device? During those five years, Apple might get $29 two or three times for updates to Mac OS X; Dell gets nothing from any Windows upgrades. Apple may also now reap additional dollars from Mac App Store purchases, too. Dell? Nothing.Intriguing argument which implies that Dell has to keep growing even to survive - though of course for Dell having a big installed base to pick from *should* mean it would reach a point where constant renewal of machines guarantees a given revenue and profit.But maybe that's what's gone wrong. (Fleishman also blogs for The Economist.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Aleks Krotoski and Charles Arthur are joined by Trefor Davies and Keith Stuart to tackle this week's technology headlines. On the slate:The UK government'sannounced moves to monitor email, web browsing and social media. How realistic is this, and will it curb terrorism?BlackBerry-maker RIM has decided tore-focus its smartphone business model on the business market. Why? Charles dissects the numbers and predicts whether leaving the consumer sector will save the company.Trefor Daviesgives his impressions of the 4G mobile network, after spending a day testing it. Where in London did he get a whopping 40Mbps? In a fast food restaurant or on the number 52 bus?Finally, Keith Stuartoffers his advice to OpCapita, the company that acquired the flailing video games high street retailer GAME at the eleventh hour. What does it need to do to keep the 333 outlets open?These stories and more in this week's Tech Weekly from the Guardian.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
What's going on in your gaming lives this Tuesday?
A British teenager accused of cyber-attacks linked to hacking groups Anonymous and LulzSec has been sent to jail after breaching his bail conditions.Ryan Cleary, 19, has been remanded in custody at Chelmsford prison after he used the internet to contact Hector Xavier Monsegur, the hacker known as "Sabu" who the FBI used as a secret informant for months last year.The solicitor for Cleary on Monday said that the Essex teenager was rearrested on 5 March, a day before the FBIrevealedit had tracked communication between Monsegur and other alleged members of LulzSec.Cleary is alleged to have contacted Monsegur a handful of times over the Christmas period, according to his solicitor, Karen Todner, a partner at the law firm Kaim Todner.He was banned from using the internet after being charged in June 2011 with offences under the Computer Misuse Act 1990 and Criminal Law Act 1977.Cleary will be held at Chelmsford prison until 11 May, when he will appear at a plea and case management hearing at Southwark crown court along with others suspected of having links to the hacking groups.An appeal to overturn the custody was rejected by a judge at Southwark crown court last month, according to Cleary's solicitor. "We appreciate now that at the time [of the communication] 'Sabu' was working for the FBI," said Todner.
Groupon, the internet company that offers discount vouchers on everything from fish pedicures and cheese-tasting to botox and pole-dancing classes, has been forced to issue a retrospective profit warning after it failed to anticipate how many disgruntled customers would demand a refund.The four-year-old company, until recently widely described as the next internet darling, admitted its latest results should have included $22.6m (£14.1m) more of quarterly losses than the $42.7m it reported in February.The company, which was last year told to cut its reported revenue in half after the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) questioned its accounting practices, was forced to warn investors that there is still a "material weakness" in its financial reporting.Groupon, which made its 31-year-old founder, Andrew Mason, a multimillionaire when it floated on New York's Nasdaq exchange last year, admitted it "did not maintain financial close process and procedures that were adequately designed, documented and executed to support the accurate and timely reporting of our financial results". The company also made a "number of manual post-close adjustments" to its financial results after they were filed with the regulator.Restatements of a company's results soon after flotation are rare because the securities commission requires a great deal of disclosure and fact-checking before an initial public offering. "It's extremely unusual, as companies generally go through very thorough audits before filing and so should have their policies and procedures fairly well ironed out," said Lise Buyer, principal at Class V Group, which advises startups on public offerings.Ken Sena, an analyst at Evercore Partners, said the restatement was particularly worrying for a company that had already posted weaker figures than expected. "The long-term model is very strong, but in the nearer term we are less enthusiastic," he said.The shares, which floated at $20, dropped 7% in after-hours trading after Groupon's admission on Friday night. They were changing hands for $16.30 on Monday, valuing the company at $11.7bn.Although Jason Child, Groupon's finance director, said the company "remains confident in the fundamentals of our business", its securities commission filing warned investors that it would be forced to "divert a significant amount of money" that it had earmarked for expansion into paying the increased refunds.The company, which has yet to turn a profit, said its fourth-quarter losses were greater than it first estimated because it failed to account for the number of people who would demand a refund.The news comes just weeks after an Office of Fair Trading (OFT) investigation on this side of the Atlantic found Groupon guilty of widespread breaches of consumer protection laws. Groupon was referred to the OFT after the Advertising Standards Authority  found the company had broken UK advertising regulations more than 50 times in less than a year.Roy Blanga, Groupon's UK joint managing director, admitted that the "young company in a completely new industry" had sometimes "not been able to put all the checks and balances in place".The company, whose Twitter account is often deluged by disgruntled customers, said the cost of refunds had increased recently because it had begun to offer more expensive products, for which buyers are more likely to demand a refund if something goes wrong.Its much-trumpeted "Groupon promise" vows that "if the experience using your Groupon ever lets you down, we'll make it right or return your purchase."".British consumers spent £292.5m on discount voucher websites in the second half of last year, according to the first ever European Daily Deals Summit in London last month.Groupon, by far the biggest player in the market, sending its daily email to 143 million people, refused to state how many of its customers have demanded a refund. But the company said it had trebled the number of staff at its British call centres in London and Liverpool. It's not just customers who complain. Numerous small business have hit the headlines after a Groupon deal has gone "viral" and they've been left unable to cope.Rachel Brown, who has been baking cupcakes for 25 years, said deciding to offer her company's cakes on Groupon was "the worst ever business decision I have made" after she was deluged with orders for 102,000 cupcakes compared to her usual production run of about 100 a month. After calling in extra staff she lost £2.50 on each order.Herman Leung, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial in San Francisco, said the company is "growing so fast that it sounds like they don't have the proper financial controls to deal with the growth".In its filing with the SEC, Groupon conceded that its accounting issues "could adversely affect us, our reputation or investors perceptions of us". "It also may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers."The company already has a difficult relationship with investors and Wall Street analysts, who have described the company as behaving like an "overgrown toddler" andaccused it of running a Ponzi scheme".Groupon said the accounting change did not affect its previously reported cash flow or its previous profit forecast.
You already know how to keep messages private: you just encrypt the contents using a password. But although this kind of technology has been freely available to PC users since Phil Zimmermann launched PGP (Pretty Good Privacy) in 1991, hardly anyone uses it. The benefits of email and online messaging are that they are fast and relatively frictionless – you don't need to address an envelope, find a stamp, walk to a post box and so on – and encryption becomes an annoyance.The problem with the latestgovernment attempts at snoopingis that they are not concerned with the content of messages, but their existence. If you have found some suspected criminals or terrorists, then you will want to know who their friends are: the people they email or message most frequently. Each of these people can probably be identified by their internet protocol (IP) address: the number assigned by their ISP (internet service provider). Even an encrypted email will usually include the addresses of the sender and the recipient in its headers.The general solution to privacy concerns is to use a non-UK "proxy server" to relay web pages, messages, anonymous email accounts and other content anonymously. Hackers who really want to hide their origins will use several proxy servers, including ones that are acting as proxies without their owner's knowledge. Many websites publish lists of free proxy servers, which are updated continuously.Of course, these servers may offer less privacy than your ISP, and some may be traps or "honeypots". However, there are some trusted anonymous servers available either free or for modest payments.Examples include hidemyass.com, anonymouse.org, Guardster, Proxify, IDzap and Megaproxy. Such servers usually have terms of service to prevent abusive or criminal behaviour. They will probably record your IP address and may report you if you breach them, so they're not completely beyond government reach. However, they're probably beyond government fishing expeditions.There are also some really anonymous remailer services, which use networks such as Cypherpunk and Mixmaster to ensure privacy. The drawback is that if you send an email anonymously, the recipient cannot simply hit Reply. QuickSilver software for 32-bit Microsoft Windows makes it relatively simple to route an email through 45 or more remailers using Mixmaster. But like the Tor anonymous network, this kind of thing is mostly used by programmers and geeks.There are simpler ways to send private and/or anonymous emails. For example, anonymouse.org offers a simple form for AnonEmail, as does the sendanonymousemail.net website. There's also Mailinator, which provides free disposable email addresses, and Hushmail, which works like an ordinary email service but encrypts all your email.For encrypted instant messaging, you could try BitWiseIM or ProjectSCIM (for Secure Cryptographic Instant Messenger). Facebook's internal messaging is reasonably private because it's not visible on the net, though it could be vulnerable to a court order.In the end, the simplest way to increase your privacy and security is to restrict your internet use to sites and services that have SSL connections. These are already standard for banks and shopping sites, and are increasingly used for email and other purposes. You can recognise them by the s for secure in their https: addresses, and a padlock visible in the browser. The next step is to use the InPrivate, Incognito or Private Browsing feature of your web browser to use anonymous online services.However, it's worth trying proxy servers and services, if only to provide a nice illustration of the law of unintended consequences. In other words, government attempts to snoop can help to create an internet culture where snooping becomes impossible.
Ah yes, April Fool's Day – how much more fun it is now that the internet allows these japes to be beamed across the world via every social connectivity service imaginable. And now that we have Wikipedia to tell us thatspaghetti treesdon't really exist (ha ha ha, it's a classic), we demand more sophisticated japery. We don't always get it, but we do at least demand it.Anyway, the video game industry is not immune to the charms of this annual attack on the gullible and confused. Here are three examples from yesterday that actually worked, if only because they're lampooning games themselves, rather than the people who tend to fall for April-orientated pranks.Here goes:Assassin's CreedIt's been viewed over a million times, so the chances are you've seen this spoof trailer for a Kinect version of athletic action adventure, Assassin's Creed. It has exactly the right atmosphere of po-faced sincerity usually conjured by game trailers – but look at the moves that players have to pull off to control the onscreen character. Really quite amusing.Best bit:The woman diving through her coffee table.Thomas Was AloneThis is Mike Bithell the creator of the excellent indie platformer,Thomas Was Alone, trying to convince us that he had the game's simple shapes motion captured for extra realism. Everyone, including the owner of mo-cap specialist Audiomotion, plays it dead straight, but it's extremely silly.Best bit:When the actor in the box gets stuck on the stairs.Retro City RampageThis is so meta!Retro City Rampageis a retro-stylised take on Grand Theft Auto, re-imagined as a blocky 8bit home computer game. So this April Fool video not only pretends that the game has been turned into a breakfast cereal, it's also designed to resemble aneightiesTV commercial, recorded and played back on adodgy VCR! Frankly, there are so many layers of post-structuralist representation here, even Derrida would be baffled. Or you can just laugh at the excellent rendition of poor retro video effects.Best bit:"You can really taste the graphics!"
My initial enthusiasm for Kinect back in 2010 was based on its initial promise being followed by a second wave of more diverse releases. However, with a few rare exceptions, this failed to arrive. Now the same partnership responsible for the excellent Disneyland Adventures brings us Kinect Rush, another mini-game compilation but this time based on Pixar's recent back catalogue.In fact, the most underwhelming thing at first glance is the genre. We all know Kinect can cope with bite-sized arcade challenges, but the question remains – can it handle anything else? Sadly, you won't find the answer here, but when the results are as charming as this, it's hard to quibble.You start off by letting the camera scan in your image and making a few style choices to create your own cutesy mini-avatar. Your character is then dropped off in Pixar Park, a smallish but colourful central hub where you can interact with other characters – either real players or NPCs if you're on your own.The five themed areas are based around the movie franchises of The Incredibles, Up, Ratatouille, Cars and Toy Story. Each tale is broken into several mini-game challenges, with new characters unlocked as the level progresses and your avatar customised to resemble the movie characters around you.So in the Cars 2 section, you naturally play a car while in Toy Story 3 you're a little robot. Between the movie themes there's a huge variety of challenges, some calling for faster reactions than others – so Up is more about puzzle solving while Cars is about time-based challenges.Control is satisfyingly precise given how much trouble some Kinect games have with lag-free movement. The basic moves involve moving your arms to walk, pumping them to run, tilting your shoulders for direction or hips for strafing and, of course, jumping on the spot to cover heights or distances. For driving, simply extend your arms and steer.With so many different worlds to explore, Kinect Rush demands a huge variety of skills – from rope swinging in Up, to leaping across Parisian rooftops in Ratatouille or hurling cars around in The Incredibles.Yes, there are occasional glitches – jumping can be tricky for the camera to pick up and the younger audience that might enjoy these characters most may find it all too fiddly and tiring to master. Then again, I doubt a roomful of flailing toddlers surrounded by Pixar characters are going to be bothered much about high scores.In fact, the determination of Kinect Rush to appeal to the whole family largely succeeds through the excellent split-screen co-op mode that encourages players of different skills or ages to work together. It's physical and challenging enough for adults to rack up all the hidden items and bonuses, but the absence of health meters or death means even toddlers can complete any challenge given some patience and encouragement.Yet what Rush does best is immerse you fully and unobtrusively in recent cinema's most iconic movie worlds – colourful, instantly recgonisable yet also fleshed out with whole new areas, characters and storylines to explore. There's great voice acting, either sounding like or actually using many of the original cast members, and a soundtrack that mixes cinematic themes with more formulaic arcade ditties. All in all, if you love Pixar, this is certainly the best use of those characters in a video game so far.And if you wanted a reason to dig your Kinect out of storage, look no further. Kinect Rush may be short on length, but it's big on playability, imagination and fun.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 31 March 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Fifa Street(3+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (42)32 (3)Mass Effect 3(15+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (30)PC (8)43 (–)Tiger Woods PGA Tour 13 (3+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (42)14 (2)Resident Evil: Operation Raccoon City(15+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (42)25 (4)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (38)Wii (4)3DS (2)276 (–)Naruto Shippuden Ninja Storm Generations (12+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (49)17 (6)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (41)PC (4)Wii (2)218 (8)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (37)PC (6)239 (10)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (69)3DS (32)1810 (5)SSX (3+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (50)511 (14)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (36)PC (13)2112 (–)Silent Hill HD Collection (15+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (47)113 (16)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (38)PC (1)1914 (7)Kid Icarus: Uprising(12+)3DS (100)215 (–)Silent Hill: Downpour (15+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (48)116 (–)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)1517 (11)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (45)PC (2)1918 (–)Gears Of War 3(18+)Xbox 360 (100)819 (–)Batman: Arkham City(15+)PS3 (53)Xbox 360 (45)1320 (12)Final Fantasy XIII-2(16+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (46)7UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
As you may haveseen on Sunday, investment firm OpCapita has acquired the stricken retailer Game, retainingg 333 UK stores and safeguarding more than 3200 jobs. Apparently, the investor has no plans for further closures and has installed former Halfords Group chief executive David Hamid as chairman."We strongly believe there is a place on the high street for a video gaming specialist and Game is the leading brand in a £2.8bn market in the UK," said OpCapita's founder, Henry Jackson. "We have assembled a strong team of experienced industry operators to implement the programme of operational change that is needed."So what now? Here are the five things OpCapita's industry operators should probably consider first.Re-establish supplier relationshipsThis is the obvious one. In the run up to Game's collapse, major publishers like EA, Capcom and Ubisoft stopped supplying the stores with new titles, so the chain missed out on major releases such as Mass Effect 3 and Resident Evil: Operation Raccoon City. Those supply lines need to be re-opened, with plenty of reassurances about the long-term future of the retailer – and, of course, its finances. Old Game was unable to secure the credit necessary to buy in fresh stock; new Game will need to show that situation has changed.Consolidate the brandThe surviving business is made up of both Game stores and branches of Game Station, the more "hardcore" chain bought out in 2007. This segregation made sense when there were more than 600 stores in the country, but does a streamlined franchise require it? A unified chain would make sense both in terms of operations and highstreet recognition.Develop an effective multi-channel strategyIn the past, Game failed to unify its online and high street offerings – its website was okay, but there seemed to be a lot of price differences between web and store stock and this ruled out an effective "click and collect" service. Stores such as Argos and John Lewis have been hugely successful with their click and collect offerings – it allows customers to check the availabiity of stock in their local stores and then purchase items that day rather than waiting for them to be posted. This set-up works especially well with entertainment products like games: if customers fancy spending the weekend playing a new release, they can check on availability on Saturday morning and have it in their console within a couple of hours. It'll be even better if Game can develop a click and collect app for mobile phones, showing the nearest stores – and even better still if they can integrate a social layer, letting subscribers know what their friends are buying.Both embrace and counteract digitalWith an increasing number of game sales going to download services such as Xbox Live Arcade, PlayStation Network and Steam, traditional retailers could easily be edged out of the pipeline completely. Old Game made headway here, not just buy selling pre-paid cards with XBLA, PSN and Nintendo eShop access, but by supplying cards for specific digital-only games and DLC as well. This allowed parents to buy, say, new Modern Warfare maps or digital indie games such as Castle Crashers for their children. New Game needs to develop this: can it work with Electronic Arts to bring theEA Game Cardsto the UK? Is there potential for a dedicated Steam card?Be a specialistOld Game was great at the big launches, opening its stores at midnight to sell the latest Elder Scrolls, Call of Duty and Fifa titles as well as new consoles. This spirit needs to be captured within the new Game stores during daylight opening hours. Partly, this will be about the controversial practise of securing exclusive content and special editions of major titles. Game no doubt boosted its pre-orders of titles such as Assassin's Creed and Dragon Age by promising exclusive content – it was, for example, the only store in the UK to offer Batman Arkham City: The Robin Edition, which featured the Dark Knight's sidekick as a playable character (otherwise only available later, through DLC).More than this, Game needs to be a destination for gamers and for those interested in games. It needs to present an attractive environment in which the latest titles are playable, and in which staff recommendations and back-cat promotions give customers a reason to pop in. Pre-owned will clearly be a major income source for the foreseeable future, but racks of poorly displayed second-hand games can't be allowed to dominate the shop floor real estate. Customers stepping in to a Game store should feel like they're among specialists who understand and care about the products.Do you have any other ideas? What would getyouinto a Game store on a Saturday morning?
A selection of 23 new apps for you today:Marvel AREntertainment brand Marvel has launched an augmented reality app, using the technology of British startup Aurasma. Users can point their smartphones' cameras at the Marvel AR logo on products and comics to see videos, 3D shorts, character biographies, artwork and commentaries. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadGuitar VisionThis guitar-teaching app sounds too good to be true, but hopefully isn't. "It attempts to extract guitar tracks out of any song in your iTunes library and transcribe it into guitar chords through patent-pending polyphonic pitch detection technology, while you hear the music," explains its App Store listing. Once extracted, it shows chords and note fingering on a virtual fretboard while the song plays.iPhone / iPadLearn GuitarAnd more guitar learning, this time on Android with an app from entrepreneur Jason Calacanis' Mahalo startup. It's a guitar tuition app with videos from Jen Trani ("YouTube's most popular guitar teacher") shot in HD.AndroidBubbly – Voice Blogging &amp; Social NetworkBubbly is a bit like Twitter, but with voice messages rather than text, all recorded on and listened to on mobile phones. It's big in India and Asia, with more than 14m users there, including celebrities. Now it has an iPhone app available in the West, including an in-app purchase to access all the celebs' updates.iPhoneMcAfee Secure ContainerHere's one reason BlackBerry may be facing stiffer competition in the enterprise market. McAfee Secure Container is for employees using their personal Android smartphones for work. It "isolates and encrypts your corporate email, contacts, and calendar in a separate, lockable app, so your IT department never has to worry about confidential corporate info falling into the wrong hands" according to its store listing.AndroidMAD Magazine (Cheap!)That's the real title, in case you're wondering. DC Comics has launched an iPad app for its popular MAD Magazine, offering individual digital issues and subscriptions. As they say: "There's no better way to tell the world, 'I have an iPad and I'm not afraid to squander its potential!'"iPadMobangoMobile firm Mobango is the latest company trying to sort out Android app discovery, with its new app sorting other apps into five categories and 84 sub-categories, while building in recommendations from Facebook friends.AndroidEnquirer PlusAmerican Media's new iPad app for its National Enquirer magazine is US-only for now. It offers digital issues for $0.99 a pop, or a monthly subscription for $2.99. Expect plenty of gossip, photos and – judging by its App Store screenshots – news on Cee Lo's amazing-looking cat.iPadPut.IO PlayerUsing the Put.io cloud service to store music and videos? This app aims to make it easier to play them on your device. It supports a range of formats, although what rightsholders will make of its "embedded web browser for FINDING TORRENTS to add to your Put.IO download queue" (the developer's capitals) remains to be seen. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadEasy LivingCondé Nast has launched an iOS app for its Easy Living magazine, which is aimed at "30-plus women", selling individual issues at £3.99 a time. The publisher is using PixelMags' platform.iPhone / iPadTinyFridgeHere's a fun idea from (I think) South Korea. TinyFridge is an iPhone app for keeping track of what's in your fridge, and when it goes off. Alarms can be set for three or seven days before expiry dates, and you can add pictures of items too.iPhoneSimplNo, nothing to do with meerkats. Simple is an iPad app for building websites – five-page sites, to be specific, with photos, news and links presented in a choice of themes. The app is free, but after a two-week trial, a subscription kicks in for hosting costs.iPadTweedieThis iPad Twitter app pulls in tweets as one big stream, then lets you drag and drop them into streams sorted by hashtag, @name, URLs and categories. It's an open source HTML5 project, so the developer is keen for others to help improve it too.iPadHow It Works: Machines HD for iPadIf you're struggling to explain to a curious child how cars, trains, washing machines or windmills work, this app is for you. It gets them assembling virtual machines, and claims to be a "put-it-together-and-make-it-work" app.iPadStar JarThis app helps parents reward "excellent behaviour" from their children, awarding stars as rewards for various actions from multiple kids. There's also a neat feature if you have both the iPhone and iPad versions to digitally "pour" the collected stars into a big virtual jar.iPhone / iPadDungeon Hunter 3Gameloft's freemium action-RPG makes the leap from iOS to Android, sending players hacking through 16 arenas with bags of items to unlock along the way.AndroidPowered by BravoHere's another big media partner for augmented reality startup Aurasma: NBC Universal's Bravo channel. This Android app turns its Affluencer print magazine into more of a multimedia offering.AndroidFingerMath AbacusThis is a lovely-looking maths app for children on the iPad, the first app from "smart learning" startup Smatoos. It aims to provide an intuitive way for kids to learn to add and subtract.iPadPeyton &amp; FriendsThis iPhone book-app is based on a printed book, and promises augmented reality animals and unlockable games for children who have both. The app can also apparently be enjoyed on its own.iPhoneTinydesk Writer for WordPressNot keen on the official WordPress blogging app? Tinydesk Writer might be worth a look, promising a more sophisticated blog writing and management tool for on-the-go editing.iPhoneMixtapesSpotify subscribers can use this app to turn their playlists into pseudo-mixtapes, with the benefit being the songs will change whenever the playlist is updated on another device.iPadCrestAnother whizzy new iPad Twitter app here taking a different spin on microblogging. It visualises tweets as profile thumbnails dropping onto the screen in real-time, and a mix of swipes to control it.iPadGreat Little War Game3D turn-based strategy game Great Little War Game has been a big hit on iOS and Android. Now it's available on RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook tablet, with 30 missions to play through.BlackBerry PlayBook
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy Groupon is poised for collapse &gt;&gt; VentureBeatWhy?for starters, it's not a coupon company nor a marketing company. At its core, Groupon's U.S. business is a receivables factoring business, as I wrote last year. They give loans to small businesses at a very steep rate (the price of the discount plus Groupon's commission). They get the money to fund these loans from credit card companies such as Chase Paymentech. Groupon is essentially a sub-prime lender that does zero risk assessment. And as word continues to spread about what a terrible deal running a Groupon is for many categories of businesses, the ones that will choose to run Groupons are the ones that are the most desperate. For U.S. based businesses, the only time I can definitely recommend running a Groupon is if it is otherwise going to go out of business.Compelling. Was Google - which bid $1bn - lucky not to get it?How Linux is changing lives in Zambia &gt;&gt; TechRadarHis role includes managing the roll-out of similar installations at other sites around the country. Like many young IT professionals, Munguya is laid-back, likeable and helpful to a fault. He's just bought his first car and he plans to get married early this year.Nothing unusual so far, you might think. Except that Elton works for LinkNet Zambia. His 'patch' is a small rural village called Macha in the south of the country. The nearest tarmacked road is more than 15km away, and it's a 45-minute drive to get to the closest town, Choma.Inspiring.The toll of hardware and software fragmentation on Android devs &gt;&gt; The Next WebThis was highlighted by therecent release of Temple Runon the Android platform. A previously (very) successful game on iOS, it was brought over to Android in order to take advantage of the huge number of devices that run the OS. And it has already hit1 million downloadsin just 3 days, good, even for a free app. But very quickly, the developers of the app discovered the pitfalls of fragmentationRead the comments too, though: plenty of Android developers saying they don't have any problem. Seems like it's more of a problem for games developers.TweetDeck taken offline following discovery of bug exposing Twitter accounts &gt;&gt; Digital TrendsFriday:Twitter has taken TweetDeck offline after a user discovered he had access to hundreds of Twitter accounts when using the client in the usual way (ie. he didn't hack it). TweetDeck said it is looking into the issue.MasterCard, VISA Warn of Processor Breach &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityVISA and MasterCard are alerting banks across the country about a recent major breach at a U.S.-based credit card processor. Sources in the financial sector are calling the breach "massive," and say it may involve more than 10 million compromised card numbers.Update, 4:32 p.m. ET: Atlanta-based processor Global Payments just confirmed that they discovered a breach in early March 2012. See their full statement and several other updates at the end of this story.Depressing, really. Banks have started looking for where the common point of use of breached cards might be. First result: parking garages around New York City.No, Microsoft won't add back the Start button &gt;&gt; Dividend.comA Nomura analyst commented, "Meeting Tami Reller, the head of marketing and CFO of the Windows and Windows Live Division at Microsoft. Microsoft will not be adding back the Start Button. They will add a tutorial to show keyboard/mouse users the new commands that they need to orient themselves with in the new OS. We have not seen the controversy on the touch (Metro) side, and this is where all the industry growth will come. Our next look at the product will be the Release Candidate (RC), which we have expected by June, followed by the Release to Manufacturing (RTM) in late July or August, and finally the release to General Availability (GA) in September or October."Gang members sentenced over Apple and Amazon fraud | ZDNet UKThree people have been sentenced for participating in a massive online music fraud, in which the gang uploaded music to iTunes and Amazon before using compromised cards to buy it back in large volumes.At Southwark Crown Court on Thursday, James Batchelor was jailed for two years, Siobhan Clarke was given an eight-month suspended sentence and 150 hours' unpaid work, and Colton Johnson was order to undertake 80 hours' unpaid work. The sentencings were the last to take place in connection with the fraud, which has already seen 11 other people convicted and sentenced.The fraud cost Apple and Amazon somewhere in the region of £1m, the Met said. The members of the gang were originally arrested in 2009 following a joint operation between the Met's Police Central e-Crime Unit (PCeU) and the New York Police Department.Thousands of compromised US and UK credit cards were used for the fake purchases. Stupidly, they picked too few albums - they'd have been major recording artists to get that volume of purchases.Google Account Activity tells you all they know &gt;&gt; SlashGearThis month Google is showing off their newest opt-in service known as Account Activity, a service capable of showing you everything the group knows about your signed-in activities. Google services of course work their way into several daily activities of people like you and I, and certainly knowing everywhere I logged in from as well as all the YouTube videos I've ever watched could be entertaining - but that's not what the service is for, says Google. Account Activity is Google's way of helping you "step back and take stock of what you're doing online" in an analytical way.Looks rather neat.Girls and coding: female peer pressure scares them off &gt;&gt; The ObserverEmma Mulqueeny:In my opinion, Year 8 is too late. We need to start teaching digital literacy and coding as a part of the curriculum in Year 5, when most children's maths is strong enough. The curriculum has fostered a familiarity with computing and computers and the young minds are ready to start learning programming languages. Indeed primary school children are creative, excited and less likely to have developed associations, good or bad, with certain subjects.Putting APIs first: legislation.gov.uk &gt;&gt; Government Digital ServiceWe are inviting people from outside The National Archives to work with us, to apply changes to the legislation in the database. Quality is maintained through our editorial practice and a stringent process of review. It is an exciting time as private sector companies are now investing, employing people to work with us to bring the database up to date and to maintain it.Really interesting. Build the API first, make the API available, get people involved. And you think government is behind the times?Touch hardware and Windows 8 - Building Windows 8 &gt;&gt; MSDN BlogsThanks @PaulJReynolds for the link, and his commentary sums it up perfectly: "It's encouraging the they're spending so much time trying to make sure the hardware produced will work as well as possible. "But it does point to the huge challenge they're facing without Apple's luxury of actually making the machines of getting devices to work nicely on hardware from many different manufacturers and how crappy the experience might be if you don't choose a Certified for Windows 8 machine." The video is very interesting, showing the difference between good and bad hardware: you might want to gets a hands-on with your first Windows 8 tablet before laying down your money.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Hello gamers, it's Monday! How was your weekend? Any gaming? We mainy want to hear about the gaming.
Last January a 23-year-old student of industrial-machine design was attracted to work at Foxconn's Longhua plant by what he understood would be a month long "work placement" during which he would earn good money.In fact, he says, he was exposed to a dangerous chemical without adequate protection, worked 10 days without a break, and got half the money promised by the training college that recruited him. "They disguised the nature of the work by calling it a work placement, but in fact it was manual work during the [Chinese new year] winter holidays," said Cui (he declined to give his first name to protect his identity).Eager to pay for his studies at Anyang school of engineering in the central province of Henan, he responded to an ad from a nearby vocational training college, Zhou Ko Lian Ying. Lured with the promise of enough overtime to earn 3,000 yuan (about £300) after expenses in a month, he and 60 other students paid the medical exam fee and 600 yuan for a return bus ticket to the coastal town of Shenzhen. Cui worked applying paint and assembling parts, some of which bore Apple logos. The standard shift was 10 hours, including breaks totalling two hours."As soon as you enter the factory, you are standing throughout the day. It was very tiring." He got one day off a week, although at one point worked 10 days in a row. He was asked a number of times to spend a shift removing badly applied paint from parts using cloths soaked in a chemical, butanone. While longer-serving workers got breathing apparatus, and were under air vents, Cui and fellow interns were issued with simple face masks. "I felt dizziness after a few days," he says.TheUS Centre for Disease Control and Prevention says butanone can cause dizziness, vomiting and numbness of the extremities. In tests on rats it has caused birth defects. Cui rented a bunk in one of the dormitories used by many Foxconn workers; eight to a room, one locker to store possessions, no kitchen, and no tables or chairs. No use of power sockets except for phone charging; anyone caught using a kettle would be disciplined. Most dorm mates were not temporary workers, but had lived there for one or two years.After paying food and board, and missing out on shifts during the public holiday – for which he hoped to earn triple pay – Cui says he was told two days before leaving that he would be paid 2,900 yuan, leaving him just 1,500 yuan after expenses.With fellow students, he complained to the local police but was told the fault was with the college that had employed them and therefore out of their jurisdiction. Foxconn managers refused to meet them to discuss the problem, he says. When they turned to a local commercial lawyer, they were told: "Foxconn makes so much money, and has such importance to local companies that if you fight them here you won't get anywhere."
Apple's factories in China are employing tens of thousands of students, some of them on forced internships, according to campaigners lobbying for better labour conditions at Foxconn plants, which assemble iPhones. Some students could be as young as 16.The Foxconn chairman, Terry Gou, head of China's largest private-sector employer – with  1.2 million workers – promised on Sunday to reduce hours and improve pay after an independent audit found multiple labour law violations at his factories.But campaigners have accused Apple, Foxconn and the Fair Labor Association (FLA), a charitable organisation that carried out the audit published on Friday, of ignoring the issue of forced internships, where students are told they will not graduate unless they spend months working on production lines during holidays.In December, 1,500 students were sent by just one vocational college in Henan, China's most populous province, for internships at Foxconn's Zhengzhou plant, which Apple chief executive, Tim Cook, visited last week. The Yancheng Evening News, which exposed the practice, interviewed students who said they were going against their will and that their schools were acting as "labour agencies"."The gross violation of forced internship was not addressed at all," said Debby Cheng, project officer of Students and Scholars Against Corporate Misbehaviour (Sacom), of the Foxconn audit. "They tried to water down the problem."Students of nursing, languages, music and art are being corralled into internships of between three and six months, during which 10-hour days and seven-day weeks are not unusual, according to Sacom and a number of Chinese media reports, which claim colleges and universities are acting as employment agencies, sending their pupils to Foxconn not for relevant training, but to bolster the workforce during summer and winter holiday periods.In the summer of 2010, when Foxconn was in crisis after several suicides among the workforce at its largest plant in Shenzhen, 100,000 vocational school students – mostly in their late teens – were sent from Henan for three months.China Daily reported that some students at a vocational school in Henan's capital, Zhengzhou, were not told of the work until nine days before they were due to leave home. Teachers told students they must leave "as ordered by the provincial government" and that all those who refused would have to drop out of school.The FLA found that at a peak period in August 2001, 5.7% of the labour force – some 68,000 workers – at Foxconn Group were interns. Its assessors found "interns worked both overtime and night shifts, violations of regulations governing internships".The FLA, which described the hiring of interns as "the source of much controversy" and of "major concern to external stakeholders" in its Apple audit, has agreed measures to improve the treatment of students with Foxconn and Apple.These include making sure the job relates to the intern's field of study, procedures allowing interns to resign so that they do not feel that they are working against their will, and publishing evaluations of internships, including an annual report.The FLA found Foxconn hired an average of 27,000 interns a month, for an average tenure of three and a half months. It said the interns' working day should not exceed eight hours for five days a week, and they should never work seven days in a row.But Sacom and the Guardian's own inquiries have confirmed that 10-hour days and six-day weeks are standard. The FLA said conditions for students were difficult to regulate because under Chinese law they were not defined as employees and no employment relationship exists between the factory and interns.This meant some of Foxconn's most vulnerable workers were the least protected, with the FLA concluding "their employment status remains vague and represents a major risk"."These students should be studying, but rather they now work 10 hours a day, six to seven days a week, taking on night shifts for months at a time, equivalent to adult workers," said Cheng. She criticised the audit for not highlighting the forced labour issue. "They tried to water down the problem. They used the word 'controversial' without mentioning that these students were forced to work at Foxconn."Sacom was set up by Hong Kong academics to highlight working conditions at plants making toys for Disney when Hong Kong Disneyland opened in 2005. It has now expanded to focus on the electronics sector. In March, it issued a public letter to Cook calling on Apple to stop using student workers. It said: "Students who major in subjects such as pharmacy, tourism and language end up working as interns at Foxconn. Some students even complain that if they refuse the 'internship' at Foxconn, they will be forced to drop out of school. This is a form of involuntary labour, which is approved by Apple in producing its products."On Sunday, Gou said at a business forum in Hainan province that he would address Foxconn's long-hours culture. "We are saying now in the company, 'You work fewer hours, but get more pay.'"Foxconn, Apple and the FLA have not responded to requests for comment.
Rovio Mobile is launching a series of 52 shortform animations for its Angry Birds in Autumn, but has ruled out a movie until after 2014."We're going to roll out a weekly animation series later this year of shortform content," said Rovio's head of animation Nick Dorra,speaking at the MIPTV conferencein Cannes.The series will consist of 52 episodes lasting between two-and-a-half and three minutes each. "We're going to roll it out on all possible devices," said Dorra."We're looking at building a video app for that, and we're also looking at partnerships and so on... We want to be on all screens."Those partnerships include a deal with Samsung announced in January 2012 that involves an app for the company's range of Smart TV internet-connected televisions.Rovio acquired Finnish animation studio Kombo in June 2011 to help develop Angry Birds into more than just a gaming brand. The same month, it recruited former Marvel Studios chairman David Maisel as an adviser, sparking talk of a full Angry Birds film."It's in development, but it won't be out in 2013 or 2014," Dorra told the MIPTV audience. "You'll have to bide your time and first watch all of our shorts!"Animation is a key part of Rovio's growth strategy going forward, not least because it provides more leeway to flesh out its characters than the games do, while also attracting new fans who might not want to play the Angry Birds games."It's about telling more engaging stories... and deeper thoughts, deeper feelings of the characters, such as why are they always angry?" said Dorra."Angry Birds is not just about the gameplay, and will be in the future less and less about the slingshot, actually, and more and more about the characters."Dorra was asked what the television industry can learn from the boom in mobile apps and games, and noted that usage of the latter is continuing to grow rapidly."In the US, people watch 150-160 hours of television every month, but the top apps are already bringing 20 hours per month. That's huge, and it's just the beginning," he said.Dorra also suggested that broadcasters can learn from Rovio's strategy of launching its Angry Birds games globally on the same date: as shown by therecent launch of Angry Birds Space."There is a time coming, whether people like it or not, where you have something released at the same time, all over the world," said Dorra. "It's hard to fight it."Rovio is also working on new games, some of which won't involve Angry Birds at all."We are going to release completely new IP this year. Nothing to do with Angry Birds. But we are also working on bringing new projects in the Angry Birds universe that have nothing to do with the gameplay we have seen before," he said.
TheBit.Tripseries of video games has long celebrated all things retro. The stark neon visuals and symphony of bleeps could almost have come straight from the 1980s, while the gameplay – always intense and based on high scoring – unashamedly delights in an affinity with the past.Bit.Trip Saga, also released asBit.Trip Completeon the Wii, brings six games from the series to the 3DS. Previously available as separate downloads across numerous gaming platforms, here they are converted to 3D for Nintendo's portable, and each title is handled with a great degree of success.All six games, each a test of reaction, are minimalist and abstract, and charge the player with quickly manipulating esoteric forms in various ways. While they won't appeal to those with a taste for realism or elaborate gameworlds, for players interested in more instinctive thrills, theBit.Tripgames' precise fusion of rhythm, colour and movement make for a tremendous distraction for retro gaming fetishists.
Having traded on its authentically unsettling early efforts for too long, survival horror seriesSilent Hillis hungry for aResident Evil 4-style reinvention. WithDownpourwhat it gets instead is a snackish retread of the series' emblematic touches – slick&nbsp;fetish monsters, blood-red corridors and ghostly puzzles – presented without any of the old&nbsp;menace.At its best,Silent Hillworks through&nbsp;psychology rather than blunt&nbsp;force, with nightmare geography&nbsp;and traumatised narrators&nbsp;creating a Lynchian atmosphere of meaningful incoherence.Downpouraims for the same, with escaped convict Murphy Pendleton battling repressed guilt as much as the town's fog-shrouded creatures, but the gaps in logic come off as clumsy rather than compelling, a problem amplified by some serious technical shortcomings (leaden combat, an occasionally disastrous&nbsp;frame rate).In the end,Downpouris like one ofSilent Hill's own wretched heroes – trapped by the past and doomed to repeat it.
Let's get straight to the nuts and bolts of it – players already well-versed in theArmored Coreseries will be right at home with this fifth "proper" instalment in the franchise. However, those who have never so much as glanced at a giant robot before might be drowned in so much jargon and futuristic militarism that there will be a temptation to give up before getting to the good stuff.Wade through the confusing opening, though, and you'll find a remarkably solid, if resoundingly challenging mecha adventure. The towering bipedal war machines populating the game are staggeringly customisable – right down to the paint apps – and a hearty single-player mode is bolstered by an even more robust online multiplayer option, allowing you to form teams and fight over&nbsp;territory&nbsp;in ongoing battles.Armored Core Vlooks fantastic and is thoroughly entertaining, but its impenetrability may prove too much for all but the faithful.
If you write about technology, then sooner or later you're going to meet a smartarse who asks whether you've read Heidegger'sThe Question Concerning Technology. Having encountered a number of such smartarses in recent years, I finally decided to do something about it, and obtained a copy of the English translation, published in 1977 by Harper &amp; Row. Having done so, I settled down with a glass of sustaining liquor and embarked upon the pursuit of enlightenment.Big mistake. "To read Heidegger," writes his translator, William Lovitt, "is to set out on an adventure." It is. Actually, it's like embarking on one of those nightmares in which you're wading through quicksand and every time you grasp a rope or a rock it comes apart in your hand. And it turns out that Heidegger's fiendish technique is actually to lure you into said quicksand.For example, he says at one point that the "instrumental conception" of technology – as a means to an end – is "correct", and the innocent reader nods in agreement. But then it turns out that "the correct always fixes upon something that is pertinent in whatever is under consideration. However, in order to be correct, this fixing by no means needs to uncover the thing in question in its essence. Only at the point where such an uncovering happens does the true come to pass. For that reason, the merely correct is not yet the true."At this point a red mist began to occlude this reader's vision, and several hours later he withdrew from the fray, thinking that while one clearly needs to be very clever to study German philosophers, one perhaps has to be nuts to want to. But I came away with a hazy impression that Heidegger thinks that technology is, in essence, a way of organising the world so that one doesn't have to experience it.Which brings us to information warfare, defined as the use of information technology to wage war. And this, as it happens, is the growth industryde nos jours. You think I jest? Well, consider this: the US air force announced last year that it is now trainingmore drone "pilots"than fighter and bomber pilots combined. Once upon a time, aerial warfare consisted of guys climbing into aircraft and flying bombing missions over enemy territory. Now many, if not most, of the lethal missions mounted by the USAF are carried out by unmanned drones flying high over Afghanistan and Pakistan and piloted by uniformed guys sitting in computerised consoles in New Mexico.Drones have quietly become a critical military technology in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and such is the growth in their use that the USAF currently doesn't have enough "pilots" to control them, so service personnel end up working the very long shifts needed to keep the planes in the air 24 hours a day.More interestingly, it turns out that the stress levels for these pilots are unexpectedly high. A Pentagon study has found, for example, that 29% of them suffer from "burnout". A co-author of the study says that the air force tries to recruit people who are emotionally well-adjusted, "family people" with "good values". But "when they have to kill someone, or where they are involved in missions and then they either kill them or watch them killed, it does cause them to rethinkaspects of their life".So maybe Heidegger was wrong: even the kind of remote-control killing that is enabled by drones can't entirely drain killing of emotional significance. It turns out that the contrast between executing a drone attack from an air-conditioned console one minute and then driving home to one's suburban family takes a toll on those who have to do it.But there is one new form of  warfare where Heidegger's insight might turn out to be more relevant. It's called cyberwarfare. The ability to destroy a country's infrastructure – to bring down its electricity grid or disrupt water supplies by hacking into the computers that run these systems – offers a nation the prospect of waging war without incurring either physical or psychological risks for the aggressor's citizens: casualty-free war, if you like.This is uncharted territory. Would it make cyberwarfare more attractive to our political leaders, for example? "In today's democracies," writes one thoughtful commentator,Ross Andersen, "politicians are obligated to explain, at regular intervals, why a military action requires the blood of a nation's young people. Wars waged by machines might not encounter much scepticism in the public sphere."Spot on. Which is one reason why drones and cyberwarfare will be growth industries from now on.
'I propose to consider the question "Can machines think?"' Not my question butthe opening of Alan Turing's seminal 1950 paperwhich is generally regarded as the catalyst for the modern quest to create artificial intelligence. His question was inspired by a book he had been given at the age of 10:Natural Wonders Every Child Should Knowby Edwin Tenney Brewster. The book was packed with nuggets that fired the young Turing's imagination including the following provocative statement:"Of course the body is a machine. It is vastly complex, many times more complicated than any machine ever made with hands; but still after all a machine. It has been likened to a steam machine. But that was before we knew as much about the way it works as we know now. It really is a gas engine; like the engine of an automobile, a motor boat or a flying machine."If the body were a machine, Turing wondered: is it possible to artificially create such a contraption that could think like he did? This year is Turing's centenary so would he be impressed or disappointed at the state of artificial intelligence? Do the extraordinary machines we've built since Turing's paper get close to human intelligence? Can we bypass millions of years of evolution to create something to rival the power of the 1.5kg of grey matter contained between our ears? How do we actually quantify human intelligence to be able to say that we have succeeded in Turing's dream? Or is the search to recreate "us" a red herring? Should we instead be looking to create a new sort of machine intelligence different from our own?Last year saw one of the major landmarks on the way to creating artificial intelligence. Scientists at IBM programmed a computer called Watson to compete against the best the human race has to offer in one of America's most successful game shows:Jeopardy!It might at first seem a trivial target to create a machine to compete in a general knowledge quiz. But answering questions such as: "William Wilkinson'sAn account of the principalities of Wallachia and Moldaviainspired this author's most famous novel" requires a very sophisticated piece of programming that can return the answer quickly enough to beat your rival to the buzzer. This was in fact the final question in the face-off with the two all-time champions of the game show. With the answer "Who is Bram Stoker?"Watson claimed theJeopardy!crown.Watson is not IBM's first winner. In 1997 IBM'ssuper computer Deep Blue defeatedreigning world chess champion Garry Kasparov. But competing atJeopardy!is a very different test for a computer.Playing chess requires a deep logical analysis of the possible moves that can be made next in the game. Winning atJeopardy!isabout understanding a question written in natural language and accessing quickly a huge databaseto select the most likely answer in as fast a time as possible. The two sorts of intelligence almost seem perpendicular to each other. The intelligence involved in playing chess feels like a vertical sort of intelligence, penetrating deeply into the logical consequences of the game, whileJeopardy!requires a horizontal thought process, thinking shallowly but expansively over a large data base.The program at the heart of Watson's operating system is particularly sophisticated because it learns from its mistakes. The algorithms that select the most likely answers are tweaked by Watson every time it gets an answer wrong so that next time it gets a similar question it has a better chance of getting it right. This idea of machine learning is a powerful new ingredient in artificial intelligence and is creating machines that are quickly doing things that the programmers hadn't planned for.Despite Watson's win, it did make some very telling mistakes. In the category 'US cities' contestants were asked: "Its largest airport is named for a world war two hero; its second largest for a world war two battle." The humans responded correctly with "Where is Chicago?"Watson went for Toronto, a city that isn't even in the United States.It's this strange answer that gives away that it is a probably a machine rather than a person answering the question. Getting a machine to pass itself off as human was one of the key hurdles that Turing believed a machine would need to pass in order to successfully claim the realisation of artificial intelligence. With the creation of theLoebner prizein 1991, monetary prizes were offered for anyone who could create a chatbot that judges could not distinguish from the chat of a human being. Called theTuring test, many working in AI regard the challenge as something of a red herring. The Loebner prize, in their opinion, has distorted the quest and has proved a distraction from a more interesting goal: creating machine intelligence that is different from our own.The AI community is beginning to question whether we should be so obsessed with recreating human intelligence. That intelligence is a product of millions of years of evolution and it is possible that it is something that will be very difficult to reverse engineer without going through a similar process. The emphasis is now shifting towards creating intelligence that is unique to the machine, intelligence that ultimately can be harnessed to amplify our very own unique intelligence.Already the descendants of Deep Blue are performing tasks that no human brain could get anywhere near.Blue Genecan perform 360 trillion operations a second, which compares with the 3 billion instructions per second that an average desktop computer can perform. This extraordinary firepower is being used to simulate the behaviour of molecules at an atomic level to explore how materials age, how turbulence develops in liquids, even the way proteins fold in the body. Protein folding is thought to be crucial to a number of degenerative diseases so these computer simulations could have amazing medical benefits.But isn't this number-crunching rather than the emergence of a new intelligence? The machine is just performing tasks that have been programmed by the human brain. It may be able to completely outperform my brain in any computational activity but when I'm doing mathematics my brain is doing so much more than just computation.  It is working subconsciously, making intuitive leaps. I'm using my imagination to create new pathways which often involve an aesthetic sensibility to arrive at a new mathematical discovery. It is this kind of activity that many of us feel is unique to the human mind and not reproducible by machines.For me, a test of whether intelligence is beginning to emerge is when you seem to be getting more out than you put in. Machines are human creations yet when what they produce is beginning to surprise the creators then I think you're getting something interesting emerging.Exciting new research is currently exploring how creative machines can be in music and art. Stravinsky once wrote that he could only be creative by working within strict constraints: "My freedom consists in my moving about within the narrow frame that I have assigned myself for each one of my undertakings." By understanding the constraints that produce exciting music, computer engineers atSony's Computer Science Laboratory in Parisare beginning to produce machines that create new and unique forms of musical composition. One of the big successes has been to produce a machine that can do jazz improvisation live with human players. The result has surprised those who have trained for years to achieve such a facility.Other projects have explored how creative machines can be at producing visual art.The Painting Foolis a computer program written by Simon Colton of Imperial College. Not everyone likes the art produced by the Painting Fool but it would be anaemic art if they did. What's extraordinary is that the programmes in these machines are learning, and changing and evolving so that very soon the programmer no longer has a clear idea of how the results are being achieved and what it is likely to do next. It is this element of getting more out than you put in that represents something approaching emerging intelligence.For me one of the most striking experiments in AI is the brainchild of the director of the Sony lab in Paris, Luc Steels. He has created machines that can evolve their own language. A population of 20 robots are first placed one by one in front of a mirror and they begin to explore the shapes they can make using their bodies in the mirror. Each time they make a shape they create a new word to denote the shape. For example the robot might choose to name the action of putting the left arm in a horizontal position. Each robot creates its own unique language for its own actions.The really exciting part is when these robots begin to interact with each other. One robot chooses a word from its lexicon and asks another robot to perform the action corresponding to that word. Of course the likelihood is that the second robot hasn't a clue. So it chooses one of its positions as a guess. If they've guessed correctly the first robot confirms this and if not shows the second robot the intended position.The second robot might have given the action its own name, so it won't yet abandon its choice, but it will update its dictionary to include the first robot's word. As the interactions progress the robots weight their words according to how successful their communication has been, downgrading those words where the interaction failed. The extraordinary thing is that after a week of the robot group interacting with each other a common language tends to emerge. By continually updating and learning, the robots have evolved their own language. It is a language that turns out to be sophisticated enough to include words that represent the concept of "left" and "right". These words evolve on top of the direct correspondence between word and body position. The fact that there is any convergence at all is exciting but the really striking fact for me is that these robots have a new language that they understand yet the researchers at the end of the week do not comprehend until they too have interacted and decoded the meaning of these new words.Turing might be disappointed that in his centenary year there are no machines that can pass themselves off as humans but I think that he would be more excited by the new direction artificial intelligence has taken. The AI community is no longer obsessed with reproducing human intelligence, the product of millions of years of evolution, but rather in evolving something new and potentially much more exciting.Marcus du Sautoy is Simonyi professor for the public understanding of science and a professor of mathematics at the University of Oxford.■
