The first European generation that grew up accessing the web has come of age and is changing the way the internet is being used, according to new research released today.Internet usage is booming across Europe with over half of internet users now going online at least once a day, according to the annual Mediascope survey by the European Interactive Advertising Association.But usage is being driven by the 25- to 34-year-old age group, many of whom were originally shown the internet when at school. They were the first generation that flocked to Google to navigate their new environment, having started with sites such as Lycos, Excite and AltaVista.They were the original users of MySpace and the first people to experiment with user-generated content sites such as YouTube, having grown bored of the portals their internet service providers offered.Their tastes - for email and instant messaging then music downloads and funny videos - have influenced the development of the web. But now they have got money and - in some cases - families and responsibilities and they are changing the way the internet is used."One of the things that has come through strongly this year is that people are using the internet more to manage their lives," explained EIAA executive director Alison Fennah. "With the 25- to 34-year-olds what you are seeing is a mixture of the fact that they are natural internet users, they know their way around the web, with their movement towards more mature types of lifestyle management as they themselves mature."The new survey - of over 9,000 people across the UK, France, Spain, Italy, Germany, Belgium, Scandinavia and the Netherlands - shows 25- to 34-year-old spend 13.9 hours a week on the internet - up almost an hour in the past year alone and well above the average - with over a third clocking up more than 16 hours. Two-thirds of them are online every day. Half of them regularly use social networking sites and a quarter maintain their own digital profiles.But they are also responsible for the rise in the use of the internet for functions such as managing finances and accessing health or local government information.Slackers take charge of their financesAs if to underline the ascendancy of the internet's equivalent of the baby boomers, HarperCollins announced earlier this week that the word "meh" will be included in the 30th anniversary edition of the Collins English Dictionary.The word is synonymous with the hard to please, blasé attitude of the technologically literate. It rose to fame on The Simpsons but has been all over the internet for years, used by bloggers as the ultimate slacker put-down. The dictionary defines it as either an interjection used to suggest indifference or boredom, or an adjective used when something is mediocre or a person is unimpressed.Almost three quarters - 73% - of European internet users, and there are 178 million online each week, state that as a result of the web they are staying in touch with friends and relatives more, while 54% say they have booked more holidays or made more travel arrangements. Almost half Europe's internet users add that they are better able to manage their finances because of the web, a trend that is driven by the web-boom generation.This year's Mediascope study is the just the latest and comparing it with previous surveys shows the rise in web usage among European consumers. The average time spent online by the region's internet users is now 12 hours, up 36% on four years ago, while the percentage of people who spend 16 hours or more online has grown to almost a third from 17% back in 2004.Consumers are also using the internet more as a research tool before making purchases. In 2004, just 50% of consumers went on to buy something after carrying out research on the internet, that conversion rate is now 87%.Now they have cash in their pockets, the web-literate 25- to 34-year-old generation have helped drive the expansion of e-commerce over the past few years, with everything from clothes to food being bought online, compared with a few years ago when books and DVDs were the big sellers.
Is it possible for some electronic device in an adjoining building to blot out my Wi-Fi signal? My router is close to an adjoining wall in a terraced house, and at particular times of the day (after 5.30pm), my PC cannot detect the router, which is only 2.5 metres away. At other times of the day, the signal reaches through two floors. If I move the router a metre or so away from the offending wall, the PC connects quite happily. Is there any way to identify the offending gadget and persuade its owner to undertake remedial action?Leslie HillWi-Fi uses common 2.4 GHz spectrum that overlaps with lots of other gadgets such as radio-controlled cars, cordless phones, baby monitors, garage door openers, microwave ovens etc. There can be plenty of "spectrum pollution," but I don't know what sort of gadget would have such a strong effect through a wall. Another Wi-Fi router?In general, I'd connect a PC via an Ethernet cable, assuming it's close enough to the router. If forced to use Wi-Fi, I'd try changing the channel. Add or subtract 5 from the channel number previously in use.(Another option in some cases is to switch to the relatively unpolluted 5GHz band used by the superior 802.11a and optionally by 802.11n, but this is not always legal.)If that doesn't work, and you don't have a spectrum analyzer handy, then the quickest and simplest answer is to knock on the door and ask your neighbours what they have next to the adjoining wall. That's what I'd do. Does anyone have a better idea?
AdmitOne'sSecurity Scoutcan tell users apart based on the way they type keystrokes when logging into an account. This is a form of biometric password checking, and we've seen the same kind of approach applied to writing signatures. Online, there's another benefit: it helps identify password sharing. According toVenture Beat:The only way most companies can detect account sharing now is if multiple people try to log into one account at the same time from different locations. But AdmitOne uses a combination of the keystroke identification, the digital fingerprints of the computer used, and the Internet Protocol (IP) address of the Internet connection used to access the account.The story says:The Security Scout software needs 12 keystrokes to recognize a user. On those keystrokes, the software records 47 different measurements. Among the important measurements are "dwell time," or the amount of time someone holds down a key and "flight time," or the time between keystrokes.  Security Scout then presents the data on the account sharing in a graphical way.AdmitOne's big advantage is that it works without needing any specialised hardware.
"She looks innocent enough – a happy woman who has a twinkle in her eye and loves to cook – but if you take just a minute to think about what happens to the animals who are killed for Mama's meals, a fun cooking game no longer seems quite so innocent..."So says animal rights charityPETA, which yesterday launched its ownAnti-Cooking Mamagame, in which users must pluck and stuff a broiler-reared turkey, 40 million of which are killed every Christmas in the US. Most will have been reared in packed, windowless warehouses, rife with disease. It says here.PETA's beef (ha ha) with Cooking Mama is that the game features lots of meat receipes. From the Peta statement: "If Mama knew what happened to animals on factory farms, she very well might want Majesco Entertainment to make a new Cooking Mama game that is much more animal-friendly."The game is short, but quite amusing, especially the bit where you have to remove the turkey's bodily organs and slop them into the bowl.(ViaCasualgaming.biz)
One of the biggest photo collections in the world that ranges from the 1880s through to the seminal moments of the 20th century and on into the present day was made available to the public online from today.The bulk of the archive is from Life magazine, the premier platform for photojournalists in the 20th century.About 10m images will be available, from Marilyn Monroe and JFK to Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. About 97% of the pictures have never been seen before.Google announced today it had done a deal with Life to put their pictures online. Also available is work from other archives, much of it collected by the former Time publisher, Henry Luce.The collection includes the entire works of Life photographers Alfred Eisenstaedt, Gjon Mili and Nina Leen. Also available are: the Zapruder film of the Kennedy assassination; Dahlstrom glass plates of New York from the 1880's; and Hugo Jaeger Nazi-era Germany 1937-1944.RJ Pittman, director of product management at Google, said: "We are very excited to bring this amazing collection of photos and etchings form the archives to the internet."With so many never before seen images, this is going to be a real benefit to the public."Among pictures he thought had not been seen before was one of London Bridge from the 1800s.About 20% of the collection went online today.Dawn Bridges, a spokeswoman for TimeInc, the archives in their entirety would be available in the first quarter of next year. She said it was would not just be historical. "We will be adding new things. There will be thousands of new pictures from DC for the inauguration on January 20," she said.Life magazine is now defunct but lives on on the internet as Life.com.Millions of images have been scanned and made available on Google Image Search.Google, in a press statement, said: "The effort to bring offline images online was inspireed by our mission to organise all the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful."It added: "Only a small percentage of these images have ever been published. The rest have been sitting in dusty archives in the form of negatives, slides, glass plates, etchings and prints."
Paul Carr is in charge of the programme again - this week joined by Charles Arthur and Jemima Kiss.Bobbie Johnson also takes part, interviewing Saul Griffith, an Australian inventor, engineer and author who also finds time to act as an adviser to Popular Mechanics and Make magazine. After getting a PhD from MIT he formed a think tank (or a "do tank") called SQUID labs with a few friends, based in San Francisco and they focused on innovative new technologies. So they've spun off projects including a new low-cost technique for manufacturing glasses, how-to website Instructables and human-generated power company Potenko. Last year he won a $500k Macarthur Genius grant and now he's working forthcoming wind energy company Makani. He talks to Bobbie about the process of inventing, and how he comes up with ideas.We also hear what happened when the Guardian's web developers were freed from their work (y'know, keeping the site running and all that - did you notice?) and allowed to create whatever they wanted - within 24 hours.  The first (of hopefully many) hack days was a huge success, and Jemima and Charles speak to some of the developers and organisers.All this, plus your blog comments and this week's news (including a brief visit from the Mars Phoenix twitter feed).Don't forget to:• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
The second version of LG's collaboration with Italian fashion label Prada in the mobile phone market will hit the shops tomorrrow.Anyone looking for a touchscreen phone this festive season will be spoilt for choice, with the LG Prada II competing with the likes of Apple's iPhone, BlackBerry's Storm and the T-Mobile G1.LG hopes the Prada II will build on the success of its predecessor in the high-end mobile handset market – Prada I has sold more than 1m handsets globally since its launch last year.It was targeted at fashion-conscious customers, with the focus on elegant display and intelligent touchscreen function. But from initial publicity shots, Prada II looks like a concerted effort by LG to grab some market share from BlackBerry, in particular. The phone keeps the three-inch touchscreen, but has added a slide-out Qwerty keyboard and a 5-megapixel camera.The market has grown more crowded since Prada I was released, with the launch of the iPhone and Nokia entering the high-end segment with the Xpress Music series. And with gloomy retail forecasts for Christmas, it remains to be seen whether the Korean company can continue its whirlwind run since entering the mobile phone business a few years ago.No details yet on whether the phone will only be sold in conjunction with a particular provider, like the iPhone, or if it will come unlocked to any sim card. Speculation on the internet sets the possible price of the handset at about £400.
Yahoo co-founder Jerry Yang still hasn't learned how to use capital letters, but maybe he can use his spare time to sign up for a typing course. Anyway, he has written to his beleaguered staff to say: "I have agreed to initiate a succession process for the ceo role of yahoo!" --Reutershas published the memo. Yang says, somewhat optimistically:despite the external environment we face, the fact remains that yahoo! is now a significantly different company that is stronger in many ways than it was just 18 months ago. this only makes it all the more essential that we manage this opportunity to leverage the progress up to this point as effectively as possible.There's also a press release written by someone who can use capital letters:Yahoo! Conducting Search for New CEO.Bobbie Johnson has alreadyreported the story.Yahoo is now worth about a third of the Microsoft takeover bid, and under normal circumstances, you'd expect its shares to rise. You can follow their progress atYahoo Finance.
WithJerry Yang stepping down at Yahoo, the company's board now has the task of finding his successor. It will be looking for someone who can offer the leadership and vision that Yang struggled to articulate, and a steady pair of hands to calm the jittery investors who have watched the company dump 60% of its share value in the past year.Jonathan MillerMiller spent four years running AOL, starting in 2002, and during that period masterminded the company's attempt to reinvent its business – moving it away from the closed-off internet provider model in favour of creating a new web media company along the same lines as Yahoo. In doing so he embellished his reputation as a strategic thinker – but still failed to avoid being replaced in 2006.His involvement could help tie up Yahoo's much-mentioned, never-finished takeover of AOL – which he advocated during his time at the company – and with good links in the advertising industry he could be a serious contender. It remains to be seen, however, whether his vision for Yahoo would be a little out of date in 2008.Meg WhitmanThe former CEO of eBay – who quit the auction website earlier this year – had been hoping to score a cabinet position if her friend and supporter John McCain had won the US presidential election. With Barack Obama preparing to take office, however, she is looking at her options once again (her retinue has been touting the idea of a run for the governor of California in 2010, when Arnold Schwarzenegger's term expires).But since leaving eBay, Whitman's reputation has plunged. At eBay she presided over a number of debatable acquisitions, leaving the company struggling to meet its targets, on the brink of widespread layoffs and – crucially – short of ideas. With Yahoo suffering from exactly the same malaise, the company's board may find it hard to warm to her.Sue DeckerCurrently Yahoo's president, Decker is probably the leading inside contender to take up the mantle of CEO. An eight-year veteran of the company, she is largely credited with helping oust former Yahoo boss Terry Semel, and last year looked a likely candidate for the CEO herself. Instead her coup ushered in Yang's reign, and her reputation became intimately connected with his. As one of the company's major power brokers, Decker has seemed helpless as a host of top executives have quit the company in the past year, and her political capital has waned accordingly.While her previous tactics have helped a company in a tight spot find some wriggle room, it now seems she has helped it to wedge itself even further down a hole.Peter CherninAs Rupert Murdoch's second-in-command at News Corporation, Chernin has built a formidable reputation – and yet seems unlikely ever to take the top job as Murdoch's son James continues his rise up the corporate ladder. The New Yorker's contract comes up for renewal next year, however, and rumours abound that he is paving the way to take up a high-profile job running another major media company.His influence and connections are second to none, but even though Yang's run at the top of Yahoo has been ignominious, board members may remember former CEO Terry Semel: another Hollywood-style businessman with limited internet experience.Steve BallmerThere are no suggestions that Microsoft's bullish chief executive would quit to lead a rival company, but the longer Yahoo goes without finding a viable replacement for Yang, the more tempted Ballmer could be to step in once more and try to buy his Californian competitor. Although he said recently that he was no longer interested in the deal, Yahoo's perilously low share price – just a quarter of that offered by Microsoft in February – could prove too enticing.With the company's leadership in crisis, and Yang out of the way,Ballmer could be ready to seize the moment.
The annualSouth by Southwest Interactiveevent has become the must-go party of the year for people who like to make digitalia. It's a place where gamers hobnob with new media types, and pick up the occasional pop star who's arrived a couple of days too early for the celebrated Music festival. And of course it's got the annualScreenburngame design competition.It's also a good opportunity for companies interested in pimping their products overseas to meet, greet and rub shoulders with international investors. Apparently the ratio of VCs to fundees increases every year.If you've got a project you want to pitch or if you fancy starting up something beautiful in the US, there's a programme that can soften the blow and make your landing a little easier. It's calledDigital Mission- some may recall the one I went on toNew Yorkearlier this year with 21 hopeful games and new media types. I also joined the Mission to Tokyo, where 14 games companies got to see the infamousGame Showfirsthand.As well as the networking opportunities, the Mission also offers access to and information about the nuts and bolts of starting an office - or a company - Stateside. I'll be onboard again in March when we hit the Austin nightlife (there's an awesome country dancing bar just outside the city limits...), and there are a few places left for those who wish to join.Apply for the Digital Mission here, on London-based social media company Chinwag's page. They organise the mission programme and parties (piggybacking on the annual Great British Breakfast, for one) and the UKTI stumps up the cash. You'll have to act quickly though; applications are due byMonday 24 November. Go go go! And bring your cowboy boots, partner.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
It has been one of the most drawn-out goodbyes in recent history, but last nightYahooboss Jerry Yang finally gave in to his critics as he announced his decision to step down as the company's chief executive.Months after scuttling apotential $44bn takeover by Microsoft, the 40-year-old confirmed that he would be resigning his post – but only once a suitable successor has been found.The decision brings to an end a long period of speculation over Yang's future at the top of the company he helped found in 1994.In a statement Yahoo chairman Roy Bostock said he was "deeply grateful" to Yang, but would be starting a search for a new leader who could "take the company to the next level"."Jerry and the board have had an ongoing dialogue about succession timing, and we all agree that now is the right time to make the transition to a new CEO," Bostock said.Although the timing of the announcement came as a surprise, it had been widely predicted that Yang's tenure was drawing to a close, particularly following severe criticism over his handling of a $44bn takeover bid from Microsoft earlier this year."Having set Yahoo on a new, more open path, the time is right for me to transition the CEO role and our global talent to a new leader," he said in a statement. "I will continue to focus on global strategy and to do everything I can to help Yahoo realise its full potential."Yang was a surprise choice for the job when he took over 18 months ago, succeeding former Hollywood executive Terry Semel. Although he had helped start the internet company 14 years ago, he did not have experience running a large company and campaigned largely on his passion.Although his dedication and commitment have never been questioned – just a few days ago he told a crowd at theWeb 2.0 Summit in San Francisco that he would "run through walls" for Yahoo– his shortcomings were cruelly exposed by events both outside and within his control.Yahoo's share price has been hammered during the financial crisis and profits for the last quarter showed a drastic drop. That news led the company to confirm last month that it planned to shed around 1,500 jobs – cuts that come on top of another 1,000 layoffs in January.Even taking into account the tough economic conditions, Yahoo has suffered more than most, with its stock falling below $10 a share last week – down from highs of $30 earlier this year.But it is the botched negotiations with Microsoft which will linger in the memory and did the most damage to Yang's reputation.After the failure of his drawn-out negotiations with the Seattle software company, many investors felt that Yang had deliberately scuppered the Microsoft deal in order to keep the company independent. Among those fiercely critical of the approach was corporate raider Carl Icahn, who threatened a hostile takeover of the Yahoo board.But although Yang recently insisted that there was "no poison pill" approach to the Microsoft offer, his critics remained vocal, particularly after Yahoo's share price continued to plunge.By the end of his term Yang must have felt like the chief executive's job was a poisoned chalice.Even his attempt to come up with a profitable alternative to the Microsoft deal – a multimillion-dollar advertising agreement with rival Google – failed after Google decided to pull out following an investigation by the US Department of Justice.The decision to step down will come as a painful personal blow to Yang, who founded Yahoo with Stanford friend David Filo in 1994 and has regularly stated his commitment to the site.The 40-year-old billionaire said he had always acted in the company's interests, and planned to retain his former title of "chief Yahoo" and stay heavily involved in decision-making."I have always sought to do what is best for our franchise," said Yang in a statement. "When the board asked me to become CEO and lead the transformation of the company, I did so because it was important to re-envision the business for a different era."But with Yahoo on the rocks after a tumultuous year, his time at the top was looking increasingly limited."The company is in desperate need of change, and this is clearly one way to do it," Ross Sandler, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets told Reuters.It is not yet clear who the leading contenders to take over Yang's job are, but Bostock said the board would vet candidates from inside the company and from elsewhere in the business world.
Great little example of the way bad information spreads - and could be corrected (but isn't) - out there on the internet today.This weekend was the birthday party of one Charles Windsor, known to his friends as thePrince of Wales. He's got a few big name mates - and they were all headed to his birthday party.Telegraphgot a look at the guest list, saying "Celebrity friends who were invited to the Prince's Gloucestershire home are understood to have included Stephen Fry, Meera Syal and Sanjeev Bhaskar".But by the time that theSunday Timesgot round to reporting the party, we heard that that guest list had firmed up:"Seventy-five guests, including the television stars Stephen Fry and Dame Judi Dench, began to arrive at Highgrove, the country home of Charles and Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall, shortly before six o'clock yesterday for an evening of entertainment, celebration and the prince's own organic food."The details are so colourful I can almost hear their jowls chomping away from here.Except thanks to social media we can be pretty certain that the facts were a bit skewiff... at least one guest, Stephen Fry, wasn't there.Anyone who followshis immense stream of Twitter updates(40 in the last 24 hours alone) will know that he's been travelling back to the UK from Madagascar where he's been doing some filming.The Times wasn't the only one who simply decided everyonewho was invited turned up. And OK, it's hardly scandalous ... but come on, really?
At least one source of domestic strife is to be banished from the Obama White House: Barack Obama is under pressure to give up his beloved BlackBerry. Aides worry his email could get hacked and, no less serious, all presidential correspondence is meant to be retained for posterity. They reportedly want to do what Michelle Obama - who was recently spotted slapping her husband's hand as he checked email during his daughters' soccer game - has probably itched to do for years: grab the machine out of Obama's tightly curled fist, shove it in a drawer and lock it away for ever.As someone who has wrestled with CrackBerry addiction myself, I want to reassure the new president that he can get through this. He needs to focus on the positive: now, at last, time off really will be time off. On long journeys, he can gaze out of the window, rather than have his head down, glued to a little screen. Family time really will be family time, not just hours spent with his body present but his mind still at work. He will find his mental batteries start recharging, the creative thoughts flowing again - because, with the BlackBerry gone, he will be able to step off the hamster wheel and think.I want to say all those things and yet I hesitate. For the President of the United States may be the one person in the world who really does need a BlackBerry. Not because he is so important and therefore must be able to deal with issues instantly: that was true of his predecessors in the non-BlackBerry era and somehow they managed. No, Obama needs a BlackBerry so that he can have at least one line out to the real world, a source of information - and casual communication with friends - that does not have to first pass through the filter of his advisers. Most of us would have more human contact if we gave up our BlackBerries: Obama may be a rare case of the reverse.
Microsoft has been talking about Software as a Service (SaaS) for years, and this morning in San Francisco, its Business Divisionannounced the availability of Microsoft Exchange Online and Microsoft SharePoint Online, in the US only, viahttp://www.microsoft.com/onlinePrices range from $3 to $15 per user per month.(The UK launch is expected early next year, perhaps when the new Dublin data centre comes online.)Microsoft has been running the US service since March and reckons it has about half a million users from companies such as Pitney Bowes, Eddie Bauer and Fair Isaac. About 18,000 organisations took part in the beta. Through working with customers, Microsoft has developed automated tools and instruction kits to help people move from an in-house to an online service. SeeMicrosoft Solution Accelerators.It's a tricky area for Microsoft because it has lots of partners who already offer hosted software, especially Microsoft Exchange. Since Microsoft is building vast, automated data centres, it could undercut them on price. At worst, it's bound to put a ceiling on what they can realistically charge. However, they could also start selling Microsoft's service. Microsoft's press release says:Since July 2008, more than 1,500 companies have enrolled in the Microsoft Partner Program for Microsoft Online Services, with 100 more joining every week. These companies are realizing a wide range of revenue opportunity that spans reselling, migration, customization, consulting, training, support and application development, and integration services.This approach should be attractive for now because there are plenty of prospects to convert. It will be even more attractive when Microsoft adds more software (Office, CRM etc) and starts running third-party code on its servers, which it doesn't at the moment. In the long run, however, partners will be putting the work into converting companies who will then be paying Microsoft for years if not decades.That's the real beauty of the "cloud computing", of course: customers have to keep paying.Of course, Microsoft won't want to make its online service too cheap, or existing software customers will move, and thus reduce Microsoft's income. However, it will want it to be cheap enough to prevent too many small companies from defecting to Google, while encouraging bigger companies to defect from IBM's Lotus Notes.Purists will rightly object that this isn't actually "cloud computing," it's just a new remote hosting service, and Microsoft and its partners have had those all century. Including a hosted online Microsoft Office. When Microsoft last launched this sort of stuff in June 2000, the hosts were called"application service providers"and you accessed your apps via IE4. (And Citrix was around long before that.)However, virtualisation technology has improved a lot since then, and server and bandwidth prices have come down dramatically. (You'll need lots of bandwidth.) Also, Microsoft will be able to move its hosted services into a real cloud infrastructure whenAzureis ready, and users won't know the difference.
Last week, I got my first hands-on time with a selection of iPhone titles, courtesy of ever-reliable French publisher, Gameloft (reminds me, I'd better send their phone back...). I was struck by the successful implementations of the device's accelerometer and touchscreen controls, especially in Real Football - I never thought I'd get used to thumbing players in order to direct them - and Asphalt GT, where you tilt the screen to steer your car.Anyway, as this is the extent of my direct experience with the platform so far, I asked Stuart Dredge of the excellentPocketGamerto come up with five unmissable iPhone games. Here's what he suggests...Real Football 2009A lack of physical buttons should rule out a decent football game, but Real Football 2009 proves otherwise, via a virtual on-screen D-pad. Plus it has ace 3D visuals and TV-style presentation, and bags of competitions to play in.TrismThere are plenty of match-three puzzlers already on iPhone, but Trism is the most original and addictive. You move lines of triangle-shaped Trisms to make like-coloured groups disappear, while tilting the iPhone to adjust how they fall onto the screen.Spore OriginsOn one level, this is just a tarted up version of the existing Spore Origins mobile game. But the tilt controls are great, as is the new camera feature, letting you take a snap of anything and use it as your Spore's skin texture.Crash Bandicoot Nitro Kart 3DOne of the first bona-fide hits on the App Store, this kart game makes great use of the iPhone's accelerometer and touchscreen, while offering decent 3D graphics and a sense of progression through the game.The Stone of DestinyThe hidden-objects genre has been huge in the casual games market, and this is the best example on iPhone so far, working the basic 'scan the screen to find certain objects' gameplay into a wider puzzly adventure.
Win Mirror's Edge!As you know, production of The Guardian's home-brewed text adventureSpaceship!is winding down, with the aim oflaunching at an event in Brightonthe second week of December. To launch in style, we need some shiny Cover Art, and we'd like to extend the the offer to you, dear readership.Be our cover artiste and win  a copy of the phenomenally stylishMirror's Edge!Submit your cover art competition entries tothe gamesblog's Flickr poolor to gamesblog +at+ gmail.com byFriday 21 Novemberand the Wikigame team will pick the winner at our weekly Monday meeting.Want to know what to make? Check outSpaceship!and be inspired. You don't have to play it in one sitting, either. At any point, type 'save'. When you want to start afresh, type 'restore' and your last place will magically appear. Isn't technology amazing?We'll announce the winner next Tuesday.And if art isn't your thing, you can still join the fun and get a credit bytesting the game.
Like an unreliable friend turning up to the pub two hours late then asking if he can borrow twenty quid til next Tuesday, Best of Chatterbox stumbles back for another round-up of golden chatter. Once again, Limni has taken on the not-inconsiderable task of editing five(ish) days worth of heated debate into one snack-sized portion. Although, this one's more of a five course meal...So, if you're looking for opinion on LittleBigPlanet, end-of-level bosses and/or the ultimate DJ set, you've come to... a place which, under certain definitions of the word, could be considered 'right'...Part one: the game reviewsLittleBigPlanetGenerally a lot of love for this, with only one dissenting voice from NickT.GranaryThorax:It looks great and story mode is really well designed (if not very long). So far the highlight for me has been playing in local co-op - very funny in a slapstick kind-of-way. I was a bit dubious about the quality of the user-created levels but I played a few highly rated ones and found they were good fun.Silverfox:Me and the Mrs had a quick blast on this yesterday afternoon. She seemed to really enjoy it and liked messing about with the stickers and decorations. Had a quick look at some of the online levels and they looked excellent as well.NickT:Played it and the novelty disappeared after about an hour, I don't think I'll be playing this much, I really can't be arsed making my own levels and I'm getting really frustrated with the content on there including the campaign stuff. I find controlling Sackboy quite difficult and can never figure out what plain he is walking on. Constantly falling off the same ledge at the same point gets very grating.Cameroon95:Awesome game but the jumping sometimes just feels wrong if anyone can dig me? Just on the safari level, the imagination of the creators is amazing. My girlfriend really wants to play it too.OfficePest:Possibly one of the most relaxing games ever, made even more so by Stephen Fry's dulcet tones. Also a potential time killer. I stuck it on at half 10 and the next thing I knew it, it was 1am. I played Chubster's level - very good, although incredibly annoying at times!Gears of War 2The praise was more or less unanimous for the big Xbox360 shooter, although Timmmy and LarryLoxley have some concerns.BeardofBees:It's no snub to Fallout (cracking game) but it was Gears, Gears, Gears all the way for me. Campaign is a blast and multiplayer is oh so much fun, a few matchmaking delays excepted (hopefully this will settle down soon).Timmmy:Gears seems alright - more of the same, story is a bit more fleshed out this time - just a shame you seem to spend the majority of the game underground this time round.LarryLoxley:Think I must be coming to the end of the campaign. A bit disappointed as it seems rather short. Multiplayer is fantastic. Really enjoying Horde and Wingman.BillyBrush:Loved it...not quite finished but prob very close...the scale of some of the environs you're in is incredible, can't think of anything with quite such graphics and scale to it.Umborous23:Gears is more of the same, with improvements, a much better Campaign than the first (if only marginally longer).HDStanton:I'm very impressed with Gears. It's taken the original and just expanded it. Just seems so much better. Great great game.Fallout 3Again high praise from most with some concerns about bugs from Vetboy.Sorbicol:Weekend playing Fallout 3 - just how good is this game? Game of the Year for me. If I was rating it would be 9.5/10. Lose half a mark cos of the random crashes on the PC version :(CheddarFrenzy:Fallout 3 - is very, very good indeed. After about 10 hours, I think I can fairly safely say it is the best game I have played this gen so far.Timmmy:Said it before and I'll say it again, Fallout really is the game of the year for me - can't see any title changing my mind either.Simian:first real chance to get a good session in and all I can say is wow, I completely lost track of over 4 hours of my life and I'm happy with that!Vetboy:For anyone wondering about getting Fallout 3, it might be best to hold off until Bethesda have got a couple of patches out, it's by no means unplayable but I've had a couple of side quests that I haven't been able to finish (or at least not the way I should have been able to). Looking at the official Fallout 3 boards, looks like most bugs are across all three versions.Lamontange:The more I play the better it gets; always tinged, however, with the nagging skepticism I feel whenever I bring up the pip boy and see that I am half way to my level cap (20? 20? Rubbish I say).Part two: you're not the boss of meAn interesting post from Yorkiebar about Dead Space kicked off a discussion around boss battles in modern games:Finished Dead Space last night. I have to say, I loved it almost totally. It was one hell of a ride, and because I can't face that level of tension again for a little while it's on EBay already.But, as much as I loved it, I must make the inevitable shout of "WHY!?!?!?!?!" because my most loathed feature of video gaming popped up more than once, and almost ruined the end of Dead Space for me: bloody-bastardy-end-of-level-bosses. What are they for? Why do they make them so freckin' hard and unrepentantly repetitive? Honestly, I don't half get grumpy when after enjoying a game so much they spoil the ending with a pointlessly repetitive and over- the-top difficult boss fight. Rubbish.I think a blanket ban on boss fights should be brought in across the video game industry and make those game design idiots think of something more entertaining instead. I like the endings to Halo and Halo 3 in this respect: no end-of-level boss, just a race to the finish line. Brilliant.I can think of several games I have abandoned at the final hurdle because the boss fight was a combination of too hard and too repetitive. They are rubbish.So, anyway, Dead Space = all manner of aces but boss fights (in general) are crap.Quite a few replies to this, some in agreement and others with a different viewpoint as follows:CBPodge:See, I quite like boss fights, but not in FPSs (because "shoot it loads of times" isn't anywhere near as fun a solution as "batter the f*ck out of it with an unfeasibly large sword"). Devil May Cry is generally speaking absolutely brilliant for boss fights. Still - boss fights against fun, non-cheap bosses where the battle is at least vaguely varied - great fun. Boss fights where you just shoot them or something - feels like a chore.Killerbee:I'm not against boss fights completely, but I do hate those that crop up to impede your progress with arbitrarily unfair difficulty spikes. The trick should always be working out how to beat the boss, not just a matter of pummeling away and trying to stay alive. But I do think boss fights are important because they deliver the defining set pieces of games - you wouldn't want to get to the end of a game, meet your nemesis and take him out with a single bullet, would you? It'd be a total anti-climax. Beating a boss delivers a real sense of achievement and should definitely remain.Smike:You feel you need something at the end of a game or level to give it a good finish but I'm against boss fights usually because of their tediousness. The worst ones are those with a series of rounds where the boss has a certain set of attacks and weaknesses each round which you have to learn.BeardofBees:Personally, I really like having a final nemesis that you take out with a single bullet/hit whatever. There have been a few games that this happens on, I won't spoil any of the more recent ones by mentioning them, but going back to Final Fantasy VII can't hurt. The thing is, the guy you're after is so powerful you've been afraid of him the whole game, but it's a story of self-discovery and surpassing your potential - by the time you finally catch him, you're stronger than he is. Of course, you've got to deal with his minions so the final boss battle is actually some sort of crazy-ass monster form of the dude, but when that's over all that's left is the man himself - and he goes down in one strike from the hero. I like it. The real challenge was the journey, dealing with the plots and plans of the villain, not the villain himself.Zelos:Multiple linked boss fights or boss fights with stages like Metroid Prime's final boss with no save points in between should be illegal. I liked Half Life 2's final 'boss', where it's basically a really intense version of what you've been doing for the rest of the game. Bosses with set attack patterns you have to learn or completely different rules from the rest of the game are very annoying.Makar27:Most annoying one for me was Rolo to the Rescue on the Mega Drive. A fantastic game hidden behind a layer of 'cuteness' but the final boss was hard as nails and very unforgiving (get hit once and you're dead - they don't make 'em like that anymore). Don't think I ever finished it, which is a pity...Sheep2:Surely it depends on how they are done? Bosses should have powers/ health commensurate with the rest of the game. They should not have the ability to take multiple rockets to the face. Too often the bosses are merely a way of marking the end of each stage. They are absurdly powerful because this means that the designers don't need a well written AI sequence for the boss. Instead they can simply rely on its power to compensate for the rubbish-ness of its pre-scripted sequences. Personally, I quite like finding out that the chaos of a game has been caused by a single small bloke, who offers no resistance when cornered.Sever:Boss battles should be about taking all you've learnt in the course of the game, pushing you to your limit and AI that keeps on changing! That's a must! Especially if it's the end game boss! A lot of bosses do feel a bit tacked on at the moment, rather than very robust.Sorbicol:Can't way I really go for games with Final boss battles per se. I hated the end of the COD4 because there is nothing you can do to change the ending, and is something of a let down after the fantastic escape of the village mission. The final bosses in both Bioshock and Crysis showed a complete lack of imagination - shoot dodge, shoot dodge, shoot dodge. Boring!!!(I have to say I disagree here – I loved the ending of COD4. Limni.)Crispycrumb:I've lost count of the number of games I haven't finished because of a stupid repetitive boss battle. What's really bad is when it's in an RPG and you realize that you're simply not a high enough level to win, that's just shoddy design as the game should always get you to a point where it's possible even if you've whizzed through.Gurner:I hate boss battles. They've pretty much ruined a lot of games for me as it's taken so long to get past them that the charm has gone by the time I'm done with them, and then it's a chore. Sometimes I've even been unable to get past the, like the super-soldier in Return to Castle Wolfenstein.Part three: musical youthsAlfienoakes is to blame for this one – mentioning the first album he ever bought caused a mini-flood of replies from other bloggers only too eager to share their own story. In some cases they might have been better off keeping quiet (I'm looking at you, Craggyisland and HDStanton):Alfienoakes and Ghostdaz - Kings of the Wild Frontier by Adam and the Ants (me too! Keef)Craggyisland – Hunting High and Low by A-HaLimni and Lazybones – Raw Like Sushi by Neneh CherryBeardofBees – Definitely Maybe by OasisAlimantado – Anywayawanna by The BeatmastersLarryLoxley – In Utero by NirvanaCommodoreSchmidlapp and Crispycrumb – Appetite for Destruction by Guns n RosesCameroon95 – Music for the Jilted Generation by The ProdigyChubster2001 – Hysteria by Def LeppardCheddarfrenzy – Bad by Michael JacksonKillerbee – Boss Drum by The ShamenImperfectRex – The Best of Black Lace by Black LaceSheep2 – Queen: The Greatest Hits by QueenUmborous23 – The Real Thing by Faith No moreHDStanton – Songs from the Big Chair by Tears for FearsSmellavision – The War of the Worlds by Jeff WayneDavefalse – Brothers in Arms by Dire StraitsSorbicol – Bridge of Spies by T'PauMidniteCowboy – Human Racing by Nik KershawArtieFufkin – Out of the Blue by Debbie GibsonGreymin – Dark Side of the Moon by Pink FloydEnglishRed – Jollification by The Lightning SeedsPart four: The DJ set list to die for... or, indeed,during...Next up, a cry for help from Fantomex - to paraphrase: 'help I've got a DJ set coming up, please give me some ideas for a playlist thereby doing the important part of my job for me!' The loyal Gamesbloggers responded enthusiastically. I imagine it was quite a night. The set in full:Whitehouse – Just like a c**tYoung MC – So Know HowMonkey Mafia – Make Jah MusicThe Horrorist – One Night in New York CitySubtle – Mercury CrazeSL2 – On a Ragga TipEric B and Rakim – Don't Sweat the TechniquePublic Enemy – Shut 'em Down3rd Bass -Brooklyn QueensBlack Rob - Whoa!Craig Mack - Flava in ya ear (club mix)Grandmaster Flash - Further Adventures on the Wheels of SteelEric B &amp; Rakim - I know you got SoulKRS-1 - MCs act like they don't knowEric Sermon - MusicDead Prez - Hip hopRedman - Dirty (Gorillaz remix)65daysofstatic – Assault on Precinct 65Gang Starr – Blowing Up the PlaceBig L - The Fallback (ft Kool G Rap)Marvelous Man &amp; Cash - Crazy JuiceMicky Finn - Bad AssJungle Brothers - VIPMobb Deep – Shook OnesDJ Hype &amp; The Ganja Kru - Super Sharp ShooterUK Apache &amp; Shy FX - Original NutterThe Freestylers - B-boy Stance (Grooverider Remix)Fallacy &amp; Fusion - Groundbreaker (Shy FX remix)King Cannibal – Aragami StyleRob Base &amp; DJ EZ Rock – It Takes TwoDJ Polo and Kool G Rap - Men at workGang Starr - Check the TechniqueDangerdoom - Sofa KingKidz in the hall - BlackoutJurassic 5 – JayouThemselves- All About the CityPharoah Monch – Simon SaysLadies Love Cool James - The G.O.A.T.Meat Beat Manifesto - Radio BabylonBam Bam - Where's Your ChildMr Fingers - Washing Machine808 State – NewbuildLeftfield – Afrika ShoxQuote of the Week"Played the under-rated classic "Bath Sealant: Revenge of the Neighbor's Damp Ceiling" last night. No shower for me this morning."Thanks Umborous23 - I think I had that on the Spectrum.Other Quotes"Quote of the weekend from my mother, trying to organize a family meal: "Shall we go to that one that's called...oh, it's named after that famous explorer...The one from Tibet...Genghis Khan!""Sounds great, CBPodge. Fermented horse milk as a starter?"Managed to get out surfing on Saturday afternoon. Proper barreling and rough waves. Got caught in a riptide but was able to swim out, unlike some other surfers who had to parallel quite a bit."I don't quite know what ImperfectRex is talking about, but I've got to salute anyone prepared to surf in the UK in November."And when will games makers pander to the needs of cat-lovers by having an AI cat in your game that scratches your furniture, shits on your carpet, and treats you with disdain?"I just can't wait either, Yorkiebar!"I'm going to get a Konami operative round mine, and hold him captive as my personal IT slave."Ports playing up on PES again TonyHayers?"I don't want a Chatterbox every single day!"Cameroon95. Ah, I remember the old days, when we were lucky to get 3 Chatterboxes a week."What the hell IS the modern meaning of the word 'bongo'? To me it is a drum."Poor, innocent BeardofBeesOther mentionsGames:PES2009, Valkyria Chronicles, Mirrors Edge, Far Cry 2, Mass Effect, Burnout Paradise, Spore, Silent Hunter 3, Guitar Hero World Tour, Mario Galaxy, SSX Blur, Left4Dead, Call of Duty – World at WarFilms:Quantum of Solace, Babylon AD, Tropic Thunder, Munich, The Mist, Black Hawk Down, Everything by Akira Kurosawa, Millers CrossingTV:Fringe, The Wire, Heroes, Babylon 5, Battlestar GalacticaBooks:Money, The End of Mr Y, Everything by Neal Stephenson, Ulysses, Don Quixote
It used to be calledFT.com, when being a dotcom was fashionable. Following this month's redesign, however, the site has been renamedFinancial Times, and given a masthead much like the newspaper. The site is also turning pink, to emphasise the resemblance.The new front page comes as a shock. I gave up FT.com many years ago, following a horrible redesign. It had become incredibly cluttered, with lots of useless bits of furniture that slowed the download. The type was too small to read, and the Text Size|Larger command in Internet Explorer didn't make it bigger.Now, of course, it has gone too far the other way. The new front page is mainly noticeable for its wide open spaces. The clutter has gone, but so has most of the content. It's now a fast download, and Text Size|Larger works in IE, though you probably don't need it.The navigation has also changed. FT.com used to have a useful menu down the left hand side of the page. The new front has a horizontal navbar to link to sections such as Companies, Markets, Lex and Comment. Each link triggers a drop-down menu, so you can click Companies then select, say, Telecoms. Follow these links, however, and you're back in FT.com country. Obviously, no newspaper changes its whole site overnight, but it should go beyond the front page.The site still isn't keen on casual visitors. It lets you start browsing, then nags you to register. "You have viewed your 30 days allowance of four free articles," it says. At least it's not trying to charge for individual articles.Free registration lets you read 20 articles every 30 days, which is probably enough for casual visitors. However, "unlimited" use costs £98.99, and if you want to read the popular Lex column, you have to pay £199 for a premium subscription.There was a time when I would have paid. The FT used to offer access to the World Reporter database, which it renamed FT Profile. This was a wonderful database of British and other newspapers going back decades. It vanished around the end of 2001, and now the online archive only covers five years of the Financial Times.The site does, however, have some saving graces for less committed readers. It has a Weekend section for its entertaining magazines, includingHow To Spend It, for the very rich. It also has a dozen freely accessible blogs, which are presented using the new design. There are tech, Westminster, and Brussels blogs, a management blog, an economists' forum, and a few under individual names.There's alsoDear Lucy, where "agony aunt" Lucy Kellaway tackles pressing problems such as "Should I be ashamed for being an investment banker?" and "I'm bored at work, I'm tempted to take three-hour lunches and learn the salsa". Quite.Given the threatened collapse of our financial infrastructure, the FT has a rare opportunity to pull in a lot of new readers. It may not be making the best of it.
Asus isn't exactly a big name in phones, but it has just announced the "Fastest Business PDA Phone in the World" in the form of the P565 Glide. This is a touch-screen Windows Mobile 6.1 phone with Asus's ownGlide interface, powered by an 800MHzMarvellTavorP processor. (This comes out of theIntel XScaleline, which started with the Digital StrongARM design.) Whether or not this is an advantage is a moot point: Asus quotes the talk-time as "3 hrs with 3G and 4 hrs with 2G," which would stop me from buying one even if I could afford it. However, I notice the software includes Business Card Recognition, which is already available on the Asus P505 and P527, as well as the Samsung U600, Sony Ericsson G900, Motorola A1600 and various other phones.Business card recognition and conversion has been around for a long time -- I bought aCorex CardScanmany years ago -- and several companies have developed software to do it on mobile phones, including Abbyy, Penpower and Hotcard. There's alsoNokia Multiscannerfreeware for Symbian (but I don't know if it will run on my Nokia 6630).It seems to me that scanning/character recognition software should be built into every camera phone. Business card recognition may not appeal to that many people, but I can see other uses becoming important. One is just capturing and converting text, such short paragraphs from newspapers and magazines. Of course, you have to capture it before you can translate it using Babelfish, Google Translate or whatever. Scan/translate is a killer app for travellers.Camera phones should also be able to read 2D and 3D bar codes so that you can stand in a shop and look products up on the web, or just catalogue your books/CDs more easily. Very few people will buy a device just to do this, but again, it's a killer app if it's built into your phone.Are you doing his stuff today? If not, why not?
Internet users are being warned to stay vigilant by researchers who believe that next Monday could be the worst day the year for computer attacks.After analysing information on viruses and internet worms taken from more than 500,000 machines around the world, security experts atPC Toolshave pinpointed November 24 as the potential peak of malicious software activity for 2008.Data from 2007 showed that the high point of action from viruses, worms and other internet-based attacks came three days before America's Thanksgiving holiday, leading them to suggest that the same day could prove the bleakest 24 hours of this year.The company says the increase in virus activity could be the result of internet shopping in the run-up to Christmas, as millions of users begin going online to purchase gifts for their friends and family.With the chance for criminals to access financial details, online shoppers make an attractive target for the writers of malware.The number of people shopping online this Christmas is expected to grow again this year, with internet sales in the UK alone predicted to hit £13.16bn – an increase of 15% over 2007.More people are expected to use the web for their shopping as a way of finding lower prices to help them beat the credit crunch.But while security experts are expecting the traditional increase of malware over November and December, they have also warned of another source of potential attacks. Spammers and criminals have attempted to use the popularity of American president-elect Barack Obama as a way to trick users into downloading malware.A flood of emails purporting to link to a video of Obama's acceptance speech were actually connected to a trojan horse program which would compromise the target's PC. Meanwhile, a separate burst of spam messages contained a file called BarackObama.exe, which, when activated, places a rootkit on the victim's machine and opens it up to hackers around the world.
I'm blaming the sheer number of games out at the moment but I very nearly did something I haven't done for ages this weekend. And no, not celebrate a Southampton win. As if. No, I very nearly chose the "easy" difficulty level when playing Call of Duty: World at War. I wasn't reviewing it, I knew pretty much what to expect and I didn't have time to spend hours restarting sections. It was very tempting. In the end, of course, I chose "normal" as I do in every game. But it was close. And speaking to friends it seems I'm not alone, with many confessing to playing the likes of Dead Space on the easier setting.Maybe it's an age thing – all of those who told me they playing "easy" were in their 30s with kids/lack of time – but I think there is something to it. Are games getting too hard? I don't think so. But clearly the audience for games is much wider than it used to be, making it tricky for developers to define what sort of player would chose the "normal" difficulty setting.  Go on then – fess up. Do you ever play on "easy" or is it normal or harder only for you?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
It's a given that every time we write aboutdigital piracy, or laugh at sillypirate jokes, somebody will write in and admonish us. "Shame on you," they say. "Shame on you for laughing at pirates, when there is real piracy taking place in the world that ends up with people being hurt."Well, those among you who are already preparing to tell us the same, take your fingers off the keyboard: this storyreally isabout high-seas piracy.According to Reuters, the recent growth in piracy off the coast of troubledSomaliameans that lots of shipping companies are considering ditching the traditional route around the Cape of Good Hope."Despite all the publicity over piracy it will really hit home when consumers in the West find they haven't got their Nintendo gifts this Christmas," said Sam Dawson of the International Transport Workers' Federation (ITF)."If there isn't a let up and active intervention by navies in the region, the impact on trade will come within weeks or months because we've gone from one attack every couple of weeks to four in a single day," he said."These attacks are no longer 50 to 100 miles off Somalia they are 200 miles plus off the coast... this is not just guys in little fishing boats anymore. We know there are three probably ex-Soviet trawlers acting as mother ships," Dawson said.On a related note, there's also a story doing the rounds at the momentof how there's a shortage of shipping containersout there. I sat and watched a sequence of Chinese container ships coming in to the US yesterday, which brought some perspective to exactly how much is being shifted around the world at any given time.Between these stories, there's an intriguing picture being painted here - the sort of geopolitical consequence of conflict that we don't think of very often in our comfortable offices and living rooms around the world, combined with the stress of economic downturn. The kind of malfunction behind the scenes that should really be of interest to everyone.But want a real bring-it-all-home threat that makes flippant technoheads and smirk-faced gadget freaks suddenly sit up and take notice? No Nintendo at Christmas.
Web-based  personality iJustine, akaJustine Ezarik, has been making someTV commercialsforMozy, an online storage company, and they're much better than you might expect. However, maybe Mozy should forget about storage and go into the T-shirt business. As iJustine says:Everyone was asking me where I got the"Back the F:\ up" T-shirt-- That was their brilliant creation. Seriously, this is the best internet company T-shirt I've ever got!It looks like the best internet company T-shirt I have not got, but I'd buy one, given the chance, even though I've never even heard ofFear Factory. (And, no, I don't want a knock-off: it has to be the real thing.)Sadly, Mozy isn't selling T-shirts. It's much smarter than that. Athttp://backthefup.net/, it says:You want a "Back The F:\ Up" t shirt, and we want to give you one. But you're gonna have to work for it.So here's how it works. We're not selling them. Instead, we want you to tell us what you're going to do to get one. We're open to pretty much anything, as long as it's awesome, gives Mozy some props, and doesn't suck.Basically you have to suggest a promotional idea. Then, if Mozy agrees, you have to execute your idea. If all goes well, you can then "Wear your exclusive 'Back The F:\ Up' T-shirt with pride, knowing that you are FREAKING AWESOME."So all you have to do is come up with two brilliant ideas and send me your spare T-shirt ;-)Trivia note: It's T-shirt not t-shirt. It's a shirt that's shaped like a T, and it is not shaped like a t. Using lower case is wrong, and just as wrong as if you wrote about a t-junction or an a-line dress.Although The Guardian has a bit of a fetish that can lead to the inappropriate use of lower-case characters, we generally get this one right. Please, Mozy, copy.
In August, I watched an interesting BBC programme aboutVanessa MaeinThe Making of Meseries. The idea was to find out whether her talent for playing the violin was down to nature or nurture. One of the things that emerged was that getting to be as good as her requires about 10,000 hours hard work, and this is not just true of violinists. The Guardian has just publishedan extract from Malcolm Gladwell's latest book, Outliers: The Story Of Success, which makes the same point:"In study after study, of composers, basketball players, fiction writers, ice-skaters, concert pianists, chess players, master criminals," writes the neurologist Daniel Levitin, "this number comes up again and again. Ten thousand hours is equivalent to roughly three hours a day, or 20 hours a week, of practice over 10 years... No one has yet found a case in which true world-class expertise was accomplished in less time. It seems that it takes the brain this long to assimilate all that it needs to know to achieve true mastery."Gladwell applies the idea to Sun co-founder Bill Joy, Bill Gates and the Beatles, who honed their expertise playing strip clubs in Hamburg. Gladwell says:The Beatles ended up travelling to Hamburg five times between 1960 and the end of 1962. On the first trip, they played 106 nights, of five or more hours a night. Their second trip they played 92 times. Their third trip they played 48 times, for a total of 172 hours on stage. The last two Hamburg stints, in November and December 1962, involved another 90 hours of performing. All told, they performed for 270 nights in just over a year and a half. By the time they had their first burst of success in 1964, they had performed live an estimated 1,200 times, which is extraordinary. Most bands today don't perform 1,200 times in their entire careers. The Hamburg crucible is what set the Beatles apart.There's also an interview with GladwellThe man who can't stop thinking, in today's Observer. Gladwell will also be giving two lectures on Monday 24 November at the Lyceum Theatre, London WC2. See:malcolmgladwell-live.com. Not sure if you fancy that? Try Gladwell's wonderful 20-minute TED Talk,What we can learn from spaghetti sauce.
Ford Kuga&pound;18,805CO2 per Km: 169 GRAMSMiles per gallon: 44.1Good for: top dogsBad for: lap dogsThis is a car that has all the things we like about 4x4s (the sure handling, the high driving position, the 'sneer of cold command' as Shelley might have put it) and very few of the things we don't like about 4x4s (the road-hogging size, the oil-well thirst, the tail-pipe smog). So, well done Ford, the Kuga is, as they keep telling us in the adverts, 'different'. But there is no escaping the question of why Ford would roll out a 4x4 just as the polar caps are being reduced to tinkling ice cubes and demand for off-roaders has hit an all-time low.The answer is twofold. One: from drawingboard to forecourt is quite a journey and Ford would have started planning the Kuga five or more years ago when we were all in a very different place, environmentally speaking. Two:  there are still enough people prepared to ignore the road prejudice and continue buying hopelessly over-qualified vehicles. No matter what you think, you can't go on safari in Surbiton.Still, credit to the Kuga. Ford has made a decent attempt to redress some of the iniquities of 4x4 motoring with its first off-roader in two decades. It has the lowest CO2 emissions of any car in its class - a sweet-smelling 169g/km. (Though it's worth spelling out exactly what that figure means - for every kilometre you drive, the Kuga will release 169g of carbon into the atmosphere.) The car is also a manageable size. It is based on the same platform as Ford's Focus - the best-selling car in Europe for the past eight years. So you can banish unsightly parking-space bulge from your life. When fitted with the all-purpose 2-litre turbo diesel it delivers a frugal 44.1 miles to the gallon, but there is also the option of a 197bhp 2.5-litre petrol five-cylinder. This is faster, but it's also thirstier and dirtier, and in a stroke reduces the Ford Kuga to just another smelly 4x4. So don't be tempted!The area in which it most impresses, appropriately enough for these superficial times, is in the looks department. The Kuga comes with sculpted alloys, a sleek, curvaceous body that would put a smile on Frank Gehry's face, and enough chrome to satisfy a kleptomaniac jackdaw. The sides are heavily creased and the bonnet is 'blistered' - which doesn't mean the paint is falling off, but that there are two long ridges running front to back. These, along with the side air vents below the headlights and the pronounced bash plate below the grille, give the car an athletic, muscular presence. There are plenty of practical pluses, too. The split tailgate makes loading a doddle and should be mandatory; there's a simple start button which saves you rummaging around looking for your keys; and Ford's Easy Fuel system means it is impossible, no matter how hard you may try, to put the wrong fuel in the tank. And the fabric inlays on the windowsills offer true elbow comfort.So far, so different. The one thing Ford didn't attempt to be different about was the name. Six people asked me in the course of a week if the Kuga was the new Cougar - a rather dull, Mondeo-based saloon from the Nineties. The answer's no. And yes Cougar, however you spell it, is a good name for a good car, but surely this one deserves its own moniker. How about the Ford Ozymandias?martin.love@observer.co.uk
It has been quite a week for virtual worlds, the three-dimensional sector of the internet where people can live a parallel existence with their own avatar or alter ego. The world's most profitable virtual game, World of Warcraft, which has more than 11 million paying participants, released a long-awaited expansion that generated midnight queues as enthusiasts vied with each other to steal a march in the new version. The Chinese government, realising that virtual worlds are an unstoppable phenomenon, announced it was planning to impose a 20 per cent tax on profits earned within them rather than, as hitherto, banning such virtual transactions. And a British couple who got married after meeting in Second Life are divorcing after the wife caught her husband chatting up another woman in the virtual world.The name of his avatar in Second Life is 'Barmy', a word often used about people who spend time in these virtual worlds, such as myself. But our detractors have usually never experienced them and think they are a passing fad that will soon disappear (rather like they thought the internet would 15 years ago). The alternative view is that the current explosion of three-dimensional worlds will evolve into a virtual revolution on the scale of the Industrial Revolution, in which people will earn and spend and play in these worlds buying clothes, cars, football gear, cinema tickets or whatever. This is already happening in social networks such as Facebook, where you can buy 'virtual' flowers and other goods, or Second Life, whose internal economy turns over hundreds of thousands of dollars a day, or in Entropiauniverse.com, a complicated game, which is even bigger. Since the production of extra units of virtual goods costs nothing, the goal of a virtual economy chimes well with the need to reduce our carbon footprint and transport costs. Edward Castronova, an American economist who wrote Exodus to the Virtual World, even raises the prospect that wars might be fought in virtual worlds rather than in real life.Why do so many people do it? Why do we read books, or watch films? It is partly escapism, using our imaginations and partly about networking on a global scale. Email puts you in touch with people you know, Facebook or MySpace with friends of friends, but only after a time lapse. Virtual worlds connect you in real time to anyone around the world who shares your interests - as opposed to your geography - whether it is science, gossip, sex, art education or music. At a time when a blanket of economic and political gloom is enveloping the real world, it is an opportunity to escape to taste a parallel life in which you can shape the rules. Above all, it is fun, in three dimensions.Since buying my first patch of land in Second Life in May 2006, I have launched a book of poetry there (which included a discussion among avatars from around the world) and opened an art gallery, built for me by a neighbour, an artist who lives in Australia. I hang pictures there from real life (imported photographs) plus art and sculpture generated with Second Life. The basic building tools of the world - enabling users to make and mould cubes, spheres and other shapes - enable you to turn an idea into an artwork without having to spend three years at art college.Second Life isn't expanding at anything like the pace it did a year or two ago, when it nearly drowned in publicity, but it is still the place to be for experiment. This is why companies such as BP and IBM conduct real business meetings there or in similar spaces,  avoiding the need to jet in executives from around the world, and why dozens of universities have campuses there to experiment with distance learning and other techniques suited to virtual worlds. I have watched a ballet in Second Life and regularly go to a replica of Shakespeare's Globe (last week  Twelfth Night was on) where they plan to perform the complete works.I still use Second Life the most, but there is now an explosion of competing virtual worlds as they start to become a mass phenomenon and become much simpler to use. There are more than 30 virtual worlds for children between eight and 13 years old (and five for the under eights) including Disney's Clubpenguin.com, with more than 20 million registered users, and Neopets.com, with more than 45 million. The biggest of them, Habbo.com, has well over 100 million registered users, making it bigger than most countries, even though lots of them aren't regularly active. I met someone recently who said his children communicated with each other on bebo.com or Facebook, then came home to continue the same conversations with the same people on Club Penguin or Habbo. If nothing else, the initiation of children into virtual worlds as a normal part of their lives will provide an expanding membership base for the future.Not that it is needed, as the new worlds are much easier to use and are converging with the real world in a fascinating way. I recently purchased an apartment in Twinity.com (still at the beta or trial stage) in a virtual Berlin - London and other cities will follow later. The city has been constructed from architects' drawings and photographs so that you can walk around the streets if you want. The plan is to have virtual reproductions of shops selling their own real-life branded goods.Twinity is in a superior league to some recent worlds, such as Google's disappointing Lively. In my apartment I can easily download a picture frame of whatever size I want - sadly, you can't create your own content in Twinity - and then use it to stream television or radio or import pictures from my online album at Flickr.com. I can link the frame with one click to a web address enabling me to read The Observer (full screen if desired) from inside a virtual world. I downloaded a mirror for the wall which reflected my avatar and what's in the background, a quite spooky imitation of the real world. You can import photos of your face to graft on to your avatar so it looks lifelike and if you are walking in the street you can see what the temperature is in that part of Berlin in real life.Berlin is only one of a number of cities that are being reproduced virtually. Second Life has several, such as Dublin and parts of London including Mayfair and Knightsbridge, where you can even walk into a tube station and stand on the platform. IBM this month unveiled an impressive virtual version of the Forbidden City of Beijing complete with virtual guides (beyondspaceandtime.org) and Google Earth has just added an ancient Rome layer to its destinations. Some pundits think that in the long term Google will turn its Earth feature, which already embraces three-dimensional versions of actual streets, into the virtual world to end all virtual worlds, in which avatars will be able to meet anywhere in the world on the streets of Google Earth.Another new virtual world with huge potential is Footballsuperstars.com, which yesterday announced a &pound;1m shirt sponsorship deal with amateur side Sheffield FC, the world's oldest recognised football club. The game, which I tried out some months ago, enables you to play five-a-side on a field, or in a stadium as part of a team against 10 other footballing avatars from around the world (the goalies are automated). You can retire afterwards to restaurants, pubs or apartments to discuss it. The basic level is free but there is plenty of opportunity to spend money on a new strip, or training during the week to get extra points.There is a huge risk with a game that has to be played simultaneously by 20 human beings in different places because the network time lags that mar some other games (including Second Life) could ruin the experience of instantaneous footballing. But if they get it right then a global audience awaits that already knows the rules.Where is all this leading? As these worlds become bigger, better, cheaper and more user-friendly, it looks increasingly likely that the prediction of the Gartner research group that by 2011 80 per cent of active internet users will have avatars may prove right or even a conservative estimate.If there are any doubts about the seriousness of the internet moving into three dimensions, then look to China, which is planning a series of different virtual worlds able to host not tens but hundreds of millions of avatars. The idea is to attract people (as avatars) from around the world to come and buy Chinese goods more cheaply from source. In this way they plan to capture the value added to a shirt that leaves a Chinese factory for a dollar but is sold in London for $20. Since the West is virtually - sorry, actually - living off this 'value-added' revenue at the moment, our manufacturing base already having emigrated to China, the economic implications are ominous.There is one saving grace. It is not widely appreciated that Europe, having missed out on the internet boom that became almost a US monopoly in terms of new companies generated, is playing a leading role in virtual worlds. The top three most popular games and worlds are European. Habbo Hotel is Finnish, World of Warcraft is now owned by the French group Vivendi and the third, Runescape.com, is based in Cambridge's science park and has grown, with hardly any publicity, from nowhere to more than six million active users. Entropia Universe, another very successful company that won the contract to build the first part of the Chinese virtual world, is Swedish. Among the promising newcomers, Twinity is German and Footballsuperstars British. Maybe it will soon be patriotic, as well as self-interested, to join a virtual world.Victor Keegan's top online worldsSecond LifeStill the place to be, as unlike practically every other virtual world it is nearly all user-generated content: a cauldron of creativity with growing uses for education and business. It has several issues on the downside: it's laggy, tricky to learn, crashes too often and is hardly expanding its active users at all.secondlife.comTwinityNot yet formally launched so sparsely populated, but takes virtuality to a new level with realistic reproductions of cities and user-friendly links to other media. Downside: no community spirit or user-generated content.twinity.comEntropia UniverseThe place for aficionados. Hi-tech escapism, flourishing $400m economy enabling fortunes to be made which can be extracted from real-life ATMs. Downside: notoriously difficult and time-consuming to learn the rules.entropiauniverse.comRunescapeWildly successful virtual world with hardly any publicity, proving you don't have to be cutting edge to succeed.runescape.comFootball SuperstarsGreat idea enabling people around the world to play football in teams, each with their own avatar ... and then retire to a virtual pub. Downside: not yet formally launched, so not proved to be bug-free. The game's developers promise players will be matched according to skill, and will even get the chance to graduate into management.footballsuperstars.com
I just noticed a story inGamesIndustry.bizthat starts: "Microsoft has announced that it expects sales of the Xbox 360 worldwide to pass that of the original Xbox -- around 25 million units -- by the end of November."The 360, for all its faults, has clearly been a great success, and is selling a phenomenal amount of software. By contrast, I remember the original Xbox as a bit of a flop. It's a surprise to find we're now at the point where they've both sold about the same.Thesorpassois coming partly because recent price cuts have given Xbox 360 sales a boost. Mindy Mount, from Microsoft's Entertainment and Devices division, says: "In the US in September our console sales rose 42% month over month, and in Europe they rose 62%. In Japan we've had over a 500% increase in sales."Of course, this doesn't change the fact that Nintendo is thrashing both Microsoft and Sony. NPD has just released its numbers forUS console sales in October 2008, and they are:Nintendo Wii - 803,000Nintendo DS - 491,000Xbox 360 - 371,000Sony PSP - 193,000Sony PlayStation 3 - 190,000Sony PlayStation 2 - 136,000The Xbox 360 almost outsold the PlayStation 3 by 2:1, but the Wii is outselling the 360 by more than 2:1. Indeed, inthe spin each company puts on the numbers, Nintendo points out that it accounted for more than 59% of the month's hardware sales. It's not just that the Wii is the top seller: the DS is in second place.Sony is in a trickier position because all three of its consoles performed poorly in October. It couldn't put this result against either Nintendo or Microsoft, so it compared the new numbers with what it did last year. As GamesIndustry.biz puts it: "PS3 hardware was up 90% year-on-year, while PS3 software jumped almost 200% in the same time frame."The Xbox 360 is benefiting from some blockbuster games releases, such as Fable II and Far Cry 3, but the PS3's price may be holding it back. AGamasutra story quotes Wedbush Morgan's Michael Pachtersaying that with Xbox 360 hardware sales beating his expectations and PS3 sales lighter than he'd thought, "we believe there were some substitution of Xbox 360 for PS3 purchases."Going into a big Christmas with recession on everybody's mind, having the most expensive hardware is probably not where you'd want to be….
What kind of people want to drive MG convertible sports cars? This is a rhetorical question, I should make clear, because I happen to have the answer here before me in a little booklet conveniently produced by the car's makers. It turns out the MG is for "people whose glass is always half full".You hear a lot about such people, possibly too much, but what I wonder about them is what happens when they're handed a glass filled to the brim? Pedantic? OK, what about when the petrol gauge reads almost empty: do they think they've still got half a tank? You see, such half-wit attitudes do have motoring implications.However, it appears allowing your decision-making to be influenced by mundane reality is not the mark of the ideal MG customer. For I learn from my MG booklet that the car is for those whose inclination is to "reach for the sun" (presumably unaware of its surface temperature), "who don't stick a toe in the water; they jump right in," and "who leap straight out of bed... First thing they put on is a smile".I feel confident, having absorbed this information, that I am not in the market for an MG. My bed-leaping days are long past, and my smiling days may as well be. The thought of doing both together is enough to make me want to lie down.And yet, like a toddler running in the park, an MG parping along the street can't help but bring a smile to faces crushed by gravity and that ceaseless existential crisis we politely refer to as life.It looked for a while that the MG sports car had gone the way of my leaping out of bed when MG Rover went into administration in 2005. Even before that the car had enjoyed only intermittent production, most notably with the release in 1995 of the MG F, which coincided very profitably with the high-water mark of Cool Britannia and groovy patriotic consumerism.Thanks to the Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation, which now owns the badge, the new MG TF LE500 is once again assembled at the car's old home plant of Longbridge - albeit with parts shipped from China.Best of British, and what have you, but I do wish they'd assembled the pedals in slightly closer relation to the human foot, so that they might interact with the ball rather than the arch. Then again, the MG has never really been about a comfortable drive.Start the engine and it sounds as if you've entered Le Mans. It's too noisy to amble along but not really powerful enough to live up to the sound, so you fumble around town trying to work out whether to speed up or slow down, while attempting to make the arch of your foot respond accordingly. If nothing else, it's a challenge to the maintenance of cool.So what? It looks a treat, a British style classic, that could do with a touch more Chinese content. On a sunny day with the top down, you can't go wrong. My eight-year-old daughter loved it when I took her out for a Sunday drive to a cemetery. Well, as the booklet says, it's "for absolutely everyone with a lust for life".
Politicians are ready to introduce league tables naming and shaming the speed with which internet service providers take down offensive material.The culture minister, Barbara Follett, and her Tory shadow, Ed Vaizey, have backed the idea that web providers must be embarrassed into dealing with violent, sexually explicit web content.Follett said she wants to see the pre-screening of material on sites such as YouTube, as occurs at present on MySpace. She admitted there was growing chaos out there on the internet, and order needed to be brought.She has also admitted barriers aimed at preventing children from accessing over-age material on the internet are not just porous but leak like a sieve. "People can get straight through it, or straight by it."Follett warned: "We must teach children of the dangers of the internet. It is sad to make children more scared than interested, but fortunately the internet is so interesting that children tend to overcome their fear."Discussing the internet and video games at a Westminster debate and facing suggestions that the industry is lax about controlling content, Follett said: "We agree information about take-down times and levels of search need to be much clearer." Asked if she supported league tables of take-down times by internet service providers, she said "name and shame can sometimes can work very well indeed."Follett said: "Many people have said that the internet is like the wild west in the gold rush and that sooner or later it will be regulated. What we need is for it to be regulated sooner rather than later."We need the service providers to come forward and show that they are the sort of responsible organisations whose services we can trust to our children."She added: "We must ensure that search engines have a clear link to child safety information and safe search settings on the front page of their website."She also said she saw "some value in some form of age identity card for the internet. It is useful when it comes to alcohol and cigarettes and it is certainly useful when it comes to buying video games and  other material on the internet."She added parents needed "control software to communicate automatically with websites' age verification systems to prevent children from signing up to sites with false dates of birth."In theory social networking sites are not supposed to be accessed by anyone under 13, but this guideline is totally ignored. She said she was interested in some form of "age identification card", or requiring banks to specify on credit card statements that the card had been used to access internet sites or games, so parents could be warned of their child's activities.She also said she backed pre-screening of user-generated internet content saying she was glad this was being carried out by MySpace. "It is that kind of responsible action that we are looking for, as it means people can trust a company." Ministers and politicians have been locked in battle with Google, the owners of YouTube, who claim that there is too much material going onto its site for it to be pre-screened.The proposal for a "take-down" league table is backed by Vaizey. He said: "The government is in a position to put out the information, and it is up to the internet service providers to react to it. If they are happy to be 55th in a league table of take-down times so be it."Overall, Follett's remarks suggest she will be more interventionist than some other ministers, although she has stressed she favours the internet and largely thinks self-regulation is best option.She also insisted there was not yet compellingly persuasive evidence of a link between watching violent video games and subsequent acts of violence.Ministers have just set up a new child internet safety council following the review conducted for the Department of Children, Schools and Families by Dr Tanya Byron, the psychologist.
Relaunched to coincide with their new album, Day &amp; Age, the Killers' UK website is flash and snazzy but utterly pointless. If websites had been around in the 1980s, when Duran Duran and co were spunking millions on videos, this is what they'd all be like. In fact, it's not really a website at all, but a floating widget containing their latest video and a couple of news morsels. Marginally more entertaining is the background artwork. Click on each of the hundreds of blobs and cheery pictures of their British fans and the titles of their favourite Killers songs are revealed. To find out anything useful, though, you have to click on a link to the band's US site, which surely completely defeats the point of having a UK one.
The US electionis even greater in PhotoshopFinally there'sa blog for those who get aroused by stairsHow to turnyour new photos into old photosThe 10most overlooked events in history. Princess Di's death not includedJapanese zoosprepare for everythingSteven Seagalruns like a likkle girl who needs a weeRihanna mayask for hard-boiled eggs at any timeNever totrust Swansea Council with translation workHow to tellmale from female bloggersLondon's wild parakeetpopulation is Jimi Hendrix's fault
I likeCelebrating the lovely, from Mighty Boosh vinyl figures and purses made out of cassette tapes, to postcards of caravans.Craft CraftyIn praise of Little Big Planet, the race to knit the world's biggest tea cosy and converting a Ken doll into David Bowie.Paper ForestPaper fun, including Build-O-Bama, Post-It note games and pop-up books.FolksyKnitted boiled eggs, recycled clothes and the importance of working above a cafe.CraftismHats for cats, how knitting can change lives and inspirational knitting.Start SewingHow to make a pirate costume and other vital information for the novice.
It was a story that unfolded in two very different venues. Half of it took place in a Cornish seaside resort - an old-fashioned media footrace for a decent story.But the other half was played out in cyberspace as virtual reporters picked their way through imagined streets and clubs and homes to try to gather how an indiscretion there had led to a real life marriage break-up.The story of how Newquay couple Amy Taylor and David Pollard broke up after she caught his alter ego cheating on her in the virtual world Second Life has already made headlines.The couple are divorcing and Pollard is engaged to his online partner's real-life counterpart, a woman from Arkansas, America, called Linda Brinkle, even though they have not met.But the story behind the story is as bizarre, and will no doubt make reporters sit up and try to work out how they can hunt for equally odd tales unfolding in computer-generated worlds.To recap, Taylor and Pollard got together after meeting in an internet chatroom. They began to play Second Life, the interactive computer game in which enthusiasts adopt alter egos - or avatars - and lead fantastical lives.In Second Life, Taylor, who is unemployed, became club DJ Laura Skye. Pollard, also unemployed, was nightclub owner Dave Barmy who lives in a church and travels in a helicopter gunship.Barmy cheated on Skye, with one of the many sex workers in Second Life. Back in real life, Taylor was upset but gave him a second chance. But when she found Barmy with another cyberwoman, Modesty McDonnell, it was too much. She left him and the couple - in real life - are to be divorced.The chase for the real couple began after the story broke on a satellite news channel. Reporters were despatched to Newquay to interview Taylor and Pollard. The pair, who were living in separate digs in the town, were reluctant to speak to journalists.Fortunately for the pack, their avatars were less coy. While flesh and blood reporters and photographers banged on the door of the pair's real homes, virtual ones were trying to doorstep Laura Skye and Dave Barmy in Second Life.The two that found them were Jashley Gothley, snug-fitting T-shirts and black trousers, and Meggy Paulse, red mini-skirt and a black slip top.Both were avatars of journalists for the press agency South West News. So while Taylor was refusing to answer her real door to real reporters, her avatar, Skye, was being won over by Paulse.Jo Pickering, one of the South West News staff who "controlled" Paulse, said: "In real life [Taylor] had rejected everything - knocks on the door, letters, phone calls. But our characters started chatting and it was different. She began to trust us. Amy's character was much more confident in the game than she was in real life."Meanwhile, Gothley was tailing it after Barmy. Real reporter Paul Adcock admitted that his character got the run around from Barmy because he was a novice in the ways of Second Life. But Barmy eventually invited Gothley to meet him in the church he lives in.Adcock said: "It was difficult sometimes because there was a blurring between reality and Second Life." Barmy also turned out to be more confident than Pollard. "We spoke later on the phone and he was much more awkward than in the game," said Adcock.Barmy was even persuaded to bring his new girlfriend, McDonnell, to meet Gothley. Barmy and McDonnell - now very much in love - posed together for photographs, which were grabbed from the computer by South West News's deputy picture editor, Jon Mills.Pickering said she understood why Taylor had felt so rejected in real life. "She had created this perfect version of herself, and even that wasn't good enough for him," she said.After much bargaining the South West News, and its avatars, hatched a buy up in real life with Taylor and Pollard. But the pair also agreed to tell their stories in detail to a tabloid newspaper yesterday for real money.Taylor says she is better off without Pollard, and he is hoping to use the money from the tabloid deal to fly out to see his American fiancee. And South West News is looking at opening an online bureau in Second Life.
An American woman has revealed how she was swindled out of $400,000 (&pound;269,000) by Nigerian internet fraudsters, in what is believed to be one of the biggest cases of its kind ever recorded.Janella Spears, a registered nurse from Sweet Home, Oregon, said she started sending money to the scammers in 2005 after she received an email promising her several million dollars from a long-lost relative. In what is commonly known as a 419 scam - named after a section of the Nigerian criminal code - the fraudsters randomly contacted Spears over the internet, claiming they would offer her a substantial cut of $20.5m fortune in return for the cash injection which would help move it out of the country."I kept thinking it's only a couple hundred dollars - I can get it back," she told local news. Over a period of two years, the fraudsters strung her along and encouraged her to send more payments of up to $14,000 at a time. In the end she became obsessed and sent the fraudsters more than $400,000, which she raised by remortgaging her home and spending her husband's retirement savings.Despite advice from bank officials, police and even the FBI that the scheme was a ruse, Spears said she continued to send cash in the hope of a large pay-off. Even fake emails claiming to be from the President of Nigeria and US president George Bush could not dissuade her."I said how come you're using this non-government address? 'Oh, because our computer has a worm'," she said. The 419 fraud is one of the most common internet deceptions, and like most similar schemes is reliant on sending millions of spam messages in the hope that they land in the inbox of a gullible victim.Although finding victims requires luck rather than judgement, the incredibly low cost of sending email means that such fraud can be highly profitable. A study by researchers at University of California showed that it took an average of 12.5m spam emails for each response - but that large operations sending billions of messages could make as much as &pound;2m a year.Although Spears is an exception she is far from being alone. Last year British police helped crack a similar fraud ring, which was holding fake cheques worth more than &pound;1bn, which had links to groups in the Netherlands and Nigeria.Although it is difficult to calculate the value of such swindles because many victims are too embarrassed to report the crime, the government has estimated that such frauds could cost &pound;3.5bn a year in Britain alone.Spears claimed she was sharing her story now in order to prevent others from falling victim to similar scams. "You're sitting there going 'how can I fall for something like that'," she said.
Mario Cacciottolo is the man behind this compelling photography project. The idea is simple: people are photographed at random or by appointment, holding up sheets of paper with the words of something that was once told to them that has stuck in their minds ever since - whether it was a text message from a mate or words of wisdom from a grandparent. The result is a twisted, modern British version of Bob Dylan's Subterranean Homesick Blues video and throws up lots of intriguing images, stories and sayings, from "Don't sit on a thistle and howl" to "It's not what you know. It's who you blow." The latter, by the way, was from the editor of a flooring magazine.
With a growing number of competitor games invading its home turf, the latest expansion ofWorld of Warcraftstill proves that it's top dog in the realm of massively multiplayer online gaming.Gamers have months of new content to discover as they traverse the latest continent to appear in Azeroth: Northrend. Stepping into the virtual world, your sights are assaulted with fantastical new zones ranging from lush greenery and floating cities through to barren ice lands and Titan-esque ancient structures.These become your new playgrounds as you choose between questing, player v player (PvP) combat, dungeon adventuring and eventually, for the most committed, taking on high-level bosses in raids.It's a game of dedication and variety. Upping the ante with this expansion, veteran gamers who'd reached the last level cap of 70 have seen their experience bar return. The new goal is 80, with corresponding level increases in skills and professions.With the opportunity to play solo, or in groups of five, 10 and even 25, challenges are endless, as are the item rewards that allow you to customise and improve your character's stats.New features abound in Lich King, with Blizzard adding gameplay mechanics to excite its huge population. Additions include pilotable siege vehicles for use in PvP, and the fan pleaser that is in-flight combat.Gamers are all rushing to create their own Death Knight, the game's first hero class character and one of the biggest of the new additions. Multipurpose, it can function as both a damage deliverer and party punch-bag, making the game much more "group friendly".Previously one of the most frustrating elements to group questing was the need for a specific character class to achieve a workable group dynamic. This often led to long waits for the right people to come online. This barrier has now been removed.The game's original content has also been given a fresh lease on life. An addictive achievement system offers challenges based in the "classic" continents as well as those from the expansions. New players haven't been overlooked either, with lower character levelling made much speedier, allowing players to access the new content at a quicker pace.Initially newcomers can be overwhelmed. The game is at times highly complex and has a steep learning curve. But for those up to the challenge, this game offers huge satisfaction and endless playability for the casual through to hardcore player.Less than 48 hours after its release, Northrend is buzzing with life, and more than ever the game's social aspect is coming to the forefront. Once again, WoW successfully defines what an MMO should be about.
While EA DICE's wonderful Mirror's Edge has been garnering mostly positive reviews, it looks like the title won't be up there in the Metacritic rankings challenging the likes of Gears of War 2 or even Call of Duty: World at War. Many reviewers have criticised the combat, the repetition,  a smattering of trial-and-error moments. There has been a general compulsion to counter the sequences of innovative genius with niggling doubts about core mechanics.This is frustrating and I think it highlights one of the key issues of contemporary gaming – what exactlyisa videogame and what are the fundamental  elements every game must provide? Because, if it were a movie, Mirror's Edge would be critically lauded by the specialist film press – it would be considered a forward-thinking masterpiece. Sure, it's dangerous to compare two such different media, but there are key similarities – one is the way in which critics should be able to deconstruct the experience on offer and draw from it undeniable values that outweigh concerns about basic construction.For example, no-one complains that, say, Pan's Labyrinth or Eraser Head lack the formal, easily recognisable narrative structure of a conventional movie. Their aspirations exempt them from that requirement. So should we really be marking Mirror's Edge down for control issues – a game that aspires to re-interpret the very interface between player, screen and character? Yes, I know, it's a clumsy comparison, but the underlying point is – should reviewers just accept that sometimes incredibly new experiences will lack some of the formal substance we expect from traditional games? That's what innovation is, it's leaping out into the unknown.I foundthe IGN reviewparticularly depressing. Not only does the writer suggest that the combat system could have done with an extra button (wha? Why?! Why add extra layers of complexity? Since when was that an artful response to anything?), but he ends with:The ideas are there for a very cool experience, and I truly hope that a sequel is spawned, but this first attempt falls just a bit short.Can you imagine, for a second, critics emerging from the press screening of Apocalypse Now, or The Magnificent Ambersons, or Bladerunner and proclaiming, 'yeah, it had some good ideas, but it wasn't perfect - I'll look forward to the sequel'. I suppose there's an argument that, as films are only ninety minutes long, we'll accept a more flawed experience, but are notions of quality really so tightly governed by longevity?  I hope not.The 'better sequel' mentality is damaging both to the games industry and to the quality of games journalism. It is a deferral of critical responsibility, a patronising pat on the head for the developer who dared to dream and fell short in some mythically vital way. I don't want to be frustrated by dodgy controls either, but then I'm willing to blunder through if I'm going to get an experience I never had before. I felt the same about Killer 7 and Shenmue and the mobile game, Nom – flawed every one of them, but I don't begrudge the creators a single second of the time I spent toiling with imperfections.What are we really saying about innovation when we require a sequel to prove the concept was valid in the first place? What are we saying about the artistry of games? And ultimately, what does it mean for games criticism, if we can't appreciate visionary moments, because of these weird little checklists of gameplay qualities, constructed and adhered to with near-autistic fervour?Games are games, true enough. They're not artistic statements in the same way as movies are, but they are creative works and creativity needs to be nurtured. Judging this medium on set criteria like graphics, sound, gameplay, lasta-fecking-bility – oh God, sometimes all that crap needs to be torn up. Thomas Edison once said,  "Hell, there are no rules here - we're trying to accomplish something". It is a sentiment that should be taken to heart, both by developers and those who make a living reporting on their trade.
Sun Microsystems, California, says it isslashing its staff by 5,000-6,000"to align its cost model with the global economic climate and accelerate the introduction of compelling open source innovations". This represents around 15% to 18% of employees. The aim is to reduce costs by $700-$800 million a year, but will involve $500-$600 million in restructuring costs.Sun has been struggling since the dot.com bust, and lost $1.68 billion in its last quarter on revenues that fell by 7%.Sun's basic problem is that companies will no longer pay high prices for servers based on Sun's Sparc processors and Solaris version of Unix. Instead, they are buying cheap Intel-based servers running either Linux or Microsoft Windows Server.Its problems have been exacerbated because some of its main targets have been web-based companies and financial services companies. Both of these were boom markets, and both have slumped.Sun responded, belatedly, by selling Intel and AMD x86-compatible servers as well, but these have dramatically lower profit margins. It also made Solaris and other Sun software open source, and free.Sun now says it will reorganise its software operations into three groups: Application Platform Software, Systems Platforms, and Cloud Computing &amp; Developer Platforms.Application Platform Software includes Java and MySQL, an open source database.Sun bought the company.Cloud Computing &amp; Developer Platforms includes Sun's Star Office, which is based on commercialising the OpenOffice suite. (Sun bought the failedStarDivisioncompany and made its software open source.) It's not clear how much more profitable it is to give software away.Rich Green, Sun's executive vice president of software, is leaving the company.Yesterday, Sun's share price hit $4 -- down from $254 in August 2000 -- giving the company a market value of $3 billion. In September, it had $3 billion in cash. "The market's perception of Sun is so poor the company's worth less than its horde of cash and short-term investments, a grim sign about Wall Street's optimism about the company's prospects,"says AP.Pony-tailed Sun bossJonathan Schwartz-- aka My Little Pony -- has not yet commented on his blog. However, onNovember 10, he commented:I can't remember a single customer upset at the idea of paying $20,000 for computing infrastructure that used to cost them $100,000. The price compression came from open source software, and a move toward general purpose servers, and resulted in companies formerly making 65% gross profit on products (Sun among them) facing a new reality.But what doesn't kill you makes you stronger.Yes. Unless it kills you.
I'm a bit worried aboutDell. Dell Computers, that is, not its eponymous head Michael. I wonder if his company is running, a bit Wile E. Coyote-style, off the edge of a cliff.Not that I'm saying it's going to go bust in a hurry. But it is showing signs of thrashing around to try to break out of its self-imposed straitjacket of being the company where you get your stuff cheaper than elsewhere. The problem is, if people aren't buying things, they'll not buy them. And Dell isn't getting out of it.Item 1, which will seem trivial: Dell hasgiven up on its plans to make another music player. Michael Gartenberg, the former Jupiter analyst who is now at Mobile Devices Today, comments there that there's simply no point trying to fight Apple in this market; look at how little traction Microsoft, with all its money, has made with the Zune (still, you'll note, not available in Europe two years after its US launch). By my count that makes it three times Dell has attempted to get into the music player market — once with its own, once by selling the iPod through its store, and now with this.Item 2, itscall for its staff to take unpaid leave. That's the sort of thing that car manufacturers weighed down by unrealistic costs (such as too many unbought SUVs out in the factory yard) do. I can't recall iteverhappening with a computer maker in the 25 years I've been covering this industry.Item 3: it islooking for even more cuts, quite apart from the "take time off at your expense" thing.Item 4: itschief technology officer is stepping down. Even if it's to spend more time with his family, and has been in the works for some time, one would think he might have thought it would be, well, interesting to steer the company through these interesting times we all face. Or does he think someone else is going to better boost the value of the stock so he can cash in the options he surely has?Item 5: to try to make people spend more, Dell is introducing a way tocustomise the look of your laptop. It will cost about $50 to get artistic swirls and whooshes on the cover of your machine (though the chassis and keyboard underneath looks the same).From start to finish, that list of items — pulled from the past week or so — suggest to me a company that is unable to get beyond its original proposition: make computers more cheaply than rivals. Dell hasn't branched effectively into services as its rival HP has (by buying EDS). It hasn't grabbed the printer segment, as it thought it would (HP still rules there). Its servers don't dominate.This is a businesss model that is going nowhere, because there comes a point when you simply can't cut any more fat off; you're starting to hack into flesh, and then bone. Being unable to innovate because you've never had a culture of innovation means you're stuck. (Dell was for years proud of its astonishingly low spending on research and development. Well, for years lots of banks saved money by not really checking the financial wherewithal of people taking out sub-prime mortgages. Bad decisions will bite you in the end.)Nothing illustrates the hubris better than Michael Dell's words of October 1997, when he was asked what Apple — to which Steve Jobs had only recently returned — should do; hesuggested closing it down and giving the money back to the shareholders.InJanuary 2006Apple's market capitalisation — in effect, the stock market's guess at the total amount of profit the company will make over its lifetime (because each share's cost will be paid for, in theory, by its dividend over the company's life) — passed Dell's.Today, Apple's capitalisation is $61.2bn (£41.5), has zero debt and $24.5bn in the bank — more than Microsoft, in fact. Dell, meanwhile, is worth $20.13bn (meaning that Apple could buy it outrightand have money left over); it has debts of $1.97bn, and cash of $9bn. It has aprofit margin of only 4.4%— but that's falling, to about 3.85%, in its latest quarter. Falling margins are bad news.And that's before you get into the fact that last year Dellrevealed that there had been a high-level conspiracy by some managers(never named) over the course of three years that had the effect of defrauding investors by marking sales as closed in order to meet quarterly targets — which suggests a company grown so big that internal controls, and culture, have run ahead of themselves.This is a picture of the decline of a business and a business model. Making stuff cheap was a great way to go when times were good, but ironically in a recession people will often either cut spending altogether — which Microsoft is acknowledging byoffering businesses 0% financing[WSJ: subscription required] — or moveupwards, spending money in a one-off purchase on higher-quality equipment that they are sure will last and do the job. "Qualty", by the way, does not a swirly pattern for their laptop's cover costing $50. It means machines that you're sure will do the job.After last week, whenI sounded gloomy on the future of Yahoo, this will probably sound like I'm turning into the Cassandra of the tech industry, predicting calamity everywhere. Well, up to a point. Really what I'm saying is that Dell badly needs a new business model — but that nothing I've seen from it since January 2007, whenMichael Dell took over again as chief executivehave demonstrated it.What does Dell need? To be able to move up the value chain. But Apple is eating its (and everyone else's) lunch there. The problem is that Dell has always cut on research while Apple has invested in it. Truly, which would you rather have? A mobile internet device (which is what the iPhone and iPod Touch really are) that runs a proper version of Unix, or a swirly pattern on the cover of your laptop? Which has the greater potential future market?Michael Dell has always been proud of his ability to cut costs in his company. But what you're seeing now is the long-term effect of doing so. If there's one thing that the financial problems engulfing the western world show us, it's that cutting corners — and costs — in the short term will come back to hurt you in the future. Dell is reaping the whirlwind of its failure to invest in innovation in the past. Like Yahoo, it won't die immediately. But the stock market has already figured out where it is going. The latest price/earnings ratio (how long in years it takes for a stock to pay back, in dividends, its present cost) is 7.68. In other words, Dell could breathe its last in eight years' time, and the market would be satisfied it had got its money's worth.Perhaps in October 2016, it will be Steve Jobs's turn to pronounce on Dell's fate. I'll make a note in my diary.
The inspiring but disastrousOne Laptop Per Childproject's little green laptop will go on sale in Europe on Monday. The XO-1 was due to be sold to US users viaAmazon.comfrom November 17, and according to a BBC report, it will also be sold via Amazon's European sites as well.The BBC says:When it goes on sale the XO laptop is expected to cost £268 (€313) and should be available in 27 EU nations as well as Switzerland, Russia and Turkey.This is clearly a bit on the high side for a "$100 laptop", but you are paying for two machines. Under the Give One, Get One or G1G1 scheme, you get one and a child in the developing world gets the other.The OLPC has been a flop, selling about 600,000 machines so far. It was supposed to sell 100 million, but large government orders failed to materialise, and Venezuela ordered a million of the rival IntelClassmate PCdesign instead. The OLPC has also been outsold by more capable laptops such as the Asus Eee PC, which UK schools can now buy for as little as£132 (ex VAT) from RM.The XO-1 has a very slow 433MHz AMD Geode LX-700 processor, 256MB of memory, and an SD card slot.In an attempt to expand its market, OLPC has released a new version running Microsoft Windows XP. However, this has upset some of the project's supporters, who saw the XO-1 as a way of popularising Linux.Amazon will be selling the Linux version, because the cut-price Microsoft deal is only for sales of XP in developing nations.Manufacturers will not tell you what they are paying for components, but OLPC is thought to be paying $3 for Windows XP. Most netbook manufacturers on the ULCPC (Ultra Low Cost) scheme are probably paying around $20-$25. It could be as little as $16, depending on sales volume and specification, or $10 for non-commercial use.
The BlackBerry has been making its presence felt in the consumer market since the arrival of the Pearl a few years back, but today sees the UK launch of what is likely to be its most popular consumer device to date — the Storm.It is the first touchscreen BlackBerry and will be exclusive to Vodafone, which has been working with creator RIM for over a year on the handset.Already the mobile phone company — which will be offering the Storm in 10 countries worldwide — has received pre-orders from well over 100,000 British customers who want one when it goes on sale.The phone is RIM's response too the growing popularity of touchscreen devices, which was sparked by the arrival of the iPhone a year and a half ago. Vodafone lost out on the iPhone to bitter rival O2 in the UK.More recently, Nokia has jumped on the touchscreen bandwagon — which has to date been dominated by Asian manufacturers such as LG and Samsung — while T-Mobile made a major splash recently with the G1, the first handset to include Google's Android operating system.The G1 is, of course, made by HTC which recently launched its own-brand full touchscreen device — called the HTC Touch HD.The Storm, meanwhile, is free to anyone willing to sign up to a two year contract at £35 a month, making it cheaper than the G1 and iPhone.Nokia has yet to sign up an operator for its touchscreen phone in the UK.
What's your favourite piece of technology?It has to beAlfie, an audio/video system from Roth which I recently bought. They're a small company specialising in amplification using vacuum tubes, and everything they produce sounds and looks just gorgeous. The woman in the shop said that it was "lickable". Actually, she might well have said "nickable", but she was right either way.How has it improved your life?Just looking at it and yes, stroking it occasionally makes me happy. It's replaced my Bose "wave" system, which takes some doing.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Ten minutes ago, tuning into Five Live to see how my football team was doing. Even when they're losing, it sounds good.What additional features would you add if you could?Well as it's got radio, CD an iPod dock and DVD player, I'm not sure that it needs anything else. A built-in sandwich toaster?Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Who knows what new formats will be around by then. Alfie uses vacuum tubes to amplify music in a non-compressed format, so I think it will be around for a while, and anyway, it will always look fabulous.What one tip would you give to non-Alfie users?When handling it, always use the white gloves that come packaged with it (I'm not kidding!) It will stay clean and shiny and you can practice your mime skills.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?A bit of both. Nerdish in that I love gadgets but I usually know nothing about how they work and get scared by them sometimes.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my car. It's shiny with nice toys in. I especially like pressing the voice-command button and telling it to change the CD, even though I could do it by simply pressing a different button. It's probably got a nice engine too, but I don't really care about that.Mac or PC?Mac, Mac, Mac. Too scared of viruses to use anything else.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?Boulder To Birmingham, by Emmylou Harris. I think I'd like it played at my funeral, unless I'm killed by a falling boulder while in Birmingham, in which case it might not be appropriate.Will robots rule the world?I think they already do. They've just been programmed incorrectly.What piece of technology would you most like to own?An invisibility cloak. Or an Aston-Martin.Mark Billingham's new novel,In The Dark, is out now
You know one thing I'm fed up with? "Reboot". The word.OK, you might have missed it, but "reboot" is now being used to mean that it takes a movie or TV series andre-energisesit (rather than simply remaking it). Still not sure what I mean? Well,Batman BeginsandThe Dark Knight, for example. OrSuperman Returns. OrCasino Royale. Or the upcoming JJ Abrams version ofStar Trek. It gets bandied about all over the place — more overexposed than Paris Hilton.The reason it irritates me so much is that "remake" would really do just fine, but these producers, executives and showbiz reporters are really just stealing a little bit of geek cred by co-opting a techie word in order to inject a bit of hi-tech sexiness into their vapid, Hollywood lives. Damn it, if you're going to honour the integrity of the reboot then you at least need a blue screen of death first.Anyway. I'm going off the point.And yes, there was a point — and a wildly hypocritical one at that. Let's reclaim reboot for the geeks by answering the following Friday Afternoon Question.Which movie would you like to see a reboot of ... and who would be in it?Funniest answers get their bellies tickled.
An American woman has revealed how she was swindled out of $400,000 ($270,000) by Nigerian internet fraudsters, in what is believed to be one of the biggest cases of its kind ever recorded.Janella Spears, a registered nurse from Sweet Home, Oregon, said she started sending money to the scammers in 2005 after she received an email promising her several million dollars from a long-lost relative.In what is commonly known as a 419 scam — named after a section of the Nigerian criminal code — the fraudsters randomly contacted Spears over the internet, claiming they would offer her a substantial cut of a $20.5m fortune in return for the cash injection which would help move it out of the country."I kept thinking it's only a couple hundred dollars — I can get it back," she told local news.Over a period of two years, the fraudsters strung her along and encouraged her to send more payments of up to $14,000 at a time. In the end she became obsessed and sent the fraudsters more than $400,000, which she raised by remortgaging her home and spending her husband's retirement savings.Despite advice from bank officials, police and even the FBI that the scheme was a ruse, Spears said she continued to send cash in the hope of a large pay-off. Even fake emails claiming to be from the president of Nigeria and George Bush could not dissuade her."I said how come you're using this non-government address? 'Oh, because our computer has a worm','" she said.419 fraud is one of the most common internet deceptions, and like most similar schemes is reliant on sending millions of spam messages in the hope that they land in the inbox of a gullible victim.Although finding victims requires luck rather than judgment, the incredibly low cost of sending email means that such fraud can be highly profitable. A study by researchers at the University of California showed that it took an average of 12.5m spam emails for each response — but that large operations sending billions of messages could make as much as £2m a year.Although Spears is an exception — most victims are fooled into handing over much smaller sums — she is far from being alone.Last year British police helped crack a similar fraud ring which was holding fake cheques worth more than £1bn, which had links to groups in the Netherlands and Nigeria.Although it is difficult to calculate the value of such swindles, because many victims are too embarrassed to report the crime, the government has estimated that such frauds could cost £3.5bn a year in Britain alone.Spears claimed she was sharing her story now in order to prevent others from falling victim to similar scams."You're sitting there going, 'how can I fall for something like that', she said. "It's because they all have these promises that they are going to come through."
YouTube's director of video partnerships Patrick Walker has become an investor in and joined the board of myvideorights.com, the digital distribution firm backed by former Endemol chief creative officer Peter Bazalgette.Walker, who oversees Europe, Middle East and Africa in his YouTube role, joins a high-profile board that also includes former Carlton TV International chief executive Rupert Dilnott-Cooper, Richard Mansell, former director of Protiviti Technology and ex-Sun editor Kelvin Mackenzie.Although Walker's investment in the firm is in a personal capacity, the appointment of a senior YouTube executive is significant for the fledgling firm, which was established in August as a specialist online distributor and monitoring firm for professional web content.Walker joinedGoogle-owned YouTube in January 2006 and has spent 15 years in the media industry working at Real Networks, Intel, the BBC and NHK."Patrick's experience and knowledge in this field is second to none and YouTube is the most important video sharing site in the world," said Bazalgette, adding that YouTube is also in the early stages of trying to monetise videos through pre-roll and overlay ads.Content producers have struggled against the huge piracy problem online and YouTube, as the largest video-sharing website, has faced intense criticism from some media companies and rights owners.Parent company Google is still embroiled in a lengthy legal battle with media giant Viacom, though since the case began YouTube has stepped up its anti-copyright infringement technology to include a "digital fingerprinting" tool that scans uploaded clips and deletes them if they are listed in a database of copyrighted material.Bazalgette said the 40bn clips were watched online last year and that when he was at Endemol overseeing Big Brother the firm was struggling to monetise the millions of clips watched online because so many were illegally distributed."We know that more and more people and watching video clips served on the web, and that's how they want to watch," he added. "MVR has spent £1m on a technology platform that lets content owners distribute clips and platform owners use clips in a way that returns revenue and monetises those clips."MVR has already announced a distribution deal with YouTube, as well as independent production firms All3Media, Zodiak International and Eagle Rock, and sports giant ESPN International.Bazalgette said the firm would be pursuing its second round of funding early next year."The state of the economy has had no effect on MVR at all, other than redoubling our efforts to build the business. It is true that online advertising is growing slightly less than it was, perhaps 15% annual growth rather than 25%, but this is still just the beginning," he added.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Friday's what you playing this weekend edition of Chatterbox
