Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
There's an amusing post on theOfficial Google blogby David Drummond, Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Chief Legal Officer. What it adds up to is a plea for market intervention by government authorities, which is a bit rich coming from a company that has a monopoly market share of search.Of course, this is just a bit of evil Google game-playing. If Drummondreallythinks that combining Yahoo and Microsoft represents a significant threat to Google, then he could be the only man on earth who does. However, it looks hypocritical to me. Drummond says:The openness of the Internet is what made Google -- and Yahoo! -- possible. A good idea that users find useful spreads quickly. Businesses can be created around the idea. Users benefit from constant innovation. It's what makes the Internet such an exciting place.Fine. But it was also the (relative) openness of DOS and Windows that helped create a huge compatible PC market, with lots of exciting innovation. (Not open by today's definitions, of course, but open compared to closed, proprietary offerings from Acorn, Apple, Atari, Commodore, Sinclair, Tandy, Wang etc, who all produced their own incompatible machines.) Anybody could (and still can) go into business selling PCs, and anybody could (and still can) write Windows software. Indeed, Google has benefited hugely from exploiting this Microsoft-sponsored market with Google products.If Google really thinks Microsoft is evil, it can stop marketing the Google Toolbar and Firefox for Windows, and drop even the mediocre support for Office in Google docs. But it seems it would rather take the money and/or market share, and be hypocritical about it.How far Google isopenis another matter. It certainly exploits free open source software, but its "secret sauce" isn't available. Its search algorithms and operations are entirely secret, and Google can delete your site from its index without consulting you or anybody else, and you have no real recourse.Even if you have created your site specifically following Google's rules -- most sites are written for Google nowadays -- it can delete or downgrade it, and it won't tell you why. That's real power.Drummond also says:While the Internet rewards competitive innovation, Microsoft has frequently sought to establish proprietary monopolies -- and then leverage its dominance into new, adjacent markets.There's nothing new in that, of course. Most big companies do exactly the same thing, and the IBM monopoly -- the original Evil Empire -- was a master at it. However, Mr Drummond doesn't seem to have looked at what Google is doing. Seems to me it's taking its monopoly market share in proprietary search and using it to leverage its dominance into new, adjacent markets, including email, messaging, blogging, maps, photos, social networking etc etc.Indeed, Google may even be stifling innovation because its huge market power makes it hard to compete, even if you have a better product. And because Google is hugely rich, it can buy up innovation by taking over other companies such as YouTube, Blogger, Keyhole, Picasa, DoubleClick, Feedburner, Jaiku, Jotspot, Android (to get into phones), Postini, GrandCentral and many more. If you can out-innovate Google, it can, like the borg, absorb you.Google has every right to do this, of course. I'm simply pointing out that people who live in glass houses should be careful in their choice of stones.....
Is 2008 the year of the PS3? EA have seemingly confirmed Sony's recentbullish claimsbypredicting that the PS3 will outsell the Xbox 360this year. Of course, both consoles are predicted to lag behind the Wii, but it seems that the PS3 is on the up. But why? Yes, the Playstation brand is still powerful, especially in southern Europe, but as far as I can see this is all down to Blu-ray. Hardcore gamers are still likely to flock to the 360, which has a superior library and online system. But the PS3 is likely to grab that larger, and more casual, 20-30 something market that is into games but just as keen on tech generally. HD movies via Blu-ray are key to this audience. Marketeers probably call them midcore or something, but if Sony can tap into this market then they may be on to something.Personally I can still see myself playing most multiformat games on the 360 - Xbox Live and gamerpoints are too much to give up. Although this is assuming, of course, that thered ring of deathdoesn't get me again. Anyway, 2008 then - the PS3 strikes back?
If you're an American football fan, you have probably been readingthe website of 24-hour sports network ESPN.National Football League is the site's main focus, and it has been providing saturation coverage of Super Bowl XLII. But if you're a fan of the round ball version of the game, it's twelfth in line on the site, between golf and tennis. And if you're a cricket or rugby fan, you'll find them under the More+ menu heading, below Lacrosse and Mixed Martial Arts.Motor racing provides another example of ESPN's parochialism. Nascar has its own menu item, while the other stuff gets bundled together: IndyCar, Champ Car, Formula One, NHRA ... Yes, that's the menu order. F1 is a bit more significant than NHRA drag racing, but not as important as Champ Car or, say, women's basketball.In sum, the site that bills itself as "The Worldwide Leader in Sports" isn't a leader in worldwide sports, just the ones Joe Sixpack follows.Fantastic siteHaving said that, ESPN is a fantastic site, and provides a huge amount of detailed information. Most American sports generate masses of statistics, and ESPN laps them up. It also throws in lots of photos and videos, comment articles, TV schedules, polls, podcasts and fantasy games.The football - sorry, soccer - coverage is also comprehensive, and includes sections for the US, England, Europe and the Champions League. If you want to look up the results in the Dutch Amstel Cup or check the Belgian Jupiler League table, ESPN has them. However, that's mainly because ESPN boughtSoccernet. Presumably someone realised that the home-grown coverage of the world's biggest game wasn't up to scratch, so they acquired a site that did the job.ESPN also ownsCricinfo, which it bought in June 2007, andScrum.com, which it bought in August. Both are great specialist sites, and could be integrated into ESPN, like Soccernet. Whether ESPN will buy sites that cover sports such as cycling, hockey, badminton, table tennis, volleyball or even sumo remains to be seen. It's one route to world domination.ESPN's problem is that it is an American cable TV company - originally the Entertainment and Sports Programming Network - and it concentrates on the sports it broadcasts. It is now 80% owned by ABC, which is a subsidiary of Walt Disney.Global aspirationsBut ESPN also broadcasts or syndicates sports coverage in more than 190 countries, and there are 14 locally produced versions of its signature SportsCenter TV programme, covering eight languages. The company clearly has global aspirations that are not reflected in its current website, although it does have an Asian joint venture with Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation,ESPN Star Sports.Most American companies grew up with an American internet, and didn't have to worry about foreigners. But times have changed, and many of the web's leading companies are now working hard to expand overseas. That includes Amazon, eBay, Google, Yahoo and many others.Today, ESPN is unbeatable as America's one-stop shop for sports fans. Tomorrow, the world's? We'll see.
On one side is the Church of Scientology, freshly boosted by a $10m donation from the actor Nancy Cartwright, the voice of Bart Simpson.On the other is what the self-styled church has dismissed as a "pathetic" collection of "computer geeks": a maverick band of hackers who have launched an online war against the organisation.The hackers were infuriated by the removal from YouTube last month of a Scientologists' video clip featuring Tom Cruise. They have alleged that Scientologists forced YouTube to remove the embarrassing footage, in which the actor hailed the religion as "a blast".Cruise claimed: "We are the authorities on getting people off drugs, we are the authorities on the mind, we are the authorities on improving conditions ... we can rehabilitate criminals ... we can bring peace and unite communities."Yet the church has appeared powerless to stop the online sabotage. Guerrilla action has so far included the temporary disabling of its international website and "Google bombing", a manipulation of the search engine which has resulted in the website being the first result returned by Google when users type "dangerous cult". Scientology's UK website has been unavailable and in the US the FBI were investigating what they said was the hoax dispatch of white powder in envelopes to 19 churches in the Los Angeles area.Meanwhile, the intensity of the battle shows no signs of easing. A day of free speech protests have been planned outside Scientology centres around the world next Sunday, with campaigners mobilising on Facebook and YouTube.Protesters are vowing to picket buildings in London, Birmingham, Manchester, Edinburgh and York on the British leg of the day of direct action, three weeks after a group of internet activists called Anonymous vowed to destroy the movement.They said they were opposed to Scientologists' "speech-suppression tactics", which they claim include "frivolous" lawsuits and the use of copyright and trademark laws to silence free speech.An Anonymous video posted on YouTube about the anti-Scientology campaign - called "Project Chanology" - has been watched more than 1.7m times. Protest sites against Scientology have also proliferated. Two Facebook groups have more than 3,500 members. A British organiser claims more than 1,000 people will join the UK demonstrations on February 10, with protests also planned in dozens of American cities and around the world, including Toronto, Vancouver, Oslo, Sydney, Melbourne and Dublin."I don't want them to get a foothold in the UK the same way as they have in other countries," said one demonstration organiser, a 21-year-old student who asked to remain anonymous in keeping with the protesters' aims. "They claim to be a church and a religion but they charge people to attend their sessions and they are a registered trademark - that doesn't strike anyone as a religion."The organiser described the protesters as mainly a "youth movement" drawn from all walks of life. "At the start this was a hacker operation but it is more than that now. Scientologists say it's just a bunch of hacker geeks but that's going to be proved wrong on February 10."In a series of warm-up rallies on Saturday, 100 people gathered outside a Scientology centre in Orlando carrying signs saying "Knowledge is Free". In the UK, half-a-dozen protesters leafleted shoppers and brandished a banner reading "Scientology Sucks" in Manchester.Scientologists have fought back by hiring a specialist internet company to help defend its website. In the US, a Scientology spokesperson dismissed the campaigners as a "pathetic" group of "geeks".But they played down the conflict yesterday. "We don't get into responding to such threats on the internet, particularly anonymous ones," said Janet Laveau, a spokeswoman for the Church of Scientology in Britain.Laveau said the online publication by hackers of the Cruise video had caused a surge of interest in the movement. Presenting "these selective and out-of-context excerpts with the intent of creating both controversy and ridicule nevertheless resulted in people searching for and visiting Church of Scientology websites," she said. "Those wishing to find out the Church of Scientology's views and to gain context of the video have the right to search official Church websites." In a US statement, the organisation said it did not threaten websites for posting the Cruise video.But Scientologists have previously mounted legal challenges against other internet publishers. A 10-year legal campaign against a Dutch writer, Karin Spaink, and a number of internet service providers ended in defeat for the Scientologists in court in the Netherlands in 2005. Spaink and others had posted documents from a disaffected former Scientologist that were claimed to be the secretive official teachings.According to Andreas Heldal-Lund, a free-speech campaigner from Norway and critic of Scientology, the "war" has been won by internet activists - with the wide dispersal of negative publicity about Scientology. Heldal-Lund welcomed the demonstrations but condemned the sabotage of Scientology websites."One of the biggest arguments against Scientology is they are a threat to free speech and here they can say people are hitting back at their free speech. It ruins our argument."
On Friday, Yahoo news carried a video of a monkey riding a dog in a rodeo. Which brings us neatly on to the other story of that day, Microsoft's &pound;22bn offer for Yahoo. There is a visual metaphor here if one imagines a primate in the shape of a 400lb gorilla riding a spavined greyhound. Two questions arise when faced with such a spectacle. First, why? And second, is it possible to attempt such a trick with ill-matched beasts without sustaining lasting damage or serious fatality?The Microsoft offer, which might or might not prove decisive depending on how anti-competitive it is deemed by the market and whether another company makes a counter offer, is aimed at whacking Google. Microsoft, which has struggled with the concept of the internet, thinks an alliance with Yahoo would achieve two key objectives. One, it would seek to challenge Google's lead in the search market and, crucially, offer an alternative to Google in the online advertising market.Last year there were three significant deals in online advertising. First the purchase of DoubleClick by Google for $3bn in April, swiftly followed by Microsoft paying a similar amount for aQuantive and Yahoo buying RightMedia for $680m. A merged Microhoo leaves the online advertising market with two key players, neither of them rooted in traditional media. Then there is the elimination of all those competitive commodity services, such as email accounts and instant messenger, which can be rationalised into one, and then the development resources to improve them can all be directed to one place.This all makes sense until one takes into account the unwritten laws of the corporate jungle - or rodeo ring. It is extremely difficult to think of any instance where a merger between the number two and three players in any market has resulted in a toppling of the market leader. Innovation and other factors tend to play a greater part in changing market dynamics than scale alone. It is also possible that Microsoft, being the repository for so many years of impossible corporate feats, will confound decades of precedent, but mergers of such scale are in general bad news if you want to move swiftly in any direction - particularly when the corporate cultures are at odds.It can be that just purchasing scale, or access to a market, can work without integration, such as the MySpace/News Corporation deal. This has seen pretty much zero integration between the old bits of News Corp and the social networking of MySpace; it has potentially meant that the disruption of the purchase allowed Facebook to thrive as it was more focused than the newly acquired site. But the desire to merge products and identities, particularly in an innovative market like the web, can be disastrous.Microsoft/Yahoo has a touch of the Time Warner/AOLs about it. The cultural stretch of an internet ISP and quite an old-fashioned media company coming together damaged both brands and the concept of the mega media merger pretty much beyond repair.  Microsoft and Yahoo share a closer culture and the benefit of both being seen as the uncool runners-up to Google. I'm not sure this is a recipe for overnight success, particularly as the internal digestion and integration of Yahoo into Microsoft will take the focus away from the external market at a critical moment.Then there is the rumble in the industry that Google, by its very scale, its stock listing and its layers of management, which prevent any decisions from being taken without 15 different meetings, is known as "the new Microsoft". But not necessarily to its face.But perhaps the real anxiety ought to be felt by the  media companies who, in the rapidly growing world of online advertising and search, are going to struggle for a global toehold.
Amidst all, you can rely on Mini-Microsoft, the anonymous blogger somewhere within the Redmond Compound, to tell youthe view from somewhere near the ground. His take: expect nothing for a year; and that it can't be much fun for those inside Yahoo.The first thoughts:No one anticipates anything happening by the end of this year, between the additional financial courting that might happen between Yahoo! and other suitors and then the subsequent complicated international regulatory phase. During a US election year, to boot.The reality:Most engineers, as expected of engineers, see all the problems and that it's going to be a staggering mess, let alone that there arethings that Yahoo! does way better than us and that our stuff should be dropped. Strategic optimists and those looking for a promotion will rebrand it as a synergistic opportunity to align our technological assets into a virtuous, hyper-competitive cycle to benefit our users, partners, and shareholders.OK, that's what you might expect, but the final rumination is telling:This will certainly serve as a transition out of the Gates era. Is [chief executive Steve] Ballmer an Ahab figure, chasing the white whale of Google once and for all by roping two whaling ships together? If I write a book on my years at Microsoft one day, will it start out as "Call me Mini," as I reflect on the Microsoft flotsam and jetsam swirling around the world? I hope not.
IBMhas partneredwith Chinese virtual worldHiPiHi, according tothe makersand as reported byMassively. The partnership amounts to the use of the technological infrastructure for the Big Blue's continued interest in virtual worlds, and the joint development of open-standards solutions which IBM began last year with virtual world Second Life.IBM is one of the major on-the-ground players in virtual worlds, pushing the corporate use of such spaces forward. HiPiHi is a relative newcomer on the scene, but one which has caused ripples through the VW-watcher community. Recently, chip-makers Intel launched in the space, and the Chinese government has also settled some virtual scaffolding on its pixellated shores.
Microsoft's $44.6bn bid for Yahoo raises "troubling questions" about the future of the internet, Google has warned. A takeover would also create a business with an "overwhelming share" of online communications services of web-based email and instant messaging, David Drummond, Google's chief legal officer wrote in an uncharacteristically forthright post on the official Google blog last night."This is about more than simply a financial transaction, one company taking over another. It's about preserving the underlying principles of the internet: openness and innovation," he said."Could Microsoft now attempt to exert the same sort of inappropriate and illegal influence over the internet that it did with the PC? While the internet rewards competitive innovation, Microsoft has frequently sought to establish proprietary monopolies - and then leverage its dominance into new, adjacent markets."Could the acquisition of Yahoo allow Microsoft - despite its legacy of serious legal and regulatory offences - to extend unfair practices from browsers and operating systems to the internet?"Google's concerns are likely to add to pressure for any tie-up to be heavily scrutinised by regulatory authorities. The US justice department said on Friday it would be interested in investigating any deal on antitrust grounds. European regulators, already examining many aspects of Microsoft's business, are likely to follow suit.Yahoo's management has yet to say whether it will accept the offer. It is understood to have spent the weekend discussing the $31-a-share cash and stock bid.Microsoft has made no secret of the rationale behind its unsolicited approach: to create a competitor to Google's commanding position in an online advertising market worth about $40bn last year.Google dominates the online advertising market's largest segment, search advertising. In the UK, Google accounts for 81% of all online searches, compared with 6% for second placed Yahoo and 5% for Microsoft's MSN, according to the online data group Comscore.But as the online advertising market expands, to an estimated $80bn by the end of the decade, growth is expected to come from other areas, such as display advertising. Google is already trying to widen its scope, buying advertising network Doubleclick last year. But it believes that other activities, such as email and instant messaging communication, will become an increasingly important vehicle for advertising. Google has already experimented with tying advertising to emails through its Gmail service.Drummond said regulators should ask whether a Yahoo deal could "unfairly limit the ability of consumers to freely access competitors' email, instant messenger, and web-based services".
This week it's been a mixed bag ranging across the whole gamut of subjects. Click through to read the full text from which we chose this week'sprinted letters and blog pingbacks.POPUP BILLING LAWConsumer contracts are regulated by the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract Regulations 1999 which makes unfair terms and conditions unenforceable. If for example, you fail to pay your window cleaner he is entitled to take action to recover money owed to him, that is only reasonable, but he is not entitled to smash your windows regardless of what he has written in the contract. Billing software is one thing, but billing software that is specifically designed to prevent you making lawful use of your property clearly fails the fairness test. The simplest solution to this problem might be to send the dolts at West Yorkshire Trading Standards for some legal training so that they actually understood and enforced the law. Even better if they got it sorted soon before the problem goes mainstream and hits millions of ordinary consumers. Les Jones, NorthamptonPOLITICS OF SEARCH ENGINES&gt;&gt; "Digital sharecroppers" indeed. Wikipedia has been a unexpected successful given that it is the work of largely anonymous people with time on their hands and sometimes expertise. I'm not expecting much from Wikia Search - users will have to do too much work to identify and cut through bias and tampering.www.websearchguide.caSHARPER MAPS&gt;&gt; Often, discussions around the threats of technology to basic human rights seem to assume that if a certain action is made possible by technology then it will be undertaken by someone, that there is an overriding technological imperative before which appeals to "rights", "privacy", "morals" are helpless. And indeed the 192.com approach seems to bear this out. But the fact that 192 is breaking a kind of social arrangement between (in this case) internet companies and the wider photographed public shows that there have been such agreements in the past, that technological innovation does not necessarily have to drive all else before it.flux.futurelab.org.uk&gt;&gt; the site has great resolution but the interface and screen layout is poor - if it was in Google Maps or Live Local it would be great, as it is its a bit of a disappointment.digitalurban.blogspot.comGREENER HUMMERS&gt;&gt; Compare that with the scene from 'Oil Rich' Iraq. Imagine if you had to wait 3 days for a gallon of fuel so you could drive 8 miles in a Hummer.http://photographylot.blogspot.comFIREFOX?After being quite happy with AdBlock and Firefox for many months, I came across the Firefox Myths page (http://mywebpages.comcast.net/SupportCD/FirefoxMyths.html) and was tempted to try Opera; and found it even easier to block the ads, and that without the (admittedly minor) trouble of installing an extension. I also find Opera preferable in certain other respects, including password management, keyboard friendliness (for the mouse-averse) and its "speed dial" facility. Maybe Firefox will catch up with version 3. James Sykes, CheadleMETRICSI didn't go metric in the 1970's (letter from Jennifer Marshal, Jan 24). Like a good many Guardian Technology readers I was conceived in the Imperial years. I can understand 3/4 of an inch perfectly well - 1.94 cm is just damn silly. Almost as silly as making a computer 3/4 of an inch thick. I look forward to seeing the first origami'd Macbook Air. Nick Dore, LincolnTINYURL?I think your use of tinyurl links is very questionable. Firstly, they are not easily remembered - even long ordinary urls might use easily remembered words for folders. Secondly, while ordinary urls may take more print space, you forget the information that they carry in themselves as to the background organisation responsible, and they may consist of names familiar to readers. Thirdly, just by knowing the site url you can usually click through to the information anyway, or do a site search, via google if necessary. I would hope that you could at least give the root company url eg www.company.com corresponding to the tinyurls you use. Peter Douglas, Dublin [Tinyurls save huge amounts of print space, and giving the top-level URL would often not help people to find the precise page in a site; and search is often ineffective. Giving the root domain as well as the tinyurl would use too much print space, which is at a premium - Tech Editor.]STOP THIS ONLINE SHARING! (ONLINE ONLY)Nice article. All the funnier for the disapproving tones of the opening paras! Alan McMahon, LondonBROADBAND SPEEDSMichael Cross hit the nail on the head with his article bemoaning the complacency of Ofcom regarding next generation broadband. Fortunately this complacency is not shared by the minister, Stephen Timms, nor by many in the public and private sectors concerned about Britain's competitive position. If we are to build a true knowledge-based economy we need a communications infrastructure that is fit for purpose. Everyone involved in the 'next generation access' debate knows that copper telephone lines are coming to the end of their useful life. We need to move to fibre-optic and high-speed wireless connections so that our citizens can enjoy next generation broadband speeds like their counterparts in Japan, Korea, parts of Europe and the US. And we need this new infrastructure everywhere, not just in wealthy areas of big cities. The telcos cite a weak investment case as a reason for doing very little. To help prove that demand exists, the Community Broadband Network is working on several pilot schemes to build next generation networks. Whilst the telcos and Ofcom sit on their hands, local communities are rising to the challenge. Malcolm Corbett, CEO, Community Broadband Network
It is a multi-billion deal that will transform cyberspace. But days before news of Microsoft's $44.6bn bid for Yahoo became public, there were few signs that Bill Gates was about to unveil an acquisition that would transform the company and pose a major threat to Google, arguably the greatest success story of the internet age.The Microsoft chairman was in London last week, addressing a gathering of businessmen at an upmarket London hotel, where he showed off the company's latest gizmo: Microsoft Surface, a whizzy new PC that sits inside a desk rather than on top of one. As he spoke, Microsoft president Steve Ballmer was finalising its audacious offer for Yahoo, the internet search engine that has learnt to live in the shadow of Google, its omnipresent competitor. The two companies have talked about forging an alliance before, but now Yahoo's flagging share price has presented Microsoft with an opportunity to buy the company outright. If its bid is successful, it will plug a gaping strategic hole at Microsoft, which dominates the software market but has failed to build a similar presence in cyberspace - despite Gates's prescient prediction that the future of the world's tech giants would be determined by their online presence.The short-term goal is to create a powerful alternative to Google by merging Microsoft's search engine MSN with Yahoo, grabbing a slice of the rapidly growing $40bn internet advertising market. Google is the undisputed leader in the lucrative search market, with a 56.3 per cent share in the US and an estimated global share of close to 75 per cent. Yahoo has 17.7 per cent, but leads Google in some countries, mainly in south east Asia.Google made $11.6bn in 2007 from advertisers. Andrew Frank, an analyst at US research group Gartner, said: 'It has been on Microsoft's agenda to do something about Google's dominance of the search market for a while. They've decided that growing organically isn't working. Plan B is to combine the second- and third-largest search engines to make a concerted run at what is currently a one-sided market. But there's much more at stake here than search. It's about realising the company's vision of where it wants to be.'Gates wants to protect Microsoft's business model in an era when internet giants are morphing into media companies, offering everything from news to email, films and music, and charging advertisers a premium to reach a growing number of users. 'We see Google as a search business, but it is a media company that makes all its money from advertising,' says Peter Rowell, chairman of boutique investment bank Regency Associates, a British technology specialist. As the internet becomes available on mobile phones and television, that market will explode; Microsoft expects it to grow to $80bn by 2010.'Microsoft is trying to become the equivalent of an online search and content supermarket where users go for their every online need,' says Aleksandra Bosnjak, an analyst at StrategyEye Digital Media. That represents a seismic shift for the company, which makes most of its money from software. 'Essentially, they are engineers,' says Rowell. 'This deal would transform their existing business model.'In London last week, Gates talked repeatedly about 'internet pervasiveness', and explained that companies were likely to use the internet to store more information online, removing the need to buy and maintain their own expensive servers. Microsoft and its competitors want to charge them to host that data, but that is just one example of change. Computer programs are constantly evolving online, many becoming available free of charge. The implications for a company that licenses software are alarming. Buying Yahoo would give Microsoft access to the expertise needed to address these changes, and a culture of innovation that some claim it lacks.The deal may not happen. Some observers say Microsoft's offer undervalues the company. There is also a regulatory threat hanging over Microsoft's attempts to expand. 'Try not to get sued by anyone, particularly your own government,' Gates remarked sardonically last week, when asked if he had any advice for budding entrepreneurs. The American authorities have treated Microsoft leniently since abandoning a bid to break it up in the Clinton era, but the EU competition authorities have been less pliable, fining the company last year.In London last week, those who had assembled to hear Gates speak were shown a video spoofing his last day at Microsoft before he steps down as chairman in the summer. It includes cameos from Hillary Clinton, George Clooney, Barack Obama and others - a powerful illustration of the global standing Gates's achievements have given him. If he buys Yahoo, he will have transformed the company he created - preserving his legacy, and ensuring that his status as the world's most famous geek is secure.
It's probably entirely coincidental that since rumours recently ripped through the internet of the CIA being 'behind' Facebook many folk have started posting photos of themselves with album covers in front of their faces. They may successfully mask their visages from any agency wishing to collect headshots of everyone in the world, but the main motivation behind such 'Sleevefacers' is to create larfs (in some cases 'awesome larfs'), while letting it be known they are groovingly cool enough to collect vinyl.'Sleevefacing' is any obscuring of a face with an album cover which 'matches in' with, say, the holder's shoulders or torso, to create a visual illusion. DJs are said to have started this craze. One in particular, Carl Morris, held Macca's face, on the cover of McCartney II, in front of his mug while manning turntables in Cardiff. Then he decided it was 'childish', yet went on to formsleeveface.com. On Facebook 3,000 such illusionists are experimenting with the medium - photographing images in which fists or limbs on album covers seem to impact on those holding them, 'romantic sleeve portraits' (of canoodling couples obscured by Lennon and Ono's Double Fantasy cover or Crippled Dick Hot Wax's Popshopping 2), or playing with transgender and interspecies ideas.Some snap sophisticated group portraits or domestic tableaus in which ever greater numbers of sleeves are cleverly incorporated. Others attempt to use two gatefold sleeves, or tricky little seven-inch single or CD covers, or just turn to Bookfacing, which makes them look more intellectual, literally. But some drink one too many Stellas and find themselves producing 'sleeverotica'. Musical artistes who've ever displayed their bottoms or open mouths on album sleeves will likely find themselves shuddering this year.
Wall Street  bankers and lawyers advising both sides of Microsoft's $44.6bn hostile bid for internet group Yahoo stand to make as much as $1bn in fees between them if a deal is struck in coming months.The bid, launched in the small hours of Friday morning from Microsoft's Seattle HQ, is one of the biggest-ever hostile bids in the technology sector. Microsoft is being advised by Blackstone, the recently listed private equity house, and by investment bank Morgan Stanley. Yahoo is understood to be taking advice from Goldman Sachs, the blue-chip investment bank which, ironically, has a history of working for Microsoft on mergers and acquisitions. However, the bank also has an existing relationship with Yahoo: Goldman previously advised on the internet group's $6.62bn purchase of Broadcast.com, its biggest ever deal.Lehman Brothers is also said to be advising Yahoo but, as with the other banks working in the shadows of the deal, a spokesman declined to comment.On the legal front, Simpson, Thacher &amp; Bartlett and Cadwalader, Wickersham &amp; Taft are providing legal advice for Microsoft. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp; Flom is representing Yahoo.The fees paid to bankers and lawyers for advising on such mergers are a closely guarded secret, but it is often speculated that 2 or 3 per cent of the value of the deal is paid out to all advisers, with bankers and lawyers taking the lion's share.This would mean the advisers on Microsoft's bid would share between $890m and $1.1bn. A source close to Microsoft's advisers suggested the bankers working on behalf of Bill Gates's software giant were expecting about 0.5 per cent of the deal's value each. That means Morgan Stanley and Blackstone could be paid as much as $223m apiece.The cash-and-stock offer of $31 a share - a 62 per cent premium on Yahoo's Thursday closing price - was made in a letter sent by Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer to Yahoo's board. Yahoo said its directors would 'evaluate this proposal carefully and promptly in the context of Yahoo's strategic plans'.The deal aims to attack Google's dominance of the internet advertising market, where both Yahoo and Microsoft have struggled despite years of costly effort. Google picked up more than $11.6bn of advertising revenue in 2007, compared with $5.1bn at Yahoo and just $2.8bn at Microsoft.Microsoft has tried to establish its MSN brand alongside Yahoo and Google for internet services such as search, chat and email, but has failed to establish a viable market share. Sources close to Microsoft said the MSN brand would probably be dropped from most internet areas if the Yahoo deal were sealed.
MondayBest selling game of 2007?Mass Effect expert recantsIcehouse design competitionTuesdayTorchwood ARGIs SNES the greatest?Beat the junkWednesdayLost in "looking good" shockerAI in UT3 interviewMark Rein intervewThursdayA passage through timeHow actors are rescued by videogamesKawashima not a gamerFridayWhich games make you happy?EA's funny new boxing game
Microsoft's attempt at a hostile takeover of Yahoo has created a lot of interest, but Microsoft has reportedly been trying to do a friendly deal for some time. In May last year, for example,The New York Postreported such discussions, saying: "But Yahoo! spurned the advances of the Redmond, Wash.-based software giant. Wall Street sources put a roughly $50 billion price tag on Yahoo!."It's not hard to see reasons why Microsoft should attempt to do the deal now. Microsoft has just turned in ablockbuster quarter, with profits up thanks to sales of Vista and Office 2007. It expects to do well this year with the release of Server 2008 etc. Yahoo, by contrast, is having a tough time, and is reportedly planning to lay off more than 1,000 staff. Its share price was down, which is reflected in the fact that Microsoft may now be offering less for Yahoo ($44.6bn instead of $50bn), though it may have to increase its offer to complete the deal.What the results of the deal might be are a matter of speculation:the truth is that nobody knows.Of course, at least two people at Microsoft -- Steve Ballmer and Ray Ozzie -- must have some idea what they are attempting, but even they don't know if they can pull it off. Even well-intentioned friendly mergers can go badly wrong, yielding results that were never intended. Hostile ones are even riskier.Still, here are three general scenarios, depending on which way Microsoft wants to take it:(1) Eat Yahoo alive.Microsoft could simply absorb Yahoo, moving its products to Windows, and key staff to Redmond. Microsoft will get market share in search, more page views and more ways to sell them, but the sum of the union will be much smaller than the parts. For example, adding 300m Yahoo Mail users to 250m Hotmail users does not get you 550m unique email users, because a lot of people (perhaps most people) have accounts on both systems. And if youforcepeople to change, they might just as well switch to Gmail.(2) Best of breed. There is, as I said back in May, a huge overlap between Yahoo's online product offerings and Microsoft's; indeed, there's quite a lot of overlap between Yahoo's and Yahoo's. It would make sense to sit down and figure out which ones are best, and eliminate the redundancies. This is what Microsoft isproposing, and it will probably hurt Microsoft staff more than it hurts Yahoo staff. It would be a big win for things like Flickr, because Microsoft could quickly remove internal competition from both Yahoo and Microsoft, and drive Flickr adoption via direct links from Vista.(3) Make Yahoo its consumer division.It's pretty clear that Yahoo does some things well, but those don't include either planning or marketing. It's also pretty clear that while Microsoft can do those things, its main focus is on businesses, and it's nothing like as good at handling consumers. One solution would be to make Yahoo responsible for all Microsoft's online "consumer experiences", from a base in California, while enabling Redmond to focus exclusively on businesses. This would help preserve the value of the Yahoo brand name, which Microsoft says it loves, and avoid unnecessary changes in technology. More staff would move south than would move north, and one of them might be Ray Ozzie.Thefirstoption is the one assumed by most Microsoft haters, and it's obviously not part of Microsoft's public plans. The problem is that while Microsoft won't deliberately eat Yahoo alive, it could do it unintentionally. Implementation is everything.Thesecondoption is the one Microsoft seems to intend, from what it has said. It's also the option that worked pretty well for HP and Compaq, and Adobe's takeover of Macromedia. Whether the result would be worth $44.6bn is another issue -- I think not -- but for Microsoft, the money isn't that important. Remember, it gave away $30bn because it couldn't think of anything to do with it, and it's currently spending more than $20bn buying its own shares. So the real question is this:Is it better for Microsoft to spend $20bn on Yahoo or to spend $20bn on Microsoft shares?If the takeover has to be done, thethirdoption is the one I'd take, because I think it has the best chance of working. It would give Microsoft a good brand it could sell to consumers, and a much bigger presence in Silicon Valley (taking some of the pressure off Redmond). There's nothing new about giant corporations having separate divisions, and no reason why a $60bn (going on $70bn) company has to be run from one megasite in the wet north-west. But is Microsoft ready to take that step? I think not.What do you think?
SeenThis? is anew Facebook application widgetthat allows you to share what you're reading with friends, automatically and anonymously. It has grabbed a fewheadlinesbecause of the involvement of The Wall Street Journal, but other partner sites include NBC, CNet's BNet, Tech Republic and ZDNet.The WSJ was already using the technology, fromLoomia, for a feature on its site called "People who read this ... also read these stories".One advantage for Facebook users is that they get to read recommended WSJ articles for free, instead of having to pay the usual subscription.There's coverage atTechCrunchandABC News, and fromAP.
Steve BallmerThe Microsoft chief executive has been with the company for 28 years, and his associations with its founder Bill Gates go back even further - they were Harvard students together. He was the first business manager hired by Gates, and after a series of executive posts within the company became president in 1998, then chief executive two years later. Ballmer is  the man driving Microsoft's mission to win the battle for the internet. His "Dance Monkeyboy" video - in which he jumps around the stage at a Microsoft rally, - is a firm favourite on YouTube.Jerry YangBorn in Taiwan, Yang, 39, lost his father when he was two and moved to California in 1978. He set up Yahoo with David Filo in 1994, developing their ideas about the internet from a trailer. Their website directory was first called Jerry and David's Guide to the World Wide Web, before they hit on Yahoo, taking their inspiration from the savage creatures in Gulliver's Travels. Yang's decision last year to take direct control was interpreted as a move to bolster confidence after the share price fell amid problems with the advertising system.Larry Page and Sergey BrinPage and the Russian-born Brin, both 34, met at Stanford where Page decided to focus his studies on the internet, then in its infancy, and to examine the mathematics behind links between web pages. Brin joined him on the project and the two started developing algorithms that could massively improve the efficiency of searching the pages of the internet. The result was Google. The two founders now take a salary of just $1 a year but are sitting of multibillion-dollar paper fortunes through their shares in Google. By October 2007, Google became the fifth largest company on the US stock market with a market capitalisation of $219bn (&pound;111bn).
Microsoft yesterday launched an audacious $44.6bn (&pound;22.4bn) bid for internet rival Yahoo in an attempt to create an online search and advertising group that can rival market leader Google.The deal, which the board of Yahoo was considering last night, would bring together one of the internet's largest and oldest destinations, Yahoo, with Microsoft's MSN platform in the biggest internet merger since AOL bought Time Warner for $112bn in 2000.As well as Microsoft's software business, centred around its Windows operating system, the merged group would span online services from internet search and news to email and instant messaging. Yahoo also owns the popular photo sharing site Flickr and social bookmarking service del.icio.us.Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, telephoned his counterpart at Yahoo, co-founder Jerry Yang, late on Thursday night before going public by publishing his letter to the board yesterday. "When you combine the strengths of our two companies the result will be an incredibly efficient and competitive offering for consumers, for advertisers and for publishers," he said.The global online advertising market is expected to balloon from $40bn last year to $80bn by the end of the decade. But Google has a commanding lead in the largest segment of that market, online search. In the UK, for instance, Google accounts for 81% of all online searches compared with 6% for second placed Yahoo and 5% for MSN, according to the online data group Comscore."Today the market is increasingly dominated by one player," said Kevin Johnson, president of the platforms and services division of Microsoft. "The fact is the industry will be better served by having a more credible alternative."European internet executives agree that Google needs a serious competitor. "A Yahoo acquisition by Microsoft will improve competition in the European search market, which is overwhelmingly dominated by Google," said Andrew Walmsley, co-founder of the London-based digital media agency i-level.But Google has recently been widening its business to include other forms of online advertising. Microsoft hopes adding Yahoo's expertise will give it more weight with advertisers.Yahoo, however, has had a disastrous two years. Having been one of the pioneers of the internet, delays to the launch of its new advertising platform - called Panama - sparked a series of profit warnings. Earlier this week Yang unveiled plans to axe 7% of the company's workforce after unveiling a 24% drop in fourth quarter profits to $205m. Yahoo's shares have performed badly, dropping from just over $34 in October to a four-year low of $18 on Tuesday. Microsoft is offering Yahoo shareholders $31 a share in a combination of cash and its own stock.Speculation was rife on Wall Street last night that Google could hit back with a bid for another of the internet's oldest properties, AOL, in which it already has a 5% stake.The merger of AOL with Time Warner in 2000 marked the height of the dotcom boom and created a $350bn company, but the tech stock crash and the rise of Google have left the merged business worth $56bn. Some on Wall Street fear that an amalgamation of Microsoft and Yahoo could meet a similarly disastrous fate.
Larry Brilliant has a habit of solving big problems. As a doctor working for the World Health Organisation (WHO) in the late 1970s, he turned his energies towards one of the planet's most destructive diseases: as a result, he is one of those credited with eradicating smallpox.The Seva foundation, which he set up a few years later, took on another big issue - the agonising lack of proper eyecare in the developing world - and pursued a programme of preventative medicine and minor corrective surgery. In 2005 the scheme won him the prestigious TED (Technology, Entertainment, Design) prize, and Seva has now saved the sight of an estimated 3 million people.These days Brilliant might be approaching retirement age, but he's set himself some new challenges, among them lowering the cost of renewable energy, spotting pandemics before they happen and creating jobs in Africa. This time around, however, he's not going it alone. In fact, he's got the backing of one of the most powerful companies in the world.It is two years since Dr Brilliant - "only Jacqueline calls me that," he confides, motioning to a colleague - took over Google's philanthropic foundation,Google.org, and two weeks since the announcement of an ambitious slate of projects. When we meet in the company's London offices - a dotcom-meets-kindergarten zone of computer screens and primary colours - Brilliant is preparing to hold a meeting at which he will explain the foundation's objectives to 500 employees and tell them how they can get involved.The scope of Google.org's plans is broad. As well as the renewable energy investments and development of disease monitoring systems, Brilliant is also working on non-petrol based cars, improving public services and aiding small businesses in developing countries. Google has pledged 1% of profits to the foundation as well as 1% of stock. With a total initial investment of $175m (&pound;88.3m), the idea is to support and create organisations which can push these projects and, as time goes on, push more money into the areas that show most promise. This being Google, there is much more cash in the bank - an estimated $2bn (&pound;1.01bn), with more to come in spite of this week's underwhelming results.Despite such big numbers, Brilliant says he was unsure when first approached to run the organisation. "They called me up and I wasn't sure. I knew why I fitted - I'm comfortable with technology and I'm certainly comfortable with health and foundations," he says.Google may be known as the quirky giant of the internet industry, but Brilliant's background is even more colourful. Born in Detroit just before the end of the second world war, he trained as a doctor in the 1960s before enthusiastically joining the counterculture while an intern at a Californian hospital. He acted as an on-site doctor to radical protests, hanging around with the Grateful Dead, starring in hippy movies and trucking around India. It was a decade later, living on the subcontinent with his wife Girija, that he started working with the WHO on smallpox prevention.Round-figured and with a neatly-trimmed beard, he now looks more suited to his later career as an academic and technology executive. But he remains passionate about public health, and says it was difficult to narrow down a hitlist of priorities."Female genital mutilation; water; early education; the oceans; the Amazon," he says, counting down on his fingers. "These are just some of the hugest, most gut-wrenching issues of our day that we weren't able to do, because, well, you can't do everything."One particular dream was hard to give up. After years spent fighting preventable diseases, Brilliant had come to Google with the ambition to defeat malaria. The scheme never made it past the drawing board."I still think it's one of the most important things in the world," he says. "But two things happened. Firstly our team thought that we had more to offer in the technology of early warning for these new communicable diseases that are emerging, like bird flu, Sars and West Nile virus." Success, he says, could "prevent tens or hundreds of millions of people from dying".He was also swayed by another hi-tech philanthropist: Bill Gates. When the Microsoft chairman announced that his own mega-foundation would fund the fight against malaria until it was completely eradicated, Brilliant says he was left with "tears in my eyes".Brilliant says we are now witnessing the emergence of a cadre of super-rich hi-tech philanthropists who are opting to use their skills and money to tackle seemingly insurmountable problems. Rather than simply turn the spotlight on specific issues using their fame and fortune - the celebrity preacher model, favoured by stars like Bono and Bob Geldof - these silicon samaritans are searching for ways to fix problems.And techno-philanthropy is increasingly becoming the rule rather than the exception. Alongside Gates and Google founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page, stand a generation of ubercapitalists who are investing their vast wealth in charity work, including eBay backers Pierre Omidyar and Jeff Skoll, and Marc Benioff, the founder ofSalesforce.com.This new-found emphasis on doing good through technology is not without its problems. Some health campaigners have suggested that technology entrepreneurs share a robotic approach, and fail to take into account that not all problems have technological solutions. Brilliant admits he had his doubts about working for Google's founders, fearing they would expect progress to be made at the lightning speed of the internet, rather than at the slow crawl of social and political progress."I'd be dishonest if I said I didn't have concerns," he admits. "I was particularly concerned at the impatience of engineers - especially because I've run internet companies."I used to teach my students that their schemes wouldn't be successful until two things happened: that they would be able to run without you, and that you knew the names of the grandchildren of the people you started the project with: that's because it takes a generation."But for now Brilliant says he is happy. "What I've found is that the reason things take so long is that they're being done by doctors like me, who aren't trained to look at a problem, slice it and dice it, figure out where the logjams are and engineer a solution."He is excited by these new businessmen, and their new ways of dealing with the planet's problems."It is different," he says. "I don't believe this ever existed before, and it's one of the things that makes me optimistic about the world. Where did they come from? How did they have these values? I don't know the answer, but I observe a total change. This whole cohort of individuals is fascinating to me."
Microsoft's bid for Yahoo is a public confession of failure: an admission that despite the company's resources Microsoft has failed to build up an effective presence on its own in key areas such as search, web advertising and services that Google has been so spectacularly successful at. Instead it is trying to buy its way into the 21st century. Microsoft has proved very successful at preserving its 90% plus monopoly of operating systems, spreadsheets and word processing but is much less successful where it faces stiff competition.Will it work? Academic studies indicates that most mergers fail because they are entered into for the wrong reasons (defence against a predator, buying market share or just management aggrandisement). It is not immediately obvious why this one will be any different. If this is a plan to use Yahoo's vast networks to protect Microsoft's monopoly base it will almost certainly fail. If it uses Yahoo as the vehicle to drive the combined company into hosting services - from photographs to documents - on the web rather than your hard disk (which is where Microsoft is powerful) then it could be a success. Microsoft was late to realise the importance of the web but when it did it acted ruthlessly to establish a strong presence. But to succeed this time it may need to make this a reverse take-over by letting Yahoo lead the way. That is not Microsoft's style.There are obvious benefits in merging their web advertising businesses but in other areas they will find that merging, say, web communities, such as Yahoo's Flickr photo site, with Microsoft's versions will be difficult technologically and culturally because they attract different kinds of people.The biggest argument in favour - and one that may tip the balance with the competition authorities - is that the combined company could provide much needed competition for Google which is in danger of becoming too dominant in the search market. So far, with some exceptions such as giving in over censorship to the Chinese authorities, Google has been a model corporation. But the stronger it gets, the greater will be the temptation to misuse its power. According to the latest figures from ComScore, Google currently has 62% of the global search market but the combined new company would only have a global share of 15.7%. But this doesn't adequately reflect their relative strengths in other areas.Anyone who believes in the widest possible competition and on the economic consequences of mergers must have reservations about this one but at least it might help Google to help itself.&#183;Vic Keegan is the Guardian's technology columnist
Holed up in a rickety construction trailer on the campus of Stanford University, two graduate students were supposed to be finishing their doctoral studies. Instead, Jerry Yang and David Filo began messing around on the world wide web - at the time, a largely unexplored phenomenon.Both in their early 20s, Yang and Filo were surrounded by empty pizza boxes, discarded papers and student detritus. They started fiddling with quirky homepages. Yang put up his golf scores, his name in Chinese characters and a list of his favourite websites. As they stumbled on new finds, this index began to grow. It was initially called "Jerry and David's guide to the World Wide Web" but then in 1995 Yahoo was born.Throughout the rest of the decade, Yahoo was the undisputed leader on internet "portals". When the company went public in 1996, its shares rocketed by 154% in a day and within three years, Yang and Filo were worth $8bn each. Things were going like a dream - until a little known private competitor called Google came along."Google came out with a smarter search engine," says Mark Malseed, co-author of The Google Story. "It was much more based on relevance. They made much of their 'purity', their philosophy was that you shouldn't be able to pay to come out higher."For a time, a tightly fought tussle between Yahoo and Google enthralled Silicon Valley. But Google quickly gained the upper hand, staffing up with cheap talent laid off by larger Silicon Valley firms when the dotcom bubble burst in 2000. By the beginning of this year, Google accounted for three quarters of all searches on the internet. The word Google entered the Oxford English Dictionary.With a market value of $160bn, Google's power has become awe-inspiring. Its profits rocketed 40% to $4.2bn last year and it swallowed the popular video-sharing website YouTube.Its success has been greeted with alarm by the corporate establishment. Microsoft, based 800 miles to the north in Seattle, has watched Google diversify into free-of-charge "apps" - applications such as spreadsheets and word processors which encroach on classic Bill Gates territory.Through Microsoft's $44.6bn takeover bid for Yahoo, the technology establishment hit back at Google's seemingly unstoppable rise."We've been getting unsolicited feedback this morning from publishers and advertisers that this is the right kind of stuff," said Microsoft's general counsel, Brad Smith, on a conference call with analysts. "This will create a more powerful number two in the marketplace."The deal, Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, suggested, was the only way to make up the gap between Google and the rest of the marketplace: "Sure, we could have hired more engineers. But the market continues to grow and the leader continues to get stronger."Ballmer, who is Bill Gates's closest lieutenant, is worth $15bn. But in a milestone widely remarked upon in Silicon Valley, his wealth was surpassed last year by Google's founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, who each own more than $16bn worth of shares.Analysts say the bid is a highly unusual move for Microsoft. "This is a very uncharacteristic deal for them," says Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at Jupiter Research. "Ballmer has always had disdain for deals of this size."It is far from an out-of-the-blue idea. Yahoo's painful struggles have been all too public for years. Although it is still the most visited page on the web, its share of global searches has been steadily shrinking. Microsoft, which holds third place in the search market through its MSN website, tried to talk Yahoo's management into a deal in late 2006 and early 2007, to no avail. Tie-ups between Yahoo and eBay and Disney have been mooted but have come to nothing.To many, Yahoo's slide has been of its own making. A software update known as Project Panama, which was supposed to tailor advertising to searches far more effectively, suffered a series of catastrophic delays. The company dabbled in social networking, auctions, photo sharing and videos without much conviction or focus. Its blundering efforts to comply with the Chinese government in surrendering the identity of email users prompted a congressman to compare Yahoo to a "moral pygmy". Inside Yahoo, unease became increasingly apparent. In a leaked memo dubbed the "peanut butter manifesto", a senior Yahoo executive, Brad Garlinghouse, complained that the firm was spreading its resources far too thin like a sandwich spread stretched to cover too many slices of bread.In a bid to restore urgency, Yang retook control of Yahoo last year, ousting its long-serving chief executive Terry Semel. But progress has been slow and Yahoo's shares have trickled downwards."Every day the stock does not make progress, every day it continues to wallow, some kind of deal becomes more likely to occur," said Scott Kessler, an analyst at Standard &amp; Poor's after Yahoo revealed a 24% slump in profits earlier this week.The pressure is on. Yahoo responded non-committally to Microsoft's takeover offer yesterday, saying only that its board would evaluate the bid "carefully and promptly". But shareholders are likely to want to sell.Together, Microsoft and Yahoo will be able to attract more advertisers to their combined family of websites. It is unlikely they can match Google's acknowledged mastery in "pure" internet searches. For Microsoft, buying Yahoo amounts to an effort to restore its once unshakeable position at the top of the technology tree. But for Yahoo, selling out will be a galling end to once glorious, ground-breaking road.To reassure unsettled staff, Yang addressed his entire workforce on a hurriedly arranged conference call yesterday. In its proposal, Microsoft suggested it could make $1bn of annual cost savings - a figure which is bound to cause alarm about job cuts.A tie-up of such magnitude is bound to attract the interest of regulators in the US, and the EU is also likely to investigate. Few, however, believe that the obstacles will be insurmountable.Bloggers said the battle for online supremacy would be transformed. BusinessWeek's Tech Beat column said: "If it goes through, we suddenly have a two-horse race on the net, with Microsoft-Yahoo the one force with a chance to slow down search giant Google."
In recent weeks I have banged on about Open Source, expending two articles on Firefox alone. Open Source applications make their code available to everyone. Disagreements and rabid balkanisation within the Open Source community aside, for our purposes the term might as well refer to free software whose licence allows you to share the source code, alter it, use it, do with it what you will.The two great pillars of Open Source are the GNU project and Linux. I shan't burden you with too much detail, I'll just make the outrageous claim that your computer will be running some descendant of those two within the next five years and that your life will be better and happier as a result.I am writing this article on a kind of mini John the Baptist, a system that prepares the way of the software saviour whose coming will deliver the 90% of world computer users who suffer under Windows from the expensive, clumsy, costly, ugly, pricey toils of Microsoft.The Asus EEE PC perched on my knee combines GNU software with a Linux kernel powered by an Intel Celeron Mobile Processor to produce a very extraordinary little laptop. It weighs less than a kilogram, starts up from cold in about 12 seconds and shuts down in five. It has no internal hard disk and no CD drive. It offers 512MB of RAM, 4GB of storage and a seven-inch display; wireless, dial-out modem and ethernet adaptors are available for networking and internet connections, three USB ports,  mini-jack sockets for headphones and microphone, a VGA out, an SD card slot and a built-in webcam. All for about &pound;200 - less than the price of a show, dinner and taxi for two in London's West End.When you press the EEE's power button, the lightning speed and quietness of boot-up tell you that you are in the hands of a solid state flash drive: no vulnerable moving parts and buzzing platters here. Within seconds a tabbed screen will appear on your display: the tabs are labelled Internet, Work, Learn, Play, Settings and Favourites. A click on each reveals a page containing bright, clear icons that relate to 40 separate applications and half a dozen or so selected web links. The applications include Skype, Firefox, Thunderbird (the Mozilla mail client) and OpenOffice.org, an Open Source suite of applications that allows you to create and edit Word, Excel and Powerpoint documents. One of the pre-installed web links is to Google Docs, which lets you do the same MS Office compatible work online. This combination of "server side" applications and Open Source software is, rightly, scaring the heck out of Microsoft which is in danger of relying, in a few years' time, on its excellent Xbox games console for income and kudos, its domination of personal computing a rapidly diminishing memory. Well, I'm allowed to dream.The EEE is far from perfect: system software claims two-thirds of its meagre 4GB of storage, the keyboard is sub-par, the trackpad worse; it seems a shame to boast a built-in webcam and a full field of IM clients, yet be incapable of videochat; the OS, a customised version of Linux, part Debian, part Asus's own creation, makes downloading outside the bundled software updater uncertain. But these defects are minor compared with the machine's astounding value and functionality - and to the future trends in computing it heralds.This is a computer designed as an introductory machine for children or adults, as well as a simple cheap do-it-all machine along the "One Laptop Per Child" model but which is also absolutely ideal as a truly cheap, portable, resilient device to slam into a backpack or briefcase. Everything you could want is there in free, Open Source form. It does not pretend to cater for the power user but, while file management is basic for the average person, tuxheads (Linux experts) can go straight to terminal mode and do their stuff. Meanwhile, for the rest of us, this is a wonderful little friend who does all we need straight out of the box. And it is only the beginning...&#183;Read Stephen Fry's blog here:stephenfry.com/blog/
This BBC circular, which went to everyone in the Future Media &amp; Technology group, came to me from a friend. I think I'll leave the comments up to you:"The Pronunciation Unit has been asked to add the phrase "web 2.0" to its database. It has been suggested to us by a BBC software engineer that "web two point oh" is the most usual pronunciation in the British web community, and we wanted to test this with you. If you feel that you use or have heard the phrase frequently enough to be confident of a usual British pronunciation, please choose one of the five voting buttons above before Monday to let us know your opinion. We will use your responses to make our recommendation."The options, in case you're interested were "Two point oh", "Two dot oh", "Two point zero", "Two point nought" and "Other". I'm sure there are some wackier options out there.
Zack & Wiki: Quest For Barbaros' TreasureWiiIt's hard to dislike a game about a cartoon pirate and a hovering monkey, but that's just the start of Zack & Wiki's endlessly alluring combination of quirky humour and cleverly designed problems. Helping the offbeat pair in a quest to revive legendary pirate Barbaros and find his treasure, progress involves pointing the Wii-mote at items onscreen to work out what needs to be prodded, plucked or thrown into place to get hold of the treasure - obviously a pirate's first order of business. Interacting with objects using the controller is an absolute delight, letting you shake things out of trees, play the flute, pull levers and ring a special bell to get Zack's trusty companion Wiki the flying monkey to kill your enemies. Sounds like paradise, doesn't it? It's a mark of the game's huge pull that even as Zack's tiny body is repeatedly crushed, incinerated or eaten by a giant fish, you can't help loving it and wanting to see more.&middot;Capcom, &pound;39.99Geometry Wars: GalaxiesNintendo DS WiiFlushed with its success on Xbox Live Arcade (phrases like "most downloaded game" often appear in Geometry Wars advertising blurb), the franchise is back, this time in proper, grown-up, boxed format, albeit at a budget price. The mainstay of the game - steer with one hand, direct a relentless stream of electric death with the other - thankfully remains intact, and now takes advantage of the unusual control methods afforded by the Wii and Nintendo DS, not that either makes much of a difference. With a much greater emphasis on collecting bonus multipliers, you can rack up some truly monumental scores, increasing your volume of fire until the often limited play area fills up with exploding enemies and the outgoing ordnance that stalks them. Utterly absorbing and pretty much impossible not to swear at, Geometry Wars: Galaxies is at least as mildly diverting as its forebears.&middot;Sierra, Nintendo DS &pound;19.99, Wii &pound;25
iFixit photo of the Mac Air motherboardiFixit hastaken apartone of Apple's thin but heavily compromised MacBook Air notebooks. It seems you have to take out 10 screws to remove the base, then another 9 screws to extract the battery. "Replacing the battery is straightforward, but not something you'll be doing when your battery dies mid-flight," says the site.The machine has 88 screws in all.
If you're on the outside looking in, MMOs (short for MMORPGs, or massively multiplayer online role-playing games) can be highly confusing entities. To clear it up: MMOs involve creating an avatar to represent you, then collaborating with or killing any of the 1,000s of other players you meet in a digitally generated world. Easily the most successful MMO outside Korea, the world's undisputed online gaming capital, isWorld Of Warcraft, whose highly addictive blend of dungeons, trading and the steady drip feed of experience to level your character up, safely justifies its "World of War-crack" soubriquet. News from developer Blizzard suggests the game has reached a landmark 10 million subscribers. The dull, self-aggrandisingSecond Lifeclaims to have more than 12 million, an assertion undermined by the experience of visiting - Warcraft bustles, Second Life can feel extremely lonely.
I still can't get used to the idea of a phone with a built-in camera, but I do like being able to send pictures as texts or emails from my phone. Is there a camera with Bluetooth that will enable me to do it?Yes, the idea is appealing, particularly since, as an added bonus, you could also buy a Bluetooth-enabled printer and send pictures straight to paper without needing to plug in any cables. Unfortunately, many manufacturers aren't convinced there's a market for this sort of thing, so Bluetooth cameras are very rare beasts.One good but relatively low-budget model is the 6 megapixel Kodak Easyshare V610 - it's been discontinued, but you may find one for around &pound;200. Higher up the scale is Ricoh's rugged little Caplio 500SE (around &pound;600), with an 8 megapixel sensor and a waterproof, rubberised body. The option of Bluetooth or wireless connectivity is mainly intended for connecting to GPS devices, so you can keep track of where you took pictures, but it would do for picture sharing, too.There is one happy note: most manufacturers are now starting to include Wi-Fi connectivity with their cameras, so you may well be able to get what you're looking for in a different way soon.&#183;Email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
Holed up in a rickety construction trailer on the campus of Stanford University, two graduate students were supposed to be finishing their doctoral studies. Instead, Jerry Yang and David Filo began messing around on the world wide web - still, at the time, a largely unexplored phenomenon.Both in their early 20s, Yang and Filo were surrounded by empty pizza boxes, discarded papers and student detritus. They started fiddling with quirky homepages. Yang put up his golf scores, his name in Chinese characters and list of his favourite websites. As they stumbled on new finds, this index began to grow. It was initially called "Jerry's guide to the world wide web" but then in 1995, Yahoo was born.Throughout the rest of the decade, Yahoo was the undisputed leader on internet "portals". When the company went public in 1996, its shares rocketed by 154% in a day and within three years, Yang and Filo were worth $8bn (4bn) each. Things were going like a dream - until a little known private competitor called Google came along."Google came out with a smarter search engine," says Mark Malseed, co-author of The Google Story. "It was much more based on relevance. They made much of their 'purity', their philosophy was that you shouldn't be able to pay to come out higher."For a time, a tightly fought tussle between Yahoo and Google enthralled Silicon Valley. But Google, set up in a Menlo Park garage, quickly gained the upper hand, staffing up with cheap talent laid off by larger Silicon Valley firms when the dotcom bubble burst in 2000."A lot of firms, including Yahoo, were letting people go," says Malseed. "Meanwhile, Google was growing - and growing cheaply. They were able to hire good people at great rates."By the beginning of this year, Google accounted for three quarters of all searches on the internet. The word Google entered the Oxford English Dictionary. It became Hertz, to Yahoo's Avis."It was really about Google's execution - in terms of technology, in terms of strategy," says Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at Jupiter Research. "Google was the upstart - but it executed so quickly and so successfully that it left the other companies behind."With a market value of $160bn, Google's power has become awe-inspiring. It profits rocketed 40% to $4.2bn last year and it swallowed the popular video-sharing website YouTube.Its success has been greeted with alarm by the corporate establishment. Microsoft, based 800 miles to the north in Seattle, has watched Google diversify into free-of-charge "apps" - applications such as spreadsheets and word processors which encroach on classic Bill Gates territory.Once a byword for monopolistic behaviour itself, Microsoft has frequently cried foul. Its general counsel went to the US Senate last year to try to stop Google from buying an advertising firm, DoubleClick.Google, said Microsoft's general counsel Brad Smith, was already like FedEx and several other firms combined."Now they're proposing to buy the post office," he said.Through Microsoft's $44.6bn takeover bid for Yahoo, the technology establishment hit back at Google's seemingly unstoppable rise.On a conference call with analysts, Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, made no bones about the intention."We've been getting unsolicited feedback this morning from publishers and advertisers that this is the right kind of stuff," said Ballmer. "This will create a more powerful number two in the marketplace."The deal, he suggested, was the only way to make up the gap between Google and the rest of the marketplace: "Sure, we could have hired more engineers. But the market continues to grow and the leader continues to get stronger."Ballmer, who is Bill Gates' closest lieutenant, is worth a cool $15bn. But in a milestone widely remarked upon in Silicon Valley, his wealth was surpassed last year by Google's founders, Larry Page and Sergei Brin, who each own more than $16bn worth of shares.Analysts say the bid is a highly unusual move for Microsoft - and is a sign of its anxiety to get back in the internet game. It is the biggest takeover offer in the US since AT&amp;T merged with Bell South in early 2006."This is a very uncharacteristic deal for them," says Gartenberg. "Ballmer has always had disdain for deals of this size."Most visited page on the webIt is far from an out-of-the-blue idea. Yahoo's painful struggles have been all too public for years. Although it is still the most visited page on the web, its share of global searches has been steadily shrinking. Microsoft, which holds third place in the search market through its MSN website, tried to talk Yahoo's management into a deal in late 2006 and early 2007 - to no avail. Tie-ups between Yahoo and both eBay and Disney have been mooted but have come to nothing.To many, Yahoo's slide has been of its own making. A software update known as Project Panama, which was supposed to tailor advertising to searches far more effectively, suffered a series of catastrophic delays. The company dabbled in social networking, auctions, photo sharing and videos without much conviction or focus. Its blundering efforts to comply with the Chinese government in surrendering the identity of email users prompted a congressman to compare Yahoo to a "moral pygmy".Inside Yahoo, unease became increasingly apparent. In a leaked memo dubbed the "peanut butter manifesto", a senior Yahoo executive, Brad Garlinghouse, complained that the firm was spreading its resources far too thin like a sandwich spread stretched to cover too many slices of bread."We focus on nothing in particular," he observed in a devastating critique of his own superiors. "We lack a focused, cohesive vision for our own company ... we lack decisiveness."In a bid to restore urgency, Yang re-took control of Yahoo last year, outsting its long-serving chief executive Terry Semel. Some fancy new Yahoo devices for mobile phones went on display at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas this month. But still, progress has been slow and Yahoo's shares have trickled downwards."Every day the stock does not make progress, every day it continues to wallow, some kind of deal becomes more likely to occur," said Scott Kessler, an analyst at Standard &amp; Poor's after Yahoo revealed a 24% slump in profits earlier this week.At the time, another Wall Street expert complained: "Basically what Yahoo is saying is 'have more patience with us' when investors have already given them two-and-a-half years to transform their business."The pressure is on. Yahoo responded non-commitally to Microsoft's takeover offer today, saying only that its board would evaluate the bid "carefully and promptly".But shareholders are likely to want to sell the company. Youssef Squali, a technology expert at stockbroker Jeffries &amp; Co, said: "Yahoo and Microsoft are a natural combination. The board [of Yahoo] is going to have a hard time resisting the deal."Together, Microsoft and Yahoo will be able to attract more advertisers to their combined family of websites. It is unlikely that they can match Google's acknowledged mastery in "pure" internet searches. But with the onset of so-called "Web 2.0", cyberspace is expanding in a social direction through networking websites, collaborative dictionaries, music and video sharing. Microsoft's recent purchase of a stake in Facebook made its ambitions clear - and Google has been noticeably weak on this front."Google just hasn't had any traction with its own social networking attempts," says Malseed.For Microsoft, buying Yahoo amounts to an effort to restore its once unshakeable position at the top of the technology tree. But for Yahoo, selling out will be a galling end to once glorious, ground-breaking road.Yang likes to style himself under the job title "chief Yahoo". The company's advertising used to feature a distinctive yodel which prompted a $5m copyright lawsuit from a "professional yodeller" in Washington state who claimed to have written the ditty. It is unlikely that such quirks will survive within the multinational corporate embrace of Microsoft.
Builders know this: if you get it wrong at the foundations, then the structure will never be right, no matter how hard you try. Look at the Tower of Pisa, built on too-soft ground. Despite enormous modern efforts (pumping concrete beneath one side, steel hawsers), it's impossible to straighten.And so it is with Internet Explorer. Mistakes that Microsoft made in the development of its browser - for commercial reasons that at the time were perfectly reasonable - have now come back to haunt its modern incarnation in a way that looks impossible to exorcise. So, because of decisions taken in the late 1990s, any future version of IE will be forced to render some web pages as though it were the clunkiest product that ever walked the earth.Back in 2001, Microsoft conquered the browser world with Internet Explorer 6. Meanwhile Netscape Navigator expired, but not before breathing its last words, rather like Obi-Wan Kenobi facing Darth Vader: If you kill me, I'll become stronger than you can imagine. IE had killed Netscape - or so Microsoft thought.By 2001, web developers had grown used to the "IE tax". When designing a web page they had  to check to see whether the incoming browser identified itself as Internet Explorer (using the "browser agent string" that every browser passes to the server). If so, they served up one set of HTML that dealt with the strange quirks of IE6. If not, they served up the more standardised HTML. This became so familiar that some developers began to think that it was the other browsers that were at fault. But no,it was IEthat didn't conform to standards for layout.Netscape rebornBut now all that has come back to bite Microsoft. With Netscape defeated, it neglected IE for years - which allowed Firefox, the reborn (and fragmented) Netscape, to rise from the ashes as the idea of standards compliance grew. As more devices (such as phones) began to access web pages, it became more important to be sure you could write one standards-compliant version that would look the same on all devices. Microsoft has pushed into the mobile browser market, so it is nowadays much more interested in standards compliance, because it has discovered that if you don't do standards, then the web passes you by.Now Microsoft has discovered standards, it has also discovered that all those years ago it created a monster. The problem is this: whenever its new, more standards-compliant browser visits an old webpage, it will be detected and served up the old, "quirky" code. Other browsers will get the standards-compliant code. (If you want to see how standards-compliant your own browser is, visit thethe Acid2 test page. There's no code to download, just a page of exacting (to a browser) layout. You should see a big grinning yellow face, like a sub-Simpsons doodle.)Is being treated as quirky so bad? Yes, for IE. It means that it has to carry a greater overhead of code, some to render the old "quirky" code and some to render the new, compliant code. Dave Hyatt, who is in charge of Apple's WebKit browser code - also used in the iPhone and in Google's promised Android mobile phone platform -points tothis as the real problem:"We think maintaining multiple versions of the [WebKit] engine would have many downsides for us and little upside. The IE team is, of course, under different constraints and free to make their own choices."Except, of course, the IE teamcan'tmake many choices. They're stuck with it. The new scheme that they have come up with for Internet Explorer 8 - due some time in the next year or so - demands that web developers include a tag in the headers of the page saying "X-UA-Compatible", which translates to "Welcome, standards-compliant IE!" If IE doesn't find that tag, it will assume the web page is assuming thatitis an old, quirk-ridden version.Quirky codeYou can see the logic (which was thrashed out by the IE team and some of theWeb Standards Projectteam). Old, non-updated pages will lack the tag, will have no knowledge that there's a newer version of IE and will serve up the quirky code even to standards-compliant IE. New pages with the tag know that there's a "good" version of IE, and work with it. It's the converse of browser detection by the web page: it's page detection by the browser.This hasn't been uniformly welcomed - nor dissed - in the browserblogosphere. (You can seea roundup of commentary.) Some really don't like it.Jeremy Keith, a Brighton-based web developer, explains why:"If you don't include a X-UA-Compatible instruction, you are also condemning your site to be locked into the current version: IE7."In fact it gets worse, he says. In certain circumstances relating to CSS (the underlying code detailing page, font and type layout), unless you explicitly tell IE8 to behave as, well, itself, it will behave like IE7. "That's madness!" he says. While he likes the idea, he thinks the default (of assuming that the page was written for IE7, or earlier) is "wrong, wrong, wrong". His suggestion: assume the page was written for a standards-compliant IE. But what about all the old pages?Trouble is, Microsoft's chosen approach means future versions of IE have to be larger and more complex than if Microsoft had made IE standards-compliant in the first place. And that in turn hurts its ability to build for the mobile web of the future - which is potentially huge. Don't forget, there are billions of phones out there and in time they're going to have more and more internet capability. Google was full of praise for the iPhone during its latest results: it's seeing plenty of people using MobileSafari (which uses WebKit) to do searches.Internet Explorer, though, will always be detected and served up a soup of junk - which might restrict its share of the mobile market if (a) pages don't render correctly on a mobile (b) the code's too big to squeeze onto a handset. Even while storage is roughly doubling every year, phones and smartphones have a long tail where upgrading happens only slowly. And for developers coding the mobile web, the idea of only writing one version of a page or site is very attractive."Don't break the web"This is the outgrowth of Microsoft's "Don't Break The Web" rule, one which it made internally when it thought it pretty much owned the web. It means: don't release a new version of IE that doesn't render old pages as they're expected to. It thought it had done this with IE7, released in 2006. But no.On Microsoft's own blogs, Chris Wilson, the IE platform architect who has been on that team for more than a decade, noted the team's surprise at how things didn't get better with IE7:"In IE7 we made a lot more changes to improve IE's standards compliance, particularly with CSS. We limited these behavior changes to IE's "standards mode" only, and we expected that this would help limit compatibility problems as it had in the past. Unfortunately, and somewhat surprisingly to us, this wasn't true; many of those changes made IE incompatible with content that was already part of the web. It turned out by the time IE7 shipped in late 2006, roughly half of the top 200 US web sites were in "standards mode". Many of those sites had been "opted in" to standards mode by a tool that generated their content; many of them had probably been hand-coded by someone who was trying to do the right thing, and make their HTML code valid according to the W3C [World Wide Web Consortium]. Regardless, users of those sites expected them to keep working the same, even when they downloaded a new version of IE. Unfortunately, that didn't happen."But wait, a lot of people say at this point, why isn't this a problem for Firefox, or Safari, or any other browser? The answer is that developers of many sites had worked around many of the shortcomings or outright errors in IE6, and now expected IE7 to work just like IE6.It's the monster that Microsoft created for itself. It built the foundations incorrectly and now the building's superstructure is out of kilter. It may not collapse under its own weight, but the team in Redmond demanding that we attach steel hawsers saying "X-UA-Compatible" to our new web pages while they pump concrete under the web are certainly prooof positive of the real benefit of non-proprietary standards.Internet Explorer conquered the web. Now the web is exacting its revenge.
We were so excited about Microsoft's audacious bid to buy Yahoo that we managed to squeeze ourselves into the studio here at the Guardian Gulag and record an additional podcast - our first Tech Extra.Bobbie Johnsonis joined byCharles ArthurandJemima Kissas they ponder the whys and wherefores - and leave you wondering what $44bn really looks like.(What do you think? Shall we call them 'Microhoo'?)
Microsoft has launched an audacious $44.6bn (22.4bn) bid for internet rival Yahoo in a deal designed to create an online advertising powerhouse to rival market leader Google.Microsoft, which came late to the internet advertising market, is offering Yahoo shareholders $31 a share in a combination of cash and its own stock. The deal would rank as one of the largest dotcom takeovers since AOL and Time Warner merged at the height of the tech stock boom.The news boosted shares in London, sending the FTSE 100 back through the 6,000 level. On Wall Street this afternoon, shares in Yahoo surged almost 50%, to $28.26, while Microsoft fell 5% to $30.94. Google tumbled 9% to $512.90 as analysts anticipated the potential impact of a Microsoft-Yahoo tie-up on its business.There has been intense speculation about the two giants getting together with Yahoo rebuffing an offer from Microsoft just last year. Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, said today that he called his counterpart at Yahoo, Jerry Yang, on Thursday night before going public with the offer."Our companies really do share a vision for the potential of online services and advertising specifically," Ballmer said on a conference call with analysts this afternoon. "When you combine the strengths of our two companies the result will be an incredibly efficient and competitive offering for consumers, for advertisers and for publishers."A year ago the Yahoo management team told us it was not really the right time to discuss an acquisition, we believed then in the benefits of combining the two companies and we believe now in those benefits more than ever."In a statement, Yahoo said it had received the unsolicited proposal and its board "will evaluate this proposal carefully and promptly in the context of Yahoo's strategic plans and pursue the best course of action to maximize long-term value for shareholders".Yahoo's position has certainly weakened over the past year as repeated delays to the roll-out of its new advertising platform Panama have sent its shares into freefall. Earlier this week Yahoo shares fell to a four-year low as Yang, who replaced long-serving chief executive Terry Semel last summer, announced plans to axe 1,000 jobs following a 24% drop in fourth-quarter profits to $205m.But while Yahoo has suffered, Google has powered ahead in the online search market - which it comprehensively dominates with a global share estimated at 75% - and made moves into the wider online advertising market.Microsoft reckons the global online advertising market will grow from over $40bn last year to nearly $80bn by 2010 and as the market grows, advertising platforms must consolidate to get the benefits of scale. Yahoo, for instance, was once the undisputed market leader in online search, but now controls just 17.7% of the US search market compared with Google's 56.3%.Microsoft believes that putting together Yahoo's search and online advertising technology with its own onto one central platform will create a much more powerful competitor to Google."Today the market is increasingly dominated by one player," said Kevin Johnson, president of the platforms and services division of Microsoft. "By combining the assets of Microsoft and Yahoo we can offer a more competitive choice for consumers, advertisers and publishers. The fact is the industry will be better served by having a more credible alternative in the areas of search and advertising."Ballmer admitted that Microsoft could have continued building its existing business on its own but the deal will be "an accelerant to progress" in catching up with market leader Google."Sure we could have hired engineers and kept hiring engineers and we are very good at that," he said. "But at the same time the market continues to grow and the leader continues to consolidate its position."On analysts' call, Microsoft's executives went out of their way to praise Yahoo's contribution to the growth of the internet. "Since its early years Yahoo has played a key role in the growth and evolution of the web," said Microsoft's chief software architect Ray Ozzie. "We have tremendous respect for the engineering team and the work they have done, they have been pioneers and leaders in building compelling high-scale services and infrastructure."But the firm's takeover approach will be seen by many in the internet industry as extremely opportunistic. While $31 a share is a 62% premium to Yahoo's current stock price, the shares have plunged in recent months from a 52-week high of just over $34 in October.Microsoft reckons it can cut costs across the combined business, leading to savings of at least $1bn a year. It reckons the deal, which it would like to close in the second half of this year, will have a small beneficial effect on its own financial results by the second full year of ownership.While it has tinkered with its long awaited Panama platform, Yahoo has missed out on several high-profile internet advertising deals. Google snapped up MySpace's traffic while Microsoft saw off Yahoo and Google and signed an advertising deal with Facebook which also saw the Redmond-based company take a small stake in the company. A year ago, Yahoo had made a tentative offer for the social networking site.If any deal is agreed it is likely to be heavily scrutinised by regulators on both sides of the Atlantic. As well as their positions in the online search market both companies are major players in the wider online advertising market and have recently made moves to buy ad-serving companies, which place adverts on websites and are seen as playing a crucial role in the future development of online advertising.Last year Google snapped up ad-server Doubleclick while Microsoft bought aQuantive, Yahoo bought RightMedia and WPP snapped up 24/7 Real Media.Analysts were split over the merits of the deal. One called the 62% premium "exorbitant", but others suggested it could help the markets shrug off the recent financial turmoil.Internet advertising executives, meanwhile, welcomed the possibility of a stronger competitor to Google. "A Yahoo acquisition by Microsoft will improve competition in the European search market, which is overwhelmingly dominated by Google which has over 80% of the market in UK, France and Germany," said Andrew Walmsley, co-founder of London-based digital media agency i-level.
1975:Bill Gates founds Microsoft after dropping out of Harvard1981:Microsoft's makes its first breakthrough with its DOS (Disk Operating System) software1985:Launch of the first version of Microsoft Windows1994:Stanford students Jerry Yang and David Filo start working on an early version of Yahoo in a campus trailerMarch 1995:Yahoo is incorporated by founders Yang and FiloAugust 1995:Microsoft moves on to the web, launching online service the MSN networkApril 1996:Yahoo is floated with just 49 employeesSeptember 1996:Yahoo launches in the UKSeptember 1998:Google is incorporated by founders Larry Page and Sergey BrinDecember 1999:Yahoo enters the S&amp;P 500 index of top US companiesJanuary 2000:Gates is succeeded as Microsoft chief executive by Steve Ballmer, but stays on as chairmanMay 2001:Terry Semel, the boss of the Warner Brothers studio, becomes Yahoo's chairman and chief executiveDecember 2002:Yahoo starts buying other search companies, starting with InktomiAugust 2004:Google's flotation paves the way for a dramatic acceleration in the company's growth: two months later it had overtaken Yahoo's market capitalisation with a value of $50bn (25bn)March 2005:Yahoo acquires photo-sharing site Flickr, one of a number of web 2.0 purchasesOctober 2005:Yahoo and Microsoft make their instant messaging services compatible, an early example of "co-opetition" in the face of Google's growing powerAugust 2006:Google buys video-sharing website YouTube for $1.65bn (840m)June 2007:Semel steps down as Yahoo chief executive and is replaced by Yang, Susan Decker becomes presidentOctober 2007:Google becomes the fifth largest company on the US stock market with a market capitalisation of $219bn (111bn), with Microsoft just ahead in third placeJanuary 29 2008:Yahoo announces it will cut 1,000 jobs, 7% of its workforce, as shares plunge to a four-year lowJanuary 31 2008:Yahoo announces that Semel is standing down as chairmanFebruary 1 2008:Microsoft makes a $44.6bn (22.4bn) bid for Yahoo&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
We were so excited aboutMicrosoft's audacious bid to buy Yahoothat we managed to squeeze ourselves into the studio here at the Guardian Gulag and record an additional podcast - our first Tech Extra (click here for the MP3).I'm joined byCharles ArthurandJemima Kissas we ponder the whys and wherefores - and leave you wondering what $44bn really looks like.There's also lots more coverage of the bid:Microsoft takes on Google with $44.6bn takeover bid for Yahoo;Markets surge after news of bid;Why Microsoft made its move;The problems of merging Yahoo and Microsoft.(What do you think? Shall we call them 'Microhoo'?)Charles adds:Mini-Microsoft, the anonymous blogger who has consistently argued that Microsoft should be trying to get smaller, not bigger,says his first reactionwas "That's a lot to pay for Flickr".And then:Man, if I was in the Online Services Division I would be worried. Especially if Yahoo! did something my team did and did it well.And then:"If the buy goes through, it will be one huge turning point for Microsoft: I think we'll either turn it around brilliantly and our mega-investment will be worth it, or we'll be torn asunder and revert back to our core cash cows. It will be a story worth telling, one way or the other. In the meantime, that big huge money-chest is going to go empty, and that might bring a new sense of clarity to our operations."Indeed, the moneychest will be empty: Microsoft had $19bn in cash in hand at its last quarterly results, and it says half of this bid will be cash, half shares. Which means it's going to have to borrow a few billion from the money markets.You know - those money markets which are suffering a credit crunch, with nobody sure quite who owes what, and insurers suffering huge losses. Yes,thosemarkets. Even with Yahoo's $2bn of cash that it'll get, that's going to mean straitened times for everyone involved. Three years from now, assuming this goes through, the headcount of Microhoo will be substantially less than the individual count of the two now, I'd wager.Jack adds: Microsoft won't have a problem finding the cash, because it won't be paying out any time soon. If the deal goes through -- and it's a big if -- it will get some government scrutiny, and it's not going to be completed inside six months. By that time, Microsoft will have added roughly $12 billion in operating income, which should be around $9 billion in net profits. It could even take three quarters, like Google's DoubleClick purchase, or longer. In that case, the effect on Microsoft'scurrentmoneychest could be rather small.Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunesor download this to your computerThe podcast feed URLVisit our Facebook group
I love EA press releases - they're so full of Joie de Vivre. Today, the company has officially announced its new arcade boxing title named, Facebreaker - I thought this was relevant to my 'games that cheer you up' post below."Laugh out loud as you pummel your opponent with a barrage of blows to the face and watch in satisfaction as your progress is illustrated by real-time facial deformation," the release gaily instructs.Here's a quote from EA Sports President Peter Moore. I have provided translations."We're very excited to announce FaceBreaker, an all-new franchise from EA SPORTS..."He meansgame."...that is fun, fresh and innovative."It's a bit like Ready to Rumble."In no time at all, you'll be picking up the controllers and knocking your opponent around the ring, smashing faces, and having a riot."Lacks depth.Ha ha, I'm joking of course. And as it's by the team behind Fight Night Round 3 it should be quite good. You can apparently graft a photo of your own face onto the visage of your fighter adding a personal element to the combat. It's heading for Wii, PS3 and Xbox 360 later this year.Hereis more information.
Between them, Microsoft and Yahoo own some of the most popular online services in the world. Yahoo as a whole remains among the top websites on the net, used by more than 130 million people each month (MySpace is its biggest competitor); Microsoft, meanwhile, has hugely popular programs such as MSN Messenger in its pocket.But what would it mean for ordinary users if the two were brought together?The picture remains unclear at the moment, despite Microsoft saying it has created a detailed integration plan, but a deal would be likely to result in several popular products hitting the skids.The email service Hotmail, for example, is one of Microsoft's flagship web products, but it remains second to Yahoo Mail, which has nearly half of the market. In the end, one system would probably end up overtaking the other, even if the names remain in place.Elsewhere, closer integration of their competing instant messengers would make sense. With Microsoft the world's dominant software company thanks to the Windows platform, Yahoo messenger could eventually see the curtains come down.It also appears likely the two would not be able to keep their search engines running separately. One of the main reasons to merge is the failure of their respective products  Yahoo search and Live search  to oust Google as the market leader. Recent figures suggest Yahoo search is more than twice the size of MSN at the moment.Elsewhere, millions of people who use the pair's other services will be scratching their heads. What happens to your blog, photos or the music and video you have online?Again, the news here could be better if you're an existing Yahoo user. Ray Ozzie, Microsoft's chief software architect, said these sorts of services are exactly what appeals in the deal. Yahoo is well placed, with a number of leading social web properties such as the photo-sharing website Flickr and the events site Upcoming. These would most likely replace some of Microsoft's less-used products.Ultimately, the deal could lead to Yahoo's website incorporating many of the innovations Microsoft has tried to force through to the internet, including online Office programs, which have come under some fire as Google launches its own web-based documents and spreadsheets product."We need to increasingly embrace the internet, there will be innovations where Windows and Office continue to be energised by the internet," the Microsoft chief executive, Steve Ballmer, said today. "We have some thoughts, but a team from both companies would be best prepared to assess that."
MicrosoftThe software giant started out more than 30 years ago as Bill Gates's brainchild and has grown to be one of the world's biggest companies and best known brands.Microsoft had revenues of $51bn (26bn) for the fiscal year ending June 2007, and employs more than 78,000 people in 105 countries and regions.The company's business is built on the popularity of its operating systems, from MS-DOS in the 1980s through to successive versions of the Windows system.Microsoft's success triggered complaints about market dominance and attracted the scrutiny of regulators on both sides of the Atlantic.Microsoft was quick to exploit the potential of the internet in the mid-1990s, setting up the MSN network, and introducing services such as hotmail and the msn.com portal.Only with the rapid rise of Google in recent years has its supremacy in the technology sector start to look threatened.Bill GatesAlthough Gates is in the process of focusing less on Microsoft, the company he founded more than 30 years ago, and more on the charitable foundation he runs with his wife, he is still synonymous with Microsoft.He is still the company's chairman and will remain so even after he relinquishes day-to-day involvement with Microsoft in July. The success of Microsoft has brought him unimaginable wealth: Forbes magazine has ranked him as the richest man in the world between 1995 and 2007, putting his worth at $56bn (28bn).Steve BallmerBallmer's associations with Microsoft founder Gates go back a long way - he lived down the hall while they were both Harvard students. While Gates dropped out to focus on his embryonic computing business, Ballmer took a degree in mathematics and economics.He joined Microsoft in 1980, the first business manager hired by Gates, and rose through the ranks to become president in 1998, then chief executive two years later. He took leadership of the company at a time when the importance of online search capabilities was starting to be realised.YahooFounded in 1995, Yahoo was the brainchild of Stanford dropouts Jerry Yang and David Filo. The company pioneered internet search before Google established itself.After the collapse of the dotcom boom, in 2001 they recruited Terry Semel, the boss of the Warner Brothers studio, as an outsider to sharpen Yahoo's credentials as a media company.Under his charge the company expanded rapidly, expanding its staff from 3,500 to 12,000. But the Semel years also coincided with the extraordinary growth of Google and its success generating revenues from advertising.Semel's attempt to take on Google in search advertising with Yahoo's Panama product met with muted enthusiasm and he was replaced as chief executive by Yang in June last year.Yahoo's share in the US search advertising market now stands at 23% compared with Google's 58%.Yang has promised a 100-day recovery plan, but critics have complained that a coherent strategy has yet to emerge.This week, as shares fell to a four-year low, the company announced that it will cut 1,000 jobs, 7% of its workforce, in its biggest downsizing since the end of the dotcom boom at the beginning of the decade.Jerry YangBorn in Taiwan, he moved to California as a child and graduated in electrical engineering from Stanford. He dropped out of his doctorate to set up Yahoo with Filo. When Semel, Yahoo's chief executive for six years, stepped down in June last year, Yang stepped out from the shadows to become his surprise replacement.His decision to take direct control was interpreted as a move to bolster confidence after the share price fell and the company experienced problems with the Panama advertising system. But doubts about strategy have persisted and intensified this week as the company announced job cuts and now faces a takeover approach.Susan DeckerAs president, Decker is Yang's key lieutenant as he attempts to shore up investors' confidence in Yahoo. Long seen as the likely successor to Semel, she stepped up to her current role when Yang took the reins in June.She had previously spent seven years as Yahoo's chief financial officer, spending her last year in that job heading the company's advertising division.Among her non-executive roles is a seat on the board at Berkshire Hathaway, the investment firm run by legendary stock market player Warren Buffett - a man who has pledged to give away much of vast his wealth to the foundation run by Microsoft's Gates.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
News of the $44.6bn approach to Yahoo from Microsoft sent the FTSE 100 back above the 6,000 level.US futures also jumped initially, with the Dow Jones industrial average predicted to open around 120 points higher. The US technology index Nasdaq was originally forecast to open lower, but the futures are now showing a 15-point gain.Weaker-than-expected jobs data from across the Atlantic later cut the forecast rise, although Wall Street was still expected to open around 67 points higher.By 1.45pm, the  FTSE 100 was 122.2 points higher at 6,002.7, a bright start to the month after the worst January on record.Global markets have been undermined by growing fears of a US recession, worries about the continuing repercussions of the credit crunch, not to mention the rogue trader scandal at French bank Socit Gnrale.
Microsoft's $44.6bn (22.5bn) offer for Yahoo confirms months of speculation that the two companies would join forces to tackle Google's domination of the online advertising market.If Yahoo's board accepts the deal, it would be one of the biggest ever takeovers in the technology or media industries and herald a new and more challenging era for Google.Yahoo is seen as a more consumer friendly brand than Google, but one that is less technologically efficient and has not been as commercially focused.Microsoft, meanwhile, has a diverse and ubiquitous range of technologies that have made it a household name, but similarly one that has not been seen as consumer friendly as Yahoo.Screen Digest analyst Arash Amel said a takeover would present the first real competitor to Google both as an online services provider and in the crucial advertising space in which all three firms have competed."Yahoo lost direction when Terry Semel took charge," Amel added.The former Yahoo chief executive was replaced by co-founder Jerry Yang in June, and announced last night that he has also stepped down as non-executive chairman."As a former Warner Bros executive, he made this big play for the content space with Yahoo a new entrant that could produce and distribute content as a portal. But that never quite materialised and it lost direction," Amel said."By the time Google and YouTube came along, it was far behind. This is a concerted move by Microsoft to build a consolidated block against Google."Amel also said there is a belief in the industry that Yahoo's shares are undervalued compared with the other major technology firms and that the merger would also help both companies "exploit the greenfield" of mobile advertising.The two companies were rumoured to be in talks in 2006 and Microsoft was revealed to have offered $50bn for the firm in May last year.Executive reshuffles, a 100-day review and new corporate strategy have all failed to reassure investors and Yahoo's share price is at its lowest level for three years, but a merger with Microsoft would present a serious competitor to Google.The merger approach comes at a time when Google may also be facing concerns over a possible turndown in advertising. The company's share price dropped by 8% last night after fourth-quarter profits were below expectations at $1.2bn.Google executives have said the search giant would be immune to any economic slump because of the strong and persistent trend in growing online advertising.Share of the search market is critical for both Yahoo and Google, feeding their core advertising revenues.In the US, Google has a 58% share of the US search market, while Yahoo has a 23% share.A Google spokesman said: "It would be premature for us to comment at this time."&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Trying to put two companies together almost always leads to tears, the destruction of value and, of course, job losses, and the result is never quite as good as the separate pieces.Bearing that in mind, let's examine the task that lies ahead if Microsoft succeeds in its audacious - and expensive - bid for Yahoo. The reason for the bid is clear: Yahoo is wounded, having announced financial results on Tuesday which, for the eighth quarter in a row, disappointed analysts. Microsoft, meanwhile, desperately wants to reinvent itself to meet the new online world, where people access a world of services on the internet, not through packaged software on a PC on their desk.The two companies are best known for their free email services, Yahoo Mail and Hotmail (the latteracquired by Microsoft 10 years ago). Yahoo probably has more than 300m active accounts; Hotmail hasmore than 280mactive accounts; while Google's Gmail service is a distant third, with about 50m accounts. (Many of those may be duplicates; I'm on all three myself.)Yahoo is the leading site for news, email and finance, ahead of Google (and far ahead of Microsoft's poorly viewed Live service). It offers photography through its Flickr service; online documents, communication and collaboration through theZimbraservice; and dozens and dozens of other services. Microsoft has struggled to push more content and, importantly, services on to the web.Crunching those two organisations together seamlessly would be like trying to shuffle a 50ft-high pack of cards without dropping any. And the problems start right at the bottom. Yahoo's servers, answering billions of page requests every day,use a web system called PHPto generate customised pages. Microsoft doesn't like PHP, which is free and has alicencethat obliges people to release any changes they make to it back into the community.Microsoft prefers its own web system, calledASP,to build web pages, and that's what it uses onWindows Live, its online equivalent of Yahoo.Integrating Yahoo into Microsoft would mean either tearing out PHP and replacing it with ASP, a huge project that would be enormously expensive while bringing no visible benefit to users, or require Microsoft to accept an open source product deep within its new property. Neither is palatable; if Microsoft dogma is followed, it will throw out PHP. Watch out for the reliability of Yahoo if it does.Take the giant part of Yahoo, its mail servers.Those runon a free, open source operating system called FreeBSD. Microsoft Live's mail serversrun on Windows, of course.If Yahoo swapped from FreeBSD to Windows, the licensing costs would be enormous. Obviously, Microsoft will find a way around that. But the underlying problem is that this migration from one platform to another is the sort of task that gives chief information officers sleepless nights and ulcers. Interestingly, Microsoftdid exactly thiswith Hotmail in summer 2000. Can it repeat the trick in 2008-09? Again, watch out for the reliability of your systems. And this would have to be repeated again and again across Yahoo's sprawling mass of content and pages; in many cases, it would be more sensible for Microsoft to dump its own offerings (on, say, stocks, whereYahoo's finance pagesbeatMicrosoft'shands down).And there is one part of the integration that hasn't been mentioned: the staff. Microsoft used to be the go-to place in technology. But it has gradually lost its sheen and, while Yahoo hasn't been a delightful place to work given the financial gloom around it, one should anticipate a lot of people revising their CVs. Microsoft may be big, but it's not that popular.Still, one company may benefit from Microsoft attempting to shoehorn Yahoo into itself. Google will be able to offer a web-leading home to top developers who like open source. Just remember this five years from now: most mergers fail.
Not many teenagers can say they have contributed to changing the world, but Emily Cummins has a credible claim. Last year, at the age of 19, she was named innovator of the year in the British Female Inventors and Innovators Awards for her solar evaporation refrigerator. Made from sustainable materials, it enables developing countries to refrigerate medicines and food without electricity.Cummins, who is now studying business at Leeds University, began inventing things in that spiritual home of British ideas, the garden shed, at the age of four, when her grandfather gave her a hammer. "I used to spend hours in his shed," she says. "He would mess around, turning a lawnmower into something else. With the leftover parts, he taught me and  my cousins how to use machinery. I got a  buzz from being creative and by the time I  got to secondary school, I was using pretty  hi-tech tools."For her technology GCSE, she designed a toothpaste dispenser for her other grand- father, whose arthritis had left him unable  to squeeze the tube. This invention brought her the title of regional winner of the Young Engineer for Britain Award in 2003.Driven by her concerns about climate change, Cummins came up with the idea for her solar evaporation refrigerator at just 17. Having designed the fridge and got it produced, she took it to Namibia after her A-levels to test it. "With the help of a translator, I was able to get the opinion of township inhabitants, which made me want to continue to develop the product. What I love about inventing is the fact that you can solve a problem with a design, get rewarded for it and help other people all at the same time," she says.Cintra Jaggan-Vince, a former nurse, was motivated by a more immediate and personal problem. Debilitated by a bad back, she had to rely on her nine-year-old daughter to help her dress. "She got so fed up with dressing me, she told me to invent something 'to pull on your own pants, Mum'. So I did. I got some suspender clips and attached them to a harness I'd made out of webbing - and it worked. Well, obviously, I'm not the only person in the world with a bad back. So I road-tested it on some 80-year-old neighbours who were healthy but not flexible, and my mother-in-law who had just had spinal surgery. I had great feedback, but they found the clip difficult to operate, making it impossible to use for people with arthritis or only one hand. I made a new protoype from hinged plastic knife handles. It worked like a cross between a clothes peg and a bulldog clip: strong on the grip, but soft on the squeeze." The Clip &amp; Pull, as it was christened, is now manufactured and produced in China and has aroused considerable international interest.So has she made a lot of money?"Not yet, because it's a brand new idea. But potentially, it will make millions. With a global population of six billion, it's entirely plausible to sell 20m a year. We're making the product economically viable for poor economies, but more expensive for rich economies. So I don't care if I make 25p or a &pound;1 per item, it's the  benefit to people that matters."The British Female Inventor and Innovator of the Year Awards, which celebrate their  10th anniversary this March, were founded  by a self-confessed "failed inventor", Bola  Olabisi, to encourage and stimulate the work of female inventors, a notoriously rare breed. Olabisi set up the Global Women Inventors &amp; Innovators Network (GWIIN) in 1998. "I wanted to make sure other female inventors had a better chance of succeeding than I did," she explains. As well as the award, GWIIN runs workshops, working with government departments, independent and educational organisations, industry experts and mentors to help women bring their ideas and innovations to market.The scarcity of female inventors concerns the British government enough for it to issue  a strategy list to the UK Intellectual Property  Office that includes the instruction to  "investigate why such a small proportion of inventors are women and ... to devise and implement a campaign to help boost IP awareness." Although some women inventors are inevitably hidden within the teams they work in, in Britain only 2.5% of patent applications are made by women (in the US the figure is 6-10%).As inspiration, one could do worse than look to some of the great female inventors of the past. Perhaps the earliest known is Hypatia of Alexandria, who in around 400AD - a year before Archimedes' eureka moment - invented the hydrometer, which calculates the relative density of liquids and is still in use today.Ada Lovelace, daughter of the poet Byron and his first wife, Isabella Milbanke, was similarly mathematically gifted. Milbanke, known as Princess of the Parallelograms for her exceptional mathematical and logistical abilities, tutored Ada rigorously in science and mathematics, and Ada went on to collaborate with Charles Babbage, the inventor of the calculating machine. Her theories of indexing and looping form the basis of modern computing and Ada is now widely acknowledged as one of the world's first computer programmers.Until the 19th century, a woman's property - including intellectual property - automatically became her husband's on marriage, with the result that many female inventions have never been acknowledged. In 1715 American colonist Sybilla Masters was recognised by the British government and the king as the inventor of a new means of "cleaning and cutting the Indian corn growing in several colonies in America". Yet it was her husband, Thomas, who was awarded the patent by the crown.A famous wartime innovation was, unlikely as it seems, the invention of screen goddess Hedy Lamarr. Before the second world war, Lamarr had been married to an Austrian arms manufacturer with an interest in radio-control systems. Having fled to Hollywood to escape both her marriage and fascism, Lamarr met George Antheil, an avant garde composer.  Together, they developed a design for radio-controlled torpedoes, hiding the radio signal from the enemy by causing it to "hop" through 88 random frequencies. Frequency hopping is still used, in devices such as mobile phones and Wi-Fi.Yet until very recently, both government and potential investors regarded female  inventors as high-risk. "Ten years ago," says Olabisi, "when we started talking to people about women and their innovations, we weren't exactly greeted with open arms. "GWIIN was also criticised because the majority of our inventions were mother-and-child oriented, such as non-spill cups or talking  potties. But women tend to think about quality of life a lot, which, in turn, means that a huge number of their inventions are sparked by the desire to improve people's lives. We didn't apologise for those domesticated inventions, but we certainly took the criticisms on board."GWIIN realised that, although many British female inventors were working on their ideas in their kitchens or sheds, more often than not they were buried within larger companies. It sent out the message that if a woman was playing a significant role within a team, GWIIN wanted to highlight her achievements.As a result, the type and quality of female invention coming to public view has expanded. In 2005, Deborah Leary won a GWIIN award for her forensic anti-contamination stepping plates, which allow police to walk around a crime scene without making contact with the ground. Other winning products include a  libido stimulation patch for women, a non-toxic eco-friendly paint stripper, now stocked in DIY stores, and, last year's winner, a digital security mechanism to protect the public from hackers and identity thieves, invented by Dr Maire McLoone.For independent inventors, the light bulb moment must be followed by the long hard slog of production and marketing. "Every inventor knows that the road to success is bumpy," says Olabisi. "They have to convince people that their inventions work and write business plans. But many inventors are not remotely business-minded. With us they can network with manufacturers, investors and the media to help get the inventions out in  the market."Competitions help, too, as Cummins has discovered. From a young age, she learned to cope with pressure, to defend her product and her ethics, and to articulate what she thought she might be capable of. In one competition, the judges asked her if she could change the world. "No," she said. "I don't think I could. But I might be able to in a team."So has she got any advice for aspiring  inventors? "There are many opportunities out there for women interested in technology, engineering and inventing. I always thought being female would be a bit of a problem, but it turns out that it's precisely because I'm girl designing these products that I'm getting more recognition for it. So being a young  female inventor is definitely in your favour".&middot;For more information on the British Female Inventor of  the Year award, go togwiin.comor call 0207-749 4834. Nominations close on February 8.&#183;This article was amended on Thursday February 14 2008. Hypatia of Alexandria lived around 400AD, not BC as we said in the article above. This has been corrected.
January 31, 2008Board of DirectorsYahoo! Inc.701 First AvenueSunnyvale, CA 94089Attention: Roy Bostock, ChairmanAttention: Jerry Yang, Chief Executive OfficerDear Members of the Board:I am writing on behalf of the Board of Directors of Microsoft to make a proposal for a business combination of Microsoft and Yahoo!. Under our proposal, Microsoft would acquire all of the outstanding shares of Yahoo! common stock for per share consideration of $31 based on Microsoft's closing share price on January 31, 2008, payable in the form of $31 in cash or 0.9509 of a share of Microsoft common stock. Microsoft would provide each Yahoo! shareholder with the ability to choose whether to receive the consideration in cash or Microsoft common stock, subject to pro-ration so that in the aggregate one-half of the Yahoo! common shares will be exchanged for shares of Microsoft common stock and one-half of the Yahoo! common shares will be converted into the right to receive cash. Our proposal is not subject to any financing condition.Our proposal represents a 62% premium above the closing price of Yahoo! common stock of $19.18 on January 31, 2008. The implied premium for the operating assets of the company clearly is considerably greater when adjusted for the minority, non-controlled assets and cash. By whatever financial measure you use - EBITDA, free cash flow, operating cash flow, net income, or analyst target prices - this proposal represents a compelling value realization event for your shareholders.We believe that Microsoft common stock represents a very attractive investment opportunity for Yahoo!'s shareholders. Microsoft has generated revenue growth of 15%, earnings growth of 26%, and a return on equity of 35% on average for the last three years. Microsoft's share price has generated shareholder returns of 8% during the last one year period and 28% during the last three year period, significantly outperforming the S&amp;P 500. It is our view that Microsoft has significant potential upside given the continued solid growth in our core businesses, the recent launch of Windows Vista, and other strategic initiatives.Microsoft's consistent belief has been that the combination of Microsoft and Yahoo! clearly represents the best way to deliver maximum value to our respective shareholders, as well as create a more efficient and competitive company that would provide greater value and service to our customers. In late 2006 and early 2007, we jointly explored a broad range of ways in which our two companies might work together. These discussions were based on a vision that the online businesses of Microsoft and Yahoo! should be aligned in some way to create a more effective competitor in the online marketplace. We discussed a number of alternatives ranging from commercial partnerships to a merger proposal, which you rejected. While a commercial partnership may have made sense at one time, Microsoft believes that the only alternative now is the combination of Microsoft and Yahoo! that we are proposing.In February 2007, I received a letter from your Chairman indicating the view of the Yahoo! Board that "now is not the right time from the perspective of our shareholders to enter into discussions regarding an acquisition transaction." According to that letter, the principal reason for this view was the Yahoo! Board's confidence in the "potential upside" if management successfully executed on a reformulated strategy based on certain operational initiatives, such as Project Panama, and a significant organizational realignment. A year has gone by, and the competitive situation has not improved.While online advertising growth continues, there are significant benefits of scale in advertising platform economics, in capital costs for search index build-out, and in research and development, making this a time of industry consolidation and convergence. Today, the market is increasingly dominated by one player who is consolidating its dominance through acquisition. Together, Microsoft and Yahoo! can offer a credible alternative for consumers, advertisers, and publishers. Synergies of this combination fall into four areas:Scale economics: This combination enables synergies related to scale economics of the advertising platform where today there is only one competitor at scale. This includes synergies across both search and non-search related advertising that will strengthen the value proposition to both advertisers and publishers. Additionally, the combination allows us to consolidate capital spending.Expanded R&amp;D capacity: The combined talent of our engineering resources can be focused on R&amp;D priorities such as a single search index and single advertising platform. Together we can unleash new levels of innovation, delivering enhanced user experiences, breakthroughs in search, and new advertising platform capabilities. Many of these breakthroughs are a function of an engineering scale that today neither of our companies has on its own.Operational efficiencies: Eliminating redundant infrastructure and duplicative operating costs will improve the financial performance of the combined entity.Emerging user experiences: Our combined ability to focus engineering resources that drive innovation in emerging scenarios such as video, mobile services, online commerce, social media, and social platforms is greatly enhanced.We would value the opportunity to further discuss with you how to optimize the integration of our respective businesses to create a leading global technology company with exceptional display and search advertising capabilities. You should also be aware that we intend to offer significant retention packages to your engineers, key leaders and employees across all disciplines.We have dedicated considerable time and resources to an analysis of a potential transaction and are confident that the combination will receive all necessary regulatory approvals. We look forward to discussing this with you, and both our internal legal team and outside counsel are available to meet with your counsel at their earliest convenience.Our proposal is subject to the negotiation of a definitive merger agreement and our having the opportunity to conduct certain limited and confirmatory due diligence. In addition, because a portion of the aggregate merger consideration would consist of Microsoft common stock, we would provide Yahoo! the opportunity to conduct appropriate limited due diligence with respect to Microsoft. We are prepared to deliver a draft merger agreement to you and begin discussions immediately.In light of the significance of this proposal to your shareholders and ours, as well as the potential for selective disclosures, our intention is to publicly release the text of this letter tomorrow morning.Due to the importance of these discussions and the value represented by our proposal, we expect the Yahoo! Board to engage in a full review of our proposal. My leadership team and I would be happy to make ourselves available to meet with you and your Board at your earliest convenience. Depending on the nature of your response, Microsoft reserves the right to pursue all necessary steps to ensure that Yahoo!'s shareholders are provided with the opportunity to realize the value inherent in our proposal.We believe this proposal represents a unique opportunity to create significant value for Yahoo!'s shareholders and employees, and the combined company will be better positioned to provide an enhanced value proposition to users and advertisers. We hope that you and your Board share our enthusiasm, and we look forward to a prompt and favorable reply.Sincerely yours,/s/ Steven A. BallmerSteven A. BallmerChief Executive OfficerMicrosoft Corporation
Former Yahoo chief executive Terry Semel has resigned from the company's board.Semel resigned late yesterday, just ahead ofnews breaking todayof Microsoft's $44.6bn takeover bid for Yahoo.He stepped aside as chief executive in June after six years in the role, and was replaced by one of the Yahoo's original co-founders, Jerry Yang.Semel became non-executive chairman on the company's board but will now be succeeded by advertising veteran Roy Bostock.In a statement issued overnight in the US, Yang said Semel had helped lay a firm foundation for improved financial performance at Yahoo."Terry Semel has been a great partner and true friend, and has played a key role in helping to grow Yahoo's business - and industry-leading audience - over the past seven years," he added."He has also been a tremendously valuable resource in recent months, as our new management team developed and began to execute our strategic growth plans."The resignation will be another blow for the internet company, which has seen its shares fall over concerns about its competitiveness and agility in a market dominated by Google.During his tenure at Yahoo, Semel oversaw the key acquisitions of photosharing site Flickr, the bookmarking tool Del.icio.us and search marketing service Overture, while the company's audience grew to more than 500 million users.Semel joined Yahoo in 2001 from Hollywood studio Warner Bros, where he was co-chairman and co-chief executive.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Table: DigitimesIn arecent column, I passed on some Gartner and IDC numbers on the growth of the worldwide PC market in 2007. Hewlett-Packard came out top, and I commented that "HP boss Mark Hurd has turned out to be a star, increasing worldwide sales by 30% to 50.5m units, on IDC's numbers. In 2006, HP was level with Dell; last year, it was ahead by 10m units."I had the total numbers, which bundle together all types of personal computer except handhelds.Digitimesin Taiwan has used IDC's numbers to construct a different chart that only covers notebook computer sales in various markets: the snapshot above shows half the table.It shows that notebooks now account for almost half HP's annual PC sales, and that it grew shipments by an amazing 58.1%. However, it still didn't manage to grow as fast as Acer, which increased shipments by 60.6% from a lower base.HP also did well in the US market, with unit shipments up by 41% to 7.7m units, which is fractionally more than the market leader, Dell.However, as I pointed out: "The US market is in relative decline. It's becoming more important to be strong in Asia." And on the Digitimes chart, HP increased its shipments of laptops in the region (Asia Pacific w/o Japan) by 98.2% to more than 4 million.OK, it's not a big number now. But if sales double every year, it soon becomes a very big number indeed.
What's your favourite piece of technology?It's a tossup between myiPod Touchand my 2.16 GHziMac, but if I had to go for one it would be the iMac. I've been a Mac addict ever since I started out working on teen mags in the 90s and I've never once wavered. They're technology for people who aren't into technology.How has it improved your life?It just makes everything so much easier. Watching films, listening to music, flicking through photos, making your own home movies  what doesn't it do? It's a simply amazing bit of kit.When was the last time you used it, and what for?At the minute I'm mostly using it to finish off my next novel, The Life and Soul of The Party, and listening to music on iTunes.What additional features would you add if you could?First off I'd get Apple to sort out Safari. I can't believe they let themselves be outdone by Firefox time and time again. Secondly they need to put Spotlight back to how it was before the last upgrade. Thirdly, I'd love to see some of the touchscreen tech from the iPod Touch utilised on an iMac.Do you think the iMac will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Definitely. I've only got to look at the Mac I was using 10 years ago to see just how quickly things have moved on. It didn't even have a modem!What one tip would you give to non-iMac users?Always buy the best spec that you can afford. There's nothing more frustrating than thinking if I'd spent another 100 I could have had the all-singing, all-dancing version.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?Nerd, definitely. When Steve Jobs made his last keynote speech I should have been putting the kids to bed, but instead I was logged onto theEngadgetlive blog and was frantically refreshing the page every second so that I didn't miss a thing.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?When I got my first book deal 10 years ago, l I bought myself the best Mac I could afford. It was ace. You could watch TV on it, edit video, make phone calls and send faxes!Mac or PC?Mac. My mates who have PCs always seem to be having to take them in to get fixed. If my Mac ever stops working, nine times out of 10 I've been able to fix it myself.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?An early demo of Kate Nash's The Nicest Thing (played 54 times).Will robots ever rule the world?I'm in the middle of Season Two ofBattlestar Galacticaand it's pretty bleak, so I'm kind of hoping they won't. That said if they all look like Tricia Helfer I daresay I could live with it for a bit.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I'd like aMacBookabout the size of a hardback but weighing less than a paperback with a 500GB hard drive in a world where there was free Wi-Fi.Mike's latest novel,Wish You Were Here, is out now
Videogames can elicit a range of responses. Puzzlement. Frustration. Victorious exhilaration. Raging anger. But only a few - in my experience - leave us beaming all over the face like children in the midst of a Spongebob Squarepants cartoon marathon, interspersed with Haribou Tangfastics snack breaks. Sure, most games offer at least a couple of moments of cathartic pleasure - but I mean consistent, reliable, warm, comforting bliss.What are yours?Let's avoid the really obvious social games like SingStar and Guitar Hero. Let's talk single player, or at a push, online multiplayer. Having other people in the room with you tends to elevate the jocularity beyond the reach of the game itself.There are tunes everyone goes to when they're feeling down. But are there games?
Microsoft has bid $44.6bn (23bn) for Yahoo, the second-biggest online property behind only Google. The $31-per-share cash-and-stock bid, made after markets closed, is a61%premium to Yahoo's closing stock price.Thestock graph comparison for the past year with Googletells its own story: Yahoo stock down 40%, Google's pretty much steady despite all the turbulence in the markets and disappointing results last night from the dominant search engine.If Microsoft succeeds in the bid (which will almost certainly be referred to competition regulators, since it would give Microsoft a huge share of many online markets), it could propel it into pole position online and ready it for the world that its new software architect, Ray Ozzie, anticipates: one where Microsoft has to deliver services to a population online, not statically on desktops running Windows.Microsoft was reported (in the NY Post) to haveapproached Yahoo last spring, but that was quickly denied; Yahoo said it wasn't interested.Since then Terry Semel has left, co-founder Jerry Yang has taken over, and Yahoo has continued (for the 8th quarter in a row) to disappoint Wall Street with its results while promising that better times lay ahead; Yang suggested that would be in 2009. Meanwhile, it laid plans to cut 1,000 staff.Jack adds: Microsoft has now posted apress releasethat includes "the text of the letter that Microsoft sent to Yahoo!'s Board of Directors" yesterday.
The following clarification was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday February 2 2008Dubai is one of the seven emirates that make up the United Arab Emirates; Dubai is also the name of its capital city. It is not a country, as we suggested in the article below.A flotilla of ships may have been dispatched to reinstate the broken submarine cable that has left the Middle East and India struggling to communicate with the rest of the world, but it took just one vessel to inflict the damage that brought down the internet for millions.According to reports, the internet blackout, which has left 75 million people with only limited access, was caused by a ship that tried to moor off the coast of Egypt in bad weather on Wednesday. Since then phone and internet traffic has been severely reduced across a huge swath of the region, slashed by as much as 70% in countries including India, Egypt and Dubai.While tens of millions have been directly affected, the impact of the blackout has spread far wider, with economies across Asia and the Middle East struggling to cope. Governments have also become directly involved, with the Egyptian communications ministry imploring surfers to stay offline so business traffic can take priority. "People who download music and films are going to affect businesses who have more important things to do," said ministry spokesman Mohammed Taymur.But as backroom staff at businesses across the globe scrambled to reroute their traffic or switch on backup satellite systems, experts said the incident highlighted the fragility of a global communications network we take for granted."People just don't realise that all these things go through undersea cables - that this is the main way these economies are all linked," said Alan Mauldin, the research director of TeleGeography. "Even when you're using wireless internet, it's only really wireless back to your base station: the rest is done over real, physical connections."Despite the clean, hi-tech image of the online world, much of the planet remains totally reliant on real-world connections put in place through massive physical effort. The expensive fibre optic cables are laid at great cost in huge lines around the globe, directing traffic backwards and forwards across continents and streaming millions of conversations simultaneously from one country to another.One expert suggested that this week's accident should be a "wake-up call" to convince governments that keeping such connections secure should be a higher priority. Officials must spend more time and energy making sure that critical communications such as mobile phones and the net are adequately protected - whether from disaster or a terrorist strike, said Mustafa Alani, head of security and terrorism at the Gulf Research Centre in Dubai."This shows how easy it would be to attack," he said. "When it comes to great technology, it's not about building it, it's how to protect it."Although the direct effect of the Mediterranean accident is being felt as far west as Bangladesh, the greatest impact has been in India, which has the world's fifth largest internet population and an economy that is increasingly reliant on hi-tech communications. The Indian stock markets had already closed when reports of the collapse first surfaced on Wednesday, but the impact of a 50% drop in bandwidth was being felt keenly yesterday - particularly by the country's expansive outsourcing industry.American corporations were reporting a number of problems with their Indian-based support services and call centres as the domino effect kicked in, although a spokesman for BT - one of Britain's biggest outsourcers - said the company had so far seen little direct evidence of problems. Countries in east Asia and the Pacific remained unaffected as they pipe most of their internet traffic to Europe through the US, but it could be several weeks before things are back to normal in the affected countries."It will depend on how bad the damage is, but they'll find the sections in question and bring them up onto a ship for repair before sinking them again," said  Mauldin. "It could take a week or possibly two weeks."The fibre optic wires in question - called Flag Europe-Asia and Sea-Me-We 4 - are some of the most vital information pipelines between Europe and the east. The latter, which runs in an uninterrupted line from western Europe to Singapore, had only recently been opened after a mammoth &pound;500m, three-year installation project. Between them, the two lines are responsible for around 75% of all connectivity in the Middle East and south Asia."The problems are really at pinch points where increasingly huge amounts of information are coming through," said Jim Kinsella, chairman of Interoute, Europe's largest fibre optic network provider. He said that improvements are scheduled for submarine cabling, but that plans to send more internet traffic over land connections rather than under the sea had been set back by political wrangling."The whole subsea franchise operation is due to change dramatically in the next 18 months, but the question is how we cope in the meantime. You always have to assume that this kind of thing is going to happen."
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Swedish prosecutors have filed charges of copyright infringement against the world's most notorious piracy website, claiming it is profiting from the trade in illegal downloads.The Pirate Bay, which is based in the southern Swedish city of Malm&ouml;, has become a thorn in the side of the film industry, as one of the internet's most popular destinations for people who want to find and download films and music illegally.The website does not host any content itself, but acts as a search engine of video, audio and other information held on the computers of millions of people worldwide. Although it has suffered temporary shutdowns in the past, the website has remained largely beyond the reach of the law - even going as far as starting its own political party to champion the right to share copyright-protected information. But with encouragement from Hollywood's major studios, who are the main plaintiffs in the case, lawyers yesterday said they would be looking for several hundred thousand pounds' compensation."The operation of the Pirate Bay is financed through advertising revenues. In that way it commercially exploits copyright-protected work and performances," said prosecutor Hakan Roswall.The site's owners have insisted that they do not make any profit from the Pirate Bay, using any money generated from advertising to cover the costs of running the site. This, they said, combined with antipathy towards the US and Hollywood, meant they would continue to avoid prosecution."I don't like the word untouchable, but we feel pretty safe," Peter Sunde, a spokesman for the site, told the Guardian in an interview last year. "The US government is losing popularity every day in Europe, and people don't want to see us give in to them."News of the case was welcomed by representatives of the entertainment industry, who said that there was evidence the site made &pound;1.5m per year."We welcome the filing of these charges," said John Kennedy, chairman and chief executive of international recording industry body IFPI. "The Pirate Bay has managed to make Sweden - normally the most law abiding of EU countries - look like a piracy haven."
