PeopleSoft finally gave in yesterday and accepted a $10.3bn (&#163;5.4bn) takeover proposal from its larger rival Oracle, ending a pursuit that has lasted 18 months and has been marked by bitter personal insults and a series of courtroom battles.The board was persuaded after Oracle lifted its offer to $26.50 a share, topping its previous $24 bid. The deal makes Oracle the second-largest provider of business software after Germany's SAP.The fight for control of PeopleSoft was unusually brutal. Its former chief executive Craig Conway had worked under Oracle's boss, Larry Ellison, and was defiant from the first. He accused Oracle of orchestrating a phoney bid to destabilise PeopleSoft's business and described Mr Ellison as a "sociopath". Mr Ellison in turn accused Mr Conway of mismanaging PeopleSoft.Mr Conway was eventually ousted by his own company after admitting that he had lied about the impact that the Oracle bid was having on PeopleSoft's business. George Battle, a PeopleSoft director, said the takeover had "been a long, emotional struggle".The deal was announced as the companies were set to meet in a Delaware court for a hearing on a suit filed by Oracle seeking to negate a "poison pill" adopted by PeopleSoft.Oracle first bid in June 2003, offering $16 a share, valuing PeopleSoft at $5.1bn.Mr Ellison said the merger was important to Oracle "because we will have more customers, which increases our ability to invest more in applications development and support". The acquisition is by far the largest ever engineered by   Oracle, which has preferred to grow the business organically.Mr Ellison said the company would be able to make "good-sized reductions" in sales and marketing costs following the merger. "We are a stronger competitor," he added.The deal combines Oracle's traditional expertise in databases with PeopleSoft's software designed for functions including payroll and human resources. The acquisition adds $2bn in revenues but it is not yet clear how many of the 12,000 PeopleSoft employees will be kept on.Mr Ellison has cleared significant hurdles in clinching the deal. As well as the opposition from the Oracle board, the justice department sued to stop the bid, claiming that it would reduce competition in the market. The court sided with Oracle.Oracle won approval from Brussels in October and last month convinced 61% of PeopleSoft investors to tender their shares.Mr Ellison had called the $24 a share bid Oracle's "best and final offer", but said he had been convinced to raise the price after PeopleSoft handed over further documents showing the company to be more profitable than he had thought.Mr Battle said: "After careful consideration, we believe this revised offer provides good value for PeopleSoft stockholders."Dave Duffield, the founder of PeopleSoft, who assumed the chief executive role after Mr Conway was ousted, had also threatened to sue Mr Ellison for defamation over information released by Oracle about his share sales.Oracle has posted a 32% increase in profits to $815m for the most recent quarter.
Famed independent developerJeff Minterhasannouncedthat the experimental gameUnity, being developed in conjunction with UK power developer Lionhead, has been cancelled.Although undoubtedly ambitious, and probably OK'd at a time when the industry was at a fiscal high, the game's blend of interactivity, colour and trippy graphics would have provided a unique island of creativity in a miasma of (worthy) sequel releases.While there are other tremendous software titles which shriek unique (Katamara Damacy,WarioWare,Rez,Vib Ribbon), most of them are Japanese. Where's the UK's indie software spirit?
Sony released its latest onslaught onto the games market yesterday, launching the handheld entertainment machine, the PSP, to throngs at computer games emporia across Japan. Greg and I are on the train back from an industry soiree, freebies clutched to our chests, and caught up with the first round of reviews, viaJoystiq.Mmm mmm good.
Sony, the Japanese electronics and entertainment group, has approached arch-rival Toshiba in an attempt to prevent a damaging format war over their next-generation DVDs.Toshiba, which is preparing to launch its own high-definition DVD player as soon as next Christmas, rebuffed the offer to work together, however, setting in train a worldwide battle for consumers.The overtures were made by senior Japanese executives at Sony over the past few weeks. They follow similar, successful talks in 1994, when the industry agreed a standard format for the launch of DVDs.They also came as Toshiba was finalising support from three major movie studios - Warner Bros, Paramount Pictures and Universal for its own technology - called, somewhat confusingly, HD-DVD.The support of such content providers is vital in encouraging consumers to buy the next-generation discs. Sony has signed up its own big guns, with Disney announcing its   decision to adopt Sony's Blu-ray technology last week.Dreamworks, the studio behind animated hits Shrek and Shark's Tale, is also poised to back Blu-ray, joining Sony's own in-house movie studio and MGM.The stakes are high for the electronics and entertainment industries. The video format war that developed 20 years ago, in which Sony's Betamax technology lost out to JVC's VHS to become the industry standard, infuriated consumers and cost the losers millions. Toshiba expects sales of its HD-DVDs to hit &#163;1.5bn by 2010. The new players offer better picture quality, especially on the increasingly popular wide-screen televisions, as well as far greater storage and interactivity. For the industry, they also have the added advantage of preventing piracy.Although most commentary has focused on films, of equal significance is the hugely lucrative games market. PlayStation 3, the new version of Sony's games console due out by early 2006, will come equipped for Blu-ray DVDs. XBox 2, the latest version of Microsoft's rival to PlayStation, will be released some time next year.Although publicly neutral on the new format, the software giant would have to spend more to develop XBox to work with Blu-ray. It is expected to be compatible with Toshiba's system.Few publicly support a format war. Although most movie studios have now backed one format or another, they have not signed exclusive deals, leaving the way open for an agreement.Anti-trust groups in the United States and elsewhere are likely to watch the battle carefully for signs of harm to the consumer. The VHS-Betamax battle harmed consumers, as those who bought   Betamax were later forced to buy new machines once it became clear all new releases would be in VHS format.Few in the industry are immune to the echoes of the older battle. Like Betamax, Sony's Blu-ray is widely considered to be better with greater storage capacity.
Mformahas announced a licensing deal with Marvel to bring the comic book giant's vast universe of characters to mobile phones. As with the recentTHQ Wireless Star Wars deal, content will include screensavers, logos, ring tones and a host of other personalisation extras as well as games. Get all the juicy detailshere.This looks to be the way the mobile entertainment industry is going - away from quickie conversions of old arcade games and toward licensed multimedia packages designed to push mega-brands into our headspace. Almost all new blockbusters are accompanied by a selection of mobile phone goodies, distributed through network providers or via partner offers - like the currentMcDonald's/Incredibles promotionthat sends logos and games to anyone who texts the number on the side of their 'Incredible twisty fries'. TV companies are also getting in on the act with Endemol producing mobile content based around Big Brother and Fear Factor, and new Who Wants To Be a Millionaire and I'm A Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here titles on the way.This really is a no-brainer for media companies looking for some easy publicity. Mobile content is cheap and quick to produce, and can be effortlessly delivered to millions of eager consumers.So why aren't independant films taking advantage? Perhaps more people would have gone to see Nathaniel Kahn's richly provocative My Architect if the distributor had bothered to precede its release with a couple screen logos and a polyphonic ring tone...
Mozilla's open source browser Firefox has passed the 10 million download mark, reportsCNet."The free Web browser from the Mozilla Foundation surpassed 10 million downloads on Saturday as Web surfers continue to move away from Microsoft's market-dominating IE. The milestone highlights growing frustration with the security vulnerabilities that have dogged IE during the past few months. Nearly two dozen holes in the Web browser have been discovered during the fall, ranging in degrees of seriousness.""Firefox has surpassed the 10 million download mark while gaining 5 percentage points in May to 7.4 percent in November, according to OneStat.com. Firefox's percentage gain helped cut into Microsoft's dominance of the Web browser market, cutting its market share to less than 90 percent."Last week I saw the new version of theOperabrowser, which was hugely powerful and versatile --- and deserves to join in with Firefox to give Microsoft a run for its money.With figures like that, it looks like people are ready to challenge the MSopoly on web browsing.
If there's one way to tell if something's become a legitimate purchase, it's the arrival of gift vouchers. They let the uninitiated or the lazy buy presents for other people without fear of getting it all wrong. So, when we wonder whether digital music has finally arrived as the saviour of music fans everywhere...Lo! Vouchers have been delivered unto us..."OD2andmycokemusic.comtoday announced the launch of exclusive pre-pay music download Christmas vouchers, offering the perfect accompaniment to this year's must have accessory - the MP3 player.""With digital music players set to take pole position on many people's Christmas lists, the mycokemusic.com voucher offers the recipient the choice of choosing from over 400,000 tracks to compile their own unique playlist.""Furthermore, so as not to spoil the surprise before the big day, you can specify the day that the voucher is delivered, so if you want the voucher to be credited on Christmas day you can! The vouchers, available in £5.00, £10.00, £20.00 and £40.00, are also able to be printed out and enclosed in a card in traditional fashion."
Areportthis morning highlights the row over the new DVD-format and how it will affect gamers. With Toshiba rejecting Sony's advances to work together it looks like consumers will have to choose from two new DVD formats - Sony'sBlu-rayand Toshiba'sHD-DVD. And the real battle could be fought on the next gen consoles. PlayStation 3will have Blu-raycapabilities but speculation suggests that Xbox 2 will use the HD-DVD format. Bad news for those who want more space under their TV - but will it be bad news for Sony and Microsoft? The hardcore gamer is unlikely to base their buying decision on which DVD format their new console plays, but the mainstream market almost certainly will. Interesting times lie ahead..
Last week's big new media news was, without doubt, the BBC's announcement that they intend to lop off huge chunks of their online services and pack what's left off to Manchester. Being a London media type, I have to admit that my first reaction was one of surprise. I mean, do they even have the internet in Manchester? Or computers? Or electricity for that matter? Apparently they do - something which the city's soon-to-be-even-richer estate agents will be keen to point out to 1,800 displaced BBCers who are due to head north in the next five years.My second reaction was sadness. Why exactly should the BBC have to close down sites just because they "do not provide sufficient public value"? And who judges what's valuable anyway? I've really cut back on my usage of BBC News Online in recent months - Google News tells me everything I need to know and I can always turn on the radio. Likewise, I never visit the - no doubt very useful - local BBC sites or the sports sites or, God forbid, the BBC religion and ethics site. And yet while they have been spared the axe, the corner of the BBC site that I have visited most regularly has had its oxygen cut off without warning. Its name: "Get Writing".If you're not lucky enough to have visited Get Writing (www.bbc.co.uk/getwriting) then I urge you to do so immediately, while you still can. It's essentially a virtual writers' circle and there really is no finer way to spend an hour of your time than by browsing through the work of the would-be writers who have submitted themselves to peer review. Not since the publication of The Best of Victor Lewis-Smith has so much awful writing been brought together in the same place. So awful in fact that a friend of mine likened it to the Vogon Poetry in the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy ("the third worst poetry in the universe"). And yet its awfulness is also   its brilliance. I love the fact that the BBC is wasting my money encouraging people to write rubbish. I absolutely hate soaps and yet I adore the fact that the BBC built a site called Pure Soap that cost a ton of (my) money to maintain and yet offers absolutely nothing that can't be found elsewhere. Likewise their fantasy football site and the lifestyle and parenting sites that (in the wake of the Graf report) are being either axed or cut back - I have no interest in them but I'm absolutely delighted that they exist.The point of the BBC is that it spends my money on things I don't care about - like the Shipping Forecast and letting Ian Wright present the National Lottery. That's what it's for. Likewise, their online raison d'etre should be to pour money into web things that are silly, or unpopular or in competition with a commercial rival, without shame or explanation. Because it's through this diversity that bbc.co. uk has become the most emotionally satisfying site on the web.If you don't know what I mean, just think about the feeling you get when you walk into the wool department of John Lewis. "Just look at all the different wool," you think. "Who could possibly need all of this wool?" And then you go up the escalator to the toy department and you think "look at all these toys. Why do they bother selling toys? You can buy toys at Toys R Us." I defy anyone to walk around John Lewis without feeling pride and surprise that such a place still exists in this otherwise bland world - a grand, well-designed, friendly place full of everything you need, and loads of other stuff that you never, ever will. But it's nice to know it's there. You won't catch them closing down departments just because they don't "provide sufficient public value".And that's exactly the same feeling I get every single time I browse the BBC site. "Just look at all the crap poetry ... who could possibly need all this crap poetry? Oooh, soaps, why do they have a soaps site? You can get soaps anywhere? Oooh ... news." Good on them for trying to be all things to all people - good on them for being the only place on the net where you can get everything you want and a whole load of things you'll never, ever need - all without an advert or a PR-tie-in or a "call to action" in sight. And shame on Philip Graf and Mark Thompson for trying to make them stop. The fact is, I don't care how BBC Online spends its share of my licence fee. As long as they keep producing sites that surprise, inform, amuse and occasionally appal, then I'm more than happy. But who cares what I - or any other licence payer - thinks? Graf has spoken and Get Writing and Pure Soap are no more. The web is an infinitely poorer place for their passing.&#183;Paul Carr is editor-in-chief of the Friday Project (www.thefridayproject.co.uk). His latest book, London by London: the insiders' guide, is out now.
Thank goodness for superheroes. Just when mobile gaming was looking for a boost, in swoops the comic book giant Marvel - home to Spider-Man, the Hulk, Blade, the X-Men and Elektra - in a deal with one of the mobile publishing industry's rising stars, Mforma.Mforma has signed a multimillion dollar, multiterritory contract with Marvel that will mean its 5,000 comic-book characters will be available for the creation of new mobile games, a majority of which will be developed in the UK. Some of the first Mforma/Marvel offerings will not only involve some of Marvel's best-known characters, but they will launch on the back of mega movies.Blade: Trinity - the third film in this superhero series, which stars Wesley Snipes - is in the cinemas from this week and the Mforma role-playing game will launch on all the major UK mobile phones at the same time.This is followed in January 2005 by the movie/mobile game launch of Elektra and in July by a Fantastic Four film and related game. Most of the mobile Marvel games will be co-developed by Mforma with Activision, a large software publisher that has developed games based on Marvel characters for the PC and console games markets."This is an industry-breaking deal because it is multititle, multiterritory and multiyear," says John Brimacombe, president and chief operating officer of Mforma. "And it's also important because it is not just games. Under this deal we can develop screensavers, images, animations, mobile comics and really anything to bring the Marvel franchise to mobile audiences."Mobile gaming is just a small part of the $18bn (&#163;7.9bn) PC and console games business, but it is already worth nearly $2bn worldwide and is set for big growth in 2005, according to the Ovum consultancy.Strategy Analytics, in Cambridge, estimates that the business will grow to $8bn in revenues by 2009 on the back of increasingly sophisticated mobile phones and better-designed content. In the UK mobile gaming revenues will   nearly double to $63m this year compared with 2003; UK revenues are estimated to reach $190m by 2009.The UK is also becoming one of the prime development hubs for mobile games because of a strong base of console and PC games developers. The UK is the biggest market for console games in Europe and mobile content already commands higher prices than any other European market, says Nitesh Patel, a games analyst at Strategy Analytics. "The UK is quite a sophisticated consumer mobile market. Ring tones have been very big here and games are likely to be similar but with higher prices, especially for branded games," says Patel.Mforma is based in Seattle but has recently added to its UK production base with the purchase of Manchester games developer Blue Beck, while rival UK-based mobile games publisher/developer Digital Bridges raised $18m in additional funding last month from investors, including Apax Partners, to help fund its expansion into the US and Asia. Digital Bridges also recently hired the ex-MD of Nintendo Europe David Gossen as its chief operating officer as well as another ex-senior executive of Nintendo Europe, Shigeru Ota, to lead its efforts in the Japanese market."What you are seeing emerging is consolidation within the mobile games industry," says Paul Maglione, senior vice president of publishing and marketing at Digital Bridges. "We are going from dozens and dozens of developers a few years ago to maybe four or five super publishers who are becoming the privileged content part ners for the mobile operators."Mforma's deal with Marvel has helped push the company into this developing super league. It is hoping that the success of Marvel PC and console games, which have sold 14.5m units in the past two years globally, will translate to a similar success in the mobile world.Other emerging mobile gaming powerhouses include Jamdat and THQ of the US, Game Loft of France, which is owned by console game developer Ubisoft, and US-based Sorrent Inc, which earlier this month bought London-based games publisher Macrospace. Macrospace's Who Wants to be a Millionaire? mobile game, developed for owner Celador, will be available on UK mobiles this month.The sheer number of titles launching in the next 12 months is immense, driven in large part by a rapidly growing base of mobile phones that are Java-software enabled, which means they can run more sophisticated mobile games such as the Tiger Woods golfing games from PC and console games publisher Electronic Arts (EA). Zelos, a consultancy in the US, estimates that there will be 24m Java-enabled handsets in the UK by the end of 2004, double the number at the end of 2003. Similar growth trajectories are happening in markets around the world.The latest version of the EA golfing game Tiger Woods 2005 is being released this week in the UK and was developed by Digital Bridges in a deal with EA. "The premise of the mobile games market was always to be for the mass market. But new games developed for the new handsets, like Tiger Woods, have a lot of functionality and cool stuff like 3D graphics and dual-screen modes and connectivity, so you can download extra stuff," says Digital Bridges' Paul Maglione.Mobile gaming is seen by mobile phone companies such as Vodafone and MMO2 as a key driver to help grow new revenues. Gaming is already the second most-important non-voice service behind music - specifically ringtones - for mobile operators, but more and better games are needed. "I don't think we are complaining that there aren't enough Java games out there but there is work to be done on the   quality of the games and also from our side on the marketing," said Graeme Ferguson, Vodafone's director of global content development. "We want to work with publishers that have scale so they can spend the right kind of money on development."According to mobile operators in the UK there have been some "shocking abuses" of premium-content brands by mobile games developers. Three games singled out by several operator sources include the Harry Potter game developed off the back of the Warner Bros movie, as well as the games developed for Shrek 2 and Finding Nemo, from Disney. The problem, according to mobile operators who did not want to be named, is that not enough money or attention was put into the development of these games so they were impossible or uninteresting to play.It was in order to avoid such a bad result that Marvel decided to work nearly exclusively with Mforma and Activision on developing its stable of 5,000 characters for mobile devices. "We felt that the best way for Marvel to work in this emerging wireless world   would be through one provider who would put together the resources to create a holistic programme for our properties," says Bruno Maglione, president of Marvel International based in London (no relation to Paul Maglione of Digital Bridges).The cost to develop a mobile game is significantly less than the $10-15m it costs to develop and market a PC or console game. A mobile game can cost as little as $300,000 to develop, but the trick is having the skills to make it work across the hundreds of different phone platforms. "The mobile games business is cheaper in terms of development but it is more about getting it distributed to all the different carriers," says Maglione of Marvel. "This is the year when wireless goes from theory and potential to reality because there are now a number of games producing serious download figures and significant revenues."One market that Marvel has held back from Mforma is Japan, because it is the "most evolved mobile market" and Maglione says he is looking for a local publisher to champion Marvel there.The Japanese market may be excluded from Mforma's plans for comic book/mobile gaming world domination - but they are certainly well set for battle to become a key mobile publisher with the the likes of the Hulk and Spider-Man on their side.Top 10 gamesELSPA Chart for October 2004Top 10 mobile game downloads (developer)1Tetris (Ifone)23D Pool (Digital Bridges)3PacMan (Namco)4Swat Sniper (Elkware)5Mafia Wars (Sumea)6Alpha Wing (Macrospace)7Racing Fever 2 (Sumea)8EA Sports Tiger Woods PGA Tour Golf 2004 (Digital Bridges)9Bomberman (Living Mobile)10EA Sports Fifa Football 2004 (Digital Bridges)&#183;Source: 3, MMO2, T-Mobile, Orange and Vodafone
There's a fantastic quirk-piece on the news siteabc13about the controversial PlayStation 2 game GTA: San Andreas. AsJoystiqcomment, it's nice to have some good news about this game.In short, some foolhardy burglars were scared off by the in-game audio when they attempted a break-in at a Santa Fe, USA residence."Stop! This is the police!". Now that's what I call surround sound.
George W Bush's garbled syntax, the weirdness of reality TV and lads' fantasies about gorgeous catfighting women - this is how posterity may come to judge how we live now. The picture of 2004 emerges not from the traditional social documents of diaries, letters or newspapers but the email inbox.Many a bored office worker has welcomed a jokey email doing the rounds, often in response to a news or sports event. They often forward it to their friends, who forward it to their friends, instantly spreading it around the world. Such messages have become known as 'viral emails' - not to be confused with computer viruses.These still images, movies or text documents are preserved by the online archive Bore Me. The British-based website has now published its top 10 most downloaded virals of 2004.Top of the chart, downloaded from the site more than 900,000 times, is a classic George W Bushism from the presidential election campaign, a TV clip in which the planet's most powerful man invents the word 'sovereign-inities'. Bush has a total of 55 entries on the site.Second is a piece of Japanese reality TV deemed so risque that it is   stored on Bore Me Rigid, the website's adult section, which also includes such delights as a video of ET 'being pleasured'.Third comes a video of a leggy blonde fighting a leggy brunette in increasing states of undress in a TV advert for Miller Lite - reflecting the efficiency of the viral email as a marketing tool.Bore Me also monitored those who accesswww.boreme.com. The organisation where staff have the most spare surfing time was the Department of Health, followed by the US Army's aviation and missile command unit.
"Google Suggestquietly debuted this week on the company's Labs site, which showcases Google features that 'aren't quite ready for prime time,' according to a message on the site. When someone starts typing a request into the search box, a drop-down menu appears with suggestions as to what that person could be looking for." reports CNet."For instance, typing in 'Mi' generates a list starting with 'Microsoft' and continuing with 'miniclip,' 'Michael Moore' and 'miserable failure,' among other suggestions."Comment:It only works in English, and uses JavaScript and cookies. See theFAQfor more details.As Gary Price points out, AOL'sPinpoint Shoppingservice has a similar feature, and it's interesting to compare the implementations.
"Bram Cohen didn't set out to upset Hollywood movie studios. But his innovative online file-sharing software, BitTorrent, has grown into a piracy problem the film industry is struggling to handle. As its name suggests, the software lets computer users share large chunks of data. But unlike other popular file-sharing programs, the more people swap data on BitTorrent, the quicker it flows — and that includes such large files as feature films and computer games," reportsAP."The program now accounts for as much as half of all online file-sharing activity, says Andrew Parker, chief technology officer of Britain-based CacheLogic, which monitors such traffic."
Better late than never dept: BT has just published a 31-page report on theDigital Divide. Looks interesting, but unfortunately it's in PDF form. The blurbheresays:Launching today [Tuesday] at the BT Tower in London, the report - conducted by The Future Foundation - predicts that while the number of digitally excluded people will fall from 27 million to 23 million by 2025, the people excluded risk losing access to fundamental services like medical information and education.Currently one in two adults (51 per cent) are disadvantaged by not being online and the report warns that the gap between the "have nets" and "have nots" will widen if the government, commercial organisations and designers of new technology fail to engage people who have so far rejected the digital age.The BBC has a reporthere, oir seeRDDA News.Comment:I'm frankly amazed that anybody thinks that 40% of the UK's population will still be without internet access at home in 2025, given that 49% have it already.The UK Government figures fromhereshow home internet access rising from 9% (Oct-Dec 98) to 34% (2000) to 49% (2003), so growth is slowing, but perhaps not that dramatically. In any case, I'd expect at least 80% of home users to have Internet access before 2025 -- via their mobile phones.
New measures to warn parents about the dangers of buying violent video and computer games for their children were unveiled yesterday, following fears that people were unwittingly buying unsuitable products for youngsters.A summit was held between industry leaders, consumer groups and the British Board of Film Classification at which improvements to labelling were discussed, as well as how to tighten up the law.Games sales are expected to reach a record 10m this month, with about one in 12 aimed at over-18-year-olds.The government is taking action after concerns that children were finding it easy to buy and play games intended for adults. Mystery shoppers will be used to check on stores following similar schemes aimed at tackling retailers who sell alcohol and cigarettes to underage children.The trade and industry secretary, Patricia Hewitt, said the UK had a vibrant games industry which would be selling millions of games in the run-up to Christmas. "But adults should be treated as adults and children as children. It is important that retailers respect the classifications and do not sell games with high levels of violence to minors. Equally, parents need to know what they might be buying for their children."Video games are different to films or videos and not all parents have grown up playing games in the way our children do. We need to look carefully at how we improve content warnings and strengthen sales enforcement."The culture secretary, Tessa Jowell, added: "You would not let your child watch the Texas Chainsaw Massacre or go to a strip club so you should not let them play an 18-rated game."Anyone convicted of selling an adult game to a child faces a fine of up to &#163;5,000 or a prison term of up to six months, or both.Campaigners have been calling for a complete ban on excessively violent games because of the danger of them being seen by children.The DTI said last night that the industry had agreed it needed to make sure classifications for adult games were clearly understood."The industry will consider how to make sure parents know what games their children should and should not play," said an official. "It was a very positive meeting and we welcome the positive attitude the industry has shown."
Jak 3PS2Originally one of Sony's many (and wholly bootless) answers to Mario in the pursuit of a half-decent platform game for its console, Jak and Daxter's outings have become progressively less about jumping around on ledges and more about exploring the large cartoon cityscapes in which our heroes perennially find themselves. Jak 3 moves even further in this direction, with an emphasis on buggy racing and mini-games that almost entirely excludes any precision jumping exploits. New skills like the ability to become Light Jak are offset by the need to revisit very large chunks of Haven City rather than have anywhere new to see, which may lead to acute feelings of having been short-changed - a sense that will only be reinforced by the mere 10 hours this takes to complete. Not bad, but not the Christmas No 1.&#183;Sony £40EyeToy: Play 2PS2If you don't normally think of yourself as a gamer, the chances are you've either never tried it or, when you did, trying to get the joypad to control whatever was happening onscreen just didn't feel quite right. The genius of EyeToy, Sony's miniature USB camera that sits on top of your TV, is that it obviates the need for a controller, leaving even complete freshmen on a level pitch with those who possess proudly calloused thumbs. Alongside a promising menagerie of experimental games, Play 2 also has Air Guitar, where you strum your axe without holding it; Table Tennis, which plays a surprisingly convincing game of ping pong; and Kung 2, which sees the return of the first game's ninja invasion. Way better as a party game.&#183;£25, £40 incl cameraMen Of ValorPC, XBOXThe recent welter of games based on the Vietnam war continues with Men Of Valor, a first person shooter that once again puts you in the steamy undergrowth of south Vietnam with a view to ridding it of some of the locals through tense bouts of creeping through the jungle followed by firefights against half-seen opponents. Although well-meaning, the execution isn't a patch on the concept. They're-right-behind-you surround sound Vietnamese voices are outlandishly overdone, and overbearing scripting of your actions makes playing a lot less fun and a lot more like you're actually following the orders of an unseeing military hierarchy than they ought to for something you pay to do in your spare time.&#183;Vivendi, £40
In these days of clever online viral marketing, it is often hard to distinguish between who is real and who is a figment of some advertising executive's imagination - like Super Greg (geocities.com/goodgawd2001), a part Borat/part Freddie Mercury creation.But these three bizarre chaps from the world of music appear to be real. McRorie Tait (mcrorie.ca), dressed in a kilt and sweatband, performs 1980s rock with the aid of sensors attached to his stomach and two large keyboards strapped to his waist. You'll be amazed.Even more disturbing is The Asian Prince (geocities.com/asianprince_213/), a ladies' man who is using the internet to find his "princess". Finally,www.greenelvis.comis the home of an environmentally friendly Elvis impersonator hawking his debut album, 50,000,000 Recycling Bins Can't Be Wrong.
It's been a big week, with the game of the year poll winners announced. Just in case you missed anything, here is the full list of what we have posted.SundayGame rating controversyMondayGame mascots - the end?Next-gen graphicsUnsung BritsTuesdayIn-game advertising growthPoll results - sneaky peakWednesdayChinese ban gameThursdayGame of 2004 results!Online reviews this weekFridayTHQ Star Wars dealMobile multiplayerLadies love DS
It's not justAleksthen - apparently women love the Nintendo DS.Bloomberg reportsthat Nintendo has raised its DS shipment forecast by 40% for this year due to demand from US and female gamers in Japan. Apparently female membership ofClub Nintendo, part of the website marketing, has risen by 7 percent since the launch in Japan on Dec 2. Will we see similar female participation when DS launches in Europe? Chances are it will appeal to women more than Sony's more techy looking PSP, but will Nintendo's mix of cute and cult appeal here as much as it did in Japan?
Mobile games publisherOverloaded, owned by media giantEndemol, is setting up a real-time multiplayer gaming service, compatible with both 2.5G and 3G networks. Due for launch in January, the service will allow gamers throughout Europe to challenge each other on a variety of Overloaded titles, many of which are based around Endemol's reality TV licenses, namely Big Brother and Fear Factor. So we can probably expect games where you're locked in a conference call for ten weeks with nine other people. Hmmm.The service employs a multiplayer distribution and billing infrastructure developed byTerraplay Systems, a veteran provider of dev tools across a range of platforms. It's just one player, however, in the growing mobile multiplayer infrastructure market, facing off against similar services offered byKayakandIn-Fusio. We're also seeing developers produce their own simple multiplayer systems - for example,Macrospacewith its two-player versions of Connect Four and Reversi now available on Vodafone Live.Providing seamless over-the-air multiplayer gaming via mobile phone is clearly a complex business, with various handsets and networks involved, not to mention the difficulty of sharing profits between developer, infrastructure provider and carrier. But as gamers, we don't care. We just want it to work. And although progress is still pretty slow, we seem to be heading toward an era where selecting a game of chess, or hangman, or Tetris and then playing it against a stranger in Portugal is a simple, intuitive process. Next stop, Everquest.
"The average American teenager seldom knows or cares what the US Supreme Court is up to," reports today'sFinancial Times, "But that could all change today when the justices meet to consider whether to step into the legal battle over music sharing on the internet.""The justices will meet in private conference to decide whether to hear one of the most important intellectual property cases of the digital era: the Grokster case.""It is rare for the Supreme Court to venture into complex intellectual property disputes, especially in the still largely untamed area of internet law."Looks like it might be time to start the taming...
On monday, mobile games publisher THQ Wireless announced that it had entered into a 'multi-year' agreement with Lucasfilm to develop, 'a comprehensive offering of Star Wars branded content for mobile phones'. As you'd imagine this will include games, wallpapers, screensavers, logos, ring tones and possibly video clips, covering all six movies. As yet, there are no specific details about the proposed content but Tim Walsh, president of THQ Wireless, states in the press release, "Our primary focus is to create a quality Star Wars experience for a fan base that is unlike any other".I always enjoy the mandatory but often hopelessly inappropriate use of the word 'experience' in relation to branded products. I mean, will having a little photo of Lando Calrissian on your phone screen really replicate the feeling of watching a Star Wars movie? Or perhaps THQ Wireless has a few more ambitious and innovative projects in mind? I'd like to see them providing one of the following...Yoda-enhanced voicemailExcitingly re-edits incoming voicemail messages to replicate the distinctive conversational style of the master Jedi! Experience such authentic messages as: "Important meeting tomorrow morning there is" and "A prat in the pub last night you were"...Jedi call screeningLet Luke Skywalker or Darth Vader advise you on callers before you make the mistake of answering your phone. "The likelihood of dull conversation about X Factor is strong in this one..."Star Wars personality testing and blind dating serviceInput a series of personal details and you'll be sent a text message revealing the Star Wars character you most closely resemble in terms of both social status and physical allure, plus a list of possible dates! "Oh no, I'm a dim-witted Gamorrean pig guard from Return of the Jedi!" "well, apparently I'm having cocktails tomorrow night with Porkins the portly Rebel pilot from A New Hope!"Alternatively, I'll settle for a mobile version of Star Wars Galaxies.
""Yahoo Inc said on Thursday it will begin testing a free desktop search service in early January, following rivals hoping to extend the reach of wildly profitable search-related advertising," reportsReuters."Yahoo's product will use licensed technology from Pasadena, California-based X1 Technologies Inc. to help users search e-mail and a variety of files -- from photos and music to PDF-format documents -- on their hard drives."Comment:As the article notes, desktop search products are expected shortly from Ask Jeeves and Microsoft, among others.The Seattle Times,The Washington Postand other papers have similar stories.
This week's New Scientist carries a story about a newsmartphone that can sniff our dirty bombs:"A smart phone that can detect radiation may soon be helping the police to find the raw materials for radioactive 'dirty bombs' before they are deployed. The phones will glean data as the officers carrying them go about their daily business, and the information will be used to draw up maps of radiation that will expose illicit stores of nuclear material.""The detector is the brainchild of engineers at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) in California, US, who developed it in response to the rise in illicit trafficking of radioactive materials."I've seen some great detection technology recently that I'll hopefully get a chance to write about very soon... it looks like this sort of method of searching for dangerous materials is the way forward.
The growing popularity of text messaging among older sections of the population is continuing to fuel a dramatic growth in the number sent to a record 25 billion per year.Figures released today show that most phone users continue to prefer the brevity of a humble black and white text message of up to 180 characters, despite mobile operators trying to wean customers on to more expensive forms of communication such as picture and video messaging,The  figures from the Mobile Data Association predict that the number of text messages sent during 2004 will hit 25 billion, up from 20.5 billion last year and 16.8bn in 2002.What began over a decade ago as an afterthought by mobile phone engineers to enable them to communicate with one another has grown into a new communications medium with its own attendant language.Faced with the challenge of squeezing their messages into a couple of sentences, text fanatics have developed a range of abbreviations and shortcuts. "2b/-2b=?", for example, is a shortened version of the classic Shakespeare line "To be or not to be, that is the question".Since 2001, when the medium was already established as a popular means of communication - particularly among younger phone users - the total number of messages sent has continued to grow by an average of 22% per year.The MDA has predicted that the number of messages sent next year will grow by a similar factor, topping 30 billion for the first time.Many observers expected the growth of text messaging to tail off as the number of phones in circulation hits saturation point.But the increasing number of older phone users catching on to text messaging as a quick and cheap means of communication has seen the figure continue to rise.Sending texts is also becoming cheaper, with many operators bundling in a number of free texts to their monthly price plans.The networks are determined to come up with new ways of encouraging customers to use text messaging, such as games, chat and flirting, as well as more advanced forms of the technology such as picture messaging, in order to increase the revenue from each subscriber.The biggest number of texts sent in a single 24 hour period was on New Year's Day this year, when 111 million messages were sent exchanging greetings. That record is expected to be beaten this Christmas.Other peak days for text traffic are on the days that GCSE and A-level results are announced and following big sporting events. One of the highest recorded totals for last year was after England won the Rugby World Cup.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The online retailer Amazon is moving into the DVD rental market to take on Screenselect and Blockbuster.Screenselect has merged recently with its rival Video Island and provides their rental platform to Tesco, Dixons, easyCinema and ITV's Movieclub Online.All online rental services work on the same principle: customers pay a monthly fee to rent DVDs, which are then posted to them. There is no return date and no late fees but the old ones have to be returned to get new DVDs.Amazon does not expect any problems with this method. Its UK managing director, Robin Terrell, said: "This has been well tried and tested."The company charges &#163;7.99 to rent up to two DVDs at a time, with up to four rentals a month, or &#163;9.99 for three DVDs and six films a month.At Screenselect, the monthly charge is &#163;14.99 for three DVDs but there is no limit on the number of DVDs a month.To meet the new competition, Tesco this week launched a new offer of &#163;7.97. Only one DVD can be kept at home but this can be exchanged for new films as often as one likes. The Video Island platform provides users such as Tesco with a choice of 27,000 DVDs.Video Island's chief executive, Saul Klein, welcomes the competition. "We are very pleased that Amazon has joined the market. This is a validation for our business concept," he said.Mr Klein does not fear a price war as he expects the market to grow substantially next year. "There is space for multiple packages and multiple brands," he said. In the US, fierce competition between Netflix, Blockbuster and Wal-Mart has led to falling prices.The pioneer of online DVD rentals is the US-based Netflix, which recently dropped its plans to enter the British market this year. Netflix has 2.6   million customers in the US, earning revenue of $141m (&#163;73m) in the third quarter.Amazon, like its competitors, delivers the DVDs free of charge by first-class post, with pre-paid envelopes for returns provided. It offers a choice of "tens of thousands" of titles.Mr Terrell added: "We can offer an integrated experience." Amazon will use its personalisation tools to suggest new films that the customer might like, based on former purchases and rentals.
China has banned the British computer game Football Manager 2005, saying it violated Chinese law by referring to Taiwan, Hong Kong, and other regions claimed by Beijing as separate countries.Though the game is not officially sold in China, government departments have been ordered to search for pirated copies at software markets and newsstands and seize any found, according to the culture ministry.Vendors could face fines of up to &#163;2,000. Internet service providers that fail to prevent subscribers from downloading the game can be fined up to &#163;1,000 and lose their licences.The ban underlines China's extreme sensitivity over any perceived slight to its national prestige at a time when its global economic and political clout is growing.China claims the independent country of Taiwan, and recovered Hong Kong from Britain in 1997.The culture ministry said the game also contained references to Tibet, which Chinese troops occupied in 1951, and Macau, a former Portuguese colony handed back to China in 1999.Foreign companies making everything from mobile phones to packaged food have run into similar trouble for supposedly violating Chinese sensitivities.China this week banned a Nike television commercial showing US basketball star LeBron James, the reigning NBA rookie of the year, in a mock videogame setting in which he battles and defeats a kung fu master, two women in traditional Chinese attire and a pair of dragons.Marc Duffy, a spokesman for the game's developer, Sports Interactive, said the company was working on a Chinese version for official release in China that would meet local requirements."We will follow the correct submission and approval process within China and look forward to feedback from the Chinese authorities on any modifications that may be required," he said.
After days of speculation, IBM announced on Tuesday that it is to sell its personal computer hardware arm to Lenovo, China's leading computer manufacturer, in a deal worth $1.75bn (&#163;900m). The US company is to concentrate on its IT services and software business.This was a historic change, agreed the commentators. No brand is more associated with computing than IBM, which pioneered the mass-market PC more than 20 years ago. "Selling off its PC and laptop arm is a little like Unilever pulling out of soap powders," said Alex Brummer in theDaily Mail. But it was a shrewd move, as IBM's "grip on the market" had ended years ago when Dell and Hewlett-Packard overtook it. "Even when the IBM and Lenovo market penetration is added together it will be a distant third with 7.7% share," added Brummer.The deal may be the biggest "Sino-foreign takeover yet", said theDaily Telegraph's Neil Collins, but the reason for the low price was IBM's "filamentary margins in an utterly changed PC world". And "fighting a losing battle with Dell was no sensible use of IBM's time and resources," added the Lex column of theFinancial Times.But theSouth China Morning Postwas unsure the deal made sense for Lenovo. The Hong Kong paper wondered if Lenovo could turn around a business that even IBM was unable to make money from. IBM's "losses at the division rose to $258m &#91;&#163;135m&#93; last year", it said. "In the same year Lenovo made only $1bn &#91;&#163;0.5bn&#93;. Add those together and you would seem to have a badly bleeding animal."So why did Lenovo pursue the deal? Patience Wheatcroft, in theTimes, explained it would be allowed to use the IBM name on its machines over the next five years. "IBM is the world's third-most-valuable brand name," she said. "Acquiring it for use on all personal computers, if only for five years, may matter more to Lenovo than quadrupling its global sales."After that, added Collins in the Telegraph, the IBM brand is "likely to disappear from the desktop for good, and Lenovo must take a Great Leap Forward to make this deal work".TheIndependent's Jeremy Warner argued that the sale was part of IBM's move away from the mistakes of the past, particularly its failure "to see the IT revolution coming and fast", because of its "arrogance" in trying to see off the competition authorities in the US and Europe. "Just as the decline of IBM is a textbook study," he said, "so too was the eventual turnaround achieved under Lou Gerstner, eloquently chronicled in his book, Who Says Elephants Can't Dance."IBM can dance again because it realised that trying to dominate all aspects of the computer industry no longer worked. For Warner, "the disposal of the PC business takes IBM full circle back to its roots as a business solutions company."
A mixed bag ofreviews in Onlinethis week. The biggie was Call of Duty: Finest Hour, the console edition of theWW2 classic series. Steve Boxer was wowed enough to award four stars. "Technically, Finest Hour is the most impressive second world war console game", he said. This is slightly less of a complement when you consider its competitors include the shockingMedal of Honor: Rising Sun, but worthy praise all the same. On a totally different tack isThe Moment of Silence, an adventure game for PC. This much-maligned genre still has something to offer those gamers who fancy using their brain rather than reflexes. "Gaming should be about adventures, and where would adventure games be without a good story?" asks Rhianna Pratchett in her three-star review. Last up is my review ofKillzone, the much-hyped, but ultimately disappointing first-person shooter for PS2. I had high hopes for this, but was badly let down by the whole experience. Maybe I was a little harsh giving it only one star, but two would be the max here. Anyone else disappointed by Killzone?
It's Thursday, so it must be time for another edition ofGuardian Online, ("Probably the best technology supplement in the Guardian").This week, with all the high street hoo-hah in the run-up to Christmas, we lead with a look at therise of smart shoppers, those consumers who are using the web to their advantage.We're also continuing our series of best buys for Christmas with a look atdigital music players.Elsewhere, technology veteran Ian Mackintosh explainswhy 3G is a cop-out; Ashley Norris guides you through thelatest gadgets; Jack Schofield takes a peek at Microsoft'snew blogging tools; Andrew Losowsky reveals what'sso great about Sony's EyeToy; and MIT brainiac Sherry Turkle tells us why we'regetting emotionally involved with our computers.And how could we forget the results of our poll to find thebest games of 2004? Thousands of people voted in their droves, and one lucky so-and-so came out of it all with a cracking Alienware PC. You can go and discuss the list over atGamesblog.And, as always, there's much, much more. Justclick hereto see the full contents.
Following up today's important Times story (below), Kay Clark of Tru-PR has sent out a mailshot promoting thePort Lap Desk, which also has a handy protrusion so you can use your notebook with a real mouse.The email doesn't say where to buy one so I Googled for a source.
Engineers are scouring eBay in search of vital components to keep signals and information boards working on the London underground, it emerged yesterday.Tube Lines, the consortium responsible for maintenance of three tube lines, admitted it turns to the virtual market place to search for parts no longer in production.The consortium defended its policy, claiming it was being forced to "think laterally" to source components needed to keep the creaking system operating.But union leaders expressed dismay, pointing out that the private company, which has a 30-year lease on the running of the tube's infrastructure under one of the government's controversial public-private partnership schemes, was making huge profits while maintaining the tube with the help of cut-price items.Jim Haynes, the director of projects at Tube Lines, said: "If something goes wrong with the signalling system, some of it is so old you have to go on eBay to look for materials that are out of stock."Spokeswoman Laura Wallace added: "We use all the resources available to us to source our equipment. Much of the system is very old and difficult to get hold of so we surf the internet and use eBay."Ms Wallace said old computers and parts had been found on eBay to keep dot matrix information boards on station platforms going.She said parts for signals, some of which are more than 50 years old, were very difficult to find, adding: "Hopefully people will realise that we are thinking laterally."She said the fact that Tube Lines, which made profits of more than &#163;100,000 a day last financial year, needed to turn to eBay showed how important it was to plough more investment into updating the lines.The revelation has echoes of a controversy which surfaced three years ago when the former Liberal Democrat mayoral candidate Susan Kramer claimed that equipment in a key tube control room was so outdated that officials were forced to approach a transport museum for a spare part.Bob Crow, general secretary of the Rail Maritime and Transport union, explained: "We said from the start that the public-private partnership was an expensive scheme for putting guaranteed, risk-free profits into the bank accounts of privateer shareholders at the expense of taxpayers and tube workers, and that is exactly what is happening."We now have the spectacle of privateers pocketing huge sums of public money searching for obsolete equipment on eBay."Unfortunately for commuters, Tube Lines has not been able to use parts found on eBay to sort out problems on the Northern line.It is in chaos at the moment because radios in the train cabs have failed, leading to huge delays.
"Palm OS developer PalmSource said Wednesday that it will create a Linux version of the Palm OS. The company announced it is acquiring China MobileSoft Limited (CMS), which has been developing a version of the Linux operating system for mobile devices. In a statement, PalmSource said the acquisition indicates the direction in which it is moving," reportsMobile Pipeline News."This is the next stage in our growth and a major milestone for the mobile phone industry," PalmSource CEO David Nagel said in a statement. "We plan to offer the ease-of-use and flexibility that Palm OS is known for to all mobile phones. We believe the combination of PalmSource, CMS and Linux gives us the technological and market critical mass to compete with even the biggest proprietary operating system companies."FYI:PalmSource has published some open letters to Palm users and the Linux communityhere, in PDF form. However, it has also added HTML versions of the letterto Palm OS users, theLinux letter, and theFAQ.Comment:PalmSource's approach is much like Apple's, which may not be surprising since PalmSource is run by an ex-Apple guy. In sum, it is not making its proprietary system open source, it is sticking it on top of Linux (or, in Apple's case, BSD Unix).Specifically, PalmSource is sticking Palm OS 6 (Cobalt) on top of Linux, and will continue to sell both the old Palm OS 5 (Garnet) and current OS 6 separately. Since Cobalt appears to have no users (well, PalmOne hasn't adopted it), this presumably won't cause much disruption.This is probably a good move, since Palm OS is losing market share, Sony -- one of its biggest backers -- has dropped its PDAs outside of Japan, and PalmOne has reportedly been considering Windows Mobile. Palm OS already looks like the weakest player in a market that is dividing between Symbian and Microsoft.However, it may be too little, too late. If Palm hadn't been seduced by the splendour of BeOS then it might already have a Linux-based OS 6.Also, it must be said that various companies -- including Sharp -- have already tried offering Linux on PDAs and they have all flopped. This doesn't mean PalmSource's Linux-based OS 7 (or whatever) will fail, but that success is not guaranteed.
Today's Timessays "scientists have linked portable computers and male infertility":"Businessmen and teenage boys could be risking their fertility by using laptop computers, research suggests.""The combination of heat generated by the computers and the posture needed to balance the equipment on the lap leads to raised temperatures around the scrotum, a study has found. Past research shows that higher scrotal temperatures scan damage sperm and affect fertility."Looks like it's time to put those computers away, boys.Or at least wear heatproof trousers.Update:Wouldn't you know it, but in today'sGuardian, James Meikle covers the same story... Sheesh, that's what happens when you're out of the office for the morning and don't get a chance to read the paper.
"A linguist from the University of Pittsburgh has published a scholarly paper deconstructing and deciphering the word "dude," contending it is much more than a catchall for lazy, inarticulate surfers, skaters, slackers and teenagers," reportsAP.An admitted dude-user during his college years, Scott Kiesling said the four-letter word has many uses: in greetings ("What's up, dude?"); as an exclamation ("Whoa, Dude!"); commiseration ("Dude, I'm so sorry."); to one-up someone ("That's so lame, dude."); as well as agreement, surprise and disgust ("Dude.").
Twenty years ago there was real cachet to using an IBM PC. Its uniqueness and quality were reflected in the price: roughly &#163;6,000 for a system with a huge 10 megabyte hard drive, 640K of memory and a printer. That was getting on for half my annual salary.Today few people care which brand of PC they use, and thousands of companies knock out respectable machines for &#163;500 or less - roughly a week's salary for many buyers.Falling prices and increased competition have changed the economics of the PC business for IBM and similar companies. If you can pocket 42% of &#163;6,000 you can afford to employ workers with company cars, pension plans, holiday entitlements and 40-hour weeks. If you can only bank 15% of &#163;500 then you probably can't - and in China, India and similar places, you don't have to.It's not a matter of automating production: IBM did that decades ago. Nor is it as simple as outsourcing, which IBM has done all along. It's the cost of product design, testing, advertising, marketing and support.The seeds of destruction were sown in Project Acorn, when the IBM PC was designed. Traditionally, IBM tried to produce everything for its computers: chips, drives, monitors, operating systems, applications, manuals, training courses, maintenance services, communications. The IBM PC, however, was designed in a hurry using non-IBM parts.This was good, because it enabled IBM to benefit from the growing number of third-party suppliers. It was also bad, because other companies had access to exactly the same parts. And some of them turned out to be smarter at design, more efficient at manufacturing, better at marketing, and much quicker on their feet than the tired old monopolist that was IBM.Today's IBM is a different sort of beast. For the past decade it has been selling off or spinning off hardware operations - printers, disk drives, PCs - and rebuilding its software and services businesses. These now represent 64% of IBM's $95bn (&#163;49bn) annual turnover.There's a lot more money to be made from a consultant charged out at $1,500 (&#163;771) a day than from flogging a PC for &#163;500. What's more, if you can sign $1bn services deals with companies like Lloyds TSB, you can probably rely on the money continuing to flow in for years.&#183;Jack Schofield is the Guardian's computer editor
Many Chinese companies are already world leaders and others are moving into the global marketplace through foreign acquisitions and overseas partners. They include:ComputersLenovo, China's biggest PC manufacturer, is to buy IBM's personal computer business for $1.75bn (&#163;900m) to become the world's third biggest PC maker after Dell and Hewlett-PackardCarsShanghai Automotive Industry has a 30% share of the Chinese car market, mostly under General Motors and Volkswagen branding. It wants to establish its own label to become the world's sixth largest car maker by 2020. Reportedly awaiting approval for a &#163;1bn link with MG Rover.Kitchen appliancesGalanz, with 40% of the global microwave oven market, plans to ramp up capacity by 25% next year. Other Chinese world market leaders are Haier (refrigerators), Guangdong Donlim (kettles) and GD Midea Holding (rice cookers). China supplies 70% of the world's kitchen appliances.TelevisionsTCL has a deal with France's Thomson SA to combine their TV and DVD businesses to create the world's biggest manufacturer of televisions.Computer gamesShanda Entertainment has rocketed to domestic success. It is now looking for an overseas partner.
IBM yesterday sold its personal computer business to China's leading manufacturer, Lenovo, in a deal that reflects the profound changes taking place in the economic world order and marks the end of an era for one of America's most iconic companies.The sale is a great leap forward for China, still nominally a communist country, onto the global business stage. The deal is the largest overseas acquisition by a Chinese company and Lenovo will become the third largest maker of personal computers in the world.As a part of the $1.75bn (&#163;900m) deal Lenovo will have use of the IBM name on PCs and laptops for at least five years.IBM, founded in 1911, has been one of the most enduring symbols of corporate America and played a crucial role in shaping the modern era. The company, known as the Big Blue, ushered computers into homes and offices when it launched its first desktop in 1981.In the early years IBM became the standard in PC manufacturing, at one stage selling 70% of all computers made. IT departments fell back on the adage that nobody ever got fired for choosing IBM.The company's technology bled into everyday life, providing software for the first cash point machines and supermarket scanners in the 1970s.IBM was not the first onto the market in the early 1980s but lending its experience in mainframes to the desktop computer moved it into the mainstream.The speed with which the PC made its mark was reflected in 1982 when Time Magazine broke with style and chose the personal computer as its "Man of the Year".IBM also shaped the industry in another way. Its first desktop computer opened the door for a still fledgling Microsoft, while Intel produced the processor. That decision has been hugely criticised by historians for allowing the two suppliers to build a stranglehold on the computing industry. The move effectively ceded control to Microsoft, which set the standard for software and continues to make billions of dollars in profits.The disposal of the PC division illustrates how computers have become a pervasive part of everyday life. The PC is now little more than a commodity item in an intensely competitive market, offering manufacturers the hope of only slim profits.IBM chief executive Sam Palmisano said the PC market "continues to take on characteristics of the home and consumer electronics industry, which favours enormous economies of scale".Although a symbolic wrench with the past, IBM's decision to shed the computer division came as little surprise to anyone who has watched the industry.IBM has been transforming its business for years, shifting from the building and sale of PCs to more lucrative areas like services and consulting work for the world's largest corporations. The sale of desktop and laptop computers today only accounts for around 12% of IBM's annual revenue of $92bn (&#163;47bn). This year the division was expected to make less than $100m in profits - peanuts for a company of IBM's size - on sales of around $10bn.IBM led the market until 1994 but the firm then began to lose ground, suffering as the likes of Dell began to put pressure on prices.IBM had around 6% of the global market for PC sales before yesterday's deal was announced, putting it a distant third   behind Hewlett Packard with 16.1% and Dell with 18%.IBM has been under pressure for years to sell the PC business. By 1993, the company's annual losses reached $8bn. In an effort to stem the problem, IBM retreated from the retail market and began focusing on corporate customers. It sold its manufacturing plants three years ago and had confined itself to design, product development and sales.The Lenovo deal covers IBM's desktop and laptop business including the 'Think' brand. Lenovo is paying IBM $1.25bn in cash and shares and assuming another $500m in debt from the US company. IBM as a result will own an 18.9% stake in the Chinese firm.Lenovo, founded in 1984 and already the leading brand in China with more than a quarter of the market, will have $12bn in annual revenues and around 8% global share.The company's founder Chuanzhi Liu described the deal as a "breakthrough" in its ambition to become a global business. "Our unwavering goal has been to create a truly international enterprise," he said. Lenovo will gain access to 160 countries by taking over IBM's sales and distribution network.The company will open a new United States headquarters in New York with its principal operations based in Beijing and Raleigh, North Carolina. American management imported from IBM will lead the company, a nod to the still greater experience of the US on the international scene.Lenovo's rapid rise to international prominence is typical of the path taken by China's leading corporations since the launch of the country's market-orientated economic reforms in 1978. The firm, known until last year as Legend, was founded in 1984 by a group of Chinese government scientists and financed from public coffers.For most of its first decade, the company merely distributed foreign-built computers, but its engineers quickly learned how to copy and adapt the designs. In 1997 - only four years after the start of its manufacturing operations - Legend overtook IBM as the leading seller of PCs in China.Further deals from Chinese firms can be expected in the future as the government in Beijing pushes ahead with an industrial strategy that aims to turn at least one domestic producer into an international competitor in every field of business.Flush with cash from an export industry in overdrive and a domestic economy that has hurtled forward at an annual rate of more than 9% for the past two decades, Chinese firms are being encouraged to step out from the shadows of joint ventures with foreign multinationals and establish their own global brands."It's a signpost, and a really prominent one, on what's the next phase for China, which is moving outwards," said Bob Broadfoot of the political and Economic Risk consultancy in Hong Kong.Employment will not be affected - about 10,000 IBM workers, more than 40% already in China, will be joining Lenovo.
The results ofThe Guardian's 2004 Game of the Yearcompetition are finally in, and the good news is that – quite literally – many thousands of you voted for your most-deserving titles. What's emerged is not a surprise. Top of the console chart is the controversial GTA: San Andreas, top of the mobile and handheld list is Zelda: Minish Cap and streaking to the lead, laps around any of the other games in all the categories is the magnificent Half Life 2.Continue reading for a full listing, but pray tell: are your fellow readers spot on or a bunch of buffoons? And how on Earth did Rome: Total War squeeze above Doom 3?!Console Games1/ GTA San Andreas (PS2) 2/ Halo 2 3/ Pro Evo 4 (PS2/Xbox) 4/ Fable (Xbox) 5/ Burnout 3 (PS2/Xbox) 6/ Star Wars Battlefront (PS2/Xbox) 7/ Pikmin 2 (GC) 8/ Deux Ex: Invisible War (Xbox) 9/ Metroid Prime 2 (GC) 10/ Full Spectrum Warrior (Xbox)Mobile Games1/ Zelda: Minish Cap (GBA) 2/ Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow (mobile) 3/ The Sims Bustin' Out (N-Gage) 4/ Metroid: Zero Mission (GBA) 5/ Pokemon Fire Red/Leaf Green (GBA) 6/ Micro Machines (Mobile) 7/ Rainbow Six 3 (mobile) 8/ Might and Magic (mobile) 9/ Fatal Force (Mobile) - 27 10/ Pocket Kingdom (N-Gage)PC games1/ Half Life 2 2/ Rome: Total War 3/ Doom 3 4/ Football Manager 2005 5/ Sims 2 6/ Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault 7/ Prince of Persia 8/ Thief 3: Deadly Shadows 9/ World of Warcraft 10/ Everquest 2
Thousands of men across the country will be crossing their legs and groaning in despair today when they learn that their trusted friend, the laptop computer, has become the latest threat to their manhood.Just months after they were   warned that carrying mobile phones in their pockets might damage their sperm count, men now have to absorb the news that laptops can similarly threaten their fertility.Under the title "Increase in scrotal temperature in laptop computer users", researchers today reveal in the journal Human Reproduction that a combination of the heat generated by the computers and the position of the thighs needed to balance the machines leads to higher temperatures around men's genitals.Yefim Sheynkin, who led the research team from the State University of New York at Stonybrook, said it was possible that years of heavy laptop   use "may cause irreversible or partially reversible changes in male reproductive function".Until there was further research, teenage boys and young men might want to limit the use of computers on their laps, he said.Past studies have suggested higher scrotal temperatures can damage sperm and affect   fertility. Pesticides, smoking, obesity, prolonged car driving and tight trousers had all been blamed for diminishing male potency while the mobile phone theory was suggested by Hungarian scientists this summer.Dr Sheynkin said, however, that except for an anecdotal report of genital burns, the effect of portable computers on scrotal temperature had not been known. "Laptops can reach internal operating temperatures of over 70C. They are frequently positioned close to the scrotum, as well as being capable of producing direct local heat, they require the user to sit with his thighs close together to balance the machine, trapping the scrotum." The researchers worked with 29 volunteers between 21 and 35, measuring their scrotal temperature with and without laptops, during two one-hour sessions on different days, in a room where the temperature was around 22C.The surface temperature of the computers rose from   nearly 31C to nearly 40C after one hour, while the scrotal temperature had risen by 1C in 15 minutes of computer use.Evoking images of the laptop equivalents of the cricketer's box, Dr Sheynkin said: "It's possible that external protective devices could help."
A new record in government computing was set last week when the West Midlands borough of Walsall announced it is negotiating a &#163;650m contract with an IT company. The price tag, &#163;2,500 for each of the borough's 252,000 residents, is the largest yet put on a "strategic partnership" between a council and a computer firm.Councils across Britain are putting big money into new technology. Spending on IT systems has risen by 40% over the past two years, according to an annual survey published today. Local authorities are being "very creative" in finding the money, according to the survey, by the IT managers association SocITM.The Walsall deal is an example of creativity. It involves the council and its contractor, Fujitsu Services, setting up a joint venture company to modernise a basket of 20 public services and run them for 12 years.More than 1,500 council staff will transfer to the new employer, which will take over everything from school caretaking to public libraries, as well as investing more than &#163;20m in new IT.In theory, everyone benefits. The   council receives an injection of investment and skills it could not raise on its own, while the firm makes money by cutting the cost of bureaucracy. Citizens of Walsall get a joined-up, e-enabled council that can be contacted through a single phone number or around the clock by email. "Our citizens will be the real beneficiaries," says Annie Shepperd, the council's chief executive.However, many details of the new arrangement, including who will own what share of the new company, are still being negotiated. The venture may also get a rough ride from unions, despite promises that staff will keep their terms and conditions.Shepperd says that years of under-investment and political uncertainty have left Walsall with no alternative if it wants to modernise. The authority lags behind its neighbours in the quality of services it provides. Inefficiencies abound. "We are quite bureaucratic - we have four separate post rooms and no single call centre."Rationalising the council's "back offices" will save money and make life simpler for citizens, she says. The new venture is supposed to be running by April.Walsall is following a handful of councils in setting up strategic partnerships with IT firms. They include Liverpool, Shepperd's former employer, and Rotherham, both working with BT.Most authorities, however, prefer to keep responsibility for modernisa  tion in house. The country's largest council, Birmingham City, which is in the process of picking an IT supplier in a contract that could be worth &#163;500m, says it has already begun modernising systems and that there will be no further outsourcing. "It's about business transformation. We're   very open about models to operate that process," says Glyn Evans, head of IT. One idea is that a contractor could take on a service temporarily, "transform" it and then hand it back to the council to run.The Walsall deal is unusually complicated because it is part of a regeneration programme. Fujitsu is investing &#163;115m in a regional headquarters, which will create 750 jobs in the borough. This, in turn, is part of a project to revitalise Walsall's rundown waterfront to create "a vibrant cultural and commercial centre". The council is also hoping that other public agencies, such as the NHS and police, can be persuaded to run their back-office services, such as payroll, from Walsall.Many other authorities, prodded by the government's efficiency review, are looking to get into the same business. Nearly all are upgrading their IT. According to SocITM's annual IT Trends survey, councils will spend almost &#163;2.7bn this year, 10% up on last year. The trends are towards personal devices such as portables, smart phones and personal digital assistants. Microsoft is also doing well. "Where &#91;software&#93; standardisation is a goal, Microsoft would appear to be the winner," says the survey.However SocITM warns that investing money in IT doesn't automatically create efficiencies. "Councils have concentrated on better services not better value for money and this has often led to higher rather than lower cost."Another problem is that councils are bewildered by the sheer range of targets and standards set by central government to e-enable services and cut costs. All authorities are supposed to be cutting costs by 2.5% a year over the next three years.The SocITM report says that too many initiatives, rather than lack of money, is now the main barrier to e-government. Shepperd shares this concern. "If everything is a priority, the danger is you'll not achieve anything."
Mobile phonesTrademark of traditionWhile Nokia's last 3G phone, the 7600, sported an unusual tear-shaped design and a rather odd keypad, the company has played safe with the 6630, its latest 3G handset. Likely to be available from all the 3G networks by early next year, the phone is a turbo-charged version of the company's 6600 GPRS smartphone. Teamed with Vodafone's 3G network, it downloaded nearly all emails instantaneously and connected to websites far quicker than GPRS rivals.The 6630 also boasts an excellent screen and a high-quality 1.2 megapixel camera. The 6630 runs on the Symbian operating system and uses the Series 60 interface. It is compatible with a host of standard Microsoft applications and sports Bluetooth for wireless connection to a laptop. It is a superb phone, though potential buyers should check what their network charges for web browsing and email downloads. Orange is offering a significantly better deal than Vodafone.www.nokia.co.uki-mode coming to UKLast week, O2 announced a deal with Japanese network NTT DoCoMo to introduce the i-mode system to the UK late next year. The granddaddy of internet systems for mobiles, i-mode has been operational in Japan since 1999. It is a more sophisticated version of Wap portals such as Vodafone live! and Orange World that is compatible with both GPRS and 3G systems.NTT DoCoMo has been shopping for a UK partner for i-mode for years (it has already signed up 10 European networks). In O2 it has found a company attracted by the way subscribers spend more on data services via their mobile than Wap users. i-mode's champions point not only to the huge amount of content developed for the system, but also its stable and secure platform. O2 hopes to take advantage of this by offering real-time internet banking, with customers able to makes transactions using their mobile phones.O2 is almost certainly eyeing up Sony's Felicia system, which debuted on Japanese i-mode phones in August. Among its applications is the option of turning a phone into a kind of mobile wallet, with owners able to pay for food, drinks and transport tickets simply by pointing the phone at a terminal. Another potential feature is for the phone to replace the keys to your door.Most industry observers believe O2 has waited to secure a deal because of difficulties with handsets. "i-mode requires dedicated i-mode handsets. However, most of the phones have been Japanese in origin and not particularly attractive to European customers," says Hugh Griffiths, head of data products at O2. "Now Motorola, Siemens and Sony Ericsson are making i-mode phones we think the handsets are improving."Griffiths also adds that the arrival of 3G - the first 3G i-mode handsets are due in Europe late next year- will enable new, video-based applications for the phones.While there are many financial and strategic reasons for O2 choosing i-mode, success will be determined by whether it delivers the increased data revenues that have made it such a hit in Japan. If not, O2 may, in the long run, stick with its O2 Active Wap service.Hugh Roberts, associate strategist at Logan Orviss International, argues that "to compete with Vodafone live!, O2 needs to develop innovative relationships with multiple third- party content providers and turn them into attractively priced packages of new and traditional services."If O2's hunch is right, expect to see other networks turning Japanese, too.3G rolls onOrange is to become the third British network to offer a 3G phone for consumers. Due imminently are four handsets: the Orange-only Sanyo S750, Samsung's Z107, Sony Ericsson's Z1010 and the LG U8150. Prices range from nothing to &#163;120, depending on contract. Nokia's 3G smartphone, the 6630 Motorola's low-end handset (the C975) and a 3G version of its Microsoft Windows-powered SPV smartphone will follow. The phones offer similar features to 3 and Vodafone's 3G services, including video calling, music, sports and news video downloads and streaming. Unique to Orange are Video Answerphone, where users can leave a short video message, and Traffic TV. Orange is also offering full web browsing via the handsets and laptops (the phone is the modem) as part of its tariffs. Subscribers pay between &#163;30 and &#163;70 a month for downloading up to 50MB of data. This includes web browsing and email, and film and news videos from the Orange World site. The higher tariffs include more voice call minutes.www.orange.co.ukHigh fliersFrench manufacturer Sagem is targeting high-end mobile users with the My X-8, a phone with a 1.3 megapixel camera and 262k colour screen. The camera has an 8x digital zoom, integrated flash and can also capture video. Finished in white, the handset sports a music player compatible with MP3 and AAC files, a Wap browser, Java for games, Bluetooth and a mini SD card slot. It will be available in the new year through the manufacturer's website.www.sagem.co.ukPortable playersPicture perfectOlympus is taking a crack at the audio market with the release of two hard disk-based personal players. Expected here in the spring, the m:robe MR500i is a rival to Apple's iPod Photo and features a 20GB hard disk, a 3.7in 640 x 480 colour touch screen and, unusually for a music player, an integrated 1.3 megapixel camera. Its partner player, the m:robe MR-100, is smaller in size and capacity (5GB) and has a mono screen. Both are compatible with MP3 and WMA files and JPeg images.www.olympus.co.ukShowdowniRiver is to become the second manufacturer to deliver a Microsoft Portable Media Center AV player to the UK. Already on sale in the US, the PMC-120, below, features a 3.5in LCD display, a 20GB hard disk and built-in speakers. It plays back Windows Media audio and video files and users can transfer TV shows recorded on the hard drive of a Windows Media Center PC to the player. It can also display JPeg images and play back MP3 audio files. Batteries last up to 14 hours for audio and five hours of video. It goes on sale next year.www.iriver.comSearch enginesInto the foldThe new 2.0 version of Blinkx, can not only simultaneously scour the web, blogs, news, emails, desktops and digital TV while you are writing in Word but also creates "smart" folders. If you drag stories from the web or your word processor into them, Blinkx will search for related stuff (using artificial intelligence, not page rankings). You can also ask it to search Google or Yahoo at the same time for the best of both worlds. Available for PCs only at the moment but for Macs in January, future attractions will include searching the day's radio and TV programmes just by quoting the context.www.blinkx.comStat of the week: Radio gagaMore people than ever are listening to radio online, but it is still a very young market. In fact, American research shows that almost half of all web radio listeners have been tuning in for less than a year.
This has truly been the year of the music player. After Apple laid the foundations with the wildly successful iPod, the phenomenal growth of online music stores such as iTunes and Napster 2.0 has bolstered an already vibrant music player market.The king of the jungle remains the iPod, although competitors clawed back plenty of ground over the past year. The iPod is still the byword for urban cool, and holds a lofty pop culture status that few pieces of technology have managed.British prices remain steep compared with the US - a typical 20GB iPod costs &#163;219 in the UK, compared with just $299 (&#163;153) in the States - but the pod remains usable, stylish and well-recognised. Apple is solving some of the niggles (such as relatively poor battery life) but the real strength of the iPod lies in the ever-growing range of accessories - users can now buy skins, speakers, voice recorders and radio transmitters among other things.The standard size for a music player is 20GB, which can hold around 10,000 tracks. Many players come in bigger sizes, though you have to pay for the privilege. The 40GB iPod will set you back &#163;299, but those wanting a further boost may look to the colour-screen iPod Photo, which comes in 40GB (&#163;359) and 60GB (&#163;429) variants. The colour screen and TV output are useful, but it feels like a stepping stone towards a video model and cost-conscious consumers may prefer to wait and see before plumping for a Photo.The biggest rival to Apple looks set to be Sony, another trusted electron ics brand with a reputation for style and substance. Until recently, the company's insistence on only supporting its proprietary Atrac format meant interest was low. But now the sleek, chic, aluminium Sony NW-HD3 has arrived, an ultra-small 20GB model that also supports the ubiquitous (and more usable) MP3 format. It also boasts 30 hours of playback and four colours for &#163;220, and is small enough to pass off as a mini, but has the welly to compete with the big boys.Other makes have much to offer if you are happy without the cachet of a household name. The Creative Zen Touch, which trades the iPod's circular click wheel for a vertical trackpad, is well designed - and competitively priced at &#163;200.For more innovation and less derivation, have a look at the superslim 20GB Cowon iAudio M3 (&#163;219), which pulls all the functions out of the main body of the player and into a dinky remote, and adds a built-in FM radio for good measure. That kind of extra is something you have to pay through the nose for with   other models. Or there is the robust &#163;200 Rio Karma, which ditches traditional styling and adds a handy Ethernet port.If you prefer your player more petite than powerful, you could opt for one of the mini or Flash players flooding the market. There is greater variation throughout the small player market, but the most high-profile model is, again, from Apple - the &#163;180 iPod Mini. The colourful cigarette-case look comes in a variety of colours and hides a 4GB drive, enough to keep most casual music fans happy. There are fewer   accessories than for the ordinary iPod, though, which means the competition is closing in fast.Leading the charge is the &#163;190 Creative Zen Micro, which shamelessly pilfers the classic white iPod style. It is smaller than its rival, and bigger - with a 5GB drive - but retains usability as well as the cool factor.There are hordes of Flash players on the market, which are cheaper (and more stable) because they use Flash memory chips. It pays to shop around, but among the top contenders is the 128MB Oregon Scientific MP120, a waterproof model   you can wear while swimming. At just &#163;100, it offers great value for those who need something rugged and durable but can only hold a few hours' worth of songs. The 256MB MPIO FL200, on the other hand, packs more punch into a tiny 42mm diameter unit. It discards the LCD screen in favour of flashing lights and comes in at a remarkably cheap &#163;90. MPIO's sister player, the 256MB FL300, retains the screen but measures just 50mm by 30mm - surely small enough for anyone's needs.Top 10 music players1Apple iPod2Sony NW-HD33Creative Zen Micro4Cowon iAudio M35Apple iPod Mini6Creative Zen Touch7MPIO FL2008Apple iPod Photo9Oregon Scientific MP12010Rio Karma
E-commerce analysts are predicting a bumper Christmas for net shopping. This year, for the first time, seasonal revenues in the EU are predicted to exceed those in the US. Forrester Research anticipates that festive shopping online in western Europe will bring in &euro;13bn, compared with &euro;10bn in the US - a 44% increase over last year.The UK still leads in Europe, with 32.4% of the overall market. And according to a UK-based survey by the Interactive Media in Retail Group (www.imrg.org), Brits will spend &#163;4bn online this Christmas. But larger economies (Germany and France) are catching up and are expected to outpace Britain in the next five years. That's a sign the e-commerce sector is maturing, something borne out by Forrester's predictions that clothing will be the second most popular online Christmas purchase this year - just behind travel. The conventional wisdom used to be that people would never buy clothes online. Now, with many catalogue retailers online, clothing is expected to account for 17% of total online sales across Europe over the holiday season - outpacing things such as groceries and alcohol.Just as the market is growing up, so net shoppers are becoming smarter. Five years ago, when people first began to buy online in significant numbers, smart shopping meant knowing how to negotiate an online check-out. The past two years, however, have seen the rise of a new sort of consumer. Just as retailers now use multichannel sales strategies (online, the high street and more), individual shoppers now use everything the net has to offer -   including shopping sites, individual sellers, reviews from consumers and price comparison tools - to get the best deal.More than ever, there are bargains to be had. UK Online Centres, a government initiative aimed at getting more people to log on, estimate that Christmas shoppers could cut a third off their bill by using the web. Those relying on the high street risk missing out on "a potential &#163;6bn of savings over the festive season". These rather vague figures are aimed at people still unconvinced by the net. In contrast, smart shoppers know about online savings - but they are just as likely to take the prices they get online to the high street and haggle for an even better price."Two years ago, the empowered consumer was just an idea. Now it is real," says Hellen Omwando, European consumer markets analyst at Forrester. "The net gives them access to information they didn't have before, about product availability, choice and, more importantly, pricing."In the future, shoppers will probably rely on tools such as Froogle, Google's price comparison tool. They can also turn to sites such as Kelkoo (www.kelkoo.co.uk), the shopping search and price comparison site, and UK Shopping.com (www.uk.shopping.com), which launched here last summer. The latter features the price comparison service DealTime, along with product ratings and information written by individual buyers from Epinions, the American consumer review site."Many of the first price comparison services didn't really work," says Ehud Furman, managing director in Europe for Shopping.com. "But we think DealTime is now delivering value for both retailers and consumers." Deal Time searches more than 1,000 sites and aims to provide around 35 to 45 offers for every product search.Furman says that Shopping.com has been tracking the evolution of the informed shopper over the past two years and will create services for them. On the UK site, users buying via recommendations can rate the retailer, eBay-style. "Sites with high ratings are already showing higher conversion rates - people who visit them are more likely to move on to an actual purchase," says Furman. However, the range of reviewing options available on Epinions may take a while to arrive on UK Shopping.com.Smart shoppers would seem to be driving up online revenues, but some analysts also think their emergence poses a problem for traditional retailers. They argue that informed consumers take less notice of traditional one-way advertising and are much less loyal to old-style brands."New technology lends the disloyal   a hand," says Omwando. "It is a great way for consumers to switch easily between different providers." Pricing is critical for smart shoppers, she says, mainly because "a lot of the products in the market nowadays are the same. In the past, one product might have been superior to another so there were reasons to be loyal. Now, it is difficult to find products that are just bad. Plasma screen TVs from Sony and Philips are similar." Consumers know this and hunt around for the best price, or for the retailer that gives something more, or an opportunity for customisation.Low price is one way to draw smart shoppers, but businesses that want to retain them should find ways to work with the social networks many smart shoppers develop and rely on. Indeed, these social networks might ultimately let businesses collaborate with smart shoppers to improve their marketing strategies, says Viki Cooke, joint chief executive of Opinion Leader Research (www.opinion leader.co.uk). Surveys done by the company indicate that while people are suspicious of authority in all forms - from politicians to big corporations - they do trust their peers."Organisations need to understand how influence works," says Cooke. "It is not about power and authority any more. It is about people's ability to persuade people just like themselves. There are social influencers in any given network, who are persuasive about the things they believe in. They have more sway because they are accessible, they're using your own language, they're relating products and ideas to lives like your own."Leading online retailers have always known this. EBay's rating system uses individual customer feedback to inform the shopping experience. Similarly, Amazon has individual reviews and product recommendations generated by collaborative filtering tools (in which purchases made by consumers who bought the same items as   you, are used to generate new product suggestions). AsAmazon.co.uk's group product manager Rakhi Parekh says, it can be a useful Christmas shopping tool. "Say you are looking for a present for a relative. You know they like a particular book. By seeing the things other people who liked the book also bought, you can follow a trail and find something that is going to work as a present."But there are potential pitfalls. Many smart shoppers like recommending items to others. "But you can't overtly sell to them," Cooke says. "They have to want to buy. They will pick information from all sorts of sources before they do.""Word of mouth can be risky for marketers," says Forrester's Omwando. "If you try to cheat consumers by paying other consumers to talk up a brand - if that comes out, the backlash is terrible." Instead, companies should provide smart shoppers with venues where they can review, compare and recommend products to others. There are some innovative sites such as Tremor.com, an online marketing site run by Procter &amp; Gamble, which sets out to be a home for teenage trendsetters, who get access to new products and ideas in return for their input. In addition, companies should listen to the conversations people are having on weblogs and social network sites. Omwando recommends using tools such as Feedster (www.feedster.com) to aggregate the conversations consumers have online about products.There is perhaps an opportunity for social networking services looking to generate some revenue.Yub.comwas bought this summer byBuy.com, the online retailer,   and has been relaunched. Yub is "buy" backwards and stands for young urban buyer, the site's target market (its strap line is "Meet. Hang. Buy.").According to Yub.com president Jared Morgenstern, the site lets members create lists of brands and products they like. If friends buy via a link, the member recommending the product gets a cut, and the buyer gets a discount. Yub.com attracts shoppers, keen to earn money from reviewing and recommending, along with general consumers. "Individuals can become friends through profile sharing and chatting. Therefore their recommendations are more significant than what a company promotes through traditional marketing." He argues that the site is a great place for businesses to find out what people think of their products. There is a risk, of course. If they don't like something, shoppers don't hold back."Because of the risk element," says Omwando, "companies have shied away from social networks. It is mainly because they don't have control over the process. What we are saying is it is hard to have control. So sit back, manage the process and let consumers take direct control".Have your sayNext week,Online will be publishing a Christmas special featuring our pick of the internet's top websites. If you have any suggestions on sites that should be included, or think one of your favourite sites is an overlooked gem, then email the details toonline.webwatch@guardian.co.uk
The tiny kung-fu fighters are attacking again. Fortunately, my best mate's gran has seen them and is merrily swatting them away with her hands, her hairdo and a teaspoon. Five minutes ago, she had never played a computer game. Now she's just beaten my high score.It takes a lot to shock a room full of games developers, but Richard Marks did just that in 1999 with his creation, EyeToy. When he stepped up to the stage at the Sony Europe developer conference, the main screen was filled with asterisks. He stood in front of a camera and calmly wiped them all away with his hand. The room fell silent."We all looked at each other and said 'which one of us is going to develop this?'" remembers Mike Haigh, now EyeToy development director. The group that got the chance was Sony Camden, which later became part of Sony London Studios. Marks, an American who built cameras for underwater robots, moved to the UK and started working with Sony Camden on the technology.The standard PlayStation 2 (PS2) controller has 15 buttons. The Xbox has 11. The EyeToy has none. It is a small camera that, once plugged into a PS2, displays on the screen an image of you surrounded by bright computer graphics. Buttons on the screen are pressed by waving your hands over them.Everything works exactly how it would in the real world - at least, how it would if you were as flat as the TV screen. Dirty windows can be wiped clean. Bubbles can be burst with your finger. A ball can be kept in   the air with your head (or your elbow, or your tongue).For perhaps the first time in the history of computing, things behave exactly as they should. There is no interface gap - no character represents you, because there you are on the screen, waving your arms and moving things in front of you. No instruction manual. Just plug in and start to play. And it makes a great party game."It involves a very natural interface - body movement," says Gonzalo Frasca, a researcher in computer games at the IT University of Copenhagen. "So even people who have never played computer games feel they can give it a try. EyeToy did to my wife what seven years of marriage to a videogame researcher could not: get her into videogames."The first EyeToy game, Play, came out in winter last year and was an instant success. Unusually for a computer game, it kept on selling - more than 4m at the last count. The more people played it at others' houses, the more they wanted a copy of their own. And not all were in the usual games player demographic."When we trialled it at a games event, we had no idea we would get grandparents and mothers playing," says Ron Festajo, creative director of EyeToy. "Normally, the parents would be sitting around talking, while the children played with the controllers. But when they saw their children washing windows with their hands, they were saying 'let me show you how it's done, you haven't got a clue how to wash windows'. The parents were competing against their children. That's when we knew we had something special."A lot of the magic came from that launch game, which was like nothing people had played before - and yet was simple enough for everyone to try."If we'd launched it as the obvious webcam - it's a camera, it sits on your PS2 and the killer app is that you can see your friends and family across the world - I don't think it would have been anywhere near as successful," says Haigh. "It's too obvious. It needed something that sparked the imagination."To help develop the platform, Sony has made the device's development coding freely available. EyeToy: Chat is now available, as are plenty of third-party games. In the new year, Sony will release Kinetic - an EyeToy personal exercise trainer developed with Nike. It uses a wider lens add-on to provide a full-body workout.Sony London is also developing EyeToy for the forthcoming PSP handheld, while Marks is playing with depth-sensitive cameras which, depending on per-unit cost, may or may not emerge on the PlayStation 3.Meanwhile, the success of EyeToy means that both Nintendo and Microsoft are reportedly developing their own versions for the next generation of consoles available next year. PC and Mac webcam games are also now appearing. ToySight, for example, was developed in Newcastle, and uses Apple's iSight camera to play EyeToy-like minigames.Camera play is becoming a platform of its own, but the technology behind these games is nothing remarkable - they could probably have been created years ago. It needed someone to take the risk and prove it could be successful.
Mission achievedCall Of Duty: Finest HourPlayStation 2, Xbox, GameCube, &#163;39.99 Spark/Activision, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;In a way, the Call Of Duty franchise epitomises the modern games industry. Founded in opportunism - last year's much-loved PC game was developed by a chunk of the original Medal Of Honor development team - the franchise has grown up, evinced by the fact that this year's offering was designed for the consoles. And nothing has been lost in the translation.Initially, Finest Hour does not feel like a new game. As with the original, you begin as a Russian soldier in Stalingrad, who must survive until he can pick up a weapon from a dead comrade. But while Finest Hour shares some of its predecessor's level designs and art, it soon diverges in terms of the gameplay tasks, and contains a different set of characters.It does follow the original's blueprint, in that you play as Russian, American and British soldiers across numerous locations. Technically, Finest Hour is the most impressive second world war console game. Activision licensed technology from the company of the late Muppets creator Jim Henson, which allows it to populate battlefields with unprecedented artificial intelligence soldiers, and the graphics and sound provide a startlingly realistic battleground experience. The missions, too, add to the air of authenticity.You have to tackle just about every fighting discipline - cutting down waves of enemies with machine-guns, sniping and shooting, interspersed with breaking ranks to deal with rocket launchers. Call Of Duty: Finest Hour is a must-buy for   console-owning game fans, and should also prove popular online.Steve BoxerThe plot thickensThe Moment of SilencePC, &#163;29.99, Digital Jesters/House of Tales, &#42;&#42;&#42;With muscles and guns dominating the gaming headlines, it is heart-warming to see story-driven titles appearing on the shelves. Gaming should be about adventures, and where would adventure games be without a good story?This story takes place in New York circa 2044 and follows Peter Wright, a communications expert working on a freedom of speech program. When Wright is awoken to the sound of armed men dragging away his neighbour (an online journalist), he gets embroiled in a web of political intrigue and cover-up.Although it might be a novel story for a game, it is a familiar movie plot and used in an engaging way, with interesting puzzles and, for the most part, reasonable voice acting.While the cut-scenes are slick, they seem to have come at the expense of in-game graphics. Character models are poorly rendered in places, while the world seems buzzing in some scenes and frozen in others. Path finding is frustrating, with a pre-laid area on which you can tread, leaving great sections of the environment unused.The Moment of Silence is very much a mixed bag, but it does fulfil the important and often underrated task of making you feel like you are   having a proper adventure.Trigger tensionKillzonePlayStation 2, &#163;39.99 Guerilla/Sony, &#42;It is unfair, but natural, to compare Killzone to Halo 2. Both were pitched as the ultimate first-person shooter (FPS) for PlayStation 2 and Xbox respectively. But while Halo 2 delivers in spades on the more powerful Xbox, Killzone is a disappointment.Set in a cliched futuristic environment, Killzone is a tough challenge for even hardened vets of the genre. The combat is occasionally tense, but while a lack of ammunition and weaponry can engender a feeling of nervousness, here it simply causes intense frustration.Other factors, such as irregularly spaced save points, which force tedious redoing of sections, and lack of assailant variety cause more hair-pulling. It's a shame as you can feel a decent game is struggling to get out. The moody graphics create a believable environment, but feel stymied by limitations of the PS2.The audio and sound effects are excellent, and players can take the battle online, but the chances are, in the UK anyway, that the vast majority will only play this offline. Repetitive and flawed, Killzone is a let-down.Greg Howson&#183;Keep up with the latest from the gaming world with our Gamesblog atblogs.guardian.co.uk/gamesTop 5 gamesPlayStation 21Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas2Need for Speed: Underground 23WWE Smackdown! Vs Raw4Fifa 20055The Getaway: Black Monday&#183;Source: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack
So, it's over. Thousands of Online readers voted in our Games of the Year poll. The competition was a slugging match between some real heavyweights but, in the end, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (PS2), pipped Halo 2 to the prize of Best Console Game. The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap took the prize for Best Handheld or Mobile Game, while Half-Life 2 swept all before it to claim Best PC Game.We were also running a prize draw for one lucky reader to win an amazing &#163;1,600 Alienware Aurora PC. After receiving more than 4,000 entries, the first name out of the hat wasHamish Coubroughof Rochdale. Congratulations - the prize will be winging its way to you shortly.Here are the readers' top 10 picks:Console games1.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (PS2)2.Halo 2 (Xbox)3.Pro Evolution Soccer 4 (PS2, Xbox)4.Fable (Xbox)5.Burnout 3 (PS2, Xbox)6.Star Wars Battlefront (PS2, Xbox)7.Pikmin 2 (GC)8.Deus Ex: Invisible War (Xbox)9.Metroid Prime 2 (GC)10.Full Spectrum Warrior (Xbox)Mobile games1.The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap (GBA)2.Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow (mobile)3.The Sims: Bustin' Out (N-Gage)4.Metroid: Zero Mission (GBA)5.Pokem Fire Red/Leaf Green (GBA)6.Micro Machines (mobile)7.Rainbow Six 3 (mobile)8.Might and Magic (mobile)9.Fatal Force (mobile)10.Pocket Kingdom (N-Gage)PC games1.Half-Life 22.Rome: Total War3.Doom 34.Football Manager 20055.The Sims 26.Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault7.Prince of Persia : The Warrior Within8.Thief 3: Deadly Shadows9.World of Warcraft10.Everquest 2
Going digitalI've waited and waited for an MP3 player combined with a DAB digital radio. Is there a technological problem?Ray DevaneyJack Schofield replies:Two problems are holding back a flood of portable DAB/MP3 players. One is the cost of DAB, and the other is the fact that it needs a decent aerial to give reasonable reception in many areas. But the cost of DAB is coming down as volumes increase, and you can generally get acceptable results by making the cable to the headphones double as the aerial. There is at least one product available: the Perstel DR201. This is sold by Gadgets.co.ukfor &#163;230 (Gadgets.co.uk), though Maplin has what looks like the same thing for &#163;120 (maplin.co.uk). This has a telescopic aerial, but it only has 64MB of storage for MP3s. This means you can carry one CD to play if you can't use the radio. The Bug (www.thebug.com) is an ugly-looking non-portable DAB/MP3 system.Wavefinder probsI have a Psion Wavefinder and recently installed Windows XP Service Pack 2, which has stopped it functioning. Psion and the company that wrote the software, RadioScape, are not willing to fix the problem. After paying a substantial amount of money for my Wavefinder and getting less than one year of use out of it, I'm unsure what to do next.MichaelJS:The Wavefinder is basically a    dead product, so I'd sell it as soon as possible. Wavefinders are selling for about &#163;30 oneBay.co.uk. The alternative is to uninstall SP2 and continue to use it until SP2 becomes more or less obligatory, by which time it probably won't be worth much. Alternatives? The Modular Technology DAB card, which fitted a PCI expansion slot, seems to have been discontinued, and shipments of the &#163;99 Aria A-6000 Digital Radio have been suspended until the SP2 problem has been solved. How about a Freeview digital TV card (PCI or USB) such as the Hauppauge WinTV Nova, which will receive and record TV and digital radio, though not DAB radio. The audio quality is good.Network WalkmanMy music collection is about 25GB. However, I'm really struck by the Sony NW-HD1. Is there going to be a 40GB version in the future?Toby WoodJS:Yes, but no one knows when. Hard drives get more capacious every year, so there will be 80GB and even larger versions available eventually. However, the HD1 only supports Sony's Atrac format, so you should look at the new NW-HD3 Network Walkman, which supports both Atrac and MP3. You could, temporarily, transcode some of your MP3s into the 48kbps Atrac 3plus format - see next answer. This reduces the quality but packs more in.Or iPodI have 9,000 songs taking up 30GB on my hard drive. All these are MPeg 4 AAC audio files recorded at 128kbps. The Sony NW-HD3 claims to have the capacity to hold 13,000 tracks in Atrac 3plus 48kbps mode. How can I calculate whether or not my existing files will fit on to this machine, or would I be best to go for an Apple iPod with a 40GB hard drive?Toby WoodJS:Sony's calculation is based on four-minute songs being reduced from 42.3MB (on a CD) to 1.44MB each using Atrac 3plus encoding at 48 kilobits per second. Alternatives include 64kbps (1.94MB per song), 132kbps (4MB) and 256kbps (7.76MB), which offer higher quality. However, there is always a loss of quality when transcoding one lossy format (such as AAC) to another (such as Atrac). As you already have AAC files, I think you would be better off buying a player that supports the AAC format. That pretty much limits your choice of hard disk devices to the iPod.Symbolic errorI seem to have deleted a part of Microsoft Word - the Insert Symbol bit of the drop-down menu.Adrian GreemanJS:All the menus, buttons and toolbars in Word are configurable so it is probably just the menu item that has changed. Go to Tools, select Customise, click Commands and pick the Insert menu in the left-hand pane. You can now add or remove any of the items in the right hand pane.Backchat&#183;Carolyn George asked about finding an ISP that would provide an internet connection with a static IP address, and several readers suggested Dynamic DNS services, which will associate a website address with whatever IP address your ISP assigns to your connection. Thomas Graham points out that this can be inconvenient because "most DNS servers are not updated enough to be 'dynamic' - it can take up to 24 hours to change an IP" - and there may be other restrictions. For example, "AOL will not accept mail originating from a dynamic IP". However, if you have an Ethernet connection via a router, your dynamic IP address may not change for months.
Innovation was long ago deleted from our national curriculum vitae. Although we were once excellent at inventing and exploiting all manner of technologies, there is no longer any point in swanking about things such as railways, penicillin, radar etc, when, in the vital realm of electronics/IT, we 	   have missed almost every boat 	   since 1950. It is depressing to think 	   that PCs, VCRs, packaged software, 	   copiers, microelectronics and so 	   on originated elsewhere.I have written for years about 	   this national malaise and 	   concluded that the primary cause 	   has been a lack of technical nous 	   at the highest levels of industry, 	   finance and government. Few 	   people in power in Britain have the 	   combination of entrepreneurial 	   and technical skills at the heart of 	   essentially all US successes in this 	   field, especially in Silicon Valley.Our worst error has been to 	   neglect real broadband services - optical fibre communication 	   cables installed everywhere and 	   capable of carrying, say, 500 gigabits of "information" per micro-second at a cost of millicents. 	   Fibre-optic cables are now 	   universally used for long-distance 	   communications, at unbelievably 	   low costs, which is why it is 	   economic to locate call centres 	   continents away from "callers".About 20 years ago, I wrote a 	   book, Sunrise Europe, which 	   analysed the technology and 	   economics of my proposed pan-European broadband network - Eurogrid. It made a strong impact; industrial executives throughout 	   Europe read it; serious reviews 	   appeared in broadsheets; and, in 	   the UK, committees of technical 	   directors, departmental secretaries, economists and managing 	   directors were formed to consider 	   my proposals. But it was thumbs 	   down.There were two main reasons. Most prominent was the projected 	   cost of effectively re-wiring Britain. 	   My calculations were that, just for 	   Britain, installing such a network 	   would cost around £15bn annually 	   over 15 years. Staring at an 	   installation cost of around £225bn, 	   BT board members were scornful; senior civil servants dismissed 	   me, I suppose, as a nutter; and 	   financiers and economists ambled 	   off to destroy other visions.Meanwhile, in Singapore, 	   fibre-optic cables have been laid 	   throughout the business districts 	   and, later, to homes. South Korea is 	   advancing impressively down the 	   same track and China is installing 	   universal fibre-optic networks in 	   centres of economic significance, 	   for example in Shanghai.The second reason was that no 	   one could imagine what we might 	   do with the cheap bandwidth. Even 	   today, the ultimate impact cannot 	   be predicted precisely, although 	   I shall attempt it in my next book, Information Vision.Ironically, none of this has 	   stopped billions being shovelled 	   into dubious 3G mobile telephony. 	   Operators such as 3 and Vodafone 	   plan to provide a communications 	   service that, although mobile, will 	   have massively lower bandwidth 	   and speed and frighteningly 	   higher costs than Eurogrid.&#183;Professor Ian Mackintosh was a 	   consultant to the electronics and 	   IT industry for more than two decades.
