Got $16,000 or so? If you have, and were quick enough, you might have been able to get hold of a pair of Google's "Glass" systems, which you wear like glasses and can shoot hands-free video, take pictures, and offer directions – via the auction site eBay. The listing has very recently been taken down – possibly at Google's behest.Although Google Glass won't go on sale to the public until the end of this year, with a price tag expected to be above $1,500 (£990), the search giant has said it will invite some people to take part in a seeding programme to see how ordinary (but enthusiastic) users use the device, which can connect via Bluetooth to an iPhone or Android phone to get data connectivity.And one person in Cleveland, Ohio, was claiming to have a pair of the glasses – or at least to be part of the seeding programme – which were up for auction. According to the site, they would have been available some time between Monday 4 March and Thursday 7 March, and at the time of writing the bidding had hit $15,900, havingstartedat $1,500 on 21 February, and ramped up quickly in the past couple of days.The seller said (all errors are as written in the listing): "i've been selected as an early adapter for Google's upcoming release. You are buying a brand new unopened pair of Google's Project Glass glasses. I will be personally attending and picking up my pair in either Los Angeles, or New York at Google's Project Glass launch event, which will take place some time after Feburary 27th. As for what colors will actually be available, will vary, if i am offered a choice, I will choose the color of your choice (see listing picture for variants). My cost to buy my glasses is $1,500 (USD), so obviously thats where ive started the auction at. Project Glass will be shipped with Insurance at my expence, and signature upon delivery, so please use an address you can accept delivery in person."Whether the terms of Google's program will allow the participants to resell the devices – or whether they will instead remain the property of Google, which would make selling them problematic – isn't clear. But it suggests that there's already substantial interest in the company's new wearable computing product.
Cyber criminals have targeted government officials in more than 20 countries, including Ireland and Romania, in a complex online assault seen rarely since the turn of the millennium.The attack, dubbed "MiniDuke" by researchers, has infected government computers as recently as this week in an attempt to steal geopolitical intelligence, according to security experts.MiniDuke is the latest in a string of cyber attacks aimed at governments and other high-profile institutions, following revelations aboutthe suspected Chinese hackingof western defence and media organisations.Unusually, security researchers said there was no clear indication of who was behind the latest online attack.The cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab, which discovered MiniDuke, said the attackers had servers based in Panama and Turkey – but an examination of the code revealed no further clues about its origin.Goverments targeted include those of Ireland, Romania, Portugal, Belgium and the Czech Republic. The malware also compromised the computers of a prominent research foundation in Hungary, two thinktanks, and an unnamed healthcare provider in the US.Victims' computers were infected when they opened a cleverly disguised Adobe PDF attachment to an email. The document would be tailored specifically to its target, according to the researchers, as unsuspecting government victims are more likely to open an attachment that mentioned foreign policy, a human rights seminar, or Nato membership plans.Once it was opened, the MiniDuke malware would install itself on a victim's computer. It is not known what information the attackers are targeting. "It's currently unclear what the attackers were after. But the interest in these high-profile victims is quite obvious," said Vitali Kamluk, chief malware expert at Kaspersky Lab.Eugene Kaspersky, founder and chief executive of Kaspersky Lab, said MiniDuke had the potential to be "extremely dangerous" because it was an "elite, old-school" attack that used some 21st century tricks."This is a very unusual cyber attack," he said. "I remember this style of malicious programming from the end of the 1990s and the beginning of the 2000s. I wonder if these types of malware writers, who have been in hibernation for more than a decade, have suddenly awoken and joined the sophisticated group of threat actors active in the cyber world."
How much would you pay for a Twitter client? Does £87.48 (or $132.13) sound like a reasonable amount - when almost all of them are free, or cost a couple of pounds?But that's the price put on the Falcon Pro for Android, a Twitter client, after its developer Joaquim Vergès ran into Twitter's policy -introduced last August- of limiting the number of "tokens" (in effect, users of the app) available to new third-party clients to access the service to a maximum of 100,000. The app has beenon sale since November.The intention of raising the price isn't to make money from people; it's to actively discourage anyone from buying the app, while allowing those who already have to continue to use it and get updates.Though the 100,000-token limit is a problem for any Twitter app, because it puts a cap on success, the problem has been worsened, according to Vergès, by piracy of his app via Google Play's store. That has meant that the app - which used to be priced at $1 - was being "cracked", copied and shared or resold by others, but with each token activation still counting against Falcon Pro's total. In addition some of the tokens may have been used by people who did buy the original app, but then decided to get a refund within the 15-minute window that Google allows."As Twitter doesn't give any information or detail about the user tokens used, it's very hard to estimate exactly how many tokens are due to piracy or to inactive users," Vergès told the Guardian.Falcon Pro is the second paid-for app to have publicly run into Twitter's 100,000 limit. In November Tweetro, a free app for Windows 8,hit the same limit, and pulled it from the Windows 8 Store andrelaunched it as a paid app: "Had these restrictions not been imposed on us, we'd be more than happy to continue distributing the app freely as the exposure we've received from doing so has been amazing. Unfortunately, the circumstances have forced us to put a price tag on it to justify ongoing development. Of course, these restrictions also apply to Tweetro+ meaning we'll only ever be able to distribute it to a limited number of people," the developers wrote.Vergès told the Guardian that his app had appeared on one pirating site within hours of a new version being released, and that there seemed to be another "community black market" where users uploaded pirated APKs - the core of the app - and share them.Vergès says however that he's not worried by the piracy, even though it has been an issue for a number of paid app developers. "It's never been such a big issue for me until now, I believe that users that download a pirated version of my APK [app] probably wouldn't have bought it in the first place, either by choice or by obligation." Some countries still don't offer access to the paid version of the Google Play store, he points out."I write Android apps as a hobby," Vergès explains. "My day job provides enough that I don't have to worry about piracy that much. The real problem here is the limitation in tokens, which gets reached very quickly when it's not controlled. If I wasn't limited in users, piracy would not be so problematic. My real concern is having new buyers complain that they bought an unusable app."Falcon Pro remain on "sale" at its hugely high price so that existing users will be able to get updates - while discouraging potential new "buyers".Piracy in Google Play has been a concern to many big-name developers, but Vergès's experience is one of the first where it is thought to have driven an app into Twitter's tokens roadblock."I've learned recently that if you really want to protect your app, there's ways to prevent piracy by changing your business model (free app with in-app purchases seems to be the most efficient), or by providing critical information to enable your service via a private server. No protection is perfect, but it usually dissuades the common pirates who don't like to look at code," Vergès told the Guardian.Twitter has told Vergès that it won't extend the 100,000 limit for his app - the same approach that it took with Tweetro - despite getting more than 6,000 signatures at anonline petition.Now Vergès is considering radical action: resetting the app's Twitter keys, so that every user has to log in afresh. "Every user would have to re-login into the app to secure their 'user token', while I'd enforce security to delay pirates from using it as long as possible," he explains. "With that reset, I'm starting fresh with a new set of 100,000 user tokens, and I'm hoping this way it will free up all the unused tokens that are still active."He hopes that will allow him to keep selling the app - at the original price - for longer "and at least allow a few more new users to discover and enjoy the app, while I finish the latest features I want to implement to make the app complete."He adds though that "I'm not entirely sure of what will happen next. I can only hope that the token cap won't be reached again in a matter of days. I really wish Twitter would give developers some insight to be able to monitor the consumption of user tokens."
Google's plans to launch a music-streaming service would give the record industry a welcome boost on its path to recovery, according to a digital executive at Universal Music Group.Francis Keeling, global head of digital business at Universal Music Group, said Google's scale could turn millions more music listeners into paying subscribers.Google is understood to be in negotiations with major music labels about launching a streaming service, similar to Spotify, later this year.Speaking in London atthe launch of industry body IFPI's annual report on Tuesday, Keeling said: "We talk about for subscription services, the need to have a funnel. Google, with its hundreds of millions of users through search, YouTube with its more than 800 million users, arguably is the biggest funnel we could have."Clearly if we could get consumers into a legal funnel through that route and encourage them to subscription, that would have a very positive impact on the business."Googlelaunched a cloud-based music player in the US in 2011in a bid to compete directly with Apple's iTunes, which commands more than 60% of all digital sales. Last year, the service expanded to the UK, Germany and other European markets.A move into the fast-growing music-streaming market would be hugely significant for the industry. Google's influence in the smartphone market – its Android software is activated 1m times each day – would give the music player an advantage over rivals such as Deezer, Rdio and Spotify.Google has declined to confirm the detail of reports about its streaming player, including suggestions that its price plan would mirror the three smaller competitors. Deezer, Rdio and Spotify offer a free, ad-supported service alongside a £9.99-a-month subscription for premium users.But Google's streaming ambitions still have stumbling blocks to overcome. Music groups remain frustrated that Google and other search engines are slow to downgrade illegal-filesharing sites, which the industry claims are visited by a third of all internet users.However, Keeling said Universal, home to artists including Nicki Minaj and Justin Bieber, has a "great relationship" with Google."Google is a massive organisation with the many parts it operates, such as the search business and the device business and the music business with respect to YouTube and streaming," he said."Like all search engines, there is a problem; we're asking all search engines to prioritise legal services. We know that search engines are a primary route for consumers to be able to find music and hope all search engines will implement those changes."Online subscription services, including Spotify and Rdio, are expected to have contributed more than 10% of the music industry's digital revenue for the first time in 2012 – a sign of their growing influence. They are also being quickly adopted by music fans, as the number of paying subscribers leapt by 44% last year, to 20 million people globally.The continued rise of digital in 2012helped the music industry report its first lift in annual revenues since 1999, as the IFPI reported a 0.3% year-on-year increase to $16.5bn (£10.9bn). Digital music revenues were up 9% last year, to $5.6bn, thanks mainly to download stores.
Telefónica, owner of the O2 network in Britain, is developing technology that listens in on personal calls to draw up a psychological profile of a speaker according to their tone of voice.A team of engineers and psychologists in Telefónica's Barcelona research facility has built a linguistic analysis engine to collect and interpret data from phone conversations. The engine can construct personality traits with 80% accuracy, the Spanish group told a select audience in a presentation at the Mobile World Congress trade fair this&nbsp;week.The company – which has tested the technology using the voices of internal volunteers – said customers would be able to use the information to learn about themselves. Analysts briefed on the project said it could be of interest to advertisers, though Telefónica insisted it had no such plans.By tracking the location and duration of conversations, and recording spikes in activity, the "call graph" could also alert emergency services to natural disasters or terrorist attacks."This level of insight would clearly be of interest to advertisers and organisations in sectors such as tourism," said Eden Zoller, an analyst at research firm Ovum, who was briefed on the project.Telefónica is working with other mobile networks on ways to attract some of the billions spent by advertisers on platforms such as Google.In Britain, the company has teamed up with Vodafone and Everything Everywhere to create an advertising sales house and virtual wallet platform for mobile. Weve, as the joint venture is called, will build detailed profiles of mobile phone subscribers who opt in to the service in exchange for promotions such as discounts from retailers, and then sell this information to advertisers seeking to target specific audiences.Zoller cautioned: "Telefónica's linguistic analysis engine provides a deep level of granularity, even without listening to actual conversations, and we think that consumers will be very uncomfortable and resistant to the idea. Consumers are increasingly concerned about how their personal data is exploited, which in turn is reflected by mounting regulatory scrutiny."Telefónica said the technology analyses a person's tone of voice, rather than what they are saying, and that it would only be used with opt-in consent from the customers. People could use their data to see what kind of communicator they are, defining traits such as extrovert or introvert. Customers could also track their emotions over time, mapping mood changes from happy to sad, angry to calm, with the information presented in a Facebook-style timeline.A Telefónica spokesman said: "This is a proof of concept that our innovation lab has been working on to empower people with their own data to see what it says about them. There are no plans to commercialise this and absolutely no intention of offering this information to advertisers."
The Cell processor must have seemed like a good idea at the time. A complex, proprietary setup, with a central PowerPC core and eight independent co-processors, it was powerful and multifaceted, but difficult for under-pressure studios to get to grips with. The major problem was, the design ran against the prevailing trends in PC architecture and, in an era of multiplatform development, this meant developers rarely got the chance to push it to the maximum.Sony learned its lesson. Four years ago, when the company started R&amp;D on the console's follow-up, a different approach was decided on. While Cell was an internally devised project, co-developed with IBM and then presented to the development community, PlayStation 4 would take a more democratic approach. Just as it did with the original Playstation in the early 90s, Sony would go on the road, and ask studios what they wanted. Or at least that's the story hinted at during the PS4 launch event last Wednesday.But was that the reality? It seems so, according to Sony's first-party teams. "We've been very closely involved in the development of the machine," says Herman Hulst, the co-founder of Guerrilla Games. "We've had [PS4 system architect] Mark Cerny over several times. We got the entire group of core developers together and gave deep feedback on everything system-related. It's no longer designed in an Ivory tower somewhere in Tokyo, it's shared with us, with Naughty Dog, with Sony San Diego – and together we've built the machine. As Mark said at one point during the launch event, it's a console for gamers by gamers."And it turns out developers were pushing for two things: tighter, more seamless social connectivity, and a design philosophy more in line with modern PC innards, so that teams immediately understood and could work with the hardware. "This platform is great to work on because of the PC-like architecture," confirms Hulst. "It's very easy for the engineers to get their heads around. We had the game up and running very early. We've now had two and a half years of development time, which was about what I'd want for a title of this scope – and the team size is about 150 people, it's only a little bigger than Killzone 3. We've invested a lot in tools, and in various clever ways of having more and more detailed assets, but tools are the key - we're getting smarter."Killzone: Shadowfall game director Steven Ter Heide reckons that PS4's shift toward the PC, with its eight cores, AMD GPU and 8GB of memory, will lead to an accelerated rate of evolution – in other words, the gap between PS3 and PS4 games performance will widen much more quickly. "If you look at the transition between PlayStation 2 and PS3 and the launch titles on the latter machine, then look at the launch titles for PS4, I think you'll see a much more impressive leap in quality," he says. "I think the console and the ability for us to work with it has shown that we can make that leap much faster – we as developers are much closer to the insides of the thing."For Ubisoft it seems, the concerns were more about game design, and about how Sony would need to shift focus to appeal to a more connected generation. "We were pushing for social," says its chief executive Yves Guillemot. "The features that exist today with the PC and smartphones, we wanted to make sure we could use those elements on the console. The PS4 lets you have friends watching and helping you in the game – you'll be able to have an experience that's more connected all of the time. When you have millions of people playing something, achieving things together, you can introduce meta games – some really interesting features."It will mean community games rather than playing games alone. When my children play, they always have their friends popping up on screen, and they're pushed out of their single-player campaigns because they want to play with friends. Now we have the possibility of merging multi- and single-player components. If your friend pops up you can play the single experience, but within that, your friends can help you progress."Perhaps it's ambitions like this that inspired Sony to make its $380m bid for Gaikai, the cloud computing company whose technology is built into the PS4 infrastructure. It allows streaming access to game demos of course, but also (we're promised) more integral remote play connectivity with Vita – as well as the ability to take control of a friend's game, helping out if they're stuck. Seamless cross-platform communication with smartphone and tablet devices also seems to have been something Ubisoft was interested in – and something that Sony is set to deliver. Guillemot envisages a new era of collaborative gaming in which players draw non-gaming friends into specific group challenges. "You could have a game that requires certain resources, and to get them you have to perform actions that could only be achieved using smartphones or tablets," he says. "You could encourage friends to do these, and give them rewards on their own devices. It's an exchange."We could have big global meta games which require people with smartphone connections. You may have a game that requires language decryption so you could have specialists helping online – a whole community can work together. That's just an example, but many games could use communities in this way."According to Matt Southerns of Evolution, developers have also been involved in the design of the peripherals, especially the new Dual Shock, with its new touchpad and LED light array. Evolution apparently pushed for more exact tilt controls, so now the pad functions well as a steering wheel. "One of the most positive parts of the development was the work on the controller," he says. "We all had a secret meeting after E3 last summer and shared our own prototypes, we called it our science fair! There was lots of very open feedback and constructive criticism from a wide variety of studios. That was important because it meant we could build a controller that was a design classic but also embraced a new age."Steven Ter Heide talks about how Guerrilla's key concerns were the ergonomics – they suggested changes to the triggers, adding an outward curve for better tactile feel. "We also pushed for the headphone jack because we wanted to lower the threshold to multiplayer gaming," he says. "Everybody should be able to go online and chat. It ended up on there and it's awesome. These sounds like really simple features but it makes all the difference; and just those little tweaks to the indentations on the sticks – they're slightly raised so there's more positioning. It feels really nice."Guillemot hints that, alongside Watchdogs, Ubisoft is preparing to announce an original IP for next-gen machines this year, probably at E3. "Each time a new console arrives, you have the possibility to come in with new creative ideas – so we will try to bring in those new ideas," he says. "You'll know more in the future. The goal is to take advantage of what those consoles bring."This is vital. Both Sony and Microsoft have to produce hardware that will inspire developers as well as impress consumers: this is a much more complicated industry now; consoles are having to compete for development support with a whole host of devices – we're seeing a huge migration of small and mid-sized studios to PC and smartphone. They need to be seduced again – hence the consultation on architecture, and the placing of a developer, Mark Cerny, in a key position of power on the engineering side.We as gamers should remain sceptical until the machine arrives but despite a downbeat press response to last week's event, positivity is emerging from the development community. "We have a double revolution," says Guillemot. "The revolution of graphics, AI and animation, but we also this huge social revolution, of making sure the game understands who the player is and what they want – a more personalised experience."This is the future. If we manage to combine these elements, the industry is back on track for the next ten years."
The modern washing machine has a dozen or more cycles that no one has ever used. The "baby cycle", for example, aimed, presumably, at parents too lazy to wash their babies in the bath. Or, quoting now from a variety of machines, the "duvet", "sports", "bed&nbsp;and bath", "reduced creases", "allergy" and "freshen up" cycles. As in "I'm just going to hop in the washing&nbsp;machine and freshen up." (Yes, I realise it freshens up clothes, not people, but&nbsp;still I bet no one has ever used it&nbsp;non-ironically.)The washing machine is hardly alone in this; all our appliances have learned new tricks. Posh kettles heat our water to a choice of&nbsp;temperatures, tumble dryers offer a variety of "dryness levels" and even fairly basic toasters now proudly boast a "bagel function". At&nbsp;the top end of the market&nbsp;you can now buy a&nbsp;fridge with&nbsp;a&nbsp;built-in&nbsp;radio and voice&nbsp;recorder,&nbsp;proving we've reached&nbsp;the stage of combining&nbsp;functions entirely arbitrarily. It has all&nbsp;become a little overwhelming.Function inflation or "setting creep"&nbsp;– both of which are names I've&nbsp;just made up – is not, of course, confined to&nbsp;the kitchen. We can see it in our computers and cars, our phones and televisions, and, in its purest form, in the deranged one-upmanship of a top-of-the-range Swiss Army knife, complete with a "fish scaler", a "chisel"&nbsp;and a "pressurised ballpoint pen". But is the surreal image of a war fought using descaled fish in Switzerland really progress? Or are all these settings just&nbsp;getting in our way?"Fundamentally," says David Mattin, lead strategist attrendwatching.com, "I'd say function inflation is one consequence of the ever-increasing consumer thirst for the new – new products, services, brands, and yes, new functionality and&nbsp;features – and the way brands and&nbsp;businesses typically respond to&nbsp;that thirst.""Throwing more functions and features on to an essentially standard product is one easy way for consumer-facing brands to serve the consumer demand for new, more, and better; or at least claim they are serving it. It&nbsp;allows them to constantly iterate and relaunch essentially the same product with new features, and argue&nbsp;that their product is new."It is not without its benefits. Plenty&nbsp;of life-changing innovations, from the handy oven timer to the job-endangering snooze button, started out as added gimmicks on familiar household items. Many objects&nbsp;we now consider normal were&nbsp;once separate and unrelated: the&nbsp;clock radio, for example, or our DVD-playing games consoles.But, in the kitchen at least, things are moving a little fast, and rampant function hyperinflation has left many of us staring, uncomprehending, at a&nbsp;washing machine control wheel with&nbsp;more cycles than we have&nbsp;outfits&nbsp;to wash.In theory, all such functions must be a response to consumer demand: if a washing machine has a "freshen up" cycle, it is because in a focus group somewhere, or on some customer feedback survey, at least a couple of people piped up and said: "I want my clothes fresher, but not cleaned." Yet&nbsp;such demanding shoppers are in fact a small minority: research shows that 70% of people use the same wash cycle almost every time, and nearly half of us are put off by complex multi-setting controls."The innovation is obviously being driven by manufacturers' desire to add value and to differentiate themselves," says analyst Neil Mason, head of retail research at market research company Mintel. "But from a consumer's point of view, what they want is convenience and simplicity. When you run into trouble is when you add all these extra functions and consumers just get perplexed as to how to actually use them."New settings clearly continue to be seen as an easy road to higher sales. Yet, as Mattin points out, some of the most successful products on the market "succeeded specifically because they did not succumb to function inflation, indeed they made a virtue out of having very few&nbsp;functions".Though Apple's app store is now a fast-moving bastion of user-controlled function inflation, the iPhone and iPad's predecessor began life as a reaction against it. "The iPod," says Mattin, "is a now-legendary example of&nbsp;&nbsp;a tech product that was beautiful in its simplicity. Compare earlier MP3 players, laden with various buttons and switches and features, with the iPod's click wheel.""There's good evidence," he argues, "that the marketplace rewards designers who edit a product down until it does just what it should, and no more. But that takes designers of genius. Mediocre designers – that is, 90% of them – just throw more and more functionality at&nbsp;consumers and&nbsp;see what sticks."Perhaps, then, despite the current trend, the household of the future will be free of such baffling settings, switches and dials. The ideal household gadget – be it a washer, dryer or toaster – may one day sport a single, simple button marked "Sort this stuff out for me, will you?" The machines can work out for themselves when, if ever, we merely want our clothes freshened up.Appliances with too much scienceBreville VTT377 4 Slice ToasterSix "toast settings", "independent slot operation", "high-lift", "cancel", "defrost" and "reheat" functions, plus "variable browning" and "illuminated controls". They might as well have called it a toastiere.Bosch TWK8631GB Styline KettleHeats water to your choice of 70°C (white tea), 80°C (green tea), 90°C (hot chocolate or coffee) or a familiar 100°C (boiling). Also beeps at you officiously at the beginning and end of its cycles.Bush WQP8-9347 Built-In DishwasherFive wash programmes, four temperature settings and "a residual heat drying system". Sounds like more hassle to learn, load, configure and unload than just washing the dirty dishes yourself.Vax Zoom Family and Pet Bagless Cylinder Vacuum CleanerThe ridiculous name aside, this £150 monument to excessive disposable income includes a "crevice tool", "dusting brush", "turbo tool", "stretch hose" and "flexi crevice tool". You know, for cleaning your flexi-crevices. Which, obviously, aren't a thing.Hotpoint AQ113D697I White Washing MachineAlthough by current standards this model's total of 16 wash programmes is relatively modest, the sheer range of them is baffling. Boasts both the aforementioned "Baby" and "Freshen Up" cycles, as well as "Duvet", "Allergy Care" and "Bed and Bath".
Hello there Wednesday, how are you?
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy Google Glass is fascinating; Chromebook Pixel just puzzling &gt;&gt; Chicago Sun-TimesAndy Ihnatko:This was a good week for the Glass project. I still don't know that Google has a viable product on their hands. But it's certainly no longer a pie-in-the-sky concept. The mockery that Glass received from some commentators during its first announcement in April of last year might have been understandable...but now it seems embarrassingly premature.Google had something else to talk about last week, though. I can't remember a product that's baffled me harder or more roughly than Google's new Chromebook Pixel…I talked to Google about the Pixel on launch day, asking some of the dumbest and most basic questions I've ever dared ask, but I'm still profoundly confused. Today, the Pixel seems to be serving a customer who doesn't exist. Even a power Chromebook user, I reckon, would be more likely to buy a $1300 Windows notebook and simply run webapps in the Chrome browser, right?No, the new iOS 6.1 lock screen bypass bug does not allow access to your iPhone's file system &gt;&gt; The Next WebMatt Panzarino:Earlier today, word began getting around that there was anew way to bypass the iOS 6.1 lock screenand that this one was even worse, allowing full access to the user portion of the file system. Well, that's not exactly true, as we've uncovered with some simple tests.The lock screen bug does in fact exist, and it works as advertised, bypassing the lock and bringing you to a blank black screen with just the status bar. But it allows you no access to anything, not pictures, not contacts and certainly not the file system.Twoways to bypass the lock screen?The iTunes Value Structure &gt;&gt; asymcoNote 2: My estimate for the iTunes Music payments to publishers is equivalent to about 60% of total [recorded] industry revenues.BlackBerry threat? Pentagon to open networks to Apple, Google &gt;&gt; Financial PostThe Pentagon said it wants employees to have the flexibility to use commercial products on classified and unclassified networks. It plans to create a military mobile applications store and hire a contractor to build a system that may eventually handle as many as 8m devices."This is not simply about embracing the newest technology –- it is about keeping the department's workforce relevant in an era when information accessibility and cybersecurity play a critical role in mission success," Teri Takai, the department's chief information officer, said in a statement.BlackBerry shares fell. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Science and gun violence: why is the research so weak? &gt;&gt; Boing BoingMeanwhile, outside the filter bubble...Gun violence research suffers from a lack of consistently recorded data and, for that matter, a lack of data, in general. As John Pepper, associate economics professor at The University of Virginia and the study director on the 2004 report, put it, "The data are just terrible."Worse, critics say the methods used to analyze that data are also deeply flawed in many cases. What you end up with, researchers told me, is a field where key pieces of the puzzle are missing entirely and where multiple scientists are reaching wildly different conclusions from the exact same data sets. For instance, because of those differences in the definition of "defensive gun use" some researchers will tell you that Americans use a gun to defend themselves something like 1.5 million times every year. Others say it happens maybe 200,000 times annually.Part one of a series. Read.What has been the internal reaction at Yahoo to Marissa Mayer's no work from home policy? &gt;&gt; QuoraBased on this titanic list of three, possibly four, Yahoos, the answer is: positive.The CCIA and RIM tell the FTC banning injunctions for FRAND patents can make smartphone wars worse &gt;&gt; GroklawThe FTC is now suggesting that companies that own standards-essential patents and offer them under FRAND terms, like Motorola, should not be allowed to seek injunctions regarding those kinds of patents except in the most extreme of circumstances. But for decades, they had those property rights, the right to seek injunctive relief. How can a government agency just show up and take those traditional rights away by fiat, without reasonable compensation? That's not America, to me. I don't even like software patents, but as long as the patent system exists, you want it to be fair. And this just feels wrong.This seems to be a case of Groklaw deciding which side it likes, and tailoring its thinking to go along with it. The reason to oppose injunctions on standards-essential patents (SEPs) - which Google (via Motorola) and Samsung own lots of - is that it would allow the owners of those SEPs to shut rivals who need to meet standards out of the marketplace, simply by withdrawing the rival's permission to use those patents. Being part of a standard requires licensing to all comers. (The idea that stopping injunctions over SEPs would make things worse is obvious nonsense. Nor is the FTC saying that SEP injunctions aren't ever allowed. )Apple to FTC: Samsung and Google lose most of their cases over declared-essential patents &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsApple'sletterraises the very important point (starting on page 6) that most patents that are declared essential to a standard (by their holders, typically without any independent verification of essentiality) actually aren't - and if someone wants to get paid for an allegedly standard-essential patent, a defendant must have the right to challenge the validity of the patent and its essentiality in court without having to pay for a portfolio license based on an arbitrated or court-determined value of an unverified portfolio. While the proposed consent decree generally mentions that challenges to validity, essentiality and infringement allegations don't make a company an unwilling licensee, avery recent InterDigital filing in lawsuits targeting Huawei and ZTEshows that some SEP owners nevertheless argue that they should receive royalties even without having to prove that their asserted patents are valid and actually used by an implementer of the standard in question.Something of a new wrinkle that many of these claimed "standards-essential" patents actually aren't. Shouldn't there be a clear register of such things? And if not, why not?On bias &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansApple Maps is a fiasco, but it is fundamentally a secondary issue and there is no evidence it affects sales. The same is true of skeumorphism, or 'openness' or a dozen other issues that people talk about. What matters is the addressable market. Criticisms of Apple product, by and large, do not matter so long as they do not affect sales, and there is no evidence that they do, to any material degree. Hence, they do not really interest me, regardless of whether I personally agree with them, as a user of the product.Android is different. Android does not really face an addressable market question. 1.7bn phones will be sold this year, perhaps a little more, and half will be smartphones, and almost all of those that are sold for less than $400 will run Android. In a couple of years, if nothing changes, Android will be selling a billion units a year or more.The important questions, therefore, are within Android: they are product questions. Something like a third of unit sales are in China and have little access to Google services. What does that mean? Another third to a half of units are sold by Samsung, and all the other branded Android OEMs are struggling. Android is fragmented, Android is very weak in apps for tablets, and so on, and so on. What do all these variations mean? Android is many different things in a way that the iPhone is not, and understanding those variations makes up the analytical challenge.The bias is a cognitive one, so most people aren't aware they suffer from it.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
"Open source" operating systems are the siren call of the internet. For years, we were promised, Linux was going to be the Next Big Thing on the desktop; the tired old empires of Windows and MacOS were going to be pushed aside, and everyone was going to embrace Linux (though quite which distro wasn't clear). From infants to grannies, they would all see the light, and install software that was built with the user in mind - as long as the user was someone who could hold the idea of the concentric circles of file ownership (root/wheel/std) in their head, and felt happy typing "chmod 644" from time to time if things got ticklish.And we all know how that worked out. But why didn't Linux on the desktop work out? Two things: it never had a hardware champion; and it was never easy enough to use. (I tried a few distros myself, before I decided life was too short.)Yet here we are again, this time in the mobile space, where two chunks of news in the past 48 hours have gotten the open source sirens singing again. Once again, people are being lured towards a rocky demise.First, and smallest, is LG buying the rights to chunks of webOS, once the software that powered Palm's Pre phones, then which powered HP's TouchPad tablet, then which got bundled into the boot and, in December 2011,taken up into the mountains and set free.Despite the fevered imaginings of a fair number at the time, there was simply no chance that webOS was going to go anywhere without direct help from HP; and HP wasn't going to give it that help, since it had plenty of troubles of its own.LG's buy: why?Now, LG is buying some of webOS.From The Verge:According to HP COO Bill Veghte, LG will acquire the source code, documentation, websites, and team behind the client side of webOS, but HP will retain the entire cloud services division — that's the App Catalog, updating system, and other backend services that interact with webOS. "We see this as an opportunity to broaden our reach in delivering services to customers on a variety of plaforms," said Veghte. Most importantly, HP sees an opportunity to bring an app-store-like experience to large business customers who use cloud-based apps.LG has indicated that it will be using webOS in its Smart TV line (which, in passing, suggests that Google's hopes of having a multi-manufacturer-pronged assault on the living room with Google TV are being chipped away; Samsung has gone its own way, Sony offers a mixture of Google and its own smart TV offerings, and now it looks like LG isn't exactly all-in). Though that might, in time, become something that it uses on phones or tablets, you'd be crazy to bet on it. LG is smart enough to know that TVs are a world away from phones and tablets, both in terms of the user interaction experience, and the demands that they make for user acceptance.These days, if you can't tout thousands of apps for your smartphone platform, you're toast. But on a TV, you don't need thousands of apps. Indeed, theevidence seems to bethat most people (at least in the west) who have smart TVs that can run apps don't do anything with those apps, even if they get as far as plumbing them into the internet. As the headline on the NPD research linked in that sentence says, "Internet Connected TVs Are Used To Watch TV, And That's About All".And even while webOS is a wonderful operating system (honest, it is), the question of its usefulness on a smart TV remains open. It's very much a touch-oriented product, and there's no likelihood that we will be swiping our TVs any time soon. So in that sense, LG's purchase is a puzzle. Even more so as HP is keeping hold of the patents, and LG is just licensing them.Firefox.. OS?But the siren song of open source OSs becomes deafening when you look at the other announcement to come out of Mobile World Congress, in which Mozilla is touting its Firefox OS as the anathema to the world's ills - or at least those afflicting the smartphone industry.What does Moziila chief executive Gary Kovacs think is going to be the unique selling point of the Firefox OS phones that he expects to see in 2014? "Our goal is to level the playing field and usher in an explosion of content and services that will meet the diverse needs of the next two billion people online," hesaid in Barcelona, adding "We're not trying to get in the middle of an operating system fight; what we are trying to do is be the catalyst to drive more development around the open web."Tough luck, Mr Kovacs, because you have in fact pitched yourself right into that fight. He says that he only wants to be a third ecosystem - but jockeying with some determination for that spot are BlackBerry and Nokia, for both of whom the price of failing to come third could be extinction. For either of them, even the best version of not being the third ecosystem would mean an existence in the twilight, serving a small audience and always at the mercy of user or carrier indifference.The problem for Firefox OS is that it doesn't have a dedicated hardware backer. Sure, Sony has said that it will make some phones using it. ZTE and Alcatel say they will build hardware that will run it. And Kovacs points to the fact that Firefox OS will run HTML5 apps - not "native" apps (in the sense that iOS or Android apps run natively). That might put a questionmark over whether, by some analysts' measure, the FFOS phone is truly a "smartphone", since their definition for that includes "running apps on a native API". (That's why Gartner and IDC don't class Nokia's Asha phones as smartphones.)But here's the thing. ZTE, Alcatel, Sony, and whoever else steps up to stuff FFOS on a phone will aways have one eye on the profit side. Viewed in one way, it's a miracle that Android got anywhere; in 2007, when the Open Handset Alliance got started, there were multiple handset manufacturers who were each waiting for the other to jump into the water, like penguins on an ice floe wondering if there might be a killer whale there. For penguins read handset makers, for killer whale read losses.How Android wonSo how did Android succeed? Three things. First, Google get a vibrant app ecosystem going even before there was a single phone: it had competitions for apps, with a $10m fund to seed developer ideas. By April 2008 there were almost 2,000 Android applications; two-third came from outside the US. Among the offerings: photo-enhanced driving, on-the-fly party mashups with maps, maintaining passive surveillance on your family's whereabouts. (Some things never change.) Second, it was able to go to Verizon, which was looking enviously at how AT&amp;T was able to offer the iPhone, and suggest that Android phones - when they came along - could be the answer to that competitive challenge. And third, it wasGoogle- the gigantic search-engine-and-everything-else company with the international reputation. If Google was doing a new generation of smartphone software (and if Apple had validated the idea), then it looked like a good deal for everyone. And handset manufacturers were eager to find an alternative to Microsoft.Those conditions don't pertain today. Android is gigantic - some version of it might be on a billion phones this year - meaning there's no obvious need for another open source OS. What, after all, is FFOS actually going todothat Android doesn't, or that iOS or Windows Phone or BlackBerry can't? Yes, we've heard that the target isn't the west, but the developing world; that still doesn't explain why a Chinese handset manufacturer would deploy FFOS rather than Android, whether the Google version or a forked one that could connect to a local app store. The idea that FFOS's "HTML5 app" concept gives it an advantage is nonsense; any phone with a browser can run HTML5 apps. (Though creakily, because no matter how good they are, they have a layer of abstraction from the phone's native code in a way that a native app doesn't: you're looking at an app running in a browser running in a code layer, rather than an app running in a code layer.)Even worse, FFOS is at an immediate competitive disadvantage because the principal browser on smartphones now is based on WebKit. Chrome uses it, MobileSafari uses it, BlackBerry uses it, and Opera uses it too now. That leaves only Internet Explorer on Windows Phone standing alone. Developers writing HTML5 apps will naturally write for compatibility with WebKit, which is always going to behave slightly differently from Firefox's Gecko rendering engine. For FFOS's sake, you have to hope the differences aren't big.But more to the point, why would a carrier try to sell a FFOS phone rather than an Android phone, or a Nokia Asha phone? We're talking about the low-end market here, where handsets will cost around $50. Given that Mozilla has suggested that the FFOS phones will cost about $100 (which for developing markets begins to sound like upscale pre-pay pricing), it doesn't make sense. I'm with Benedict Evans of Enders Analysis on this when he says on his blog"I generally have little faith in industry-wide initiatives in mobile; I have none at all in this one."Magical thinkingThat's the trouble with the magical thinking that often attaches to open source projects. Making webOS open source didn't solve its problems; it simply shoved them off into a siding. Having an open source mobile OS didn't guarantee Android's success; the efforts of Google, and the timing in the market, did that. (Symbian succeeded in a similar way years before, and then failed when Nokia couldn't lead its evolution quickly enough.) Yes, WebKit is open source - but its development is being driven by a number of companies, including Apple and Google, which are very determined to make it effective.Perhaps for that reason, people have high expectations for the Ubuntu OS and phone, with its fabulously complex array of gestures for control. Bad news, dreamers: it's going to fail in the market too if Canonical attempts to market it as a hardware-software combination - that is, sells Ubuntu phones at retail.Quite apart from the trickiness of learning gesture-based interfaces - never easy - and despite the apparent popularity of the Ubuntu OS (as evidenced by the number of people reading the story about it on news sites), the reality is all about logistics. Those people who are excited about the Ubuntu phone live in geographically dispersed areas. The only effective way to reach them is by selling the phone online; if you try to put it in shops, you'll hardly ever have it in the right ones.And selling phones online? It's a mug's game. It's almost impossible to get the right numbers - sizing demand, especially for a first-time product, is very difficult indeed. Just ask Google abouthandling sales of the Nexus 4(which wasn't even its first attempt at selling a phone online; ittried that back in 2009/10 with the Nexus One.)So some might see Firefox OS as the Next Big Thing. But that's just the sirens singing. It'll end up on the rocks.
Researchers at the security company Symantec have discovered an early version of the "Stuxnet" computer virus that was used to attack nuclear reprocessing plants in Iran, in what they say is a "missing link" dating back to 2005.The discovery means that the US and Israel, who are believed to have jointly developed the software in order to carry out an almost undetectable attack on Iran's nuclear bomb-making ambitions, were working on the scheme long before it came to public notice – and that development of Stuxnet, and its forerunner, began under the presidency of George W Bush, rather than being a scheme hatched during Barack Obama's first term.The older version of the virus, dubbed "Stuxnet 0.5" – to distinguish it from the "1.0" version – also targeted control systems in Iran's Natanz enrichment facility, the researchers said."Stuxnet 0.5 was submitted to a malware scanning service in November 2007 and could have begun operation as early as November 2005," Symantec notes in a report. It may have been submitted to see whether Symantec's defences would recognise it as malware – in which case it would have been useless. One key to Stuxnet's success was that it was not detected by conventional antivirus systems used in corporate and state computer systems.The success of Stuxnet – in both forms – is reckoned to have averted a planned military strike by Israel against Iran's reprocessing efforts in 2011. During 2010 it had seemed increasingly likely that Israeli jets might target the heavily-armoured plant to thwart Iran's nuclear ambitions.But the computer virus, one of the most visible forms of a cyberwar that is increasingly raging between nation states, made that unnecessary, and is reckoned to have put Iran's plans back by years.The1.0 version of Stuxnetis reckoned to have infected Iranian computers after being copied onto USB sticks which were left in locations in India and Iran known to be used by Iranian nuclear scientists and their contacts. It then spread into computer systems and took over the connected Siemens control systems, spinning centrifuges to dangerous speeds in order to damage the systems.The 0.5 version, by contrast, was transmitted as part of an infected control archive for specific Siemens systems used for uranium enrichment. Once active, it infected the network and control systems and closed off valves, a move that would cause serious damage to the centrifuges and the enrichment system. It also recorded data about the system it was on, which it would send back over the internet to a set of "command and control" servers – which at the time had been faked to look like a group of internet advertising agencies created in 2005, with names such as smartclick.org and best-advertising.net, and all bearing the same phrase on the front: "Believe What the Mind Can Dream." (They have since been adopted by other companies, or closed.)"The 0.5 version was a mixture of sabotage and espionage – affecting the valves and reporting back," said Sian John, Symantec's director of security strategy for UK and Ireland Enterprise. "This really goes to show that with the right impact and amount of research, these groups can create very targeted attacks."
Parents who have been shocked to find their children have run up massive bills – some of up to $1,400 – by making "in-app purchases" on their Apple iPhone or iPad will get cash or an iTunes Store credit as part of a settlement that could cost the company up to $100m (£66m).The move would settle a lawsuit filed in 2011 by five parents in California who complained that Apple hadn't made it clear that "free" apps downloaded from the App Store could also include paid-for extras, which wouldn't necessarily require the child to provide the parent's Store password. As many as 23 million people could receive compensation, the settlement document suggests.The lawsuit alleged that "Apple failed to adequately disclose that third-party game apps, largely available for free and rated as containing content suitable for children, contained the ability to make in-app purchases."Now the company is offering a settlement – agreed by the plaintiffs – in which people who can show that a minor made an in-app purchase (IAP) can claim either iTunes Store credits, or cash settlements in cases where parents say the cost of purchases exceeded $30. The settlement is understood to apply only to the US.In February 2011, the US federal trade commission said it waslaunching an inquiry into IAPsbecause of concerns that children were playing games: one game that came in for particularly criticism was Capcom's game Smurfs' Village, in which children were encouraged to buy $99 barrels of Smurfberries – which really did cost $99 to parents with the account.IAPs, and the protections around them, have been controversial topics in the App Store since the capability was introduced to iOS, the mobile software that runs the iPhone and iPad, in 2009. App developers discovered that they could be used to dramatically raise the amount of money that could be raised from an app – because rather than paying the full amount upfront, users would spread payments as they played the game by making small purchases that quickly added up.Because the password was not required inside the game, parents were frequently unaware that their children were buying "items", the cost of which was being added to their iTunes Store bill. Later changes by Apple introduced a timeout function for the password, so that users would have to re-enter it during games to make purchases, and subsequently an absolute requirement – as a preference – to require a password for any IAP.In a report published in December 2012, theFTC was criticalof the lack of clear information about advertising and IAPs in games aimed at children. "The report strongly urges all entities in the mobile app industry – including app stores, app developers, and third parties providing services within the apps – to accelerate efforts to ensure that parents have the key information they need to make decisions about the apps they download for their children."A US court has to approve theproposed settlement, which will be heard on Friday 1 March.Apple had not responded to a request for comment by the time of publication.
Nintendo has announced that it will be launching its scaled-downWii Miniconsole in the UK on 22 March. It's effectively the classic Wii, slightly reduced in size and coloured black with a red band. No price has been confirmed as yet, but when the product was launched in Canada last November, it retailed at $99. A price point of between £70-80 is expected.To cut down on costs, the Wii's internet capacity has been removed, but the console does come with a shiny red Wii Remote Plus and a red Nunchuk controller. Nintendo has also added a selection of four new titles to its budget Nintendo Selects range of games: Mario Party 8, Wii Sports Resort, Mario Power Tennis and Super Paper Mario.Despite it's rather striking looks and low price, the Wii Mini received a mixed response from critics when initially announced, with Eurogamer providinga particularly damning review. Nevertheless, Nintendo is no doubt hopeful it can capture a whole new demographic of ultra-casual family gamers who have so far resisted the charms of the 100m-selling machine.
Kim Dotcom, the German-born internet entrepreneur fighting extradition from New Zealand over US claims of "criminal" copyright infringement, says he plans to launch an end-to-end encrypted email service to go with his Mega encrypted file storage offering.Speaking from New Zealand via a Skype video link to London, Dotcom said that his new Mega file storage service whichlaunched in Januarynow has more than 3 million registered users who have stored a total of 125m files in the first month of operation."It took [US cloud storage company] Dropbox two years to achieve that," Dotcom, 39, said. "We can see really high demand for this storage."Next, he said, "we're going to extend this to secure email which is fully encrypted so that you won't have to worry that a government or internet service provider will be looking at your email."Dotcom is trying to overturn demands by the US government for him to be extradited from New Zealand, where he lives with his wife and children, to the US to face criminal charges relating to the operation of his MegaUpload service – which was shut down in January 2012 when New Zealand police arrested him and other staff from the company.At the time, Dotcom's assets were seized – and he said on Tuesday that he is still struggling to have them unfrozen, meaning that his legal team has gone unpaid for the past year. "I have the best legal team money can't buy," he said.He accused the US government of "hacking its law" by ignoring its own legislation. He said that the MegaUpload service, which allowed people to upload, share and stream files, had obeyed the US's Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA): "the DMCA was supposed to protect us and give us safe harbour" if users uploaded copyrighted files. "But they went after that and took us down."But speaking in London on Tuesday, Frances Moore, the chief executive of the IFPI which represents record labels internationally, said that the move against MegaUpload had had a positive effect: "Action by governments and courts have had a major impact and cloud locker services have seen a major reduction in traffic since the action against Kim Dotcom."Dotcom said be believed that Aaron Swartz, the internet activist who committed suicide ahead of a trial hearing in which a state prosecutor was seeking a jail term for the copying of files from the JSTOR scientific service, had become a "political target" after helping organise opposition to the Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa) early in 2012. "If you look at the charges against this young genius, they were a complete overreach of the law," he said. "JSTOR said there was nothing wrong. I think there was a political desire to destroy the life of this young man."Dotcom said that the MegaUpload service had been heading for a stock market flotation six months after the raid that closed it, and rubbished suggestions by the US government that MegaUpload was a "criminal enterprise". "I don't know of any examples of any criminal organisation that had ambitions to be a public company," he said.Dotcom – formerly known as Kim Schmitz – has previously run foul of financial authorities over his stock market dealings with other companies. In 2001 he bought €375,000 worth of shares in Letsbuyit.com, a near-bankrupt Swedish collective buying business, and said he would put €50m into it. That saw the shares jump in value, and he sold the shares at a €1.5m profit. He was subsequently convicted in 2002 of embezzlement.In January 2011 he was fined HK$8,000 by the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission for failing to declare a shareholding in various companies there, but by that time had been granted residency in New Zealand – where documents obtained by the Associated Press in March 2012 showed immigration officials felt the "economic contribution" he could make to New Zealand outweighed "negative aspects" from his previous convictions.
Viber, the free mobile phone calls and messaging application downloaded by 150 million users worldwide, has called on Vodafone to stop disrupting its service.By routing calls via the internet at no cost to the user,Viberis seen as a threat to revenues by some mobile phone networks and has been blocked in Syria, Iran and Lebanon. Vodafone customers around the world, including the UK, Ireland, Hungary and Spain, have complained of service outages. It is understood Vodafone's pay-as-you-go subscribers are most affected, rather than those on monthly contracts."Blocking Viber is really easy, and every operator knows that," said the company's founder Talmon Marco. "We don't get blocked in the UK but we do see service disruptions particularly by Vodafone. Our bandwidth gets limited. We urge Vodafone not to throttle our service."Marco is hoping to persuade Vodafone to allow full access to Viber, which is adding 500,000 new users a day and now carries 3bn minutes of calls and 12bn text messages every month.Vodafone responded that it did not target particular services, but that restrictions were enforced on internet connections when the network was overloaded. A spokesman said: "We manage traffic when the network is congested so that there is not impact on emergency services".Not every network has been hostile. Viber announced its first partnership with a telecoms group at the Mobile World Congress trade show in Barcelona on Tuesday. Customers of Indonesia's Axis network who do not want to sign up for a full internet package will be offered a Viber subscription for a small monthly charge.That is a model pioneered by BlackBerry for its BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) service and now being adopted by Facebook, which on Monday announced partnerships with over 18 networks in 14 countries. Subscribers will be able to use its mobile messaging service for free or at a discount without having to buy a data service alongside their calls and text package.Many in the telecoms sector still see Facebook and other digital firms like Google as a threat, arguing that they are earning fortunes without having to invest a penny in building the networks needed to deliver their services to consumers.But the partnerships announced this week suggest a softening of that stance, with digital and telecoms companies working together to bring users to the internet in developing markets."Networks are increasingly understanding the way for them to differentiate is by partnering with guys like us," said Marco. "It helps accelerate the move to data."Founded by Israeli entrepreneurs, Viber now employs 120 people, most of them engineers, based in Israel, Belarus and as of last month, China. As international as its users – Viber is popular in Ireland, South-East Asia and the US – the company itself is headquartered in Cyprus.Explaining the choice of headquarters, Marco, who lived in London for two years, said: "Cyprus is a nice place, beautiful weather, nice fish. Tax breaks never hurt."Financed entirely by friends and family, Viber has yet to seek funding from venture capital, or to make any revenues.Marco said the company would begin to generate revenues this year, when it starts to charge for extras. These could include services such as its "stickers" – cartoon-style emoticons that are a step up from the smiley faces some users like to pin to their emails.According to Marco, such innovations are nearly impossible for mobile networks. The text message took 10 years to develop and has barely changed since it was introduced in 1992. Part of the reason is the length of time it takes for the world's hundreds of networks to agree common standards so that calls can be connected and texts sent and received."Consumers want innovation," he said. "Carriers want innovation, but they have to deliver inter-operability – and if you have inter-operability, you can't deliver innovation. For carriers the way to innovate is by working with guys like us and our competitors.Viber is fast emerging as a competitor to Skype, which has 250 million active monthly users but will not disclose how many of them are on mobile phones. Developed as an answer to the original internet phone, which is now owned by Microsoft, Viber bills itself as a much simpler service to install and use.Unlike Skype, it can prompt a user's phone to ring even when the Viber app is not switched on, meaning more connections are likely to be answered, while installation is simpler and quicker. It uses high definition sound, and installation is simpler and quicker than on Skype.Launched using only world of mouth in December 2010, Viber made its debut on the Israeli iPhone app store and by the time it was released globally three weeks later was adding thousands of users per day.It is now present on at least seven mobile phone operating systems, including Android, and will announced further partnerships with mobile networks over the coming months. These partnerships will not generate income for now, but Marco is determined 2013 will be the year Viber transforms from a "project" to a business: "When we see revenues we can call ourselves a business."
The problem with augmented reality is its perception as digital gimmickry: a technology in search of a useful application that's often hijacked for novelty purposes.AR can make cartoon monsters jump out of crisp packets or make tweets float in the air above the place they were posted from, but there's little evidence that people enjoy this half as much as brands looking for an easy PR win, or AR technologists.The situation is improving, though. There are signs of AR having real potential for education, children's entertainment, interactive print and other areas; Nokia is making a big push with its LiveSight technology, and Google's Project Glass is attracting the futurists with its promise of less-clunky augmented eyewear.AR has a prominent spot on Qualcomm's stand at Mobile World Congress courtesy of itsVuforiaplatform, which competes for the attention of app developers and brands with the likes ofAurasmaandBlippar.Julian Harris, senior business development manager at Qualcomm, told me that Vuforia now has 45k registered developers and more than 100k downloads of its software development kit (SDK).More importantly – because developers tend to sign up for all the different augmented reality SDKs to try them out – more than 3k apps have been published using Vuforia, with 40 of those passing the 100k downloads milestone."It's meaningful stuff," said Harris, whisking me through demos of a selection of commercial third-party apps – a contrast to briefings in the early days of Vuforia, when Qualcomm was making its own prototype apps to show off what developers and brands could do, if they adopted the platform.The demos at MWC include Big Bird's Words – a Sesame Street app that sends children off to scan specific words in the real world; a Lego augmented reality catalogue;Anatomy 4Dwith its full-body anatomical model;Disney's Princess Royal Ballapp which gets children to build a virtual carriage then scan packaging to see it in the real world;Ballard Designs' interior design catalogue; and an issue of Maxim that maps a video of its cover-model to the cover when scanned with the magazine's app.Oh, andOm Nom: Candy Flick, an augmented reality game developed by ZeptoLab and based on its popular Cut the Rope games, which was released in early 2013.It's notable how many of the demos are aimed at children, who in my experience are more thrilled than sceptical about augmented reality when it's done well – even for novelty purposes. Harris agrees, citing another high-profile Vuforia-powered app:James May's Science Stories, released in 2012 by London's Science Museum."After James May's Science Stories, my son points my phone at things and says 'Where's the little man Daddy?'," says Harris."This technology is just par for the course with him, and it's this fusion between the physical and digital that we're calling 'digital sixth sense'. Kids are going to be demanding this level of interaction."He's bullish about the prospects for AR aimed at adults, though. "Augmented reality as a technology is starting to mature, and people are taking fuller and better advantage of it," says Harris."It's also being used as a channel for product information, in ways that you couldn't possibly articulate in a printed manual or brochure."This story was amended on 27 February 2013 after Blippar contacted The Guardian to clarify that while it has beta-trialled Qualcomm's Vuforia Cloud, the live Blippar platform is not powered by the technology.
Tuesday!
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamKantar Worldpanel: Android and Verizon back on top In US smartphone sales, Android at nearly 50% of sales &gt;&gt; TechCrunchAndroid, Kantar says, took 49.4% of smartphone sales, a growth of 6.4% points over the same period last year. Apple's 45.9% of sales was 4.7% points down one year ago. It sources these numbers by extrapolating from data collected from 240,000 consumers annually.And when you add those two numbers together you can see how ridiculously big the challenge is for others to get a look in. No. 3, Windows Phone, just barely breaks 3% of sales, although that's an improvement on 2.1% last year.Also notable: Windows Phone now leads BlackBerry, which was at 0.9% of sales. Can BB10 make a difference? (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Firefox Mobile &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansAmongst many other things, today I went to the Firefox stand at MWC. It was very full of excited people talking about their new venture with some of the leading mobile operators to launch a new phone OS, aimed at the tier just below 'real' smartphones. There was much talk of openness and other ideologically correct things, and none at all about any consumer benefits. I did hear someone from Mozilla say that 'Firefox is a great consumer brand', though, which is a pretty questionable claim: the target consumers would be pushed to name ANY browser, let alone Firefox. There is a reference phone from ZTE (and also one from Alcatel I haven't seen yet): the software is slow and not especially elegant, and the device is targeted to cost $100.50 yards away there is a half-empty stand from Haier, a second-tier Chinese OEM. Their W619 is a 2G android smartphone running Android 4, with 2 SIM slots, a 3.5" screen and an MTK chipset. It is very solid and the UI is perfectly fluid. The wholesale price is $50: 3G versions are $75.Quite a punchline too.Apple supplier penalized for polluting nearby river in China &gt;&gt; ComputerworldAn Apple supplier known for making iPads has been penalized by Chinese authorities for turning a nearby river in Shanghai "white" after dumping pollutants during the nation's Spring Festival holiday.The supplier, RiTeng Computer Accessory, had wrongfully dumped waste water used for cleaning processes due to suspected staff negligence, according to a Friday statement from a parent company.The water couldn't be used for watering crops; the waste killed all the shellfish. RiTeng also assembles for HP, Dell and Asus; it has had industrial accidents before, including explosions. Basically, China needs to take tough action against polluters like this.Three reasons I still have a BlackBerry and won't switch &gt;&gt; ForbesBoiled down, they are: (1) BBM, even though he says that WhatsApp actually does all he needs; (2) a physical keyboard, unlike the one on his last BlackBerry which broke (not an argument for the Z10); (3) he doesn't care about apps such as Instagram. Compelling?Trying the Microsoft Surface Pro &gt;&gt; Penny Arcarde's GabeHe thinks:As a mobile solution for a digital artist I'd say the Surface Pro is a winner. Now obviously if you need Photoshop you will probably want to wait until they get their driver issues worked out. If you're a Sketchbook user (or you could be) then this thing is ready to go right now. I had some people on Twitter asking if the Surface Pro makes sense as an alternative to a Cintiq at home or the office. That one is harder for me to answer. I personally really like my Cintiq 24HD and I would not use the Surface pro at the office instead of it.He's generally positive, but notes some downsides: heat, battery life, storage, non-adjustable kickstand angle. Still, he thinks it could replace his iPad for a number of tasks.Hands-on with the HP Slate 7 - it's just another cheap tablet you shouldn't buy &gt;&gt; Android PoliceWhile the Slate 7 does perform decently, it is noticeably slower than a Nexus 7 even in basic UI navigation tasks (thank that 1.6GHz dual-core processor), and that's really just the tip of the drawback iceberg. The 1024x600 screen is terrible. Let me say what I mean by terrible: the Nexus 7's display isn't winning any awards (it's good, but by no means great), and the Slate 7's display is pretty crappy even from that point of comparison. An aspect ratio of 16:9 and unusually large bezels on the top and bottom make the Slate 7 look unusually tall, too, and I can't say I'm a fan. The unit I played with also had some weird UI scaling issues going on (everything look 'squished'). There's no NFC, no GPS, and just 8GB on-board storage.The upshot is that HP hopes you'll buy into are the presence of a microSD card slot, HP ePrint, and a 3MP rear camera, all at a cost $30 less than the Nexus 7. Maybe for some these could be a legitimate draw, but honestly, you're likely to pay for it in the long run - who knows what HP's software update schedule is going to look like (it's running Android 4.1.1 in our hands-on), or how well this untested hardware will age (a dual-core A9 processor isn't exactly cutting-edge).Something priced to make a retail profit is bound to struggle against something being sold at wholesale prices.Samsung ditches AMOLED and Exynos for Galaxy S4? Supposed image leaks &gt;&gt; Android Authority[Saturday] morning, noted rumor purveyor Sam Mobile dropped a bomb on Samsung Galaxy S fans, with a report that allegedly contains the official specifications of the upcoming Galaxy S4. The shocker is that Samsung will supposedly not be using an Exynos processors nor an AMOLED display on their 2013 flagship.Before we go any further, note that Sam Mobile claims that, while the information comes from a "trusted insider", it's not official. It wouldn't be the first time tech sites are served fake info, so don't take everything in this post at face value.Recent Cyberattacks &gt;&gt; Microsoft TechNet BlogsAs reported by Facebook and Apple, Microsoft can confirm that we also recently experienced a similar security intrusion.Consistent with our security response practices, we chose not to make a statement during the initial information gathering process. During our investigation, we found a small number of computers, including some in our Mac business unit, that were infected by malicious software using techniques similar to those documented by other organizations. We have no evidence of customer data being affected and our investigation is ongoing.Would this have been down to the same iPhoneDevSDK site that affected Facebook and Apple? (Thanks @rquick for original pointer.)The Google store experience &gt;&gt; Joy Of Tech"Thank you for shopping Google!"Falcon Pro hits 100K user token limit: another Twitter client bites the dust &gt;&gt; Android PoliceFalcon Pro was, and technically still is, one of the most popular paid Twitter clients on the platform.According to the Falcon Pro Twitter account, only 40,000 users have actually paid for the app, with the remainder presumably made up by pirated users. Apps in excess of 100,000 user tokens or 200% of their original users require additional permissions from Twitter to exceed the limit - so far, Twitter has not deemed any third-party clients on any platform worthy, with the possible exception of first-party clients and acquisitions like TweetDeck.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The newest attempt to thwart illegal filesharing in the United States launched Monday and while the "six strikes and you're out" initiative seems to offer light penalties, digital rights advocates are concerned that it lacks transparency.TheCopyright Alert System (CAS)was devised by a coalition of internet service providers (ISPs), content owners and the US government to curb illegal downloading by alerting "casual infringers" when illegal filesharing is detected on their IP address.Under the system, content owners identify illegally uploaded content on peer-to-peer networks. AT&amp;T, Cablevision, Comcast, Time Warner Cable or Verizon are alerted if the IP address providing the content is their customer. Then, the ISP alerts the customer associated with the account."This is just a great big expensive system to snoop on and intimidate people who are probably mostly good actors," said Corynne McSherry, a lawyer and intellectual property director at the Electronic Frontier Foundation.Initially, the alerts are intended to be educational. They tell the customer what happened and how they can prevent it from happening again. If pirating continues to happen through the IP address, users will receive the message again, followed by messages that ask them to confirm they have seen the alerts. The fifth and sixth alert are called mitigation alerts and will temporarily slow users' internet speeds, depending on the ISP.After that, the alerts stop, even if the user continues pirating, but the record of copyright infringement remains. How that could be used in court is undetermined, since the system just launched."That kind of backroom deal is not appropriate. It's certainly not how we should be doing copyright policy," McSherry said. "And that's what this is, it's a private copyright system and it doesn't have the protections and balances that the public copyright system has."CAS has also been criticized because the person who audited the MarkMonitor softwareto ensure that it fairly identifies copyright violations is a former lobbyistfor the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), one of the industry groups fronting money for system. The Center for Copyright Information, which is implementing the system, said they would do a new audit, but if they have, the results have not yet been published."If you were in a court of law and you were faced with an accusation of infringement I assure you, you would be able to examine the system that identified you," said McSherry. "We don't have that here, it's all secret."People who have open Wi-Fi signals or share their internet with others will be held responsible for pirating through their IP address, even if they didn't do it. The system allows for people to contest charges by requesting a review from their ISP, which costs $35 and must be done within two weeks of receiving a mitigation alert.McSherry said that people engaged in wholesale commercial infringement wouldn't be fazed by the system because they are familiar with ways around the system. Average users can also easily hide their IP address with a variety of free online services. Users can also switch ISPs, though in most places, those five providers are the only option for internet service.Jill Lesser, executive director of the Center for Copyright Informationsaid in an interview with On the Mediathat the program is meant to abet the "casual infringer"."We hope that by the time people get to alerts number five or six, they will stop," Lesser said. "Once they've been mitigated, they've received several alerts. We're just not gonna send them any more alerts because they're not the kind of customer that we're going to reach with this program."The method of educating and alerting is a departure from the industry groups including the RIAA and Motion Picture Association of America to stop pirating earlier attempts to stop pirating. In the early 2000s, content providers launched tens of thousands of lawsuits against individual users. Most chose to accept settlements to avoid cases, but one person who chose to fightsaw $675,000 in damages for illegally downloading music in high school.This failed to have a significant effect on pirating, and the industry stopped suing these type of casual users several years ago.
Surfing the web from at home might be just what Yahoo's chief Marissa Mayer wants her audience to do – but she has banned employees of the company itself from working "remotely", in an edict sent out last Friday to Yahoo's thousands of staff.Several hundred staff must now relocate their home offices to Yahoo's nearest office outpost by June – or quit, as the former Google chief gets serious about getting the company's staff back into "meat space" so it can be a contender in the web space.The memo from human resources chief Jackie Reses – but driven by Mayer – says that "to become the absolute best place to work, communication and collaboration will be important, so we need to be working side-by-side. That is why it is critical that we are all present in our offices."But the mood of Yahoo's 11,500 employees – down from 14,100 at the end of 2011 – can be guessed from the fact that the memo is marked: "PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION – DO NOT FORWARD" and that it has beenforwarded to the news site AllThingsDby "a plethora" of staff, according to senior editor Kara Swisher, who broke the story.The memo points out that even those who only work one or two days in the office will have to submit to the new regime. But it seems that what Mayer has in mind is the provision of more water coolers and coffee machines: "Some of the best decisions and insights come from hallway and cafeteria discussions, meeting new people, and impromptu team meetings," it says. "Speed and quality are often sacrificed when we work from home."Mayer was hired in secretand took over in July 2012, and soon afterwards announced that she would be having her first child – which was duly born in October. Mayer however eschewed maternity leave to go straight back to work.Having won a number of awards – including being ranked in the "Top 50 Best Places to Work" by Business Insider in 2013, and "Top 500 Green Companies" by Newsweek in 2010 – Yahoo may find itself winning another, for "biggest group of suddenly annoyed professionals". Although the memo says that "Being a Yahoo isn't just about your day-to-day job", a number are now wondering if it might be exactly that.One former Yahoo worker commenting at AllThingsD said that working from home made them far more productive than being in the office: "Why? I didn't have to put up with numbskull self-important programmers constantly yakking to each other LOUDLY from the next set of cubicles about non-work-related stuff, and I wasn't being distracted every 20 minutes by some bored soul coming over to my desk to go for coffee or foosball, or just to talk about the spreading ennui of knowing we were working for a company whose glory days were long over."The UK press office declined to say whether staff here will be affected: "we do not comment on internal matters," a spokesman said.
European mobile companies have vowed to "break the monopolies" enjoyed by Google and Apple in smartphones and urged regulators to allow consolidation among rival operators.Hit by economic recession and the cost of subsidising expensive handsets,  want to redraw the network map of Europe by consolidating down to two or three players per country.At the Mobile World Congress trade show in Barcelona on Monday, UK-based Vodafone, Spain's Telefónica and Telecom Italia called for measures to boost their power including a single market with common rules across Europe, lower tax and the granting of spectrum licences in perpetuity as in China and the United States."This is not a level playing field. It is not sustainable that we invest more in handset purchases than in the development of networks," said the Telefónica chief executive and chairman, César Alierta.In a belligerent call to arms, he said European telecoms companies have invested €225bn (£197bn) over the last five years but seen little return. Telefónica is challenging Google's Android software and Apple by backing analternative smartphone operating system designed by Mozilla, maker of the popular Firefox web browser.Firefox OS will reach consumers in the spring when the first handsets go on sale, many of them in developing markets. It aims to give consumers and makers of content more control by allowing apps to be downloaded directly from the internet rather than via an app store."This internet is dominated by a small number of players that restrict customers' choice," said Alierta. "We support open ecosystems to break monopolies and give greater choice and flexibility to consumers. Firefox represents a way to bring balance back to the sector."Vodafone's chief executive, Vittorio Colao, also urged regulators to "let consolidation happen" and only step in "if there is market failure". Telecoms watchdog Ofcom has insisted on at least four networks in the UK, resulting in some of the lowest prices and cheapest handsets in Europe.Colao believes the region should move towards a single telecoms regulator, shifting control towards Brussels."In order to have it you need to give away some local autonomy but we should go there. Look at horse meat. But it's not just a business discussion, its a big political discussion."Predicting 9.7bn mobile connections in the world by 2017, and a $10.5tn (£7.1tn) contribution to global GDP from the industry, Telecom Italia boss Franco Bernabè warned that networks needed help in exchange for investing in new technologies like 4G."Mobile operators in most markets are suffering from too much competition," said Bernabè. "Regulators should adopt a light touch approach and allow the industry to reorganise itself in order to cope … And governments should avoid imposing burdens on the industry in the form of taxation and spectrum charges."
One of the key trends in the automotive industry in 2013 is the desire of carmakers to get into apps, and app-makers to get into cars. Fertile ground for partnerships like the one announced at Mobile World Congress between Ford and Spotify.Carmaker meets digital music service isn't a new phenomenon: in the US, Ford already has Pandora, iHeartRadio, Slacker, Rhapsody, Mog and Amazon's Cloud Player service working on itsSync AppLinkplatform, which enables drivers to control smartphone apps using their voice and/or dashboard controls.Its Spotify deal – the first automotive partnership for the Swedish company – comes with a European twist that will see Ford's EcoSport become its first Sync-equipped car to be sold in Europe later in 2013. Ford is planning to have Sync in 3.5m cars in Europe by 2015, too."This relationship was a year and a half in development," said Doug VanDagens, Ford's global director of its connected services solutions organisation, in an interview with The Guardian shortly after the announcement."With both Sync and AppLink coming to Europe for the first time this year, we wanted to have a great partner. We've been pursuing them, because of their leadership position. They're the leader for streaming music in active subscriptions, paid subscriptions and number of countries, so it's a good deal for us."The new app is impressive, with voice control working very well for navigating playlists, skipping between tracks and triggering artist-based radio stations – well enough to show how a voice-controlled Spotify could work in the home too, in fact.Spotify's global head of hardware partnerships Pascal de Mul said that his team focused on making the app quick and intuitive to use in-car, while adding the odd feature – like a single "Road Trip" playlist that drivers can add tracks to by speaking.This is all part of Ford's push for its AppLink initiative, complete with its own developer program announced at the CES show in January.Since then, more than 2,500 developers have signed up to make their apps compatible with Ford's system, and the company is looking for more in Europe to join Spotify and three other apps – Kaliki, Glympse and Aha – as locally-developed apps for the European launch of Sync.As in the US, Ford will review every app created by external developers for quality and safety. The company also says it will appoint a "recommended mobile app development house" to work with developers in Europe, and also to create an app cataloguing Sync-capable smartphone apps, to help drivers find them.Ford also announced at CES that it was making AppLink open source, so rival carmakers can use the platform too. It's too early to tell how many will, but VanDagens said he was hopeful that pragmatism will dictate that they do – as well as pressure from app developers and digital services."The developer community has told us that a lot of these other platforms are really hard to interface with," said VanDagens. "We empathise with them, so we're opening up this very proprietary technology. Since we announced in January we've got three OEMs that are actively working with us."VanDagens also talks enthusiastically about Ford jumping into hackathons with Spotify, to see what developers can create with its SDK in a matter of hours, let alone days or weeks."We've been working with people like Spotify since 2008, and we realised we have a lot to learn from them," he said. "The number of smartphones versus smartphone-enabled cars is really out of proportion."That's why AppLink is so focused on people plugging in their own smartphones, rather than embedding everything into the dashboard itself, including a modem. "The average development cycle of a car is three years, then it lives for eight years," said VanDagens."The last thing we want to do is take one of the coolest pieces of technology now and make people live with it for the next 13 years, although that's what some of our competitors are doing. Embedded modems have their place for things like door unlock and remote-start, but for things like music and entertainment, news and navigation, you want to bring the very latest technology into the car with you."Music is an obvious choice for apps that work with cars, but what other areas is Ford keen for developers to focus on? VanDagens cited "core services", by which he meant entertainment, navigation and some forms of productivity."We don't encourage incremental activity in spaces that people aren't normally engaged in in the car," he said. "We've had people wanting to have auctioning or internet search apps, but we've always reserved the right to focus on automotive services that aren't distracting."Unsurprisingly, given their partnership, Mul praised Ford's platform, especially as the way AppLink works means Spotify can update its app whenever it likes. Apparently not the case with some other carmakers."The software cycle is allowed to spin at a faster rate than the hardware cycle," he said. "Some other companies are trying to force software companies into the same update cycle as the hardware."
Samsung will launch its latest Galaxy smartphone in New York on 14 March, as it attempts to retake the lead from Apple in the United States.The next edition of Samsung's bestselling phone is rumoured to feature a large 4.9in screen – compared to 4.8in on its predecessor – and a camera which at 13 megapixels will outdo that and Apple's fifth iPhone.The unveiling of the device, expected to be called the "Galaxy S IV", marks the first time in three years Samsung has chosen to debut a product from its flagship range in America. The S III event was held in London last year, while the S II launched in Barcelona in 2011.The Samsung event will be held at the art deco Radio City Music Hall, located in New York's Rockerfeller Center, and a favourite venue for Grammy and MTV awards.Samsung has its sights set squarely on the US market after Apple took the crown for bestselling smartphone both worldwide and in the US at the end of last year,according to data from the research company Strategy Analytics. The California company knocked its South Korean rival from the top spot as the biggest seller of smartphones in the Christmas quarter thanks to the arrival of the iPhone 5 and price reductions on older models. That meant it sold 27.4m iPhone 5 and 17.4m iPhone 4S handsets globally in the fourth quarter, against 15.4m Galaxy S III handsets in that period, said Strategy Analytics.Invitations to the launch were sent out Monday morning, just as rival Nokia was unveiling budget versions of its Lumia handsets aimed at the Chinese and Latin America markets at the Mobile World Congress trade show in Barcelona.Apple shipped 17.7m mobile phones for a record 34% share of the US market in the fourth quarter of 2012, said Strategy Analytics, making it the no 1 mobile phone vendor by volume in the US for the first time ever.
Google could face a third privacy row in a two years, after a leading campaigner called for the US government to investigate the fact that the names, geographic region and email addresses of people who buy apps from its Play store are passed on to the app developers without users' explicit permission.The company is also coming under pressure from developers who do not want it to send them that data, because they are concerned about its privacy implications.Ben Edelman, an associate professor at Harvard Business School,says that analysis of Google's terms and conditionsrelating to its Google Play store and Google Wallet transaction system (used for buying apps) doesn't show any clauses where users are specifically told that their emails will be sent on to the developer.He also warns that developers could use that information to "track and harass" people who have given apps low ratings or requested refunds. And hackers – or malicious developers – could create personalised emails to send out to people to steal passwords (phishing) or install "updates" that were actually malware.Apple does not pass on any such information from its App Store when users buy or download apps – although Google's store has a different legal structure from its rival's. Users buy from Apple, for legal purposes; with Google, they are legally buying from the developer.Google says it has to provide some location data about which country apps are bought in so developers cancalculate the correct amount of taxto pay.But that does not explain why it passes on buyers' names and email addresses, which together with a postcode could be used to identify a person's location and address."Google's prior privacy blunders have put [it] under higher scrutiny," Edelman says, pointing to the 20-year consent order with the US Federal Trade Commission thatGoogle signed in March 2011in the wake of its Buzz social network fiasco – followed by arecord $22.5m fine in August 2012for hacking Apple users' browsers to install tracking cookies. It has also beenfiercely criticised in Europefor its changes in March 2012 to its privacy policies, which data protection chiefs said could mean "uncontrolled" use of personal data.Eric Butler, a freelance software developer of the Tapchat and Farebot apps,tweetedin July 2012 "I wonder if most Android users realise that when you buy an app in the Play Store the seller [of the app] can see your name, email address and phone."Following the row, he has noted on his blog that "Because the entire experience of purchasing Android apps is so sloppy, it's not unreasonable to assume that this privacy issue was actually an oversight." But, he says, "Google should follow Apple's lead and offer users and developers better privacy protection."The release of the emails to developers washighlighted by Dan Moran, an Australian app developer, earlier in February – though Edelman points out that "at least three other developers had previously raised the same concern".Another developer, Jesse Wilson,pointed out the same problem in Novemberon Google+, and was quicklyechoed by Chris Lacy, who said that "as a developer I never asked for this information, I have no need for it, and I simply do not want to be a custodian of such information."Lacy added that "As a consumer, this is distressing on many levels: there is no fair warning that this information will be transferred … trusting my personal information to Google is one thing. But with this system, users are unknowingly having to trust their information to a third party. There's no way to know what security measures that third party might have in place." He added that it meant that the app developer "has gained my personal information without requesting the appropriate permissions via the app."Google has said that passing on the details does not breach its privacy conditions. In a quote to Siliconvalley.com, a representative told the site that "Google Wallet shares the information necessary to process a transaction, which is clearly spelled out in the Google Wallet privacy notice."But Edelman disputes that. "First, it simply is not 'necessary' to provide developers with access to customer names or email addresses in order to process customer transactions … To claim that it is 'necessary' to provide this information to developers, Google would need to establish that there is truly no alternative – a high bar, which Google has not even attempted to reach. Second, this data sharing is not 'spelled out in the Google Wallet privacy notice' and certainly is not 'clear' there."He added that the idea that the developer is the "merchant of record" for the transaction is contradicted by the fact that the transaction is carried out with Google itself, through Google Wallet – and that repayments too come via Google. "If it has 'Google' as the company you do the transaction with, not the developer, then it seems logical that Google is the merchant of record," he told the Guardian.
Madonna (madonna)It's only in its early stages, but Madonna's account shows real promise. While most stars like to demonstrate what nice normal people they are, these pictures offer a truly frightening glimpse of life as the Margaret Thatcher of pop. So far we knowshe likes children(presumably her own), the Mexican artist Frida Kahlo and scaring photographers. It's most ungallant of Instagram to threaten her with dismissal for "mature content". It would be a great loss to humanity if this were shut down.Typical shot:Sections of Madonna's face glaring at you.Beware:"Addicted to sweat".Post frequency:Two or three a week.Pet content:One horse, rear view.Jamie Oliver (jamieoliver)Oliver's posts are pally and food-obsessed. Photograph: InstagramThe artist formerly known as the Naked Chef has made Instagram yet another outpost of his multimedia empire, bringing us a 14th helping of what we already know and feel ambivalent about. Expect incessant enthusiasm for food, chummy relationships with anything that moves, and a tastefully glossy sheen covering it all. When a fox killed his black swan on Saturday, he gave us a poignant photograph of thebloodstained eggs, when what we really want is video of him chasing it around with a boning knife.Typical shot:"Pimped chocolate tiramisu".Beware:Evidence of perfect family.Post frequency:Daily.Pet content:Low (swan aside).Kim Kardashian (kim kardashian)Kim Kardashian's stream is generally about fashion and attention seeking.  Photograph: InstagramShe knows what the public wants, that Kim Kardashian, and luckily it's exactly what she wants to give them: ceaseless half-clothed pouting surrounded by evidence of money. If this account shows us the real Kim, then her image as a clothes- and attention-obsessed numbskull is fully earned. If it doesn't, she's a genius.Typical shot:Décolletage having dinner;decolletage after the apocalypse;décolletage taking a hard-earned break..Beware:Vapid handwritten homilies.Approximate post frequency:Daily.Pet content:Low, unless you count children.Rihanna (badgalriri)One of the few places Rihanna can't smoke. Photograph: InstagramWhat the kids don't understand about life as an international pop star and glamour icon is how much smoking you have to do to achieve your dreams. Rihanna's account puts the record straight, along with a few subtle hints aboutwhat precisely you need to smokein order to be as cool as her. The price we pay is rather a lot ofstoned wisdom.Typical shot:Rihanna's bottom.Beware:Her Jesus days.Post frequency:Near-constant.Pet content:None.Lena Dunham (lenadunham)Lena Dunham without her dog. Photograph: InstagramIt's fair to say that this is not a very airbrushed picture of Dunham's daily life. It also seems fair to say that Dunham's daily life involves mostly pottering about in comfortable clothes and being witty to her dog. At leastshe iswitty, which is a rare quality on Instagram, especially among celebrities.Typical shot:Friend beneath duvet, 2013.Beware:Fishing for compliments.Post frequency:Daily.Pet content:High, always dog.Justin Bieber (justinbieber)Enter the strange and hilarious world of Justin Bieber. Photograph: InstagramIf it's a choice between him and Harry Styles, stick with the original. Styles gives more or less the picture of boyband life you might expect: backstage hijinks and views from hotel windows. Bieber, on the other hand, has had a few years' practice, and has become entertainingly strange.At times worrying. At others, probablynot worth thinking too much about. But alwaysunintentionally hilarious.Typical shot:Look, I'm even handsome sideways!Beware:Weird self-mythologising.Post frequency:Twice a day.Pet content:Low, but a lot of younger relatives.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 23 February 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Crysis 3(16+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (23)PC (9)12 (–)Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance(18+)PS3 (61)Xbox 360 (39)13 (3)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (31)Wii (5)VITA (3)224 (4)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (38)PC (2)Wii U (1)155 (1)Aliens: Colonial Marines(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (39)PC (2)26 (2)Dead Space 3(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (36)PC (4)37 (5)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (38)PC (7)138 (7)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)PS3 (44)Xbox 360 (43)VITA (12)PC (1)179 (6)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (41)Wii U (4)1710 (11)Hitman Absolution(18+)PS3 (49)Xbox 360 (49)PC (1)1411 (8)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (79)Xbox 360 (19)Wii U (2)PS3 (1)2112 (12)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (78)PS3 (15)PC (7)6213 (9)Sonic & All Stars Racing Transformed(7+)Xbox 360 (29)Wii U (25)3DS (21)PS3 (18)1214 (13)Skylanders Giants(7+)Wii (40)Xbox 360 (29)PS3 (14)3DS (6)1915 (15)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (31)Wii (20)DS (16)PS3 (14)3316 (10)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)1517 (16)Lego The Lord of the Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (36)Wii (18)PS3 (17)DS (14)1418 (20)Grand Theft Auto Iv(18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (37)4319 (–)The Sims 3(12+)PC (87)Xbox 360 (5)3DS (5)4820 (–)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)31UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
This week on Tech Weekly,Aleks Krotoskitalks to the inventor of the software botRandom Amazon Shopper. The software spends $50 of Darius's hard-earned cash and spends it on completely random items. The result is a very interesting record collection. Darius discusses the benefits of randomness on the web.Jemima Kissmeets up with the founders ofwireWAX, Steve Callanan and Dan Galloway, to discuss their interactive video software.We also have a tech news roundup with the latest on Google's hotly anticipated smart glasses and news that Hotmail will soon be no more.The music featured in this week's edition is byThe Ghost of 3.13 from the album Inwards on the Mozyk.net labelin Bulgaria.
Monday, here we come! How was your weekend, space cadet?
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamInterflora SEO Penalty Analysis 2013 &gt;&gt; Martin MacDonald[On Wednesday] evening, well known florist brand Interflora was wiped off the face of the internet.  Well, in search marketing terms anyway…Searching for the terms [Flowers], [florist], [flower delivery], [flowers online] and hundreds of other related search terms yielded the interflora.co.uk domain in first place – until yesterday afternoon.  Now the website does not even appear for its own brand name.Reflecting on Google's power: a case for regulation? &gt;&gt; Tim Anderson's ITWritingHe's written a sort of list, prompted by Interflora's downranking:9. Users of Google will be grateful that it attempts to improve the value of its search results by reducing the influence of meaningless incoming links. On the other hand, I find it difficult to understand why a user who typed "interflora" into Google would not want to see the official site at the top of the list, since it is a legitimate business and not in any sense malicious. Of course they do in fact see this, judging from my own experiment minutes ago, but it is an advertisement and not an organic link. The top organic link is not Interflora's own site.10. Pause for thought: what would be the effect on Google's business if it put ads below organic search results rather than above?11. The only rationale for (9) above is that Google considers it worth inconveniencing its users (presuming you do not accept that it simply wants to sell more ads) for the sake of the higher objective of penalising sites which, in its view, breach its guidelines.12. We all have a choice whether to use Google or not; but this choice is not one that fixes the problem. The problem, rather, is the choice which our customers or potential customers make, over which we have no control.No. 10 is quite a poser.Guardian launches new reader profile pages &gt;&gt; Guardian Help[This] week we'll be launching a new look for reader profile pages.The changes will bring all your website activity and site preferences into one place, which we hope will make it easier for you to find and to manage them.Where "you" actually means "everyone else".HTC America settles FTC charges it failed to secure millions of mobile devices shipped to consumers &gt;&gt; FTCMobile device manufacturer HTC America has agreed to settle Federal Trade Commission charges that the company failed to take reasonable steps to secure the software it developed for its smartphones and tablet computers, introducing security flaws that placed sensitive information about millions of consumers at risk.Thesettlement requires HTC America to develop and release software patchesto fix vulnerabilities found in millions of HTC devices. In addition, the settlement requires HTC America to establish a comprehensive security program designed to address security risks during the development of HTC devices and to undergo independent security assessments every other year for the next 20 years.…the FTC's complaint details several vulnerabilities found on HTC's devices, including the insecure implementation of two logging applications - Carrier IQ and HTC Loggers - as well as programming flaws that would allow third-party applications to bypass Android's permission-based security model.Tweaking Android makes it buggy, it seems.Samsung's Iill-conceived Apple VoiceOver suit stayed in Germany &gt;&gt; AllThingsDA Mannheim Regional Court on Fridayordered a stay of a Samsung suit against Applethat alleges the iPhone maker's VoiceOver screen-access technology violatedits patent on display into speech data.The mechanics of this particular spat and the court's ruling on it are bit too byzantine to dive into here, but it's worth a look in broad strokes simply as an example of just how low players are willing to stoop in IP battles like the one between Apple and Samsung. So, in short: Samsung holds a patent on a feature that allows devices to read aloud text to their users with the press of a button. The company asserted that patent against Apple's accessibility features, specificallyVoiceOverwhich is specifically designed for anyone with impaired vision. Caught in the middle: The blind, low-vision users, folks with dyslexia and anyone else who might benefit from having what appears on their computer screen described to them out loud.Yes, this move by Samsung against Apple was a tactical one in a nasty battle in which billions of dollars are at stake. Yes, it's just business. But it's ill-conceived. Even leaving aside the ethics of asserting a patent against a feature designed to help the blind, this is unwise. It's the PR equivalent of punching yourself in the face. Samsung has now identified itself as a company willing to accept the loss of accessibility for the vision-impaired as collateral damage in its battle with Apple.Bits v. Bytes: Follow the money &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu:the Pixel is a high-end product. It's priced at the top of the range of what a laptop computer might cost (given the dimensions).  Perhaps it's part of a pattern where Google will hone its hardware skills toward releasing a phone or tablet it can call its own. Starting with a more traditional computer is "easier" than trying to deliver on the more demanding smaller form factors.And yet, the more obvious question is why would Google want to be in the hardware business? Isn't being a web-focused company implicitly suggesting that hardware is a commodity to be farmed off to perpetually impoverished and violently abused OEMs?The truth is quite different from this. Samsung currently makes far more operating profit from Android phones than Google does from all its operations.Oh, you knew that already?F**K CAPTCHA &gt;&gt; Harry BrignullBrignull is a user experience designer and consultant:Users were directed to the sign-up form direct from the homepage before they could interact with the product. As you can see, there was a CAPTCHA at the bottom of the form (powered by reCAPTCHA).With this design, they had a conversion rate of roughly 48%. They then removed the CAPTCHA, and it boosted the conversion rate up to 64%. Inconversion rate lingo, that&amp;#8217;s an uplift of 33.3%!They replaced the CAPTCHA withhoneypot fieldsandtimestamp analysis, which has apparently proven to be very effective at preventing spam while being completely invisible to the end user.Google's Android reborn as network-hacking kit &gt;&gt; Wired.comThe folks at security tools companyPwnie Expresshave built a tablet that can bash the heck out of corporate networks. Called the Pwn Pad, it's a full-fledged hacking toolkit built atop Google's Android operating system.Pwnie Express will be selling the cool-looking hack machines — based on Google's Nexus 7 tablets — for $795. They'll be introduced at the RSA security conference in San Francisco next week, but Pwnie Express is also releasing the Pwn Pad source code, meaning that hackers can download the software and get it up and running on other types of Android phones and tablets.Very neat.Google announces Chromebook Pixel: a premium Chrome OS laptop shipping next week for $1,299 &gt;&gt; The VergeGoogle repeatedly told us how smooth and fluid it is to swipe through webpages on the touchscreen on the Pixel, and how it would enable developers to target a broader ecosystem for their apps by allowing their tablet and smartphone creations to have the same experience on the web. If only it were true: the touchscreen response is far from fluid, if Google's on-stage demos andour own hands-on impressionsare any indication.Specifications v experience.The agony of the fanboy &gt;&gt; TechCrunchJohn Biggs:When you fail, fail gracefully. When WebOS died, fanboys were forced to concede to the fact that their favorite thing in the world was a dud. A group of fans rallied around the open-source version of WebOS and are still futzing around with it, but like a legion of Betamax fanatics, they're worshipping at the feet of a dead god. Move on. Be nimble and mentally malleable. Learn something new. Still defending PHP to your dying breath? Go learn Python. Think iOS is a blast? Swap your iPad mini for a Nexus 7. I do this quite often and it's very refreshing. I learned that I loved Windows 8, for example, and that theSurface Prois great. I learned these things because I'm in a very special position, but you (meaning MG [Siegler]), too, can at least go into the Microsoft store with an open mind and come out potentially changed.Here's hoping. A wise piece.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Huawei, the Chinese telecoms equipment group, has unveiled what it claims is the world's fastest smartphone and announced a 60% annual rise in shipments of its mobile devices.Headlining at themobile phone industry's annual gathering in Barcelona, which opened its doors a day after hundreds of thousands of demonstrators rallied across Spain in protest at national austerity, Huawei presented its latest device to run on Google's Android software.The Ascend P2 connects to the web two or three times faster than other smartphones when using Wi-Fi, its maker claims, downloading high-definition films in minutes and videos, songs and ebooks in just seconds.In the Christmas quarter, Huawei overtook BlackBerry to become the world's third largest smartphone maker. Although it is some way behind Samsung and Apple, its less expensive but high-performing handsets are attracting a growing following.It shipped a total of 127m consumer devices last year, of which 32m were smartphones alongside more basic "feature" phones, home broadband modems and dongles to connect laptops to mobile networks.The division generated $7.5bn of revenues in 2012, a 10% increase on the previous year. Overall income including sales of network equipment to telecoms companies totalled $35.4bn, bringing Huawei level for the first time with the market leader Ericsson.The surge in sales is despiteheightened concerns in Washington and London over cyberspyingand the degree to which Huawei's equipment should be trusted at the heart of western networks.A United States Congressional report in October stated the firm and its fellow Chinese business ZTE posed a national security threat, while the UK's Intelligence Security Committee is due to complete its own investigation shortly.In a sign of the shifting power balance in telecoms, Huawei and Samsung are vying with Sweden's Ericsson and US computer chip maker Qualcomm to host the largest stands at this year's Mobile World Congress trade fair.Although the number of delegates is expected to rise from 67,000 to 70,000 this year, cash-strapped mobile phone networks are cutting back their presence as austerity grips Europe. According to Bloomberg, Vodafone is spending 20% less this year and, along with Sweden's TeliaSonera, is sending fewer executives."What we see at the event matches the trends we have in the industry," said Michael O'Hara, chief marketing officer of mobile carriers association and congress organiser GSMA. "Europe is the flatter piece of the equation."Following student riots last year and Sunday's 100,000-strong demonstration in Madrid, at which prime minister Mariano Rajoy was urged to step down, security is expected to be tight.Conspicuously missing from the exhibitors is Google. Last year, to showcase Android, the company took a gigantic stand which featured a juice bar and a helter-skelter.The showmanship will be left to Huawei, which launched a new branding campaign under the slogan "Make it Possible" by commissioning an artwork of a solid steel 1m square cube magnetically suspended in mid-air.Huawei is redoubling efforts to establish its brand with consumers, moving out from behind the shadow of the mobile networks it supplies. Richard Yu, head of the Chinese company's consumer business, said the company now had "strong momentum" in its efforts to be a "leading smartphone brand in the coming years".
This ain't no ordinary office. You can tell from the footwear. There's lots of Converse, other people are padding around in socks (yellow, green blue), and the boss is sporting shiny silver trainers.It feels like an upmarket internet cafe, or a nightclub that just happens to be full of computers. It feels like anything but an ordinary office. "It's meant to feel like home. A home that fosters creativity," says Charles Armstrong, founder and chief executive of Shoreditch shared work spaceThe Trampery.Armstrong, dressed in a brown cord jacket, black and white check trousers, silver high-top trainers with green and blue socks, opened the Trampery as a creative hub for tech-savvy east London hipsters in 2009 – years before David Cameron jumped on the Silicon Roundabout bandwagon."There was a sudden stampede around 20008 when anyone who's anyone with a software idea wanted to come here," he says. "But they had a big problem finding anywhere to lease, especially anywhere funky – and that's where the idea for The Trampery came from."To start with he squeezed staff of his software business, Trampoline Systems, into half of his office space and rented out the rest. Then he rented a warehouse just for his Trampery clients. Soon there will be five Tramperys in London, and Armstrong wants to take the concept overseas.The idea came from visiting similar bohemian working environments in San Francisco, but the Trampery was to have an "eccentric London feel".It's for young entrepreneurs whose business has outgrown their bedrooms and don't want the hassle or expense of renting their own office. "If you do that,  you need to make sure the electricity bill's going to be paid – all that sort of thing – you essentially need an office manager," he says.Despite charging £330 a month for a desk, occupancy at the Trampery runs at 95%Renting out temporary office space is hardly a revolutionary idea. But Armstrong is deeply offended at any comparison of his business to FTSE 250 office rental company Regus. "Have you ever been in a Regus office?" he asks. "They're horrible environments. As cheap as possible with carpet tiles and polystyrene ceilings."There aren't any carpet tiles in the Trampery. The floor is oak, and one wall is lined with reclaimed teak from ship decking. Armstrong describes the decor as "high-level lavish".While the interior is unquestionably nice, Armstrong says, it's the Trampery's sense of community that really appeals to clients, including mobile app developers, and a company that streams hundreds of TV news channels on the internet."So much of what they like is networking, and the cross fertilisation of ideas," he says. "Our very first collaboration was between a mobile app developer and an art gallery."Rather than religiously guard their ideas, the Trampery's clients are encouraged to discuss their projects with each other over coffee and home-made cake at the in-house cafe or beers on regular nights out.Armstrong, who read social and political science at Oxford and has been "setting stuff up ever since I left", says he tries to increase potential for crossover of ideas welcoming as wide a range of businesses as possible. "It's important that we don't only do one niche," he says. "We want to take on the history of this area, which is very strong in fashion and art and mix that alongside technology."But he won't take on just anyone. He's banned big business, and won't allow those that aren't really entrepreneurial and just want to piggyback off its cool reputation. "We've got criteria, we want to get a sense of what they really want," he says. "If it's just a cheap pretty desk they're after they can go somewhere else. We're not estate agents or property developers, we're not in it to fill up space."He can afford to be picky. Despite charging £330 a month for a desk, which makes the Trampery the third or fourth most expensive shared office in the area, occupancy is running at about 95%. "And we're turning down about 50 people a week," he says.He claims some clients are so keen to secure a spot in the Bevenden Street building they make temporary arrangements until a slot becomes free. "If we were just looking to maximise profit we could price it a lot higher," he says. "That would cut off a lot of developers."Armstrong, who made a fortune out of his Trampoline Systems software business, says he is not in the Trampery to make money. "We're profitable – we make quite a lot of profit actually – but this is a not-for-profit business to help support entrepreneurs.""Everyone knows I'm not in this to sell it and make loads of money. They [clients] can relax because they know they're not being fleeced," he says. "I'm not doing this to make a pile of money."He got the Trampery off the ground by tapping up "high net worth individual" friends in the tech world, some of whom he says are famous but refuses to name.Armstrong says the ­Trampery’s sense of community is at the heart of its appeal to clientsThe Trampery's profits are being ploughed back in to expanding the business. Four new locations in London – Mare Street near London Fields, Old Street, Tabernacle Street, very close to Old Street, and Clerkenwell – three of which will open this year.The Mare Street site, being developed with Hackney Community College, will be mostly for fashion and charity businesses. While the Tabernacle Street office will cater for companies that "started with us but have now grown to 50 people but want to stay with us".The government has embraced Silicon Roundabout/East London Tech City, with David Cameron pledging to turn the areas into one of the "world's great technology centres".Google has created a seven-floor "campus" of office and event space, and is moving its UK head quarters to King's Cross nearby. Amazon is down the road in the Barbican and Expedia is in Islington.Another Armstrong project, the Tech City Map, tracks the development of some 1,300 technology companies in London, most of them "easily reachable in 20 minutes on a bike", the entrepreneur's preferred mode of transport.
Price£10,495MPG55.4Top speed104mphFor many of us, January was a&nbsp;month of denial: less drink, less food, less excess, less fun. Thank goodness it's over. But we weren't the only ones on a diet.Mazda's engineers have had their cars on a pound-shedding regime, too, and the trim Mazda2 would be getting a round of applause at theWeight Watchersweigh-in as it has shifted an amazing 100kg.The technique used at Mazda is the same as the one used by Team Sky to put Bradley Wiggins into the yellow jersey. The mechanics stripped his bike down and looked at how each tiny part could be improved. Ball bearings were weighed, gears were dismantled, spokes were replaced, and overall these fractional gains added up to an incremental advantage. Imagine if they'd shaved off Wiggo's sideburns. He'd have romped home.Over at Mazda's HQ in Japan, the diet was known as the "gram strategy". The car was completely dismantled and then from the tyre tread up was reengineered to make it lighter and more efficient. It's hard  to think of a more meticulous or tedious job.The gram strategy is part of Mazda's Skyactiv philosophy, which was launched in 2011 and is now being rolled out across the entire model range. It's a package of technologies that incorporates everything from developing super-efficient engines, lower CO2and fuel consumption, and lighter transmissions, bodyparts and chassis. The technology won  the manufacturer theWhat Car?2013  ultra-low carbon award.The Mazda2 is the smallest member of the Mazda gang, but the neighbourhood that this chirpy little five-seater goes out to fight in is the bloodiest of all market segments. There are more than 50 small car models on sale in Britain and all  offer the basics of seats, doors, engines and transport, so it takes extraordinary ingenuity and canniness to create some clear blue water around your baby. Your car  has to be attractive, safe, efficient, cost in the region of 10 grand and  still be fun to drive. It makes you realise how much easier the luxury wagons and supercars have it. Most problems can be solved if you throw money at them.In many ways, this is all the Mazda2's fault. When it was last relaunched it was the first example of the new model being smaller and lighter than the outgoing one. Before that bigger had always been better – or easier at least. The car was awarded five stars for safety and was namedWorld Car of the Yearin 2008. Other manufacturers took notice and soon everyone was competing to make their cars smaller and more ingenious – a massive boon for the cash-strapped, the space-starved  and the eco-conscious.This latest Mazda2 is weaponed-up and ready to march into the bloodbath. It comes with a choice of three petrol engines – two 1.3-litre units with 74 or 83bhp, and a 101bhp 1.5. There's also a 94bhp 1.6-litre diesel which is the most powerful, but also the most expensive. Far better to save your money and go for one of the little 1.3s. The handling is sharp, but the ride could be smoother. The small wheels and firm suspension turn every speed bump into aBecher's Brook. But Mazda has a reputation for building cars that endure, and this little one will  be battling to the finish line.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.uk
A few weeks ago, the chairman of Google, Eric Schmidt, spent four days in Cambridge as the Humanitas visiting professor in the university's Centre for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities, where I work. Afterwards, one of the questions I was most frequently asked by people who hadn't been around for his visit was: "Was he wearing the glasses?"This was interesting because it suggested a surprisingly wide awareness of something that – until recently – many people would have dismissed as a typical example of leading-edge uselessness. It'sGoogle Glass, an R&amp;D project aimed at developing an "augmented reality head-mounted display". It comes from the same Google lab that has produced the self-driving car and, in a way, belongs in the same category of insanely ambitious projects. But just as the car looks like becoming a reality, so too do the glasses. In fact, if you're a software developer and live in the US, you might just be able to acquire a prototype from theproject's website, in return for $1,500 and some original ideas for applications of the technology.In its current incarnation, the Google Glass headset (not to be confused withGoogle Goggles, incidentally) looks encouragingly geeky. It consists of a tiny Android computer built into the right-hand arm&nbsp;of a spectacles frame. The computer's display takes the form of a small prism that sits in the peripheral vision of the wearer's right eye. A tiny camera mounted in the frame conveys to the computer everything in the user's field of vision.The device is activated by voice commands, as in: "OK glass, record a video." Or: "OK glass, take a picture." This is illustrated by a stirringpromotional videothat manages to be both informative and beyond parody. It shows attractive Google persons – ie slim, athletic twentysomethings from California – doing everyday things such as skydiving, swinging on trapezes, aerobatics, arcane martial arts, rollercoaster rides etc and using their headsets to record these routine episodes in their busy lives.Such videos this will doubtless revive sceptical commentary about leading-edge uselessness. "So," said one unimpressed (female) viewer of the video, "you can record videos, take pictures, do Google searches and access satnav information." What was left unsaid, but clearly implied was: "So&nbsp;what?"That's the wrong question. If this technology really works in the messy real world where wireless connectivity is always flaky, then people will find good uses for it. Even now, it could be a boon for people whose short-term memory is poor or deteriorating. Being able to keep a visual and aural record of one's daily life might be helpful, as anyone who has an elderly parent in a nursing home will readily testify. It might also be useful for assisting technicians trying to diagnose&nbsp;problems miles away from base, or for medics performing unfamiliar surgical routines in distant locations. And these are just obvious applications.What endears the Google Glass project to me is that it's the latest instalment in a long and honourable tradition in computer science. It goes&nbsp;all the way back&nbsp;to&nbsp;one of the great luminaries of the business,Douglas&nbsp;Engelbart, the&nbsp;man who invented the&nbsp;computer mouse and was a pioneer in networked computing&nbsp;and the design of graphical user interfaces.&nbsp;(In&nbsp;December 1968, in San Francisco, he gave alive demonstrationof what networked computing could do that had a profound influence on the people who built the internet and much of the technology we use today.)What motivated Engelbart from the outset was a passionate belief that computers had the power to augment, rather than replace, human capabilities. Machines, he believed, should do what machines do best, thereby freeing up humans to do whattheydo best. And this idea of "augmentation" has inspired a good deal of research in the decades since Engelbart embarked on his mission to change the world.Many years ago, for example, an MIT student namedSteve Mannused to risk ridicule by walking round with&nbsp;what he called "wearable computing" kit, much of it looking like&nbsp;something by Heath Robinson. Over the years, the&nbsp;kit became smaller&nbsp;and the software (much of it written by Mann) became slicker. And the geeky student became adistinguished professorat the University of Toronto.It's too early to say whether the glasses will become transformative. They may turn out to be something that only appeals to early adopters and gadget freaks. But I wouldn't bet on it. And if Google produces a version that can accommodate my bifocals, why, I might even buy them.
For years, the Metal Gear series has focused on methodical stealth action and restrained gunplay. But withMetal Gear Rising: Revengeance, a new creative team is at the helm, and as a result the series has taken a confident new direction. Platinum Games has moulded Metal Gear into an intense roaming brawler where the player must explore vast levels at high speed, all the while engaging in acrobatic melee combat.Rising'sworld is one of a near future where cyborg guns for hire are players in an elaborate thriller, with the narrative running the gamut from ethics to film theory.Metal Gear Risingis as fun as it is fast. Cut scenes switch from sober to silly with delightful effect and the action is spectacular to the point of inspired absurdity.It is also, it must be said, difficult and rarely panders to the player. Weakest when apeing the stealth that has defined Metal Gear games,Risingis otherwise a superb playground for anyone thirsting for action.
General Akamoto is angry. Fresh from being murdered by one of his samurai, he turns up for the afterlife to discover a massive queue to get in. So he does what any wronged general would, and recruits warriors to jump the queue and enact his revenge.ClearlySkulls of the Shogundoesn't take itself seriously. Yet lurking behind its irreverent story, stylish cartoon visuals and self-referential humour is a turn-based strategy game with surprising depth. Beginning proceedings with just four unit types, the game gradually expands over 20&nbsp;levels, allowing players to summon magical monks, recruit new warriors and level-up soldiers and, with battle a fast-paced affair, it makes for an addictive experience.Although tricky in places, seasoned strategy fans won't have any trouble. And while at times the game's control system can prove fiddly, with its clever, accessible single-player and robust multiplayer modes,Skulls of the Shogunis well worth a download.
Sony's video games division have finally revealed the long anticipatedPlayStation 4at a high-profile event in New York. Or rather, they've revealed how the PS4 will function. The actual form the console will takeremains a mystery, but what seems clear is that it will be a powerful machine capable of some very showy graphics.Yet while the first confirmed PS4 titles – such asKillzone: ShadowfallandInfamous: Second Sons– deliver visuals that knock on the door of film CGI, it's the console's other features that offer the most surprising revelations.Sony promises that, as with a smartphone or tablet, the PS4 will boot up and go to sleep instantaneously. It's intended to almost eradicate loading and download times, and the platform is expected to learn how individuals make use of the hardware, streamlining their experience based on their behaviour. The controller, meanwhile, takes the established gamepad form but introduces a touch-sensitive front and a share button for social networking. There's also a sensor bar to allow gesture control as made famous by the Wii.Questions remain, such as how accessible the device will be to independent games studios, but early indications suggest the PS4 will be both a muscular powerhouse and a forward-thinking games machine.
A new global campaign to persuade nations to ban "killer robots" before they reach the production stage is to be launched in the UK by a group of academics, pressure groups and Nobel peace prize laureates.Robot warfare and autonomous weapons, the next step from unmanned drones, are already being worked on by scientists and will be available within the decade, said Dr Noel Sharkey, a leading robotics and artificial intelligence expert and professor at Sheffield University. He believes that development of the weapons is taking place in an effectively unregulated environment, with little attention being paid to moral implications and international law.The Stop the Killer Robots campaign will be launched in April at the House of Commons and includes many of the groups that successfully campaigned to have international action taken against cluster bombs and landmines. They hope to get a similar global treaty against autonomous weapons."These things are not science fiction; they are well into development," said Sharkey. "The research wing of the Pentagon in the US is working on the X47B [unmanned plane] which has supersonic twists and turns with a G-force that no human being could manage, a craft which would take autonomous armed combat anywhere in the planet."In America they are already training more drone pilots than real aircraft pilots, looking for young men who are very good at computer games. They are looking at swarms of robots, with perhaps one person watching what they do."Sharkey insists he is not anti-war but deeply concerned about how quickly science is moving ahead of the presumptions underlying the Geneva convention and the international laws of war."There are a lot of people very excited about this technology, in the US, at BAE Systems, in China, Israel and Russia, very excited at what is set to become a multibillion-dollar industry. This is going to be big, big money. But actually there is no transparency, no legal process. The laws of war allow for rights of surrender, for prisoner of war rights, for a human face to take judgments on collateral damage. Humans are thinking, sentient beings. If a robot goes wrong, who is accountable? Certainly not the robot."He disputes the justification that deploying robot soldiers would potentially save lives of real soldiers. "Autonomous robotic weapons won't get tired, they won't seek revenge if their colleague is killed, but neither will my washing machine. No one on your side might get killed, but what effect will you be having on the other side, not just in lives but in attitudes and anger?"The public is not being invited to have a view on the morals of all of this. We won't hear about it until China has sold theirs to Iran. That's why we are forming this campaign to look at a pre-emptive ban."The idea is that it's a machine that will find a target, decide if it is the right target and then kill it. No human involvement. Article 36 in the Geneva Convention says that any new weapon has to take into account whether it can distinguish and discriminate between combatant and civilian, but the problem here is that an autonomous robot is not a weapon until you clip on the gun."At present, Sharkey says, there is no mechanism in a robot's "mind" to distinguish between a child holding up a sweet and an adult pointing a gun. "We are struggling to get them to distinguish between a human being and a car. We have already seen utter incompetence in the use of drones, operators making a lot of mistakes and not being properly supervised."Last November the international campaign group Human Rights Watch produced a 50-page report,Losing Humanity: the Case Against Killer Robots, outlining concerns about fully autonomous weapons."Giving machines the power to decide who lives and dies on the battlefield would take technology too far," said Steve Goose, arms division director at Human Rights Watch. "Human control of robotic warfare is essential to minimising civilian deaths and injuries."US political activist Jody Williams, who won a Nobel peace prize for her work at the International Campaign to Ban Landmines, is expected to join Sharkey at the launch at the House of Commons. Williams said she was confident that a pre-emptive ban on autonomous weapons could be achieved in the same way as the international embargo on anti-personnel landmines. "I know we can do the same thing with killer robots. I know we can stop them before they hit the battlefield," said Williams, who chairs the Nobel Women's Initiative."Killer robots loom over our future if we do not take action to ban them now," she said. "The six Nobel peace laureates involved in the Nobel Women's Initiative fully support the call for an international treaty to ban fully autonomous weaponised robots."
China is awash with nondescript new office buildings so the 12-storey tower on the outskirts of Shanghai's Pudong area hardly looked likely to cause global headlines. Not even propaganda posters on walls surrounding it or People's Liberation Army guards standing at the gates made the building stand out.Yet last week an American private security firm, Mandiant, based in Virginia, identified it as the headquarters of Unit 61398, a PLA army grouping suspected of waging cyberwarfare. The study revealed that 150 highly sophisticated cyber attacks against targets in the US had originated from inside. Last week international journalists and TV crews suddenly descending on Unit 61398 were chased away, even as an angry Beijing government denied the allegations. One BBC team was briefly detained.But the real story was not the existence of the building or the hackers inside. It was that it was merely the tip of an iceberg of cyberwarfare that is now rising dramatically into view. For years experts have warned of a global epidemic of hacking. But now those dire predictions have come true. It is clear that the world's emerging superpower, China, is now engaged in a battle with an older superpower, the United States. It is a fight raging across the internet in a proxy for the old spy versus spy games of the Cold War: except that it drops honey traps and prisoner exchanges at Checkpoint Charlie in favour of the planting of malware, beating firewalls and hijacking servers.But this new world is not just about rivalries between Beijing and Washington. Other governments or those acting on their behalf, such as India and Russia, are also big players. Huge corporations are being dragged in, trying to defend themselves against a legion of hackers, or as unscrupulous firms poaching the valuable secrets of rivals. And instead of hiding it, they are now speaking out and the cyber-underworld is hoving into view."It is a change of perception. There has been a shift in willingness to make a public disclosure," said Kurt Baumgartner, a senior security researcher at the Moscow-based cyber-security firm Kaspersky Lab.Crime has moved online. From hacking into private computers to access bank details, to scams aimed at the naive promising instant riches, to all-out identity theft, the PC sitting in your house is no longer an innocent device. It is a trapdoor that can lead straight to the darkest corners of the web.  "There is black ice on the internet. There are things out there where there is a tremendous risk to being attacked," said John Strand, a senior instructor at American cyber-security firm Sans, based in Maryland.Where criminals have gone, some fear terrorists might follow. Already the world of cyberwarfare has seen the emergence of powerful "non-state actors" such as WikiLeaks and the "hacktivist" collective known as Anonymous.Both groups fight for their beliefs, using the internet to spread information or act against those that have offended them. But coming behind them might lie other groups with agendas of nationalism or religious extremism that might plot to replace old-fashioned bombs with devastating acts of internet sabotage.This is what Unit 61398 really represents: not just the ambitions of a stirring China, but the growing to maturity of a new ecosystem of warfare, espionage, activism and criminality. Last week a retired CIA director, Michael Hayden, compared it to the dawning of the atomic age at Hiroshima, saying: "This has the whiff of August 1945."As a result of the Mandiant report, published by its founder and chief executive, Kevin Mandia, a retired military cybercrime investigator, we now know about some of the players in this strange new world. The firm built up a portrait of a few of the Chinese hackers it believes work in the Shanghai complex. One was revealed as a retired PLA rear-admiral whose onlinenom de guerreis UglyGorilla. Another apparently had a fondness for the works of JK Rowling, as their answers to a security question featured the (misspelled) name Harry Poter. A third was called SuperHard – perhaps showing that frustrated machismo is universal among geeks whether you are in Shanghai or San Francisco.But such hackers and Unit 61398 are only a tiny part of the action. In recent weeks revelation after revelation has emerged about how prevalent Chinese hacking has become. After publishing details about the wealth of the family of a powerful Chinese politician, theNew York Timeswas targeted for infiltration. TheWashington Postand theWall Street Journalsaid that they too had come under attack, while on Friday Microsoft revealed that its servers had also been hacked – as fellow technology giants Facebook and Twitter have also been this year.The problem does not stop at spying on pesky media outlets. Chinese hackers have relentlessly watched all aspects of Washington. Thinktanks, government agencies, human rights groups and law firms have all been penetrated. ThePostreported the astonishing extent of the activity last week under the headline: "Chinese cyber-spies have hacked most Washington institutions, experts say."The problem is, many experts agree, that is still very easy. Nor does one need to be commanded by Beijing officials to do it. Chinese denials of much hacking activity often have an air of plausibility due to the lack of sophisticated security for many organisations' networks and the fact that individual hackers, motivated by patriotism or simple mischief, can do it. In 2011 one assault was traced to Chinese academic bodies.Of course, China is not the world's only hacker. Few people doubt that American spies and companies give as good as they get. Even though Beijing lurks behind the Great Firewall of China and strictly regulates its internet, the country in 2011 suffered some 500,000 cyber-attacks – with around 15% of them from the US.The most dramatic act of cyber-espionage is believed to have been a joint project by the US and Israel in which the Stuxnet computer virus was used against Iran. One report claimed that the code damaged up to 1,000 centrifuges at Iran's Natanz enrichment plant, which many suspect is key to developing nuclear weapons.Other countries are in on the act too. A report released by the White House last week identified Russia as a major source of hacking. It warned that other countries were also likely to emerge. "One or more fast-growing regional powers may judge that changes in its economic and political interests merit the risk of an aggressive programme of espionage," the report said.In private industry, it appears that cyber-espionage – whether by rivals or criminals – is already the norm. Every year, tens of thousands of hacks hit companies, trying to steal secrets or access data. In one report, Dmitri Alperovitch, of security firm McAfee, based in California, wrote: "I am convinced that every company in every conceivable industry with significant size and valuable intellectual property and trade secrets has been compromised (or will be shortly)."But the real new frontiers of this emerging shadow world lie away from big companies and sovereign states. In the parlance of espionage, they are "non-state actors". Their most famous grouping is perhaps Anonymous, the amorphous grouping of hackers that has adopted a range of causes, attacking websites, individuals and organisations as it sees fit.Some causes are small. Members have leapt to the defence of people being bullied at school, attacking tormentors online and forcing them to apologise.In a recent case of alleged rape by members of the football team in the Ohio town of Steubenville, the group published  claims culled from social media accounts and vowed retribution against the accused and local officials it accuses of covering up a crime.Anonymous has also tangled with huge corporations and law enforcement, launching hacks on their websites. "It has become a global phenomenon," said Fruzsina Eordogh, a freelance technology writer who has covered the activities of the group. "It is becoming more and more mainstream. It won't be called Anonymous any more."Perhaps the scariest aspect of cyber-espionage is how far some might go. Whether a country, a terrorist group or an individual, one possibility looms above all else: an attack on critical infrastructure, such as the power network. That could cause planes to fall out of the sky, cars to crash or power stations to explode. "That is an act of war. It is beyond civilisation," said Professor John Steinbruner from the University of Maryland.Beyond civilisation, perhaps. But no longer beyond belief. Steinbruner believes America, China and other nations should draw up a sort of Geneva conventions of the cyber-sphere, taking certain acts off the table and allowing co-operation to ensure that they never happen.But he is pessimistic about that happening before some sort of catastrophic event forces the issue. "We ought to be doing that. But at the moment we are just waiting for something godawful to happen," he said.
In America, the most expensive TV advertising slots are during the Super Bowl. It cost around $3.8m for 30 seconds this year. But&nbsp;it's thought to be worth&nbsp;it, not just because around 111&nbsp;million people are watching, but also because Super Bowl ads are a bit of a thing – they get talked about. And advertisers like to be talked about (who doesn't?)Kia did one this year, for the Sorento, presumably because it thinks its larger SUV could do well over in the US. And improve the Korean company's reputation for building cheap but cheerless cars.The ad goes like this. A family is driving along in their Sorento. Little boy in the back pipes up. "Dad, where do babies come from?" he asks. Dad tells a story of the planet Babylandia, which is inhabited by babies of all varieties, animals included. When they're ready, they're blasted to Earth by rocket, a&nbsp;journey that takes nine months (even though one of the babies is clearly an elephant and so will presumably arrive dangerously prematurely, while the puppy will be overcooked).What's the message? That Kia drivers kill baby animals as well as being liars? Possibly, though the little boy doesn't fall for it. "But Jake&nbsp;said babies are made when mummies and daddies..." he begins, presumably with the intention of finishing his sentence with a word that begins with an F and rhymes with truck. Quick-thinking Dad interrupts: "Uvo" he says to the car's voice-activated infotainment system, "play Wheels On The Bus".Uvo obeys, and the little boy forgets about birds and bees in order to sing along. I think the message is that this is a family-friendly car with enough toys inside to keep everyone entertained and to get you out of difficult situations when required. Which it is. But the ad backfires because it ends up with an external shot of the car driving along, wheels going round (and round) obviously, accompanied by Wheels On The Bus. It's hard not to think the song is&nbsp;about the car.And, in a way, it is, because the Sorento is basically a bus, as opposed to a truck (no sniggering at the back), which is what the previous Sorento was. The new one has less pulling power (the literal type, for towing horseboxes, etc, not the sort that can lead to making babies) and is more refined. To drive? Yeah, pretty much like a bus. And it's about the size of a&nbsp;bus, too, with lots of seats (seven if you don't need lots of luggage space).Which is all fine in the land of the Super Bowl, where they have and need more space. In the narrow lanes of the Chilterns and in London, it was simply too big. And I wasn't even allowed in the bus lanes.Kia Sorento 2.2 turbodiesel manual 7-seatPrice as tested£29,995 OTRTop speed118mphAcceleration0-60mph in 9.4 secondsCombined fuel economy47.9mpgCO2emissions155g/kmGreen rating5/10Cool rating4/10
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewAlthough it incorporates many of the series' hallmarks – from frequent conversations on the codec to its trademark pseudo-philosophical twaddle about the futility of war – this is Metal Gear reinvented. You may occasionally use a stealthy-ish approach, but its formerly thoughtful pace is replaced by continual super-fast combat in the style of recent, inscrutably plotted Japanese tour de force Bayonetta. Replacing Bayonetta's dodge with a parrying manoeuvre, this is a game where bringing a sword to a gunfight will end in the gunman, his many cohorts, back up vehicles and helicopters being served julienne. But our hero, Raiden, wants to understand what motivates the henchmen he slices up; it's introspection laced with knowing humour, but let down by a dodgy script and wooden acting.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewBungie, creator and former developer of the Halo series, has announced its new game,Destiny, which it describes as a "shared-world shooter". Which means that while it looks like a first-person shooter, it will involve collaborating with other players on missions, though the company is at pains to avoid calling it a massively multiplayer online game, and insists that you can complete it solo. At the Sony conference, at which the PS4 was formally announced, it was also confirmed that Destiny would be appearing on the new console.Games out now includeDynasty Warriors 7: Empires(PS3), which adds a tactical layer on top of the franchise's usual sword-swinging battlefield mayhem,Transport Simulator(PC), letting you experience the unalloyed joy of navigating heavy goods vehicles through busy urban centres, andDragonborn,HearthfireandDawnguard, the three downloadable extensions ofThe Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim,finally available for PlayStation 3. Dragonborn, at least, is well worth the wait.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewCrysis 3 puts you back in the alien-DNA-enhanced nanosuit of the Prophet, a man beset by strange visions as well as a tasty suite of abilities including night vision, brief invisibility or invincibility and the capacity to hack enemy hardware. You'll need all these skills in the fight against the mega-corporation Cell and its gun-toting lackeys, and the squid-like alien Ceph. New York 2.0, a decaying city under an impervious dome, is utterly gorgeous – a real rather than metaphorical urban jungle – with broken skyscrapers merging with steamy rainforest. The characters too not only have stunningly realistic facial animation, but are well acted, believable people. Working through the game's exquisitely designed spaces against seamless enemy AI is never less than utterly absorbing.
The White House has announced that is expanding public access to federally-funded research. The move was heralded as a "landmark" by open-access advocates.A new directive issued on Friday statesthat federal agencies which spend more than $100m in research and development must develop a way to make the results of such federally-funded research publicly available within one year of publication. This is similar to the National Institute of Health's policy, which requires its research to be publicly available a year after it is published."I think at the core of this executive order is a real understanding by the administration of the value of enhancing access to scientific information," said Kenneth Crews, director of Columbia University's copyright advisory office.The government invests billions of dollars in research and Crews said the directive will have major benefits for researchers and regular citizens. "Most of the important research today in the US is the result of federal funding," he said. "The taxpayers definitely have an interest in having access to it."Public support for open-access issues increased after the open-internet advocateAaron Swartz killed himself in January. At the time of his death, Swartz was facing up to 35 years in prison and a $1m fine, for downloading academic journal articles from the JSTOR database.Open-access advocates have campaigned for legislation for nearly a decade. FASTR, a bill that would require federal agencies to make research public within six months of the publication date, was reintroduced in Congress last week."We're happy to see the Obama administration take some direct action to move it forward more quickly than would have been feasible had it moved through the congressional process," Crews said.The White House said it has been looking into the issue for some time, and that an online petition on itsWe The People sitewas one of many factors that influenced the administration's decision.A White House statement said: "The final policy reflects substantial inputs from scientists and scientific organizations, publishers, members of Congress, and other members of the public – over 65 thousand of whom recently signed a We the People petition asking for expanded public access to the results of taxpayer-funded research."Nancy Sims, a copyright librarian at the University of Minnesota and a lawyer, has been hoping for a directive that applies to all federal agencies for several years. "This is definitely something that the University of Minnesota libraries, and I think a lot of research libraries, have been working towards for a long time and its great to see action at the White House level," she said.She said the Swartz case had added momentum to the open-access campaign. "I think that made the research-access question of greater interest to people who would not have been paying attention otherwise and to some politically active people who would not have been paying attention otherwise," she said.Heather Joseph, executive director of SPARC, a group that works to broaden public access to scholarly research,said in a statementthat the directive was a "watershed moment"."The directive will accelerate scientific discovery, improve education, and empower entrepreneurs to translate research into commercial ventures and jobs," Joseph said. "It's good for our nation, our economy, and our future."
David Einhorn has one legal win under his belt in his battle with technology giant Apple.Einhorn, the CEO of hedge fund Greenlight Capital, has been battling Apple on two fronts. The first has been to get the company to return some of its $137bn cash hoard to shareholders. Blocking his path was Apple's attempt to force Einhorn to take the pressure off the company's management and lobby its thousands of shareholders instead. That created Einhorn's second pursuit: to get Apple to change the way it presents voting options to shareholders, before its shareholder meeting on 27 February.It is this second pursuit that has been successful. On Friday, Judge Richard Sullivan granted Einhorn a victory in federal court against Apple. The judge approved an injunction that bars the company from bundling together four different votes for shareholders on a single ballot, known as Proposal 2."It is plain to the Court that Proposal No2 impermissibly bundles 'separate matters' for shareholder consideration," Judge Sullivan said in his decision.Einhorn was racing to get the voting slate changed before the shareholder vote next week. The decision on Proposal 2 lays a path for Einhorn to keep battering Apple's management on his insistence that the company return cash to its investors."This is a significant win for all Apple shareholders and for good corporate governance," read a statement from Greenlight Capital.In a statement, Apple said: "We are disappointed with the court's ruling. Proposal #2 is part of our efforts to further enhance corporate governance and serve our shareholders' best interests. Unfortunately, due to today's decision, shareholders will not be able to vote on Proposal #2 at our annual meeting next week."Einhorn started his campaign to get Apple to create a new class of shares – known as permanent preferred shares, which pay a quarterly dividend for life – several months ago. He has said that the move will boost Apple's stock price by increasing shareholder faith in the company. Earlier this week,Einhorn unveiled a more detailed proposal for Apple to create a new class of stock, known as permanent preferred shares, that would be worth $50 each and pay a $2 dividend every year. Einhorn called the shares "iPrefs", in a nod to Apple products like the iPod and the iPhone.Apple, which has not wanted to let go of its hard-won cash pile, attempted to thwart Einhorn. The company decided to ask its investors to vote on whether it should change its corporate charter so that any issuance of "preferred" shares would require the approval of shareholders and not just management. Those votes are taken and tallied at the shareholder meeting.Apple put that proposal on the same ballot as four unrelated issues, so that shareholders could not vote for each one separately. Einhorn successfully claimed that the move violated the Securities and Exchange Commission rules on shareholder votes.While Einhorn sounded optimistic this week that Apple would carefully consider his proposal, Apple has strongly resisted his overtures. Apple CEO Tim Cook earlier derided the lawsuit as a "silly sideshow" and suggested that Einhorn and others disputing the subject should donate their money to charity instead.The Greenlight Capital statement read: "We look forward to Apple's evaluation of our iPref idea and we encourage fellow shareholders to urge Apple to unlock the significant value residing on its balance sheet."According to court documents, Apple created its plan for Proposal 2 in response to requests by shareholder group ISS, and before Einhorn made his first approach. In addition, the company points out that it has agreed to return billions of dollars to its shareholders through dividends.• This article was amended on 25 February, 2013, to add Apple's statement and clarify their position.
Samsung has finally responded to user and developer complaints about problems caused by a copy-paste bug in its TouchWiz software that it puts on top of Android - but been accused of "lying" by a British developer affected by it.Another user's experience suggests that Samsung is trying to "fix" the problem by trying to remove the ability to copy text on the device.Since June last year, users of Samsung smartphones and tablets have been complaining that apps crash when they try to copy text, and that the only solution is to wipe the apps and data - a "factory reset" of the phone - and reload them. Other users have found that the phone restarts spontaneously.Asked by the Guardian to explain the problem, and the reason for the eight-month delay in fixing it - after users had complained on multiple forums, including Samsung's own Developers forum - the company issued a statement on Friday.It said: "We would like to assure our customers that this issue can only occur in extremely rare circumstances. Furthermore, this issue can be easily and quickly prevented through a regular over-the-air (OTA) software update which began rolling out last year."The company didn't offer any detail about which devices are affected, what the "extremely rare circumstances" are, or how users would be able to recognise whether they have the OTA update installed. Nor did it give any timetable for the rollout.However Terence Eden, who publicised the bug recently in the UK after his Samsung phone was affected by it, had a forthright response to the statement: "Bullshit," he told the Guardian.He added: "t's a lie. They've released nothing for the Note 2. It happens to multiple people on a wide variety of devices. They've provided no information to their customers about this."Eden is running Android 4.1.1, the latest version for the Galaxy Note 2 provided by Samsung, and says that the crash - caused when the user copies text to the clipboard more than a particular number of times - is still present.Another Samsung user, Scott Jones, told the Guardian that on Wednesday he had an update over the air for his Galaxy Tab 2 - and had seen the option to copy text removed."Copy and paste no longer works on [my] Tab 2," he said. "I can no longer copy and paste from a web browser. Only started happening today. Got a Samsung app update and then it stopped… Copy and paste doesn't work in any browser. The option to paste no longer appears in the browser after copying."Konrad Krakowiak, a Samsung developer, acknowledged the bug on 29 October 2012, but there has been no public acknowledgement until today of the problem, and no clear timetable for a fix - nor details about which devices are definitely affected.Eden has produced a video of the crash, which makes his Note 2 go through a "soft restart". Others users have found that apps always crash when they try to copy text unless they do a factory reset - wiping apps and data from their phone.Here's the video
Sony's PlayStation 4 launch event on Wednesday has drawn excitement, criticism and curiosity from the gaming community. While some were intrigued by the company's vision of a powerful PC-like console at the centre of a broad range of connected devices, others were frustrated by the lack of a physical product reveal, and by the familiar range of games on offer.Stage-managing the development and roll-out of the console is Shuhei Yoshida, Sony's head of worldwide studios. A vital cog in the PlayStation R&amp;D machine since the very beginning, Yoshida is a passionate gamer and habitual tweeter, providing a human face to the corporate edifice that is Sony.I got chance to talk to him on Thursday, in his last interview of the day before returning from New York to Tokyo. Here's what he had to say.During the conference on Wednesday, Andrew House [Group CEO of Sony Computer Entertainment] talked about how the PS4 was designed in conjunction with developers. This reminded me of PlayStation 1 and how Sony went around the world visiting studios and gathering opinions. Were you consciously returning to that way of doing things?It's interesting you ask that – and yes, when you look at it that way, we did a similar thing to when we made PS1. We kind of stopped doing that in later years, but this time, we made a conscious decision. Kaz Hirai instructed our development studio to be part of the hardware and platform group for PS4 and PS Vita in 2008. And also SCEI brought in Mark Cerny – who has been our longest partner, all the way back to the Crash Bandicoot days – as the system architect for PS4. He has had some part in the PS Vita development as well.The initial brief from Kaz was, take the ideas and desire from game developers both internally and externally to create the new hardware. Yes, in retrospect, that is similar to our approach with PlayStation 1.What were the fundamental things that developers were asking for? From chatting to a few studios it seems social connectivity was a key element, but then the PC-like architecture has also been mentioned… Were these the two most common requests?Yes, I can say that. Development on PS3 was very hard because of the unique architecture, so we made the decision use a more popular architectures so developers would be able to use the same tools and engines, and make a seamless move to PS4 – that was a big focus. They also wanted a larger amount of system memory as well!Connectivity was a big area, both between players and between devices. Developers are very far ahead in thinking how they can use different platforms and social network services with console games – we thought yes, that's what we want to do as well. These things can be done on the game side, but as with any other network features, gamers don't want to have to set-up lots of different accounts when they play different games. We wanted to provide these features from the system side so that people only have to download the application once, allowing them to connect their iOS and Android handsets to PS4. It's an additional option for developers to create their own dedicated applications on these devices, but I expect more developers will choose to use our app as it's so easy.It was interesting to see the indie game designer Jonathan Blow on stage at your event. How important is it to you to support smaller studios?I believe it's very important for the platform to have a wide variety of developers making things that are unique and creative. We're shifting our platform more and more to the digital side – PS4 will be similar to PS Vita in that every game will be available as a digital download, and some will also be available as a disc. The Witness will be a digital release and because of the flexibility of the digital distribution scheme, we can have more small games that might be free or available for a couple of dollars, or different services like free-to-play or subscription models.On that subject, I really expected you to announce a "Spotify for games"-type service, allowing gamers to sign up and pay a monthly fee to access as many titles as they like. Is that something we can look forward to?As more and more services and contents become available digitally, we'll have more of an option to create attractive packages. So hypothetically we can look at different models – like a cable TV company. We could have gold, silver or platinum levels of membership, something like that. We can do subscription services when we have more content – especially now that we have the Gaikai technology available. With one subscription you have access to thousands of games – that's our dream.What are you hoping to see from developers for launch?From the first-party standpoint we want to have titles that show the unique capabilities of the hardware – that's part of our remit. In terms of the number of titles, we don't control third-party publishers, but they've been working on PS4 games for a long time. I expect many games – that's what we hear from our external development teams! It's not our role to pile on lots more titles.How do you think developers will embrace your five guiding principles of PS4 gaming?These five key principles were the things that developers wanted – they're avid gamers too. They want simplicity and immediacy – it gets frustrating if you have an hour to play and have to spend half of that updating your game. We want to eliminate all of that. Our internal teams are the harshest critics of what we do – so we made immediacy the focus.Some pundits say that consoles are dead or dying, that there's no need for dedicated games machines when we have smart TVs and tablets. How do you answer that?They need headlines! And they want us to say "no, consoles are important" so they can write more stories! Seriously, unless we show something unique and amazing, consumers won't be interested in dedicated hardware because they can play on devices they already own. So if the experience on PS4 is not greater than tablet, why bother? It's our responsibility to provide that, with the hardware and system features as well as game development. The game experience is not just playing, it's talking about games, it's watching other people play - that's all part of the enjoyment and we wanted to make that easier. It's like Media Molecule said – they want to make creativity easy for everyone. well, in the same way, we want to make sharing great moments of gameplay easier.Sony has been criticised for not actually showing the PlayStation 4 at the launch event. Was this because you wanted to save something for E3 or because you still have six different prototypes on your desk and can't decide between them?[Laughs] We have not finalised the hardware yet and decided not to try to get it finished in time. Also, it's a long time from February to launch, we have to design our communication in phases. Our focus here was to show some games and talk about the key principles – we wanted to save the unveiling of the actual console.But is the design of the final console important to Sony? Is it a major consideration?I think if you asked different people within our company that question, you would get different answers! I was criticised when I said, why bother show the case? Who cares? Some said I was disrespecting people's curiosity – I apologise for that. But as a game developer, I'm much more into how the games work, and the controller is crucial for us developers – without the input device we can't make games of the best quality. A box is a box to us! But yes, I appreciate that it's symbolic, people want a games console to look good so they can be proud of owning it and of course our hardware design team are working hard on that.This whole idea of removing the barriers to content seems to be a vital one. People can just switch on a TV and watch a programme, but deciding to play a game can be an arduous process of finding it, downloading it, downloading updates … Do you think that can all be consigned to the past?Absolutely. Yes. I find myself spending more time playing Vita games and I think part of the reason for that is it's immediate. I can stop at any time without quitting and it's instantaneous to start again. I don't have to quit out or reboot. It's wonderful. That's one part of immediacy – the other is waiting for downloads. That's ridiculous, that's crazy! We want to get out of this madness with PlayStation 4. The games are big, they're 50GB; download isn't instantaneous. So we're making purchase available from any device, so when you're at work, you can spend a couple of moments looking at PlayStation Store and choosing a game, and straight away it starts to download at home. It may take a couple of hours but that's okay because you're still at work.Also, similarly to progressive download on some movie services, you don't have to wait for all the data to download before you start playing. Once you have the minimum amount of data downloaded you can begin the game, and while you play, the remaining data downloads. It takes some engineering input from developers so we're talking to the community. We're evangelising it.We've seen a lot of familiar brands – it seems that shoot-'em-ups and driving games are still dominating. But I love games like Journey and Tokyo Jungle – how important is it that you ensure developers can explore offbeat concepts?I love these kinds of games! My top three favourite games last year were Journey, Tokyo Jungle and Sound Shapes. They're wonderful games. I spend lots of times tweeting about these games – I wish more people knew about them! What we're doing with PS4 is we're trying to serve the right content to the right people. So Sound Shapes and Tokyo Jungle might not be for everyone, but there are certain people who love those types of games – once we know you like games like Tokyo Jungle, when a game like that comes out, we can push it onto your main screen, and suggest you try it – that's what we mean by personalisation. We want more games like this on PSN, but these games have to reach the right people in order to be successful. We want to use our network services to achieve that.If you need any ideas for Tokyo Jungle 2, I have a lot.(Laughs) Well you know, the beauty of these games is that we never make sequels – there will be no Journey 2, I don't think. These developers tend to want to do new things.In a year's time, what will the PS4 gaming experience look like?In a couple of years I'd like to be playing PS4 games on all my devices, with the main experience on the big screen, and smaller sections on mobile screens … It will all be connected.
US prosecutors have postponed the sentencing of "Sabu" - real name Hector Xavier Monsegur – who led the LulzSec hacking crew during the summer of 2011 while working as a double agent for the FBI.Monsegur was due to appear at a Manhattan federal court on Friday for sentencing on ten counts of hacking, one of bank fraud, and one of identity theft, which together carried a maximum penalty of 124 years.But the sentencing was put off without explanation – though Monsegur had been expected to be given only a suspended sentence after having pleaded guilty to the charges in August 2011.At the time he was still operational as a member of LulzSec, the group which hacked into sites belonging to the CIA, Serious Organised Crime Agency, Sony Pictures Europe and News International during that summer.But unbeknownst to the other members of the group, he had been arrested and charged by the FBI on 7 June 2011 in his apartment in the Bronx. Faced with a colossal jail term – while responsible for looking after his two young nieces – Monsegur chose to cooperate. The FBI provided him with a computer and phone which was permanently monitored, and which then allowed the detection and capture of other hackers – including those behind theStratfor hack.Posting on Twitter as "The Real Sabu", Monsegur had a combative style, and proclaimed a fierce dislike of the authorities.But his FBI handlers said he was "brilliant, but lazy": they discovered him selling stolen credit card details on Facebook, and traced him to his home when he used an unguarded internet connection to go on the 2600.com site, which is popular with young and old hackers.The indictments cover the period between December 2010 and May 2011, and cover the hacking of sites belonging to the Tunisian, Algerian, Yemeni and Zimbabwe governments, "DDOS attacks" on Paypal, Visa and Mastercard, sites belonging to Fox News, the Chicago Tribune newspaper site, Sony Pictures Europe, Sony Music Entertainment, PBS, Nintendo, security company Unveilance, the US Senate, and video games company Bethesda Softworks.He also hacked computers belonging to an auto parts company and had four vehicle motors worth $3,450 sent to his address in New York for free. He used more than a dozen stolen credit card details to make a number of purchases worth more than $1,000, the floor level for higher penalties under the federal code.No date has been given for the postponed sentencing.
Sony hasrevealed its latest games console– the cunningly titled PlayStation 4. Well – "revealed" might not be the most accurate word as they didn't show us the actual console, or the price. Or the release date. All that stuff is probably being saved for the E3 games exhibition in Los Angeles, where Sony will have to compete in a technological dance-off with Microsoft, which also has a new console in the works.Wednesday's launch event did at least hint at PS4's "re-imagination of the gaming experience". It will include deep social connectivity, a clever new joypad with its own touchpad, and an online game store that should let you start playing new titles as soon as they start downloading. All very intriguing.But what about the games? Well, here are the highlights of what has been announced so far …Knack (Sony Japan)This rather eccentric sci-fi action adventure was the first title shown on the night – and Sony may well live to regret that. You control a little creature that can use different relics to transform into a giant battle droid – now you must defend humanity from, erm, goblins. It's clearly a light-hearted family title, and designer Mark Cerny worked on classics such as Sonic the Hedgehog 2 and Jak and Daxter, so there's potential. But its delicate charms were difficult to convey in front of a baying crowd of hardcore games writers.Excitement rating: 3/5Killzone: Shadow Fall (Guerrilla Games)The long-running series of intergalactic space shooters returns with another visually spectacular face-off between the Vektans and the Helghast. Now though, these belligerent offshoots of the human race are somehow living in the same city, divided by a huge wall. It's just like cold war Berlin – but with more laser cannons. This launch title will be a major graphical showcase for the new hardware, but from the laboured demo, filled with exploding buildings and screaming civilians, it's running low on ideas if not ammunition.Excitement rating: 2/5Driveclub (Evolution Studios)Every new console needs a sleek, sexy racing sim, and here's the latest marque from Evolution Studios, the creator of the popular Motorstorm series. It's (yet) another urban driving game mixing hot licensed cars with gorgeous city locations. The difference here is that gamers recruit their friends into racing teams and then compete against other groups online. Frankly, we're going to need a much better idea of what that entails: Evolution claims that it has been waiting nine years to make this title, but that the tech is only now available to do it. The big question: why?Excitement rating: 3/5The Witness (Jonathan Blow)Very few people were expecting to see thoughtful, introspective indie designer Jonathan Blow take to the stage at a major games console launch, but there he was on Wednesday, revealing that his long-awaited adventure puzzler would be coming to PS4. Set on an uninhabited island, it's an idiosyncratic game of exploration featuring a series of increasingly complex mazes. Set to be a timed exclusive for Sony's new console, this was clearly on show to bolster the company's experimental credentials.Excitement rating: 5/5Deep Down (Capcom)Someone at Sony must have said: "We need to show something with dragons in. Dragons are so hot right now." Because, lo and behold, both Capcom and Square Enix showed tech demos of fantasy adventures with enormous fire-breathing monsters. Capcom's was the more intriguing, though, with its heavily armoured medieval knights doing battle against lots of really advanced lighting effects. The trailer showed a glimpse of PlayStation 4's new social features, with one player using an in-game messaging system to ask a friend for help on a difficult section. It also looks a lot like Capcom's hugely underrated Dragon's Dogma title, as well as Namco hit Dark Souls. People really do like slaughtering dragons these days – which is fine as long as they don't end up in a lasagne.Excitement rating: 4/5Watchdogs (Ubiosft Montreal)In a near-future version of Chicago, society is controlled by a sentient computer system – that is until dissident computer hacker Aiden Pearce breaks into the network and begins to take control. Ubisoft's paranoid cyberpunk thriller is also coming to Xbox 360 and PS3, but the PS4 version will apparently be enhanced with lots of new content. The interesting bit is that you can view information on any passing pedestrian, prying into their personal data and maybe saving them from crime – sort of Julian Assange meets Spider-Man. That sounded better in my head.Excitement rating: 4/5Unnamed Media Molecule project (Media Molecule)Guildford-based studio Media Molecule created the wonderful physics platformer LittleBigplanet, and for PlayStation 4 the team is preparing what looks to be a motion controlled creative tool. Players will be able to use the Move controller to draw 3D objects and environments – we're just not sure what for yet. However, the developer's demo showed them controlling two virtual puppets in a song and dance routine, so they scored bonus points for that.Excitement rating: 4/5  (confusion rating 5/5)Destiny (Bungie)We already knew about this vastly ambitious new project from the makers of the multi-million selling Halo series – it's been the subject of some rather frosty games coverage recently. That's not because it looks bad (it doesn't; it looks like another spectacular post-apocalyptic space adventure), but because Activision just took a bunch of games journalists over to the US to see the game, then played a short trailer, refused to answer any questions, and sent everyone home again. Anyway, like Watchdogs, this one is coming out on current consoles, too, but PS4 will get extra stuff. Whatever this game is, it is going to be BIG and will have a dynamic world where gameplay missions emerge from physics systems and intelligent enemies rather than a hackneyed script by someone who once worked on Babylon Five. This is progress.Excitement rating: 5/5
Mozilla, the maker of the Firefox web  browser, will on Sunday launch its first smartphone operating system and the handsets on which it will run in a bid to shake up the mobile industry.Aimed at the developing world, where Apple's iOS and Google's Android have yet to capture the market, Firefox OS will run on handsets made by Chinese companies ZTE, Alcatel One Touch and others, costing less than £100.Networks from across the globe, including Telefónica, which is big in Europe and Latin America, as well as Sprint in the US and Etisalat in Africa and the Middle East, will use the annual Mobile World Congress trade show in Barcelona next week to announce their launch plans for the Firefox phones. Working the floors to persuade the all-important apps producers to back his project will be the Mozilla Corporation chief executive, Gary Kovacs.At first glance he seems sure to fail. The world of personal computers has&nbsp;only ever had two operating systems that mattered, and smartphones are following the same&nbsp;pattern. Apple's iOS and Google's Android hold an 85% share of the market, and Microsoft and BlackBerry are in a fight&nbsp;to the death to establish themselves as alternatives. Do we need a fifth operating system?"We won't, over time," says Kovacs. "Right now the mobile world is busy and it's because there is so much economic value to be gained by owning the platform. We're not trying to get in the middle of an operating-system fight; what we are trying to do is be the catalyst to drive more development around the open web."Credit: Guardian graphicsMozilla Corporation is the commercial arm of the not-for-profit Mozilla Foundation, created in 2003 to safeguard what it calls the "open web", and the aim of its interventions is to change the behaviour of big corporations in a way that benefits consumers.Starting in Latin America, Asia and Africa, working with developers whose customers live in thefavelasand shanty towns and townships, Mozilla aims to foment revolution which, if it succeeds, will filter back to the west.It took 22 years for the first 2 billion people to connect to the web, but the next 2&nbsp;billion will jump online in just five years, said Kovacs, and when they do so, it will be not via desktop computers but mobile phones.He thinks the revolution must begin with apps and the app stores. Under the model pioneered by Apple, and followed by its commercial rivals, each smartphone platform has an app store. Anyone selling content in that store hands over a 30% commission to its owner, and typically 30% of any further in-app purchases, such as new levels in a game.If the customer changes phones, particularly if they switch from, for example, Android to Apple, their apps won't transfer. This applies to music, games, books, photos, calendars – the content we buy and create on our phones does not truly belong to users.For developers, rewriting code so their content can appear on all four platforms is expensive and time-consuming. For small developers of local content in emerging nations it is unaffordable.Kovacs believes app stores can never hope to reproduce the richness of the open internet – Netcraft estimates there were 633m websites in the world in December, up by 78m on the year before, written in a multitude of languages."The people who suffer are the users, because ultimately the content available to them is limited," he says. "There is no strong commercial reason for somebody other than us to focus on a [common] standards approach. They make more money by locking others out."Mozilla's solution is Firefox OS, running web apps, written in the HTML5 programming language already used to present content on the web. Web apps have some prominent advocates; the Financial Times, unhappy about sharing revenues and customer data, bypasses the Apple store and has users download its own app direct from its own site. Firefox will have an app store – which will charge a nominal commission – but it expects most apps to be downloaded directly from other websites or  other app stores.Kovacs believes Firefox OS does not need a massive market share to change the way smartphones are designed. "As we get into the 10-15% range, people will have to listen, they'll see this thing is picking up steam and they'll see this is the way."Mozilla has changed web users' behaviour once before, with its browser. Firefox has 450m users worldwide, and was until last year the second most popular in the world after Internet Explorer.They have both been overtaken by Google's Chrome. Firefox arrived in 2004, at a time when a lack of common standards meant not every website could be read by all browsers. Its popularity forced others to change. It also brought a lucrative cross-promotion deal.Mozilla receives $300m a year in return for making Google the default search engine on its Firefox browser, and one can imagine a similar arrangement for Firefox OS. This means Kovacs treads a difficult path; he is dependent on Google for 85% of Mozilla's income but is taking on Android. How does he square that?"We didn't launch Firefox so everybody came over to it, we launched Firefox to show a way that put the user at the&nbsp;centre."
