Samsung&apos;slatest flagship Android smartphone, the Galaxy S5, won&apos;t be available to buy until Friday, but the first reviews have arrived – though not with quite the universal praise you might expect. (The Guardian&apos;s own review will be published this week.)Samsung bet big on health tracking, a fingerprint scanner and a big screen with the Galaxy S5 - but the early verdict is that only some of it has paid off.Here&apos;s what people are saying.TechRadar:Samsung Galaxy S5 review – Samsung goes for evolution over revolution... again.Gareth Beavis feels the Galaxy S5 is simply an evolution and &quot;doesn&apos;t look like a cutting edge smartphone&quot;, but ultimately that won&apos;t matter when it comes to sales.Is it good enough in market that&apos;s becoming saturated with decent high-end handsets?The simple answer, from the second you hold it in the hand, is no – because the design simply isn&apos;t up to the same level as the likes of Apple and HTC.Is this phone good enough to keep Samsung fighting with Apple at the top of the sales charts? Yes, but that&apos;s mostly through the impressive marketing machine that rolls out in every territory.CNet:High five: Samsung&apos;s best phone gets betterJessica Dolcourt also considers Samsung&apos;s latest efforts iterative, but concludes that isn&apos;t necessarily a bad thing if you&apos;re a Samsung fan.With the exception of a few nonessential hardware and software additions - like the fingerprint scanner and novel heart-rate monitor - and a few design tweaks, you&apos;re pretty much looking at the same phone Samsung released in 2013. The S5 is more of a Galaxy S4 Plus than it is a slam-the-brakes, next-generation device; it makes everything just a little smoother and faster.TNW:Samsung Galaxy S5 review: Incremental is the new coolOwen Williams feels that despite coming across poorly in photos, the dimpled leather-like back of the Galaxy S5 is actually a bonus, or at least a distraction from plastic.The dimpled back is one of the most contentious points of the phone amongst those online, though, and looks somewhat unattractive in photos. I was won over when I actually held the device for the first time, as opposed to seeing it in photos and renders; it’s attractive and feels nice. By adding these dimples and a rubbery texture to the back, Samsung manages to distract you from the fact that it’s actually just plastic.AnandTech:Samsung Galaxy S5 reviewAnand Lal Shimpi and Joshua Ho were pleased to report that Samsung&apos;s stopped cheating in benchmarks, and unsurprisingly the Galaxy S5 is faster than the the previous generation thanks to the newest flagship processor from Qualcomm.Although Samsung was the first major OEM to be caught cheating in Android benchmarks, it appears to have completely abandoned the practice with the Galaxy S5&apos;s shipping software. Not only was I unable to find any evidence of the old cheats, I couldn&apos;t find any evidence of HTC&apos;s new subtle cheating either. The Galaxy S5 appears to be clean as far as I can tell. Kudos to Samsung on doing the right thing, and I hope all other OEMs take this as a sign to stop the silliness.The GS5 sees upgrades across the board compared to its predecessor. The underlying silicon is both faster and more power efficient. The battery is larger, and battery life has improved dramatically thanks to silicon and display upgrades. Much like the gains we saw with HTC&apos;s M7 to M8 transition, anyone who is on a Snapdragon 600 based device today is going to be incredibly happy upgrading to a Snapdragon 801 platform like the GS5.Wall St Journal:Samsung Galaxy S5 review: watertight yet still not quite rightGeoffrey Fowler reckons Samsung has made some ground on software, but there&apos;s still a long way to go.The Galaxy S5 is easier to use than the S4. Samsung is playing down a long list of the dubious and confusing services it touted with the previous model, like &quot;air gesture&quot; controls to manipulate the screen without touch. It also no longer pre-installs some space-hogging apps like the Samsung Hub for buying music and video.A few of the Galaxy S5&apos;s software tweaks might make iPhone users envious, such as using keywords to search the ever-growing list of Android settings. My favorite feature, &quot;ultra power savings mode,&quot; turns off nonessential services when battery-power is low and you want to preserve juice for phone service.Samsung still needs to keep simplifying the interface. At the top edge of the screen, a dozen different blinking icons call attention to things you don&apos;t always need to know about. And for many basic functions, such as Web browsing, viewing pictures, even taking voice commands, the Galaxy S5 comes preloaded with two different apps. Good grief, does anyone really need the built-in &quot;gallery&quot; and &quot;photo&quot; apps?Time:Galaxy S5 review: at last, Samsung decides less is moreHarry McCracken agrees.Much of what’s new in the S5 isn’t all that inventive, but involves stuff that every smartphone owner cares about, such as physical durability, display and camera quality and battery life. And though the overall experience doesn’t reach Apple-esque levels of polish – it melds Google’s Android 4.4 KitKat operating system with a bevy of Samsung’s own customizations – there’s less of the cacophony and clutter which has marred many a past Galaxy device.Pocket-Lint:Samsung Galaxy S5 reviewChris Hall says the fingerprint scanner works well enough, if you ignore the instructions.At first we didn&apos;t get on with the Galaxy S5&apos;s fingerprint scanner because much of the device assumes you&apos;re using it two handed. We rarely are. We&apos;re standing on a train, queuing with shopping, hanging onto a tantrumming child, ingesting curry, and so on. Rarely do we have the luxury of having two free hands to interact with a phone.The point is that the Samsung&apos;s fingerprint scanner suggests a full straight swipe with a finger or thumb in setup. In reality you&apos;ll be gripping your phone and swiping your thumb sideways down it in an attempt to unlock it. Fortunately, that works. The orientation of the unlocking finger doesn&apos;t matter, as long as you register that print in the same way then you&apos;ll actually unlock the phone.Telegraph:Samsung Galaxy S5 review: almost brilliantMatt Warman feels that Samsung&apos;s still overreaching, and some things could have been better if scaled back a bit or given more time.So the S5 is a largely incremental improvement. But if anything it suffers from the scale of its ambition – that fingerprint sensor isn’t quite ready for prime time, and flashy animations on openings folders are slightly slow. The camera’s supposed ability to refocus pictures after they’ve been taken is temperamental, and far surpassed by LG and HTC. All these features would be great if they worked better.Overall the conclusion at the moment seems to be that Samsung&apos;s made some very small steps with the Galaxy S5, adding a few features andcutting others, but that there is still come way to go to beat the highs of the Galaxy S2 and S3.The GS5 was pushed out a couple of weeks earlier in Samsung&apos;s product lifecycle after its predecessor, the Galaxy S4,failed to continue to increase Samsung&apos;s sales performance. Whether the Galaxy S5 is enough to counter that slow in sales and growth remains to be seen.•Samsung Galaxy S5 - in pictures
On a rooftop in Downtown LA, eight young men are preparing to fight each other for $400,000. There are hundreds of people gathered around watching, and many thousands more will tune in via an online video feed. Right now, the competitors are selecting from a range of assault rifles and submachine guns – they will need to match these carefully with smoke and frag grenades if they are to stay alive. But whatever happens, there will be a lot of death.Fortunately, this is not a horrifying real-life take on the Hunger Games, it is the final match in theCall of Duty World Championships, a pro-gaming event pitching 32 teams against each other for a total prize pool of $1m. The venue is a gigantic tent on the top of a multistorey car park at the LA Live centre. Outside, the sun beats down on the city&apos;s boundless concrete sprawl, but in here there is an all-enveloping artificial darkness, punctuated only by dozens of huge screens, each showing the biggest first-person shooter in the world.Now in its third year, the Call of Duty Championship provides one of the highlights on the professional gaming – or &quot;esports&quot; – calendar in the US. The players taking part are the best in the world; they have qualified through a series of regional heats in their home countries, and for the last month, many of them have been practising for eight hours a day, often in houses rented with their team mates. The one thing you learn very quickly about CoD at this level is that it is a team sport – every match involves two sides, each of four players, battling through a series of punishing encounters. Victory doesn&apos;t just go to the competitors with the quickest trigger fingers, it goes to the one&apos;s who communicate with their comrades most effectively. Information is as vital a currency as ammunition.All of which contrasts heavily with the cliche about this game series: that it involves little more than running around the map with a gun, blasting wildly at anything in combat fatigues. Maybe that&apos;s true of casual players who buy the latest Call of Duty every year then flock online in their millions to compete on public servers. But it is not true here. Here, it is all about structure and strategy. It is about dedication. “Ever since we qualified it’s been non-stop playing,” says Seth &quot;Scumpii&quot; Abner of OpTic Gaming, one of the most popular teams in the modern scene – the Barcelona of CoD. “We actually had a LAN set up at our team house in Chicago and we flew out the team that won the US qualifiers, Strictly Business. We played for three days straight against them. It was a ton of fun, but it was work.”Formation and psychologyA pro-team in Call of Duty consists of two types of combatants: &quot;slayers&quot; who tend to use assault rifles and are there to kill as many opponents as possible, and objective-orientated players who carry out the activities demanded by the three different game modes used in the tournament. All of these modes require very different approaches, all have different rhythms of action and encounter. In &quot;Domination&quot;, for example, teams have to capture and hold the three flag points spread around the map, while in &quot;Blitz&quot;, it&apos;s about running through a portal in the opponent&apos;s base to score goals.&quot;Search and Destroy&quot;, however, is the most gripping mode and the tactical zenith of competitive Call of Duty – it’s where most matches are won or lost. While one side has to plant a bomb, the other must either stop them, or defuse the explosive before it goes off. There are no respawns, so when a player dies, they’re out of the round. It is ridiculously tense; a cat and mouse game played out amid sniper fire and grenades tossed with pinpoint accuracy.Interestingly though, the tactical face-off begins before a shot is even fired. At the opening of each match the computer randomly picks the maps that players will compete on, but each team gets to veto a certain number of the options – inevitably, they will try to block the maps they know their rivals prefer. It is psychological warfare; everyone knows what their competitors like and dislike because all the teams spend hours researching upcoming opponents, working out their play styles and preferences, their movement patterns, and preparing counter attacks. Nothing is left to chance.Once in a match, a pro-CoD foursome works like a football team. The slayers are the midfielders, working all over the map to set up plays and break down opponent attacks; the objective players are the strikers, carving their way into beneficial positions and scoring the goals. The best sides move as one, fanning out across the map, covering every channel and constantly watching each other&apos;s backs. They talk endlessly, calling out their own positions as well as the exact whereabouts of any enemies they&apos;ve sighted. Every team member learns the various game maps by heart, memorising every minuscule graphical detail, every window and doorway, every hiding place. All of the maps in CoD have around 50 positions where players will &quot;respawn&quot; when they&apos;ve been shot – players learn all of these too.It&apos;s up the the team captain to devise the strategies – or simply &quot;strats&quot; – that will be followed in any match. Each player knows the area of the map that they need to operate in, and will stay there until ordered out. The aim is always &quot;map control&quot;, forcing opposing players into a small area so they can be picked off as soon as they appear – a technique known as &quot;spawn trapping&quot;. Another key element is &quot;rotation&quot; – if a player in a key position is shot, another will rotate into that area until his comrade respawns and takes up the point again. In football, if a player is injured or sent off, the formation is altered to close the gap; rotation works in the same way.Complex examplesBeyond the basic techniques, there are also bluffs to play, and “bait and switch” tactics to perfect. Another aspect of the rotation concept crops up in Search and Destroy, where the bomb-planting team often tries to fool the other side into defending one bomb site, when it’s actually the other that’s being targeted. The attacking players will swap positions, circle key areas, throw distracting explosives and smoke grenades – all to disguise their true destination. Everything is planned, yet fluid, and the changes come in split-second bursts.If you want to understand the beauty of synchronised movement in Call of Duty, you need to watch CompLexity, the slickest team in the game. Its four members move with balletic precision, bursting out across the landscape, gracefully arching toward Domination points like sharks circling an injured seal. Whenever one player is attacked, another is either near enough or positioned well enough to intercede; and they are mercilessly efficient hitmen. While many teams have one or two key assassins, CompLexity functions like the Holland 1974 world cup side, with every player able to adopt any position and any tactic, racking up caps and kills in the process. It is Total Slaughter.“We came into the tournament with the goal of not dropping a single tournament,” says Patrick &quot;Aches&quot; Price during a typically confident press conference. “When we talk amongst ourselves backstage, we say, ‘come on this is our time, this is our territory’. When we’re winning, we’re just yelling ‘run ‘em up, run ‘em up’, which means run the scoreboard up. We just want to beat them as bad as we can. When we play tournaments we want to deliver the following message - we are the best team.”Team performancesThrough the course of the three day event, which starts out as a league competition before moving into a gruelling &quot;double elimination&quot; knock-out phase, there are many star performances and many incredibly gripping confrontations. The Australian teams Immunity and Trident T1 Dotters surprise everyone, putting in some gritty battles against highly experienced US favourites. There are compelling moments from the UK representatives too, especially TCM and Epsilon. The latter shines in a rip-roaring league match against Team Optic; slayers Swanny and Jurd dominate with multiple long-range headshots, teased through the narrowest of sightlines.“The round two match between EnVyUS and Epsilon was a real thriller,” says Chris Marsh, of esports news and community site,Decerto. “EnVyUS, the eventual runners up, found themselves dumped into the Loser Bracket in the first round and in unfamiliar territory. After beating the heavily favoured Team KaLiBeR, they then had to take on Epsilon. Both teams had big ambitions, EnVyUS carrying the weight of their bulging fan base and Epsilon holding the hopes and ambitions of the UK and Europe. Definitely my game of the tournament.“Also, the Winner Bracket final between CompLexity and OpTic Gaming was entertaining because it was so close. The teams traded off map after map until they were tied at 2-2. They were barely separable throughout the match up, with the first Search and Destroy and Blitz both being decided by a mere one point. But then CompLexity moved into another gear and gave OpTic a bit of a lesson on how to play Warhawk SnD. Crimsix shone picking up 11 kills without dying.”Watching the killingAs a spectator sport, the experience is hugely accentuated by the addition of a special viewing mode named Oracle. It allows match commentators - or CoDcasters – to scroll through and display the first-person perspective of any player they choose, while the positions of enemies are shown as glowing outlines. The idea is to give fans the best view of all the key skirmishes, whether they’re in the venue watching on the cinema-sized main screen or at home catching the live feed. Meanwhile, at least two CoDcasters are commenting on each match in a style clearly influenced by US sports broadcasting – if they’re not excitedly relating key moments, they’re analysing tactics and statistics at breakneck speeds.&quot;Think of it as a football commentator but with more screaming,” says UK caster, Alan Brice. “Every caster has their own style – some are really enthusiastic, some are more analytical, looking to break down every move. And you have to be able to remember all the sport’s key moment – like the final of last year&apos;s tournament, with Proofy vs Killa, which was basically decided by a $1m bullet. You need to be able to pull that stuff out, to build the storyline.”The drama isn&apos;t entirely contained within the onscreen skirmishes. Competitive gaming is rife with inter-team rivalries and personal feuds, which tend to explode when a player leaves one side – or is chucked out – and then joins another. Team OpTic star Clayster, for example, was at CompLexity for almost a year and his arrival with the team arguably kickstarted its incredible run of seven tournament victories. But then in December, he was moved out of the squad in favour of Karma and resentment has simmered. On the closing Sunday of the event, in a decisive match between the two teams, Clayster manages to shoot his ex-captain Aches, then proceeds to empty his gun into the prone avatar – a classic Call of Duty diss. Later, Merk from EnVyUs takes obvious delight in his side’s victory over OpTic – the team that ditched him in September. “I’m sure they miss me,” he says on stage with a wry smile; the crowd cheers in recognition of the slight.Money gameIf the rivalries are becoming more intense, there&apos;s a convincing explanation: the stakes are getting higher. A few years ago, prize pots were in the hundreds of dollars and most kids were in it for fun, but now this is big business. In South Korea, strategy simulations like Starcraft and League of Legends are effectively the national sports; tournaments are watched on TV by millions and the players are superstars on six-figure salaries.The West is a little behind, but it&apos;s getting there. Formed in 2002, the Major League Gaming organisation runs big prize tournaments throughout world and has collaborated with Activision on the CoD World Championships. “There are millions of people a month watching competitive esports,” says co-founder Mike Sepso. “I think that surprises a lot of people. Generally speaking this is the first content category in the entire media landscape that has got TV level viewership without having to rely on traditional television distribution – it is a digital sport with a digital broadcast model. The audience is growing every year. And while the traditional sports leagues – the NFL, NBA, etc – are on a downslide with younger demographics, esports is rising. We’re getting to them on Xbox and through the internet, we’re going directly to where they live.”Gaming teams are now run as professional organisations, owned and managed by businessmen who offer decent salaries to the best players. It&apos;s a serious investment: good teams are able to secure lucrative sponsorship deals with the sorts of brands desperate to reach a generation of teenagers who no longer watch TV or read magazines. All the players at the world championships wear official team shirts festooned with the logos of energy drinks, tech firms and joypad manufacturers. “Esports has shown incredible growth the last few years and it provides potential sponsors a number of great opportunities to get involved from the ground up,” says Andrew Holt-Kentwell, the global associate esports manager for gaming hardware manufacturer, Razer, which sponsors several teams and tournaments. “A recent report by SuperData Research showed a monthly figure of 70 million unique individuals watching esports across the world each month, rivalling even the most popular traditional sports.“The teams are interesting because of the personalities that resonate with other players – people like Peter ‘Doublelift’ Peng from Counter Logic Gaming, or Lee ‘Flash’ Young Ho from KTRolster. These guys are hugely famous in their own right and command the respect of hundreds of thousands of fans across the world.”Social statusFinancial success as a pro-player isn&apos;t just about performing well in the game, it&apos;s about establishing a personal brand across multiple social media platforms. To really make it, these young men need to acquire a weird status that combines athlete, gamer and TV celebrity. While they&apos;re not competing, they are making YouTube videos or streaming content on the gaming media site Twitch. &quot;Social media and content creation are a way to not only market your brand, but your players as well,&quot; says Jonathan Boyd, owner of the VexX Gaming team. &quot;This allows people to connect with those players on a more personal level and hopefully helps create true fans of your brand and team.&quot;Most pro-gamers share tips on how to be a better player, or provide analysis of recent matches, or just goof around on screen, while sharing jokes with fans on Twitter. Nadeshot from Team Optic is not the best player on the pro-scene, but his geeky charm and relentless social media presence has earned him a huge fanbase; one insider tells us he&apos;s earning $20k a month from his YouTube videos alone.&quot;Nadeshot and I got into Optic at the same time,” says Ashley, also known as MiDNiTE, who makes YouTube and Twitch videos for the team. “I watched him starting out on Youtube and he just ended up being really good at it. It was a steady growth for a while, but then Black Ops 2 came out and the scene for competitive Call of Duty just, like, blew up – and Nadeshot was always streaming, I mean he was streaming for eight hours a day, he&apos;s been doing that for four years now, just dedicated to that grind. He&apos;s so consistent. And he has a good personality – he&apos;s kind of goofy, he&apos;s likeable. The reason he&apos;s so successful is, he&apos;s just that kid you think you know.”As a female member of Optic, Ashley is aware she is in a tiny minority. There are no women competing in this competition, although therearedozens around, spectating, cheering on their boyfriends, or here as journalists or presenters. “You’d think it would be difficult, but if you do it correctly, you receive the right attention,” she says. “If you represent yourself in a sexual way, you&apos;re going to get that kind of sexual or negative attention. But if you take it seriously, if you take yourself seriously within the community, other people will take you seriously as well. I feel very outnumbered at events like this - there are a LOT of men. But it doesn&apos;t make me feel weird at all - I don&apos;t feel like I&apos;m looked at as not equal.&quot;It is, however, subtly telling that Ashley automatically thinks about representation; that women in this environment have to consider how they portray themselves and what their appearance implies to their male peers. It is indicative of a wider malaise in game culture, where high profile women developers, gamers and writers are frequently subject to sexist and misogynistic abuse on forums and in social media. This is something that needs to change. Meanwhile, one team competing here, the Lightning Pandas, writes in its social media profiles that it&apos;s the first all-gay CoD side, but later concedes this is just “a joke” – because, of course, being gay is funny. It’s a shame that esports seemingly hasn’t just borrowed the glitz and conventions of traditional televised sports, it has the same mono-cultural hang-ups too.But then this is a very young phenomenon. Most of the players, and even the team managers themselves, are in their early twenties or late teens. Older team owners take on a sort of parental role – Toby Parrish, who runs the Mutiny squad as well as three others, puts the players up at his home during competitions – he and his wife cook and clean for them.At 25, Raymond Lussier of EnVyUS is one of the oldest participants in the championship and his demeanour is that of a thoughtful elder statesman. Operating under the ironic team name, Rambo, he compares Call of Duty to chess, perhaps seeing similarities in the way the best players seek to dominate the map, restricting the movements of their opponents. Whatever the case, his reference to a board game immediately sets him apart.Indeed, there were some who thought that he was too old to be here. However deep the tactics go, the game remains heavily reliant on lightning fast reflexes – that twitchy intensity that fades as you approach thirty. But he has modified his play style and takes a defensive position, hanging back in map sectors where a mature head often works better. Outside of play, he is a sober presence amid a constant flurry of bro fists and chest bumps. In five years time, perhaps the scene will have more of these assured figures, and more women competitors, to broaden the culture a little.The end, the beginningComplexity takes it in the end. An anti-climactic final sees the team beating EnvyUS 3-0, the latter side clearly exhausted by its comparatively punishing route to the final. Later, the victorious team stands on the main stage grasping a giant cheque for $400,000 as ticker tape rains down. During the final the names of the competing sides were trending worldwide on Twitter. You may not know these guys but millions do, and according to SuperData, the average fan is watching sports 19 times a month, for 2.2 hours at a time. No wonder that beyond this rooftop tent there is a growing pantheon of eager sponsors and of game publishers desperate to get their titles onto the professional roster.There will be another tournament in a few weeks and most of these teams will be back, blasting each other across Call of Duty’s complex, hyper-confined maps. The major esports players can now travel the world on professional athlete visas, courted all the way by giant brands like Coke and Red Bull. In an era of mass media fragmentation, everyone is looking for the sure things – the things that young audiences buy into in their droves. Besides cool new social applications, it is esports that is uniting these tech-savvy youngsters – or at least the YouTube and Twitch communities that spring up around them.On a rooftop in Los Angeles, as earth tremors gently shook the city, a team of four boys took home $400,000 from playing a video game. They did it through skill and guile in front of millions of viewers – a weird and enthralling spectacle of noise and death. Alongside other huge tournaments based around titles like League of Legends and World of Tanks, this is a new paradigm in sports. Social media turned geeks into the world’s most important business entrepreneurs, now esports may turn them into superstars. But if you are waiting to see it all covered in traditional media, you’re probably in the wrong generation. This all goes out across the web, via Twitch, YouTube, games consoles and countless other digital outlets. The rise of professional gaming represents a kind of revolution in terms of spectated sports and mass entertainment – and it will not be televised.•Call of Duty World Championship 2014: how online gaming is becoming a spectator sport• Call of Duty: Ghosts – the billion-dollar new beginning• Starcraft: how Day[9] became the biggest star in esports
What's the story?An offshoot of theMarioseries, the firstYoshi's Island game came out for the SNES in 1995. A follow-up appeared on the DS in 2006, and this third game is exclusively for the 3DS. Like the Mario games, these are platformers, but rather than the plumber it's several of the colourful dinosaur Yoshis who must run and jump through the levels.GameplayIn this prequel story, a baby Mariowants to find his brother Luigi but is helpless to do so without the help of the Yoshis. Taking turns, each carries Mario on its back through one level. On top of the usual platforming skills, the Yoshis can also swallow enemies and turn them into eggs which can then be used as projectiles.Highs and lowsThe hand-drawn aesthetic suggestssweet simplicity, which is backed up by the cute Yoshi sounds and the pleasure of watching them trail a line of eggs. Unfortunately, the platforming takes simplicity too far, and the only difficulty comes from enemies that are more annoying than challenging, that frustration emphasised by the screams Mario lets loose any time he is dislodged.The verdictLooking like a cartoon&nbsp;fortoddlers along with its opportunity for slow exploration, suggests this would have been better aimed at the very young as a "My First Mario". Those old enough to remember the original will likely be disappointed.
What's the story?Part of the longMetalGearseries ofstealth games,Ground Zeroesbelongs to the prequel sub-series whose events take place before the originalMetal Gearand which star Naked Snake (otherwise known as Big Boss). Around half the price of a full game, this is technically a prologue to the upcomingMetal Gear Solid V: Phantom Pain.GameplayThe main mission has Snakeinfiltrate a US black site to rescue two targets. How he goes about that is the choice of the player, and can range from non-lethal stealth to high-alert combat with added environmental destruction. After the credits roll, players can return to the same area for a range of different side missions.Highs and lowsThe range of options at the player'sdisposal – crawling through drains, taking out cameras, commandeering vehicles – is impressive, and the experience is tied together by how convincingly the AI responds to your actions. The plot makes an effective political statement, though its intelligence is marred by some gratuitous treatment of one female character.The verdictThis collection of missions in only onearea is a promise of what to expect fromPhantom Pain, and judged on that basis rather than as a full game, it deserves praise. But while the additional missions allow players to get a "normal" game length of time playing it, that doesn't change the fact that this is really just a demo.
What's the story?Freedom or safety? That'sSecond Son'score question. When Delsin Rowe, a counter-culture slacker and perfect foil to his cop brother Reggie, accidentally gains elemental abilities, the warring siblings are drawn into a conflict between a group of superpowered "Conduits" and an oppressive government agency regulating their abilities and liberty.GameplayDespite varied powers – theunlikely assortment of smoke, neon, video and concrete replace the mere electricity of previous inFAMOUS games –Second Sonfeels broadly familiar. Free-running and melee combat remain central, though Delsin's skills prove more versatile in navigating the Seattle setting. Scant features using the PS4 controller's motion and touch capabilities don't add much, unfortunately.Highs and lowsOne of the first PS4 games to tapthe console's potential,Second Sonlooks astounding, with a vast world to explore. Voice acting is also superb. Animation doesn't always match raw visuals, with Delsin floating up, rather than climbing, buildings. The series' moral choices – determining unlockable powers and plot elements – also remain disappointingly simplistic.VerdictEfforts to move the series forwardcentre more on narrative and characterisation than gameplay, but the strength of Delsin and Reggie's relationship makes it work. Even though the final package feels like a tweak rather than generational improvement, it's  a hell of a lot of fun, and that can't easily be faulted.
What's the story?Respawn Entertainment was formed byformerCall of Dutydevelopers Vince Zampella and Jason West after a heated split from publishers Activision. Clearly, the experience rankled, asTitanfall's loose plot – delivered primarily through audio transmissions – sees scrappy space colonists battling their cruel corporate rulers, striving for independence through the subtle medium of giant robots. Spot the allegory?GameplayTitanfallis one of the "purest" onlinefirst-person shooters you're likely to play. Unapologetically multiplayer only, each squad battles through an assortment of familiar modes – capture the flag, base defence, attrition, et al. Starting as highly agile human soldiers, you will eventually be able to summon one of the eponymous Titans, providing heavier firepower at the cost of reduced mobility.Highs and lowsThemaps are superb; intricatelydetailed with numerous routes and secrets to uncover. Humans and Titans are a joy to control, though humans surprisingly have the edge thanks to parkour moves and tech-assisted aerial manoeuvres. Unfortunately, match-making is unbalanced; it's not unusual to face rivals levels higher than you.VerdictIf you live for multiplayer,Titanfallisbalanced and polished to a phenomenal degree, delivering matches of almost unrivalled scale. But under the glimmer it is an assemblage of FPS tropes bolted together. Add a star if you're the target audience, but for anyone even moderately bored with shooters, this is a case of "been there, shot that".
What's the story?LikePokémon,Invizimalsare creaturesthat can be caught and used in battles, however, they are not restricted to their  fictional world but can be found in ours  by augmented-reality technology. Previous games were played on the PSP with a camera, but this makes full use of Vita's features.GameplayThe player is the main character, cutscenes are footage of real actors who speak to the camera and the player's real-world surroundings are the backdrop to in-game events.Invizimalsare captured through mini-games that use the Vita's camera, mic, and touch screens.Highs and lowsThe ambition is impressive,withfamous actors telling the story and the Vita technology used to push the augmented-reality experience. Unfortunately, it isn't quite clever enough to make that experience seamless. Progress is halted if a player can't find an exactshade of a colour or walk any further in a particular direction.The verdictDefinitely not to be played sat on a bus.Players have to move around, make noise and certainly not mind looking daft to any onlookers. It'll appeal to kids who still have a sense of wonder, but will only really hit the mark for those with the patience to persevere through any technical issues.
What's the story?As defence attorney Phoenix Wrighttravels to London, noted archaeologist and puzzle enthusiast Professor Layton rescues Espella, a mysterious girl charged with witchcraft. Matters take a turn for the supernatural as the heroes are drawn into the storybook world of Labyrinthia, where theirunique talents will be needed to clear Espella's name and escape back to reality.GameplayPlayers switch between the puzzle-solving and adventuring of the Layton series and the case trials of Wright. The former are conventional brain teasers, while the latter require keen attention and observational skills, picking out inconsistencies in witness testimonies. With the exception of hint coins being usable in either scenario, the two systems remain separate but complementary experiences.Highs and lowsLayton and Wright's styles workso incredibly well together that it's almost surprising they haven't met before. It perhaps relies too heavily on prior knowledge of the source games, but given anyone unfamiliar with at least one property is unlikely to be tempted by an intersection of the two, it is doubtful this will faze many.VerdictGaming crossovers often haveunrelated characters brought together for a punch-up. Writer Shu Takumi crafts an engrossing modern fable blending the disparate series while respecting their individual charms. Somewhat impenetrable for newcomers, but fans will relish the experience.
It's Tuesday.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAmazon Fire TV first impressions &gt;&gt; PVRblogMatt Haughey:The biggest failing is that end users (that's us!) don't get a truly Universal Search. If you search for "Bob's Burgers" (arguably the best network animated comedy show today) on Amazon's Fire TV, you get results that you can buy any single episode from their 4 season run for $1.99 each or a full season for $29.99. I'm a member of Hulu Plus and Netflix as well, and installed the apps on the Fire TV, but there's no mention of them in the search results or even after clicking the "more ways to watch" button. On Netflix, you can stream the first couple seasons of Bob's Burgers for free. On Hulu, you can watch the latest episodes from the current fourth season for free as well.Now, I know Amazon is in the business of making money and would of course want you to buy the episodes from them, but Amazon's CEO Jeff Bezos got famous for putting a customer's needs first (The Bezos Doctrine) before profits. Of course, Apple doesn't offer this kind of search on AppleTV either, but if anyone would have been crazy enough to give free streaming options before paid downloads, I would have hoped that Amazon Fire TV could be the first, but sadly it's not.Don't miss his Venn diagram of "stuff that is good to watch" v various streaming options either.A Unicorn? In Israel? &gt;&gt; LinkedInNoam Bardin, Wave's founder (bought by Google for $1.15bn), writes at length about how unusual (a "unicorn") his company was - but how the conditions for such startups are improving:Israelis are also too cynical to reinvent new ways to consume. Instagram could never have survived our cynical side, or explaining to your buddies in the army that "instead of hacking into Iranian nuclear plants you built an app for sending friends pictures of food??"……if you want American exits, you need to give American valuations. One of Waze's mistakes was the valuation of its A round which significantly diluted the founders. Perhaps, had we held control of the company, as the Founders of Facebook, Google, Oracle or Microsoft had, Waze might still be an independent company today.Which makes it sound distinctly as though investor pressure forced the sale, not his wish to sell. Bardin is leaving Google.Mobile's rapid evolution is far from over: comScore - content - Mobile MarketerConsumer behavior is significantly shifting from traditional to digital media, with 2013 marking the first time mobile usage surpassed desktop, according to a new report from comScore.The report, "US. Digital Future in Focus 2014," reveals that the number of United States smartphone users increased 24% last year for a total of 156m owners, a healthy growth rate considering the maturity of the market. Tablets grew 57% in the past year to 82m owners."The rapid evolution in mobile usage will only expand," said Adam Lella, a marketing insights analyst at comScore, Chicago, Illinois.Don't give up on wearables already &gt;&gt; San Jose Mercury NewsMichelle Quinn:the premise of the wearable category starts with a good question: Are there different ways for us to interact with technology than a screen? Could those other mediums allow us to interact more with those around us, rather than distract us and take us away from our immediate surroundings?"We are getting more intimate with technology and there is nothing more intimate than what you are wearing," said Bob O'Donnell, the founder and chief analyst at TECHnalysis Research.Second, the promise of the sector is not to just add more beeps and buzzes to your life. The goal is to sell you something that is novel, yes, but actually offers ways to improve your life.So, you wake up to learn you slept five hours, and your smartwatch takes in the data from the past week to calculate your cumulative sleep deprivation, taking into account factors like age and gender. It recommends a nap at 2 since it sees an opening in your calendar, or an early bedtime.This sounds great, as long as the wearer is aged under 24 months. Perhaps that's the market to be tapped, not adults.Microsoft Office for the iPad: it's delightfully familiar &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comFarhad Manjoo:the most startling thing about using Office on an iPad is how comfortable it feels. Sure, the tablet version, which has to accommodate touch input, not a mouse pointer, looks different from the desktop version. The stripped-down interface has fewer advanced features than on your desktop, and the menus are blessedly minimalist, showing only the main options you'd need for any given task.Yet despite the new look, everything about the software is obvious. For the most part, the iPad versions of Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote work exactly as they do on PCs and Macs.This is a testament to the designers and engineers at Microsoft and to the power of long-term training. Other than my web browser, there's no software I use more often than Word, so I've internalized all its tics. I know the keyboard shortcuts, the menu options, the ins and outs of esoteric features like Track Changes. As I used the iPad version, I felt it click into the same neural grooves dug out by the years I've spent on desktop Office. If you're familiar with Office, you won't face any learning curve in the new version.If you love Office on your computer, you'll love it on your iPad. If you've always hated it, that won't change, either; now you'll just have one more place to hate it.Charge your phone in 30 seconds? An Israeli firm says it can &gt;&gt; WSJStoreDot was born out of the nanotechnology department at Tel Aviv University and developed its prototype  for Samsung's Galaxy 4. It unveiled the device at Microsoft's Think Next conference in Tel Aviv. StoreDot says it plans to make chargers for other smartphones, too.StoreDot has been developingbiological semiconductors, made from naturally occurring organic compounds called peptides, or short chains of amino acids, the building blocks of proteins. The technology can be used, among other things, to speed charging times, the company says.Chart: how mobile are social networks? &gt;&gt; StatistaAs in, how much of their activity comes from mobile users? See if you can order this (alphabetical) list in order of most mobile use: Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, Pinterest, Twitter, Tumblr. Then see.The fallacy of Android-first &gt;&gt; TechCrunchDave Feldman is co-founder of Emu, a texting/scheduling app; they decided to go Android-first:We discarded the iPhone prototype we had been working on for a few weeks, polished our rusty Java skills and had an Android alpha out by February 2013. We posted a public beta in July. And in October, we launched with terrific press coverage, including from a few folks who sang our praises specifically because we went Android-first. Android users are sick of watching new apps launch on iPhone, with Android as an often-underwhelming afterthought.We launchedEmu for iPhoneon 2 April, and we've pulled Emu for Android out of the Play Store. We hope we'll return to Android someday, but our team is too small to innovate and iterate on multiple platforms simultaneously. We've concluded iPhone is a better place to be:• Our decision to build on top of SMS/MMS involved huge, unanticipated technical hurdles.• Even when you don't support older Android versions, fragmentation is a huge drain on resources.• Google's tools and documentation are less advanced, and less stable, than Apple's.• Android's larger install base doesn't translate into a larger addressable market.The examples of bugs encountered even between Samsung Galaxy S4 devices is quite surprising. They supported Android 4.0 and later - and then cut even 4.0 to try to minimise the problem, but were still having to support 300 different devices.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The Internet Watch Foundation, the charity charged with reporting and removing child sexual abuse images, has begun proactively seeking out criminal content, reducing its dependency on reports from the public.Thanks to funding from Google and many of the biggest UK ISPs, the foundation has tripled the number of staff engaged in seeking out such imagery."I'm very pleased that we have got to the position now where the IWF can now proactively search for abusive material," said Ed Vaizey, the culture minister. "That's a significant shift in the way the IWF goes about its business.""It's a huge undertaking for the IWF. It's required increasing the number of analysts they have to deliver that work," Vaizey added. Last year's Downing Street-organised summit on tackling child abuse images online led to increased funding from the telecoms industry, allowing the organisation to treble the number of analysts working on tracking down such material.The foundation operates a hotline which members of the public can call to report suspected child abuse imagery. In 2013, 51,186 reports were processed, and over a quarter were confirmed as containing criminal material within the foundation's remit.But the work is arduous, and manually performed by a small team of specialists. "We open the reports, view what they viewed, and make an assessment on it," said an IWF analyst. "If it is child sexual abuse content, then we're looking at the age of the child, and we grade the images depending on what is happening."Until now, we've been restricted to responding to what people report to us, and we were restricted to going just one click away," she continued. "Quite often, we'll come across a report where you can keep clicking links and links and links, and you get no end of content."Susie Hargreaves, IWF chief executive, said that the expanded remit came as a result of the government's focus on child abuse imagery in 2013. "We said if we were able to proactively seek it, because we're experts and we know what we're looking for, we'd be able to expand our reach hugely. We've done it for three days now, and already, each day, we've found three times more content."The IWF operates under a memorandum of understanding from the Association of Chief Police Officers, which provides it with protection from the legal consequences of accessing child abuse images. It was initially thought that the memorandum would have to be altered before the foundation could adopt its enhanced remit, but an examination of the legal basis of the organisation conducted by Lord Ken Macdonald, the former director of public prosecutions, revealed otherwise.
The UK and Dutch governments have paid Microsoft multiple millions to extend support for Windows XP past the 8 April cutoff date.The UK extension cost £5.5m but is only valid for a year, after which public-sector users will have to be moved to newer software.The Crown Commercial Service (CCS), a new central purchasing agency within the Cabinet Office,paid the US software companyto provide important security software updates for Windows XP, Office 2003 and Exchange 2003 for the entire UK public sector.“We have made an agreement with the Crown Commercial Service to provide eligible UK public-sector organisations with the ability to download security updates to Windows XP, Office 2003 and Exchange 2003 for one year until 8 April 2015,” said a Microsoft spokesperson.That could require the upgrade of thousands of computers. EHI Intelligencecalculated in September 2013that 85% of the 800,000 PCs in the NHS alone were still running on XP at the time. By contrast, 14% were on Windows 7 and 1% on Windows 8.NHS managers interviewed for that study expressed hope that Microsoft would change its mind on ending XP support, or that there would be a national solution – which appears to have happened with the CCS intervention.“The NHS is very grateful for this deal,” said Sarah Hurrell of the CCS, according to Computer Weekly.The support extension will give the NHS and other government departments breathing room to migrate from Windows XP.A significant number of machines in the public sector remain on Windows XP, according to the Cabinet Office, although plans are in place to ensure that the majority of these are moved to other operating systems over the next 12 months.The Dutch interior ministrynegotiated a separate multimillion-euro dealwith Microsoft for about 40,000 PCs still running Windows XP across the nation’s government-owned computers.12 years and outWider extended support for Windows XP, which was released in mid-2001, ends on Tuesday after the operating system was removed from mainstream support in 2009. The date was announced in 2007, giving the government seven years to migrate to newer software – which it hasn’t yet done.Microsoft will continue releasing virus protection for Windows XP through its Security Essentials application until 14 July 2015.Up to a quarter of computers in businesses and the public sector will still be running Windows XP after Tuesday, according to data from Gartner, leaving them vulnerable to compromise without continued support.The CCS claimed the central deal saved the government more than £20m compared with individual departments arranging their own deals with Microsoft.The extended support deal comes with a requirement that PCs be migrated from Windows XP, Office 2003 or Exchange 2003 within a year. The government expects the majority of machines to be upgraded from Windows XP by April 2015.To Windows 8 or not to Windows 8, that is the questionMicrosoft’s Windows 8recently hit 200m licences sold, putting it on a par with Windows Vista but well behind Windows 7, which had sold more than 300m in the same time 15 months after its release.The slow Windows 8 salesforced the computer maker HP to offer Windows 7– Microsoft’s 2009 replacement for the unloved Windows Vista – saying it was “back by popular demand”.Public-sector bodies and enterprise Windows XP users face the prospect of upgrading to Windows 7, with its familiar user interface complete with Start menu, or switching to Windows 8, which has confused users with its use of a new “Start Screen” and large tiled interface.• Microsoft’s Windows 8.1brought back the Start button, but problems still remain
I am suspicious of electric bikes. It's cheating, and besides, who needs extra assistance when you can multitask while travelling, getting some much needed exercise there is never time for otherwise? However, I have just moved and, while my new, longer, seven-mile commute to work is extremely pleasant, on my breakage-prone vintage racer it takes 45 minutes. More often than not I arrive late, dishevelled, with the chain hanging off. This is an existence I tolerate having had an expensive bike stolen. Could a week in an electrified saddle convert me?Justebikesin west London, run by husband and wife duo James FitzGerald and Clare Elwes, kindly loan me a Dutch-made Sparta RX Plus. E-bikes are not mainstream in the UK – estimates suggest 20,000 are sold each year – but interest is growing. "We are trying to change the world," FitzGerald says. "To debunk this notion that you have to buy a £20,000 metal box to get from A to B."Once Elwes has briefed me on how the rather clunky step-through bike works, I am all set. "You'll feel like you're 16 again," she shouts, as I head out. And boy, does it go. It's quite a sensation, the undeniable boost the motor gives when activated by pedalling, and it's surprisingly silent, too. Some have suggested it's akin to a jet pack. I feel like I am Elliott, about to take off with ET perched on my pannier.Traversing central London, I sail past buses, Lycra-ed up blokes and Boris bikes – some of which are nowset to go electric.What is instantly striking is how much safer I feel with a little extra speed to get away at a junction, which as a female cyclist in Londoncan only be a good thing.A motorcyclist pulls off his helmet at the lights to get a proper look. "Is that electric?" he questions, bemused. "Don't go too fast." Legislation means that e-bikes can't exceed about 15 mph but you can get into the 20s if you make use of the eight gears. Riding up hills has never been such fun.The prospect of leaving an expensive bike out on the street is nerve-wracking. Yet Spartas are renowned for their sophisticated locking systems: the electricity won't work without a detachable digital screen; they have a frame security mechanism as standard with an option of a huge chain that fits into it. Justebikes have only known one to be nicked in eight years – and it was returned four days later.On the second day I come back down to earth with a bump. As I prepare to depart and pump up the assistance to max, an error message flashes up — the electricity isn't working. Without power Spartas are extremely heavy and I have to cycle the whole route like this. When I get hold of the shop it turns out my test bike wasn't registered so after a certain amount of miles the electricity cuts out as yet another security measure. First rule of using an electric bike: don't run out of power. The battery, which has to be purchased separately, can be easily removed and charged, and diminishes depending on the amount of assistance and weight.This puts a bit of a damper on things. Despite my love of this whizziness, I can't help but feel that, while I can reduce my commute by 10-15 minutes, I am losing it elsewhere: lugging the chain around or  carrying the cumbersome thing up steps. But being part of thepaltry 2.8%of the population riding to work, I am not the target market. E-bikes are perfect for people who aren't into cycling, to enjoy the freedom of being able to cruise around town in an eco-friendly way. And how much better would ourcity streets beif the bike-phobic were tempted to get on two wheels by devices like these? I for one would happily let them overtake me.Sparta RX Plus from £1,699 plus battery from £330.justebikes.co.uk
Yahoo has closed a months-old bug that let anyone access the name, email and message sent by Flickr users who invited friends to join the photo sharing service.But the web company was criticised for acting too slowly after the bug was brought to its attention. Its staff initially suggested that the system was “working as designed” when the flaw was pointed out.The privacy hole exposed the entire contents of the private invitations. But Yahoo engineers originally dismissed concerns, suggesting that the system was part of the invitation resend function, and insisting that “sensitive data” was not being made available.“We are not seeing the security implications here. You would have to know (or guess) the invitation id to only see an invitation,” said Schofield, a member of the Yahoo bug team, in a discussion onthe HackerOne bug reporting siteearlier in 2014.The flaw allowed anyone to see invitations sent to non-Flickr users using a simple web address ending with a unique invitation identity number. The number could be guessed or iterated to reveal the original invitation, including the personal message, the sender’s name and both the sender and recipient’s email addresses.Spam and phishing targets?Malicious parties could abuse the system using automated processes to collect real names, email addresses and personal information which could be sold on to third parties or used for phishing attacks on Flickr users or sending spam.Yahoo backtracked two months later and closed the privacy hole on Sunday, preventing invitations from being seen online by those not included in the invitation after the flaw was publicly disclosed.“This bug has been fixed. We definitely consider this class of info disclosure to be an issue worthy of addressing and we&apos;re sorry about the initial mistake. We’ll get back to you with bounty information shortly. Thank you for your patience and diligence,” said Alex Stamos, the chief information security officer for Yahoo, ending the Hackerone thread.Following links to the resend pages now leads to a generic photo invitation page for Flickr users, or a Yahoo login page which doesn&apos;t show the contents. The pages also seem to have been removed from caches online.Protect against surveillanceThe error is embarrassing for Yahoo, which positioned Flickr as the privacy-minded photo sharing alternative to Facebook in May last year with a complete site redesign and free storage upgrade, part of the Yahoo chief executive Marissa Mayer’s plan to turn the declining technology company around.Yahoo has taken recent steps to increase security and privacy after the NSA revelations, including the appointment of Stamos, a well-known security researcher and outspoken critic of the NSA’s mass surveillance programme.Last week, Stamos announced that Yahoo’s aim was to make sure “all traffic through Yahoo will be encrypted by default”, making user privacy one of Yahoo’s focuses.“Anything we can do to protect users against widespread, no-targeted surveillance is our duty,” Stamossaid.It is unknown how much personal data was compromised or collected via the invitation vulnerability before it was fixed.• Yahoo’s shares slide 5%as fourth-quarter revenue declines18 months after the former Google executive Mayer took the helm.
After almost two decades of trying and failing to plug in USB connectors the right way up first time round, computer users’ difficulties may be coming to an end.A new version of USB connector, called Type-C, will be the first generation of the ubiquitous connection standard to be both symmetrical and reversible. Each end of the cable will be the same as the other – and it won&apos;t matter which way up the plugs are.The downside of the Type-C connector, which will work with the new USB 3.1 specification, is that it is not physically compatible with current ports. Manufacturers will have to choose whether individual sockets should be the common Standard-A type – source of all the this-way-up-no-that-way woes – or the new Type-C.However, Alex Peleg, the vice-president of the chipmaker Intel’s platform engineering group, expects it to become widespread. “This new industry standards-based thin connector delivering data, power and video is the only connector one will need across all devices,” he said in a statement issued by the USB 3.0 Promoter Group, part of an industry body.Images of the new connector were revealed when the Taiwanese electronics company Foxconn included renders of the cables in a presentationleaked to the German IT site Golem. No date has been given for when the first devices to use the connector will hit the market.The Type-C superficially resembles Apple’s Lightning connector, introduced in September 2012. Lightning is a proprietary terminator for a USB cable, but is much thinner than the proprietary 30-pin connector which it replaced – and is reversible.The USB Promoter Groupannounced(PDF) in December that it was working on the Type-C connector, “to help enable thinner and sleeker product designs, enhance usability and provide a growth path for performance enhancements for future versions of USB”.While this is the biggest change to the USB format since it was standardised in 1996, it’s by no means the first. Over its two decades of existence, the standard has evolved to contain a dizzying plethora of connector types.The protocol has three different speeds – USB 1, USB 2 and USB 3, released in 1996, 2000 and 2008, offering maximum per-second throughputs of 12 megabits, 480Mb and 4 gigabits.It also includes plugs for every category of device possible. Even before the introduction of USB 3.0, users had to deal with USB Type-A and Type-B, as well as Mini-A, Mini-B, Micro-A and Micro-B. The latest protocol introduces a new shape for Type-B, Micro-A and Micro-B connectors, as well as the reversible Type-C.But not every connector is equally successful. Owing to a lack of uptake, the Mini-A, Mini-B and Micro-A sizes are rarely used, while Type B fell out of fashion in the 2000s when smaller connectors made it look clunky in comparison.While the Type-C connectors may have an advantage in their flexibility, they also lose out on backwards compatibility. USB 3.0 devices with other types of connector can still be linked up with USB 2.0 cables, and will work well, albeit at a much slower rate.•Is it worth waiting for USB 3.0?
Apple&apos;s executives expressed concern in April 2013 that “consumers want what we don’t have” in smartphones – specifically, larger screens or significantly cheaper phones – according to documents released in its patent trial with Samsung in California.But separate rumours from supply chain sources quoted by Reuters suggest that the company plans to introduce a larger-screen phone this year as the high end of the smartphone market slows down.Apresentation from Apple’s planning meeting for the 2014 fiscal year, which runs from September 2013 to September 2014, shows that it was already focusing on the slowdown in the top-end smartphone market for smaller screens such as the iPhone.Other internal Apple documents admitted as evidence by Samsung also show that the company was considering creating a low-cost iPhone based on the iPod Touch as far back as autumn 2010, to replace its then year-old iPhone 3GS.A series of slides admitted as evidence in the Apple-Samsung trial being held in San Jose shows the growth in the smartphone market between 2011 and 2012. The slides show that of the 228m extra devices sold – up from 494m to 722m in 2012 – 91m were priced at more than $300 (£180) with a screen more than 4in diagonally; 159m were priced at less than $300; and there was a drop of 22m in sales of “everything else” – that is, phones priced over $300 but with screens of 4in or less, which includes all Apple’s present iPhone range.Apple presentation from April 2013 notes slowing iPhone sales growth and that ‘consumers want what we don’t have’Apple falls squarely into the “everything else” range. Although it upped the screen size of the iPhone in September 2012, introducing the iPhone 5 with a 4in screen rather than the 3.5in screen of the previous generations, the data from its internal presentation shows that executives are aware of the gap between its high-priced phones and the growing trend towards larger screens over 4in, spearheaded by products from companies including Samsung.Decelerating growthThe company’s internal presentation shows that the executives recognised that its own phone sales were seeing rapidly decelerating growth.However, new phones typically have a lead time of up to two years because of the time required to acquire factory capacity and prove prototypes.The presentation notes: “Competitors have drastically improved their hardware and in some cases their ecosystems,” and asserts that some rivals are “spending ‘obscene’ amounts of money on advertising and/or carrier/channel to gain traction”.Samsung is presenting the documents in its defence against Apple, which is seeking $2bn in damages from the South Korean manufacturer, alleging that it infringed a number of iPhone-related patents and that this helped it gain sales at Apple’s expense.Samsung counters that the evidence from Apple’s own internal documents points to other causes for its success and Apple’s slowing sales, not any alleged use of the patented technology – whose validity is also being questioned.Apple’s concern about the changing dynamics of the smartphone market seems to have been expressed as far back as late 2010, according to other documents released in the trial. Those show that Apple considered building a “low-end iPhone” based on the iPod Touch to replace the 3GS model from autumn 2011.The cheaper iPhone 5C, released along with the high-end iPhone 5S in September 2013, may be Apple’s form of low-end iPhone – although its unsubsidised price of $450 suggests that the company chose not to compete on price, despite the growth of that market segment.Research forecasts reckon that the high-end smartphone market will be stagnant at best in 2014, with the majority of growth coming from the sub-$300 market.Waving a wandThe company&apos;s executives also met in early 2011 and considered whether to add a “wand” to the Apple TV set-top box, as it prepared to make 2011 the year of a “holy war” with Google.Anemail sent by Steve Jobs in October 2010– a few months after the release of the iPhone 4, and with the next-generation iPhone 4S still a year away – gives an insight into Apple’s then-unfolding strategy as the company prepared for its “top 100” meeting of top-level executives in which new products for the forthcoming year, and even phones from two years ahead, were to be discussed.The document has been released to Samsung as part of the legal discovery process, under which internal documents that could bolster its case can be presented as evidence in court.The strategy meeting shows that Apple had mapped out its smartphone plans at least two years ahead. The iPhone 4S and its Siri voice assistant are both referred to in the email – as is the iPhone 5, then just under two years away from being launched.Reutersreportsthough that Apple has begun testing of a larger 4.7in screen which could begin production as early as May.Apple internal email from October 2010 discusses creating a low-cost iPhone to replace the iPhone 3GS, then a year old•Motorola&apos;s Moto G smartphone bites into the UK budget smartphone market
If you thoughtPrince AndreworMichael Gove&apos;sattempts at selfies were the worst thing about the craze – think again.There is now an app which is designed specifically to make you look skinnier in your selfies. Acting as aFatBoothin reverse,SkinneePixpromises to make it look like you&apos;ve shed 5, 10 or 15 lbs with just the click of a button.The description reads: &quot;SkinneePix makes your photos look good and helps you feel good. It’s not complicated. No one needs to know. It’s our little secret.&quot;It&apos;s already the norm to add a toasted haze to pouty selfies thanks to photo filters, and some celebs have even been accused of airbrushing their own pictures before putting them up on Instagram – so it was only a matter of time before someone came up with an app like this.Creators Susan Green and Robin J Phillips say they came up with the app after discovering they hated all the selfies they took on holiday with friends. Green told the Huffington Post: &quot;You&apos;ve always heard about the camera adding 15 pounds, we just wanted to level the playing field.&quot;They do say don’t knock something til you’ve tried it, so I handed over 69p to iTunes in order to have a poke around the app and see what it’s really like. As it boots up the camera, it flashes up a little message which range from &quot;Good hair day!&quot; to &quot;Make me look good&quot;.You can&apos;t alter group pictures such asthe now infamous Oscars selfie, so I snapped a quick photo at my desk.Elena Cresci tries the Skineepix app.Rather than looking like the healthy 24-year-old I am, I look gaunt, tired and in need of a slap-up meal. Or five. My cheekbones jut out in disturbing spikes, my ears suddenly look huge compared to the rest of me – and let’s not get started on my gigantic forehead.That&apos;s not a look that is healthy or attractive, and certainly shouldn&apos;t be desirable. The closest I&apos;ve ever come to looking like this before was after a severe bout of tonsillitis.James Walsh tries the SkineePix app.Men don&apos;t fare much better under SkinneePix&apos;s editing, similarly transformed from healthy to emaciated in one swipe. &quot;I actually look like a skull,&quot; my colleague James Walsh told me.There&apos;s already a huge pressure on women, particularly young girls, when it comes to their appearance, as we&apos;re surrounded by wall-to-wall coverage of photoshopped models and celebrities. Do we really need to be adjusting our selfies too?Skineepix&apos;s creators claim their app could motivate its users to be healthy by showing them what they could look like if they lost some weight. But from equating weight loss with being more attractive to the conspiratorial &quot;it&apos;s our little secret&quot; in the description, nothing about this app is remotely healthy.Love them or hate them, selfies are popular because they&apos;re quick, easy and a bit of a laugh. They&apos;re not meant to be perfect. Yes, they&apos;re definitely a touch narcissistic, but surely stopping to shave pixels off your jawline takes all the fun out of it.•How selfies became a global phenomenon
One potential design for the WonderRing. Developers say the smart ring will let you control electronics, and track your sports performances, heart rate and temperature. Investors are supporting the project, which is still at prototype, at crowdsourcing sitecrowdSPRING. Photograph: PRThe WonderRing's developers say it will be able to control TVs, audio, lighting and other electrical devices. Photograph: PRAnother possible design for the WonderRing. Photograph: PRAnother contender for the WonderRing’s design. Photograph: PRAn exploded view of the WonderRing. Photograph: PRThe WonderRing’s developers will choose the winning design soon. Photograph: PRExternal and internal views of a WonderRing design. Photograph: PRAnother possible design for the WonderRing. Photograph: PR
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple employees confess all the worst things about working at Apple &gt;&gt; Business InsiderJim Edwards:not every company is perfect, and Apple is no exception. Turns out there are some downsides to working at Apple.We sifted our archives, Quora, and Glassdoor to put together this compilation of quotes from former employees about the worst aspects of life inside the Cupertino, empire. Take them with a pinch of salt — these are, after all, the low points of life at the top."Not every company is perfect"? There are perfect companies? Anyhow, long hours, secrecy, non-gigantic pay and it's not run by the engineers, apparently.Chromebook shipments reach 2.1m for 2013, forecast to reach 11 million worldwide by 2019, says ABI Research &gt;&gt; DigitimesAn estimated 2.1m Chromebooks shipped in 2013 with nearly 89% of total shipments reaching North America, according to market intelligence firm ABI Research. As Chromebook shipments expand globally, ABI Research forecasts a CAGR of 28% to 11m in 2019."ABI Research tracked Chromebooks across six regions and found the ASP to be US$338," said research analyst Stephanie Van Vactor. "This truly budget-driven device is a disruptive force to the portable PC market." The ASP and shipment growth of Chromebooks shows the market responding to products for the budget conscious; a reaction from a slowly reviving economy along with interest from the education business vertical.And from aseparate Digitimes story:Global Chromebook shipments in 2014 are expected to reach only 4-5m units mainly because cloud-based storage is not popular enough and 4G mobile access is not sufficiently available, according to Taiwan-based supply chain makers…The sources pointed out that Chromebooks were unable to reproduce the same sales phenomenon as netbooks because of the popularity of mobile devices.The netbooks comparison is fascinating. Were Chromebooks just a few years too late to have huge growth?Key Samsung executives depart from US business &gt;&gt; CNETSamsung has a mini-exodus on its hands.At least five high-ranking executives from Samsung's US mobile business - known as Samsung Telecommunications America, or STA - have left the company or have given their notice over the past two months, people familiar with the departures told CNET.The departures, including the head of national sales, the mobile devices product chief, and a key strategist for Galaxy tablets and the Gear smartwatch, come less than a year after Gregory Lee took over as president and CEO of Samsung's US mobile and electronics operations. The moves also follow other turnover in Samsung's US operations as the company battles Apple in yet another patent-infringement case over key smartphone patents.Samsung's statement says, in part, "Some have left voluntarily to pursue other opportunities..." Some?Symantec said to hire JPMorgan to explore options &gt;&gt; BloombergSymantec Corp is hiring JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co to explore its options and defend itself from activist shareholders, according to people with knowledge of the situation, as the security-technology company faces investor pressure to improve its business.The Mountain View, California-based company plans to hire JPMorgan after interviewing banks this week, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the discussions are private. Symantec has been struggling as a record personal-computer slump curbs spending on antivirus software. The company fired President and Chief Executive Officer Steve Bennett last month and its shares are down 17% over the past year.A Statistical Analysis of the Apple App Store &gt;&gt; ScottlogicColin Eberhardt:The App Store continues its rapid growth, with approximately 300,000 apps added each year. For a bit of fun I decided to download as much app metadata as I could in order to find patterns within the App Store data. I found that 75% of apps are free, 60% have no ratings, the Entertainment category has the worst user ratings, developers employ psychological pricing techniques, there is a correlation between price and rating, and a whole lot more..More graphs in the comments too. Has a similar study been done on Google Play?Silicon Valley employees spent more money opposing same-sex marriage than you might think &gt;&gt; QuartzGoogle and Appleboth took official positions(Apple donated $100,000) against the law, i.e., in favour of same-sex marriage. Google's Larry Page donated $40,000 to the campaign against the law before he became the company's CEO, and his co-founder Sergey Brin donated $100,000. Even without their donations, Google employees predominantly opposed Prop 8. Other prominent executives and founders like Sheryl Sandberg, Jerry Yang, and Pierre Omidyarsigned a public letteropposing the law.However, Eich was far from being alone. Intel and HP employees donated more in support of the law than against it, in contrast withthe general population of the San Francisco Bay Area.Speakers; When is good enough, enough &gt;&gt; AudioholicsFrom the forums, meet Bob Dean, who tried a blind listening test:We gathered up a 5 of our audio buddies. We took my "old" Martin Logan SL-3 (not a bad speaker for accurate noise making) and hooked them up with Monster 1000 speaker cables (decent cables according to the audio press). We also rigged up 14 gauge, oxygen free Belden stranded copper wire with a simple PVC jacket. Both were 2 meters long. They were connected to an ABX switch box allowing blindfold testing. Volume levels were set at 75 Db at 1000K Hz. A high quality recording of smooth, trio, easy listening jazz was played (Piano, drums, bass). None of us had heard this group or CD before, therefore eliminating biases. The music was played. Of the 5 blind folded, only 2 guessed correctly which was the monster cable. (I was not one of them). This was done 7 times in a row! Keeping us blindfolded, my brother switched out the Belden wire (are you ready for this) with simple coat hanger wire!You'll never guess what happened next.. actually, you will.Eco-system is the key for Smart Device multi-screen strategy &gt;&gt; Kantar WorldpanelThe recent Kantar Worldpanel ComTech report shows, by December 2013, amongst Apple, Samsung and Lenovo tablet users in Urban China, over 62% own a smartphone device. This ratio is particularly high for Apple iPad users at 80.9%, followed by Samsung with 56.9%, which is slightly higher than Lenovo's 42.6%. If we look at tablet penetration by mobile phone brands, 35.4% iPhone users own a tablet, and Samsung and Lenovo mobile users have a tablet penetration of 19.3% and 14.9% respectively. Therefore, in comparison, iPad users are more likely to use a smartphone device, and tablet penetration is higher for iPhone users. This implies the high cost of Apple products naturally recruits high value customers and they are more likely to lead the trend of multi-screen adoption.Or, paraphrased, "comparatively rich people buy comparatively expensive stuff". But Android's interchangeability poses a problem for Samsung achieving the double in the same way, Kantar says.Wall Street's biggest believer in an Apple TV set is losing his faith &gt;&gt;Fortune TechThat would be Gene Munster of brokerage Piper Jaffray, who has been confidently predicting an Apple TV set since, oh, February 2008:When 2011 came and went without a TV set from Apple, Munster didn't lose faith. He simply pushed the expected launch date forward a year. He did it again in 2012. And again in 2013.But the arrival Tuesday of Amazon's Fire TV [set-top box] seems to have shaken his confidence. Looking at what Roku and Amazon's set-top boxes offer viewers, it seems to Munster that Apple has been overtaken by the competition:Fire TV: 41 content partners and 133 gamesApple TV: 31 content partners and 0 gamesRoku: over 1,300 content partners (channels) and 77 games"We still view a launch of an Apple Television in 2014 as likely," he wrote Tuesday, "but note that each month that passes without credible feedback from the supply chain reduces our confidence."Still, he continues to believe a TV is "likely". It'll be on his gravestone.Sonos, the wireless speaker champ, has new competition &gt;&gt; BusinessweekThe company is facing its first big challenge as rivals target its piece of the $10bn home audio market. "With Wi-Fi speakers, until recently you really were talking mainly about Sonos," says Jack Wetherill, an analyst with Futuresource Consulting in Dunstable, UK. Wireless speakers are the fastest-growing category in the consumer audio-equipment market, accounting for 17% of global speaker revenue in 2013, according to Futuresource. Bose is introducing the SoundTouch, wireless speakers that can be programmed to play favorite stations or artists and have built-in displays.In late April, Samsung Electronics will introduce streaming technology to some of its televisions and audio products to use with its $350 Shape wireless speakers. The South Korean maker of Galaxy phones and tablets is adding Bluetooth capability and NFC technology to give users more ways to stream. "From a name-brand perspective, we like our chances," says Jim Kiczek, director of digital audio and video at Samsung Electronics America.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Here we go, Monday.
It is less than three years since Liz Bacelar launched Decoded Fashion, bringing together her considerable address book of fashion contacts and tech founders to bridge two very different industries.Freshly acquired by the research and consultancy firm Stylus Media Group on 31 March for an undisclosed sum, Decoded fashion technology events have grown rapidly, reflecting a new commercial appetite for the sector.Bacelar will continue to head Decoded, which is planning to expand its brand of conference and fashion-technology hacks across the US, Europe, Asia and South America.Her own brand of enthusiasm comes from trying to &quot;bridge the gap&quot; between the two industries, she says, recently inspiring keynote speeches from big name designers including Zac Posen and Tumblr founder David Karp.Tech has been &apos;disconnected about the opportunities of fashion&apos;Given how established many technologies are - the ubiquity of Google, Apple and the 1.2 billion-strong community of Facebook, let alone the plethora of inventive retail and fashion apps - it could be seen as surprising that the fashion industry has taken to long to wake up to the commercial opportunities coming from inventive new tech startups.“The technology side has been really disconnected about the real opportunities in fashion and lots of tech founders have tried to create solutions or ideas that weren’t based on real knowledge of the industry,” she told the Guardian.“On the industry side there was disconnect about the possibilities and a lack of awareness on what was rising.” She saw an opportunity to mix both worlds with a well-designed event that would appeal to the fashion crowd, but would also retain &quot;the wit of real tech, and right from the source&quot;.A former CBS News producer, Emmy nominated Bacelar launched her first Decoded Fashion event at New York&apos;s Lincoln Centre with 700 delegates, and now organises 20 events across the globe each year. In February 2012, Decoded hosted the fashion world&apos;s first large-scale hackathon, with the Council of Fashion Designers of America, inviting 650 technologists to New York to meet design and digital product challenges from a panel of fashion experts. The five finalists went on to present at Mercedes Benz Fashion Week.“It was so incredible to see what happened that day,” says Bacelar, who was eight months pregnant at the time. “It was the first time that Women’s Wear Daily printed the word hackathon in a hundred years.”In November 2012, a Decoded competition for startups offered $65,000 from Index Ventures and Marks and Spencer for the best idea. “They needed to captivate the people they were talking to with very plain terms and very clear vision on how they’d fit that into fashion. So that was the challenge. It doesn’t matter if it&apos;s a Silicon Valley titan - when it comes to conveying the idea to someone in the industry there has been a huge communication problem.”&apos;No excuses&apos; for failing to represent womenBacelar has also become something of a focus for push for more women in the technology sector. Decoded was not started as a women’s initiative, Bacelar says, but has found it fast becoming a platform for women interested in the tech industry to be noticed. &quot;The amount of pitches I’m getting that are led by women is growing like crazy. What I can&apos;t stand is when you go to all the top tech events around the world and you see 5% females - the most I&apos;ve seen was 8%,” she says, with some exasperation.&quot;There are no excuses any more,&quot; said Bacelar. &quot;When you look at the lineup for Milan, New York - I was looking for the best voices, if I turn out 50% women it’s because that’s what I found due to proper reporting. If you’re just copying what speakers people had from previous events, you just perpetuating the problem of the lack of visibility of women in tech.”Fashion courses churn out &apos;old thinking&apos;Entrenched prejudices about technology are still holding back designers, says Bacelar. It&apos;s no longer enough to follow old-fashioned practices to run a modern business.“Every fashion university in the world, they’re churning out designers with the old thinking. Very, very few if any are really equipped with the eco-system of today,&quot; she says.“A designer launching today needs to launch like a startup: What’s your mobile strategy? What’s your e-commerce strategy? How about communities?&quot;It’s not the old game of being picked up by a magazine,” she stresses. “Technology is intertwined - and the builders and creators are tastemakers, in the sense that they’re building the journey and the industry.&quot;•Farfetch&apos;s José Neves on where digital meets fashion - video
Jann Mardenboroughwon the Nissan PlayStation GT Academy competition in 2011, earning the chance to take part in professional racing. Backed by Nissan, he has since competed extensively in sports car racing and completed one season in single seaters; he's finished with a class podium at the Le Mans 24 Hours and as runner-up in the Toyota Racing Series in New Zealand.As part of the Infiniti Red Bull Racing driver development programme, he will race for Arden International in this year's GP3 Championship – one of the most important feeder series for Formula One.I started gaming when I was sevenPlayingGran Turismoon the original PlayStation, really just racing games, I played the odd shooting game now and then but the majority of it was racing, I've always had a passion forGran Turismoand to drive cars I'd probably never, ever, get to drive.For my A-levels I designed a gaming pod to race inI made it out of MDF wood and bought myself a wheel paddle with some money I saved up, and then I was away. About a year laterGT Academycame round, and served me pretty well.Winning GT Academy was the best moment of my lifeI knew that my life was going to change massively. After that, the first time I drove a fast GT car, a fast road car, that was a pretty cool moment – to be released round Silverstone in a 500-horse power Nissan GT-R was pretty crazy for a 19-year-old.The transition from videogame to real-life driving wasn't that difficultThe controls and physics engines in games these days are crazy, they take real-life data from cars and then put them into code so that the way that the car pitches and brakes and the steering input works very well in racing games.Of course you feel the G-force which you don't in the game, but you're so tightly strapped into the seat, that it's not really an issue.People think gaming is just lounging aroundBut it can actually be something that's fantastic and, although it's all happened very, very quickly, it's a amazingly cool situation to find myself in.In a way, I'm sort of living out my childhood dream, so it's very fulfilling that gaming is what has allowed me to do that.It would be the absolute pinnacle for me to reach F1But I'm concentrating this year on GP3 and will try to develop and improve. The Infiniti Red Bull Racing driver development programme means I can use their simulators to train so that I can arrive at a track I've never driven at before and can be on the pace in the first practice session.A lot of guys have made the jump into the top of the sport from GP3, so it's nice to know that I'm in the correct championship, and with a great team as well, I'm in a great position to get the ball rolling.TheGP3 seasonbegins in Spain on 9 May, Sky are televising all the races
They have panoramic views, iris recognition in the lifts, and a 24-hour concierge who will stock the fridge with champagne or charter a private jet. But as the rest of the nation upgrades to fibre-optic broadband, London's most expensive apartments have been left in the digital dark ages, stranded at the end of often painfully slow copper lines.Only the most wealthy can afford a pied-à-terre at the One Hyde Park development opposite Harrods, in Knightsbridge, but it seems even the average £22m price tag is not enough to buy a superfast internet connection. The flats went on sale just three years ago, but their broadband speed is well below the national average.The problem is not confined to Knightsbridge. BT is spending £2.5bn wiring up 19m homes with faster internet, with the government bent on ensuring broadband reaches rural locations, but as the country's most far-reaching infrastructure project nears completion, it has emerged that many of the most exclusive addresses in London and other big cities are being overlooked.Across the capital, and particularly along the banks of the Thames, where luxury steel and glass high-rises now jostle for space, mining tycoons, investment bankers, rock stars and footballers spend many precious minutes in front of buffering screens when trying to make a Skype call or watch films over the internet.One Hyde Park has a top speed of around 10 megabits per second – well below the 18Mbps national average. The building's developer, Candy &amp; Candy, says it is now negotiating with BT to install a 100Mbps service.Multi-unit dwellings, be they council tower blocks or high-end developments, often have a dedicated line running from the ground floor to the nearest telephone exchange. These lines are made of copper, and can run long distances, slowing the speed at which information travels.BT's upgrade project is replacing copper wiring between the exchange and the green cabinets found on most streets. But it cannot help properties such as Pan Peninsula, the Canary Wharf tower that claims to hold London's highest private apartments, or Arlington Street, the Candy brothers' development around the corner from  Piccadilly, because they are not connected to a cabinet."Internet today is a bit like having water or electricity," said hedge fund manager Radenko Milakovic. His London base is just down the road from near One Hyde Park at a development called The Knightsbridge, where the largest properties sell for £14m, but until recently the top broadband speed was 8Mbps."One should have access to the best infrastructure, particularly if you are in central London, whether you are in Brick Lane or Knightsbridge. Fast, uninterrupted and reliable internet should be available to everyone."Milakovic has a back-up server in Bulgaria, which constantly updates the data he gathers in London. On the BT line, the process of copying each new file would have to take place overnight to avoid jamming the service during the daytime. Downloading films was just too slow to contemplate.The problem has left a gap in the market and Hyperoptic, the niche operator that last year raised £50m from financier George Soros to fund its expansion, has begun wiring up buildings across town. Such is the appetite for the internet that Hyperoptic has now signed up 150 London buildings, housing 35,000 flats, and is expanding to other big cities in the UK.It targets larger buildings, from affordable housing in the former Olympic Village to posher places such as The Knightsbridge, where Milakovic can now download large files in seconds and back up his server throughout the day.BT's top speed for retail, as opposed to business customers, is up to 300Mbps, while Hyperoptic can run up to 1 gigabit (equal to about 1000 megabits) per second. Both are more than the average family needs, but they allow media to flow into the home at an unprecedented rate.Thinkbroadband editor Andrew Ferguson said: "Developers are starting to see a broadband impact on rental and resale prices. It's not just about having a Jacuzzi."Harvey Wolfinger's business, Invernetwork, counsels advertisers on how to spend their money with Google. He lives at the Norman Foster-designed Albion Riverside in Battersea and before Hyperoptic wired his building 18 months ago, the typical speed was a paltry 1.5Mbps."We complained endlessly to BT, but they said we were too far from the exchange," he said. Downloading advertising videos could take 20 minutes, while watching BBC catch-up programmes on the Sky Plus box was simply not possible. At Wolfinger's home in Scotland, where the internet came courtesy of a satellite service, the connection was many times faster at 20Mbps."In real terms we were better off in the Highlands of Scotland, in the remote munros, than we were in London."The solution for larger buildings is to replace the copper with a fibre line from the exchange to the premises – or FTTP – but BT is in no rush to do this. It has installed FTTP in some places, for example Chelsea Bridge Wharf in London and the Big Peg and King Edward's Wharf in Birmingham. But its real focus is on upgrading cabinets – FTTC – a system which arguably delivers more bang per buck.A BT spokeswoman said: "The presence of exchange-only lines can limit our options for delivering fibre but we work hard to deliver a fibre-based solution to such premises where we can. The vast majority of our rollout is FTTC. The technology enables us to deliver high-speed fibre broadband to the widest possible footprint much more rapidly and cost-effectively than would otherwise be possible using FTTP."
Price£999GearsShimano 105FrameAluminiumOoooooffff… The bike's wheel drops into a gaping hole then ricochets upwards, driving the hard saddle into my cowering rump. The thump travels through my shoulders, making my mouth snap shut and my head yank backwards… Ask any urban cyclist about the perils they face on the road and they'll list everything from homicidal taxi drivers to Boris-bike bozos and zoned-out pedestrians. But the number-one menace is the pothole.The tarmac along stretches of my pock-marked commute looks like it is in the grip of some hellish Victorian contagion – it is scarred, ravaged, pustulant. It's so pitted, in fact, that as I rallycross over it, I no longer feel safe on my skinny-tyred road bike. The poor thing bucks around like a&nbsp;two-wheeled bronco, shaking the fillings from my teeth. These mean streets call for something much tougher.For years, the only frames built to really cope with this sort of punishment are mountain bikes. In the wilds of Wales, fine, but you feel ridiculous pedalling around town on a ride with full suspension, jelly-mould tyres and handlebars as wide as steer horns. There is, however, another way: step forward the cyclocross bike, or "gravel racer". Developed as a rugged, off-road alternative, it is, depending on your point of view, either a pumped-up, redneck road bike or a slimmed-down, urbane mountain bike.The sport of cyclocross, or CX, is aimed at adrenalin addicts who like to spend time with their hearts in their mouths – and their stomachs in their pants. Racers hurtle down terrifyingly narrow tracks, haul their bikes up hills and through streams. They scramble across boggy fields. Mud, in fact, is mandatory. It's tough stuff and CX bikes are unbreakable. They boast a rough-riding, take-no-prisoners geometry and that makes them ideal for urban badlands, so this new Lombard from Marin is all set to put the CX into the city. Oh, come on, that was hilarious…Established in California in 1986, Marin is a brand that's long been synonymous with off-road biking. It's also long been synonymous with bearded hippies wearing bandanas who spent their days blasting down trails on home-modified bikes. But without those deranged pioneers off-roading wouldn't be what it is today.The Lombard's frame is double-butted aluminium. It only comes in black, but a reflective strip along the top bar gives it depth and texture. It isn't lightweight, but that's not what you want here. Straddle the bike and it feels so grounded it's like sitting on a small heffer (I imagine). It's so well planted, in fact, that when you lift your feet you're surprised when it starts to tilt. The tapered carbon forks make it agile, and you get stout mixed-tread tyres to provide plenty of grip and comfort. Those tyres soak up potholes with relish. The drivetrain is a dependable Shimano 105, which switches from gear to gear with a neat, accurate click. The brakes are hydraulic discs which give you mighty stopping power whatever the terrain or the conditions.Applied to the chronic impetigo of the capital's distressed roads, the Lombard is a&nbsp;soothing balm.Win tickets to the British Superbiking Championship withI, Superbiker 4: The War for FourGrabbing some air: Josh leaves the world behind.The 2014 MCE InsuranceBritish Superbiking Championshipkicks off at Brands Hatch on 18 April followed by 11 electrifying rounds across the nation over the next six months. The best names in British superbiking will be battling it out for the title riding some of the highest-performance sportbike motorcycles in the UK. To celebrate the screening ofI, Superbiker 4: The War for Fourat Showcase Cinemas on the 10 April, Showcase is giving away five pairs of VIP weekend paddock passes to this year's British Superbiking Championship. The exclusive pass gives you access to all areas of the track and grounds where you can watch superbiking champions compete in wheel-spinning races and events over three days. And that's not all, you and a friend will also have the opportunity to spend time backstage where you'll be met by theI, Superbiker 4director and introduced to one of the superbiking stars from the movie. If you want to have a chance of winning a pair of tickets please emailmartin.love@observer.co.ukwith I, Superbiker 4 in the subject line. Tickets will be sent to the first five people to email in.Book your tickets toI, Superbiker 4atshowcasecinemas.co.ukThe Haynes International Museum throws open its doorsAny colour as long as it is red: the legendary Red Room at Haynes.Good news for car lovers! TheHaynes International Motor Museumofficially relaunches on 16 April following a £5m investment, more than two years of work (and many more of planning). The new museum will be home to over 400 of the greatest cars from around the world, dating from 1885 to the present, among them you'll find Bentleys and Rolls-Royces from the 50s, a Ferrari 360, a huge variety of veteran, vintage and pre-war classics, motorsport cars through the ages, a $10m Duesenberg and many more, as well as brilliant collection of motorbikes. The Museum was first established in a sawmill in Sparkford (just outside Yeovil) in 1985 by John Haynes OBE with 33 cars. This new, rather more impressive, building boasts a long s-shaped glass double storey entry foyer and showcase. There are three new exhibition halls, two modernised halls, interactive displays and virtual reality interpretation. There is also the Haynes Motorland children's adventure play zone, a suite of function rooms, a café and museum shop. It makes for a great day out! For details, go to:haynesmotormuseum.comPedal NorfolkRoll with it: riders pedal past Holkam Hall at last year's event.Known for its huge skies and wonderful open landscapes, Norfolk has long been a favourite destination for cyclists. And now it has its very own cycling festival. For the second year running,Pedal Norfolkwill be taking place on 3-5 May at Holkham Hall. The historic house and its stunning 25,000-acre estate make a perfect place to camp and cycle. The Olympic medallist Emma Pooley will be there to get riders under starter's orders and will be riding alongside participants of the eight sportives, before sharing insights into her career at a Q&amp;A on Saturday evening. You can choose between 20, 50 and 100-mile races and even a time trial. Do them all and you will clock up 250 miles over the weekend. There is also a host of entertainment for all ages with a new cyclocross and off-road trail, fantastic displays by Team Extreme's Zero Gravity BMX team, fun and games with Doctor Spinoff and his 22 whacky bicycle inventions and Highline Adventures's climbing wall, plus lots of "have-a-go" activities. With great food from Norfolk's Feast on the Street and many of the leading bike brands including Merida, SRAM, Cinelli and Shimano exhibiting, Pedal Norfolk is a great opportunity to see and test the latest equipment and meet their teams. More than that it is a great chance to get on your bike and spend a long weekend among like-minded cyclists. For more information, go topedalnorfolk.co.ukEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visittheguardian.com/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place. Follow Martin on Twitter@MartinLove166
1 Andy Warhol (The Sims: Superstar, 2003)A posthumous appearance in a goliath of casual gaming might not have seemed the most obvious direction for Warhol's legacy, but the pop art pioneer was a devotee of computing. Just before his death, he embraced the game-centric Amiga as an artistic tool, becoming one of many to harness its creative power. He was even spotted at the 1985 US Amiga launch immortalisingDebbie Harry in pixels. And Warhol wasn't the sole celebrity to enjoy time onThe Sims: Superstar's silicon screen; the expansion pack also featured Jon Bon Jovi, Avril Lavigne and Marilyn Monroe, to name but a few.2Sarah Palin (Mercenaries 2, 2008)Downloadable content long ago let developers flesh out their creations with extra features after release.Mercenaries 2creator Pandemic Studios seized that opportunity to make Sarah Palin and Barack Obama characters available for its over-the-top open-world action game with the "Blow It Up Again" expansion. Seeing Palin with an RPG slung over her shoulder was strangely a little less unsettling than watching Obama take up arms, perhaps because of her real-world devotion to the National Rifle Association.3Aerosmith (Revolution X, 1994)In 1994 the so-called Bad Boys from Boston made the first of a string of video game performances.Revolution Xstarted life in the arcades, presenting a rock-themed light-gun shooter resplendent with digitised performances by Aerosmith themselves, and enough thong-based content to inspire publishers to tone down the more "exotic" elements. Except, that is, for the PlayStation and Saturn versions, which declined to censor images that celebrated Aerosmith's rock'n'roll lifestyle – in this case in the form of poorly digitised buttocks.4Phil Collins (Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories, 2006)Phil Collins's self-starring role in theGTA:IIIspin-off is one of gaming's most curious celebrity appearances. The player has the somewhat unlikely task of delivering the mob-beset Collins safely to a gig, under the instruction of a film director. What's particularly strange, however, is the game's gig scene, resplendent with Collins's hit In the Air Tonight, which it appears was beyond the real-world Collins, who was replaced by an actor for the sequence. There is previous here as well, of course. Collins starred in the pilot of the originalMiami Vice, which is often cited as a significant influence onVice City's development.5 Gary Coleman (Postal 2, 2003)Postal 2relied heavily on controversy to shift units. But if extremes of violence weren't enough to secure the game coverage, it had a secret weapon. Gary Coleman, ofDiff'rent Strokesfame, appeared as himself in the game. And like Phil Collins, Coleman was the star of a player mission. On completing the task of securing Coleman's autograph, the player character could be heard congratulating the actor for his role inThe Facts of Life –aDiff'rent Strokesspin-off series in which Coleman actually only made two cameo appearances. Elsewhere inPostal 2the former child-star exchanges fire with the police, and later assumes the form of an evil clone in a hallucination scene.6Justin Bieber (NBA 2K13, 2012)At a less-than-looming 5ft 8in, pop wunderkind Bieber isn't the obvious choice as a celebrity star in a basketball game. But the NBA games have long provided a digital spotlight for the most unlikely public figures, from Beastie Boys to Hillary Clinton. And for the second time in this list, Sarah Palin. As for Bieber's role in the series, while his likeness made the courts, his music wasn't so lucky with regard to the soundtrack.KITBAGKelux Xbox One Kinect Camera Sensor 2 Privacy CoverTaken in isolation, Kelux's privacy cover is not really a gadget. Quite simply, it's a plastic flap, hardly a tantalising glimpse into the future of gaming hardware. But its existence is a telling reflection of something bigger; concerns around privacy in the connected world. Unusually, the Privacy Cover is a gadget designed to stop another from functioning. It clips over the cameras of the Xbox One's Kinect motion control hardware, with a view to stopping companies capturing data. It's largely fuelled by paranoia, as Microsoft have firm rules to stifle privacy-invading misuse of the newest Kinect.Pixel perfectStill an absolutely iconic title after all these years,Asteroids, it seems, will not go away. Proving the arcade release's simple mechanics are timeless, some 35 years after its debut it is still inspiring contemporary titles.Luftrausersis the latest from indie darlings Vlambeer, and despite many additions to the formula, it builds onAsteroids' familiar control system. With boost, momentum, rotation and firepower, players must empty the skies of foes. A PC, Mac, Linux, PS Vita and PS3 release,Luftrausersgives the player a wealth of distinct enemies, customisable fighter craft and goals that engender different strategies and play styles. The game lacks some of the purity and depth of its most refined genre-mates, but thanks to strong visual flare, nostalgically rasping audio and accessible gameplay, it's enormously fun throughout.
Peanut butter. Flour. Baking soda. I am standing in a supermarket in San Francisco reading off the ingredients for a recipe. But it is no crumpled piece of paper or smart phone I am looking at. Rather the list is projected just above my right eye.I am pacing the aisles while wearingGoogle Glass, the head-mounted computer developed in Google's secretive lab, Google X. It's worn like a pair of glasses and holds a glass prism just over my right eye in which I can see a translucent, colour display when I move my eyes slightly upwards. I can record videos with a voice command and snap photos by winking.But now I'm usingAllthecooks, one of the handful of apps in Google's Glassware store. I got my list by saying, "OK Glass, find a recipe for peanut butter cookies" to myself while standing in front of the vast and varied peanut butter section found in every US supermarket.I walk around the store gathering what I need, occasionally glancing up to see the ingredients list and feeling a little awkward.I am both present in the moment and playing with a computer on my head. At one point my husband video-calls me from his desk. He gets a live feed from me in the cereal aisle while I enjoy a view of his head bobbing in front of me.Later, an app I installed calledField Trip, which gives you interesting facts about where you are, pops up and reads a short history of the building out loud in synthesised speech. It is fun floating in the Google Glass bubble – sort of like being high on life or enjoying a joke no one else knows – and I make the heads of other shoppers turn."She has those Google Glasses on, cool!" says a 12-year-old girl, excitedly pointing me out to her baffled grandmother."I like your glasses," says the security guard. I smile, enjoying my new cachet.Then my friendly checkout worker, who I was hoping would also be impressed, cuts me down to size. After he happily chats to me without remarking on my headwear, I ask if he has noticed. Of course he has, he tells me. "You know what you look like? An optometrist when they wear those pieces on their eyes," he says.Glass isn't publicly available yet. The version I am using is a kind of prototype, known as the Explorer edition, dispensed by Google to a select group of US "explorers" who pay $1,500 for the privilege.Since Glass made its first public appearance in 2012, it has been spoofed by theSimpsons(as the "Oogle Goggles"), sported by the famous (from actor Sarah Jessica Parker to politician Newt Gingrich), attracted the interest of the porn industry (Google banned the Tits and Glass app) and featured in aVoguefashion spread. But as Google prepares to start selling a cheaper, mass-market version of Glass, possibly later this year, society seems divided about whether the device is welcome. Critics complain that it looks silly and endangers privacy. Bars in San Francisco and Seattle and casinos in Las Vegas and New Jersey have pre-emptively banned it, while regulators in some states are considering laws that forbid drivers from using Glass.Google Glasses are banned at a bar in San Francisco. Photograph: Steve Rhodes/CorbisGoogle's gadget is at a crossroads. Will the company's face computer be the next iPhone, and become a must-have device, or the nextSegwaymotorised scooter – an over-hyped idea that becomes a laughable novelty?Google isn't breaking entirely new ground here. The movement of hackers, programmers and tinkerers yearning to strap computers on to their bodies and insert displays into their vision goes back 30 years.Only now batteries and displays have got smaller and more efficient and people have become addicted to smartphones. Google isn't the only company working on wearable gadgets for the mass market, either. Samsung, Apple and other electronics companies are creating and filing patents on smart watches and other designs.But with Glass, Google has chosen a far more provocative vision than any of its competitors. We are used to people glancing at their wrists for information, not to their getting it by rolling their eyes upwards and focusing on the middle distance.Still, Steve Lee, Google's product director for Glass, predicts that everyone will get on the bandwagon before too long. Next time you're on the bus, picture everyone either using a smartphone or wearing glasses with a small prism just over one eye. Lee has a three-part plan for how to get to that point, with his team focusing on improving Glass's form by working on the hardware, on the experience of using it through improvements to the software; and giving people more reasons to care about the device by expanding the selection of third-party apps (so far there are under 50 in the official Glassware store).I got a sense of Lee's efforts to improve the form first hand when earlier I visited the Google Glass showroom in downtown San Francisco. The so-called base camp, which sports a beautiful view of the Bay bridge out of the window, is one of a handful of places where explorers come to collect their new Glass and get some expert assistance with fitting and using them for the first time.Google Glass base camp in San Francisco. Photograph: Zoë CorbynDisplayed on the walls is the Google Glass titanium range. Introduced in January, the range includes five colours for Google Glass, four prescription frames which make it possible for prescription spectacles wearers to use them and new twist-on sunglass shades. More are set to follow.The effort to improve the form of Glass recently got another major boost through Google striking a deal with Luxottica Group, the largest eyeglass company in the world and owner of RayBan and Oakley, to design, manufacture and distribute frames for the device."We are going to have many more styles, many more brands [and] that is going to open Glass up to even more people," says Lee. "I envisage a future in which people look back and say, 'Why would I wear dumb eyewear?'"My riposte is obvious: "Why would I wear smart eyewear?"Lee doesn't pitch any one futuristic app. "The vision for this product is enhancing you now," he says, arguing that having easy, voice-controlled access to seemingly basic features such as camera, web search and messaging is life-changing.As an avid cyclist, he can capture and share moments from the roads of California and look up cycling and route information without letting go of the handlebars.Thad Starner, an associate professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology and a technical lead on Glass, says: "It's a new way of working with technology that is much more fluid and fast." As he sees it, Glass extends our selves by slashing the time between intention and (digital) action. "Just think about the number of times you pull out a smartphone from your pocket and navigate to the interface. That takes about 23 seconds on average and that means it is actually killing hours of your day, just on your smartphone," he says.The time on Glass between intention and action is seconds. Promotional videos Google has made echo Starner's view, emphasising taking and sharing photos and videos.Peter Fader, a marketing professor at Wharton Business School in Philadelphia, whose son is a Glass Explorer, is less sure that pitching Glass as a better way of taking photos is the best use to emphasise. Yet looking at the Glassware app store is uninspiring."The apps are very poorly developed and a lot of people will look at it right now and say 'Yeah, I can take creepy pictures but what else?'" says Fader.Redg Snodgrass, whose company Wearable World runs the annual Glazed conference in San Francisco and other industry events about wearable computing, agrees, saying Google must be careful to manage expectations for Glass.That means getting the price right, and telling people who buy the first commercial version that it won't be as polished as an iPhone just yet.Google is tight-lipped so far about how it plans to make money out of Glass. In addition to selling units, an advertising component is inevitable, Snodgrass believes.As for price, Google is also saying nothing publicly. An analyst at IHS Insight, which strips down phones, tablets and other devices to estimate their costs, recently estimated inMIT Technology Reviewthatsmart glasses could sell for about $400 (£240) and other industry watchers have made similar estimates.Fader thinks Google might do well to step back from positioning Glass solely as a mass consumer device and explore more niche applications. It's the kind of approach that gave us the mobile phone."Some brilliant person decided no one was going to need a cellphone except doctors, real estate professionals and construction managers," says Fader, "so they really focused their efforts on just those sectors – and it leaked from there."Zoë Corbyn wearing Google Glass.Some professional applications for Glass are developing, particularly in the field of healthcare, albeit without Google's direct support. A surgeon at the University of California, San Francisco, is using the device to see X-rays while he operates. A trial with new mothers in Melbourne, Australia, uses Glass to have distant breastfeeding counsellors offer advice and suggest adjustments while a baby feeds. Virgin Atlantic and reportedly the New York police department are also testing it.A key part of Google's strategy in developing Glass has been the explorer programme. Google won't say exactly how many explorers it has but the first part of the programme signed up 2,000 developers and the second a further group of 8,000 chosen from those who wrote the best tweets and status updates with ideas for using Glass. Explorers can now invite friends, though they have to be based in the US. Whether the explorer programme will come to UK, Google won't say.I contact a few explorers to find out how they are using it and what they think about its mass market potential. Shane Walker, a serial startup founder whose latest venture is a company developing an app for photo and video sharing on Glass, is using it at his wedding in September. After he and his bride make their vows they plan to repeat them with each taking it in turn to wear Glass and record the other.Zack Freedman, who lives in New Jersey, describes himself on Twitter as a "diehard Glasshole" (the name given to Glass devotees when they ignore the outside world). He builds electronics prototypes for a living and wore his own homemade wearable face computer before he got Glass in November 2013. He is the only person who tells me Glass is a little too sleek for his tastes.He wears Glass at all times, pulling it down when not in use. He uses it most for managing a to-do list (he has built his own app that he plans to release), getting directions and hands-free texting. "As of now it doesn't really allow you to do anything new; it just allows you to do a lot of things better," he says. "I believe they will sell units. The future, though, depends on whether it becomes a tool that people actually need."Chris Maddern, a British software engineer who lives in New York, got his Glass in June 2013. He wears it often, using it mostly to keep his phone in his pocket, which with Glass means speaking tweets. He took the device home to the UK for Christmas where he wore it more than usual because he was interested to gauge reactions.Walking through airport security at Heathrow he was asked to take it off, which hasn't happened to him before.  He wore it on the underground, strolled down Oxford Street and took it to Boujis club in South Kensington fielding questions from the curious about what it was.He can't see Glass in its current form being adopted by the masses; but as the units get smaller and there is greater frame choice, he can definitely see the potential. "It is very visually arresting," he says.Another of Google Glass's hurdles is how it looks. In some circles the way it stands out is a plus. Eyewear designerStevie Boicounts Lady Gaga among his clients and loves their techno-chic look: "I think Google Glass has a chance to change the face of eyewear and technology all at once."A model wears Google Glasses at the Diane von Furstenberg spring/summer 2013 collection show during New York Fashion Week. Photograph: Andrew Kelly/ReutersThen again, Gaga's wardrobe choices are better known for grabbing headlines than becoming everyday wear for any and all social groups. The friend that lends me her Glass to wear in public (Google is reluctant to lend them to journalists, given it is a work in progress) was happy to let me borrow it because she never uses it.Winning a spot as an Explorer via the #ifihadglass campaign, she bought it as a marketing expense for her tech business thinking her clients would think it was cool. But she hasn't opened the box since she collected it."I thought I would wear it to conferences but I don't want to bring that much attention to myself," she says. "It is so dumb-looking. It is embarrassing."The urban sophisticates that gadget companies rely on to make new products stick will be a tough sell, says Elliot Aronow, a New York designer and men's style expert with an accessories brand called#jacques-Elliott."The irony is that it works better as a high-fashion, half-joking, half-serious accessory than as something you really want to walk around in," he says. "For sophisticated, urban people I think it is going to be a tough sell. No matter how much they refine the aesthetic with that sort of Warby Parkerish [an American brand of glasses] look that they are going for, you still kind of look like a cyborg nincompoop. If that is who you think you are, then shine on."Tasha Lewis, a researcher at Cornell University in New York state, who studies the impact of technology in the apparel industry, is less sceptical. "I think there is a geek-influenced fashion wave happening," she says. "Everybody is not necessarily a geek but you can look like one and I think that is where you want to position the product."More choice in frames and shades will help Google catch that, she says, and provide a way for people to adopt Glass without having to sign up to one prescribed identity.Yet probably the most significant hurdle Google Glass now faces before popular adoption is its photo and video capabilities, which make some people uneasy and others upset. After the supermarket, and a battery recharge, I wear Glass to take my daughter to the playground. She seems indifferent to the fact, while her dad loves it because he gets to share what I see via a Google Hangout video call during his tea break. But for me it becomes socially awkward. It's not unusual to see parents using smartphones to take photos or record video at the playground. But a father playing nearby with his own child is clearly on edge when he sees me talking during my video call. I explain I am not recording or photographing, and ask how my use of Glass made him feel.Sergey Brin, co-founder of Google and director of special projects, wears Google Glasses. Photograph: Stephen Lam/Reuters"If you had got much closer I was going to ask if that was recording because it is making me feel a little uncomfortable," he says. "I don't mind about me, but for the kids."Walking home through the park I pass two men in conversation coming the other way. "Shhh, don't talk," one says as I draw near. Earlier that day I had walked by a reminder that there have been more serious confrontations over privacy. A paper sign outside one of my local dive bars, Molotov's, states: "No recording of audio or video on the premises. You may be asked to leave if you violate this policy".The policy was triggered by Glass ExplorerSarah Slocumgetting into a physical dispute at the bar after taking video of other drinkers.I am pinged again by the Field Trip app which lets me know Janis Joplin's old house is around the corner (it is certainly easy to see how Glass might be fun as a tourist). A man on a bike stops to ask me if I am lost as I fumble with my face trying to take a vignette of what I am seeing in my vision.Evan Selinger, an ethicist at the Rochester Institute of Technology in New York state, who studies emerging technology, points out that US law provides no reasonable expectation of privacy in public (UK law is similar on this specific point). But the limitations of technology until recently have afforded a kind of de facto protection he calls "privacy by obscurity"."We are living in a world where obscurity is being constantly diminished," he says. "In the age of big data the capacity for anything we say to be found and aggregated and put into a composite increases significantly. Google Glass fits into that pattern."With the advent of the smartphone it has become far easier to take pictures – flattering or otherwise – and tag and disseminate them widely. Google Glass makes that significantly easier still, notes Selinger. Norms of etiquette will doubtless evolve but in many ways society is still grappling with when it is ok to use the smartphone. "Google Glass is yet another tidal wave on top of a monsoon of uncertainty." Glass affords three ways of taking a picture – saying: "OK Glass, take a picture", tapping the side, or simply by winking an eye. Google has pledged not to allow facial recognition software on to Glass, at least for the moment, but even without the software it remains a significant challenge to our understanding of public social space, says Selinger.He wonders whether new privacy laws might result from the clash of Glass and public society, something that happened after the first Kodak camera became popular after its 1888 release. There are signs that people are ready to push back."There really is a sense that in the post-Snowden world people do care more or at least they give lip service to caring more about privacy," says Selinger. "We are living at a crucial and interesting historical moment where people are legitimately questioning what they are giving up in the name of convenient consumer electronics."Thad Starner is dismissive of the privacy issues with Glass. It is apparent when Glass is on, he says, and when people use Glass they soon find taking pictures is not that interesting: real life is actually a whole lot more boring.I check in with a UK lawyer on whether there is likely to be any specific legal hurdles for Glass in the UK and Europe. David Cook, data security solicitor at Pannone, part of Slater and Gordon in Manchester, says: "I feel that the European human rights and data protection legislation could possibly affect the launch of Glass in the UK and Europe. It is difficult to foresee how Google will ensure that the product will comply with the legislation in advance of its release date."However, given the history of Google, I do fear that the product will simply be launched in a non-compliant state and that Google will try to negotiate its position with European regulators after the event."Of course, this is putting the cart before the horse, but it is absolutely consistent with the Google modus operandi – collect the data first and worry about the law later."Google Glass TeardownPhotograph: Scott Torborg and Star SimpsonTechnology evangelist and blogger Robert Scoble was excited by Google Glass at first and has been wearing it solidly for nearly a year. But recently he has started to take it off. The reason, he says, is because its technical flaws frustrate him too much (though there have been nine software updates since the Explorer edition was released).If Google Glass were launched today it would not be going mainstream, he says. "It is just not a product ready for normal people. It is deeply flawed on almost every level. You can't edit photos; you can't upload them to Instagram; you can't put in more than 10 contacts; directions struggle with voice recognition; and there is no feature that lets you broadcast live video."Whether they will be fixed in the consumer version remains to be seen says Scoble. But he wonders if history might ultimately remember Google Glass as the Newton (Apple's precursor to the iPhone) of face computers."The Newton was clearly the future but it was flawed in a lot of ways and it took a decade for the iPhone to come out which is really the product we wanted. It might be a decade before a product comes along that really nails what we need."Ian Bogost, who holds a chair in media studies at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, thinks people will get over their reserve about Google Glass too. He sees it as a logical continuation of a "progression to withdrawnness and inwardness" that we have already been pursuing, with or without knowing it, with our mobile devices."The question is, 'Will Google Glass become mainstream and popular?' I guess I am worried that we have already made that decision. It has already been precluded by the question of whether we will allow a few large private technology companies like Google to determine by decree how we behave in contemporary society. And the answer seems to be yes."Until we can stop and ask what are the social values that we want to live under and what are the types of progress that we want to invest in, then we will end up with only the kinds of progress that big companies like Google with lots of money to do whatever they want can pursue."For my part I can see how Glass is useful beyond the camera functions. But it made me feel I had power over people around me in a way I didn't personally feel comfortable with.As for whether it will be a Segway or a smartphone, I'm hedging my bets and saying probably something in between.How to make peanut butter cookies using Google Glasses. Photograph: Zoë CorbynLater that evening I don the Glass again. My husband finds it unnerving to have a conversation with me wearing them. "It is like you are looking through me when you glance at it," he says.I head for the kitchen to make my hands-free peanut butter cookie recipe alone. It is blissful to use it without anyone else around. I like Glass – in private.
It's said you're a mean shot around parliament with aNerf gun. Why do you have one?Why not? Somebody gave me a Nerf gun and because my office is over a quad, I thought we'd have a go and test it. It says on the packet it can reach 30 metres. Really, it was a consumer rights issue.Were you disappointed?No, I hit him! I didn't realise my colleague was in a meeting at the time, but he left his windows open. But Iain Wright [Labour MP for Hartlepool] was a very good sport about it. Surely that's the point about technology: to explore it and see if it works.How has technology changed  the lives of MPs?Oh, fundamentally. And one of the reasons I'm excited about the future is technology, but it's always been a source of frustration to me that I'm not very technologically capable. I went to a coding lesson at a school and was trying to make my Gruffalo breakdance and there were eight-year-old children going: "No, you've got that all wrong."MPs have really taken to Twitter – they sent almost a million messages in 2013. Isn't that excessive?Well, it depends. If you're tweeting your press releases that's not very interactive. If you are having conversations with people, that is opening a way of networking and connecting with people that previously was harder to do because of the physical time and place. I dread to think how many I sent in 2013.How many do you think?Well [checks phone] I'm up to 41,000, but I joined in 2008. [Creasy sent 12,739 in 2013, putting her third on the list of parliament's top tweeters.] If it's a numbers game, it's about quality not quantity.Are you generally an early adopter?I joined Jelly the other week, but it's not sticky enough for me. The same for Depop – the one about selling – and I gave up on Snapchat quite quickly because I got bored with it. But I do use Vine.Who's your favourite person on Twitter?Will.i.am or Jedward because of the sheer surrealism of what they tweet. Every time I look at it I just can't help it, I'm like: "I love these people!" Their inside voice is being used outside, that is genius.In what ways has technology made your life worse?I have to admit finding somebody tweeting a picture of me in the mosh pit at the Wedding Present was quite upsetting. I'm not a celebrity – politics is showbusiness for ugly people, isn't it? – but I was not being your MP, I was just dancing. Badly. And I've obviously had a very negative experience of technology in terms of [abuse from trolls on] online media and Twitter, but I'm very clear with people that that's not about Twitter, it's about the idiots who are using it.What gadget would you like to see invented?It sort of has been invented, but I recently got to play with someGoogle Glasses. They were so exciting. On a very basic level, as I get older, they would be quite useful to buttress my ageing memory.Is phone etiquette important?I've never really thought about it, but I do have my phone on silent most of the time. I really enjoy the fact that if you do speaking events, you can now interact with the audience online and offline. When I first did it, I was doing a  Labour student event and some girl tweeted: "Stella's got really horrible hair." So I tweeted her back: "Well how would you cut it then?" But traditionally, you'd get one or two questions; it's not very participative, not very empowering for people because it's not a real dialogue or a relationship. That's different now.Does it alarm you that when people do have the power they are often abusive?That's why it's important to call people out. That's why I will respond: "Oh hi, yeah, I've read that because this is a public forum." But our culture is changing and we need more voices not fewer.Time travel – when would you go to?Forwards or backwards? It sounds likeBill &amp; Ted's Excellent Adventureand of course the question is: are you Bill or are you Ted? Oooh, I guess I'd go into the future to know that it was worth fighting for. Cheesy but true. And then I'd check the lottery numbers.You're a very competitive pub quizzer. Have they been ruined by smartphones?I bloody hope not. My phone stays in my bag when I'm at theMcGuffins[film and TV quiz]. It's all up here [taps forehead]. The whole thing about doing pub quizzes is that it's fun and it's competitive, and it's not really fun and competitive if you delegate it to your phone. So I absolutely morally object to people cheating in pub quizzes. But blame the person, not the technology.
Ever since curiosity got the better of our ancestors, humans have embraced trial, error and refinement to produce some stonking inventions.This continual journey towards a hassle-free future has meant extremely fast progression, with new inventions pushing at the boundaries of what we deem possible.Celebrating the joy of imaginative solutions and unexpected endeavours, The Maker Faire, on 26 and 27 April in Newcastle's Life Science Centre, is your chance to get in on the action. It will showcase phenomena from a hydraulically powered robotic hand that can squash a car in its fist, to one of the world's most advanced artificial intelligence projects,  an android of sci-fi legend Philip K Dick.There will be many chances to get hands-on, be it wielding a screwdriver to fix an electrical item in the Restart Project, building a lie detector from scratch, or trying to beat a robotic knitting machine at its own game. There are also talks by sci-fi author Cory Doctorow and tech-savvy musician Sarah Angliss.Tech Monthlyhas three pairs of tickets up for grabs. To have a chance of winning, email tech.monthly@observer.co.uk before 13 April with the answer to the question: Which Brit invented the world wide web? Winners will be chosen randomly.1. The 'Win a pair of tickets to the Maker Faire UK'' (the "Competition") is open to residents of the UK aged 18 and over.2. The Competition is not open to employees or agencies of Guardian News &amp; Media Limited ("GNM", the "Promoter" or "We"), their group companies or family members, the International Centre for Life Trust, their group companies or family members, or anyone else connected with the Competition.3. Entry into the Competition is deemed as acceptance of these Terms and Conditions.4. To enter the Competition you must email the correct answer to the question above to tech.monthly@observer.co.uk, together with your name, telephone number and postal address. If you have any questions about how to enter or in connection with the Competition, please e-mail us at tech.monthly@observer.co.uk with "Maker Faire" in the subject line.5. Only one entry per person. Entries on behalf of another person will not be accepted and joint submissions are not allowed. You are responsible for the cost (if any) of sending your Competition entry to us.6. No responsibility is taken for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered for any technical or other reason. Proof of delivery of the entry is not proof of receipt.7. The Competition closes at 23:59 on Saturday 12 April 2014.  Entries received after that date and time will not be considered.8. Three winners will be chosen from a random draw of correct entries.9. Each winner will receive a pair of adult tickets to cover both days of the Maker Faire UK event taking place on 26-27 April 2014, at the Life Science Centre in Newcastle UK.  (the "Event").  More details of the Event can be found here: http://www.makerfaireuk.com/.  GNM accepts no responsibility for any costs associated with the prize and not specifically included in the prize including, without limitation, travel to or from the Event, accommodation and/or meals.10. The winners will be notified by email by GNM on or before 16 April 2014 and given details of how to claim their prize. Due to the time limited nature of the prize, if a winner does not respond within 7 days of being notified, then the winner's prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner (and that winner will have to respond to the email from GNM within 7 days or else they will also forfeit their prize). If the winner rejects their prize, then the winner's prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner.11. The prize will be sent to the winners by GNM by 23 April 2014.12. The prize is non-exchangeable, non-transferable, and is not redeemable for cash or other prizes.13. GNM retains the right to substitute the prize with another prize of similar value in the event the original prize offered is not available.14. The name and county of the winners can be obtained after 28 April 2014 by sending a stamped addressed envelope to the following address: Observer Tech Monthly, Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. The winner may be required for promotional activity related to the Competition and each winner shall participate in such activity on the Promoter's reasonable request.15. GNM shall use and take care of any personal information you supply to it as described in its privacy policy, a copy of which can be seen at http://www.theguardian.com/help/privacy-policy, and in accordance with data protection legislation. By entering the competition, you agree to the collection, retention, use and distribution of your personal information in order to process and contact you about your competition entry, and for the purposes outlined in paragraph 14 above.16. No purchase necessary.17. Nothing in these terms and conditions shall exclude the liability of GNM under law for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation, or for death or personal injury as a result of its negligence.18. GNM accepts no responsibility for any damage, loss, liabilities, injury or disappointment incurred or suffered by you as a result of entering the Competition or accepting the prize. GNM further disclaims liability for any injury or damage to your or any other person's computer relating to or resulting from participation in or downloading any materials in connection with the Competition.19. GNM reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, this Competition with or without prior notice due to reasons outside its control (including, without limitation, in the case of anticipated, suspected or actual fraud). The decision of GNM in all matters under its control is final and binding and no correspondence will be &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; entered into.&nbsp; GNM reserves the right to discount entries if it suspects fraudulent bulk Entries or multiple Entries have been submitted to inappropriately influence or manipulate the selection of the winners.20. GNM &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; shall not be liable for any failure to comply with its obligations &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; where the failure is caused by something outside its reasonable &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; control. Such circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; weather conditions, fire, flood, hurricane, strike, industrial &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; dispute, war, hostilities, political unrest, riots, civil commotion, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; inevitable accidents, supervening legislation or any other &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; circumstances amounting to force majeure.21. The Competition and these terms and conditions will be governed by English law and will be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England and Wales.22. Promoter: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Place, 90 York Way, London, N1 9GU.
Q Someone told me that I shouldn't do my banking on public Wi-Fi. Why is that?Andy, via emailA Many people try to find free Wi-Fi when out and about, myself included, but public Wi-Fi networks have issues, mostly the inherent insecurity in having a network whereby you don't know the intentions of the connected parties and have no control over who can connect. Even if a Wi-Fi network has a password, that doesn't keep you safe from other people on the network. It's very simple for any of them to see what you're doing and, in some cases, steal personal information or passwords. However, you can do something about this. The easiest way to protect yourself would be to use a VPN (Virtual Private Network) to encrypt your connection. The easiest way to do this is to use a service likeCloak,Hotspot Shield, orStrongVPN.Q Is there a way to get pictures off my phone without sending them one at a time?Jordan, via emailA If you have an iPhone, you can use iPhoto for OS X andPhoto Galleryfor Windows. For Android, use Image Capture on the Mac. The phone will show up in the left sidebar and you can pick and choose which photos to import. Windows-based Android users can also use Photo Gallery.Alternatively, a Dropbox account is also a good way to get photos on to your computer. Sign-up for an account, install it on your computer and phone and set up photo syncing. Launch Dropbox on the phone when you want to sync new photos and it will happen automatically.Q There has been lots of news lately about sites being hacked and people stealing information. How can I protect myself?Thelma, via emailA In most cases, hackers will be after your username and password. But when a website has followed good practices and stored your password using a good hashing algorithm (a process that turns your password into a long string of letters and numbers, it's a one-way process, which means that you can't get it back) such as the bcrypt algorithm with unique salts (long random strings added to the start or end of a string before hashing). Then the risks are reduced. However, this is not an alternative togood password policiessuch as using 1Password, LastPass or similar to generate and save passwords to reduce the risk frombrute force attacksand similar.Q What is kernel_task on my Mac, and why is it using so much memory?Romola, via emailA In its simplest form, kernel_task is the brain of Mac OS X. It handles the resources that software and processes require. It manages multitasking scheduling, system input/output, virtual memory and passing data between processes. The kernel is also expanded with kernel extensions (kexts) that allow it to manage hardware features like peripherals, graphics cards, bluetooth, Wi-Fi and the hard drive.When you start up your computer, extensions will load, and not all of the services will be in use. The computer may be ready to use them, but will not load them completely until you need them. This is why if you check Activity Monitor on startup, then you may see kernel_task only taking a small amount of RAM, because there aren't many things loaded into memory. This quickly grows, however, as you use features such as Wi-Fi, Peripherals and the iSight camera, then kernel_task will load the resources and grow in size.Q I have a Raspberry Pi. What are some fun projects for learning to program with it?Connie, via emailA To get started with programming on the Pi, you could use the drag and drop softwareScratchfrom MIT to get used to the concepts and fundamentals such as variables, loops and input/output. A good introduction to Scratch is available atMakeZine.A popular language of choice among many Pi owners isPython. The Raspberry Pi was designed to teach people Python, although you can use any other language that you'd like. Python is an extremely powerful and flexible language that will let you build lots of software and you can even use it to interface with hardware on the Pi.Python is an easy language to get started with and will give you a good basis in programming to move to other languages later. Python's flexibility and ease of use have caused it to be a major language in the industry with projects such as YouTube and Reddit written in it. Some of the biggest users of Python are Google, Yahoo, Cern and Nasa. I'd also recommendProgramming theRaspberry Pi,Getting started with Pythonby Simon MonkandCodeacademywhich features excellent interactive coding tutorials.Daniel Tomlinson is a freelance programmer for iOS and the web. He has been coding since he was eight. He is an ambassador for Young Rewired State and is on Twitter @DanToml. If you have a tech problem for Daniel, email tech.questions@observer.co.uk with your name and address
A moody, jazz-filled mid-20th century San Francisco is the stage for this grimy slice of human desperation. Convict Joe, sentenced to life, aims to escape the Rock, while his musician wife Christine plans to leave the city for a new life in Mexico. It's an unusually realistic scenario for a point-and-click adventure game, but that realism is part of the appeal. The game's tone and locations evoke the period, right down to the leads encountering the uncomfortable casual racism of the day. Fantastic voice acting and intriguing dialogue options also impress. Elsewhere though,1954: Alcatrazfails to live up to its potential. Despite a noirish charm, the character designs do not translate well to 3D, resulting in blocky and weirdly misshapen figures. Puzzles are also disappointingly simplistic in places. For a pleasingly alternative approach to adventure games,Alcatrazis worth a look, but the genre can, and has, done better.
Dimensions are a matter of perspective. A somewhat counter-intuitive and disarming idea but one that must be applied to the wonderfulFez, which has finally arrived on PlayStation 3, 4 and Vita after huge success on XBLA. Ostensibly a 2D platform game,Fez'svisually splendid, spacious, rural world – itself a homage to vintage gaming archetypes – is in fact a 3D realm. Its levels are explored in two dimensions, but the viewpoint can be revolved through three dimensions. Which is a mechanic the game uses to great effect, presenting the player with a toybox of interactive optical illusions, as a turn of 90 degrees rearranges each level's elements. Alongside this bewildering and yet fascinating structure, lies a terrific platformer, intelligent and intriguing in its realisation. The core game can be concluded in some eight hours, but it does offer more and to delve into its depths is truly satisfying, as concealed within are a wealth of abstract codes and cryptic puzzles.
Bloody zombies.Yaiba: Ninja Gaiden&nbsp;Zis full of bloody, pus-dripping, disgusting zombies. It's a far cry from the primeNinja Gaidengames, with a profanity-spewing cybernetic bad-boy in a neon-lit nightmare replacing the refined style and stoic protagonist of the series' core entries. Gameplay is reminiscent of theDynasty Warriorsseries, albeit with gratuitous shock and gore.Yaibacuts down hordes of necrotised foes, screaming obscenities and brutalising their remains with exaggerated finishing moves. Unfortunately, there's no sense of resistance or challenge. For the most part, you wade through zombies without effort, and even the tougher enemies have predictable attack patterns, easily countered with a bashed-out combo. There's a speed and fluidity to the game that's easily appreciated though, and the stylised visuals – halfway between American superhero comics and graffiti – are superb. It's just a shame there's no meat on the bones of this zombie apocalypse.
A concept of enduring utility rarely emerges from the market research business, but theGartner hype cycleis an exception that proves the rule. It is a graph that describes the life cycle of a technological innovation in five phases. First, there's the "trigger" that kicks off the feverish excitement and leads to a rapid escalation in public interest, which eventually leads to a "peak of inflated expectations" (phase two), after which there's a steep decline as further experimentation reveals that the innovation fails to deliver on the original – extravagant – claims that were made for it. The curve then bottoms out in a "trough of disillusionment" (phase three), after which there's a slow but steady rise in interest (the "slope of enlightenment" – phase four) as companies discover applications that really do work. The final phase is the "plateau of productivity" – the phase where useful applications of the idea finally become mainstream. The time between phases one and five varies between technologies and can be several decades long.As the "big data" bandwagon gathers steam, it's appropriate to ask where it currently sits on the hype cycle. The answer depends on which domain of application we're talking about. If it's the application of large-scale data analytics for commercial purposes, then many of the big corporations, especially the internet giants, are already into phase four. The same holds if the domain consists of the data-intensive sciences such as genomics, astrophysics and particle physics: the torrents of data being generated in these fields lie far beyond the processing capabilities of mere humans.But the big data evangelists have wider horizons than science and business: they see the technology as a tool for increasing our understanding of society and human behaviour and for improving public policy-making. After all, if your shtick is "evidence-based policy-making", then the more evidence you have, the better. And since big data can provide tons of evidence, what's not to like?So where on the hype cycle do societal applications of big data technology currently sit? The answer is phase one, the rapid ascent to the peak of inflated expectations, that period when people believe every positive rumour they hear and are deaf to sceptics and critics.It's largely Google's fault. Four years ago, its researchers caused a storm by revealing (in a paper published inNature) that web searches by Google users provided better and more timely information about the spread of influenza in the United States than did the data-gathering methods of the US government's Centres for Disease Control and Prevention. This paper triggered a frenzy of speculation about other possible public policy applications of massive-scale data analytics.As theeconomist Tim Harford puts it: "Not only wasGoogle Flu Trendsquick, accurate and cheap, it was theory-free. Google's&nbsp;engineers didn't bother to develop a hypothesis about what search terms – 'flu symptoms' or 'pharmacies near me' – might be correlated with the spread of the disease itself. The Google team just took their top 50m search terms and let the algorithms do the work."Thus was triggered the hype cycle. If Google could do this for flu, surely it could be done for lots of other societal issues. And maybe it can. But in this particular case, the enthusiasm turned out to be premature.Naturerecently reported that Google Flu Trends had gone astray. "After reliably providing a swift and accurate account of flu outbreaks for several winters," reports Harford, "the theory-free, data-rich model had lost its nose for where flu was going. Google's model pointed to a severe outbreak, but when the slow-and-steady data from the [US government centre] arrived, they showed that Google's estimates of the spread of flu-like illnesses were overstated by almost a factor of two."So what went wrong? Simply this: Google doesn't know anything about the causes of flu. It just knows aboutcorrelationsbetween search terms and outbreaks. But as every GCSE student knows, correlation is quite different from causation. And causation is the only basis we have for real understanding.Big data enthusiasts seem remarkably untroubled by this. In many cases, they say, knowingthattwo things are correlated is all you need to know. And indeed in commerce that may be reasonable. I buy stuff both for myself and my kids on Amazon, for example, which leads the company to conclude that I will be tempted not only byHugh Trevor-Roper's lettersbut also by new releases of hot rap artists. This is daft, but does no harm. Applying the kind of data analytics that produces such absurdities to public policy, however, would not be funny. But it's where the more rabid big data evangelists want to take us. We should tell them to get lost.
When you go to meet a hot young tech mogul in his hot young tech office, there are certain things you expect to see: a raw industrial space filled with dressed-down young people, many of whom have beards. A neon sign. Out front: a hot young receptionist, a fridge full of free drinks and a carefully curated collection of reading matter. In this instance, the standout title on the coffee table is:Feminist Ryan Gosling: Feminist Theory From Your Favourite Sensitive Movie Dude.At Pinterest's office in downtown San Francisco, it is entirely as I expect. Down the road from Groupon, round the corner from Airbnb, it is right in the middle of what has become tech dude central. Inside, it's lunchtime, which doesn't, as it does for the rest of the working world, mean a sandwich from Pret: it means a hot meal laid on every day for all employees and the lingering smell of chicken stir fry drifting up through the triple-height exposed brick-and-steel space.So far, so tech-cliché. And yet its 31-year-old co-founder, its chief-executive, the man who has overseen it being valued at£3.8bn) in its last round of funding, one ofFortunemagazine's, top 40 under-40 young entrepreneurs, and the presiding spirit of what has become the fastest growing social media site on the internet, is not what I expect. Ben Silbermann is not a hot young tech dude. Or if he is, he's keeping very quiet about it.Silbermann is the mild-mannered man of tech. He is polite. He is sincere. He comes from Iowa. If he were a character in a movie, it would star Jimmy Stewart. He is not a man you would pick from a crowd; I have difficulty, frankly, picking him from theteam page of his website. He is the Clark Kent of the San Francisco startup scene: the unremarkable ordinary guy who is concealing an extraordinary superpower, in Silbermann's case, the fact that his site is undergoing incredible, exponential growth: growing faster than Facebook, growing faster than Twitter, and that, arguably, its prospects for making money are better than both.US fashion designer Peter Som has 3.1 million followers on Pinterestpetersom; board:Peter Som Resort 2013; pinned fromfashionologie.comBut he is understated. When I ask him how it feels to be at the master controls of one of the fastest growing social networks, and whether the multi-billion dollar valuation has added on the pressure, he shrugs."Well, I think there is some pressure. But I think that what I really feel is that we've always made Pinterest to use and enjoy, and that was the same when it was a really small community when I knew all 500 users. The pressure is just in making a product that's really, really useful and really inspiring to you."In truth, all his answers are like this: modest, measured, a bit boring. For tech analysts, and tech investors, Pinterest is one of the most interesting sites out there. It is based on pretty pictures of pretty things, many of which people want to buy. It has a far more direct relationship to product than almost any other site. It has dollar signs written all over it. And yet, Silbermann could not be less excited. He is the nicely brought-up boy who's been taught that it's wrong to boast and the kind of bragging that is standard in almost any startup anywhere is absent in his talk.When we're setting up the interview, the PR asks me if I've ever used Pinterest. I have a little bit, I email back. I've been renovating a flat and I type incredibly dull things into its search box such as "white tiles bathroom" and it'll bring up photographs of beautiful bathrooms, flooded in light, exquisitely finished, which I then email to my builder. He'll pull them up on his phone while we look at the small windowless box in front of us and then he'll ask me questions like: "Gloss or matt?" and: "What colour grout?" and throws his hands up in despair when I say I'll have to do a little more research.This does, however, illustrate the official description of what Pinterest is: Silbermann calls it a "visual discovery tool". Theoretically, it allows you to discover things you didn't know you were looking for. So while I'm still confused about what tiles to get, and still have no idea about the grout, I did see pictures of nice baths. Interior decor is big on Pinterest. Fashion is big. Cooking is big. It's the Disney princess castle of the web. Porn is banned. Nudity is banned. Even "partial nudity" is banned. There's no snarkiness."Women are fromPinterest," one commentator extrapolated. "And men are fromReddit."It is the nice bit of the internet. The bit where you are most likely to come across a creatively decorated cupcake. Where you are most unlikely to come across a photograph of someone's naked genitals and an invitation for some hot phone sex.Design Quixotichas almost 2 million followers. Typography by Mike Greenwell; pinned fromgreenwellgraphics.comOr you were until a couple of weeks ago when thesite was hackedand someone thought it would be funny to take over users' pages and replace their carefully curated images of directional sofas and one-pot dinners with ones of what the American news sites called "butt pics" and we would call people's arses.I can imagine that was taken quite seriously inside the funky downtown San Francisco converted warehouse. Because Pinterest's core audience, its heartland, is not necessarily the tech crowd, or the west coast crowd, or the New York crowd.There were two sets of early adopters. One was the design bloggers, who loved its clean white space, and highly stylised design, a design of whichEvan Sharp, Silbermann's co-founder, did 50 fully functional versions, tweaking every part of it, many times, until he and Silbermann were convinced they had got it right.The other early adopters were the people to whom one journalist refers dismissively as "the mid-western scrapbooking set". By which, I think, he means ordinary people. Ones with homes to decorate and children to feed and holidays to plan.The "scrapbook" idea, though, is at Pinterest's heart. Other social media sites – Twitter, Facebook – rely on users generating their own content. But Silberman believes "most people don't have anything witty to say on Twitter" or any major news to share on Facebook. But everyone can collect stuff. Pinterest relies on "repinning" other people's content, other people's beautiful bathrooms.You don't have to pin photos of your own windowless box. You can pin pictures of the bathroom that you think should define you rather than the one you have.Even Silbermann, on his Pinterest page, has a board called"A Future Home"which features a modern, glass and steel box."Don't you already have a future home?" I ask him."Well, I have a home. A two-bedroom apartment. We rent it in the city." Really? That doesn't seem very tech mogul?"Yeah, I mean my life is pretty … I mean, it's exciting, but I don't know that it's conventionally glamorous. I drop my kid at daycare in the morning and then go to the office."I am agnostic about Pinterest – there's a limit to the number of bathrooms that I can bothered to look at – but then I'm not much of a girl. I find handbags unspeakably boring. Cupcakes make me gag.Mike D'spins of graphics, trainers and 'rad shit' have attracted 3.6 million followers. Pinned fromFotolito, 
Source: Calendar illustration to mark the 100th anniversary of Macmillan Cancer Support.But I speak to plenty of bloggers who enthuse wildly over it, particularly designers. Marcus Fairs, editor-in-chief ofDezeen, one of the most popular design sites on the net, says it has a utility that goes far beyond "showing how many friends you have or how clever you are".It drives more business to Dezeen's watch store, he says, than any other site."By being image-driven and only asking you to 'pin' pictures you like it takes to an extreme the linguistic contraction brought first by blogs, then by Twitter." You can see the attraction for designers. Anybody who's ever worked with one knows the glint they get in their eyes when they see an opportunity for, as Fairs says, removing "the need for language".Jeska Hearne, an interiors blogger, on the other hand, tells me it's where she spots rising interior trends and that one of the things she enjoys is the "happy, inspiring, positive online community".And I'm not agnostic about Silbermann. There's such a careful concern at work with everything he's done, and the way that he has gone about building the entire site, the entire business. An authenticity that runs through everything he does. A Jimmy Stewartness.There is nothing cynical about Pinterest. Nothing brash and rip-offy. It was built by hobbyists, for hobbyists. Silbermann's boyhood bug collection is the touchstone inspiration and the company's founding myth.Both his parents and and his siblings are doctors and he enrolled at Yale as a pre-med with the thought of becoming a doctor. And there's more than a touch of the bedside manner to the solicitous concern he has for his users.When I interview him, I know that he comes from Iowa. But it's only afterwards that I realise that he comes from Des Moines and I'm reminded of Bill Bryson, or, more specifically, the first line of Bryson's book,The Lost Continent, when he explains that he comes from Des Moines. "Someone had to."It goes on: "When you come from Des Moines you either accept the fact without question and settle down with a girl called Bobbie and get a job in the Firestone factory and live there forever or you spend your adolescence moaning at length about what a dump it is and how you can't wait to get out and then you settle down with a local girl called Bobbie and get a job in the Firestone factory and live there forever and ever."Silbermann didn't accept it. He decided against medicine, moved to Washington DC but all the time he had the feeling that he was in the wrong place at the wrong time.He started readingTechCrunch, a technology news website. He loved history. And he realised that the history of our time was being made on the west coast.He moved to San Francisco and got a job at Google. Which was his dream. But he wasn't an engineer. A genius teenage coder. He got a job in customer support. He answered the phones.It's an experience that never left him. He emailed the first 5,000 users of Pinterest personally to get their feedback. It's not a coincidence that Pinterest engaged the mainstream before it engaged the tech crowd. He emailed a link to the site to his friends shortly after launch and it was his friends in Iowa who were the first to pick it up and start using it. A while afterwards, he spoke at a conference in Salt Lake City and the Mormons got their hands on it; the "bloggernacle."US lifestyle queenmarthastewarthas pins for 2,500 of her favourite dishes. Pinned frommarthastewart.comThe Republican politician Mitt Romney's wife Ann was the first known celebrity user, though its most popular pinner for a long time wasSilbermann's mother. Her page is nothing if not quirky. Her profile picture is a chinstrap penguin from Antarctica. And she has more than eight million followers, most of whom do not have a clue that she is the co-founder's mother. They just really like her recipes. (He most popular board is one called "Delicious"). Of course, they're not her recipes. That's the Pinterest thing. Her board is like a bespoke recipe book of dishes curated from other people's recipe books."She uses it all the time. She just really enjoys it. And she's the kind of person who, if she didn't like it, she'd just be like, 'I don't like this thing'."Having spent four years perfecting the site, making it beautiful and easy to use and, in the early days, "curating" the users (design bloggers rather than porn barons, ideally), the plan this year is finally to monetise it with "promoted pins". Advertising, basically.It's a no-brainer, really. Pinterest is like the glossiest of glossiest mags filled with perfect things, perfectly photographed. (Other people's photographs, often; users agree to respect copyright in the terms of service agreement but it'sbeen a contentious issueand still open to abuse.)Pinterest is capitalism's ultimate tool. It's all about things. You can plan your holidays and look at photos of trees but it's mostly about stuff you can buy. "Promoted pins" will, at least, keep this relationship transparent.It is unclear how many top Pinterest users aren't already taking advertising cash on the sly. The users' terms of service were rewritten recently to ban it but it's obviously going on. I hear of several off the record accusations about top pinners making a good living from taking advertisers' cash.Still, when I ask Silbermann how he uses Pinterest, he tells me he planned his wedding on it.Really? I say. Gosh, do you you think you are the first straight man ever to create a wedding mood board? "No," he says. "I don't think so."Pinterest is different. And so is Silbermann, Silicon Valley's undude.
Fascination with the ultra-rich spans across the sexes but only female business leaders get asked if they have nannies, Facebook's billionaire  No 2 Sheryl Sandberg has said in aninterview with the Guardian.The Facebook chief operating officer complained that questions about her wealth were inappropriate, arguing: "It goes to the question of 'how do you do it all?' Which is a question we only ever ask women."Men aren't asked: 'How do you do that? How do you do this? Do you have nannies? Do you have a cook?' My husband has never been asked. I am asked that all the time."She added that she could not find a man who had been asked  about his parenting arrangements, citing as an example the chief executive of the company behind LinkedIn.The 44-year-old was previously a senior executive at Google and worked at the World Bank as a research assistant to the chief economist before joining Facebook. Forbes estimates that she is worth $1bn.In her interview, Sandberg revealed that she still had household arguments over "who does more". She is married to David Goldberg, the chief executive of SurveyMonkey, a company with a billion-dollar valuation. "The issue of who does more, men or women, is pertinent for everyone," she added.Sandberg also expressed relief that her generation had avoided the ubiquitous recording common among young people today, even though the retelling of everyday personal stories is one of the prime currencies of Facebook.Questioned about whether she had committed any youthful indiscretions, she said she had got drunk and thrown up in a cab, and had even called in sick with a hangover. "Look, I was a high-school kid, a college kid like others. There was a part of me that's glad fewer people had cell phones when I was that age."Sandberg joined Facebook in March 2008 as chief operating officer after meeting Mark Zuckerberg at a Christmas party and then again in the World Economic Forum at Davos. In 2013, she released her first book, Lean In, which covers feminist issues such as the lack of women in government and business leadership positions.
Ah, yes, the up! Not my exclamation mark, Volkswagen's. Which, along with the lower-case u, added tothe extreme&nbsp;wrongness of the last up! they sent me: a black up! Where was I supposed to go in it!? The 1970s?The Black And White Minstrel Show? One of those&nbsp;unreconstructed places in the West Country where the morris dancers still obstinately paint their faces black?This time they've sent a white up! I'm not sure that's much better, is it? A car for Michael Jackson, perhaps? A bit late, no? RIP.More importantly, it's an e-up! Eeee up, love. Maybe I should be heading for the north of England in it? Or would that be an a-up!? Anyway, it's out of the question: this is an electric car, so the north is out of range if you live, as I do, in the south. About 100 miles, VW&nbsp;say,&nbsp;is what you'll get out of one&nbsp;of these&nbsp;on a full charge, though&nbsp;that&nbsp;depends on what settings you have it on, how you drive it, the weather. The warmer it is, the better the battery works and the greater the range, so you are better off heading not north but south. Especially in winter, like a&nbsp;swallow, though Africa will require&nbsp;a lot of&nbsp;charging stops. You&nbsp;can do your own maths.Maths is the issue with the e-up!, as it still is with all electric cars. Two numbers, one too small, one too large, 100 and 19,250, miles and pounds respectively, range and price. And that £19,250 is for the cheapest modelafterthe £5,000 backhander from the government has been taken off. You can get a regular up! for less than half the price.If you can make the maths and those numbers work for you (maybe&nbsp;you do an awful lot of miles,&nbsp;but all of them short journeys, into the London congestion zone, from your house with off-street parking), then the e-up! is a brilliant car, charming, even. It might not be funky and futuristic like aBMW i3, but it's still a cute and stylish city car. Practical, too – bigger in than you would imagine from out.The lithium battery adds 230kg to&nbsp;the weight of a regular up!, but&nbsp;you don't feel it. The weight is all low down, the centre of gravity near the road. It is assured and nimble. And the immediate pick-up of the 81bhp motor more than compensates for those extra kilos. Electric cars are enormously entertaining to drive – not many people realise that – this one especially so. It's amusing, even, like&nbsp;a bumper car ride but without the bumps, and quicker. Perhaps they should have called it giddy-up! Or – snappier – g-up!VW e-up!PriceFrom £19,250Top speed80mphAcceleration0-62mph in 12.4 secondsRangeUp to 100 miles on a full chargeCO2emissions0g/kmEco rating9/10Cool rating8/10
The last thing I wanted to do when I left high school was to go back there. The learning part was fine, but emotionally it was exhausting – if you remember – being with 900 other 12- to 16-year-olds all hyper-social to the point of paranoia. We lived in our bubble of school and friends and felt that nothing else mattered.So when visitors from the Outside World came in to talk to us, it made quite an impression. I still remember the graphic designer, the theatre company, the illustrator, even the car designer; all of them pierced that unreal bubble of school world and gave a hint of what might be out there.A few months ago I found out that my school had been in special measures, which were finally lifted in January after nearly a year's intensive work by the teachers. My first instinct was to contact them and ask to visit as a speaker, in the hope that I might be able to show that in some modest way there is life after school. What impact does it have on the children and teachers when a school is labelled as "special measures", I asked. "We've had children telling teachers 'You're shit, Miss!'", one of the assistants sighed. How do teachers begin to keep enthusiasm and energy for teaching in that kind of environment? And how bad for a pupil to feel that they have been labelled part of a failing institution over which they have very little control.I had a familiar knot in my stomach as I went through the school gates. It was 23 years since I left, yet seemed weirdly unchanged, resonating with those memories of first boyfriend and school play, of the supply teacher standing on the table and shouting to get our attention. The journalist-turned-history teacher teasing me for eating lentils in our "hippy house", and the English room where I'd once presented my teacher with a concrete poem about a sausage, written on a sausage. (It was quite unpleasant in the English cupboard when it was discovered rotting weeks later, but I think the smell has now finally dispersed.)I carefully invited, I thought, girls and boys to my session by explaining my job in the media and giving some insights into British achievements in technology and gaming. I was mortified when 36 boys turned up and not a single girl. The association of computer science and engineering as a male occupation has been well discussed and is a shared problem everyone wants to crack, but the wider technology industry is more diverse.Gaming, in particular, is now a mainstream industry; the UK Interactive Entertainment association says that more than 33 million people in the UK play games regularly, and 55 million hours of games are played every day. That represents a significant industry of artists, designers, project managers and storytellers and nobody would label any of those skills a male or female domain, even if female developers are less common.I asked the class: how many of you have heard of Ada Lovelace, who developed the first mathematical model for a computer programme in 1842? Or Charles Babbage, who conceived the rudimentary computer, the difference engine, in 1812? Or evenTim Berners-Lee, who invented the world wide web in 1989? Two hands went up for Berners-Lee, a couple more for Rockstar, the British company that developedGrand Theft Auto. The rest of British engineering history, of which we have done such a great job burying behind our reverence for US technology, was lost.I made allowances for the age of these pupils and perhaps a little of the short-sightedness that comes with being a teenager. But at least with technology I was able to break through to something that is part of their daily life. Journalism was not so easy; not one of them said they were interested.Who pulls you back in line when you do something wrong? "It would be, like, the police and stuff." OK, so what about if the government does something wrong? Blank stares and I explained about the press and the fourth estate, digressing into Edward Snowden. The room went quiet, but I think I heard the sound of a penny dropping.I'm an amateur at teaching and couldn't make the kind of impact a skilled professional might, but I hope it might have encouraged some of them to think about how embedded technology will be in their lives by the time they make it out to work. Both my parents were teachers and I know how heavy the personal toll of bureaucracy can be, however committed they are. When one of my very best teachers died, our headmaster said that teachers are either bucket fillers or fire lighters. All of us will know that to be true, but it can only be getting harder to do in a system that seems designed to fill buckets instead.
Neil Young is a great musician. Well, I've enjoyed a few of his songs, and plenty of people have enjoyed lots more of them – enough to give him a decades-spanning career in the music business.I'm not sure, though, that this quite qualifies him to tangle with mathematicians waving Nyquist-Shannon's theorem, who are lining up to tell him hisPono music player– whichcrashed through its $800,000 Kickstarter finance-raising targetwithin a day of being announced – won't actually give people (14,600 backers pledging nearly $5m so far) the benefits they hope for.Pono is the latest in a long line of attempts to give people "high-quality" recorded audio. It will be able to play music that has been digitised in 24-bit audio sampled at 192 kilohertz (kHz), rather than the 16-bit 44.1kHz audio that CDs use. If you remember the ill-fatedDVD-audio and SACD discsof a decade ago, you'll know this song already. Barely anyone pays for such high-quality digital audio, because they can't hear the difference from the medium-quality variety.Pono's team says otherwise: "In the process of making music more convenient – easier to download, and more portable – we have sacrificed the emotional impact that only higher-quality music can deliver," wails the Kickstarter page. "You no longer have to choose between quality and convenience when listening to music – you can have both," it says.It's true that bandwidth has expanded hugely over the past 10 years; we're not working on MP3s encoded at 64 kilobits per second (kbps) so they can be squeezed down a phone line connected to a dialup modem. But during that period the ability of our ears to distinguish sound has not changed; 44.1kHz, 16-bit audio sampling is good enough to reproduce any music. In promoting higher quality recordings, people often say that some early CDs from the 1980s had horrible sound compared to vinyl. That was because sound engineers at the time overcorrected the treble balance, as they were used to engineering for vinyl, which didn't reproduce high frequencies well.CDs, and digital-to-audio converters, reproduce pretty much everything better than vinyl. To say so is to spit on the holy writ of many audiophiles, but there's science behind it.Nyquist-Shannon's theoremis a neat piece of maths that shows how quickly you have to sample an analogue signal to turn it faithfully into a digital one. Every sound is a combination of multiple frequencies at different volumes. To digitise sound, you have to capture all the frequencies. The theorem shows that, to capture a sound at frequency X, you need to take a digital sample double that frequency. Now mix in that the absolute limit of human hearing is 20kHz (and for most people more like 14kHz or less), and you realise the 44.1kHz sampling rate for CDs is fine. It will capture everything, assuming your sampler is any good.Then there's the question of 16-bit audio. Really, is 16-bit enough to capture a sufficient range of volumes in what began as a smoothly varying analogue signal? This isn't so easily settled; 16-bit gives you 65,636 possible sound levels, while 24-bit increases that to 16.7m. It's conceivable that using more bits to encode the audio (while sticking with the same sampling rate) will improve the sound – if you have wonderful hearing. But most of us don't. Studios tend to record in 24-bit because they don't want to lose any data. But that is then mixed down to 16-bit. It's possible, if you're a mad-keen audiophile, to get 24-bit audio mixes – but they aren't cheap. And it's highly unlikely that in a blind test you would hear the difference.So given that Pono is going to play music where the sampling rate and bit depth won't improve reproduction, why do people want it? Simple: those extra numbers are a specification, and if there's one thing certain groups of men (it's always men) love above all other things, it's a specification on a list. So Pono offers you a feature – for a premium – that you can't actually perceive. It's like invisible clothes or odourless perfume. Marketing people must be looking at it with envy.I do also see a real problem with Pono, though (because listening to things you can't hear won't hurt you). It's prism-shaped. So it won't fit comfortably into anything, bar a handbag. And I just can't see many audiophile Neil Young fans going for that.
The mood inside Mozilla on Friday morning is mixed. Theabrupt departure of its chief executive Brendan Eich, who was in place for just 10 days, has lifted the spirits of some inside the organisation that built Firefox – but left others unhappy that it had to go through such a public disembowelling, with board members resigning, a media frenzy, and disquiet in the ranks.Eich has removedhis Twitter account. As publicity car crashes go, it&apos;s one of the worst. But the more important question is: what will happen to Mozilla, Firefox, and its mobile platform Firefox OS?Until Thursday, Mozilla had four problems. Without Eich, it has three: its desktop browser is losing relevance in a world that is shifting to mobile; it has not yet demonstrated that Firefox OS software to power phones will make any inroads; and it is almost entirely reliant on Google, a rival browser maker, for its income.It also has a new problem: it needs a new chief executive, and its efforts to recruit from outside the organisation failed earlier this year – which is why it recruited Eich, whose past proved so inflammatory to Mozilla&apos;s own staff. The outcome will mean that the search this time will be even harder.Eich was not Mozilla&apos;s first pick for the job. The organisation had approached others – including one person with extensive experience in the mobile field.Juha Christensentold the Guardian he was approached early in 2014 to take the chief executive job at Mozilla. &quot;Their interest in me seemed to stem from the fact that I&apos;ve spent most of my career either in management or as a board member at mobile OS companies – [Nokia&apos;s] Symbian, Microsoft, Trolltech – and because I have operational experience with open source and crowdsourcing (Trolltech and Cloudmade).&quot; But Christensen did not proceed with the discussion beyond Mozilla&apos;s first approach.Eich&apos;s position as the less-favoured choice of Mozilla&apos;s board is reinforced by circumstantial details around his appointment: thepress release-style blog post announcing his elevationfrom his post as chief technology officer contains quotes only from Reid Hoffman and Eich himself; usually such announcements contain at least two board voices. Compare thepress release for the 2008 appointment of John Lillyto the same role, which has quotes from Mitchell Baker and Mitch Kapor. Eich was out on a limb from the start – and the departure of three of the six board members soon after he joined didn&apos;t help. (Mozilla has said the timing was coincidental, not an effect of his appointment.)The reason for trying to recruit Christensen is clear. Mozilla is being left behind as the world shifts to mobile, and catching up with the mobile revolution is arguably the most important thing on its agenda. With mobile traffic taking over from desktop traffic in volume and importance, and smartphone sales rocketing, the Firefox browser has been left behind.It isn&apos;t the default browser on any of the main mobile platforms. There isn&apos;t a version for the iPhone or iPad because Apple won&apos;t allow its Gecko browser framework (or any rival&apos;s) on iOS. And although the Android app has beendownloaded more than 50m times, and has half a million five-star reviews, it doesn&apos;t show up at all in the mobile browser data on either of the two main measurement systems,StatcounterandNetmarketshare, where Apple&apos;s Safari and Google&apos;s stock Android browser dominate.Mozilla is acutely aware of this and has been working on its own mobile OS, Firefox OS, for a couple of years. This, though, will be the crunch time. At Mobile World Congress itshowed off a range of devicesfrom manufacturers including ZTE, LG, Huawei and Alcatel. It says there will be a $25 phone, aimed at emerging markets. Part of the reason for the low price is that it only needs 128MB of memory – substantially less than the 512MB typically required even for low-end Android phones.But Kevin Restivo, smartphones analyst at the research company IDC, thinks that advantage won&apos;t last for long. &quot;Android&apos;s coming after them,&quot; he said. &quot;Just having a phone that runs on low memory isn&apos;t enough.&quot;Restivo said data shows that when people have phones, they want to run apps. Mozilla&apos;s line has been that Firefox OS doesn&apos;t need native apps, because it can run HTML5 apps or mobile web pages. But there&apos;s no evidence developers are writing those apps, says Restivo; instead, they focus on writing for iPhone and iPad users, and Android users. Web apps are an afterthought at best, as demonstrated by data fromFlurry published this week which showed that people spend more than 80% of their time on a smartphone using an app, rather than the web via a browser.That means Firefox OS faces a crucial test, Restivo says: &quot;In six months or a year there will be good milestones because of the plans to launch Firefox OS phones in various markets. People are going to want to see what happens - developers will want to see phones being shipped and sold through.&quot;One observer with roots in mobile, who didn&apos;t want to be named, suggests that &quot;the mobile OS area is such that Mozilla can&apos;t catch up.&quot; And that observer points to another long-term problem: &quot;their income is overly dependent on their worst enemy, Google, which is simply keeping the patient alive so they can&apos;t be blamed for anticompetitive behaviour.&quot;Google provides 90% of Mozilla&apos;s revenues, through a new deal in November 2011 (and which expires in November 2014). Before the 2011 negotiation, Google was paying an average of $11m for its positioning as the default search engine on all versions of Firefox. During the renegotiation in 2011, Microsoft made a substantial offer to replace Google with its Bing search engine; Google, though, outbid it and now pays an average of $22m per month.It&apos;s quite likely that Google will seek to outbid Microsoft again this year. &quot;It&apos;s always more valuable for Google to have that position, which it can make up through charging more for adverts, than to yield search share to Microsoft,&quot; said one person who has closely studied the search market.That should assure Mozilla&apos;s income for some years to come. But given the leadership vacuum at the top – which is likely to persist for a couple of months at least – Firefox OS could face key tests at a time when the organisation is unable to make essential decisions, and while its once-essential position on the desktop will be eroded by the dwindling share of time spent there.Eich&apos;s presence was a problem for Mozilla – but his departure doesn&apos;t solve any of the really important ones it still faces. &quot;Nobody can say [Eich&apos;s departure] is a win in any way,&quot; one Mozilla employee told me.
When my phone was snatched in a London bar last week, I used Apple&apos;s Find My iPhone feature to track it down. GPS allowed me to see my stolen phone briefly appear on Oxford Street, Regent Street… a brief pause while, presumably, the thief was on the underground… and then a North London housing estate best known for being the childhood home of Johnny Rotten. Now I knew where my stolen stuff was. Or did I?Later, in the police station, the duty PC told me wearily that despite the increasing references to iPhone tracking by victims, police are unable to act because the data is too unspecific. Police can&apos;t attend, he explained, because GPS doesn&apos;t give a flat number. It seemed both reasonable and infuriating.“I am unaware of any law that would prevent us from tracking your phone but we have no powers to enter a property unless we know that it is there,” he later told me. “The phone tracker was erratic, and that would make the phone very hard to find.”The Royal College of Policing won&apos;t comment on specific guidelines about using Find My iPhone for investigations. “Officers use many different ways of investigating crime and information retrieved from an app would be a reasonable line of inquiry to follow up. Police receive information through different channels, and whether that is in person at a station or through an app, officers have a duty to assess the information and take appropriate action to prevent or detect crime.”The feature itself was never developed for use by police, however, and can only be accessed with the username and password of the phone&apos;s owner. Find My iPhone is free, and now built in to every phone running iOS 5 software or newer and registered with iCloud. Apple is careful not to promote the feature as a way of tracking down a stolen device, but does offer a remote wipe feature if that happens.There are also several well-covered stories about Apple users who have tracked criminals down in person, including aManchester man who chased a thief onto a busand confronted him. In the US, there have also been cases of crimes solved by police themselves using the app,including the arrest of an armed robber in LA in 2011.The more enthusiastic use of Find My iPhone by US police is a cultural rather than legal approach; in 2013,NYPD even produced flyers encouraging New Yorkers to upgrade to iOS 7, which includes tighter password protection for password-protected devices. Making the phone harder to get into means the phone can&apos;t be wiped and resold as easily, and if the phone can still be tracked, it&apos;s a less attractive target to steal.Police in the UK seem more selective about how they uses telecoms data. “The police use cell site evidence a lot, but mainly to place criminals at a specific place at a specific time,” says Iain Johnstone of Tuckers Solicitors.“I can see no reason why they should not use GPS tracking to recover stolen property, but for some reason they don&apos;t seem to do so. It may be that they don’t think GPS is accurate enough to be certain of the address.”So UK police will knock on a door if they hear your stolen phone ringing on the other side, but they need to be willing and able go to that door. In the meantime, are we condemned to tracking stolen possessions without recovering them, or attempting amateur detective work?“With the introduction of iCloud, our information is now always available,” says David Prince, IT security director for law firm Schillings, “and the structures in place to defend against criminal harm do seem somewhat behind the times when it comes to the digital revolution.”We can retain data even if we lose a device, and we can erase data on stolen devices – but what about getting the device itself back? “Currently, one of the worst things you can do is assume that local law enforcement can take care of it, as this, in a lot of cases is not realistic,” advises Prince.I learned that the hard way. But at least the Johnny Rotten who snatched my phone will find that it’s blocked, erased, and now displays my contact details with the message: ‘This phone was stolen’.
Snail Yoga:'A third yoga balance for this tiny adventurous snail'. Photograph: Jenny DowningWhirling Dervish:'An Istanbul evening out starting with these dancers spinning and turning it perfect unity and balance. Not a wobble!' Photograph: Peter O'Brien/GuardianWitnessBreak Time Equilibrium:'A family of ducks decided it's break time in Esthwaite Water, Lake District, England'. Photograph: stamens/GuardianWitnessGet up, Stand up:'Balance above the Ionian Sea of Ithaca!'. Photograph: mclouka/GuardianWitnessSkys and seas in equilibrium:'Image taken in Bissurup, Denmark'. Photograph: fullenglishpint/GuardianWitnessHornbill on thorn tree:'Taken from moving car with short telephoto lens'. Photograph: DennisN10/GuardianWitnessAfter you:'Monkeys crossing a river on purpose-made high ropes between two areas of jungle in Borneo rainforest'. Photograph: David Reid/GuardianWitnessIceberg:'Perfect Equilibrium'. Photograph: ID2712813/GuardianWitnessStanley Park, Vancouver:'Balanced rocks by the sea'. Photograph: ID0648520/GuardianWitnessCyclist poised as he chats with a friend on the balcony above.Photograph: Jenny Downing/GuardianWitness
Nest, the home monitoring company bought by Google for $3.2bn, has temporarily halted sales of its £100 Protect smoke and carbon monoxide alarm after discovering that people could disable them unintentionally.The cause of the halt is a feature called Nest Wave, where people can turn the alarm off by waving their hand.&quot;We observed a unique combination of circumstances that caused us to question whether the Nest Wave (a feature that enables you to turn off your alarm with a wave of the hand) could be unintentionally activated,&quot; says Tony Fadell, the company&apos;s chief executive, in aletter on the company website. &quot;This could delay an alarm going off if there was a real fire.&quot;Fadell says that the team discovered the deactivation method themselves and that there are no reports of customers having deactivated the alarms in this way themselves &quot;but the fact that it could even potentially happen is extremely important to me&quot;.Nest Wave is switched on by default in every one of the alarms on sale at present, Fadell says.However one reviewer on Amazon UK who bought the deviceclaimsthat when an iron caught fire in his kitchen &quot;smoke was billowing out&quot; and that the standard smoke detectors in his house were set off – but that a Nest Protect less than six feet away did not trigger.&quot;There was molten metal dripping through the ironing board and into a basket of clothing so I would say I was seconds away from a major fire,&quot; he says. It is unclear whether his device had been accidentally disabled, or had another fault.Nest was founded by Fadell, who formerly worked at Apple and was a key player in the development of the iPod which revived the company&apos;s fortunes, and also sells a thermostat system.The makers of Nest, a smoke and carbon monoxide alarm, claim that unlike common smoke alarms it can distinguish between harmless smoke emissions, such as those from burning toast, and serious fires, which pose a risk to occupants. The system has app monitoring, but also connects to Nest over the internet, which can send a warning if the alarms are activated while the owner is away from their home.Fadell says that devices which are already connected to a Nest account and Wi-Fi will have the feature disabled within 24 hours. People who don&apos;t have accounts or connected devices have been told to connect them, or cease using them.Nest Protect costs roughly 10 times more than standard smoke alarms, but has hadmixed reviews on Amazon UK. (Google cache of the page.) While a number of people express pleasure in its functionality, some have complained about lack of customer service and short sensor life.Google said in January that it will acquire Nest for $3.2bn in cash,sayingthat &quot;We are excited to bring great experiences to more homes in more countries and fulfil their dreams&quot;.•Attack of the Tinder bots: &apos;malicious&apos; download links found in dating app
Elder Scrolls Online: your questions answered by creative director, Paul SageSet 1000 years before the events of Skyrim, and based around the attempts of three gigantic factions to control Tamriel, Elder Scrolls Online is Bethesda&apos;s attempt to bring its hugely successful role-playing series into the massively multiplayer space. The game has now launched on PC and Mac (with Xbox One and PS4 versions following soon), promising the same expansive experience as the single player titles, the same bustling world, the same gripping collation of narrative and side-quests – but with thousands of other inhabitants.Early reportssuggestthe feel of the world isn&apos;t quite the same – some monsters and areas effectively zoned off until participants level up sufficiently. There is also lots of discussion about Bethesda&apos;s decision to go with a subscription rather than free-to-play model. But with lots of MMO-flavoured extras, as well as re-engineered combat and crafting mechanics (not to mention over 10,000 non-player characters to meet), there seems to be plenty for interested newcomers to the genre to discover.The Elder Scrolls Online launch trailerWe won&apos;t review the game on the Guardian for a couple of weeks, just so we can experience the server set-up in its fully functioning form. However, we did manage to get some reader questions to creative director, Paul Sage, who took to his office webcam to provide a bunch of interesting answers.In short, players will be able to behave as morally or immorally as they please; there&apos;s no word yet on mounts other than horses; looking for groups to go on dungeon raids will be easy via an in-game &quot;finder&quot; system; and whatever happened to the Warden class...•Elder Scrolls Online – exclusive concept art gallery – in pictures• Elder Scrolls Online – interview with game director part two
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best new Android apps and games to have emerged on the Google Play store.This week&apos;s selection includes online courses, language-learning, candy-guzzling monsters, internet-free chatting, floppy physics fighting, and a sneaky peek at new features for Xbox One&apos;s SmartGlass app before other people.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest Android Appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for iOS apps, browse the archives ofBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups instead.APPSCoursera (Free)Coursera is one of the companies trying to shake up the world of online education: in its case, by providing more than 600 courses from universities around the world. It includes video lectures to stream or download, with clear indications on each course how long it lasts, and how much work you’ll need to do a week.Lingua.ly (Free)Continuing the educational theme, Lingua.ly trains its sights on language learning, getting you to type in words to see their translations in a variety of languages, then testing your knowledge with digital flashcards. I’ve found it a great refresher for my rusty French, but it looks as good for learning a new language.FireChat (Free)Messaging app FireChat has been causing a stir on iOS since its recent release, and it’s made the jump to Android quickly too. It’s an app for text-chatting to people around you, even when you don’t have internet access. The downside, though, is that the iOS and Android versions can’t talk to one another – a big minus.Bloomberg Businessweek+ (Free)For now, you’ll need one of Samsung’s Android devices to use the new Businessweek app, which is offering a year’s free access to people signing up. You get a digitised version of the print magazine, with extra video, audio and interactive financial data on the public companies featured in articles.Xbox One SmartGlass Beta (Free)There’s already a public version of Microsoft’s second-screen SmartGlass app for the Xbox One console, but this is different: a “public beta” that promises an “early peek” at new features coming soon. The caveat: not everything will work smoothly, this being pre-release software – but a prominent ‘Feedback’ button aims to ensure Microsoft hears about every bug quickly.Book Creator (£1.50)Book Creator has been a hit on Apple’s iPad as a way to quickly create ebooks on the device – particularly for teachers and parents. Now it’s available on Android too, with the same simple interface masking a deceptively-powerful editor. You can read books locally, or if you’re feeling ambitious, export them as ePub 3 files to sell on stores.Gig Buddy (Free)Gig Buddy is an intriguing idea for music fans in the UK: an app that aims to bring a bit more to gigging than simply buying a ticket then seeing a band. The promise here is of pre-sale tickets, exclusive videos, information about support bands and on-stage times, and a built-in music’n’merchandise store – as well as suggestions about where to eat, drink and stay around concerts.Sat-JF14 (Free)It’s fair to say you’ll only be interested in this app if you’re interested in the music of former Red Hot Chili Pepper John Frusciante. Bearing that in mind, though, this is a clever idea: he claims to have launched his new album into space on a satellite orbiting the earth. The app tracks its location and, when it’s over your region, makes Frusciante’s new album available to play in full.Smug Messenger (Free)Here’s the latest messaging app jostling for attention following Facebook’s acquisition of WhatsApp. Text-chat, photo-sharing (and doodling) and voice chat match rivals, with the address book used for contacts, WhatsApp-style. The promise of points – redeemable for bitcoin and Dogecoin among other rewards – may provide pause for thought about the app’s commercial motivations, though.Autographer (Free)Another app with a fairly limited audience: in this case, people who own the Autographer lifelogging camera. The device is worn on your clothing and shoots photos throughout the day, and now it has an Android companion app to help you browse, tag and save them from your smartphone.Sweet-snaffling monster Om Nom is back in Cut the Rope 2.GAMESCut the Rope 2 (Free + IAP)Addictive puzzle game Cut the Rope has spawned spin-offs before, but this is the full sequel. As before, it sees you snipping ropes (amid other interactions) to manipulate sweets into the mouth of cheery monster Om Nom. New characters and gameplay features mean it’s not just more of the same.Flop Fu - Physics Fighter (Free + IAP)Beat ‘em ups are one of the genres still finding their feet (and hands…) on smartphones and tablets. Flop Fu is an engaging example of a fighting game built for touchscreens though: built around rag-doll physics and comic animation, it’ll raise a smile, with a mixture of solo and multiplayer modes to hold your attention.Heroes of Atlan (Free + IAP)I’m a sucker for a traditional turn-based RPG, so Heroes of Atlan immediately appealed – although just how mainstream it is here in the West remains to be seen. You create a party of heroes, set off on quests, level up with items and team up with (or battle against) other players. Intimidating depth, but a treat if this is your bag.Flappybalt (Free)Yet another Flappy Bird clone, you might think. But this one is a port of a game by Adam ‘Atomic’ Saltsman, who previously made Canabalt. He made the original as part of the global “Flappy Jam” celebrating the original Flappy Bird’s fleeting success. “Features: Flapping. Spikes.” as the App Store listing puts it. But with the visual aesthetic of Canabalt too.Widget RPG (Free)If Heroes of Atlan is a bit too hardcore for your RPG tastes, Widget RPG is at the other end of the spectrum: a charming widget-based game that promises to “transform mindless taps on widget to actions in a fantasy world”. A keen sense of humour, neat pixel-art graphics and very moreish gameplay make it a treat.Noir Syndrome (£1.80)This week’s new genre is “procedurally generated detective murder-mystery” courtesy of Noir Syndrome, which promises a new hard-boiled case to solve every time you play. Your job is to wander around collecting clues, grilling suspects and completing challenges. Like a pixel-art Cluedo, and fun with it.Party Slots (Free + IAP)Social casino games are big business on mobile, even without real-money payouts. This one comes from publisher Gamevil: a slot-machine game that up to six people can play together over the network, collaborating to win jackpots while playing bonus games to boost their scores. It’s colourful and polished.Fairway Solitaire Blast (Free + IAP)Solitaire meets golf, as you may have worked out from the title. The combination sounds ridiculous, but actually works well as you play your way round courses using your solitaire skills alone. Well, I say “alone” – power-ups are a key part of the gameplay and yes, in-app purchases are part of that structure too.Dead End (Free + IAP)Pitched as a blend of classic racing games and 1970s horror flicks, Dead End sees you racing along an infinite track splatting zombies as you go, with car upgrades and online high-score tables aiming to prolong the rush. It’s good fun, with visuals that’ll provide a warm glow to anyone who grew up with an 8-bit computer.Chilie (Free + IAP)Another intriguing genre-mash here: Chilie is part “interactive cartoon” and part brain-training game, based on a cartoon Chinese girl named Chilie. With graphics that look hand-painted, you explore her world, watching animations then solving sums to progress through the story.BONUS CONTENT: Humble Bundle 9 (you choose)A special 21st entry this week: If you’re at all interested in Android gaming, you should jump on any new Humble Bundle. The specialises in packaging together (often-indie) games letting you choose how much to pay, and how it should be divided between developers and charities. This latest bundle includes Knights of Pen &amp; Paper +1 Edition, Kingdom Rush, Broken Sword 2: The Smoking Mirror, Bridge Constructor, Type:Rider and Ravensword: Shadowlands across Android and PC. It’s excellent value.Those are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on Android this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.
My sister-in-law would like to be able to watch her grandchild grow up. She is over 70 and has no experience of modern technology, and lives on her own a long way from us. There is no friendly IT person nearby.We know this is going to be difficult, but what would be the simplest forms of technology to buy for her to use? We were thinking of buying two smartphones, so we could help her as best we could by having the same phone. I also thought we could buy her a tablet so we could Skype and she could see photos in large format. We use a laptop and I have an old iPhone.LyndaThe first decision is the type of communications system you are going to use. If your sister-in-law doesn&apos;t use modern technology then this probably limits the choice to phones, phablets and tablets that have a built-in 3G or 4G mobile phone connection. It&apos;s unlikely that she has wi-fi, and it would be costly to subscribe just for this. However, it would be good if you could find out what&apos;s available where she lives. Which mobile network offers the strongest signal? Does a neighbour have wi-fi that she could use instead?The second decision is the size of the screen. Most smartphones have small screens that are usable for viewing photos, but not particularly good for people with aging eyes. I&apos;d suggest a 6-inch phablet (a smartphone with a larger screen), or preferably a tablet, with an 8-inch or 10-inch screen. You don&apos;t mention a budget, but you usually have to pay more for a bigger and better screen.It&apos;s very hard to explain things to people when you can&apos;t see their screen, so it would be better to control her device remotely from your end – or at least, have that as an option. You can do this with TeamViewer software, which runs on most operating systems: Microsoft Windows, Android, Linux and Apple&apos;s iOS. However, make sure that TeamViewer offers remote control support for whichever device you buy.There&apos;s a list of supported manufacturers on the TeamViewer website, but double check anyway.You will be able to use TeamViewer to push photos to your sister in law&apos;s device. Otherwise, you can set up a home screen where Skype, email, YouTube, BBC iPlayer, and perhaps WhatsApp are prominently displayed. If she reads books, Amazon&apos;s Kindle app would be a good idea. If she enjoys card or puzzle games, I&apos;d add one of those as well. The idea is to find something that will get her to use the tablet on her own. This will help her to learn the commands, keep it charged, and remove the &quot;fear factor&quot;. Many a newbie learned the basics of Windows by playing Solitaire, FreeCell or Minesweeper.Tablet choicesThere are plenty of hardware options. At the cheaper end of the scale, the 7in Asus Fonepad has 3G and is very good value for £150 onamazon.co.ukor atCarphone Warehouse. It only has 16GB of storage but you can increase that with a microSD card.I was going to write that the next step up was the 7in Samsung Galaxy Tab 3 at £250, but it&apos;s currently on Amazon for£149.99for a white 3G version, reduced from £255.54. However, it has less storage (8GB) and I&apos;d prefer the Fonepad&apos;s 1280 x 800 pixel screen to the Galaxy Tab&apos;s 1024 x 600 screen.A good alternative would be a3G 16GB Lenovo Yoga with an 8-inch screen for £199.99, or a10.1in screen for £249.99 at PC World. These have the same resolution as the Fonepad (1280 x 800) and a microSD card slot. They are also a non-standard shape, for a tablet, but include flip-out kickstands that enable them to stand upright. The 10.1in screen is a good size for viewing pictures. All of these tablets run Google&apos;s Android operating system.For a bit more money you could get a mobile-connected Apple iPad Mini with a 7.9in screen for£349 from Apple UK. Obviously, this is not the new version with a high-resolution retina display, which costs £419 or more from Apple, or the 9.7in iPad Air, which starts at £499. The iPad has by far the most and best tablet apps, and while this is not a requirement for your purposes, your sister-in-law could probably find plenty of things she&apos;d enjoy.As you are already an iPhone user, this could be the best option, if you can afford it.All three manufacturers - Asus, Samsung and Apple – are on the list for TeamViewer support, but I have not double-checked the individual models.AlternativesOf course, there are many more wi-fi tablets that don&apos;t have built-in 3G/4G phone connections, and they are cheaper. Your sister-in-law could use one of these with something like aMiFi (mobile wi-fi modem)from 3 or aTP-Linkor similar portable router or &quot;travel modem&quot;. These very small devices convert a mobile phone signal into a local Wi-Fi connection that can be used by several devices. I use a MiFi and it&apos;s terrific, but it adds a complication that may be more than your sister in law can handle.There&apos;s no real advantage to buying a phablet instead of a tablet if your sister-in-law is going to use it at home. If she wants to carry it around and use it as a mobile phone, then a 6-inch phablet might be a better option. If so, PocketLint has a good list: &apos;Best phablets 2014: The best big-screened phones to buy right now&apos;. I&apos;d quibble about it leaving out the 4G Nokia Lumia 1320 because you can get one for only£224.61 at Amazon, and yes,TeamViewer is available on Windows Phone 8.Once you have bought a phablet or tablet, you will need to install TeamViewer and test it to make sure it works. You should be able to log in to the tablet from your laptop. The most likely problem is that 3G mobile phone connections tend to be slow compared to wired broadband, and shipping screens across the network will consume a lot of data. This should be OK for occasional use, and it&apos;s one of those times when something is better than nothing. However, if you get to the point where you&apos;re using it several times a week, then it might make financial sense either to buy an unlimited sim card for the tablet or get your sister-in-law to stump up for home broadband.One more thing. If you take the 3G/4G route, you may want to disable wi-fi to extend battery life, and you must make sure that there are no apps that consume expensive data for no good reason. They may be utterly pointless, like weather apps, or just apps that check for updates several times an hour. I don&apos;t know of a good way to deal with this except to go through every app, check its permissions, and either turn it off or limit its data consumption. However, there are plenty of apps – such asMy Data Managerfor Android andData Usage for iPhone– that can help.
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps and games to have emerged on Apple&apos;s App Store.This week&apos;s selection includes monsters, calendars, scanning utilities, Family Guy photo-snaps, Mr Tickle, beautiful puzzler Monument Valley, and the quietly-launched new game from Candy Crush Saga publisher King.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for Android apps instead, browse the archives of the weeklyBest Android Appsroundups.APPSSago Mini Monsters (£1.99)Sago Sago is the preschool-focused sister studio to acclaimed children’s apps developer Toca Boca, and its latest app continues its colourful, playful run of form. Aimed at toddlers, it helps them create, colour and feed a monster, before saving snapshots of their favourites.iPhone / iPadFantastical 2 for iPad (£6.99)On iPhone, Fantastical 2 is one of the best third-party calendar apps: an alternative to Apple’s default iOS datekeeping app. Now it’s been upsized for the iPad too, with a useful mix of reminders, contextual details for your appointments, and a simple system for entering new ones.iPadScanbot (£0.69)Scanners – whether handheld or part of printer/fax combos – are still A Thing in 2014, although a number of apps are trying to kill them off. Scanbot is the latest: an impressively-slick app that scans documents using the camera at up to 200dpi resolution, then can save them to Dropbox, Evernote and other cloud services.iPhoneFamily Guy Photobomb (Free + IAP)Snoop Dogg made a killing selling virtual stickers in his Snoopify photo-sharing app last year. Now animated sitcom Family Guy is getting in on the action, with the same developer. This helps you add Peter Griffin and friends/family to your photos, then share them to social networks. A set of stickers is free, but others are sold in packs for 69p a pop.iPhone / iPadShapematic (£0.69)More scanning here, but this is a distinctly 2014 variety. Shapematic is an app for taking pictures of 3D objects, which it then tries to reconstruct virtually. The hook: they can then be ordered as 3D-printed models. It’s a bit of a novelty, but also an interesting glimpse at the potential for apps, smartphone cameras and 3D printing.iPhone / iPadPostcards by Lonely Planet (Free)One for travellers of all stripes, this, even frustrated ones who spend more time on the sofa thinking about marvellous places they could go. Lonely Planet is promising a new photo of somewhere exotic every day, with the story behind it. The snaps are taken from the Postcards section of the Lonely Planet Traveller magazine.iPadIFTTT (Free)IFTTT has become an increasingly useful tool – whether on web or smartphones – for connecting up other web services, from backing up photos to your cloud storage through to shifting bookmarks between different apps. Now it has launched a native iPad version, where it’s easy to create and browse your “recipes” on the tablet.iPadMr Tickle Storybook App (£2.49)This new children’s book-app from publisher Egmont stays faithful to the original Roger Hargreaves tale of long-armed tickly behaviour. It does have some tablet-friendly bells and whistles though: animated scenes, colouring and character decoration, and a diverting Whack-a-Worm mini-game.iPadComedy Central (Free)Only available in the US for now, this is an official app for the Comedy Central network which – bucking the trend for this kind of channel app – offers full episodes rather than just clips. Featured shows include South Park, The Daily Show and The Colbert Report, with episodes available the day after they air.iPhone / iPadGig Buddy (Free)Gig Buddy is an intriguing idea for music fans in the UK: an app that aims to bring a bit more to gigging than simply buying a ticket then seeing a band. The promise here is of pre-sale tickets, exclusive videos, information about support bands and on-stage times, and a built-in music’n’merchandise store – as well as suggestions about where to eat, drink and stay around concerts.iPhoneDoughbot (£0.69)Mmm, doughnuts… This is a very simple idea at its core: find the nearest doughnut shops “whether you&apos;re looking for old-school shops or hipster-hyped cronut purveyors”. It pulls in reviews from Yelp and photos from Instagram, with a simple, attractive user interface.iPhoneBlab – Video Walkie Talkie by Bebo (Free)Finally, can once-big social network Bebo make a comeback with… well, a “video walkie talkie” app? That’s its hope: this is about sending video messages to friends, who can then watch and reply even if they don’t have the app. It’s pretty fun, but will stand or fall on the viral effect: if your friends aren’t fussed, neither will you be.iPhoneMonument Valley's pixel-perfect graphics suit its puzzling action.GAMESMonument Valley (£2.49)The word “beautiful” is hugely overused in connection with apps: usually it means “has nice menus”. Monument Valley really is beautiful though, almost as much an artwork as it is a game. It’s a really good game, mind: inspired by the art of M.C. Escher, it’s a collection of impossible-architecture puzzles, which you twist to explore.iPhone / iPadKeyword VS (Free + IAP)Amid the flurry of interest in Candy Crush Saga maker King’s recent IPO, it took a few days for people to realise the company had quietly launched a new app. And no, it’s not a Saga. Instead, it’s essentially Boggle With Friends: you have to find words in a grid of letters, competing against Facebook friends in three-round battles. In-app purchases are used to buy coins, which in turn can be exchanged for boosters.iPhone / iPadWord Explorer (Free + IAP)Another word game here, but from a developer whose name will bring a nostalgic glow to gamers of a certain age. Jon Hare – of Sensible Soccer and Cannon Fodder fame – has created this “epic word game” based on exploring the world. Solo and multiplayer modes, along with a clever photo-collecting feature, mean it’s looking like a keeper even at this early stage.iPhone / iPadFlappybalt for iOS (Free)Yet another Flappy Bird clone, you might think. But this one is a port of a game by Adam ‘Atomic’ Saltsman, who previously made Canabalt. He made the original as part of the global “Flappy Jam” celebrating the original Flappy Bird’s fleeting success. “Features: Flapping. Spikes.” as the App Store listing puts it. But with the visual aesthetic of Canabalt too.iPhone / iPadPolar Bowler (£0.69 + IAP)There’s a long history in mobile gaming of trying to spice up ten-pin bowling. Polar Bowler does it with a garishly-dressed polar bear, icy lanes and explosions in this game from WildTangent. The game is structured into 70 levels, with good variation as you progress through.iPhone / iPadLightbringers: Saviors of Raia (Free + IAP)As genres go, “cross-platform, drop-in/drop-out, real-time multiplayer co-op, hack &apos;n slash game” is pretty specific. Thankfully, it also looks pretty fun in the case of Lightbringers, which packs the screen with enemies, syncs up with the Android and Facebook versions, and lets you play with up to three friends at once.iPhone / iPadFairway Solitaire Blast (Free + IAP)Solitaire meets golf, as you may have worked out from the title. The combination sounds ridiculous, but actually works well as you play your way round courses using your solitaire skills alone. Well, I say “alone” – power-ups are a key part of the gameplay and yes, in-app purchases are part of that structure too.iPhone / iPadParanormal Agency: The Ghosts of Wayne Mansion (Free + IAP)Publisher G5 Entertainment has found its niche in strategy and adventure games, with this a sequel to its original hidden-object game Paranormal Agency. Your job is to find objects in nearly 100 scenes, while playing mini-games and solving a suitably-spooky mystery based on a haunted mansion. The link above is for iPad, buthere’s the iPhone version.iPhone / iPadhttps://itunes.apple.com/gb/app/paranormal-agency-ghosts-wayne/id773326399?mt=8Those are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on iOS this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.
In 1991, Sega had a plan to contest Nintendo&apos;s console market dominance with a franchise of its own. It would be cooler, faster and full of attitude. When one thinks about speed and attitude, &quot;hedgehog&quot; isn&apos;t necessarily the first animal that comes to mind, but maybe that was part of the plan – take something weird and unexpected and make it cool.And it worked, for a while. The speedy, loop-the-looping Sonic the Hedgehog, who zoomed through halfpipes and cut a blue streak across any obstacle, who furrowed his brow and tapped his foot impatiently at idle players, became the hottest thing on the school playground.Fast forward to 2014, and Sonic remains an icon – but not necessarily in the way anyone might have predicted. He&apos;s a mascot for saucy romance fics, comedic fan art and basically anything other than “cool&quot;. As a gaming brand, poor Sonic hasn&apos;t been competitive in years, as the franchise made weird left turns into role-playing games, cartoons voiced by Steve Urkel, and the addition of tons of other widely-unwanted furry friends for the hedgehog hero. Effort after effort&apos;s been made to revive the classic, flashy gameplay people fell in love with in childhood – Sonic even now makes grudging regular cameos in Nintendo games – but it&apos;s never seemed to be enough.Come to think of it, revisiting the old games is actually a wildly disappointing endeavor. Here&apos;s a confronting idea: what if the Sonic franchise was never that good to begin with? As he wheels through golden loops and collects rings in our memory, the real-life classic Sonic gets stuck on invisible pixels, makes frustrated leaps endlessly upward among spinning columns that loom just out of reach. The irksome sounds of his repetitive, fruitless jumping – woop, woop, woop – join the rough hiss of his &quot;spin dash&quot; engine revving, weep-weep-weep-weep, in an impotent sound collage.Sonic gets fired like a shot into the impossible depths of violet liquids and dies, choking open-mouthed. His loyal buddy, the flying two-tailed fox Tails, bumbles off-screen regularly and gets crushed obliviously beneath pillars as the sour-faced Hedgehog struggles uphill, leaps awkwardly toward platforms that lurch away. The primary rival is a mustachioed man who looks like an egg, prancing on tiny legs. Nonsensical robotic machinery and casino lights colonise the natural landscape, jarring.Sonic memoriesToday&apos;s fans hunger after a memory of something that never really existed in the first place. Yet everyone still seems to care, urgently hanging onto the idea that there should still be some dignity for Sonic, that the radical blue guy with the bright red sneakers deserves a real game, and that every new announcement from a Sega struggling in the modern business environment might finally be Sonic&apos;s return to glory. He remains as recognizable as Super Mario or Lara Croft, yet eminently less playable.Serious fans even see reasons to celebrate where no successful return has been made apparent –this videoof a hyper-energetic kid shrieking exhortation for fans to stop picking on Sonic (“SONIC HAS BEEN REDEEMED”) might be sincere and it might be a joke, but the video has 135,000 views because no one really cares either way. Sonic is both a dead-serious topic and a joke at the same time, a curious condition for one of gaming&apos;s longest-lived icons.He is a popular subject for artists and writers involved in the anthropomorphic &quot;furry&quot; subculture, which often seescartoon creatures portrayed as sincere, smoldering and oftenkinky love objects. Here isfetish art of Sonicbeing &apos;inflated&apos; like a balloon for titillation.Here is art of Sonic pregnant. Here, Sonic appeals tofoot and sock enthusiasts.A new edition of the Sonic the Hedgehog cartoon that makes his adventures the subject of adolescent drama has helped serve material to such fantasists. Now fans can pair Sonic with his dark, mysterious rival Shadow the Hedgehog, with chipper, endlessly-admiring Tails, or with hot-headed, sullen brawler Knuckles. Knuckles is the buff, brooding one. Interestingly, none of these narratives hascreated more negative outcrythan a 2006 game in Sonic&apos;s history where the ageless hero was portrayed in akiss with a young human girl.Cynical net art often chooses Sonic as aconsciously-ironic central subject, as if in homage to the nerd tragedy of his fall from grace, or in mockery of the fans who do poorly-drawn but earnest Sonic fan art from a place of endless youth. The sassy mascot that was born to signify speed, leaps forward and rebellious attitude has now become something of an avatar of arrested development – maybe that&apos;s why he so frequently stars in furry porn, where fans seem to prefer to stick with the intriguing cartoons of their youth even as they exit childhood and develop adult tastes.Fascinatingly Sonic is nowhere near retirement – it seems there has been a Sonic cartoon of some flavor or other airing continuously since the 1990s, and still a new one is set to launch on Cartoon Network this year. The latest show will be part of a multi-pronged strategy around the newest installment in the franchise, the just-announced Sonic Boom – which looks like a careful, ca-a-re-ful attempt to entertain a modern, new young audience without alienating Sonic&apos;s somehow still-essential, finicky &quot;older fanbase&quot;.The recent reveal of Sonic Boom was met with predictable buzz and ridicule. The redesign of the games’ characters is actually fairly subtle – the designers have mostly just added a scarf and some athletic tape – but the reaction resonated so wildly thatKotaku did an articlejust to collect the quips and parodies.It’s surreal: the distinctive and particular fate of a character whose relatively grown-up image and attitude helped Sega’s Mega Drive get a leg up in the console wars of the 1990s, but image is all Sonic has these days, with fans feeling free to imprint their own definitions of “rad”, cool, sexy, grown-up and weird all over him. The new design was critiqued for making Sonic’s legs longer than they’ve ever been – it must be so that he can have one foot in our distant past and the other one who knows where.• Sonic Boom – gaming&apos;s hedgehog hero reinvented• Sonic the Hedgehog: past, present and future
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTwitter / Office: More than 12 million downloads ... &gt;&gt; Microsoft Twitter accountMicrosoft's Twitter account:More than 12 million downloads of Word, Excel, PPT &amp; OneNote for #iPad from the @AppStore &lt;3 #OfficeforiPadBrendan Eich steps down as Mozilla CEO &gt;&gt; The Mozilla BlogMitchell Baker:Mozilla prides itself on being held to a different standard and, this past week, we didn't live up to it. We know why people are hurt and angry, and they are right: it's because we haven't stayed true to ourselves.We didn't act like you'd expect Mozilla to act. We didn't move fast enough to engage with people once the controversy started. We're sorry. We must do better.Brendan Eich has chosen to step down from his role as CEO. He's made this decision for Mozilla and our community.Google shareholder votes can be worth less than zero &gt;&gt; BusinessweekWhat is the worth of a Google shareholder vote?One correct answer has always been: not much. Since the company went public in 2004, its stock has come in two flavors: Class A shares, which come with one vote apiece; and Class B shares, which come with 10. The latter are held almost entirely by Google's founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, giving them majority control of the company while owning just a fraction of it. If all the Class A shareholders voted against Page and Brin, they would still lose. So it might even be accurate to say that the value of those voting rights is tantamount to nothing.Today we are learning that the answer can even be: literally less than nothing. Or, to put it differently, an investor will apparently pay you to take the burden of a Google vote off her hands.The cause: a new C class of Google stock without a vote.iPhone iOS 7.1 bug allows thieves to disable Find My iPhone &gt;&gt; gottabemobileYouTube user Miguel Alvarado has discovered a workaround that prevents thieves from having to enter in a password in order to disable Find My iPhone. The video below demonstrates how it's done: All you need to do is hit Delete Account and the Find My iPhone disable switch at the same time. Then, as you're prompted for the Apple ID password, turn the phone off and turn it back on, and you'll be able to dip into iCloud settings and go wild.However, if you set a passcode on your phone (and SIM card - both of which you do, right?) you're as secure as the passcode. Always intrigued as to how much effort it takes to find subtle timing bugs like this. (Thanks @imaginarynumber for the link.)HTC status report: One users generate 40.6% of HTC smartphone web traffic &gt;&gt; Chitika Online Advertising NetworkAs the above graph shows, HTC One model users generate a plurality of total North American HTC smartphone Web traffic, with users of the One M8 accounting for 0.1% of the total. This is behind the adoption rate of the original HTC One in the first week following its April 2013 release, with the earlier model's usage share averaging to roughly 1% on the same scale. Despite the muted news for the week-old One M8, the combined HTC One usage share can reasonably be seen as good news for HTC in terms of transitioning its user base over to the latest generation of smartphones.Note: HTC's US presidentpoints outthat the phone doesn't fully launch for retail sales until 11 April and that "contrary to [that] report, we are very satisfied w/ initial results".Office "Touch" for Windows to outclass version for iPad &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott:During today's Build 2014 keynote, Mr. Koenigsbauer provided a very early look at PowerPoint "Touch"—what he called "a preview of a work in progress"—and it's not hard to see the differences between this and Office for iPad, even now. For example, here's the Home ribbon in both PowerPoint "Touch" (top) and PowerPoint for iPad (bottom)Two things stand out here. First, this particular ribbon has more options available in the Windows version. And second, the Windows version has three ribbons, Design, Animations, and View, which are not present in the iPad version."More options" isn't necessarily a good thing if you might be trying to hit a touch point on an 8in screen. Also, this touch version for Windows seems to be some distance off - unlikely to arrive before at least autumn, if not later. Did an iPad version really take precedence?Bitcoin trends analysis: this is the most ominous Bitcoin trend &gt;&gt; BGRTero Kuittinen:Last week, Bitcoin's value tumbled 9% in one day on news that China's central bank had ordered banks and payment companies to close trading accounts belonging to more than 10 exchanges. Since then, Bitcoin has crashed by nearly another 10%, now hovering around $480. It's a steep decline from the feverish highs above $1,100 last November.Ominously, general interest in Bitcoin is declining sharply, regardless of the recent turbulence. Google Trends shows that even though you would expect the break below the $500 level to generate a lot of curiosity, the search volume for "Bitcoin" is actuallyfar belowwhere it was in late February, when the pseudo-currency dropped below $600.Could just be dropping from the top of the hype cycle into the "trough of disillusionment". Question is whether it will become something generally useful on the other side.Intel outs 64-bit KitKat Android, 'Braswell' chip for Chromebooks &gt;&gt; CNETIntel revealed a new processor dubbed "Braswell," the QVOD media box, and a 64-bit Android kernel, among other announcements at the second day of a China conference.With China now the No. 1 PC market in the world, Intel is making a number of announcements there instead of the US. This year is no exception.Kirk Skaugen, senior vice president at Intel, disclosed that a chip code-named Braswell will be the follow-on to a version of the Bay Trail processor now found in low-cost devices like Chromebooks and sub-$500 Windows PCs.Also released an x86 version of Android KitKat 4.4. The ARM version is still 32-bit, of course.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
