Apple is replacing a limited number ofiPhone 5Ssmartphones after their owners reported that their batteries were draining far more quickly than expected.The handset went on sale on 20 September with improved battery life – up to 10 hours talk time and 250 hours on standby – one of its selling points. Some early buyers clearly got far less than they were bargaining for.&quot;We recently discovered a manufacturing issue affecting a very limited number of iPhone 5S devices that could cause the battery to take longer to charge or result in reduced battery life,&quot; Apple spokesperson Teresa Brewertold the New York Times. &quot;We are reaching out to customers with affected phones and will provide them with a replacement phone.&quot;The report suggests that the fault affects &quot;a few thousand phones&quot;, although Apple has given no exact figure. The NYT also stresses that the issue is not defective batteries, as inApple&apos;s 2006 recall of some MacBook Pro laptops.Apple is not the only smartphone maker suffering battery woes in 2013. Earlier in October, Samsung announced a trade-in programme forbatteries in its flagship Galaxy S4 Android smartphone, after users reported similar issues of battery drain.&quot;We are aware of this issue, which has affected a limited number of customers,&quot; said Samsung at the time in a statement. &quot;We ask all affected customers to please visit their nearest Samsung Electronics service centre, where they can receive a replacement battery for free of charge.&quot;The coming weeks will show just how limited Apple&apos;s iPhone 5S problem is. The handset has been selling strongly, withCounterpoint Research telling the Guardianthat it was the best-selling smartphone in the US in September, despite only being available for the last 10 days of the month.Apple sold 9m iPhone 5S and iPhone 5C smartphonesin their opening weekend, but did not break down that figure between the two handsets. Research firm Mixpanel has suggested thatthe 5S is outselling the 5C by just under 4:1globally.
Grand Theft Auto 5sold 11m copies in its first 24 hours, and became the fastest entertainment property to gross $1bn (£626m), passing that milestone in three days.Now the game&apos;s publisher, Take-Two Interactive, says it has sold 29m copies of GTA 5 in to retailers, exceeding the total &quot;sell-in&quot; figure for its predecessor Grant Theft Auto 4 less than six weeks after launching.The company revealed the figure during itslatest quarterly financial results, where it reported net revenues of $1.27bn for its fiscal Q2 2014, which ended on 30 September. Take-Two&apos;s profit for the quarter was $325.6m.As a guide to how important the GTA franchise is for the publisher, in the same quarter a year ago, it posted revenues of $288m and a net profit of $10.2m.In itsearnings call with analystsafter the results were announced, Take-Two&apos;s chairman and chief executive officer Strauss Zelnick said the decision to release GTA 5 for current-generation consoles rather than wait for the launch of PlayStation 4 and Xbox One was crucial.&quot;I think the release window for GTA V was phenomenal. There was an enormous installed base, massive anticipation and virtually no significant competitive releases,&quot; he said.&quot;I was questioned an awful lot, you may recall, about the timing of that release. And I think [developer] Rockstar made a great decision in putting it out when they did, and really optimised the intersection of what a great game can do and what an audience wanted and when they wanted it.&quot;Zelnick declined to say how many of the 29m copies sold to retailers have already been sold on to gamers, but noted that retailers have been &quot;very tight on inventory&quot; as they near the launch of the new consoles, implying that a large proportion has been sold through.&quot;It&apos;s not as though consumer say &apos;the next-gen is coming, so I have to buy this title and then I&apos;m never going to buy it again&apos;,&quot; said Zelnick. &quot;It&apos;s not how they operate. This is a reflection of our finest hopes coming true, which was the intersection of a massive installed base with a massively popular title.&quot;Take-Two also talked about its growing digital business during the call, telling analysts that its digital revenues grew 85% year on year to $105.5m, with GTA 5 and downloadable content for Borderlands 2, Civilization 5 and BioShock Infinite all playing a role.The company is also preparing for the launch of the next-generation consoles, saying that it currently has &quot;more than 10 unique titles&quot; in development, including several games that will be released in its fiscal 2015 – between April 2014 and March 2015.
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWildly popular BBM chat service to remain free &gt;&gt; CBC NewsAndrew Bocking, executive vice-president of BBM for BlackBerry:Bocking said BBM will turn a profit through a combination of marketing and advertising through some yet-to-be-launched features, such as BBM Channels.Ads coming to BBM? That didn&apos;t take long, but I guess it has to monetise it somehow, and fast.Google+ adds 18 new features for Video, Photos, Hangouts and more &gt;&gt; Pocket-lintBefore announcing the changes, Vic Gundotra, senior vice president at Google, confirmed that Google+ users upload 1.5 billion photos each week. There&apos;s also been a 20x increase in the number of videos uploaded. Speaking of users, Google said there are more than 300 million active users on Google+ right now.300m active users? Google+ is now as big as WhatsApp - whether that&apos;s good or bad is for you to decide.DON&apos;T BREW THAT CUPPA! Your kettle could be a SPAMBOT &gt;&gt; The RegisterNext question: could someone build a spambot small enough to hide in a kettle or iron? We see no reason why not: the components are small and cheap enough. One last wrinkle: could one convert Russia&apos;s 220v electricity supply to power a small electronic device without frying it, and without making an iron or kettle look rather odd? The answer is yes: all manner of tiny PCB transformers can be had to do the job.Apparently your kettle could be spying on you. How dare they steal my curry recipe!iPhone Touchscreen Accuracy – A lesson in understanding test requirements and goals &gt;&gt; Neglected PotentialNick Arnott on testing touchscreen accuracy:Looking at the displacement of taps as you move away from the green area, there’s a definite pattern. The more you move away from the easily-tappable area, the greater the “inaccuracy” of the tap. But the inaccuracy skews in a way that would make the target slightly closer to starting position of your thumb (which is likely the most frequently used digit for tapping). As your thumb stretches out from your hand, likely positioned near the bottom of the phone, the portion of your thumb that actually comes into contact with the screen when you tap changes. Your perception of the screen also changes slightly, as when you move higher on the screen, it’s less likely that you’re viewing the screen at exactly a 90 degree angle. These are factors that this automated test does not account for. The robot doing the test is viewing its tap target at a perpendicular angle to the screen. It is also tapping at a perpendicular angle every time. This isn’t generally how people interact with their phones.Not all touchscreens respond linearly across their entire surface, and potentially for good reason.Sticky GPS-tracking &apos;bullets&apos; can help cops catch high-speed perps &gt;&gt; DVICESimilar to a T-shirt cannon used in a sports stadium, Starchase is a compressed-air gun mounted to the front of a patrol car that contains sticky GPS &quot;bullets.&quot; The bullets can adhere to the surface of the car in front of the cannon once launched. With the press of a button, the cannon grill flips open, and the Starchase GPS projectile hurls towards the car, all the while beaming back real-time GPS coordinates to a computer or phone long after the criminal speeds away.Better make sure the your aim is spot on before pulling the trigger.Sky&apos;s Now TV takes the fight to Netflix with PAYG Sky Atlantic &gt;&gt; TechRadarStill, the prospect of being able to pay a much reduced fee to get access to shows like Boardwalk Empire, American Horror Story or, going forward, Game of Thrones without needed a Sky dish or any of the other channels you don&apos;t want may well be attractive.Not quite a la carte, yet, but a good start for IPTV&apos;s expansion.Virgin Media SmartCall now available: Make calls on your mobile using landline minutes &gt;&gt; Pocket-lintAlso, it won&apos;t use 3G or 4G data either at home or when roaming, so you won&apos;t go over your limit or incur further charges. And unlike BT&apos;s rival SmartTalk service, the app won&apos;t allow you to make calls outside of your landline package, so you won&apos;t incur charges that way either.A smart app that automatically avoids extra fees from a network provider? Now there&apos;s a novel idea.You can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
The Coalition appears to be shutting the door on the Chinese telco giant Huawei taking part in the multimillion-dollar national broadband network build, despite a substantial effort by the company over several years to woo key decision makers in the new Abbott government.The treasurer, Joe Hockey, has issued a blunt "no" to a question posed on Sky News about whether Huawei could be an investor in the NBN.The attorney general, George Brandis, says the Coalition has not made any decision to change Labor's policy, which was to decline Huawei's participation in the NBN rollout on advice from Australia's national security agencies."The decision of the previous government not to permit Huawei to tender for the NBN was made on advice from the national security agencies," Brandis said in a statement. "That decision was supported by the then opposition after we received our own briefings from those agencies."Since the election the new government has had further briefings from the national security agencies. No decision has been made by the new government to change the existing policy."Brandis declined to comment further: "As a matter of long-established practice the government does not comment on advice from the national security agencies."Huawei thought itself in with a shot of taking part in the NBN after public comments by the communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, signalling the Coalition would review Labor's ban.Turnbull said less than a week ago Huawei was a very "credible business".When Labor announced the ban on Huawei's participation in the NBN, Brandis backed the then government's decision, but the then opposition finance spokesman, Andrew Robb, spoke up for Huawei.Only last week during a visit to China, Robb, now minister for trade and investment, also gave strong support to reviewing the Huawei ban. "They are a well-respected company within Australia and they have already made a big contribution to [the telco] sector," Robb said.Huawei has argued previously that a lockout on infrastructure investments in Australia could breach international trade obligations.Robb is in the US and a spokeswoman declined to comment further on Wednesday.Over the past several years, Huawei has built relationships with the foreign affairs minister, Julie Bishop, with Robb, with Turnbull as the opposition communications spokesman, and with the probable next speaker of the house of representatives, Bronwyn Bishop. Huawei has sponsored travel and hospitality for these and other federal MPs.The Australian Financial Review hasreported commentsfrom Peng Gang, China's top commercial diplomat in Australia, saying Huawei's participation in the NBN is "a very important step to co-operation down the track" because the prospects for increased trade and investment between the two countries was large.China has lobbied strongly in favour of Huawei's participation in the NBN through political and diplomatic channels. Senior Chinese officials, and Huawei, have rejected concerns that have been raised in other jurisdictions, particularly the US, about spying, and cybersecurity.The US House of Representatives select committee on intelligence has held an inquiry into Chinese economic espionage, and there has been a state department investigation into whether the company breached US sanctions on Iran.Huawei has consistently and emphatically denied any wrongdoing.
The mothers of Gary McKinnon and Richard O'Dwyer, who faced down US attempts to extradite their sons over hacking and copyright charges, have accused US authorities of targeting "young British geeks" after a vicar's son was charged with breaching US military networks from his home in rural Suffolk.Lauri Love, 28, is facing 10 years in a US jail after being described by prosecutors as a "sophisticated and prolific computer hacker" who allegedly broke into US army and Nasa networks in an attempt to steal confidential data.The charges against Love have drawn comparison with McKinnon, whowon his decade-long battle against extradition last yearafter being accused of hacking US government agencies. McKinnon's mother, Janis Sharp, on Tuesday accused US authorities of targeting "young British geeks" and urged Love's family to fight any extradition attempts from Washington."They are just young geeks sitting in their bedrooms; they're not murderers, they're not terrorists, they're not selling secrets, they're just searching for information," said Sharp. "Being taken away from your country is a sentence and it is not [in line with the principle of] innocent until proven guilty. Extradition was meant for terrorists, not some young British geek in his bedroom in Suffolk."US authorities have declined to confirm or deny that they would seek to extradite Love, whom they accuse of hacking several US military networks in a criminal indictment filed in a New Jersey court.Julia O'Dwyer, whose son Richardwon a two-year battle against extradition over copyright charges last year, said: "It's the same old story. America have the most aggressive prosecutors in and world and because the UK is happy to hand people over they keep doing it. America would never hand people over like that. The UK has never requested extradition for an alleged crime when committed on American soil because they'd tell us to clear off."The family of Love, from Stradishall in Suffolk, was said to be "shell-shocked" and "overwhelmed" at the allegations. His father, Alexander, a vicar at HMP Highpoint North, said he had been told not to comment when contacted by the Guardian on Tuesday.Love was arrested under the Computer Misuse Act by the UK's National Crime Agency on Friday after an international investigation led by US authorities.Karen Todner, the solicitor who represented McKinnon, said the details of Love's arrest were "very unclear" and questioned why he would be arrested and interviewed under UK law if he was to be tried in a US court. "We need to make sure that if he is being prosecuted under UK law, then he isn't also facing extradition to the US," she said.An extradition request would strain relations with Washington at a time of heightened tensions over classified information following the National Security Agency disclosures by Edward Snowden.Dominic Raab, the Tory MP who has led a campaign for stronger checks against extradition, said that Love could be extradited without proper judicial oversight if US authorities claim that their evidence could compromise national security or damage international relations."Under a shabby new law rushed through parliament, without any proper scrutiny, British suspects can now face automatic extradition based on secret US evidence the FBI refuse to share with the UK to allow a trial here," he said. "If that law had been in place when Gary McKinnon and Richard O'Dwyer faced US extradition demands, their feet would not have touched the ground. Whatever the merits of Love's case, the obvious controversy will centre around why he can't be prosecuted here."Love is alleged to have used the online monikers "peace", "nsh" and "route" to plot the attacks, which were carried out after spotting vulnerabilities in US military websites. He is accused of stealing the personal details of more than 5,000 servicemen and servicewomen, including Nasa workers, with online assaults between October 2012 and this month.Melanie Riley, co-ordinator of the action group Friends Extradited, said any prosecution of Love should take place on UK soil. She added: "Yet again, vulnerabilities in US IT systems seem to have been exposed by youths with a keyboard. Have they learned nothing from McKinnon case? There's something troubling about the might of the DoJ bearing down on a young man from Suffolk whilst the NSA busies itself with similar activity."
At 10.30pm on 29 October 1969, Charley Kline managed to send two letters &apos;lo&apos; to programmer Bill Duvall, before the system crashed. But an hour later he succeeded in sending the simple yet monumental command: &apos;login&apos;.Forty-four years later it&apos;s estimated that around 2bn people use the internet with over 144bn emails and 500m 140 character messages tweeted every day.What was your first email, tweet, status update or online chat? Add yours to the list below by commenting in the threadLosing my Twitter virginity&mdash; Jonathan Haynes (@JonathanHaynes)December 7, 2008now i&#39;m eating custard with a fork&mdash; mark rice-oxley (@markriceoxley69)July 15, 2009The importance of not posting all of your personal details online still hadn&apos;t been fully understood in this first Facebook status update:&nbsp;harri18 shares the first email recieved to her work email account in 2003:&nbsp;Or did you share Guardian columnist Hadley&apos;s fears?@Claire_Phippsthank you! I&#39;ll need &#39;em. I&#39;ll clearly be putting the twit in Twitter&mdash; Hadley Freeman (@HadleyFreeman)July 11, 2011Do you remember your first internet message? Share yours in the thread
Back in 2005, when BlackBerry brought instant messaging to the mobile phone, the company was just entering its boom times. While the iPhone was still a gleam in Steve Jobs' eye, BlackBerry's innovations ensured its smartphone joined maple syrup on the list of Canada's biggest exports.Six years later, in the summer of 2011, as violence engulfed London and spread to Birmingham, Nottingham, Liverpool and Manchester, so effective was BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) at mobilising the rioters that politicians called for the service to be temporarily shut down.But two years later, it is the users themselves who are pulling the plug.As demand for BlackBerry handsets fades, the once noisy BBM grapevine is falling silent. Dozens of alternatives have sprung up to take its place, from Facebook and Apple's own-brand instant messaging applications to independent startups such as WhatsApp and Kik (which also hails from Canada).Free to download and use (although WhatsApp costs $1 a year after the first year), they use the internet to swap text messages, pictures, voice clips, "stickers", and even videos in WhatsApp's case, between most types of phones.In an attempt to retain its following, BBM was last week released on Android and Apple phones. Despite the competition, the response has been overwhelming, with an announcement  that there have been more than 20m downloads. But despite the initial interest, many believe BBM's wider release will do little to save the service."The move to bring BlackBerry to the iPhone is four or five years too late," says James Gooderson, an 18-year-old classical civilisation  student at Nottingham University who blogs on technology. "WhatsApp has captured the reason why young people would use a BlackBerry."BBM claims 80 million monthly users after its upgrade, but WhatsApp has 300 million. Other services expose BBM's limitations: unlike Skype and Viber, it does not yet offer video or voice calls. Unlike Path, it does not do location sharing. There is no video sharing, as on iMessage. And the stickers (a more sophisticated version of the smiley face) adored by kids the world over are also unforgivably absent. Even the contacts and calendar sharing that BBM made possible on BlackBerry handsets have not migrated to the Apple and Android versions.Messaging is moving from verbal to visual. Photos uploaded to Instagram trigger a wave of comments and Snapchat's pictures, which self-delete after 10 seconds, have opened a world of other possibilities. Like BBM, all of these services are free for any phone with an internet connection.Yet only three years ago, BBM was so powerful it was credited with starting a revolution in Egypt; and at the time of the London riots, it was a more urgent source of news than the television screen."We could see on our BlackBerry messages where the rioters were going next; TV news would catch up four hours later," said Jean-Pierre Moore, 28, . He  manages the karting track at Oasis youth club in Stockwell, south London, an  area with some of the highest levels of crime and economic deprivation in Britain.Moore mainly communicates on an iPad now. He dismisses the notion that the BBM curfew urged by some MPs would have stopped the looting."The social networking wasn't the reason," he says. "I know a lot of people who were out rioting. People had been angry for a long time. Mention the words stop and search around here, and you immediately have a room full of angry young men."Yet for the young people around the karting track, no single alternative with the same viral power, the ability to connect a generation on one platform, has replaced BBM. "There's too many things now. I'm on WhatsApp, iMessage, Instagram, Kik. Every year a new one comes out," says Moore.Nearly 80% of young smartphone owners regularly use a social networking application, says the research firm Enders Analysis, but two-thirds use more than one. Among 16- to 24-year-olds, 60% use Facebook everyday, but 46% use alternatives."It's a much more complex, multi-faceted environment," says Benedict Evans, a digital media specialist at Enders. "The smartphone itself has become the platform. All of these apps plug into your phone book and your photo library. Apps rise and fall like fireworks. Some, like Instagram, last, others disappear into thin air."Bennett, a 13-year-old at Oasis, is typical of this dispersed smartphone culture. He has three devices, all hand-me-downs from family members. He keeps his BlackBerry for messaging, uses an iPhone over Wi-Fi to play games and makes phone calls on an HTC-branded Android phone. His friends are still on BBM – the four phone robberies at his school so far this term were all BlackBerrys. At the touch of a few buttons, a single BlackBerry message can be sent to the phone owner's entire contacts book – several hundred people in some cases; on WhatsApp, the limit for a broadcast message is 50.But for Bennett, Instagram is now a major social network. "Instagram is Facebook without parents," he says. "Facebook has been taken over by the older generation. Once I saw my mum on Facebook, I deleted my account."For families that may struggle to pay their heating bills this winter, the low price tag attached to buying and communicating on a BlackBerry retains its appeal. Unlimited BBM messages are available to anyone with a secondhand device and a £7-a-month deal from T-Mobile.But trust in the privacy of BBM's system has been eroded. Part of the attraction to business people, revolutionaries, demonstrators and rioters was a belief that encrypted words sent over the company's secure servers could not be traced back to their writers. Prosecutions after the riots put an end to  that belief.In the aftermath, BlackBerry worked closely with police to help identify those who had used BBM to incite violence. In Nottingham, a young man called Sam Lowe was last year jailed for a message, later deleted, which he sent to his 160 contacts.It read: "Girls, grannies, mums, dads, lads, grandads – everyone meet on Sneinton Dale tonight at 9 o'clock as we are all going to kick off …" Lowe  a 39-month prison sentence.Across town from Stockwell, outside the gates of a private school in well-heeled South Kensington, the older pupils all have Apple logos on their handsets. They all use WhatsApp. For many, BBM is a distant memory. "I still have a Blackberry, but I'm the only one," says a teenager standing with a circle of friends. And how does that make him feel?"Isolated," he replies.The contendersWhatsapp: 300 million active usersThe most popular cross-platform phone messaging app, WhatsApp is the go-to text message replacement.Line: 270 million usersJapan's answer to WhatsAppnow has 80% of its users outside Japan, challenging for the text-message replacement crown.Instagram: 150 million monthly active users, 55m photos per dayPacked with filters, this photosharing app allows you to blast your best images out into the ether.Snapchat: 350m photos shared per dayA playful, picture messaging app, Snapchat allows you to send drawings your five-year-old would be proud of.Kik Messenger: 80 million registered usersKik messenger is another, smaller cross-platform text-messaging replacement that once challenged WhatsApp.Viber: 200m downloads in MayViber is a free phone-calling app that lets you send messages and make calls over the internet to other Viber users, just like Skype.BBM: 60 million monthly active usersThe original phone-to-phone messenger, recently unshackled from its BlackBerry phone exclusivity to go land on Android and iPhone.WeChat: (with Chinese sister app Weixin) 240 million active usersWeChat is China's equivalent to Line and WhatsApp.Facebook Messenger: 819 million mobile monthly active usersStarting as an instant messenger isolated on the social network, Facebook Messenger now has dedicated cross-platform apps on mobile too.iMessage: 140 million users (at latest count, in June 2012)Built into iOS,iMessageallows iPhone users to seamlessly swap between text and iMessages within the same application.
More than 20m people have downloaded and used BlackBerry&apos;s BBM messaging app on iPhone and Android smartphones in the week since it launched.BlackBerry announced the milestone today, revealing that after 10m downloads in its first 24 hours, the newly cross-platform app picked up another 10m in the following six days.The company says that BBM now has 80m monthly active users, with 60m on BlackBerry smartphones and 20m across iPhone and Android.That&apos;s jumping the gun somewhat: while anyone who tries BBM in its first month on the new devices technically counts as a monthly active user, the real test will be if they stick around for longer. BlackBerry appears well aware of that.&quot;It is great to see so many people downloading BBM, but the true measurement for us is engagement – the connections being made and the conversations in which our BBM community engages,&quot; said BlackBerry&apos;s executive vice president of BBM, Andrew Bocking.&quot;The power of BBM has always been the active, real conversations and interaction that our customers enjoy. From here on out, we will focus on active users of BBM and will no longer focus on simple download numbers.&quot;BBM&apos;s iPhone and Android versionsinitially used a virtual queuing systemto restrict access to people who hadn&apos;t pre-registered their interest. BlackBerry has now removed this bar though, after a smooth launch week.That&apos;s a far cry from the intended launch in September, whenBlackBerry was forced to abandon its plansafter a rogue version of BBM for Android leaked, causing problems for the service&apos;s ability to cope with increased traffic loads.BBM has some way to go to catch up with WhatsApp, the current king of the messaging apps world. Earlier this month, WhatsApp said that itnow has 350m monthly active usersacross all smartphones.
Microsoft has hired television presenter and veteran gamer Jonathan Ross as an executive producer to work on Xbox games.Although the exact details are unclear, Ross will advise on a number of titles currently being developed by the company's UK studios, including Kinect Sports developer Rare and Lionhead, responsible for the hit Fable series. It seems he will also work with Microsoft's new London based studio Lift which is working on a range of free-to-play titles. Ross's expertise is also expected to be brought into play on a series of unannounced "cross-platform" projects which could span games, TV and music.At Microsoft's Monday night event,European Xbox chief Phil Harrison explained: "We wanted to bring in new talent that would challenge the way we build games and the way we think about what an audience is and what is entertainment. We want to broaden the concept of gaming to maybe blur the distinctions about what is a traditional game and what is a traditional television programme and what is traditional linear media."Talking to industry news site CVG, Ross added: "I'm thrilled to be joining forces with Microsoft Studios. The explosion in cross-platform opportunities and the chance to create and develop entertainment ideas that make the most of both the traditional and the very latest platforms is tremendously exciting."A keen gamer for many years, Ross already has links with the industry. He has a development studio, Hotsauce Interactive, which has released a smartphone game, Catch Catch Aliens, and has other titles in development. The head of the studio, Georg Backer, will also be taking on an executive production role alongside Ross.The announcement comes ahead of the launch of the Xbox One console, which hits shelves worldwide on 22 November. Microsoft has been keen to stress the machine's all-round entertainment capabilities, with a range of video-on-demand and "transmedia" offerings, accompanying major game announcements. Lee Schuneman, head of Lift London explained: "Our ambition is to create these new experiences that join TV and gaming together."
The meteoric rise inbitcoinhas meant that within the space of four years, one Norwegian man’s $27 investment turned into a forgotten $886,000 windfall.Kristoffer Koch invested 150 kroner ($26.60) in 5,000 bitcoins in 2009, after discovering them during the course of writing a thesis on encryption. He promptly forgot about them until widespread media coverage of the anonymous, decentralised,peer-to-peer digital currencyin April 2013 jogged his memory.Bitcoins are stored in encrypted wallets secured with a private key, something Koch had forgotten. After eventually working out what the password could be, Koch got a pleasant surprise:&quot;It said I had 5,000 bitcoins in there. Measuring that in today&apos;s rates it&apos;s about NOK5m ($886,000),&quot; Kochtold NRK.Silk Road fluctuationsIn April 2013, the value of bitcoin peaked at $266 before crashing to a low of $50 soon after. Since then, bitcoin has seen large fluctuations in its value, most recently following theseizure of online drugs marketplace Silk Road,plummetingbefore jumping $30 in one day toa high of $197 in October.Koch exchanged one fifth of his 5,000 bitcoins, generating enough kroner to buy an apartment in Toyen, one of the Norwegian capital’s wealthier areas.Two ways to acquire bitcoinsCustomers line-up to use the world's first ever permanent bitcoin ATM at a coffee shop in Vancouver, British Columbia. Photograph: Andy Clark/ReutersTypically bitcoins are bought using traditional currency from a bitcoin &quot;exchanger&quot;, although due to strict anti-money laundering controls, the process can can be tricky. A user can then withdraw those bitcoins by sending them back to an exchanger likeMt Gox, the best known bitcoin exchange, in return for cash.However, bitcoin is gaining more and more traction within the physical world too. It is now possible to actually spend bitcoins without exchanging them for traditional currency firstin a few British pubs, including the Pembury Tavern in Hackney, London, for instance. On 29 October, theworld&apos;s first bitcoin ATMalso went online in Vancouver, Canada, which scans a user&apos;s palm before letting them buy or sell bitcoins for cash.A small group of hardcore users also generate extra bitcoins by &quot;mining&quot; for them – a process that requires computers to perform the calculations needed to make the digital currency work, in exchange for a share of the built-in inflation.Mining is a time-consuming and expensive endeavour due to the way the currency is designed. Each subsequent bitcoin mined is more complex than the previous one, requiring more computational time and therefore investment through the electricity and computer hardware required.• In August, Germanyrecognised bitcoin as a &quot;unit of account&quot;, allowing the country to tax users or creators of the digital currency
US firm Play-i hasraised more than $100,000in the first day of a crowdfunding campaign for a pair of robots that will teach children computer programming skills.The company is hoping to raise more than $250,000 through its own website from people pre-ordering Bo and/or Yana, spherical bots that can detect one another, play music and tell stories – all controlled by kids coding within their companion iOS or Android app.Play-i is working with the Scratch and Blockly programming languages, adding its own libraries and tutorials to make them more accessible for children, while hosting an online resource of code created by the robots&apos; young owners.Yana costs $49 and Bo $149, although a $499 &quot;Developer&apos;s Pack&quot; is also being offered to 100 developers, who&apos;ll get early access to the robots and to Play-i&apos;s API, in order to create apps that work with them.The company expects to start shipping the robots in summer 2014. Its four co-founders include former Amazon and Google executive Vikas Gupta; former Frog Design engineering boss Mikal Greaves; and the former head of Apple&apos;s iPod software team Saurabh Gupta.Play-i is far from the only company aiming to help children learn to code. Apps includingHopscotch,Kodable,Light-bot, andHakitzuare finding an audience through the app stores, while theBee-Bot programmable floor robotalso has a companion app.Meanwhile, the Raspberry Pi computer has a strong focus on children, withmore than 1.75m units sold so far. A project calledFUZEhas wrapped the Raspberry Pi in a case with a keyboard and &quot;Project Cards&quot; to teach programming, with the aim of appealing to schools.In the UK, there is alsoCode Club, a network of after-school programming clubs for nine- to 11-year-olds, as well as initiatives such asFire Tech CampandYoung Rewired Stateto encourage children to learn and practise their coding skills.
During Apple’s fourth quarterearnings callchief executive Tim Cook expressed concern about the iPad mini and reiterated that Apple was still exploring &apos;new categories&apos;.Along with a breakdown of the company’s revenue, profits and sales, we learned a few things about Apple, its movements in the market and where it is likely heading to next.Here are five of the most interesting titbits.There may not be enough iPad minis with retina displays to go aroundHaving just announced two brand new iPads, theslimline 9.7in iPad Airand the high-resolution 7.9iniPad mini with retina display, Apple doesn’t seem confident that supply of the new iPad mini will keep up with demand.During the earnings call Cook said that &quot;it&apos;s not clear if we&apos;ll have enough&quot; stock of the new iPad mini to meet demand for launch on 1 November: &quot;it&apos;s not clear that everyone who wants one will be able to find one&quot;. That means supplies of the new iPad mini will likely be limited in the run up to “an iPad Christmas”.Apple’s still looking at ‘new product categories’Apple has long been anticipated to be working on a smart watch to challenge the Pebble, Sony’s Smartwatch 2 and Samsung’s Galaxy Gear.Sticking to his April statement, Cook reiterated that Apple sees &quot;significant opportunities ahead of us in both current product categories and new ones.&quot;Cook continued: &quot;In terms of new product categories, if you look at the skills Apple has in hardware, software and services and an incredible app ecosystem, these set of things are very unique. We obviously believe that we can use our skills in building other great products that are in categories that represent areas we do not participate in today. We&apos;re confident in that.&quot;While that doesn’t specifically call out any particular new products, Cook has said in the past that “the wrist is interesting”, while analysts and industry experts have long speculated anApple iWatchto be the next big Apple product category shift. It is also possible that Apple’s famous “hobby”, the Apple TV set top box will see an upgrade tosomething more than a simple smart TV extender, as has long been suggested by analysts.iPhones growing fast, but Samsung growing fasterDuring the earnings call, Cook explained that Apple’s iPhone sales are up 25.7% year-on-year to 33.8m units sold globally. However, research firm Strategy Analytics claimed this morning that global smartphone shipments grew 45% annually, and that Samsung’s product line was up 55% in sales.Cook stuck to Apple&apos;s now-traditional response to market-share questions: &quot;it&apos;s about usage and love, not shipments” while maintaining that that customer loyalty and device usage is the most important part of Apple’s revenue stream going forward.&quot;We are not solely focused on unit share, as I’ve said many times, but we’re focused on usage in customer’s side, the loyalty and other things that are very important to us.&quot;Apple&apos;s chief financial officer Peter Oppenheimer pointed to another regular source for Apple: ChangeWave&apos;s customer satisfaction rate surveys, with the most recent one giving iPhone a 96% score. Oppenheimer also poked at Apple&apos;s main rivals.&quot;Kantar measured a 92% customer loyalty rate, significantly higher than the competition. And we believe that a great customer experience translates to much higher usage. In fact, Experian reported that iPhone users spend an average of 53% more time each day on their phone than Android phone users,&quot; he said.Apple generated $4.3bn in iTunes revenue in the last quarter, mainly driven by the sales of apps, something itself driven by user engagement with the company’s phones and tablets.The iPhone 5c isn&apos;t Apple&apos;s entry-level iPhone. It&apos;s the older iPhone 4SResponding to criticism that Apple’s “entry-level” iPhone 5c experiment had failed to secure the lower end of the market, Cook explained that the iPhone 5c was never meant as a cut-price iPhone:&quot;If you look at what we’ve done with our iPhone line, we’re selling the iPhone 4s as our entry offer.”Cook continued by clarifying that the iPhone 5c was aimed as a mid-range device in Apple’s smartphone portfolio, despite what analysts had been saying:“We’re selling the iPhone 5c as sort of a mid-tier offer. I realise that some people were reading rumours that the entry phone would be the 5c, but that was never our intent, obviously.”Using the iPhone 4 as a testbed, Cook described Apple’s experimentation with lower price points in different regions, saying that “we were selling the iPhone 4 in very good volumes” and that “we’re hoping and thinking that, that will continue with the 4s.&quot;Apple bought 15 companies, but we only know who eight of them areApple is well known for sitting on a large stockpile of $146.8bn in cash, which likely came in handy for the 15 “strategic” company acquisitions Apple made in its fiscal 2013 - “an average of one acquisition every three to four weeks,&quot; Cook said.While Apple is known to buy up smaller companies to acquire skills and technologies, it generally doesn’t announce or comment on purchases. However, as technology blogTechCrunch points out, we already know about eight of Apple’s acquisitions this year, leaving seven unaccounted for.Within the last year, Apple bought several location services technology companies including WiFiSlam, Locationary, Hopstop and Embark, collectively covering indoor location and public transport.Apple also acquired Cue, likely as a boost to Siri’s functionality; Matcha, perhaps to enhance Apple’s “Genius” smart recommendation technology for iTunes; Passif Semiconductor, which manufactured low-energy processor components, and AlgoTrim, a company that specialised in data compression.• In October, Apple&apos;s profits and shares fell amidfears over the company&apos;s iPhone 5C sales, despite a record 33.8m iPhones sold in the last quarter
Google is expanding its Glass Explorer programme to enable more people to get their hands on its Google Glass augmented eyewear, but the scheme remains US-only for now.The company is emailing its first crop of &quot;Explorers&quot; who&apos;ve been using Glass since earlier this year, giving them 14 days to invite three friends to buy the device.&quot;They’ll be able to buy Glass online and can have it shipped to their home, office, treehouse or igloo,&quot;explains Google Glass&apos;s official Google+ page. &quot;We’re counting on you to get Glass to the people you think will make great Explorers. More Explorers means more feedback, and more feedback means better Glass.&quot;Igloo-dwellers shouldn&apos;t get too excited:Engadget has published the emailbeing sent out to Explorers, and it specifies that all new buyers must be a US resident with a local shipping address or the ability to pick up their Glass from Google offices in New York, San Francisco or Los Angeles.Google is also promising the first batch of Explorers that they&apos;ll be able to &quot;swap out&quot; their Glass for a new and improved model later in 2013. &quot;This hardware update will allow your Glass to work with future lines of shades and prescription frames, and we’ll also include a mono earbud,&quot; explained Google.The hardware upgrade will apply to anyone who bought Glass before 28 October, with customers due to be emailed with details in November.Google hopes expanding the Glass Explorer programme will bring it more feedback to continue refining the product ahead of its commercial release in 2014, but will its chosen method bring more diversity to the scheme?Past criticism that Glass&apos;s early adopters are heavy on white, male technology executives may not be countered by getting that same group to pick the next wave of users.
Topless, his tattoos crackling in the mutinous sun, Edward Kenway crouches in the bow of a paddle boat and glares at the waves. We're a long way from Moby Dick here – the middle of the Caribbean, for one thing; scores of nautical miles from an allegory, for another – but Assassin's Creed IV recreates the stiff fight/flight thrill of hunting a white whale like never before in a video game. A shadow grows beneath the water's surface. Kenway hurls a harpoon. The rope twangs taut, the vessel bites frothily into the water and rips after the fleeing monster. Ten minutes later, the sea a wash of crimson foam, the whale is grimly hoisted into your ship, its ripe blubber ready to fashion into a new tool or to sell back at port for a princely sum.The last thing that Assassin's Creed needed was another gimmick. Released in greedily annual instalments, Ubisoft's time-travel-cum-parkour series has become bloated in recent times with all its extracurricular activities. Last year's third entry sagged with the weight of the trinkets ready to retrieve from the scalps of tall buildings and bellies of dusty vaults. The crafting, the trapping, the recruitment of supporters to your cause: all manner of things to do in and around the thick smoke of the American revolution. Black Flag – a good name that spills its setting while sounding like a two-syllable door slam – is similarly laden, but where the third game felt unfocused and unbridled, here, on the high seas, every action has an appropriate reaction, and all tasks pull in the same direction.Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag: having a whale of a timeTake the sea shanties, for example. Represented by an amber glowing musical note, hanging mid-air in the branch of some tree, you chase the icon over bough and tile as it streaks off through the sweltering cities of Nassau or Kingston. Once caught, your crew back on the ship adds another 18th century shanty to its repertoire, a song with which to soundtrack your ceaseless voyages across the sea, which are otherwise silent. Or the bottles stuffed with scrawled messages, washed up on some remote shore which, when uncorked and read, fill out the world with backstory. Or the treasure maps, lifted from bronzed cadavers, X-marking-the-spot where you can dig for money or resources with which to upgrade your vessel. Or the patrolling ships that, using your ever-strengthening armoury of cannon and mortar, can be snapped then, while aflame and close to drowning, boarded. Their crew can be claimed as your own, the vessel used either to repair the damage to your own ship or to swell the ranks of your own privateer fleet: all systems that entwine with theme to form a true backbone that has, until now, been crooked.Black Flag is, like the previous titles in the series, a simulation within a simulation. In the present day game world you play as a new hire for Abstergo Entertainment, an Ubisoft-esque company with towering glass offices that releases genetic memories as consumer video games. Your character dives into the 1700s to experience the pirate assassin Kenway's memories to evaluate their suitability for public release, an excursion which provides the narrative and the context for the bulk of the game. But unlike previous titles, the present day story sections are kept to a minimum, rarely interrupting the vast swathe of activity on offer in the past setting.Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag: volley of deathWhile it will take a dozen or so hours before you realise it – during which the game's designers teach multitudinous interactions, from how to air-assassinate an unsuspecting guard, to use a blowpipe to send a guard into a temporary slumber, to negotiate a freak 20-foot wave in a squall – Black Flag's sea is divided into 11 segments. Each of these is patrolled by British or Spanish ships, which can be attacked and plundered, but if you want to take control of a segment, you must brave an assault on its military base, the coastal seat of power which, once breached and toppled, will give you free run of the surrounding waters. This tactical game of dominion elegantly plays out over the storyline, which has Kenway eavesdropping on crucial conversations (by moving from rooftop to brush without being seen while remaining within the radius of earshot), carrying out complicated assassinations and generally making a name in the region.The sailing is a generous approximation of seafaring in the 1700s – the wind is accommodating of whichever direction you wish to travel and your galleon boasts the turning circle of a sports car – but the speed and ease of navigation make journey endlessly enjoyable, even if the appeal of plundering the endless treasure chests indicated on your maps wanes long before the chubby story lumbers to a conclusion. Nevertheless, as with all games of this extended playtime, incentive to play comes not from the meandering of the plot, the middling dialogue or the blunt characterisation, but rather the ongoing appeal of the game's virtual activities. The story is decorative in this regard, and, with the unappealing Kenway in the lead, a poor decoration at that.Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag: 'Wolf Pack' modeThe vastness of Black Flag's proposition only grows on the second game disc, which contains its online multiplayer component, developed by an entirely separate studio in the south of France, which builds upon past achievements. Aside from an overhauled "Wolf Pack" mode (in which players work together to complete objectives in order to add time to a constantly depleting clock), a large array of balancing tweaks and the introduction of guns, there are no new modes of which to speak. Invention instead arrives in the form of "Game Lab", a mode-creation tool that allows the community to set the rules for multiplayer games, tweaking 200 different parameters to create a vast array of different match types.Would-be game designers are able to remove melee kills, force certain ability sets and even ban all abilities, or specific abilities in their creations. The best modes will be shared with the community. In a glimpse of the future blending of single and multiple-player video games, Black Flag's main campaign has co-operative elements, comparing the spoils of your plundering with those of other players around the world and even sharing impromptu, timed in-game events that you discover with your circle of friends.Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag: 'Game Lab' lets players make custom modesIt's an exhausting, exhaustive proposal, and one that demands scores of hours' investment from its player before it will give up all of its secrets. Such girth and effort is impressive but hardly commendable in and of itself. But Black Flag largely justifies its breadth with meaningful depth. It wastes less of your time than its forebears. While Ubisoft continues to whip its studios into creating annual updates, Assassin's Creed will always lack the cinematic finesse of, say, Grand Theft Auto V. But importantly, its designers have found a historical setting where their restless ambition has at last found enough footholds to truly go somewhere.Reviewed on Xbox 360
Apple sold 33.8m iPhones last quarter, 26% more than the same time last year and a record for the quarter, the company said Monday. But the tech giant's shares wobbled as it announced a third consecutive quarterly decline in earnings.The company reported fiscal fourth-quarter revenue of $37.5bn, ahead of Wall Street's average forecast of $36.8bn, according to a poll of analysts by Thomson Reuters. Net income for the fourth fiscal quarter ended September 28 was $7.51bn, down from $8.22bn a year earlier. Shares initially fell over 3% in after-hours trading and continued to dip in and out of the red during a press conference with chief executive Tim Cook.The company said it sold 14.1m iPads during the quarter, up from 14m in the year-ago quarter, and sold 4.6m of its Mac computers, down from 4.9m a year ago. The company has just refreshed its iPad and Mac computer lines ahead of the Christmas sales season.Apple said it expected revenues of between $55bn and $58bn and gross margin between 36.5% and 37.5% in the all important quarter including Christmas. Cook said: "I think it's going to be an iPad Christmas."Colin Gillis, analyst at BGC Partners, said: "The market is hard to satisfy, especially when it comes to Apple. The company has been trying to give realistic guidance and this is a bit better than that, and that's not enough for some people.""We're pleased to report a strong finish to an amazing year with record fourth quarter revenue, including sales of almost 34m iPhones," said Cook. On a call with investors Cook said the results were a "strong finish to an amazing year."The results cameamid fears of disappointing salesfor iPhone's new 5C. In September Apple launched a high-end 5S iPhone aimed at its core customers and a cheaper, plastic-backed 5C that many supposed was meant to lure in new, more price-sensitive consumers.Just a month later The Wall Street Journal reported that Apple suppliers had been asked to cut production of the 5C. Localytics, a marketing platform for mobile apps, calculates that the 5S comfortably outsold the 5C in every single market since launch. Online Apple says there is a three-week wait for the 5S – the 5C ships in 24 hours.Cook told analysts that it was "never our intent" for the 5C to be Apple's entry-level iPhone. He said the iPhone 4S was now Apple's entry-level iPhone. Cook was quizzed about the price of the 4S, which was more expensive than the 5C in some markets. "Generally we see the 4S as our entry level iPhone offer," he said. "We clearly see that there is elasticity in that market and we will move accordingly."Barclays Research estimates that the iPhone accounted for 53% of Apple's revenue for the fiscal year that ended 30 September, compared with 19% for the iPad. "They are extraordinarily dependent on that product," said Gartner's Carolina Milanesi.Before the new iPhone launched International Data Corporation said Apple's posted a year-over-year decline in global market share during the second quarter of 2013. Android and Microsoft's Windows phone managed slight increases.As yet the 5C doesn't seem to be winning back sales. In the US, its best performing market, the 5S accounted for 67% of sales in the first month compared to the 5C. Localytics has found some evidence that the 5C is now gaining sales in the US over the 5S. In the rest of the world, however, 5S sales remain strongest. In the UK the 5S took 71% of sales, in Germany 87% and, perhaps most worrying of all, in China the more expensive phone took 83% of sales relative to the 5C.Apple's 5C with its colourful plastic back arrived after investors had pressured the company to offer a cheaper phone that might attract less wealthy buyers, particularly in China. The 5C is basically an iPhone 5 with a cheaper case – but it is still not cheap. At launch the device retailed in the US for $549, but can be had for $99 with a two-year contract. In China an unsubsidized iPhone 5S costs about $866, while an iPhone 5C costs $735.In a note to investors after the launch Toni Sacconaghi, tech analyst at Bernstein, expressed his frustration. "We worry that Apple's inability/unwillingness to come out with a low priced offering for emerging markets nearly ensures that the company will continue to be an overall share loser in the smartphone market until it chooses to address the low end," he wrote. "In essence, Apple continues to risk being relegated to a high-end niche player."Yankee Group analyst Carl Howe said it was too early to write off the 5C. "The truth is we don't know. They don't break out sales for different models, so it's a guessing game." But he said the 5C was likely to pick up sales after launch with more price sensitive shoppers. "The 5C buyer isn't the sort of buyer who stands in line. Once the 5S frenzy has died down, the 5C will be more popular," he predicted.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamKillzone: Shadow Fall spanned 290 GB before compression &gt;&gt; SlashGearSome new tidbits about Killzone: Shadow Fall have now surfaced claiming that the game tipped the scales at 290 GB before it is compressed to fit on a PlayStation 4 Blu-ray disc. That compression mashed the 290 GB size down to 40 GB. One reason for the huge amount of data Shadow Fall packs is the huge open game area.That&apos;s some serious compression.Designing the Lumia 2520: Nokia’s Stefan Pannenbecker on bold colors, curved displays and more &gt;&gt; The Next WebStefan Pannenbecker, head of product design at Nokia, on theLumia 2520and theMicrosoft Surface 2:“We didn’t think about what Microsoft or anyone else was doing,” he says. “We don’t worry much about that and we don’t lose sleep over what the other guys are doing. Basically, we have defined a design strategy and we’re quite consequent in the way that we execute. We’re not blind to what’s happening around the world, but we don’t worry about it either.”They might have to worry once Microsoft formally picks up Nokia&apos;s pink slip.Another daylight saving time bug strikes Apple&apos;s iOS 7, affects calendar display &gt;&gt; Apple InsiderSeveral AppleInsider readers have reported the line indicating the current time is displaced by one hour in the calendar app — for example, at 12:15 p.m., the calendar app draws the &quot;current time&quot; line in the slot for 1:15 p.m., despite displaying the correct time beside the line and in the system notification bar.You&apos;d thinkafter three yearsand three major software revisions Apple could get this one right.Is Google hinting at a Chrome OS tablet once again? &gt;&gt; TechRadarWhile Chrome remains desktop-based right now, there are a few hints popping up that a Chrome OS tablet could still become a reality.Google&apos;s Francois Beufort posted on Google+ to tell us that the latest developer version of Chrome packs a keyboard that &quot;contains almost all the keys found on the physical Chrome OS keyboard&quot;, including all the shortcuts.AChrome OStablet? Because one tablet operating system just isn&apos;t enough, clearly.Recent iOS updates simplify Burst Mode camera feature in iPhone 5s, helps users save storage space &gt;&gt; 9to5MacBecause photos from the 8 megapixel camera take up so much space, retaining the entire group of photos could have caused a negative effect on what users could store on their iPhones. With iOS 7.0.3, Apple has rectified this potential issue by making it simple to choose favorite images from the Burst Mode session and delete the other photos.Considering there&apos;s no micro SD expansion on the iPhone, space can certainly be at a premium sometimes.How Google Ventures-backed Play-i plans to use robots to help kids learn to code &gt;&gt; GigaOmFor example, a child could instruct Bo to move in any direction or she could string together a set of commands to program the robot to follow a specific path. The company is also making attachments that would enable the robots to pull other items or carry items around.Bo can even be programmed to play “Twinkle, Twinkle” on the xylophone or to “wake up” at a specific time to sing “Happy Birthday” to family member.Christmas day just got infinitely more annoying. At least they&apos;ll be learning something.Why blocking extra-marital affair site Ashley Madison in Singapore makes sense &gt;&gt; TechInAsiaOn one hand, the opposition in Singapore has grown vociferous, with a Facebook group attracting over 20,000 likes for a petition that calls on the government to block the website because it could undermine marriages, promote social disharmony, and ultimately “corrupt” Singapore.On the other hand, certain individuals say that the government should not play nanny. It should trust individuals to make informed choices about their personal lives.And therein lies the problem.Google updates reCAPTCHA to test whether you’re human before, during, and after you interact with CAPTCHAs &gt;&gt; The Next WebUnsurprisingly, Google wouldn’t share too much detail as to how the new system works, aside from saying it uses advanced risk analysis techniques, actively considering the user’s entire engagement (before, during and after) with the CAPTCHA. In other words, the distorted letters are not the only test.Let&apos;s hope acting like a human includes getting the characters wrong.Torrent Site Admin Who Turned Pigsty into Datacenter Jailed for a Year &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakIn addition to the custodial sentence the man was told to pay almost $62,000 against an undeclared income of $126,600 generated from the 65,000 member site during 2007 and 2008, some of which was spent converting a pigsty into a datacenter.At least it should have kept the pigs warm, all those electronics.You can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
How can digital music services win praise from musicians, rather than the kind of attacks recently aimed at Spotify byThom YorkeandDavid Byrne?For cellist Zoe Keating, its simple. &quot;Just include us,&quot; she said last night during a debate organised by Virgin that brought musicians, managers and technology firms together fora discussion of music/tech disruption.Keating was joined by fellow artists Amanda Palmer, Imogen Heap and will.i.am, Justin Bieber&apos;s manager Scooter Braun, Songkick chief executive Ian Hogarth, Spotify&apos;s Trevor Skeet (also a musician in his own right) and Vevo&apos;s senior vice-president of international Nic Jones.Heap, Skeet, Hogarth and Jones were in a London venue for the debate, while Palmer, Keating, Braun and will.i.am joined the conversation via video-chat.&quot;An artist like me couldn’t exist without technology: I can just record music in my basement and release it on the internet. And it’s levelled the playing field: an obscure artist like myself who makes instrumental cello music can just get it all out there,&quot; said Keating.&quot;But this is not just an excuse for services to replicate the payment landscapes of the past. It’s not an excuse to take advantage of those without power … Corporations do have a responsibility not just to their shareholders but to the world at large, and to artists.&quot;Keating renewed herprevious call for streaming services to share more data with musicians, as well as forging more links to other startups that help artists to connect directly with fans.&quot;Half of my income is from sales, but I don’t feel like streaming is the evil enemy,&quot; she said. &quot;I think it’s a good positive thing to get music out there. All I’m asking is make a direct deal with me, let me choose my terms.&quot;She was backed up by Palmer, who questioned whether technology companies like Apple, Google and Spotify should be investing more to fund the creation of music.&quot;As bad and clunky as the major label system was, you still had a constant influx of capital back from those giant, sometimes soul-sucking systems, back into content creation,&quot; said Palmer, who famously raised $1.2m on Kickstarter to fund her last album, book and tour.&quot;One weird thing is that iTunes, Apple, Spotify, Google, whatever … all of the people who are profiting off the artists from the small level to the huge levels aren’t really feeding very much back into the creation of new content. And that’s actually one of the largest problems.&quot;Amanda Palmer: 'iTunes, Apple, Spotify, Google, whatever &hellip; all of the people who are profiting off the artists from the small level to the huge levels aren&rsquo;t really feeding very much back into the creation of new content.' Screenshot: Stuart DredgeScooter Braun suggested that it&apos;s partly the responsibility of artists and managers to demand more of a role in guiding the strategy of digital music services, but also said that they shouldn&apos;t forget that it&apos;s fans who are driving new music consumption models, not artists or technologists.&quot;Here’s the deal: we can say we want things to be better, we want things to change, and we’ll get there. But we have to realise that the consumer and the listener dictates what happens,&quot; said Braun.&quot;You get what you negotiate, and the only way you have innovation in the industry is if you demand it... The last time things changed dramatically, which was iTunes, the labels had a voice at the table and the artists did not ... As Spotify comes out and Beats comes out, iTunes Radio and all those things, the most important thing is that all artists have a voice.&quot;Several of the artists in the Virgin Disruptors debate found a voice to criticise Vevo, with Heap, Keating and will.i.am all attacking the fact that artists don&apos;t have a say in which brands their music videos are associated with on the ad-supported service.&quot;It’s very disheartening to go onto my Vevo channel and find some awful advert I have to sit through,&quot; said Heap. &quot;I don’t know exactly the deal that you have with the label that I license to, Sony, but I would like to. But it’s not easy to get that information.&quot;will.i.am went further, pointing out that artists foot the bill to make their music videos, but are powerless to control the ads shown around them.&quot;At what point in time does Vevo pay for the content that gives you the ability to put commercials that we don’t want before our content?&quot; he asked. &quot;And if we did want it, can we choose what brands come before or after our content when I’m the one paying for the video? It’s a very very very very touchy subject which is not being talked about.&quot;Tech companies may be justified in pushing back against some of this criticism. Vevo said in November 2012 that it hadpaid $200m out to music industry rightsholderssince its launch in 2009, whileSpotify paid out $500m between 2008 and 2012, andexpects to pay another $500m in 2013 alone.Apple, meanwhile, is estimated to begenerating $6.9bn of annual music sales through its iTunes Store. All of this is money that in theory is &quot;feeding very much back into the creation of new content&quot; in Palmer&apos;s words.The key caveat: it&apos;s being paid to labels and publishers, not directly to artists and songwriters. How big a share they see depends on their contracts, which was a theme addressed by will.i.am. &quot;Our contract is all based on old technology. An album is 12 songs, because that’s how much information fit on a record … If you’re complaining about this music industry, let’s go back down to the contract,&quot; he said.Imogen Heap: 'It&rsquo;s very disheartening to go onto my Vevo channel and find some awful advert I have to sit through' Screenshot: Stuart DredgeThe Black Eyed Peas star also suggested that musicians should be collaborating more with coders and hardware engineers. &quot;I Gotta Feeling is still the number one downloaded song of all time in iTunes, but I made more money from the equity I own in [headphones maker] Beats. That tells you hardware is the place,&quot; he said.&quot;If you&apos;re going to complain about somebody else&apos;s system, you need to sit down with somebody who can create your own system. It&apos;s not hard to create systems nowadays.&quot;Palmer later pointed out that this isn&apos;t a strategy that can suit all musicians. &quot;There are a lot of artists out there that don’t wanna be technological warriors … they don’t want to create a whole new fucking platform, they just want to make music,&quot; she said. &quot;For the many, many, many artists who don’t necessarily want to delve into the tech business and engage in this way, my question is what about them?&quot;Will.i.am suggested that those artists should ensure they have people around them who do want to get to grips with new technology and services. But the overall theme was of collaboration between musicians and technologists, which is where Keating made her point about inclusion. &quot;I’d like to work with music services to try to make the ecosystem of the future, so call me up!&quot; she said.Keating has already beenworking with Hogarth and Songkick through the latter&apos;s Detour programme, which helps fans band together to request gigs by favourite artists in their cities, and pledge to buy tickets – making it effectively a crowdfunding service for live music.&quot;A ticket over the last 40 years hasn’t really changed: it&apos;s a way of figuring out if someone should be allowed into a building, and a way to add additional fees,&quot; he said, before outlining an alternative born from collaboration with musicians.&quot;A ticket should be an expression of what it’s like to be in that room. It’s a connection: an economic connection between you as a fan and the artist that you love. That’s what we’re trying to do with Songkick and Detour,&quot; he said. &quot;Let’s look at the first principles of this industry and try to reset them all.&quot;
Motorola has revealed its latest effort to shake up the smartphone market: Project Ara, described by the Google subsidiary as &quot;a free, open hardware platform for creating highly modular smartphones&quot;.It wasannounced last night in a blog postexplaining that Project Ara handsets will consist of a central &quot;endoskeleton&quot; and additional modules created by a range of other developers and companies.The first Module Developer&apos;s Kit will be made available &quot;sometime this winter&quot;, raising the prospect that Project Ara smartphones could be on sale sometime in 2014.Motorola is recruiting people to become &quot;Ara Scouts&quot;to help test the devices, similar to Google&apos;s Glass Explorer scheme for its Glass augmented eyewear.&quot;We want to do for hardware what the Android platform has done for software: create a vibrant third-party developer ecosystem, lower the barriers to entry, increase the pace of innovation, and substantially compress development timelines,&quot; explained Paul Eremenko from Motorola&apos;s advanced technology and projects team, which is leading the Project.&quot;Our goal is to drive a more thoughtful, expressive, and open relationship between users, developers, and their phones. To give you the power to decide what your phone does, how it looks, where and what it’s made of, how much it costs, and how long you’ll keep it.&quot;Eremenko added that Project Ara has been in development for more than a year now, although a six-month road-trip for Sticky – &quot;a truck wrapped entirely in velcro and filled with rooted, hackable Motorola smartphones and high-end 3D printing equipment&quot; – was a key influence on the current shape of the project.This isn&apos;t the first attempt at a modular smartphone. Motorola is already working with Dave Hakkens, founder of thePhonebloksproject to create a similar device, where each hardware &quot;blok&quot; is repairable and replaceable.&quot;We’ve done deep technical work. Dave created a community. The power of open requires both. So we will be working on Project Ara in the open, engaging with the Phonebloks community throughout our development process,&quot; wrote Eremenko.Just as relevant a comparison is Modu, the Israeli startup that tried to get a modular smartphone off the ground in 2008, but whichshut down in early 2011. Google reportedlyacquired the company&apos;s patent portfolio later that year, so Modu&apos;s technology may live on in Project Ara.
It's Tuesday.
Just one year after its foundation in London, an organisation created by Sir Tim Berners-Lee and Sir Nigel Shadbolt to stimulate economic, environmental and social innovation through a system of open data sharing and analysis, has announced rapid global expansion of its ambitions.TheOpen Data Institutehas announced the launch of 13 international centres, known as "nodes", each of which will bring together companies, universities, and NGOs that support open data projects and communities. The nodes will be based in the US, Canada, France, Dubai, Italy, Russia, Sweden and Argentina, with two extra US nodes Chicago and North Carolina. Three further UK nodes are to open in Manchester, Leeds and Brighton.The new ODI nodes will variously operate at local and national levels. Each one has agreed to adopt the ODI Charter, which is a open source codification of the ODI itself, and embodies principles of open data business, publishing, communication, and collaboration.The ODI is a non-for-profit organisation that has so far helped set up more than a dozen open data-based startup companies in the UK, generating income, research and training. It has also created acertificate for open dataallowing all users to access information on many areas such as healthcare, transport, peer-to-peer lending, and energy efficiency. The UK ODI secured £10m funding over five years from the UK innovation agency, theTechnology Strategy Board, $750,000 from global philanthropic investorOmidyar Networkcreated by eBay founder Pierre Omidyar. It aims for long-term sustainability through match funding and direct revenue through memberships and supporters.With the new global network announced at the ODI's first annual summit at the Museum of London on Tuesday, CEO Gavin Starks said: "I have been amazed at the energy and enthusiasm of people looking to align around a global network of ODIs … the speed at which we have been able to collaborate, and the shared thinking about the approach and the scale of the potential. We have borrowed from the design principles of the web itself to bring people and organisations together, and will use open data both to collaborate with each other, and as the primary output of the network."Berners-Lee and Shadbolt described their motivation for the ODI: "We recognised there was a great opportunity to enhance transparency, improve efficiency, and create social, environmental and economic value. The best way that open becomes the new default is demand: from businesses and organisations, both public and private, from individuals and corporations. There is nothing so powerful as an idea whose time has come."Sir Nigel Shadbolt (left) and Sir Tim Berners-Lee co-founders of the Open Data Institute which announces 13 international 'nodes' at its first annual summit. Photograph: Rex FeaturesBig data specialistsMastadonCjoined the ODI startup programme in December 2012 and has been one of ODI's particular success stories. MastodonC offers an open source technology platform for clients in a zero-carbon structure. It analysed NHS prescribing data withOpen Health Care UKandBen Goldacre, the doctor and writer behind BadScience.net. Its study revealed apotential £200m of NHS savingsafter analysing prescribing patterns for statins, drugs used to prevent cardiovascular problems. It also worked alongside the Department for Climate Change and the Energy Saving Trust, managing data from aprojectto retrofit more than 100 homes, from which it revealed emissions savings of between 60% and 85%.The ODI also helped produce a report,Show me the Moneythat provided a comprehensive snapshot of the UK peer-to-peer lending (P2P) market. It also became the first financial data published with an open data certificate. As a result of the research, loan company LendInvest lowered its minimum investor-led level from £50,000 to £10,000.Transport API(built by another startup, Placr) created a single source of public transport information for developers that includes timetable, live departure and disruption information from open data sources data to Transport for London, CityMapper, and more than 300 developers. Digital startup CarbonCulture has worked withNo 10 Downing Street,Tate ModernandCardiff Councilto measure and report on their carbon and energy performance.Francis Maude, minister for the Cabinet Office, said: "The Open Data Institute – the first organisation of its kind – grew out of our belief in the power of open data to foster innovation, drive economic growth and create prosperity. The fact that only one year on, cities and countries around the world want to adopt the ODI model, is evidence of how quickly the open data revolution is spreading. The establishment of ODI nodes in UK cities will help embed an open data culture in communities, and bring the economic benefits of new and innovative data-led businesses that will help the UK compete in the global race."With its new global network, the ODI aims to replicate such achievements internationally. Waldo Jaquith, founder the new US-wide ODI, said: "'The US has a vibrant, fast-growing open data ecosystem. The ODI provides a model that can help to catalyse and connect the organisations, governments, businesses, and individuals who are doing brilliant work with open data. As a nation, we have the resources, tools, and people that we need – they just need to be connected and given a helping hand. It's time to bring the ODI model to the US."Currently facing criticism over in theNSA spying scandal and the furore of long-term surveillanceof foreign allies, Barack Obama in fact became a pioneer for the open data movement on his first day in office in January 2009 by issuing amemo on the Freedom of Information Act to federal departments. Thedata.govwebsite was set up in May 2009, thousands of datasets were released, and many other countries release data.gov websites in the same year. His statement said: "In the face of doubt, openness prevails" and talked of "accountability through transparency".On the overall subject of accountability, ODI co-founder Shadbolt, who is also professor of artificial intelligence at Southampton University, said: "There will be times when we have to hold government to account, to call out poor data practice, to highlight the precarious state of data assets in both the public and private sector."The ODI uses the term "nodes" after Berners-Lee's revolutionary step in 1989 in creation of the world wide web. At the time he proposed that "HyperText is a way to link and access information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can browse at will." The ODI aims to be catalyst for change as much as Berners-Lee's 24-year-old invention.
Nottingham is a game-like city – compact yet intricate and filled with intriguing architectural detail. The looming Victorian warehouses of the Lace Market jam straight up against the modern multi-lane roads that slice through the centre; the vast old market square, like an arena section in a death match map, gives way on all sides to rising alleyways and pub-lined back streets. The city coils around itself, embracing the medieval remnants, the sprawling shopping malls and the huge brutalist hotels that jut out above the skyline like grave stones. Everything huddles in, forming a monumental Super Mario 64 level. It is a good place for a game festival.And so many games, so many developers. This year's GameCity festival covered everything from the Fullbright Company's critically revered Gone Home, to Roflpillar a game in which you roll around in a tent to control a caterpillar. There were talks, workshops, weird experiments and brilliant new titles that will certainly be hits one day. There were also lots of discussions about the state of game development and the meaning of it all. Here are five things I took away.Games want pleasure tooAuriea Harvey and Michaël Samyn from Belgian studioTale of Taleswere at GameCity to show their sensuous exploration game Luxuria Superbia – a game that demands you pleasure it, not the other way around. The interaction consists of stroking a series of tunnel-like flowers, which respond to your caresses with increasingly urgent on-screen prompts. "Touch me, kiss me, softly…" If you 'complete' a level too quickly, you leave the game disappointed and unsatisfied.Meanwhile, Robin Arnott's experimental audio adventureSoundselfhas you effectively singing with the computer as transcendental imagery throbs across the screen. We're used to players being judged in terms of skill and the mastery of rules; we're not used to being assessed by a game for our sensuality, our sensitivity of touch and voice. Perhaps this is a future avenue for games – the idea of interacting with an artificial intelligence in a giving way. Perhaps the skills that make people better lovers will soon make them better gamers too.The arcade concept can be indie-fiedFor several years, events like Wild Rumpus have explored and celebrated the concept of social installation games – the likes of Johan Sebastian Joust and BUTTON, which work brilliantly in pub and club venues, with lots of semi-inebriated players. GameCity 8 was filled with experimental projects that looked like indie arcade cabinets. There was Lucky Frame's Roflpillar, in which players lie on the floor wearing a reverse-engineered motion control device, and then wriggle to move an onscreen caterpillar. It's a hilarious two-player competitive, apple-munching game; like Snake, but taking place under a weird table-like display cabinet. There were also all the astonishing dual-screen games that appeared in the Old Market Square, like Jonathan Smith's Crisis Panic Team and Martin Hollis' Aim For Love. Watching the dynamics of mass interaction, of curious shoppers approaching and then cooperating within these bizarre games was fascinating. They hint at emerging forms of entertainment that combine spontaneous teamwork, spectatorship and competition.Players are increasingly performersAt his press event on Friday night, Thomas Was Alone creator Mike Bithell spoke about how his new game, Volume, was designed to allow player expression. Not only does this stealth game provide a level editor, but it also directly addresses and embraces the YouTube generation, employing online video superstar Charlie McDonnell as the lead voice actor. Bithell wants to embrace the generation that creates its own content out of games; just as the PS4 and Xbox One want to with their record-and-share functions. Add in the coming era of HD cameras, motion tracking and VR role-play and we have a formative generation of gamer/actor/presenters. But also, we can move on from the display altogether. Ste Curran'sKickstarted card game Karaokardsand Hide&amp;Seek's brilliantly inclusiveTiny Gamesbring the social connectivity right out into the social environment, until the players are enjoying each other in a space only partially mediated by pixels.'Gameplay' is not necessarily game mechanicsIn a fascinating interview with playwright Lucy Prebble, Steve Gaynor, the designer of Gone Home, talked about how he rejected standard game conventions such as puzzles and enemies, to create a much less rigorously systemised gaming experience. But yet Gone Home, filled with atmosphere, narrative content and exploration is clearly a game. In their talk about sexuality in games on Monday evening, Leigh Alexander and Quintin Smith discussed several of the much-maligned 'interactive cinema' games of the early nineties, criticised for their lack of interactivity, yet loaded with challenging content, some crass and exploitative, but much of it – like voyeuristic couples therapy game Tender Loving Care and psychosexual thriller Phantasmagoria – pushing at new buttons for gaming audiences.So often, interaction is linked with the mechanics and conventions of input and interface, but immersion and attention can be more subtle. Gone Home evokes an atmosphere of tension, it offers an explorable world, yet it is sort of a linear experience that toys with player agency in a similar way to Dear Esther, only more refined. In the hauntingPapa Sangre II, which we played in the supernaturally-charged Galleries of Justice, the underworld is navigated by sound alone and the domain is purely imaginative. In games as in life, whether or not we truly inhabit a world has as much to do with how we think as how we behave. And gameplay isn't a set of instructions, it's agift. "There's this girl, she gave me this tape, I haven't stopped playing it since..."Video games can do subtextTali Goldstein from Montreal-based studio Minority had many audience members on the verge of tears when she appeared on me and Cara Ellison's Power Lunch chat show thing. She spoke about how the underlying meaning of the team's first game, Papa &amp; Yo, spoke to victims of childhood trauma and abuse; she told us about the letters and emails sent in from players who found the game's allegorical story – of a boy coping with his father's alcoholism – to be therapeutic. At her talk the following day, she introduced the next game, Silent Enemy, which uses aboriginal myths to explore concepts of bullying and loneliness. Like the Fullbright Company, Minority isn't scared to let meaning lurk under the surface. We're so used to narrative games pummeling us with exposition, turning every theme and idea into deadening dialogue. Subtext requires trust in the player – and game designers are beginning to open up in that way.A story is something that happens somewhere between the page and the reader, the screen and the viewer, and the game and the player. GameCity told us that the location for this meeting can pushed more toward the recipient. Gone Home and Silent Enemy are both about trust, subtext and allegory. The game is in the connection, the personal reading, the semiotics of interaction. Games want to be pleasured and they want to be understood. But it is time they stoppedtellingus everything.Oh yeah, there was something else – not a lesson so much as a reminder. That games are empowering and enhancing, and that the way Twitter problemitises the industry is not the only lens through which to view it. That people love playing together; that dads can teach their daughters, and daughters can teach their siblings, and that everyone can sit on bean bags and play Micro Machines and it is all okay.GameCity is a community, where distinctions between developers, press and public fade away and become irrelevant; where everyone gets a say. This is what I mean about games and performance. There is an electro-static connection between designer and player that mimics that between actor and audience, and incredible things happen when the two meet and interact. Things like Twine and Game Maker are democratising creation even beyond the opportunities offered by digital distribution and free 3D engines. I spent a while in one of Cara Ellison's Twine classes at GameCity, hidden away on the top floor of the Confetti building, a room full of screens and people creating stuff. What a sense of achievement from that place, what a sense of belonging.On the train back to Somerset, through endless suburbs and slab-like industrial ghettos, a sustaining thought: people are going home and understanding games a bit more, and feeling included, like I did. Games are for everyone, everywhere – they mean something, they can save people, they can be solace. All the men and women are merely players, you see; they have their exits and their entrances, and one man in his time plays many parts.That's it, I think. Play more parts. Play all the parts.
The frustrating wait for Grand Theft Auto V&apos;s official iFruit companion app to launch on Android devices is over: the appwent live on the Google Play storeearlier today.Published by Rockstar Games, its features include the ability for players to customise cars and reserve licence plates for use in GTA 5 and Grand Theft Auto Online, to be delivered to their garage next time they play the console game. It also acts as a mobile interface to the game&apos;s spoof social network, LifeInvader.iFruit is also a virtual pet game involving Chop, the dog belonging to the Franklin character in the main game. &quot;Look after him well in the Chop the Dog app and you will reap the benefits when playing as Franklin in Grand Theft Auto V,&quot; explains Rockstar.&quot;Pet him, feed and water him, play fetch and tug-of-war, teach him tricks. Too much or too little of an activity, however, will cause Chop to become unhappy, and nobody likes an unhappy Rottweiler.&quot;iFruit was released for iOS devices in mid-September, and although Rockstar promised at the time that it would be &quot;coming soon&quot; to Android, no news since has led many Android owners to wonder why there was such a delay.Now they won&apos;t have to wonder any more. &quot;Depth of content, high production values, defecation. It’s the app that has it all,&quot; as the Google Play listing puts it.
A hacker group sympathetic to Syrian president Bashar al-Assad claimed responsibility Monday for an attack in which President Barack Obama's official Twitter account linked to a war propaganda video.The hackers targeted a link-shortening service used by the Obama account, which is administered by the former campaign group Organizing for Action.The resulting Obama tweet appeared to link to a Washington Post story about immigration.Immigration is a bipartisan issue:http://t.co/PI3AcScpxG#ActOnReform&mdash; Barack Obama (@BarackObama)October 28, 2013But the link briefly carried users to a half-hour-longYouTube videothat opens with footage of the 9/11 attacks.The Syrian Electronic Army claimed credit for the attack in a statement obtained by the Associated Press. "Obama doesn't have any ethical issues with spying on the world, so we took it upon ourselves to return the favor," the statement said.The hacker group staged amajor attackon the New York Times website at the end of August andhackedthe Associated Press's Twitter account in April.
When Apple launched its latest iPhones in September, it tried a new tactic: cheap – well, cheaper, anyway. Later today, the company is to update investors, many of whom are worried the tactic may not have worked. The initial signs are not good.Apple once ruled the smartphone market but nowfaces stiff competitionfrom Samsung, HTC and others running Google's Android operating system. In September it launched a high end 5S iPhone aimed at its core customers and a cheaper, plastic-backed 5C that many supposed was meant to lure in new, more price-sensitive, consumers.Just a month later, The Wall Street Journal reported that Apple suppliers had been asked to cut production of the 5C. Localytics, a marketing platform for mobile apps, calculates that the 5S has comfortably outsold the 5C in every single market since launch. Online, Apple says there is a three week wait for the 5S, but the 5C ships in 24 hours.Sales of iPhones matter massively for Apple. Barclays Research estimates that the iPhone accounted for 53% of Apple's revenue for the fiscal year that ended September 30, compared with 19% for the iPad. Signs of a slip could send Apple's shares spiraling. "They are extraordinarily dependent on that product," said Gartner's Carolina Milanesi.Before the new iPhones launched, International Data Corporation said Apple posted a year-over-year decline in global market share during the second quarter of 2013. Android and Microsoft's Windows phone managed slight increases.As yet, the 5C doesn't seem to be winning back sales. In the US, its best performing market, the 5S accounted for 67% of sales in the first month compared to the 5C. Localytics has found some evidence that the 5C is now gaining sales in the US over the 5S. In the rest of the world, however, 5S sales remain strongest. In the UK the 5S took 71% of sales, in Germany 87% and, perhaps most worrying of all, in China the more expensive phone took 83% of sales relative to the 5C.Apple's 5C with its colourful plastic back arrived after investors had pressured the company to offer a cheaper phone that might attract less wealthy buyers, particularly in China. The 5C is basically an iPhone 5 with a cheaper case – but it is still not cheap. At launch, the device retailed in the US for $549, but can be had for $99 with a two-year contract. In China an unsubsidized iPhone 5S costs about $866, while an iPhone 5C costs $735.In a note to investors after the launch, Toni Sacconaghi, tech analyst at Bernstein, expressed his frustration. "We worry that Apple's inability/unwillingness to come out with a low-priced offering for emerging markets nearly ensures that the company will continue to be an overall share loser in the smartphone market until it chooses to address the low end," he wrote. "In essence, Apple continues to risk being relegated to a high-end niche player."Yankee Group analyst Carl Howe said it was too early to write off the 5C. "The truth is we don't know. They don't break out sales for different models, so it's a guessing game." But he said the 5C was likely to pick up sales after launch with more price-sensitive shoppers. "The 5C buyer isn't the sort of buyer who stands in line. Once the 5S frenzy has died down, the 5C will be more popular," he predicted.Milanesi said Apple's market share was slipping but that it was too simplistic to look solely at how much of the pie Apple was taking. She pointed out that only Apple and Samsung were managing to make money from smartphones and that Apple was protecting that position by retaining its premium position.With the company so dependent on the iPhone, Milanesi said it was unlikely to mess too much with its magic formula until it had another "wow" product to do the heavy lifting. In the meantime "cheap" is likely to remain a relative term at Apple. "I always question this idea of market share. I don't think Apple wants consumers who just want the cheapest iPhone. They want the consumer who buys into the ecosystem, who will buy and iPad, apps. They don't want to be the phone for everybody."
I am terrible at10 Second Ninja. Like, I am so bad I think I may actually be angering its designer Dan Pearce. He's showing his precision-based 2D platformer in GameCity's open arcade space and can't quite believe his eyes as I fail a seemingly simple double jump time after time, impaling my teeny ninja on a row of spikes. "You do this for a living?" he asks.Developed as a side-project from his work with brilliant indie teamThe Tall Trees, 10 Second Ninja is about saving Earth from invading Nazi robots and their leader – a huge spherical metallic ball resembling Hitler. It is not a serious game – at least not in terms of narrative, which is something of an escape for Pearce. "The games we do at Tall Trees are very emotionally driven," he explains. "That can get exhausting after a while. I really made this to teach myself more about game design."The premise is simple: you race through 40 single-screen levels, destroying all the robots on each, either with your sword, or with your long-range shuriken attack, which can only be employed three times on each level. The catch is, you only have – yes – 10 seconds to complete each screen: the faster you do it, the more stars you are rewarded.The movement is super smooth, the double jump mechanic perfect, but the levels are incredibly exact and fiendishly challenging, especially later, when dissolving platforms and falling metal cubes come in. It's like a sadistic take on the original Super Mario titles, a new slant on the whole 'massacore' genre of unfairly tough platformers.But Pearce wasn't really inspired by the Miyamoto classics, or the vintage titles like Bombjack and Bruce Lee that it recalls. He's 19-years-old. 19! To get here, he studied the work of new wave 2D exponents like Adam Saltsman and Vlambeer. Both are perfectionists, both obsessively iterate on controls, pace and 'game feel' with relentless dedication. "I grew up with 3D games so I've had to work backwards," says Pearce. "Saltsmanhas written onhow, it's not about what the player is doing with their thumbs, it's about what they're thinking in the seconds before that. If you look at where Adam placed the hit box for the character in Canabalt, it's behind where you would expect – he works with the instincts of the player."Pearce describes the experience of perfecting a level in 10 Second Ninja as like dancing. For me, you have to stop thinking about the level as a space, and see it as visual set of instructions for a Street Fighter special move: you concentrate on the exact joypad inputs needed to pull it off. It is demanding but compulsive – failure comes in seconds and a fast retry button gets you in again straightaway. You just keep going.Except, I'm so bad that eventually I just meekly hand the controls back to Pearce and he races through the game, amiably chatting about his influences and approach to design. So far he has been working on this game for 18 months, far longer than he expected – but the effort and application show in the pinpoint controls. From Vlambeer, Pearce has clearly learned the value of iteration, but he also brings in his own charm and wit. Which is a pretty likeable combination. The future of ridiculously compulsive single-screen 2D platformers is in safe hands.• 10 Second Ninja is due for release on PC and Mac in early 2014
Plans by the business network LinkedIn to &quot;enhance&quot; users&apos; email on iPhones by adding detail via a proxy server have been criticised as a security risk, but the company says such fears are &quot;purely speculative&quot;.The companyoutlined its plans in a blogpost, describing how its new &quot;Intro&quot; service filters email through a LinkedIn server before sending it onto the user, identifying LinkedIn users and injecting their details into the emails through a new interactive box that appears at the top of each email.“I&apos;m sure the engineers who developed Intro are patting themselves on the back about how clever they have been – but it has ghastly implications,”claimed independent security expert Graham Cluleyin a blog post.&quot;I&apos;m not suggesting that they have created LinkedIn Intro with any malicious intentions (unless you consider them injecting an advertisement for their brand in every email malicious), but clearly security is not part of the website&apos;s DNA – and that troubles me.&quot;‘A middleman for all their emails’In order to inject the Intro service into the top of a user’s email, the LinkedIn servers require full access to their email account, connecting directly with the user’s email servers and then forwarding the modified email to the iPhone through the use of a custom security profile users install on their iPhones.“I cannot imagine any security-conscious firm being comfortable with its employees handing LinkedIn access to its emails – it just introduces another link in the privacy chain which could be potentially exploited,” wrote Cluley.LinkedIn has responded to the criticismin a blogpost of its ownfrom information security manager Cory Scott promising to &quot;address inaccurate assertions&quot; made about Intro. &quot;Many things have been said about the product implementation that are not correct or are purely speculative, so this post is intended to clear up these inaccuracies and misperceptions,&quot; wrote Scott.&quot;When the LinkedIn Security team was presented with the core design of Intro, we made sure we built the most secure implementation we believed possible. We explored numerous threat models and constantly challenged each other to consider possible threat scenarios.&quot;Scott described how the company employed SSL encryption during the email transit between servers, isolated the Intro systems from the rest of LinkedIn’s networks, and employed security firm iSEC Partners to test the security of the system prior to launch.Despite those assurances, security fears still exist, especially givenan incident in which users&apos; passwords were compromised last year. &quot;Does anyone really want LinkedIn – of all companies – to act as a middleman for all of their emails?” asked Cluely.Putting faces to names breeds a phishing riskLinkedIn's new Intro service "enhances" email with names and details pulled from LinkedIn's business networkBased on technology acquired by LinkedIn through itspurchase of email company Rapportivein 2012, Rahul Vohradescribed the Intro serviceas “everything you need to put faces to names”.Cluley is not the only person questioning Intro&apos;s potential for security risks. Jordan Wright, an engineer at security firm CoNetrix,published his own blogpostcriticising the new feature on the grounds that its injection of names and faces from LinkedIn&apos;s network could provide a false sense of security that is ripe for exploitation by &quot;phishing&quot; emails.“While Linkedin Intro seems like it would be useful on the surface – the security risks of using it are simply too high,” wrote Wright, before suggesting that &quot;by giving users a false sense of security when they see the Intro information in an email” LinkedIn has made it possible to create highly realistic phishing emails, increasing the likelihood that unsuspecting users could fall for malicious social engineering.All email received passes through LinkedIn&apos;s serversThe Intro service is also has implications for data privacy, even for those who aren’t directly using the service as all email received by an Intro user will pass through LinkedIn’s servers.“It galls me to think that any email I send to someone who signs up for this service, will now be sharing my private correspondence with LinkedIn as well,” said Cluley.However, LinkedIn&apos;s Scott maintained that the service will use its existing pledge of privacy and privacy policy to govern its handling of data harvested by its new feature.&quot;After having been a member of the security community for more than 15 years, I understand that healthy scepticism and speculation towards worst-case scenarios are an important part of the security discipline; however, we felt, in this case, it was necessary to correct the misperceptions,&quot; he wrote.&quot;We welcome and encourage an open dialogue about the risks that are present in all internet-based services that handle electronic mail and other sensitive data.&quot;• In June 2012, LinkedIn sufferedtwo security breaches,one of which was self inflicted, that saw user data including account passwords posted on the internet by hackers
Nearly 60% of British games developers say that piracy is a problem for their business, but that doesn&apos;t mean they want to see a crackdown on filesharers who are downloading and playing their games without paying.Trade association Tiga surveyed its members, and found 87% agreeing that new business models were the best way to combat piracy, with only 10% saying that stricter enforcement of their intellectual property rights was the best option.A total of 73% disagreed with the suggestion that pirates should have their internet connection slowed down and eventually cut off if they are consistently caught downloading copyrighted games, music and films, although 40% of Tiga&apos;s members said they think it&apos;s important to educate players about their concerns over piracy.&quot;Tiga’s survey shows that many games businesses continue to find the most effective response to the problem of piracy is to adopt new business models, such as subscription based services and free to play games,&quot; said chief executive Dr Richard Wilson.&quot;UK developers are taking the initiative to deal with the issue of piracy and are looking for new ways of delivering content and communicating directly with their consumers.&quot;The survey found that piracy of Android games remains an issue for developers, with 67% claiming it&apos;s higher on Android than on other devices like Apple&apos;s iPhone. Tiga says feedback from these respondents indicates that they still feel Android is worth making games for, due to the sheer size of its install base.Earlier this year, one UK studio – Football Manager developer SI Games – said that the most recent version for Android devices was beingpirated 10 times for every legal sale. According to stats on the Google Play store, the game has beenpurchased between 100,000 and 500,000 times.Some 73% of Tiga&apos;s surveyed members said that piracy is staying at a constant level, with 40% saying they expect it to be a threat to their businesses in five years&apos; time, while 37% think it won&apos;t.As more mobile games shift from paid titles to the free-to-play model, making their money from in-app purchases, piracy may become less of an issue. That said, the problem may simply shift from pirated games to cracked in-app purchase systems.
It's January 2015 and my four-year plan to take Swindon Town to the Premier League isn't going so well. We're mired in a League One relegation dogfight, the players are injured or knackered, and every day an ex-pro, rival manager or snarky journalist publicly reminds everybody I'm under pressure. I'm hauled before the board and hold onto my job only by promising 10 points from the next five games, an all-but-impossible feat given the fixture list and rock-bottom morale. It's then that Nile Ranger knocks on my door and says he's better than Swindon and wants out. I want to sing "go go Nile Ranger" to the Power Rangers theme tune, but I need his goals and tell him he's going nowhere. "I'm not at all happy with how you've handled this," he says, storming out, and a day later a story is leaked to the press that I've lost the dressing room. A month later, I'm toast.I was expecting a terrific tactical simulation from Sport's Interactive's latest offering – and it is – but I was surprised to find it's also akin to a crude Telltale adventure game you could call The Walking Damned United. Interactions with press, players and staff have featured before, but never with this sophistication. From asking your captain to have a quiet word with a sulking striker, to rebuking a fellow manager for failing to give your loanee youngster first team football as agreed, the possibilities are vast. There's no headline-grabbing improvement in 2014 to match last year's Classic mode – discounting Linux support and cloud saves – but it's these dealings that define its character.Football Manager 2014: tacticsMedia relations are significantly spruced up and you'll be asked more varied questions, your responses ranging from calm to animated. While fieriness can be fun, it makes managerial progression much harder, like adopting evil-alignment in an RPG or being Paolo Di Canio. Play the media's game and you can build relationships with individual journalists, making them more susceptible to your car window patter on transfer deadline day. The latter now appears in Classic mode and captures brilliantly the day's absurd countdown, with you failing to get players you should have got cheaply a month ago owing to paperwork not being completed on time. The only thing missing is a running commentary from Jim "Two Phones" White.Still, dealings with the media remain imperfect. You can be asked the same question, worded slightly differently, three times in a row. While this is indeed what real press conferences can be like, the unintentional satire isn't fun to play. At other times, the questions bear no relation to reality. A week after a defender made two individual errors that led directly to goals, I'm asked to explain the secret of his "great form". Likewise, there's a lack of context to the pronouncements others make. A week that sees a local derby in the Capital One Cup on Tuesday followed by the same fixture in the league on Saturday produces identikit reactions from players and pundits before each game.Football Manager 2014: transfer deadline daySuch frustrations are noticeable because the developers have done a great job of cutting them elsewhere. Your newly colour-coded inbox allows you to prioritise and deal with almost every issue from a single screen, which frees you up to focus on the important matters like why your corners hit the first defender every single time. Tactics are filtered through one unified system, with sliders replaced by a raft of more realistic instructions and expanded player roles. The latter go far beyond the traditional playmaker/ball winner axis, but there are decent descriptions of the false nine or enganche provided in case you don't have Inverting the Pyramid to hand. Feedback from your staff is better than ever, with star ratings indicating a player's proficiency in any given role, and during matches your assistant will offer a running commentary of suggestions which can be implemented with a single click. These mostly make sense but there's an occasional disconnect between the proposal and intended outcome. Accepting the advice that "we need to get more shots on target" translates to "work ball into box" for example, which might go against your core match plan.Such discrepancies are amplified by the match engine, which remains the least satisfying aspect of the series. Nobody expects Fifa 13 presentation, but you do hope for a better translation of your tactics to the engine. It generally works well but errors are glaring. One particular bugbear was defenders standing off opponents no matter how many times I screamed at them to mark tightly and get stuck in. On the umpteenth occasion a striker ran unimpeded through the heart of my defence to score I nearly quit-out in frustration. Still, for the other times when everything comes together, you can now create and export custom highlights packages.Football Manager 2014: match reportOf course, if those in-depth features aren't your thing then Classic mode returns in improved form. The developers have wisely avoided adding many more features, concentrating instead on making the pared-down experience respond better to your choices. You can now create detailed plans for instant matches, explicitly stating when subs should be made and how your team should react to different eventualities. This makes using the instant result button less of a lottery should you choose to power through a season in an evening.It's no longer a straight shoot between the simplicity of Classic mode and a behemoth, however. Play the standard career and you start by sitting down with your assistant to flesh out precisely which aspects of management you want to handle. If you're bored by the toil of training regimes or talking to the press gives you hives, you can entrust your number two with such distractions. If you want something compact then challenges also make a welcome reappearance and the integration of Steam Workshop should also ensure a bountiful supply of user-created content in the near future.Football Manager 2014: negotiations with the boardPromoting his book recently, Sir Alex Ferguson kept reiterating his mantra of control. The joy of Football Manager 2014 comes in deciding precisely what aspects of management of which you want to take direct direct control, and in navigating its myriad systems to stamp your own philosophy on a club. Where it falls down, most notably with the match engine, is in those moments where your control seems inexplicably lost and the carefully constructed alternate-reality breaks. At its best, you see the fruits of your labours all too clearly. Ahead of derby day with Bristol City, I declared midfielder Stephen McLaughlin to be their weak link. He promptly volleyed home his first strike of the season to give them the win. A fun and life-absorbing game, yes, but a fickle one. In so many ways, it's like the real thing.Reviewed on PC
Activision has launched its latest Call of Duty game for Android smartphones and tablets.Call of Duty: Strike Teamis the latest in the series to be built specifically for mobile devices.The game, which costs £4.33 from Android&apos;s Google Play store, and at launch is available on a relatively narrow range of devices, including Nexus 7 and Galaxy Tab tablets, as well as smartphones from Samsung and LG.Strike Team launched for Apple&apos;s iPhone and iPad in Septemberas a time-limited exclusive for iOS. It&apos;s a so-called &quot;paymium&quot; game, with players paying for the initial download, but also able to spend up to £69.99 at a time on in-app purchases of virtual tokens to unlock the game&apos;s weapons and perks earlier.It&apos;s certainly one of the biggest games on Android, with 1.9GB of free space required to install it. The game mixes first and third-person action, with players able to switch between a traditional first-person shooter view, and a more strategic third-person perspective to arrange their squad&apos;s tactics.The game is the work of The Blast Furnace, which is Activision&apos;s internal mobile games studio, based in the UK. While the critical reception was warm on iOS, the game&apos;s commercial performance is more unclear: it&apos;s currently the 56th top paid game in the US App Store&apos;s iPad games category, but only 164th in the top grossing games chart for that device.
Rockstar has revealed details of several new features coming to GTA Online from November. The persistent online multiplayer mode, which is available as a free download to owners of Grand Theft Auto V, is still undergoing technical improvements after a rocky launch, but a range of gameplay additions will no doubt help keep players onside.Due out in early November, the 'Beach Bum' DLC pack will be the first content update, offering new beach-themed vehicles and outfits, as well as tattoos and hairstyles. The pack also features a selection of new online jobs to try out, featuring Gang Attack, Deathmatch, Parachute, Race and Last Team Standing mission types – all based around the map's coastal resorts.Previously announced alongside the Beach Bum pack, autumn will also see the first part of the Content Creator app, which will allow players to customise facets of the Online mode. Users will be able to create, share and rate new Deathmatch and Race challenges, and Rockstar will monitor the creative scene, featuring the best examples on its Newswire site with a 'Rockstar Verified' stamp of approval.The publisher is also starting a regular series of Grand Theft Auto Online Social Club Event weekends. According to the press release, "[These] will bring special rewards and bonuses ranging from limited-edition, in-game Event Crate Drops to in-game discount specials and even a special new GTA Online live-stream show hosted by Rockstar at the Social Club Events page and Rockstar Games Twitch page – plus prize pack giveaways of hard-to-find GTAV gear and more."Further information on two more promised additions – major online Heist missions and a Capture the Flag mode – are due later this week.Meanwhile, players are being kept waiting for the promised 'Stimulus Package' which will drop $500,000 of in-game cash into the bank accounts of players who have downloaded the GTA Online mode during October. Announced as a thank you to veteran players who have endured glitches, exploits and server issues throughout the first few weeks' of GTA Online's existence, the gift is being delayed until technical issues have been resolved. A new title update is expected to hit this week.
British American Tobacco has apologised after an advert for its Vype e-cigarettes brand was spotted in an iPad children&apos;s app.The ad was spotted by author and educator Graham Brown-Martin, whotweeted a screenshotshowing the Vype banner appearing inside theMy Dog My Style HDgame.After he alerted BAT&apos;s corporate Twitter account, the company pulled its online advertising for Vype, then followed up with an apology and explanation. &quot;We&apos;ve investigated and found a breach of protocols by third party used by ad agency. It&apos;s unacceptable and we&apos;re taking the issue seriously,&quot;explained BAT.&quot;This evening we have ensured that the procedures and protocols our agencies and their suppliers use are reviewed... We apologise that this has happened and are working to ensure this never happens again.&quot;This is not an isolated example of inappropriate ads appearing within a children&apos;s app, though. In a subsequent conversation with Brown-Martin, Twitter user Nik Rossertweeted a screenshot taken from a &quot;puppy dress-up&quot; gamehe&apos;d found his daughter playing, showing a gambling ad.In October 2012, the Guardian reported onads for payday lender Wonga appearing in the Talking Ginger app, while four months later the same developer&apos;s Talking Friends Cartoons app was found to bepromoting a ringtones subscription service that could have cost up to £208 a year.That developer, Outfit7, has since clamped down on what ads appear in its Talking Friends apps, which have been downloaded more than 1.2bn times. &quot;We believe we should be an example. We have a huge user-base among kids, and we can&apos;t afford to take that lightly,&quot;chief executive Samo Login told The Guardianin June 2013.This isn&apos;t so much a problem of disreputable developers as it is of oversight when allowing in-app ads to appear in apps intended for children.Developers don&apos;t sell ads directly to companies like BAT and Wonga: instead they sign up with advertising networks to have their banner spaces filled with display ads. Fail to set the right filters, and inappropriate ads may appear.It also reflects a wider problem in the children&apos;s apps market, where many developers are struggling to recoup their costs. A lot of parents still only download free apps for their children, so making money from paid downloads is difficult. Yet in-app purchases comefraught with their own ethical challenges, alongside those attached to advertising.Some companies –SuperAwesome in the UKfor example – are trying to build advertising networks of trusted brands for children&apos;s apps, reasoning that advertising funds children&apos;s television and magazines, so there must be an appropriate model for apps and games too.In the meantime, there is responsibility on all sides: on developers to take more care when using advertising and/or in-app purchases within children&apos;s apps, on ad networks to help their clients set the necessary filters (and on brands like BAT to ensure this is happening) and on parents to monitor the apps their children are using, and perhaps, to consider paying for ad-free apps more often.
Social app Snapchat has yet to make any revenues, but the company behind it may be valued at up to $4bn in its next funding round.The US startup is seeking toraise $200m at a valuation of between $3bn and $4bnaccording to the Wall Street Journal, whose All Things Digital subsidiary is reporting separately thatthe round may be led by a &quot;strategic party from Asia&quot;and would value Snapchat at $3.6bn.Both reports tip Chinese internet giant Tencent Holdings as the likely lead in the investment round, which would follow a$60m round in June 2013 that valued Snapchat at $800m. The startling rise in the company&apos;s valuation since then would match another social networking service, Pinterest, which hasjust raised $225m at a valuation of $3.8bn.Snapchat&apos;s growth has been meteoric. The app launched for Apple&apos;s iPhone in July 2011 as a way for people to send photos to friends that self-deleted after being viewed for a set period of time, alerting the sender if the recipient tried to capture a screenshot.The app launched for Android smartphones in October 2012, and by June 2013 had more than 5m daily active users sending 200m photos and videos every day. Since then, the latter figure hasincreased to more than 350m.Research published today by the Pew Research Center claims that 9% of all US mobile phone owners are using Snapchat, but that this percentage rises to 26% for 18- to 29-year-olds, reflecting its young demographic.As a comparison, Pew says that Facebook&apos;s Instagram app is now used by 18% of US mobile phone owners, and 43% of 18- to 29-year-olds.Instagram was acquired by Facebook for $1bnin 2012, but reports over the weekend suggest Facebook may have since made overtures to Snapchat too.The Wall Street Journal claims that Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg approached Snapchat &quot;to discuss an acquisition above $1bn&quot; but was &quot;rebuffed&quot; by its CEO Evan Spiegel. In late 2012,Facebook launched a direct competitor to Snapchat called Poke, but it did not take off.Snapchat does not currently sell advertising or charge its users to use the app, and while it&apos;s almost certain to remain free, Spiegel has talked publicly about his ambitions to add in-app purchases for additional features.&quot;We think we can build really cool stuff people want to pay for. The app is now a part of everyone&apos;s day-to-day lives. That means that they will – I at least would – pay for a more unique experience,&quot; hetold TechCrunch in June 2013.
Mozilla has released a free tool called Lightbeam that aims to help users of the Firefox browser see who is tracking their browsing habits.Lightbeam is a browser add-on that creates a real-time graph of all the tracking information that is deposited in the form of cookies on your computer as you browse the internet. It will enable users to identify third-party companies tracking their online behaviour for targeted advertising and other purposes.The launch was described as a &quot;watershed moment&quot; by Mozilla, which is hoping to capitalise on growing awareness among internet users of how their online activities are tracked for commercial purposes. The companystarted work on the add-on in 2012 under the name Collusion.Lightbeam is aimed at a mainstream audience, producing a real-time visualisation charting every site a user visits, and every third-party that operates on those sites that could be collecting and sharing user data. Mozilla is keen to stress that cookies in themselves aren&apos;t bad: it&apos;s just that internet users should be aware of who they&apos;re being used by, and for what purposes.&quot;Third parties are an integral part of the way the Internet works today. However, when we’re unable to understand the value these companies provide and make informed choices about their data collection practices, the result is a steady erosion of trust for all stakeholders,&quot; wrote Mozilla&apos;s privacy and public policy lead Alex Fowler in ablog post announcing Lightbeam&apos;s launch.Mozilla's Lightbeam allows users to identify which companies are tracking your online movements.Crowdsourcing a ‘Wizard of Oz moment’Lightbeam will also optionally send anonymised information about which sites and third parties are tracking your movements to Mozilla for inclusion in a crowd-sourced database of trackers, shining a light on the hidden world of data tracking and privacy.The add-on has already been welcomed by Till Faida, co-founder of popular ad-blocking browser extension Adblock Plus. “Mozilla’s latest Lightbeam tool represents a step forward in the fight for greater openness across the internet. We are delighted to see that the industry is waking up to the demand for a more user-determined internet experience,&quot; said Faida.&quot;It is crucial that web users are educated on their online rights and informed about what is actually happening when they spend time online. This ensures that they are the ones in control of their online experience,&quot; said Faida.Lightbeam will also help reveal the sources of images, scripts and adverts displayed on web pages that originate from third-party domains and service providers with the ultimate aim of identifying those that may not be necessary or welcome.Lightbeam is an open-source tool that is available toview on Githubanddownload direct from Mozilla.• In October, Facebook launched its first video ads on mobile
Google’s highly anticipated Nexus 5 Android smartphone is expected to be released in black and white models as early as the end of this week.The handset had already been leaked by Google&apos;sbrief accidental listing on the Google Play Store, but now well-connected Twitter account evleaks is claiming thatthe Nexus 5 will be released on 1 November. The account has been accurate in the past at predicting details of new Google devices.The latest tweet is accompanied by an image showing the phone with a white back, but otherwise matching the image posted byGoogle in October.The Nexus 5 is expected to run Google&apos;s next iteration of its Android software &quot;Kitkat&quot; and replace the popularNexus 4 smartphone, which was the work of a partnership between Google and LG to make a high-end smartphone running an unmodified version of the Android software, at an affordable price.There have been continuousdrip-like leaksof information surrounding the release, specifications and design of the Nexus 5, as well as Samsung’s Galaxy line of smartphones. Android is the most popular smartphone platform by some distance, but its flagship handsets are also now attracting similar level of pre-release interest as Apple&apos;s iPhones.• Afull video run-throughof an alleged leaked prototype Nexus 5 device claimed to show the smartphone running the Android &quot;Key Lime Pie&quot; software, which has since been renamed KitKat.
Are curved-screen smartphones the next big leap for mobile handsets, or a design quirk of 2013 that'll be chuckled at in the future? LG and Samsung are hoping for the former.Samsung unveiled its Galaxy Round smartphone earlier in October, with a 5.7-inch screen that curves from side to side. Nowrival LG has announced its G Flex, although its six-inch screen curves from top to bottom instead.The latter has been heavily leaked in recent weeks, but was confirmed this morning. It will go on sale in Korea in November with plans to launch it elsewhere in the world at a later date, although no UK release has been confirmed yet.Why a curved smartphone screen? LG says it aims to reduce the distance between your mouth and the microphone when holding the handset up to your ear, comparing it to traditional telephones in that respect.LG claims that the curvy form makes calls 3dB louder than flatter handsets, and is also rather ambitiously promising an "IMAX-like experience" when watching video on the device."The LG G Flex with its distinctive design, innovative hardware and consumer-centric UX represents the most significant development in the smartphone space since smartphone became part of our regular vocabulary," said LG's mobile president and CEO Dr. Jong-seok Park.LG is also shouting about the fact that it's not just the G Flex's screen that's curved: its battery is curved too. It also promises a "Self Healing" coating on the rear cover of the device, to see off "daily wear-and-tear scratches and nicks".The G Flex and Galaxy Round may be flaunting their curves in different directions, but the two Android smartphones will still be direct competitors. Samsung's handsetwent on sale in South Korea this month, although no international launches have yet been confirmed.The fierce rivalry between Samsung and LG can be seen in the early release of the G-Flex. Just before the Galaxy Round was announced, LG said it wasexpecting to launch its first curved-screen smartphone in 2014.
PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Batman: Arkham Origins (16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (44)VITA (2)12 (1)Grand Theft Auto V (18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (43)63 (2)Fifa 14 (3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (38)VITA (2)54 (3)Skylanders Swap Force (7+)Xbox 360 (39)Wii (36)PS3 (19)Wii U (4)25 (4)Pokemon X (7+)3DS (100)36 (5)Pokemon Y (7+)3DS (100)37 (7)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition (7+)Xbox 360 (100)188 (19)Lego The Lord Of The Rings (7+)DS (70)Xbox 360 (13)PS3 (7)Wii (6)359 (–)Moshi Monsters: Katsuma Unleashed (3+)DS (93)3DS (7)110 (9)Just Dance 2014 (3+)Wii (86)Xbox 360 (8)Wii U (4)PS3 (1)411 (10)Disney Infinity (7+)Xbox 360 (39)Wii (32)PS3 (18)Wii U (6)1012 (8)F1 2013 (3+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (40)PC (2)413 (6)Beyond Two Souls (16+)PS3 (100)314 (12)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes (7+)Xbox 360 (37)PS3 (18)Wii (14)3DS (12)6815 (–)Rocksmith 2014 Edition (12+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (32)116 (14)Max Payne 3 (18+)PS3 (56)Xbox 360 (44)PC (0)3117 (–)Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Blacklist (18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (33)PC (15)Wii U (1)918 (–)The Sims 3: Into The Future (12+)PC (100)119 (17)Animal Crossing: New Leaf (3+)3DS (101)1820 (11)Sonic: Lost World (7+)3DS (56)Wii U (44)2UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
The launch of a new version of Mac OS X is normally an exciting time for members of the development community.The pre-release software they have been using for the last few months will be opened up to the wider world, and they can start making the most of all the fancy new features to improve their applications.But with every release there is also a smaller group of developers who aren&apos;t quite so happy, because Apple&apos;s update renders their own apps obsolete.OS X Mavericks, released on Tuesday 22 October, includes a number of additional features which had previously been a key selling point for specific apps. From major system features like iCloud Keychain, which synchronises saved passwords across multiple devices, to smaller tweaks like the introduction of tabs in Finder windows, most of those are also offered by independent developers.&quot;We expected this to come,&quot; says one such developer, Antonin Hildebrand. Hildebrand is the chief programmer ofTotalFinder, an app which, among other things, adds tabbed browsing to the Finder. &quot;Tabs in Finder is such an obvious feature that it cannot be called duplication … I personally expected tabs in Finder to appear in Lion. Apple gave us a good two years to serve this niche.&quot;Hildebrand is resigned to the fact that Apple has knocked out a key selling point for his app – &quot;We will definitely lose many customers&quot; – but emphasises that TotalFinderstill has advantages over what Apple offers.We aren&apos;t worriedIt&apos;s a common refrain amongst developers placed in a sticky situation. &quot;There&apos;s a huge list of other stuff that Moom does that Mavericks doesn&apos;t,&quot; says Rob Griffiths, a partner at developersMany Tricks.Moom, one of the company&apos;s programs, is favoured by users who have multiple monitors and want to have a different app running full-screen on each – a feature now built in to Mavericks.&quot;You can lay out your windows as you like, save that layout, and call it up when you wish. You can even have the layout activate automatically when you add or remove a display, as many do with laptops … I think you get the idea: we&apos;re not worried about Mavericks impacting Moom in any negative way.&quot;Some developers are even more upbeat, arguing that Apple moving onto their turf will be an overall positive. &quot;To be honest, we&apos;re pretty excited Apple is talking about strong passwords again,&quot; says David Chartier, fromAgileBits, developers of1Password. With iCloud Keychain, Apple seems to be on the cusp of taking much of AgileBits&apos; business, but Chartier doesn&apos;t see it that way.&quot;The good news is that the world listens when Apple speaks, so now the world is listening to the need for strong, unique passwords. As they say, a rising tide lifts all ships.&quot;Like Hildebrand and Griffiths, Chartier emphasises his company&apos;s unique additions. 1Password works with browsers other than Safari, operating systems other than Mac OS, and offers features beyond just password syncing. &quot;1Password is truly a full-featured identity manager with features like Secure Notes, Multiple &amp; Shared Vaults, and Wi-Fi Sync, a way to remain in complete control of your data so it never leaves your network or ends up in the cloud.&quot;SherlockedAll three developers are in a position common enough that it even has a name in the community. They have been &quot;sherlocked&quot;.The term comes from 2002, when Apple updated Sherlock, an app built into OS X which searched users&apos; computers and the web for them. Users noticed similarities between the new version 3.0 and Watson, a competing program developed by Karelia Software.&quot;Many users have contacted Karelia, congratulating us on Apple ‘buying out’ Watson. However, Karelia Software was not involved in any aspect of Sherlock 3, other than serving as … shall we say … inspiration,&quot;the company wrote at the time. But they were sanguine.&quot;With the addition of the new Google searching Tool for Watson – much more useful than the web-searching feature that is part of Sherlock 3 – we are confident that Watson will continue to be the market leader in web services, in spite of Sherlock 3.&quot;Sadly, Watson rapidly lost market share, and in 2004, Karelia discontinued the software.But not every program duplicated by Apple suffers the same fate. In 2011, the company upgraded its mobile operating system to iOS 5, and included a new feature called Reading List. Allowing users to save articles to read offline across multiple devices, it looked sure to put paid to the burgeoning field of ‘read-later’ apps, such as Instapaper, Read It Later (now Pocket), and Readability.Instead, Chartier&apos;s prediction came true. Users, having been introduced to the concept of saving an item and reading it at their leisure, rapidly outgrew the tools Apple offered, and switched to dedicated apps. Pocket, which had4.5 million users in April 2012, now boastsover 10 million.What makes the difference? Why did Watson die while Pocket soared?It helps if Apple&apos;s intervention into a field increases awareness of it, rather than simply doing a job previously done by others. When the company started shipping the Mail app with Macs in 2001, few will have seen it and been inspired to start using email, instead merely switching from previous paid apps to the free option.But even if Apple does introduce users to a new type of program, that counts for nothing if developers can&apos;t offer a reason to upgrade. &quot;One example: is that anyone can use QuickTime to record screen movies in Mountain Lion or Mavericks … yet ScreenFlow is doing a great business, because they offer so much more,&quot; says Griffiths. &quot;In general, you&apos;ve got to offer a compelling feature that people feel is worth paying for. That&apos;s a tough thing to do, but some have managed to do quite well with it.&quot;•It&apos;s hard to compete against free. It&apos;s even harder when Apple encourages piracy.
Apple's newMac Prois its most powerful tower desktop computer to date, but it comes with a price tag to match: it will cost $3,000 (£1,850) when it goes on sale later in the year.The device's round, black exterior – memorably described by CNET asresembling "Darth Vader's bin"when it was unveiled at the WWDC show in June – has been a big talking point. But what if you want it in another colour. Say... red?There's a model for that, but the price is even more eye-watering: between $40,000 and $60,000. Apple's senior vice president of design Jony Ive and designer Marc Newson have teamed up once again to create a customised device in aid of charity (RED).Thered Mac Pro will go under the hammer at Sotheby'son 23 November, and is expected to fetch anywhere between $40,000 and $60,000 at auction.Ive and Newson have worked on a range of products for the auction, including a pair ofsolid rose gold earpods, adeskand aDom Pérignon magnum cooler.The auction, which the pair organised with U2's Bono, will benefit research into AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhat's up with BBM's Android reviews? &gt;&gt; Terence Eden's BlogAfter all the obviously duplicate reviews:One of Google's many ideas to combat review fraud was to tie reviews to Google+ profiles. It should be possible to pick out anyone who left one of these fake reviews and remove their rankings from the Play store for all apps.I can't help but wonder if there is a better way than stars and reviews for measuring an app's worth? Could Google report on how many people have kept the app installed, or how often it's used, or how long it is used for, whether people share the app? All of these, of course, could be gamed - but it would be much harder for a spammer to convince someone to actually regularly use an app.Good idea.TVs can't be smart. so stop trying to nake it happen &gt;&gt; Wired.comGary Myer:And although the Smart TV Alliance is attempting to create an industry standard platform, the core tenet of integration with content is still missing. For example, a common social environment for sharing, discussing (and ultimately creating) TV programming will be impossible with random-format platforms. Content providers and developers want a large installed base of devices before they create content for a platform.Without an industry standard, various "flavors" of Android-based smart TV platforms will be created, along with the iOS ecosystem, which creates a dilemma for the app/content developers. Just look at the video game industry.Myer used to be president of Sony Digital Media in the US, and before that worked at DirecTV. (Thanks #ClarkeViper for the link.)The battle for power on the internet &gt;&gt; The AtlanticBruce Schneier remembers when it was all fields:bigger changes seemed inevitable. Digital cash would undermine national sovereignty. Citizen journalism would topple traditional media, corporate PR, and political parties. Easy digital copying would destroy the traditional movie and music industries. Web marketing would allow even the smallest companies to compete against corporate giants. It really would be a new world order.This was a utopian vision, but some of it did come to pass. Internet marketing has transformed commerce. The entertainment industries have been transformed by things like MySpace and YouTube, and are now more open to outsiders. Mass media has changed dramatically, and some of the most influential people in the media have come from the blogging world. There are new ways to organize politically and run elections. Crowdfunding has made tens of thousands of projects possible to finance, and crowdsourcing made more types of projects possible. Facebook and Twitter really did help topple governments.But that is just one side of the Internet's disruptive character. The Internet has emboldened traditional power as well.Graham's Hierarchy of Disagreement &gt;&gt; Wikipedia, the free encyclopediaHang on, why is the bit at the bottom wider than the top one?Hackers compromise official PHP website, infect visitors with malware (updated) &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaAccording to a security researcher at Kaspersky Lab, Thursday's compromise caused some php.net visitors todownload "Tepfer," a trojan spawned by the Magnitude Exploit Kit. At the time of the php.net attacks, the malware wasdetected by only five of 47 antivirus programs. An analysis of the pcap file suggests the malware attack worked by exploiting a vulnerability in Adobe Flash, although it's possible that some victims were targeted by attacks that exploited Java, Internet Explorer, or other applications, Martijn Grooten, a security researcher for Virus Bulletin, told Ars.Windows Phone users report excessive data use, built-in Twitter feature to blame &lt;&lt; The VergeTom Warren:Microsoft has confirmed that there's an issue with its built-in Twitter feature that could result in unexpected data usage. The issue stems from a Twitter back-end change that has caused Windows Phones to re-download the profile images for Twitter contacts frequently. Twitter is currently transitioning its profile pictures from one server to another, and The Verge discovered the data use problem nearly a week ago and reported it to the software giant.On one of our own Windows Phone devices we found that the People hub, the section that hosts the built-in Twitter client, had used over 300MB of mobile data and over 3GB of Wi-Fi data in just under a week…Microsoft is working to address the issue, but as it's a backend Twitter change the company is limited in how it can best address it. Removing a Twitter account from a Windows Phone will prevent the excessive data use fully until Twitter has completed its server migration in the coming weeks. Microsoft has also implemented a change to only sync Twitter accounts once a day to reduce the impact.Ouch.Previously it was Yahoo email.They may have the money, but we have the tools of technology. &gt;&gt; MediumJames Darling, currently working in the civil service, with a powerful (and personal) point of view:I have a suspicion. I suspect that the idea of the public sector not only doing something well but better than most of the private sector offends them. Turns out the best way to piss off market libertarians is to make government work.Sure, I hear moans from Silicon Roundabout that the government is sucking up all the best talent in London, but while they're saying that, GOV.UK increased signups to the organ donations register by 10,000 every month with just a bit of clever A/B testing as a side project. I could be working on your socially network website that tries to convince parents that fruitshoot isn't awful for their kids (I have actually done that), or I could be doing what I'm doing now, helping bring real change to the office of the public guardian so they can do their job better.Lui, the tablet and Emma &gt;&gt; VimeoFrench TV commercial. C'est amusant.Stephen Elop says he's ready for change at Microsoft &gt;&gt; EngadgetElop talks RT and more in an intriguing (if short) interview:When asked what the next milestone application would be, Elop looked at the bigger picture instead."The big moves in technology tend to come when there's a major change in the user interaction model, how you interact with the device," Elop said, referring to the impact of the Xerox Star on the windowed UI and the iPhone on the touch interface. "At a certain point, those new user interaction models are figured out and take hold, and that heralds a whole new generation of experiences. And of course, we're all working vigorously on those types of things, and you'll see us work towards those in the future."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Monday! Woohoo!
Customers on O2's mobile network will get early access to Lady Gaga's new album ARTPOP, through a deal struck between the operator and label Polydor Records.The album will be made available through theO2 Tracksmusic app from 5 November, six days before its official release date. It's part of a wider partnership that will see Gaga also appearing in a TV ad for O2.It's a big coup for O2 Tracks, which was launched in February as a partnership between O2 and British startup MusicQubed. The £1-a-week app is available for Android, iPhone, Windows Phone and BlackBerry smartphones, and enables people to download each week's Top 40 singles chart to their handset.News of the exclusive may come as a surprise to fans who were expecting ARTPOP to make its first appearance within Lady Gaga's own official app for the album, which wasfirst announced by the star in September 2012as "the most major way to fully immerse yourself in ARTPOP".In July, apost on Gaga's Facebook pagesuggested that the app would be pre-orderable from 1 September alongside the album, although that launch date has slipped considerably for the ambitious project:"Altering the human experience with social media, we bring ARTculture into POP in a reverse Warholian expedition.Exploring Gaga's existence as a cultural interface, the user will share in the 'adrenaline of fame; as they build and share their own projects, chat with one another, and watch in real-time on a virtual globe as ARTPOP explodes onto the physical and virtual universe at once on November 11, our 'BIG BANG!' On this day, HAUS OF GAGA venges with forte to bring the music industry into a new age: an age where art drives pop, and the artist once again is in control of the 'icon'."In the UK at least, it seems that ARTPOP's big pre-release promotional push will be coming through a more traditional marketing deal with a mobile operator. O2 is describing the deal as "exclusive", which suggests the album won't also be available for pre-release stream on iTunes, Spotify or other digital music services – in the UK at least.It's not exclusive to O2 customers though: O2 Tracks is available to all networks in the UK, although people on O2 get an eight-week free trial, versus two weeks for everyone else. ARTPOP is likely to spur a big wave of signups for the service, whichO2 has already spent £7.3m marketing in 2013.In July, MusicQubed said thatthe app had signed up more than 500,000 usersin its first five months, who had averaged more than 55 minutes a day of listening each. The company didn't say how many had converted to paying subscribers once their free trials finished.Lady Gaga is not the first big music star to make a new album available early to mobile customers. In June,Jay-Z struck a deal with Samsungto give away 1m early copies of his Magna Carta Holy Grail album to fans who downloaded an Android app.
Price from £11,255MPG 53.3Top speed 102mphWhen Baxter, an old friend, was first introduced to the gruff Yorkshireman who would one day be his father-in-law, the response was abrupt. "Baxter!" he said. "Dog's name in't it?" But slowly he warmed to his future son-in-law – as a wedding gift he gave him a dog tag engraved with the word Baxter. Now the human-as-dog naming trend has gone into reverse with half the dogs in my local park answering to human names. My own dog, Minty (what? She's white) enjoys romping around with Gary the Labrador and Adrian the Staffie. Whatever next? Are we going to start giving human names to cars? Exactly. MeetAdam the Vauxhall.Adam follows in the footsteps of a new breed of premium superminis that have put hipster design at the core of their being – the Fiat 500, Citroën's DS3, Audi's A1 and, of course, the Mini. But there's nothing retro about Adam. He's a&nbsp;teen dream of puppy-like playfulness; a riot of endless options and choices. The online "configurator" offers up to 30,000 variations in everything from wheels to mirror covers. You can even order internal ambient lighting which rotates through seven shades.Mellow yellow: the new Adam can be modified in up to 30,000 different ways.Based on Vauxhall's bestselling Corsa, Adam is a little shorter and a&nbsp;little wider – he's wider physically and socially. From here it all starts to get a bit wacky. The three different trim levels are called Adam Jam, Adam Glam or Adam Slam. The first is for the "funky and fashionable", the second for "turning heads" and the third is if you are "born to be wild". If you are, say, "nice" or "morbidly shy" then, sorry, Adam doesn't want to know you.Once you've selected your trim level, the party really kicks off. Take colour, for instance. You can't simply opt for white because that is called Saturday White Fever. Grey! Surely you mean The Greyfather? Yellow! That'll be James Blonde, and the worst (or best if you are Mr Fun) is orange, which is called Papa Don't Peach. It's exhausting, but it works. I&nbsp;have never before scrolled along the entire length of a&nbsp;manufacturer's colour bar to see what every shade was called – has anyone? And the relentless upbeatness is, finally, cheering. You just have to go with it…Inside, Adam is roomier than you'd think; he has a&nbsp;decent back seat. His boot is deep and narrow, perfect for an upright suitcase, but irritating for just about everything else. He comes with a&nbsp;choice of engines (of course he does), but the 1.2 petrol I tested was right for the job. Zippy and economical, it more than held its own around town, which is what Adam is all about. On the open road Adam coped, but you'd think twice before a long trip. Unless you're young, in which case you'll be having fun so you won't mind.Maybe, with all this personalisation, Vauxhall should also launch an Eve for their women customers? Or an "insert name here" for the rest of us. If my name was Adam I'd definitely buy one…Inspiring the engineers of tomorrowPoll position: Leena Gade is the first woman engineer to win Le Mans.A leading race engineer forAudi Sport Team Joest, Leena Gade is an ambassador forTomorrow's Engineers Week 2013, a government and industry campaign running from 4-8 November to encourage young people to pursue engineering careers. Having made history in 2011 by becoming the first woman engineer to win the24 Hours Le Mansrace, Leena Gade is sharing her story to challenge outdated perceptions of engineering. She says: "I want to encourage girls in particular to pick the right subjects for a career in engineering. It can bring so many amazing opportunities. My job allows me to travel the world and work with the best engineers and LMP1 cars the industry has to offer. There's no better feeling than winning a race because you and your team were one step ahead of the opposition."Visittomorrowsengineers.org.ukfor more information.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Adventure games are largely below the radar for many players now – a shame, since some, such asGoodbye, Deponia, are real gems. This trilogy-capping entry sees bumbling "hero" Rufus and his allies trying to save the titular garbage planet from obliteration. The point-and-click interface is well utilised, with no "pixel hunting" for imperceptible areas in order to progress, while the puzzles offer a nice mental workout without becoming infuriating.However, there is a tendency to encounter rogue elements of those puzzles before they need to be solved for the story, which can be somewhat distracting. Beneath its bold animated visuals and sometimes crass humour,Deponiahides unexpected depth, with unsubtle yet biting commentary on class divisions. A surprisingly engaging series, brought to a fine conclusion.
The creators ofSkylanders: Swap Forceare operating in an impossible place where the physical and digital realms coexist. As with its forebears, the game disk is packaged with a trio of real-world, impressive-quality action figures and a "Portal of Power" which plunges them into the game. The Portal is a plastic pedestal that can be plugged into the console. When one of the bundled figurines is placed on it, their likeness immediately appears in-game as a playable character.It's a surprisingly magical process, even for adults far outside the target age demographic.Swap Force's new trick is that some of the toys can be divided and reassembled with other Skylanders, creating new characters to toss into the game. As with the series' former iterations, many more figurines that open new gameplay elements are available separately.Behind that core system exists a polished fantasy-themed kids' game. At worst, mechanically it's familiar, offering a mix of exploration, combat, item-collecting and puzzle-solving. But each of those elements is realised with flair, and the production values – from the visuals and audio to the character performances and world design – are a triumph, trumping typical games built for youngsters.
Being able to put your arm around the shoulder of a friend who is upset and giving them a squeeze may not seem like a significant skill, but it is. Most humans are so good at judging the level of force they exert on others that accidently crushing or bashing someone in such a situation is rarely a problem. For amputees fitted with prostheses such things are not so easy. What they need, of course is that their artificial limbs should have a sense of touch. And that may soon be possible, thanks to some astonishing experiments carried out by a group based at the University of Chicago.Prosthetic limbs have been going through a bit of a revolution of late. It was not that long ago that the best an amputee could hope for was a cable-controlled pincer hook. Now a person who loses a hand can get a robotic replacement with fully working fingers that allows them to grip and manipulate objects and manage complicated tasks like tying shoelaces  or dealing playing cards. This rapid development has been a by-product of the telecommunications revolution, which by making the smartphone a mass-market item has leveraged both the production of cheap superfast silicon chips, and the price of the lithium batteries used to power them. The computer processors in robotic prostheses are used to monitor the electrical signals of the arm muscles and to translate them into the mechanical movement of joints and fingers of the prosthetic hand, while the lightweight battery provides the considerable power needed (see the i-limb). But there is one aspect of the smartphone that has not yet been incorporated into prosthetic limbs: touch sensitivity.The screens of almost all smartphones have a sense of touch,  bestowed on them by a transparent conducting layer made of indium tin oxide, which is continuously monitored by the chip inside the phone. When it detects changes in the electrical activity of that layer, the processor checks to see if they match those of a human finger and reacts accordingly. Thus, as you move your finger on the screen you can scroll a webpage or flick through emails. Importantly, the movement you see on the screen matches what you feel in your hand.Prosthetic fingers and thumbs do not have a sense of touch, and so amputees have to rely on their visual sense to guide the forces exerted by their prosthetic hands. This is not only inconvenient but annoying, because force feedback, as it is called, is what gives the human sense of touch such sophistication. It is what allows us to gently clink champagne glasses without crushing them, give someone a passionate kiss without bruising them, or increase the grip on a box slipping out of our grasp. In each case we use force feedback to guide our actions, a skill we all learnt the hard way as infants, smashing and crashing our way through childhood.To give prosthetic hands such force feedback first requires them to be able to detect force.  The technology that works on the flat and hard mobile phone screens has to be adapted to the soft, deformable and multiple curved surfaces of a prosthesis – a considerable challenge. Many scientists from around the world are working on developing such materials, including  myself, as part of theLight.Touch.Mattersteam.We are developing a mouldable plastic material containing piezoelectric powder that can sense pressure at any point on the surface by turning it into an electric voltage. It is recognised, however, that even if we succeed in detecting the pressure associated with contact, there is a bigger hurdle to overcome. The electric signals then have to be translated into the physiological language of the body. In other words, these electric voltages have to be plugged into the nervous system and interpreted in the brain as a sense of touch. The feasibility of achieving this was in doubt until a Chicago University research group had a go at doing it and succeeded.The Chicago scientists reportedresults of experimentsin which electrodes were attached to the nerves of a monkey's hand and, purely by manipulating the voltages, they were able to replicate the perception of physical pressure associated with holding things, showing that the brain is interpreting the simulated nerve signals as touch. This is astounding because it indicates that integrating prostheses into the nervous system is possible, and so opening the door to robotic devices with force feedback and touch sensitivity. The technology has wider implications, since our sense of touch is deeply associated with our feeling of embodiment. You only have to recall the last time you slept awkwardly and woke up with a "dead arm" to appreciate this. If prostheses gain a sense of touch, their philosophical status as "lifeless" may have to be&nbsp;revised.
The Scooby Doo of video game crime-solving is back after five years.Dual Destiniesis the latest episode in the popular interactive visual-novel series and casts players as investigative attorneys Phoenix Wright, Apollo Justice and new sidekick Athena Cykes on a variety of fantastical cases.Along with a lower £19.99 price tag and download-only availability,Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorneyis visually beautiful in its first outing on the Nintendo 3DS. New psychoanalytical interactions refresh game-play and bring emotions to bear on investigations. Each of the five cases presents not only a wonderfully caricatured cast of victims and suspects but also an intricate web of clues, statements and crime scenes for players to decipher. This is another objectionless outing for Wright.
Imagine recovering from an operation without fear of a post-op infection from a drug-resistant super-bug. Imagine that this is because of a tiny electronic device left behind when they sewed you back up, which monitors the wound, picks up signs of infection, administers a specific amount of heat to the right area and then, job done, disappears into your bodily fluids.Imagine, too, an oil spill clean-up being monitored by 100,000 sensors dropped from a plane that would dissolve into the water when it was all over. Or a no-longer-loved smartphone that could actually dissolve down the sink rather than clog up your desk drawer.Then imagine what the military could do with these so-called born-to-die devices. How about electronic eyes and ears that couldbe deployed for black ops in a war zone and then be triggered to dissolve when their mission was over or when they were about to be discovered?And finally, realise that this isn't science fiction from Orson Scott Card, the writer ofEnder's Game, but rather current tech funded by Darpa, the Pentagon's Defence Advanced Research Project Agency, who are the nice people working hard to make autonomous killer robots a living nightmare.In one video of this born-to-die technology, when water drops hit the fingernail-sized integrated circuit its see-through silk substrate quickly starts to curl up, causing the strands of silicon and magnesium that make up its circuits to peel away. After just one minute, what had been a fully functioning board, with transistors, diodes and capacitors, is now just a long, thin, dirty strand of gunk.In another video, it takes just two hours for the integrated circuit to dissolve in a glass of water.In 2012 a transient device was implanted in the body of a mouse and powered wirelessly. The device was able to produce enough heat to kill off the bacteria that cause post-surgery infections. It lasted two weeks and then dissolved into the mouse's bodily fluids with no obvious side-effects for the mouse.Now, Professor John A Rogers believes that we may be only "a year or two away" from testing biodegradable electronics in humans, albeit in surface wounds (for which the regulations are lighter). Rogers is head of theJohn Rogers Research Groupat the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, and one of the leading researchers into the development of these born-to-die electronic devices. It is his and his colleagues' work that is featured in the videos.While Rogers is "not allowed to say anything" about his work for Darpa, which began funding his research in 2008, other than that "we have done some amazing demonstrations" for them, he does confess that "I did eat one device, and I didn't feel a thing. It just dissolved in my mouth."Reading this on mobile? Click here to watch videoFor Rogers, "today's electronics are remarkable feats of engineering" as they are "designed to last forever" with no loss of performance. "However," he says, "when we looked to the future we realised that there was an opportunity for a new electronics – transient electronics – that might function properly for a finite amount of time and then disappear."However, there are a number of significant challenges that Rogers has to overcome, including trying to work out whether having a piece of electronics that dissolves in our bodies harms our health. There is even the tricky issue of how a water-soluble piece of technology can be mass-produced in a production process that conventionally uses a lot of water. Beyond that, there is the power problem: wireless power transmission is good for devices near, or on, the body surface but not so useful when they have to be implanted deepinthe body.Further ahead lies another thorny problem, and one that is vital for the widespread use of the technology: how to get these devices to die on demand – and in substances other than water, so that the Pentagon doesn't have to wait for rain before the evidence of its covert work disappears.Rogers has tried to get round many of the problems that hold up  innovative new technologies by trying to reuse "as much as possible of the stuff that is already out there for semiconductor manufacture" for the mass production of his transient electronics devices. He has also tried to use materials that already have FDA approval to cut out more potential hold-ups.For example, the integrated circuit shown in the videos uses slices of silicon (silicon nanomembranes) so thin that they will dissolve in water; magnesium rather than copper as the conductor (since magnesium is non-toxic in small quantities and, indeed, an essential nutrient in the human body); and layers of silk to encase the whole device. Its lifespan is determined by the thickness of this silk substrate. The device is wirelessly coupled with an external power source, but in the future it might be powered by the movement of the body, and even have its transience activated remotely.Other materials, including zinc oxide and bioresorbable polymers already FDA-approved, can work in transient technology as well, giving Rogers "a wide palette of materials to work from"."Our first attempt at transience was a bit of a hack," he says, "in the sense that the devices we built were small and thin, but only partially transient. We then found ourselves being forced to think about things like the minimum lethal dose of transistors."John A Rogers of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is one of leading pioneers in born-to-die technology. Photograph: Michael J Granse"The actual eureka moment came," he adds, "when we had full transience in everything."Now he is pretty confident that he has materials that can make transient electronics do "meaningful things".While Rogers has had "some amazing first demonstrations", says Michael McAlpine, assistant professor of aerospace engineering at Princeton, the challenge is, he believes, to build a transient device "where there aren't just, say, 10 transistors but the billion that you find on a real chip". Then, for McAlpine, there is also the small matter of how well you can control exactly when the sensors will live or die, which "is critical for the applications" envisaged for the technology. This is called tunability: the ability to decide when the device will dissolve "so you can keep it for as long as you want".Professor Michael Dickey, of the faculty of engineering at North Carolina State University, says Rogers's achievement is "pretty remarkable". One of the "most elegant things" is trying to use conventional materials in an unconventional way so that transient devices can be made in a bog-standard electronics factory. "Then manufacture them very thin so they are easier to make go away. When you work on very thin substrates you can do all sorts of neat things that have been impossible to do with a silicon chip." For Dickey, the ability to apply this born-to-die technology to more complex tasks isn't too much of an issue as "they are not competing with Intel in terms of sophistication of the electronics". Yet, says Dickey, "the devil could be in the detail. Every time you go into a new area there is no road map for you to follow." In particular, "they didn't demonstrate in their original work" that there could be triggers other than water for the device to dissolve in. Triggers such as a remote signal are particularly important for its wider application, whether monitoring an oil spill or movements on a battlefield."This concept is incredibly novel and a big deal," says Teri W Odom, professor of chemistry and of materials science and engineering at Northwestern University, Illinois. However, she thinks that "there are many design constraints" that have to be overcome before they can breathe life into the technology, such as "the dissolution rates of the layers, the types of materials used to conduct electricity, and the types of materials that can be used in the transistors. One limitation could be whether it would be possible to build in a power source on the electronics themselves instead of relying on external sources".Like Dickey, Odom feels that worries over the complexity of these born-to-die devices are "a straw man" as "the real sweet spot" for the technology are low-powered devices that are built to perform a specific function. However, she does warn that "anything in the biomedical arena takes time – in the order of 10 years for a device. Other applications like sensors to detect temperatures of structures like bridges might take less time."While Rogers accepts that significant challenges remain, they are trying to adapt production lines "that have been designed to manufacture technology that lasts for ever" to make something that might die after two weeks. He argues that as yet unpublished research will demonstrate that transience in dry conditions is possible and that he "can even trigger dissolution remotely, using a radio link". As well as remote control, other triggers Rogers says are possible are "mechanical shocks, temperature change, light exposure and chemical-biological", all of which are more suitable for battlefield conditions or a pollution incident than water. The lab has also developed batteries for transient devices that can dissolve in bodily fluids so they can operate more independently. Quietly confident, he states: "it is still very early stages, but we are very optimistic that transient electronics will represent a big breakthrough".For Michael Dickey the wider success of this born-to-die technology beyond the "bioresorbable stuff, which is a big deal" may well come down to the men in uniform. "The military are very interested in it and if they embrace it then it might become a much bigger deal, as it is an enabling idea whose wider significance just depends on how creative people are at using it."
