"Forget the mall. Forget the movies. Forget school. Forget even AOL. If you're a teen in America today, the place to be is the social networking site MySpace, which has virtually exploded in the past few months. ... In only two years, MySpace has shot from zero to 47.3 million members, say founders Chris DeWolfe, 39, and Tom Anderson, 29. They launched MySpace in January 2004. In July Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. bought MySpace for $580 million," reportsUSA Today.It's now replacing the ritual of giving out phone numbers or even e-mail addresses."MySpace has gotten to the point where instead of 'What is your phone number?' it's like 'What is your MySpace profile?' " says [Michael Edwards, a high school senior from San Diego]. "Like every single person has one. It's like 'Oh, what's your MySpace page?' "
It's been a rather telling week in the battle between the DS and PSP. While Howard Stringer, Chairman and CEO of Sony Corp has been atCES&lt;/&gt;,talking upPSP's compatibility with the new Location Free TV technology, and boasting about the re-launch of the company's Connect service, DS has been dominating the game charts in Japan, occupying eight places in the top ten.It's clear both companies are expanding their remit, courting the massmarket - y'know the modern obessions - but they're going about it in very different ways. Sony is being Microsoft, picturing a future of connected entertainment streams, of digital hubs and downloadable content. Nintendo is producing games like DS Training For Adults: Work Your Brain, Brain Training 2 and Gentle Brain Exercises - simple IQ games that are selling in their hundreds of thousands.Here, in convenient minature form, we have a preview of the coming battle, perhaps the deciding battle for the industry. It will be a battle of emphasis between creating games that people want to play and creating sexy technologies that people want to own. Between developing interesting content and delivering content in an interesting way. In the end, I don't think it'll be much of a scrap - the digital hub vision will win out because a lot of big companieswantit to win out - they'll seduce us into thinking that living room servers are cool, and that mobile extensions of those servers are even cooler. And itisan enticing vision - our whole lives turned into iTunes.But for now, DS with its funny little puzzle games, has caught the imagination of the world's most techno-jaded culture. Content is holding out. It feels like the Rorke's Drift of videogaming.
About 10 years ago a friend's dad's car was broken into. They took his stereo and mobile phone (rare in those days), but left the tapes that were on the front seat . Considering these includedDolly Parton'sGreatest Hits and Status Quo's first album you can understand why.A similar thing happened last week when a friend - not the same, though if it was I'd start getting worried - had his house burgled. Along with his iPod and other shiny gadgets they took his PS2 and Xbox plus all the games. Gutted? Hang 'em and flog 'em were two printable responses. There was one consolation though - they left his Gamecube. Yes, they took everything else, including a tatty copy of FIFA-bloody-Street, but left Nintendo's console right where it was. Sadly this spoke volumes. The Gamecube is really only of value to the very young or the very committed - to everyone else, including thieves, retail, and the average gamer it is essentially dead. AndTwilight Princessaside, they are unfortunately right. The moral? Er, don't bother insuring your Gamecube?
ThinkSecret has arumour roundup....
IFI Patent Intelligence has just issued its annual compilation of thetop US patent winners. IBM came top for the 13th straight year, but "saw a decline of more than 9% with 302 fewer patents than in 2004. At 2,972 patents, IBM's annual total falls below the 3,000 mark for the first time since 2001. Canon and Hewlett-Packard come in at number 2 and 3 respectively, but well below IBM," says the company.While most companies are seeing a dip in patent activity there are several notable gainers including Microsoft, which is up more than 18 percent; Broadcom, up more than 38 percent; and Freescale Semiconductor, up a remarkable 88 percent over the 2004 counts.Intel came seventh (1,551 patents), Sony 11th (1,149), Microsoft 18th (746), and Sun 23rd (654).
The IGDA crew have opened up the floodgates and are asking all full-members to head tothis linkto nominate your choices for a whole slew of categories in the race to theGame Developers Choice Awards. If you have an opinion about the best game of 2005, the number one studio or the greatest innovation, please tell them, not us.You have until 13 January. After that, people like me (and the otherAwards board members) will decide who walks away with coveted glass trophies at this year's Game Developers Conference in San Jose, CA.In other awards news, theBloggies nomination processcloses today, so if you feel inclines to nod to any of theGuardian Unlimited blogs, please do feel free.
Over at WinSupersite, Paul Thurrott hasreviewed the Google Pack software bundle(Windows only), and is not impressed. It's obviously a ragbag of applications, but some of them are out of date, and it doesn't deliver the claimed convenience. He says:though Google goes to great pains to tout how each application in Google Pack is free, it's worth noting that many of these applications feature annoying upgrade advertisements aimed at getting you to purchase the full versions. They're limited in other ways too, as I'll describe below. But most problematic, many of these applications aren't even up-to-date. For example, the free version of Norton Antivirus includes virus definitions that are, as of this writing, an astonishing four months out of date. And the spyware definitions in Ad-Aware SE were over 120 days out of date when I installed that application. That's simply irresponsible. The sheer amount of work that a user needs to perform in order to make sure that each application Google provides is updated completely contradicts the benefits of having an integrated installer with "only one license agreement – and no wizards." That's only true until you actually try to use any of these applications.You will also notice, he writes, that "your desktop, Quick Launch toolbar, and system tray begin filling up with an unwelcome number of icons. By the time this thing is done, your PC will look like the victim of a nasty spyware attack."After reviewing the various apps, Thurrott concludes:Google Pack is still in beta, so the more glaring issues can be fixed by a final release, if there is one. But this initial version of Google Pack is an embarrassment to the company. It's just a mess.
"I worry that search engines are sucking out too much of the Web's value, acting as leeches on companies that create the very source materials the search engines index," writes Jakob Nielsen in his latestAlertbox."We've known since AltaVista's launch in 1995 that search is one of the Web's most important services. Users rely on search to find what they want among the teeming masses of pages. Recently, however, people have begun using search engines as answer engines to directly access what they want -- often without truly engaging with the websites that provide (and pay for) the services."Free search is fine, of course, if it sends you visitors, but Jakob argues that "paid search confiscates too much of a website's value".The solution is, he says, to keep visitors coming back to your site without them clicking on expensive ads.
The UK's top selling games in 2005 were:1 FIFA 06- EA Sports 2 Pro Evolution Soccer 5 - Konami 3 Need for Speed: Most Wanted - EA Games 4 Gran Turismo 4 - Sony Computer Entertainment 5 Star Wars EP III: Revenge of the Sith - LucasArts 6 FIFA Street - EA Sports 7 Star Wars: Battlefront II - LucasArts 8 Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas - Rockstar 9 King Kong: Official Game of the Movie - Ubisoft 10 The Sims 2 - EA GamesNo real surprises, although the terrible Star Wars Ep III and FIFA Street are the least deserving of their places. But the year's lack of real blockbusters was proven by the continuing sales success of San Andreas and Sims 2, both of which were released in 2004. Perhaps the biggest surprise were the overall sales figures - 2005 was a record year in the UK, with all formats sales totalling £1.35 billion, 0.7% per cent up on 2004. But don't be fooled by this.Considering that we didn't have PSP or DS in 2004, the figures mask a sales slump. Almost every big title in Q4 has sold less than expected - there have certainly been some sweaty shirts in the EA and Activision boardrooms.The reasons for the downturn are fairly obvious. It's partly due to lack of excitement - a sequence of pallid rushed sequels didn't excite enough people - and partly due to the 360. The lack of supply meant many people spent their money outside the games industry. There were other factors too. The success of online games like World of Warcraft has almost certainly had an impact on the number of games bought. Of course, this is all cyclical and in 18 months sales will be booming. Chances are FIFA 08 will top the 2007 sales list as well.
As an aside to Greg'sHighbury post(and the debate going on beneath it about the state of the contemporary games magazine) it's clear that mainstream publications are taking an increasing interest in videogames. Once, you'd get a few mens mags and pop rags running obligatory reviews pages, but more and more we're seeing considered, comparatively in-depth coverage.And in return, videogame publishers - always on the look out for mass market credibility - are courting the mainstream magazines. Here's arecent example, courtesy of Joystiq.com: Nintendo recently invitedNational Geographic Kids magazineto take a look at the Revolution controller over in Tokyo. The resulting article talks about using the crazy device as a wand in Zelda and as drumsticks in Donkey Konga...Next step - Glamour considers which handheld console looks best with this Spring's Audrey Hepburn-inspired cropped jackets and Carolina Herrera bows...
How do you back up your e-mail? This is a fairly common question, and I don't have a good answer. Well, I have the sandard answer, which is to back up the email files. However, I'm generally not impressed by e-mail software's database and search capabilities, and there are other problems -- people change their e-mail software, and their PCs, and often they use more than one type of e-mail service.I think the best solution is to move e-mail to a separate archive designed for the job, and this also enables e-mail from different services to be consolidated. If you do this, which program do you use?Do you have a better solution? Is there a free solution?I tackled this problem in the early 90s, and arrived atAskSam, partly because it had import filters for CompuServe e-mail. I'd be interested to hear if anyone else has tried it. I'd also be particularly interested if anyone is using Filemaker.
Tristan Louis has produceda round up of the main offeringsfrom the major players, putting the Google Video Store in context. It's not complete, of course -- it doesn't include the Sony DRM, for example, or independent offerings such as Starz and its new Vongo service. And it does include AOL, which is only a major portal for the (shrinking) number of AOL users.Mqanwhile Gary Price at Search Engine Watch has a round-up ofthe online video servicesalready available in the US.
PC World.com has a round-up ofCore Duo notebooksunveiled at CES by Acer, Compaq/HP, Dell, Gateway, Toshiba etc. There will, of course, be hundreds more....
So I did a very quick survey of my female friends and it turns out that quite of few of them received Nintendo DSs for Christmas/Hanukah. Nintendogs was unanimously the accompanying software. Pink was the dominant colour.All of them received the handhelds from their significant others. Here's the clincher: none of them has yet had the chance to play on the new gadgets. It's the 9 January! Quelle surprise: the gift-giver has been hoarding the thing for his own purposes.Yes, I feel their pain. My DS has been similarly occupied for months. Personally, I blameAdvance Wars 2.
I've dreamed - haven't you? - of walking down the street while watching feature films on hi-tech glasses. Shushing fellow pedestrians who talk over the dialogue. Eating popcorn from a specially designed bowl-hat. Crying at the bus stop. Laughing as I roll over a car bonnet. Some say that walking into lamp-posts and other street users' fists might make these glasses unappealing accessories, but what do they know?Already, thanks to prostheses such as MP3 players and mobile phones, I can do lots of great things. Tune out of boring weddings/school plays/ relationship break-ups with my iPod. Photograph my hair and message it to strangers. Suck on the surrogate nipple that is the drink-through lid while texting Starbucks about the disappointing foam-to-coffee ratio in their "drinks". Without looking where I'm going!The best of us, you see, don't live in the real world any more. We live in a postmodern vortex of techno-cultural mutation whereby electronic and other aids enable us to approximate cyborg existences. "Being in the moment" is a luddite mantra. Transcending space-time is what it's all about, granddad. That is why texting pedestrians don't apologise to you when they bump into you on the street, and why it is fatuous to complain about the social irresponsibility of people driving while on mobile phones. We aren't humans. We are the trans-human future. And you? You are the problem. For more on this, google Mobile Technologies and Boundaryless Spaces: Slavish Lifestyles, Seductive Meanderings, or Creative Empowerment?, a paper by Nikhilesh Dholakia and Detlev Zwick.Frivolity may be the mother of invention in the decadent noughties, but technology hasn't moved quickly enough to keep up with my desires. Now, though, Samsung and Orange have collaborated to produce so-called MicroOptical glasses that enable me to watch King Kong while I swing through - delicious irony - the urban jungle. They cost &pound;200 and with them you can watch news bulletins and play video games too. They'll be available in Britain later this year but are already on sale in France, where boulevards are congested with bespectacled fl&acirc;neurs watching Les Enfants du Paradis and hissing at the philistinism of gendarmes who ask them to move along."The visor has been designed to allow the wearer to see above and below the image," explains the Mail on Sunday's science editor, "so that it is possible to navigate busy pavements or make a cup of tea without missing any of the action on the screen." Why stop there? Why not watch a film on your video glasses while driving? You could look up from Cronenberg's Crash seconds before you slammed into the back of a Mondeo on the North Circular. And savour the juxtaposition.Won't these video glasses make me look quite the idiot? you ask. Won't I get mugged five seconds after putting them on in public? I don't care for the sceptical tenor of your questions, I reply. Think positively - next time your boyfriend insists on taking you to see something rubbish with Vin Diesel in it, why, just put on your video glasses in the cinema and watch something you like instead. That way, everybody's happy.What should the government do about these looming video glasses? Hazel Blears will clearly soon face calls to authorise pre-emptive asbos that can be served on anyone who is contemplating buying them. Otherwise Britain's streets will shortly become even more of a bargeathon of unpleasantness than hitherto.In an unrelated development, John Prescott yesterday announced the launch of "Asbo TV" - television beamed to people's homes featuring live footage from CCTV cameras. This scheme will enable right-thinking people to watch on their TVs ne'er-do-wells behaving badly on their streets. It should make The Bill obsolete in a month. Viewers will be able to compare the footage with on-screen rogues' galleries and dob in those breaching asbos pronto to the fuzz from the comfort of their living rooms. That's what I call interactive telly. Of all the marvellous initiatives the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister has come up with, this is the best. I don't yet know whether I'll be able to get Asbo TV on my video glasses, but I hope so. I'm so looking forward to watching myself being arrested for breaching my anti-social behaviour order by watching telly as I walk the streets of London. It'll be no more than I deserve.Authorities are clamping down onGerman football fans who propose to bait the English during the World Cup by calling them "Inselaffen". The word means "island monkeys". They really shouldn't bother. Few England football fans know enough German to understand the taunt and, anyway, who doesn't like being called a monkey? Apart from France's cheese-eating surrender monkeys, obviously.Germans must really try harder if they want to upset their opposing fans. What is German for "lardy monoglot philistine red-bellied ugly insular alcoholic thick poodles of America"? Couldn't that phrase be set to - oooh, I don't know - the last movement of Beethoven's 9th and thus really upset the English? Come on, Germany - you used to be quite good at being offensive.Britain and Germany come joint 21stin the world happiness league, it was reported yesterday. Malta comes first. Apart from making me think that all such happiness surveys are misbegotten (Valletta? Not now, thanks), it also makes me wonder why Britons are so miserable.It's Sian Lloyd's fault. Apparently, she accentuates the positives in her weather forecasts in order to cheer up her viewers, who consist almost entirely of depressed Britons and hardly any of those sickeningly cheerful Maltesers we're always reading about. Sian, you're a super lady, but that's no way to do the weather. The result? You open the curtains the following morning expecting tropical sun above palm trees and find a slate-grey January sky hanging low over Nuneaton. "This isn't what Sian promised," you tell a thankless world. "I'm going back to bed with the gin."This weekStuart watched George Galloway MP on Celebrity Big Brother: "Voters of Bethnal Green and Bow, you have only yourselves to blame." Stuart didn't listen to The Killers: "I always knew they were overrated and now they turn up on David Cameron's tweedy iPod playlist to prove the point."
Can't get to Steve Jobs's keynote on Tuesday morning? (We can't, though we know someone who can..) Well, here you go - watch the webcast later and then see how well it goes. Mind youpractise and prepare in advance, of course, and make sure you've got your most faded jeans, grottiest sneakers, and most turtlenecky jumper on, and watch along, and tick them off as they come up!We've given our vague guide to what might happen, along with our rough guesses (based on a weighting of all the rumours multiplied by the average temperature of our computer's CPU when we wrote it minus the number of unread posts in our newsreader) of how likely they are to happen. As you can see, some things are certain. Most others aren't. We've also left a couple of gaps for your suggestions, which are of course welcome - leave them in the comments.(really loud but incomprehensible shout from nut in audience)(100%)Yes - confirmed by Bobbie Johnson"sold a total of 40 million iPods" (60% - because it'd be amazing if it's that high; 95% chance it's above 35m)Yes! 42 million, in factIntel iBooks using single-core chips with 13" screens (85%)Nope.movies that you can download direct to your Mac (65%)Hmm, no.Video-enabled Airport Express (40%)No.Nothingwith video came up apart from video podcasts.(mad applause and whooping from audience)(100%)Yes. Shooting fish in a barrel, that one."The nano is the fastest-selling iPodever" (90%)No - intriguing omission."Sold abillionsongs through the iTunes Music Store" (90%)No - the figure was 850 million, though some had expected a billion by now(disappointed silence from audience on hearing product price)(80%)"We've now made recording podcasts easier than ever before" (30%)Yes! The new version of Garageband does indeed do this.iLife 06 (100%)Yes - we're already preparing for iLife 07.... iWork - now including iWeb (85%)No - iWeb is part of iLife 06"You know what iWork needed? A spreadsheet... and here it is: Cells" (25%)Yes - iWork has now got a spreadsheet-like function; though no, it's not called Cells. (Pity.)"And.. boom! Look at that. You know, this is why we do what we do..." (90%)Intel Powerbooks using dual-core chips (30%)Yes! But what sort of name is 'MacBook Pro'? Does that mean the iBook will be the 'MacBook'?"Photocasting". Funny, we always just called it a photo in an RSS feed.Asteroidfor Garageband (20%)Not a sniff."..like to welcome [previously unheard-of person in suit]" (100%)Yes! Well, Paul Otellini isn't quite unheard-of, but the clean-room ("bunny") suit made up for it. His mother wouldn't have known him in it.Upgraded Mac Minis using Intel chips (85%)No - strangely absent.High-definition super-size screens (75%)Nope, this one was wide of the mark.Mac with video download service (95%)Yet another video thing missing in action."From today we're includingFront Rowonallnew Macs" (80%)Nope.?(during demo)"Oops! Ah, didn't mean to do that.." (90%)(Updated:theJoy of Tech has its own viewof what's behind a Steve Jobs keynote. Isn't there a backup generator missing, though?)
On New Year's Eve, I posted something about the US-CERT Cyber Security Bulletin's "year-end summaryof software vulnerabilities", partly because I expected it to provoke an outbreak of mass stupidity. It took a while but it has finally arrived. Anybody with a working brain should be able to see in 60 seconds or less that this is a non-story, so let me simplyrepeat what I wrote last year....The US-CERT Cyber Security Bulletinhas published a "year-end summaryof software vulnerabilities that were identified between January 2005 and December 2005," revealing that "there were 5198 reported vulnerabilities: 812 Windows operating system vulnerabilities; 2,328 Unix/Linux operating vulnerabilities; and 2,058 Multiple operating system vulnerabilities."However, you would need to do a lot of work to come up with any sensible conclusions from these numbers -- except one.First, the vulnerabilities were listed according to where they were found. A flaw in X doesn't mean it only affected X, since the same software may have the same security flaw on Y or Z.Second, the fact that CERT issued an advisory doesn't mean it had identified a new problem. For example, the entry forMultiple Vendors LibXPM Bitmap_unit Integer Overflowis followed by another 12 entries that readMultiple Vendors LibXPM Bitmap_unit Integer Overflow (Updated). That doesn't add up to 13 flaws. A very large number of the Unix/Linux/Mac entries are actually updates.Third, the crude grouping is not for operating systems but for operating environments. For example, the "812 Windows operating system vulnerabilities" run from1Two Livre d'Or Input Validation Errors Permit Cross-Site ScriptingtoZonGG Input Validation Hole in 'ad/login.asp' Permits SQL Injection, and include things likeApple Darwin Streaming Server Denial of Service. In other words, open source Unix code packaged by Apple appears in the list as a Windows operating system flaw. Any attempt to use the totals in a game of My OS is better than yours so Yah Boo Sucks is clearly stupid.Fourth, an advisory is simply an advisory: it doesn't tell you whether or not the flaw was significant, or whether it appeared in an important bit of software.Tofu Game Engine Arbitrary Python Code Executioncarries exactly the same weight as a gaping hole in IE or Firefox or Cisco routers. Nor does it tell you if the flaw was fixed.The only conclusion you can safely draw from the list is that all software has bugs. Take tomorrow off and do a back-up....
Lotus Exige&pound;29,995Top speed:147mphSeats:2Good for:EgomaniacsBad for:the school run'Arrrghhh, I've got no pelvic floor,' wails Katie, an eight-months-pregnant friend. 'I think I might wet myself.' She's wedged between the ultra-low roof and the wide leather door sill, her legs splayed comically towards the pavement. Her hands flap uselessly in front of her, grasping at anything which might give her some leverage. Her husband stands by laughing, clearly with no intention of helping. Imagine trying to get out of a wet bath sideways and feet first and you'll have some idea of her predicament.It all started innocently enough, as so many things do, as a dare. Could a pregnant woman get in and out of a Lotus? Admittedly, the Norfolk-built supercar was never intended as a means of transport for anyone with a large stomach, a bad back or severe claustrophobia. Of its many attributes, ease of access is very low on the list. It's easier to go for a pint with the Dalai Lama than it is to hop into an Exige.Squatting little more than waist-high, the Lotus Exige, with its raked headlamps, tarmac-hugging valance and giant rear wing, is the kind of look-at-me car that you'd think had escaped from the set of the latest Batman movie. It looks like a demented dragonfly - or maybe a hyperactive locust. Its engine (a 189bhp 1.8-litre Toyota-sourced powerplant) sits behind the driver and is open to both the elements and the adoring gaze of fellow devotees - a simple open mesh stops leaves and no doubt small birds and mammals from being sucked into it. From the driver's seat you only have to glance over your shoulder to check which liquids need topping up.The car comes in both lime green and goldfish orange, and the latter is ideal, as being stared at in the Exige does give you the unnerving impression that you are in fact driving a goldfish bowl. However, despite its stop-the-traffic appearance, what the Exige is all about can only be found on the inside.It's a performance car, a Matchbox fantasy made man-sized. It'll do 0-60 in less than five seconds - there are few other cars on the road that won't get smaller in your rear-view mirror when you put the throttle down. It has a top speed of 147mph, and is so light and agile it makes Colin Jackson look heavy-footed even in his Strictly Come Dancing sequins.The Exige is the latest in a long line of prestige motors from Lotus - the legendary firm set up by Colin Chapman more than 50 years ago. In the late Sixties and early Seventies, Lotus dominated Formula One; now, though, its road-going cars only dominate the daydreams of boy racers in long trousers everywhere.One of Lotus's many lovable quirks is that each of its models' names begin with an E - there's the Exige, of course, the Eleven, the Esprit, Elan and Elise. No one seems quite sure why, but fingers crossed for an Enid next time, or maybe an Ethel. Maybe not ...To drive, it's an overwhelmingly feelgood fun car. Seeing the road sweeping towards you between its flared front arches is a sight that justifies any amount of discomfort. Though I'm not sure Katie would agree.martin.love@observer.co.uk
So, that was CES: I left Las Vegas this afternoon with blistered feet and Mary Poppins-esque bags under my eyes. The show itself finishes tomorrow, but for us nosey hacks, the main events are over and done with - now it's down to the industry insiders.But what was it like? Well, for a start it was light on big news. In the keynote speeches, we found out little that we didn't already know - basically nothing from Microsoft, Sony and Intel, and not a huge amount from either Yahoo and Google. I didn't make it into theatre for Larry Page's keynote speech (they ran out of tickets) and so missed seeing Robin Williams getting to people laugh over the announcement, frankly, that wasn't as exciting as it could have been.What was interesting, I think, is that every single big player agreed on their vision for the future: delivering "content" (a word I dislike more with each passing day) to the public through the internet, and feeding it across devices. Such agreement! I think there's a book of Consumer Recommendations And Phrases which only contains the mantras of "consumer empowerment", "compelling experiences" and "what they want, when they want,wherethey want".There was a lot of big ideas that didn't quite light the place up. Connected home for media - give it a few years, maybe. Video stores - yawn (at least in the way they were presented). Google Pack - not exactly earth-shaking, but could be interesting given people's trust of the brand. In fact, AOL piqued my interest (not often that happens) when they said they would support free programming with on-screen advertising.There were gadgets, of course, and lots of them. I remain most impressed withSony Reader, but also enjoyed some of the extremely good-looking PCs boxes and bits and bobs around the place. Television screens got bigger, media players got smaller. In-car entertainment? Sorry, I get the bus. Mobile phones didn't set my world on fire either (the US market's like that) but HD-DVD versus Blu-Ray was interesting because Sony's looking further and further from the game.Of course, none of this is to say these things won't be important.On-demand media is clearly a Big Deal, mainly because everyone sees exactly how to cash in: broadcasters, telcos, tech firms, producers all want their slice of the pie. But right now people aren't that interested in the concept, and the market's too crowded sicne everyone's readying themselves for the gold rush. But ultimately, these things break wide open when one brand outperforms everyone else and hits the mainstream.Right now, none of the products seem sufficiently different to manage that - and perhaps this is one time when the fact that everyone agreeS could actually be more damaging in the long term.· Addendum - there are absolutely shedloads of photos on Flickr taggedCES
So far we've blogged more than a dozen sories from the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas: click theEventslink on the right to get them all.You can also seeall of January's posts-- or any other month's -- by using the pull-down list in the Monthly Archives box.And you may have missed some of these (not a complete list):Amazon wants authors to connectiBook and PowerBook ReliabilityEyeBud makes video iPod a big-screen TVFortune 500 business blog indexGuy Kawasaki -- Better Late Than ArrogantMicrosoft takes down Chinese bloggerNintendo DS is big in JapanPoll: Google the best of the WebSteve Jobs movie poster contestThe 50 Greatest Gadgets of the Past 50 YearsThe Perils of JavaSchoolsTop 10s of 2005 and 2006Vongo to offer movie downloadsXbox 360 a pain for the games industryWow House -- Yahoo to do reality show
Photo: EngadgetGoogle's CES keynote was sufficiently well leaked that there was nothing new in it, but it still proved to be an entertaining Robin Willliams show. As before, the guys atEngadget provided live coverage, with photos, until a design flaw in their Sony CyberShot camera intervened*.TheGoogle Video Storeis a commercial service where users can search Google -- or browse by category -- for some TV-style content, encoded for Windows in a format Larry Page can't remember ("It's not H264, I think it's 640x320"), which may optionally use Google's own DRM copy-protection system. You can apparently watch this as long as you are online, and you pay Google whatever the content provider decided to charge. (Note: Premium content "will only be available in the US" for now.) The fee is split with 30% going to Google.This is an alternative to searching the Torrents for a copy of the same content without DRM, probably in a much higher resolution, that you can save to CD/DVD and watch wherever you want for no cost at all. In other words, Google Video is targeted at people who don't have too much clue -- and probably bad news for Apple's iTunes.If the video content is not copy-protected, it will play on non-Windows systems. Google says: "iPod and Sony Playstation Portable users will also be able to download and watch any non-copy-protected content from Google Video, and even get it specially optimized for playback on their devices."Google Packis the downloadable software bundle previously described below (Google video, Google DRM, and a Googlepack of software?). The main "added value" is that you can download a bunch of stuff at once, with one licence agreement, and use the Google Updater to keep them up to date.However, it's not really a pack in the sense I originally understood it. It's just a list of programs that you can either download or not, just by clicking a Remove link for stuff you don't want. So there's no reason why it couldn't include large suites like OpenOffice and programs that most people already have and therefore don't want. And there's no reason why it couldn't include Microsoft programs, if Microsoft agreed.As usual, Mac and Linux users are second class citizens. Google Video and Google Pack are both for Windows only. However, a Mac version of Google Video is in the works.* Update: My bad: it was the Yahoo keynote coverage (below) that inlcuded the following: "Our camera batteries just rolled down the aisle, so we won't even try to shoot blurry pix of the trailer he's going to show for Mission Impossible 3. BIG strike against the CyberShot for putting the memory card in the same compartment as the spring-loaded batteries."
'It's good to talk," BT used to tell us. But it's even easier to send a text message. The Mobile Data Association predicts that 36.5 billion texts will be sent in the UK this year (a rise from 32.1 billion in 2005). This equates to 3.6 million messages every hour - remarkable for a technology that was launched commercially only 10 years ago.Texting's devotees now stretch beyond its core fan base of flirters, adulterers, school bullies and David Beckham. In November 2004 Tony Blair - not known for his ability to ignore a bandwagon - became the first Prime Minister to answer questions texted by members of the public. "My texting talents are poor, let's say underdeveloped," he admitted.But what the Prime Minister lacks in dexterity, he is generally thought to compensate in his ability to spell. Sadly, the same cannot be said of the nation's youth. Since 2002 various examiners' reports have bemoaned the prevalence of abbreviated text message style words - such as "u" for "you" - in formal exams.It's not just the teaching profession that has expressed alarm at the rise of vowel-less txt lngwj. In November 2003 modernisers made headlines with suggestions that shortened text phrases such as ttfn (ta ta for now) and fwiw (for what it's worth) should be allowed in the game of Scrabble. Traditionalists were furious.Equal outrage has been vented at attempts - most of them tongue-in-cheek - to "translate" well-known bits of literature into modern vernacular. The first line of Hamlet's soliloquy can be rendered as "2b/-b=?". Richard III's cry to exchange his kingdom for a horse becomes, "ggggUK4gg". A Christian magazine launched a competition to update the Lord's prayer - "dad@hvn, ur spshl" etc. And Microsoft recently had a stab at reducing the first five books of the Iliad to 32 lines of text language - "Wot hapnd when Agamemnon n Achilles had a barny?"Interestingly, however, the rising popularity of predictive texting - whereby the phone guesses the full, correctly-spelled version of the word as you hit the keys - has put a stop to the more extreme forms of abbreviation. But while predictive texting might be good for the nation's spelling, it is not always easily understood. Try typing "he if is cycle, he'll in to get his awake and come go to red of" and see what happens when the right combination of buttons throws up the wrong words.Indeed, there is probably a whole field of predictive text-related lexicology awaiting serious study. Researchers might find an intriguing answer for why a "kiss" often turns out to be on the "lips". Are chefs aged? Is it boring to be coping? Is art apt? Is it always good to be home in the hood? Or has everyone gone? And if you try and do something "asap" why does it often turn out "crap"?Likewise, Darwin is easy to spell once you're two-thirds there. Media is normally office based. And propaganda has always been prosaic first and foremost. Even "dual" has two meanings - one of which you have to teach your innocent phone.Readers over the age of 14 will have probably turned the page by now, but these silly examples do at least point to the indestructibility of the English language. Text messaging has not savaged the "language of Shakespeare", as doomsayers predicted. It has merely been absorbed, moulded and sculpted, much as the language integrated its Norman influences in the 11th century, or its American in the 20th.Even the Conservatives are part of this process. Their new pressure group focused on correcting the gender imbalance in parliament is called - rather trendily - Women2Win.&#183;Do you have a forgotten news story that you would like chased up?Email:iain@iainhollingshead.co.uk
In the casinos that run up and down the gaudy central strip in Las Vegas, everybody understands the rules. Gamblers come here in their millions each year in order to pay their money, play their cards and hope for a little glory.But just a stone's throw away from the heartland of modern hedonism, an entirely different game has been played out this week. Behind the closed doors of the annual Consumer Electronics Show - which runs here until tomorrow - some of the world's most powerful people are gambling on something worth far more than just money: the future.Anyone who is anyone in the hi-tech business makes this annual pilgrimage to southern Nevada. The Microsoft chairman, Bill Gates, kicked off proceedings with a speech on Tuesday, and last night the Google co-founder Larry Page made his debut as a keynote speaker.Like many things developed in America, CES is big. Spread across a toe-blistering 1.6m square feet, there is room for more than 2,500 exhibitors to show off their products and ideas to the 130,000 technologists, buyers and media personnel who will walk the halls over four days. Attendees are drawn from every corner of the globe: 100 countries are represented this year, including candidates such as Cambodia and Cameroon.Some have fared better than others of late, but in general, business is booming across the board. Last year sales of consumer electronics goods like TV sets and PCs generated more than &pound;70bn in sales across America alone. At CES, hall after hall stacked with products shows exactly what we will be adding to our shopping list this coming year: huge high-definition television screens, in-car entertainment and next-generation DVD players. Old favourites are here too - digital music players, mobile phones and computers.In particular, this year's show is obsessed with personalising media. Using delivery systems like the internet to provide new ways of slicing and dicing the world around us, customers will see our entertainment needs tailormade to our personal specifications.We will get audio on demand, video on demand, movies on demand. In this want-it-now society, punters are being promised whatever they want, whenever they want it - and, in many cases, wherever they want it, too.Their vision of the future places people at the centre of a hi-tech network that can connect to their personal information wherever they are. Your library of music, video, photos and computer files are stored in a PC in the living room and simply channelled to your TV, computer or mobile phone as and when they are required.Hundreds of companies here are wagering that technologies which now exist separately will become increasingly merged in the near future. Here, telephones can show if your partner is unable to pick up before you even start dialling. Television sets let you know if your friends are watching the same TV show, offering you the chance to talk to them during the programme.This connected world stretches outside the home, too, with devices that let you access them on the move. Use your mobile phone to record a football match when you're stuck on the train, watch live TV on your PlayStation Portable, or use a rooftop receiver to watch your home movies in the car. It's a version of the world that hi-tech companies are convinced appeals to demanding, techno-savvy customers, especially because they will be expected to pay for the privilege through hefty subscriptions.Amid all this energy and drive, there is inevitably conflict. No matter how much the arbiters of our future agree on buzz concepts like "consumer empowerment" and "compelling experiences", sharing near-identical visions can never iron out disagreements, especially when large profits are at stake.There was conflict, for example, between Toshiba and Sony over which of them is frontrunner to replace the DVD. Sony, in turn, has an enemy in Microsoft, since both want to produce the next video game console of choice. On the other hand, Microsoft and Google are clearly heading towards an inevitable and extensive conflict as they fight for dominance of the internet.Las Vegas, the scene of legendary boxing bouts featuring fighters such as Muhammad Ali and Mike Tyson, knows how to host a heavyweight contest.
The discovery that cancer-causing oncogenes won't function unless another gene is present may not have been so widely recognised by gamers had it not been for scientists at New York's Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Centre referring to the POK Erythroid Myeloid Ontogenic gene as "Pokemon". As well as drawing all sorts of inadvertent publicity from games magazines, this move also woke the sleeping giant that is Nintendo of America, who, angered by the association of its game with something that causes cancer, are behind the announcement that the gene will now revert to its formal nomenclature, "Zbtb7". This leaves Sonic the Hedgehog (the SHH protein, critical in the development of fruit flies' brains) as the only remaining portion of the genome still to be named after a video game character.
You're on a train, you finish your book and there's only a week-old Sunday Express sports section in the carriage for company. What do you do? Turning to your mobile for entertainment has always been a hit-and-miss affair, where well-known names are far from a guarantee of quality, and unfortunately still proves to be the case.Doom RPGLooking and playing like 3D Monster Maze on the Sinclair ZX81, Doom RPG (which stands for Role-Playing Game) deliberately removes the dexterity-based gameplay of its bestselling sibling, replacing it with a jerkily executed lurch around monotonous corridors among idiot, stationary enemies. Collecting power-ups, ammo and experience to enhance your character is frighteningly unrewarding, making play a relentless chore.SlyderLike the classic Skipping Stone, Slyder makes the superb design choice of using just one button on your mobile - the joystick alone guides your little blob around a series of increasingly tricky mazes. Overcoming obstacles and learning to use level furniture to your advantage are both parts of Slyder's delightful and addictive learning curve. It's possible to get seemingly irredeemably stuck, but the solution always presents itself in the end - a matter of considerable satisfaction.Metal SlugAnyone who's been playing games for a while will instantly recognise Metal Slug. This retains much of the series' unforgettable twitch-gaming action, transposing the rapid fire shooting and neatly drawn characters onto a very small screen. Although significantly simplified for mobile, the confusion of buttons and constant latency of the controls make this an unpleasant mess to play, with at least as much effort expended wrestling the keypad as desiccating enemies.Sims 2As an unutterably complex PC game, Sims 2 really has no right to work on a system without a hard drive, mouse or keyboard - but it does. Shifting focus from macro relationships and house-building to a much more singular experience, Sims 2 has you feeding, washing and taking care of your Sim's lavatorial needs against a gently plotted backdrop. Works well in bite-sized chunks.
Gene Simmons and KISS are the masters of squeezing every dollar from their popularity with a staggering array of official merchandise ranging from breakfast cereals to rubber ducks to condoms. Now fans can take their worship to the grave with the official Kiss Coffin (www.kissonline.com/kasket), available for just $4,700.Elsewhere, cult film director and sometime Americana singer-songwriter Vincent Gallo (vgmerchandise.com) has an interesting range of goods available, including a Hopalong Cassidy bedspread he owned as a child and, for just $1m, a sample of his own sperm - in case you're interested, price includes all costs related to one attempt at an in-vitro fertilisation. All of this makes Madonna's step into the world of "de-alcoholised red wine" (www.celebritycellars.com/madonna.php) seem highly reasonable.
Internet search giant Google last night launched a video download store, putting it in direct competition with Apple, the manufacturer of iPod.Rumours of the service surfaced earlier this week, and leaked details emerged before Google's co-founder Larry Page confirmed the launch at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.The service, which will initially focus on US television content, is expected to allow consumers to download TV shows and sport from a number of US networks. It will be the first time that the Californian web company has offered a paid-for service on such a scale. Until now, the company's internet products - including web search, email and maps - have been free to use, but supported through advertising. A previous version of video downloading offered by Google gave content, including TV shows, without charge.The rush to provide video downloads has been building since Apple added the ability to buy television programmes through its iTunes Music Store. That attempt to capitalise on the huge rise in the number of legal music downloads, and its success, has precipitated a number of rival plans for similar services.Google also fired a shot at Microsoft by announcing it would be a downloadable package. The Google Pack, which contains a number of existing programs under a user-friendly banner, is seen as the first step to a challenge to Microsoft Windows, which runs 95% of the world's computers.
Photo: EngadgetYahoo has reinvented Microsoft Live with a Google Sidebar, and now it's called Yahoo! Go.Yahoo boss Terry Semel filled the dawn patrol slot at CES in Las Vegas, withEngadget providing a live commentary. He launched Yahoo Widgets (from Yahoo's purchase of Konfabulator, as copied by Apple and Microsoft) on a Yahoo Dashboard. You can sign up athttp://go.connect.yahoo.com/goand there are versions for PC, TV and mobile phone.Yahoo! Go allows you to access the information and content that is important to you on whatever device you choose. So wherever you go, your photos, your music, your email, – your life – is right there with you. Ready to goThe PC version isn't browser based. It has a sidebar down the right hand side of the screen with slide-out panels, just like Google's sidebar. The TV version, available in April, looks more like Microsoft Windows XP Media Center Edition. (Well, Yahoo Go TV runs on PCs with Windows XP and Intel Viiv platforms, which runs Windows XP Media Center Edition, so the similarity isn't too surprising.) Yahoo Go Mobile apparently runs on Nokia Series 60 phones.There's avideo of the presentation, which I haven't seen. (It is about 350 megs and at the rate it is buffering, will start playing here on Sunday afternoon, so I'm doing the five-hour download instead.*)Trivia point: There used to be aGo portal around 1999-2001, whichWalt Disneycreated by spinning off its Internet properties into Go.com, with the Infoseek search engine. The idea was to compete with giants such as Yahoo and Alta Vista.Terry Semelused to work forWalt Disney.BusinessWeek has some news analysishere....* The overnight download failed unrecoverably at 118MB.
TuesdayGaming New Year ResolutionsWriting on the wall for PSPLingo leaves non-gamers lostWednesdayVirtual world programme on BBC World ServiceWhat a strange gadgetThursdayWorld says yes to DSTechnologyLivingstone gets OBE in New Year honoursExternal HD-DVDWhen virtual worlds reflect the real one a little too closelyFridayVirtual world future is in the hands of the kidsGaining independencePoor games with great ideasPrinted out
Thenewsthat Highbury House - publishers of games magazines including Play and GamesTM - has gone up for sale only confirms Future's dominance of the UK games mag market. The Bath-based publisher essentially owns the market and it would be a brave company who decided to launch a new games mag in the current climate. Should this bother you?PC games fans still get a choice of a couple of mags - PC Zone is always a good read - while PlayStation 2 owners have a number of titles to chose from. Those who want to play can grab one of the official mags with their exclusive discs and loyal copy, while Edge is now the only choice - assuming GamesTm is finished - for gamers old enough to remember tapes and psychedelic loading screens. Does this matter though? Are we getting less choice because of one company's dominance or are there simply not enough readers to support more competitors? Isn't it all just about the official license anyway? Or, in fact, are we all too busy blogging these days?
"Intel Corporation and Google today announced plans to bring Google Video to the new Intel Viiv technology platform. This planned collaboration is intended to give consumers an easy way to search, manage and consume the huge amount of video information available on the Internet from the comfort of their couch," says Intel."Google looks forward to working with Intel to bring Google Video to consumers who use the new Intel Viiv platform," says Susan Wojcicki, vice president for product management at Google.Users will no doubt be delighted to hear that Google has managed to come up with a video format that works with x86 and compatible processors.Intel has also signed up NBC to provide exclusive of the Winter Olympics optimized for Viiv, plus deals for music, video and radio from AOL, MTV Networks, DirecTV, ClickStar and Eros International ("the single largest international distributor in the Indian film industry," says Intel's PR), among others.SinceViivis what's known in the trade as "a Windows Media Center PC", it's hard to see what all this means, if anything.Intel's Viiv page says: "With your Intel Viiv technology-based PC, you can access a wide variety of global, on-demand entertainment services from companies like Movielink, Yahoo MusicMatch, DISCover, Adobe and many more." Great. All these work with Windows Media Center PCs.But since it doesn't claim they won't work with, say, AMD-powered PCs, what's the fuss about?
Microsoft doesn't do handheld music players, but it's not hard to imagine that it would prefer more users to buy devices running its Portable Media Center software rather than Apple iPods. It's certainly given the Toshiba Gigabeat S Series Portable Media Center a bit of a plug. Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates showed one during his CES Keynote on Wednesday, andMicrosoft's Windowsmobile siteis featuring it. The site says:Just announced!The Toshiba Gigabeat S Series Portable Media Center offers a vivid 2.4" color display and an extended storage capacity, so you can take your favorite digital media with you. Download recorded TV shows from TiVo Series2 or feature-length movies from movie studio Web sites, and then watch them on your Portable Media Center or a TV. Listen to music and download album art from online music providers. Tune into your favorite FM radio station with the unique FM tuner feature. Create impressive photo shows set to music, or enjoy interactive gaming with integrated audio for Microsoft Xbox 360™.Available Spring 2006.(Not sure what "Audio integration with Xbox 360" actually means.)The two rival devices featured on the site are theTatung V620, with its 3.5in screen, and theLG PM70. The LG model has a 4.3 inch 470 x 272 widescreen display and supports the wmv, wav, wma, ogg, asf, MP3, DivX, and XviD formats.But as always with these devices, you need a hands-on to find out what they're really like.....
From here in London, there are a couple of new devices I wish I could get my hands on. First there's the DualCor wirelessHandtop PC, which runs two operating systems -- Windows XP and Windows Mobile (ie CE) -- and combines a PC with a PDA and a mobile phone. The press release says it measures 6.5 x 3.3 x 1.2 inches, and the spec includes 1.5GHz and 400MHz processors, 1GB of DDR2 RAM, a 40GB hard drive, and a 5 inch, 800 x 480 resolution 256K colour touch-screen display. It's presumably designed for commercial rather than personal use, so I'd guess its success depends on getting adopted by one or two corporate giants, or the military. But it doesn't look bad value, as these things go, for $1,500.The other is the OQO Tablet PC model 01+, whichthe company saysis now the smallest and most portable PC running Microsoft Windows XP Tablet PC Edition 2005. The spec includes a 1GHz Transmeta processor with 512MB of RAM, 30GB hard drive, a 5 inch, 800 x 480 touch screen display and a pull-out keyboard. It measures 4.9 x 3.4 x 0.9 inches and weighs 14 ounces. However, it looks rather pricey at $2,099, which compares with prices for the original OQO starting at $1,299. That seems a heck of a lot extra for the upgrade to Windows XP Tablet PC Edition.
Okay, it's been a while since we had one of those friday afternoon videogame history memory tests, so here's one that came to me while sorting through my games collection yesterday (I knocked a massive pile over while putting the Christmas tree decorations back in the attic...). Sometimes very poor games include one quite stunning idea buried away in an otherwise abject experience, other times, the central concept behind a title is stunningly original, but the resulting game just doesn't work.What are the most interesting examples you've come across? I was thinking, perhaps, of MDK, Shiny Entertainment's more-or-less forgotten shooter, which more-or-less invented the zoom-in sniper scope. (Actually, Shiny also developed Messiah a mediocre game with the great idea that your character could inhabit the body of others...). Also, Vib Ribbon, the extraordinary PlayStation game that created twisting, looping landscapes in response to any audio CD you put in the drive. And then there was Soul Reaver with its use of co-existing real and spirit worlds, oh and Libero Grande, the Namco footie game where you controlled only one player on the field. None of these were terrible, though - I'm racking my brains to think ofreallycrap games with a single incredible idea.While I'm thinking, it's over to you...
Microsoft has defended its closure of an internet blog that criticised the Chinese government, saying the censorship was "in line with Microsoft practices".The company's MSN Spaces closed the blog by the media researcher Zhao Jing this week after he attacked the sacking of the editor at the independent Beijing News daily newspaper."In line with Microsoft practices in global markets, MSN is committed to ensuring that products and services comply with global and local laws, norms, and industry practices," the company said."Most countries have laws and practices that require companies providing online services to make the internet safe for local users. Occasionally, as in China, local laws and practices require consideration of unique elements."MSN Spaces is a joint venture between Microsoft and Shanghai Alliance Entertainment, which is controlled by the Chinese government."We think it's better to be there with our services than not be there," Brooke Richardson, a group product manager for MSN in Seattle, told the New York Times.Mr Zhao, who works as a researcher at the New York Times, uses the pen name Michael Anti, which is a pun. "An" means peace and security, while "ti" means alternative.In his posts, he urged readers to boycott the Beijing News and for its staff to resign after the Chinese government had its editor sacked and banned discussion of the incident."I posted three posts about the Beijing News and all posts and articles were deleted inside China," Mr Zhao told the XFN-Asia news service."MSN Spaces &#91;has&#93; now deleted all of my articles and I have no back-up and I'm very angry."Some of the world's biggest technology companies including Microsoft and Yahoo! have censored their websites at the Chinese government's request to maintain access to the country.Last year Yahoo! gave the Chinese authorities personal email details about a Chinese journalist whom the government then jailed.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
BSkyB is hooking up with Microsoft to launch a broadband video on demand service offering film and sport to personal computer users.The Microsoft chairman, Bill Gates, unveiled the BSkyB tie-up last night at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.Internet giants Google and Yahoo! are also today expected to unveil aggressive moves to offer video download services, both advertiser-funded and via subscription.BSkyB and Microsoft will be developing a service offering video on demand downloads via the latter's Windows Media Centre software."They've got over eight million subscribers in the UK who will be able to do those downloads and use those great capabilities," Mr Gates said in a keynote speech."'Sky by broadband' will include hundreds of movies and hundreds of sports clips to download or stream," Microsoft added in a statement.BSkyB's deal with Microsoft follows its acquisition late last year of UK broadband provider Easynet for &#163;211m.Google is understood to be planning to announce a way to allow content producers to charge users of the search engine fees to watch TV programmes on their computers, either as streamed files or downloads for later viewing.The internet search engine is reported to have already signed content deals with CBS and the US National Basketball Association.CBS is expected to charge $1.99 for episodes of shows in its current prime time schedule, which includes the CSI franchise, and possibly less for older programmes.Yahoo! is understood to be planning a free advertiser-funded broadband video service at first, but to start charging for downloads later this year.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Boris Johnson, the recently appointed shadow minister for higher education, has gingerly dipped his toe into the academic debate with an appeal for ideas from students on his blog.The outspoken journalist, columnist and politician, in his first public comments in the role awarded to him by David Cameron in December last year, has started an online debate on the future for the Conservative's higher education policy with a promise that his comments may be unguarded, but "so what?"Under his new motto Hinc in Altiora! (which translates to the pun: Hence into the higher, or deep end), he writes: "As the new Tory spokesman in charge of higher education I am going to be in charge (at least, partly in charge) of devising policy on student finance and other very difficult questions."But before we get there I want to enlist your help. In the perhaps deluded belief that that there are some students out there who read this blog, or anyone else involved in higher education, I want to see if I can call on your expertise. In the words of Mrs Merton, let's have a debate."I may say some unguarded things, but so what? The main thing is to thrash out the issues."Top of his agenda will be the rewriting of the Tory policy of university funding, which had been to oppose fees in favour of commercial rates of interest on loans, but is now under review.But in his first post on the subject of higher education, he opens with the debate kicked off in the Guardian earlier this week about racial segregation in universities. Not a man known for his political correctness, he writes: "It is obviously a bad thing if blacks are in some way being deterred from or in other ways failing to get their fair share of places at top universities. But what about places where blacks are proportionally overrepresented? Should we be worried about them, too? "There is a kind of self-selecting system of apartheid going on in British universities."He asks whether the problem should be dealt with through regulation. "So here's this week's higher education conundrum: the problem of ethnic minority under/overrepresentation is a matter for concern. But is it a matter for regulation? And if so, what?"His question has prompted 40 comments postings since yesterday, most arguing against any positive discrimination. Tom Paine writes: "What should you do? Butt out. Your only legitimate policy is that university admissions should be class and colourblind, with neither the school the applicant attends, nor his or her ethnic origins being disclosed."If the admissions tutor then discriminates unlawfully against a qualified applicant, for example on the basis of race, then let the applicant sue."
The Wall Street Journal has had a go at pre-empting Larry Page's speech at CES today.It says:Google Inc plans to announce Friday that it will begin allowing consumers to buy videos from major content partners through the Google site and will also roll out a new downloadable bundle of software for consumers that could heighten Google's competition with Microsoft Corp., according to people familiar with the matter.Under the major upgrade to Google's video-search service, consumers will be able to pay to download and view videos, such as television shows, on their computers from Google content partners such as TV companies, people familiar with the matter say. Google plans to announce partnerships with some major players tomorrow, including CBS Corp. and the National Basketball Association, these people say. By virtue of Google's huge presence online, the move could place Google in competition with other emerging powers in Internet distribution of video such as Apple Computer Inc.However, the sting only comes at the end of the article:Google has developed its own digital-rights-management software to protect downloaded videos from piracy.The video offering will be joined by a Google Pack of software with a single installation routine. The WSJ says:That software will include the open-source Firefox Web browser, a version of Norton AntiVirus software from Symantec Corp., Adobe Systems Inc.'s Reader software, RealNetworks Inc.'s RealPlayer multimedia software, Trillian instant-messaging software from Cerulean Studios and Lavasoft AB's Ad-Aware antispyware software. Google Pack will also include Google's own desktop search software, Google Earth satellite imaging and maps software, Picasa photo-management software, Google Talk instant-messaging program, its Toolbar add-on for Web browsers and screen saver software.Presumably users will be able to install the bits they want (Firefox) and ignore the bits they don't. Whether enough of the rest is wanted is another matter. Most PCs already come with Adobe Reader and Real installed, so those are superfluous, Norton is proprietary and no doubt comes with financial strings attached, and it's a long time since Ad-Aware was the first choice in adware checking. Notably absent from the list are Sun's Java (already widely pre-installed) and Star Office (aka OpenOffice.org), perhaps because both are bloatware.The bundle could also be installed on new PCs, which would solve the download problem, but how much is Google willing to pay PC manufacturers to do that?Currently, PC vendors rake in tidy sums by bundling all sorts of cra^h^h^h useful trial applications with new PCs, along with several nascent internet connections, the idea being that users eventually stump up the money because they've got used to them or simply can't figure out how to get rid of them.The only thing that's missing is a major PC company that sells PC's on the basis that "if you want to buy a Windows PC, guess what: we'll only install Windows!" I might even pay extra for that....
It will come as a shock to film fans who have spent Christmas stocking up on their movie collections, but the technology industry is in agreement: the DVD is dead.Consumer electronics companies have begun to show off what they believe will be the next generation of home video technologies. But despite the common belief that the DVD is history, the industry is split over what the next step should be.Two warring factions each believe their product should become the standard that takes over from the DVD, and both sides have been using the huge Las Vegas Consumer Electronics Show this week to confront each other directly.In one corner stands Sony, which has gathered a wide spread of support for a new format known as Blu-Ray. In the other is Toshiba which is championing HD-DVD, a cheaper, less advanced option.The fight has been precipitated by the worldwide growth in high-definition TV (HDTV), which offers far clearer images than traditional television pictures. It is already popular in the US, and satellite broadcaster Sky is expected to launch services in the UK this year. Ordinary DVDs, say both sides, are not big enough to cope with HDTV's memory-intensive images.The first concrete blow was struck this week when Toshiba said it would be launching its first commercial HD-DVD player in March at $499 (&#163;284) - a price that analysts say is highly competitive. "HD-DVD is destined to be a key driver for progress and the development of the consumer electronics, IT and entertainment industries," said Yoshihide Fujii, a senior vice president of Toshiba.HD-DVD fits three times more information on a disc than DVD techniques - but because the manufacturing process is similar to existing ones, they will be inexpensive and quick to produce.Blu-Ray is struggling to keep up despite backing from Hollywood studios and a wider support base among electronics firms. Companies, including Philips and Panasonic, announced new players at CES, but they are not due in shops until at least the second half of this year and are likely to be much more expensive.Another blow came when Microsoft's chairman, Bill Gates, confirmed his company would be making a plug-in HD-DVD drive for the Xbox 360 games console.Sony's rival format does away with traditional red lasers in favour of more efficient blue ones. This enables a single disc to store five times more than a DVD.So is it really curtains for your DVD player? Not necessarily, say some experts. The HD-DVD standard will offer compatibility with the discs you already own, and telly addicts will need to splash out on expensive HDTV sets before the difference is noticeable. But if a winner does not emerge soon, observers predict a rerun of the VHS-Betamax video battle of the 80s, with many left seething after their Betamaxes became obsolete almost overnight."HD-DVD is clearly treating this is as a loss leader," said Ted Schadler, an analyst with Forrester Research. "For Toshiba, it's less risky to lose money on the players than it is to lose the war altogether."Some, however, suggest both options could be bypassed by other technologies. Google is planning an online video service that will allow users to pay to download films and programmes over the internet. It could do for videos what iTunes has done for music and could quickly make DVD-style formats seem old hat.Technology casualtiesBetamaxSony's video cassette format lost in war with JVC's VHS tapes in 1980s.Digital Compact Cassette and MiniDiscPitched as a successor to the humble analogue tape, DCC was introduced in 1992 by Philips but lost short-lived format war with Sony's MiniDisc. Sony's own system suffered from the availability of cheap recordable CDs and the rise of digital MP3 players.Sinclair C5Launched in 1985, the three-wheeled, battery vehicle was quickly a commercial disaster.SegwayThe motorised scooter was meant to revolutionise city travel. People found it easier, and cheaper, to walk.
Woke up this morning to find a Microsoft patch for WMF had been downloaded, and was ready to install. If you want to read about it, or need to update manually, seeMicrosoft Security Bulletin MS06-001In therelease note, Microsoft says:Microsoft originally planned to release the update on Tuesday, Jan. 10, 2006, as part of its regular monthly release of security bulletins, after testing for quality and application compatibility was complete. However, testing has been completed earlier than anticipated and the update is ready for release. In addition, Microsoft is releasing the update early in response to strong customer sentiment that the release should be made available as soon as possible.Microsoft's monitoring of attack data continues to indicate that the attacks are limited and are being mitigated both by Microsoft's efforts to shut down malicious Web sites and by up-to-date signatures from anti-virus companies.All in all, WMF seems to have had very little impact. But it could have turned out much much worse.....
Greg asked for yourvideogame-related New Year resolutionslast week - one of mine is to play more indie games. I'm not naive enough to think they're a panacea for all that's wrong in the commercial arm of the industry, and to be honest I'm not thinking about discovering some amazing new design concept.It has more to do with nostalgia...The image comes from top indie game,Mexican Motor MafiaTake a look at Gametunnel.com's enticingTop Ten Independent Games of 2005(I'm sure some were out in 2004, but never mind). There's a Sensi Soccer-style football game, a sort of turbo version of Civilization, a top-down driving game that bears a close resemblance to the first three GTA titles (including GTA London of course)... favourite obsolete games and genres, re-visited and re-mixed.The merger of old-skool themes with modern technology has, of course, been popular in mass culture for several years. From Eric Prydz, Uniting Nations and Mylo updating eighties pop tracks, to the endless Hollywood re-imaginings of classic TV series, nostalgia has become a powerful commodity - but crucially, today's audiences demand a modern spin. We've gone beyond merely reminiscing over Miami Sound Machine, Dukes of Hazzard et al - we've come to the devastating realisation that they're not as great as we remember. So they're mashed up with modern stars, in-jokes and superior audiovisual technology. In this way, the past is re-packaged so that it becomes fun again.Same goes for indie games. They re-visit and re-interpret classic genres, tart them up a bit, mix a few of them together - so that we get a retro fix without the horror of realising that, oh god no, some eighties classics are almost unplayable now.So yes, more independent games for me in 2006. I'm daft enough to reminisce about the golden age of gaming, but not daft enough to go back there and expect everything to be the same.
Formerly "Social virtual worlds tower over MMOGs: the kiddies have it"So you think World of Warcraft getting over 5 million subscribers is something to write home about? Well, yeah, I suppose it is. But check out the figures for social virtual worlds - places likeHabbo Hotel,ActiveWorldsandVirtual Magic Kingdom- which don't provide a plot for players to play through, but a platform for them to come together. Habbo alone boasts40 million subscribersaccording to creators Sulake and Virtual Worlds Review (VWR) author and Terra Nova contributor Betsy Book.Correction: TN authorRen Reynoldspoints out that there are 40m Habbocharacters, rather than 40m Habbo subscribers. Read his comments below for more.Betsy's put up a top 10 social virtual worlds list by page hits at VWR and recorded them over atTN. Habbo is by far the leader and, as she points out, nine out of ten of the worlds are free and five out of ten have in-world advertising.Most interesting are her predictions for 2006, alluded to in an earlier gamesblog posthere:While some may write many of these worlds off as 'kid-stuff' 40 million habbos can't be ignored. If nothing else, I think the popularity of avatar-based online social experiences will continue to grow in 2006. And yes, kids and teens will be leading the way.Teens and kids, eh? That makes sense. Virtual world thinkers have oft suggested that saturation in the technological sphere will be easier when we oldies die out with our preconceptions about identity and self. Why shouldn't such social spaces - mediated by a computer rather than a telephone or pen and paper to refer to previous communication innovations - engender relationships? 'Tis the future, aye.More info from gamesblog on social virtual worlds ishereandhere.
Howard Stringer's keynote talk at CES this morning was enjoyable after the frankly fairly dullGates speech, and (dare I say it) likely to be the most entertaining we see here on the big stage at Las Vegas this week.Part of that was thanks to a bit of star power, as Sony wheeled out Tom Hanks, Ron Howard and Da Vinci Code author Dan Brown among others. Hanks gave the boss man a run for his money by ad libbing - everyone else was sticking to the teleprompter - and got a few laughs for hamming it up.The speech kicked off in slightly strange fashion, with Stringer (sorry, Sir Howard) paying tribute to Australian media tycoon Kerry Packer, but soon got on track. A video featuring people around the world hooking - including obligatory London shots of Big Ben, Routemaster buses and a punk (eh?) was used to underline a fairly clear message: Sony's trying to stop the rot by dealing with content and technology in the same breath.Highlights included the forthcoming eBook rseader - whichwhich Jack mentioned earlier, the LocationFree system for connecting your PSP to your home network from anywhere in the world and the W810 Walkman phone. Blu-Ray came in for a lot of talk (but little market detail) and we also saw quite a bit about PlayStation 3. But beyond a lot of promised potential, the detail was light.However, there was an interesting arrogance about the way Sony reps were describing the next generation console battle: apparently PlayStation 2 and PSP both outsold Xbox 360 over the Christmas period, and the brash statement that "We'll know when the next generation arrives, because it's when we'll launch".
Bill Gates made a passing reference to BSkyB during his CES keynote last night, and Microsoft today confirmed some of the details, ahead of Sky's official launch next Tuesday.Sky will use Windows Media Center to deliver its forthcoming Sky By Broadband service, which will enable 8 million Sky subscribers in the UK to access video via their PCs. Movies and sports will be delivered through the MCE's Online Spotlight portal, which already offers movies and sports content, music on demand, news and games.Video will be delivered in Windows Media Video 9 format to Windows Media Player10. The digital rights management (DRM) system will let people watch the movies they download for up to 30 days.In October, Sky bought Easynet for £211 million, to enable it to offer"triple-play" services-- broadband internet, television and telephony. Sky is also planning a Sky By Mobile service.
Seems ages since we covered the launch of Sony's brilliantLibrie e-book readerin Japan, butGizmodohas just had a look at the latest incarnation at CES.No word on whether it's been crippled by Sony's usual user-hostile attitude to copy protection (qv MiniDisc, CDs with "rootkits", Magic Gated MP3 players etc) but Gizmodo says: "The books will be available through the Connect Store, and there is some Connect software for managing your books (so far this is the only drawback). Random House, HarperCollins Publishers, Penguin-Putnam, Simon &amp; Schuster and Time Warner Book Group are all on board with titles, along with Manga publisher Tokyopop. Sony is promising to deliver this reader by Spring."Incidentally, Gizmodo has already filed a ton of CES stories -- my guesstimate is more than 50, less than 100 --here/ Current top story is Samsung's 82" LCD TV. No price.Also, Engadgetblogged the whole Sony press conferencelive with pictures, though the results were a lot less entertaining than the blog readers' comments.....
Imagine a world in which you pick the information you are interested in and it follows you everywhere - your home, your car, your phone or your office.To some, that may sound like science fiction, or about as likely as the eternally-heralded paperless office. But the Microsoft chairman, Bill Gates, said he believed it could be achievable within three or four years when he outlined his vision of a "connected future" at this week's annual Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas.Mr Gates, who became the world's richest man on the back of the personal computer explosion of the 80s and 90s, said he believed the next few years could herald another revolution in the way we use information.In a demonstration to technology industry experts, he put forward a concept of kitchen-based video screens showing personalised information as well as TV and internet news, all linked wirelessly to mobile phones and office computers."Five or six years ago, if you'd said to people that software would make photos, music and TV better, they'd have been sceptical," Mr Gates told an audience of technology industry experts. "This really is the symptom of the great progress of the digital decade."Thanks to the rocketing growth in mobile phones, computers and broadband internet connections, he said the potential to link up the disconnected streams of information in people's lives was greater than ever."My preferences, my interests are reflected on those devices," he said. "It's not just software for the PC, software for the phone, software for the video game - it's software for the user."The Microsoft boss - recently voted Time magazine's person of the year alongside his wife, Melinda, and the rock star Bono - was in bullish mood as he outlined the corporation's strategies for the coming year.He trumpeted an 11% increase in sales of Windows-compatible PCs over the past year, including a sizeable boost for the living room-friendly Media Center PC line, and predicted good sales for Microsoft's new videogames console, the Xbox 360.With the living room now seen as the biggest battleground for electronics, internet and broadcasting companies alike, Microsoft is placing great emphasis on its involvement in the future development of TV technologies.Mr Gates revealed that Microsoft and the satellite TV firm Sky were teaming up to create an internet-based video on demand service for the UK, and said more deals were in the pipeline."We're working with BSkyB: they'll be setting up a video on demand capability that will be for Windows Media Center customers," he said. "More than 8 million subscribers in the UK will be able to get this."Many other companies are using the international CES - one of the world's leading technology showcases - to map out the future of internet TV.Many of the 2,500 companies are exhibiting products for video over the web, and large areas of the 1.6m sq ft show floor will be given over to high-definition TV.The chip-maker Intel is showcasing its new range of TV-friendly hardware, while manufacturers including Panasonic are unveiling television sets able to connect directly to the web to display internet pages and video."The power of the internet players, and the investment they're making in video is a threat in and of itself," Saul Berman, a partner in IBM's media and entertainment consultancy, said.Mr Gates's speech was also used to unveil a new music download shop backed by MTV. The service, called Urge, could prove a stern challenge to the dominant iTunes Music Store because it offers not only extensive music downloads but also a large amount of video content from MTV's family of television stations.
"HD DVD players will be available in March at prices as low as $500, beating Blu-ray Disc players to the market by several months and less than half the cost," reportsVideo Business.At the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas on Wednesday, Toshiba America Consumer Products announced its first two HD DVD high-definition models -- players only, not recorders -- will start shipping in March at prices of $500 and $800.New Blu-ray Disc player models announced Wednesday by Pioneer Electronics USA and to be announced Thursday by Samsung are priced two-to-three times as high at $1,800 and about $1,000, respectively.Comment:This tallies with what I've heard, and it's why I've become increasingly sceptical (or skeptical) about Sony's PS3 story over the past couple of months. I'd love to believe Sony will be shipping millions of $499 games consoles with built in Blu-ray players in the next few months, but if so, it must either have an amazingly cheap source of Blu-ray drives or unsuspected amounts of cash to subsidise PS3 sales. Throw in a Cell processor that costs $100-$150 to make and it looks even more unlikely.And if Pioneer, Samsung and other Blu-ray backers believe Sony's PS3 story, you have to wonder why they think they can sell standalone Blu-ray players at $1,000 or more each....
Tony Walsh atClickable Culture's got a great story on virtual world Second Life's latest "punishment" for wayward residents.Nimrod Yaffle, a resident of the virtual world Second Life, has revealed details of a bizarre and dark prison Second Life's maker Linden Lab is now using to lock up criminal avatars. Dubbed the "The Corn Field," the moonlit environment contains only rows of corn, two television sets, an aging tractor and a one-way teleport terminal allowing no escape. It exists as an alternative to standard disciplinary measures, which traditionally prevent access to Second Life completely.This isn't the first time that owners Linden Lab have caused a stir in the rapidly increasing community. While a notoriously level-headed company that chooses to leave its flock of 100,000+ users on avery loose lead, in recent months news has emerged that they're not as libertarian as they seem.Peter Ludlow, author of the Second Life Herald,reportedlate last year that some do-wrongers in the virtual world were beinghanded overto the US' FBI.After a group of players crashed the world's virtual grid, CEO Philip Rosedale laid his bombshell:Bedecked in a red Santa's cap and blue shirt, [Rosedale] danced around a roaring bonfire set for the occasion and said, "This seems about a good a time as any to tell you that I am turning over names to the FBI."Ludlow is the same man responsible for reporting on theemerged depravityin EA's ill-fated online world The Sims Online, and the same mankicked offthe world for reporting on it.In more virtual world clamp-down news, World of Warcraft creators Blizzard recentlybanneda whopping 18,000 accounts for cheating, and the ever-engagingRen Reynoldsdiscusses the implications for online gamers over onTerra Novaas the final curtain falls on Asheron's Call 2.The role of the game gods (developers) is tricky in these situations, particularly because they knowingly and willingly create their products so millions of people can connect and communities can emerge. It's often a sad outcome of the digital utopian dream that utopian ideals are thwarted by decisions made by people from above.Thanks Paul for the tip-off!
Microsoft has now put on-demand (wmv) videos of Gates's CES keynote onlinehere. It's about 90 minutes, but includes the CES intro and a Microsoft video puff before before Gates appears.Engadgetand Microsoft'sRobert Scoblewere among the sites that blogged it live.The demos include a futuristic home/office/airport system with a short bit showing a cool-looking Tablet PC, Windows Vista (Aero Glass, live previews, Flip 3D, Sidebar with gadgets and RSS feed, Sideshow, IE quick tabs, parental controls), Microsoft Flight Simulator, Windows Media Player 11 with new user interface, digital photo album etc; Van Toffler of MTV Networks announcesUrgewith more than two million tracks (with Justin Timberlake); Gateway Tablet PC; big plug for Palm Treo 700w running Windows Mobile; Windows Live Messenger buddy list on a Phillips smartphone with VoIP calls via Windows Live Call Services; HDTV; Windows Media Center; plug for Intel Viiv and a small Averatec PC; Toshiba Gigabeat and LG Electronics widescreen Portable Media Player; Starz new Vongo service and a Portable Media Player; HD DVD for PC; Media Center PC with built in cable TV support (DirecTV, Sky); Dell digital cable receiver with a Cox Cable card; an external HD DVD will be available for the Xbox 360; EA's Fight Night Round 3.Gates and Steve Ballmer have a fight (as Ali v Frazier). "C'mon, Bill, 30 years I've been training for this opportunity," says Ballmer. "You've got the weight on me, I give you that," Bill replies. Gates wins and Ballmer throws in his controller.
So, if you prevailed, here are the answers toyesterday's quiz questions...17) RJ-11. The familiar "phone jack" plug used in the US, confusingly used here to send over the high-speed stuff rather than plain voice (here, we have the BT plug for the latter). Not to be confused, of course, with the slightly larger RJ-45 Ethernet plug; you'll never get either to sit right in the wrong socket (without force) and they won't speak the right language anyway.18) Assembly. It is, when you think about it, the closest that you'll get to speaking the same language as the machine, unless you turn it right into 001110111s, in which case you're more likely some kind ofadvanced robot..Want to have a look back at the whole quiz?Start here, and click on the "Challenges" hyperlink.That's all - tell us what you thought of the quiz, and whether you want more (or fewer). Hard? Too hard? Too easy? We'dlike to know.
