Assassin's Creed IIIis full of surprises. Perhaps the biggest is that its much-publicised new protagonist, half-Native American Connor, isn't the only character you'll be controlling as gamers slaughter their way across the new world. Keeping that zinger under wraps was an impressive feat in an age of internet rumours and spoilers.For returning players, Ubisoft's latest feels equal parts reassuringly familiar and dauntingly new. The hallmarks remain: free-running around cities, blending into crowds, scaling the highest vantage points and diving into convenient haystacks. Everything just feels a touch more refined now. There are exceptions: new elements, including firearms, sometimes feel poorly implemented.However, the scale here is far greater than in previous adventures. Apart from early sections that blend tutorials seamlessly (if somewhat slowly) into the narrative, this could broadly be considered an open world game, making it considerably different to its predecessors. With the meticulously researched cities of Boston and New York to explore, an expansive wilderness between them and gripping sea battles,Assassin's Creed&nbsp;IIIhas a lot to offer – and its flaws are few and forgivable.
There's something quaintly touching about the spectacle of two publishing conglomerates – Bertelsmann and Pearson – arranging for their book-publishing arms (Random House and Penguin respectively) tohuddle together for warmthagainst the icy blasts coming from California (Google and Apple) and Seattle (Amazon). When the deal (which still has to be approved by regulators) was announced, there was the usual corporate guff about "synergies" – aka job losses – and about how the new partnership will be"the world's leading publishing house", which will give it "the upper hand" in its dealings with Apple and Amazon.Ho, ho. In the long view of history, the Bertelsmann-Pearson deal will be seen as just the latest instalment of a long-running story: a tale of formerly dominant industries trying to prevent their venerable business models being dismantled by the internet. The early victims were travel agents, record labels, newspapers, magazines and broadcast networks.In each case, the relevant executives could be heard loudly declaring that while it was indeed the case that the guys "over there" (gesturing in the direction of some other industry) were being disintermediated by the network, nevertheless the speaker's own industry was special and therefore immune from technological contagion. Universities and book publishers have been arguing like this for quite a while. The Bertelsmann-Pearson deal suggests that the publishers have finally heard the tocsin. Universities haven't got the message yet.The funny thing about the publishing industry is that long before it was really threatened by the internet it was busily rearranging itself so as to make it more vulnerable to it. The process was vividly described by sociologist John Thompson in his bookMerchants of Culture, the best account we have of what happened to publishing. As Professor Thompson tells it, the transformation of the industry occurred in three phases. In the first, the retail environment changed as large chains (Barnes &amp; Noble, Waterstones, Borders et al) supplanted independent bookstores. This created a new phenomenon – the mass-market hardback. Second, a new breed of aggressive literary agent appeared, poaching authors and leaning on publishers for unsustainable advances for the aforementioned hardbacks. And finally, large public corporations (think Bertelsmann, Pearson, News Corp) started acquiring the smallish publishing houses that once constituted the bulk of the industry, in the process transforming something that was once based on private ownership, long-term thinking, the nurturing of authors and backlists into an industry driven predominately by the obsession of stock markets with short-term (ie quarterly) results.Thus publishing turned into an industry that was inordinately reliant on blockbuster products to deliver the results that Wall Street demanded. The result was a market characterised by what statisticians call apower-law distribution– ie one in which a relatively small number of products sell in enormous volume while a "long tail" of other products sell in relatively modest quantities. The physical world of high street shops can't handle a long tail for the simple reason that shelf-space costs money. Every book has to earn its rent. But internet outfits such as Amazon don't have any problem handling the long tail; in fact, the company probably makes more from selling non-bestsellers than it does from blockbusters.Which is how we've arrived at the point where our conglomerate publishing giants are getting really scared. They can see themselves heading down the slippery slope that made the record labels prisoners of the Apple iTunes store, except, in this case, for Apple read Amazon.If you think that this might be good news for consumers, think again. Consider, for example, all those people who happily purchase books for their Amazon Kindles. (On the train the other day, five people in my immediate vicinity were reading on them.) The blogosphere was much exercised recently when a blogger, Martin Bekkelund, reported on theplight of a Norwegian woman– identified only as Linn – who found that she had lost all the books she had purchased for her Kindle. The device had been remotely erased by Amazon because of some mysterious "problem" with her account. Mr Bekkelund published the set of increasingly Kafkaesque emails Linn received from Amazon as she tried to find out why she had been victimised in this way. In the end, after the blog post received wide circulation, Linn's Kindle was – just as mysteriously – reloaded with the books she had bought.Except that she hadn't really bought them. All she had done was to buy alicenceto read them on "her" Kindleat Amazon's pleasure. Which makes one wonder how the Trade Descriptions Act might view the company's invitation to "Buy now with 1-Click" on a Kindle book.
It's 9am on a lovely autumn morning at Cern, the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, just outside Geneva. The sun shines on to an open vista of fields and mountains, glistens off nearby lakes. It's an ideal day for cycling, walking, picnicking; almost anything other than messing around with computers in the dark.I am standing in the dark, watching people mess around with computers. Scruffy young men take cables out of plastic carrier bags and plug them into the back of television screens. They connect up keyboards, slot in SD cards, bung long leads into USB jacks. Parcel tape is slathered over stray cords to stick them in place. Somehow, I thought that Cern, the closest thing to a Bond lab on the planet, would be more sophisticated than this.Still, it's not Cern that we're checking out. We're here for something far more basic, and even more exciting. Take a closer look.You will notice that near every terminal sits a small green circuit board. Slightly bigger than a credit card, with cables sprouting out of it like twisted limbs, it resembles a rectangular spider. In fact, it's a computer, busily driving and connecting all the disparate elements around it to create… well, whatever the geeks want it to. Say hello, ladies and gentle-nerds, to theRaspberry Pi.The Raspberry Pi is a robust, cheap (about £25), low-powered programmable computer. It is a British invention that went on sale for the first time in February this year and has been a science sensation, the computing equivalent of tickets to Glastonbury or the Rolling Stones: everyone wants one, not just hardcore fans. Before it even launched, demand for the Pi outran supply, and the day the first 10,000 became available, the distributing websites all crashed. The first ever BBC online video of the RPi – a preview of it, before it went on sale – got more than 800,000 views in a matter of days. Since then, the RPi has shifted almost 500,000 units and is on target to top 1m by Christmas – topped up by purchasers from South America and China who haven't been put off by the import costs which turn the RPi from bargain to just cheapish. It's been used to take photographs of the Earth from near space and snaps of birds in back gardens. And it has united the science community, from primary school teachers to particle physicists, in joyous enthusiasm; mostly because they hope its price, size, software and sturdiness (you can shove it in your pocket without damaging it, supposedly) will make it appeal to kids, and thus lead children into computer programming.So let's see, shall we? From 9am until 5pm, an unremitting stream of young kids wander into the dim room at Cern, look around for a free monitor, and sit down in front of it. They spot a small cat in the right hand top corner of the screen. Someone – an adult, another child – tells them they can make the cat move if they program it to do so. And then the kids do so.Mickal, who's six, is as charming an advert for the RPi as you will ever meet. "Watch the cat," he says. "He can dance." He drags and drops commands across the screen. The cat walks and turns around in circles. Later, he shows me that he can switch some tiny lights on and off using the RPi. "Press N and enter," he says. "Now N, space and enter."Nancy, seven, is also enjoying herself. She's given the cat a friend, a horse who makes odd noises, gallops into walls and bounces back. "We don't have a computer at school, except sometimes for maths. I don't play computer at home either. I like drawing. And I like this."Nearby, Thomas, seven, is having a go too. Is he enjoying himself? "I like it a little bit," he says. "It's fun, but sometimes when you get a bit stuck, it gets annoying, and you want to do something else." He looks a little wistfully at the door, and at the bright sunshine beyond.Six-year-old Mickal and his father show Miranda Sawyer a few of the Raspberry Pi’s tricks at the Cern programming event. Photograph: François Wavre/Rezo.chSince the RPi's launch, it has had almost perfect press, and you would have to be a far more cynical hack than I am to scoff at its ideals. Its developers are six highly qualified Cambridge-based scientists, and its principles are pure of heart. TheRaspberry Pi Foundationis a charity whose sole aim is to promote the study of computer science in schools; the Raspberry Pi was born from that aim. If the foundation had been a business rather than a charity, the original six could have retired by now.The geek buzz around the RPi – let's not forget it's been around less than a year – has been phenomenal. Now there are events like the one at Cern held all over the place: Manchester, Machynlleth, Silicon Valley, Singapore. Called Raspberry jams (do you see?), and not officially endorsed by the foundation, they're essentially just local people getting together and sharing knowledge about the RPi. Here at Cern, on the Swiss-French border, organiser Dr William Bell is concerned with the lack of computer science in local schools (his kids attend a French primary which, at the moment, doesn't have a working computer for the children to use). Thus his jam involves teachers, kids and parents. Others have been more grown up, with lectures and demonstrations, people standing in front of large screens, making jokes in computer code.The jams are just one of the RPi-inspired offshoots that have sprung up since the launch. The point of the RPi is that, contrary to most of today's computers, it doesn't come bundled with everything you require. To make it work, you need a keyboard, a screen, an SD memory card, a vast array of cables… So RPi packages have become available, enabling you to buy all those accessories in one go. And if you don't want to program the operating system on to the memory card, there are pre-programmed ones available. If you don't like the idea of it knocking about without a case, several people have designed those.More interestingly, there are now add-on boards that expand the Pi's capabilities, to make it easier to use for physical computing and give it functions like driving motors, making lights flash, turning your Lego man into an actual moving robot. These include the Gertboard, designed by a member of the Raspberry Pi Foundation team (called Gert). AndPi-Face, which is similar, though slightly easier to use (no soldering required), and is the baby of Dr Andrew Robinson of Manchester University.Robinson, a friendly, funny man, tells me about the bird box some of his students have designed using an RPi and Pi-Face; the box has an infrared light beam, so the RPi knows when a bird is coming in and out and can activate a camera or send you a message. Robinson also uses his RPi outside work; at the moment he has one at the centre of a theatre show. The RPi syncs interactive projections with lighting and sound, which all respond to the movements of the dancers.What else? Manchester University is running the Great British Raspberry Pi Bake Off, a competition for kids to design an exciting use for the RPi; it's sending out RPis and Pi-Faces to the developing world, places like Bangalore and Kenya, where the RPi has caused a sensation but has been hard to come by. "I don't think the Pi is going to change the world," says Robinson. "But it has opened stuff up, and created an excitement around programming that I've never seen before."The creators of the RPi are of a generation that playedwith, rather than on, computers. Their first consoles were BBC Micros, Commodore 64s, Spectrum ZXs: beige boxes with limited power that offered limited built-in entertainment. In order to really enjoy yourself, you had to tinker about with what your computer could do: change some of the coding and see what happened. If you could do that, you could bring that programming skill to any other computer. But once computers improved, became more powerful and better to play games on, they became harder to program. The tinkering aspect was lost, and this affected swaths of schoolchildren: they just didn't come into contact with programming, even though they had more access to computers, better games consoles, lessons in ICT.Eben Upton, a friendly, upbeat man (everyone involved with the RPi is friendly) is a designer of microchips forBroadcomand the main designer of the RPi. In the early- to mid-2000s, he was in charge of undergraduate admissions to computer science at Cambridge. He noticed a massive drop-off in the numbers and, especially, quality of undergraduates between 1996, when he graduated, and 2005."The students just couldn't program, and that's because they hadn't been in the presence of programmable hardware," he says. "It's not so much an education as an environment thing. I was self-taught, so were all of my friends. But in the consumer device world we're in today, where the majority of devices are tablets and phones and set-top boxes and games consoles… these are all machines that you can use to consume, but most of them won't let you produce."Everyone I speak to about the RPi is insistent that anyone can code, whether or not you're good at maths. Bell, at Cern, says it's like messing around with a motorbike. "You spend your time taking it apart, putting it back together. Only by doing that will you understand how the engine works."Upton defines programming as "breaking problems down into manageable pieces", and the RPi, when you boot it up, has a couple of programming languages already in place: Scratch, which is the basic one with the cat, and the more sophisticated Python, which, once you've mastered it, leads you to pretty much any programming language you want. "The Pi isn't just a magic box that does stuff," says Eben. "You can start Python, enter six letters and straight away, you're in a programming environment."All of which sounds terrific, and terrifically exciting. Modern kids love computers, so why wouldn't they love programming? Well… The most identifiable characteristic of the computing genius is that he (it's usually a he) is Other. In the new Bond filmSkyfall, Ben Wishaw's Q is as cute as can be, with his specs and wayward fringe, but he is, essentially, the lofty opposite of hero Bond. Q sits in a dark room looking at a screen; Bond runs around hitting people and snogging.This divide isn't new; it's in every school you go to. The nerds hang in the computer room during break time and make obscure jokes; the jocks run around hitting things and trying to chat up girls. There are other cliques – those who cluster in the art room, the alternative music crew – but it seems to me that, admirable though the foundation's intentions are, they'll find it hard to convince many teenagers that programming is for anyone other than geeks. Even if they do get RPis in there early.Eben admits that this is something he and his compadres think about a lot. He (and the rest of the foundation) is aware that, so far, about 80% of RPis have been sold "to geeks like me".The Raspberry Pi was designed to be cheap enough that all youngsters might have a chance to learn programming. Photograph: Phil Fisk for the Observer"We don't want to end up entrenching all the advantages that are already there," he says. "There is a fixed-size pie – sorry, but it's the best word – which consists of white, male, middle-class people who are good at maths. Let's say that pie is divided up into particle physicists, investment bankers and computer scientists, which are all careers that are dominated by white, male, middle-class people who are good at maths. If you're not careful, then all you're doing is moving the dividers around that pie of people. What we need to do is expand the pie itself."In his day job, designing computer chips at Broadcom, Upton insists that he doesn't use a tremendous amount of maths: "My job is more of a craft." And he thinks that emphasising the craft element of programming might help with that stubbornly non-expanding pie – particularly with girls. What the Raspberry Pi Foundation doesn't want to do is what he calls "painting it pink" – meaning trying to appeal to girls in a trivial way.There's another pie-growing aspect, he thinks, within the vast sector of teenage boys who love computer games. "There are loads of boys between 12 and 16 who would love to step up to the next level and actually create their own games. But there's no obvious route, and I say that as someone who set up a computer games company straight out of university." Now, he would just tell such lads to go and get an RPi, play around with it for a couple of years and then take their portfolio to a games company.Another tricky thing about the Raspberry Pi is teaching. It has been pretty convincingly proven that the ICT classes of the 1990s did nothing much more than produce students who would make good secretaries; today's emphasis on online isn't useful either. (As Eben puts is: "The not particularly helpful skill that students have has changed from being able to use PowerPoint to being able to build a website.") But how can teachers teach students computer programming if they don't know how to do it themselves?"It's ridiculous to ask teachers to teach stuff they don't feel confident about," agrees Eben. "We need to make teachers feel comfortable." Yet, he admits, if teachers are trained to be great programmers, then they'll just leave teaching and go and earn loads more money. "So we have to find a way to make this stuff deliverable by non-specialists." To this end, the foundation – along with many other associations, such asCode Club– has been encouraging computer engineers to help enthusiastic teachers set up after-school&nbsp;clubs.And what about parents? I'm white, female, middle class and studied maths and further maths (not very well) at A-level: I wouldn't have a clue what to do if my kid came to me with a programming problem. Upton admits that here, too, the RPi isn't perfect, yet."At the moment, we can deliver a really satisfying educational experience in a supervised environment, say where an adult or older child who really knows about computing is looking over a young child who doesn't. The real challenge is delivering to people like you, people who aren't natural-born computer programmers who can answer every question a kid has without even thinking about it. The Pi has to work in a computer-phobic environment. I think it's doable. And it's absolutely key."The Raspberry Pi isn't perfect, but that's a decision made by its creators. As much as it can be, the RPi is open: its software is open, and so is its attitude – unlike, say the closed, smooth perfection of Apple. The RPi's creators welcome suggestions, and understand that this is a work in progress that can only be moved along by the contributions of other enthusiasts."Upton tells me to wait a few months before buying an RPi, because in that time, the foundation will overhaul the software that comes bundled with it, especially Scratch, so that it is faster and more stable. (They've already put more RAM into the RPi, increasing it to 512MB; and recently announced that every piece of RPi software is now open source, meaning unhidden and accessible.) Also – and this seems key to me – RPi will be bringing out teaching materials.In the end, though, you can lead kids to the RPi, but you can't make them all code. And that's fine. Because some will become obsessed. One of the many, many online videos on RPi was made by George, nine, who has a blog calledMy Journey With Java. He made it in August and it shows him putting leads into his RPi and talking through what each one does. As he puts in the power cable, he breaks off a shiny silver part of the Pi. If George were my child, I'd hand him some Blu-Tak. George just tweets the video to the Pi Foundation and they get back to him and tell him what to do.
In a world of polished computers, the Raspberry Pi has arrived to remind us that, with nothing more than time, patience and an exposed circuit board, you can create almost anything. Here are a few of the projects RPi pioneers have devised over the past year.1. NIXIE CLOCKnixieclock.co.ukYou will needan RPi and SD card, a self-assemblyNixie Clock kit(or digital clock capable of accepting GPS or microcontroller data), a  Wi-Fi dongle or ethernet cable.Nixie tube clocks, with their neon digits, are popular with nostalgic electronics fans. One such enthusiast,  Martin Oldfield, has built a clock that receives Network Time Protocol data from the internet via the RPi, and is accurate to ten-thousandths of a second.Online instructions:mjo.tc/atelier/2012/08/ntp-nixie. htmlDifficulty: 42. ROBOT SLAVEYou will needan RPi and SD card, and (for a voice-recognition robot) a USB robotic arm, a USB microphone, a USB hub and voice-recognition software such asJulius.Robots are a talking point across the RPi forums. One precocious aerospace engineer has used an RPi to run a voice-recognition program and now has arobotic armliterally at his command, while another developer has built"Roberta", a highly sophisticated two-wheeled RPi robot who perpetually responds to gyroscopes to balance herself.Difficulty8-103. WEATHER STATIONYou will needan RPi and SD card, a home weather-station, a monitor and a USB cable.Britain's amateur meteorologists are already using the RPi  to process weather data, highlighting once again the immediate, perhaps unsurprising proclivity felt by the hobbyist community for the tiny computer. With the RPi, having a single computer dedicated to a weather station is neither extravagant nor physically awkward, and severaltutorialsalready exist to explain the necessary coding to prepare a web-accessible, personalised weather forecast.Difficulty34. ROCKET LAUNCHERdreamcheeky.comYou will needan RPi and SD card, a powered USB hub, a USB rocket launcher.This  invention is designed to intimidate and humiliate co-workers who make mistakes while writing code. When set up in an office environment, the RPi  detects errors in software development and automatically fires a foam missile at the offending employee. The program, nicknamed Retaliation, is described by its creator as working on "a deep psychological level to offer productivity improvements". Itscredentialsare listed online, with avideoshowing it in action.Difficulty45. PORTABLE/IN-CAR PCYou will needan RPi and SD card, an adapted power supply to run off a dashboard cigarette lighter or a battery pack and a small monitor.It is said that Julian Assange used to travel with a desktop PC in his rucksack.  He could have done  with the RPi, which weighs 45g (1.6oz) and can be adapted to function as a portable or in-car computer. One motorist has already linked up hisRPi to a nifty sliding screen, and several others are working on ways of accessorising their dashboards to incorporate RPi-run GPS and media systems.Difficulty2-76. JUKEBOXYou will needan RPi and SD card, a mini-speaker, a powered USB hub, a USB battery, various free media software.The giddy hope of building an iPod replacement from an RPi has yet to be completely realised, but a French computer science lecturer named Tarek Ziadé has designed a portable, self-contained jukebox which can be controlled remotely from other computers. Hiswebsitedispenses coding tips so the end product can run smoothly, and he has built a Lego case to contain the components.Difficulty77. RADIOYou will needan RPi and SD card, a USB Wi-Fi adapter, various free media software, a battery-powered speaker and an Adafruit "Cobbler" (see glossary, right below).The proliferation of internet radio stations allows those with even the most outlandish music tastes to find their fellows out there in cyberspace. One exhaustive blogger named contractorwolf has built a successful RPi radio which shuffles between his favourite stations at the touch of a button. Hearteningly, he had no experience of programming in Linux before he built his radio so there is hope for the rest of us.Difficulty68. ARCADE GAMEYou will needan RPi and SD card, a monitor, a cabinet to contain them, gaming software.Shea Silverman of Florida has demonstrated his love of vintage video games by building an RPi into a miniature replica of an arcade game circa 1991, complete with a fully functioning version ofStreet Fighter II. Thousands of old arcade games have been preserved through an application calledMAME, andSilverman's blogoutlines how to install MAME on the RPi as well as some more recent games includingCave StoryandQuake III.Difficulty 39. BABY MONITORGetty ImagesYou will needan RPi and SD card, a webcam with microphone, an ethernet cable or Wi-Fi dongle.The keenest parents on the internet are scrambling todesign the first RPi-powered baby monitorwith a live audio and video stream so they can check on their offspring from the office. The most enterprising have suggested plugging the RPi into the TV, so if you hear a cry through the speaker, you can simply flip over to the "baby channel" rather than go all the way upstairs.Difficulty710. HOME-BREWED BEERYou will needan RPi and SD card, an Arduino, temperature sensors, a fridge, yeast, hops.Making beer is a delicate process requiring vigilance and tenacity. During fermentation, if your beer slips one degree above or below the correct temperature, the whole batch will be spoiled and it's back to square one. Which is why a Dutchman named Elco Jacobs has designed an intricate program, run off the RPi, to detect the temperature of his nascent brews and automatically correct the temperature of his fridge accordingly. BrewPi is an open-source project so there is awebsitewith in-depth instructions explaining how to adapt the RPi and build the program, which includes a function by which you can track the progress of your beer and even adapt the temperature over the internet. Jacobs himself has already set about creating his first computer-moderated beer, which he plans to name Raspbian Wheaty.Difficulty 711. BIRDBOXYou will needan RPi and SD card, a Pi-Face (see glossary), 2 infrared LEDs and two light detectors, a small webcam and a wooden box with a  compartment to contain the RPi.The students and staff of the University of Manchester's Computer Science department, the Raspberry Pi's most innovative trailblazers, have designed a DIY nesting box which can photograph birds and amalgamate data relating to their behaviour. They have even written a function which can send you a tweet whenever a bird enters or leaves the box. Their online video shows the finished birdbox and explains how to power the RPi and the Pi-Face as well as providing them with internet access using only one ethernet cable.Difficulty512. NEAR-SPACE CRAFTYou will needan RPi and SD card, a hydrogen balloon, a USB webcam, a GPS, a heatsink, a battery pack, permission from the Civil Aviation Authority.As keen on puns as it is on programming, the RPi community has produced nothing so spectacular as the Pi in the Sky, a huge hydrogen balloon carrying an RPi to an altitude of 40,000 metres  – a full kilometre higher than the top of Felix Baumgartner'sRed Bull Stratos descent. Thanks to a webcam, it boasts the highest live images – picked up by receivers run by zealous enthusiasts all over the country – ever recorded during an unmanned amateur flight.  Designed by Dave Akerman and friends, it was launched in Berkshire, and after its balloon burst at the edge of space, the RPi "safely landed in long grass" somewhere near Didcot. If the wiring and programming, itemised onAkerman's website, seem too dauntingly complex,  the flight should at least illustrate the  possibilities available to any RPi fanatics whimsical enough to pursue them.Difficulty9GLOSSARYAdafruit "Cobbler"A special printed circuit board with a ribbon cable, custom-designed to simplify the Raspberry Pi's otherwise fiddly and confusing hardware pins.ArduinoA microcontroller computer which, combined with the Raspberry Pi, allows you to control a wider range of hardware.HeatsinkA hardware component which helps cool the computer and keep it stable.LinuxA secure open-source  operating system which runs on the RPi  in a distribution package called Debian. A version of Debian calledRaspbianhas  already been developed with modifications specific to the RPi.Open-sourceOpen-source software is software which is distributed with accessible and visible source code so that you can see how it works and even adapt it yourself.Pi-Face:An interface chip designed by the University of Manchester to improve the RPi's auxiliary capabilities.SD cardThe hard-drive of an RPi is provided by an SD card, which must be bought separately.USB hubA splitter to turn the RPi's single USB port into as many as you need.
New games on release includeMedal Of Honor: Warfighter(PC, PS3, Xbox 360), Electronic Arts' hackneyed attempt at a spoiler for this month's Call Of Duty;Zero Escape: Virtue's Last Reward(3DS, Vita), a tale of horror and betrayal with interesting and well-designed puzzles;Dark Souls: Prepare To Die Edition(Xbox, PS3) adds an extra 10 hours of monster slaying and the player vs player arena previously only available on PC;Assassin's Creed III: Liberationis a Vita-exclusive adventure taking the 18th-century fight against the Templars to New Orleans, taking in the series' first female protagonist;Doom 3 BFG Edition(Xbox, PS3, PC) is a retread of the 2004 release whose puny weapons and one-trick gloomy monster safari will forcibly remove any nostalgia you still harbour for the franchise andOkami HD(PS3) brings its extravagant Japanese watercolour to PlayStation 3.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe Professor's annual outing is by now routine, taking in charming hand-drawn artwork and gentlemanly conduct from Layton and his youthful assistant, Luke, this time joined by chipper tag-along, Emmy.Pursuing a mysterious masked criminal who seems to be turning tourists to stone and bringing paintings to life, you progress by solving a succession of lightly brain-teasing puzzles. The 3D looks lovely, challenges feel fresh and despite how well-worn the Professor's schtick is becoming, it works well enough that you can't feel too miffed about its almost total absence of innovation.Nintendo, £29.99
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewWhile structurally similar to Forza Horizon with its public roads, bonus-giving speed cameras, oncoming traffic and GPS-guided cruises between events, the action couldn't be more different.In Need For Speed: Most Wanted, races are won through a combination of luck, aggression and wild, seat-of-the-pants driving as you weave your way to victory by fair means and foul. Its heart-pounding race events segue into police chases that encourage you to explore dirt-track shortcuts, railway lines and goods yards in an effort to lose your "heat". Made by the same developer as the awesome Burnout series, it's a raucous, dangerous-driving masterpiece.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewMankind's unlikely, hoodie-wearing saviour, Desmond Miles, continues to explore his ancestral memories, this time participating in the American revolution.That means hobnobbing with Samuel Adams, Ben Franklin and chums while defending Native American rights and bumping off Templars and redcoats. Several times the size of past instalments and with a far deeper plot, its characters are ruthless and believable, inhabiting a land in a state of lawless flux. Its countless joyous diversions from a round of Nine Men's Morris to missions in New York skyscrapers round out an epic of a game.Ubisoft, £29.99-£39.99
Inlast week's columnI was waxing lyrical – well, waxing – about the benefits of a panoramic glass roof if you're travelling with a&nbsp;baby lying in a backwards-facing car seat. They can't see out of the windows, so a glass roof gives them a view of sky at least, trees, streetlights, the world outside.This is even better: a roof that, in under 10 seconds, disappears altogether. Perfect for a trip west out of London to visit Granny Deirdre, with the skies filled with interest – reintroduced raptors, planes leaving and arriving at Heathrow, etc. Perhaps his first words will be "red kite" or "Airbus A380".Just one problem: it doesn't appear to be summer any more. Bit chilly back there is it? And draughty? Well, it's probably character building, like public school – isn't that Eton over there? This is like that, only more fun, because it's not only a convertible, it's a GTI too. Look, we're practically keeping up with the A380, leaving the kites for dead.Volkswagen hasn't done one of these – a cabriolet GTI – since the Mark 1, back in 1492. Maybe the thinking was that they don't appeal to serious petrol-head hot hatch nuts who'll resent the weight gain (a soft top is heavier) and the loss of&nbsp;stiffness that comes with a cabriolet. And the sort of posy Sloane Ranger types who like open-top Golfs don't require blistering performance.There is something in that. Most people probably wouldn't notice much difference in the driving experience from the regular GTI, but being a Famous Motoring Journalist I can detect a slight drop-off in the throw-it-into-the-corners fun factor with a proportional little dip in serotonin levels.Nor does it looks so good, certainly not with the top up. Convertible hatchbacks look a bit like prams, don't you think? I know it is being a big pram – albeit a very quick one – at the moment. But that doesn't mean I want to look like I'm driving a pram, OK?Plus, it costs about £3,000 more than the regular GTI. Bringing the total to nearly £30,000. THIRTY EFFING THOUSAND POUNDS, for a&nbsp;Golf! That's just barmy.Yeah, but on the other hand, it is nice isn't it? Especially with the roof down, which brings those serotonin levels back up. It looks better topless too (unlike the driver, boom boom). Hmm, maybe I do want one after all.And thirty grand's not that much, is it? Just about the same as a year's fees at that school over there by all accounts. So maybe we'll postpone his lordship in the back's entry by a year, and with the savings get one of these. No of course I'm not serious;&nbsp;this is the Guardian, right?Golf GTI CabrioletPriceFrom £29,310Top speed147mphAcceleration0-62mph in 7.3 secondsCombined fuelconsumption37.2mpgCO2emissions177g/kmEcorating4/10Cool rating7/10
It's time for our weekly roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps released this week on Apple's App Store, and this one's a bumper selection.As ever, the list doesn't include games, as they get their own separate post:this week's picksincluded iOS titles like Need for Speed: Most Wanted, Bubble Island, Hellfire, Gizmonauts and ARC Squadron.Android apps get their own separate post, whichcan be found here. Windows Phone has a monthly roundup, with thelatest edition found here.On with this week's iOS apps!Jamie Magazine (Free)Celebri-chef Jamie Oliver has his own magazine, and now it's available on iOS as well as in print. Individual issues are sold for £2.99 or £3.99 via in-app purchases, or you can subscribe. Expect recipes galore, with the latest issue focusing on Christmas cooking.iPhone / iPadOnavo Count (Free)Onavo has become an essential iPhone download thanks to its ability to compress the data you use, and thus eke out your monthly allowance further. Now the company behind it has a new app, which helps you understand which apps are sucking up data, breaking down usage over the month, with pretty graphs.iPhoneSummly (Free)Summly promises "pocket sized news for iPhone", trawling hundreds of news sites, pulling in articles from their RSS feeds, then turning them into 400-character summaries, which can be flipped through using a neat gestural interface. For more on the company behind it's intentions,read our interview.iPhonein:play (£1.49)If you're pondering an alternative to the default iPhone music player, in:play is well worth a look. Not least because of its striking typography-focused design, gestural controls and some seriously nifty navigation to root through even the largest digital music collection.iPhoneBrian Cox's Wonders of the Universe (£3.99)Scientist Brian Cox's planetary app has been out for a while on iPad, but now publisher HarperCollins has released a native iPhone version too, boiling down its text, videos and photography to something that works well on smaller screens.iPhoneHowDo (Free)This is very neat: an app "to show you how to do stuff in the real world", with the tutorials coming from other people using the HowDo app. The idea being that you can shoot photos, associate up to eight-second sound recordings with them, and then share them with the community, following other users who seem knowledgable.iPhoneThreadlife (Free)Threadlife is picking up a fair bit of buzz this week, thanks to its aim to make "shooting video as easy as taking photos". That involves shooting three-second video clips, which are then "stitched" together into longer stories, or "threads", including your own videos and/or those of other users.iPhoneViz Profanisaurus Das Krapital £1.49Dennis Publishing pleased fans of Viz with the launch of its Profanisaurus iPhone app earlier in 2012. Now there's an iPad version of the sweary dictionary, offering 12,000 definitions too rude to read to your grandparents.iPadPath (Free)Social app Path has fervent fans, who love its status as a more private version of Facebook and other services. It's traditionally been a smartphone thing, but now it's available on iPad too, with bigger photos and film/music/book previews, as well as the ability to see your whole day's posts in an attractive landscape view. It makes very good use of the larger screen.iPadJames Bond: 50 Years of Movie PostersAs cinemagoers get excited about the new Bond film Skyfall, there's an app from DK showcasing some of the poster art that promoted previous films. 105 posters are featured, with accompanying text from "Bond expert" (now that's a job worth having) Alastair Dougall.iPhone / iPadWreck-It Ralph Storybook Deluxe (£4.99)Talking of movies, Disney has launched an iOS book-app for its animated film Wreck-It Ralph, which tells the story for children with voice narration, animation, clips from the film and a racing game where kids get to build their own kart.iPhone / iPadHappy Places by Coca-Cola (Free)This is pretty surprising: a photo-sharing app from Coca-Cola, with a clean and stylish design, and the ability to share shots out to Facebook or Twitter, as well as Coke's own Happy Places community. The question is whether this kind of branded app will tempt anyone away from Instagram, Facebook Camera, Path and other popular apps.iPhoneBubble Guppies: Animal School Day (£1.99)There are a number of big entertainment companies getting into app-education (appducation?), with MTV the latest. Its new app aims to teach children about animals: what they're like, where they live, and what they eat. Rewards, a doghouse to decorate and the option to register up to four children separately with the app should be a hit with parents.iPhone / iPadLinkTV World News (Free)iPad app LinkTV has a focus on international news, aggregating videos from broadcasters around the world tied to topical events, as well as text articles, documentaries and personalisation features.iPad18 Months (Free)Calvin Harris has a new album out, and there's an app for that. And unusually, the app lets fans stream the album in full, with one caveat: they have to dance. A simple yet fun motion-detecting feature ensures that songs will play as long as the user is dancing – or at least moving the phone.iPhoneThe xx (Free)The xx's last album Coexist has a very slinky iOS app that's just come out, offering high-definition videos for every song on the album, interactive artwork, and the promise of messages and news from the band, as well as ticketing details.iPhone / iPadJunior Astronaut - Breaking through the space barrier (Free)This is another excellent education app for children, this time from UK firms Immediate Media and Crank Publishing. Aimed at 9-15 year-olds, it focuses on space travel: rockets, gravity and other topics, with a look and feel inspired by children's space books from the 1950s and 60s. It's free, with an in-app purchase of £3.99 unlocking the whole book-app.iPadOakley Airwave (Free)This one's for snow-sports fans, claiming to be "the perfect app to enhance your day on the mountain". It tracks your alpine stats, connects to friends and syncs with Oakley's new Airwave goggles' innovative heads-up display.iPhoneMonogram (Free)Described as "a shoppable magazine for your iPad", Monogram blends editorial with shopping links – "everything you can see, you can purchase". Like most fashion mags, really, but of course the key thing here is that the buying is built into the magazine. Monogram is a hint at how many of the more established fashion magazines will develop in their digital incarnations.iPadHuffPost Live (Free)This is only available in the US for now, but it's an interesting sign of the way Huffington Post is developing: "a live-streaming video network that uses the most engaging stories on The Huffington Post as the jumping-off point for real-time conversations and commentary". The idea being that readers (viewers? users?) join in with the debates.iPadBeamr (Free)Beamr sounds like a novelty at first, turning your photos into "a glossy-style magazine with a custom cover". But look closer, and there's a much better hook here: the ability to share photos at their original resolutions as shot on the iPhone, including the new panoramic shots. People you share them with can view, download and print the pics, too.iPhoneCreatorverse (£2.99)Linden Lab's main business is virtual world Second Life, but you won't see any 3D avatars in its new iPad app. Instead, this is a playful physics app that gets you to create... things, using joints, motors, forces, teleporters and other items. Then watch them in motion: "From the simplest bouncing ball to an elaborate pinball machine".iPadDJZ TxT (Free)DJZ is a brand new website devoted to dance music (or, as the US would have it, "EDM"). It has just launched, with a spin-off app that isn't about presenting the site's content at all. Instead, it's a messaging app with the twist that you can include graphical "emojis" (emoticons) that act as beats and loops. "Every conversation is a new remix," notes the App Store listing. Which sounds silly, but it's actually enormous fun.iPhoneThoughtful Gift Finder (Free)When you've finished making dubstep-scronk messages, how about thinking of someone else for a change? Thoughtful Gift Finder does exactly what its name implies: released by Notonthehighstreet.com, it's a way to research gifts for friends and family, based on some of their key characteristics. More than 60,000 products are covered.iPhoneSooty Paint (£1.99)Sooty is 64 now, y'know. He's making his first appearance in an iPad app though, along with friends Sweep, Soo and Richard from his TV show. The app focuses on digital painting, with 20 pictures for children to colour in, and a blank canvas to come up with their own creations.iPadPC Pro Enhanced (Free)Another app from Dennis Publishing, but this time with less swearing and more computers. A digital version of PC Pro magazine, it includes more photography and podcast snippets alongside kit reviews, as well as product comparison features. The app charges £9.99 a quarter for the digital issues.iPadHotUKDeals (Free)British website HotUKDeals gathers discounts, deals and vouchers from a host of retailers and sites. Now it's got an app, which adds location into the mix to pinpoint nearby savings, while also letting you rate and comment on deals, or add those you've found yourself.iPhoneFirst@Scene (Free)This app comes from the Australian branch of St John Ambulance, and wants to help reduce road accident deaths and serious injuries, providing advice for anyone who finds themselves in a position to help after a car crash. Text, photos and revision questions all feature.iPadTrucks - Byron Barton (£0.69)Byron Barton's Trucks book will be familiar to parents around the world: a colourful children's book covering trucks of all shapes and sizes. This is a digitised version of the book, with interactivity and features to help young (2-5) children practise their fledgling reading skills.iPhone / iPadShatoetry (£1.99)And last, something ridiculous: an official app from William Shatner in which the Star Trek veteran has recorded a host of words, which you can then string together into sentences to hear him say them. The idea being you compose poetry (sorry, "Shatisms" – one senses the developer hasn't tested the lingo on Brits), or create them with friends through the app's Game Center integration.iPhoneThat's our selection, but what new iOS apps have you been using this week? Make your recommendations in the comments section.
It's another bumper Best Apps post for new Android apps, covering 30 releases from the last week alone. Heady times for Google-powered devices.The list doesn't include games, as they get their own separate post:this week's selectionincluded Android titles like Need for Speed: Most Wanted, Theme Park, Hellfire, Zombie Driver THD, Chrono Trigger and Zombiewood.iOS apps also get their own post, which can befound here this week. Windows Phone has a monthly roundup – thelatest one is here. For now, here's the pick of the Google Play store from the last week.Xbox SmartGlass (Free)Launched by Microsoft, this is an official companion app for its Xbox 360 console, enabling you to control the device from your Android smartphone – alas, not tablets for now. The app can control TV shows and films, music, web browsing and other features of the console, and in time will also be usable as a second screen for games.Britannica Kids apps (£1.24 each)There are actually nine brand-new Britannica Kids apps available for Android. I'm including them as one entry. The nine apps cover the solar system, Aztec empire, dinosaurs, knights and castles, ancient Rome, snakes, rainforests, volcanoes and ancient Egypt. Their content is a mixture of text, images and interactivity, all aimed at children.Amazon Cloud Drive Photos (Free)Amazon has extended its Cloud Drive storage service out with a new app focusing on photos. It offers 5GB of storage (for free)  to store images in, and access them from Android devices as well as computers. It supports both phones and tablets, and can share to Facebook and email.18 Months (Free)This is the official app for Calvin Harris' new album 18 Months, complete with a nifty feature to play every track in full. It requires some work though: dancing. Well, moving your Android smartphone, anyway: the idea is that by dancing (or waggling the handset) you keep the song playing. Fun and innovative.Snapchat (Free)Snapchat bills itself as "the first real-time picture chatting app", and has been doing rather well on iOS, where its users have shared more than 1bn photos. The idea: send photos to friends with a built-in time limit up to 10 seconds. The photo then wipes itself off the recipient's handset. Ideal for sexting people you don't quite trust, but there must be a few other uses too.The xx (Free)The xx have released a stylish app that lives up to their latest album Coexist, offering "HD Visualiser videos" for every track on the album for fans who own it digitally, as well as interactive artwork, news and notifications from the band, official music videos, lyrics and ticketing info.Bamboo Paper (Free)This app is the work of Wacom, and is designed to work with its Bamboo Stylus accessory. Promising "note taking on your smartphone made easy", it involves scribbling sketches or writing notes which can then be flipped through. Made for Android smartphones, it (kind of) brings them the functionality seen in Samsung's Galaxy Note devices. The stylus costs around £25.Rockford's Musical Audiobooks (Free / £2.99)And more numerical cheating here, since there are four Rockford's Musical Audiobook apps: chapters one to four of children's story Rockford's Rock Opera, with the first available for free, and the other three chapters costing £2.99 each. It's an audiobook with an hour of narrated story, as well as music and pictures. Read more onthe aims behind it here.Belkin MediaPlay (Free)Belkin's new Android app builds on the myTwonky technology, with the aim of helping you pipe films and music from your Android device to a connected TV (via its browser), or play content from your home library on your smartphone or tablet.Game Reward Mobile App (Free)British games retailer Game has had some rough times in 2012, but apps are forming part of its comeback strategy. This ties into Game's loyalty programme, helping you earn points on purchases from the stores, while also offering recommendations. If you add your console gamertags, there may be other "cool stuff" in the future too.Photo Warp+ (Free)More than 14m people have downloaded developer Tonuzaba Entertainment's first Photo Warp app, so this sequel should find a healthy audience. It's all about, yes, warping photos, with a range of effects to play merry havoc with images.Find a Tradesman (Free)This is definitely one of the most useful apps in this week's lineup: released by the Rated People website, it helps you dig into its directory of tradesmen for home improvement jobs, posting what you need done and getting responses from companies or people who can help.BB - Give Thanks (£2.47)The Berenstain Bears books have a firm following among several generations of Christian parents, and they're being digitised as apps by Oceanhouse Media book-by-book. This one focuses on Thanksgiving, with voice narration, audio and words highlighted as they're read out, to help early readers.HotUKDeals – Official (Free)So called because there seem to be plenty of unofficial Android apps pulling down listings from the UK's deals'n'vouchers website. This is its official app, offering vouchers from the likes of Asda, Tesco, Domino's Pizza and Sainsbury's, filtered by location. You can also comment on the offers and tip those you find in the real world.Insync for Android (£1.49)Insync's new app ties in to the Google Drive service, to access documents and other files stored in Google's cloud service, upload new ones, and share with friends and colleagues. All of which you can do in the official Google Drive service. Insync claims a host of additional features though, from exporting files to the SD card in your device, to saving folders for offline use, and streaming music or video files.Antengo Classifieds - Tablet (Free)The native Android tablet apps are coming, as Google encourages developers to think harder about their larger-screened software. Antengo claims to be "reinventing classified listings" in the US, with more than 2m items in its classifieds directory, and an app designed for tablets.Flip Launcher (Free)This is a smartphone app for power Android users who want to save a few precious seconds when navigating to and opening specific apps and shortcuts. The idea here: you flip to them, having set up to 24 as your designated flips.The Montblanc Worldsecond (Free)Luxury watchmaker Montblanc is working on an interesting digital marketing campaign that aims to get people around the world taking photos at the same instant, then making them available to browse. This app helps you do that, with four Instagram-ish filters to apply, uploading pics to the Montblanc Worldsecond site, as well as (if you choose) to Facebook, Twitter and Google+.Goalmaster | Goal Tracker (Free)This is a simple but potentially-useful app focused on tracking goals – of the personal motivation kind, rather than the football kind. You can create entries for your ambitions, then analyse your progress, and share your success (hopefully) on Facebook.
Medal of Honor: Warfighter is EA's second attempt to carve out its own slice of Activision's mighty Call of Duty franchise. In this it is not alone. 2007's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare has been one of the most influential games of recent times, to the extent that "contemporary military FPS" is now gaming's most bloated subgenre. Warfighter is an underwhelming addition.That is not to say it's abysmally terrible, though the critical reception thus far could be politely described as a shoeing. Warfighter is a decent enough game in the COD mould, as these things go, and reproduces its atmosphere and knack for explosive theatrics almost to the beat. The differences, such as they are, come down to minor gunplay tweaks – you can lean out of cover, for example, and slide into it.But in terms of corridor-shooting a bunch of foreigners, you've played Warfighter many times before. The game hops between two special forces operatives who are piecing together an awful plot by shooting loads of terrorists and occasionally driving vehicles very fast.It's a short campaign, clocking in at under five hours, and tries to make up for this by having something explode in slow-motion every 15 minutes. It's also incredibly keen on Call of Duty's "Breach" mechanic, where you smash through a door in slow-motion and headshot multiple balaclava-wearing goons, to the extent that you're continually unlocking different (though functionally identical) breach tools.The problem with Warfighter is that it doesn't have many fresh ideas, and the ones it does are bad. One level, unbelievably, consists of watching a cutscene, then headshotting one dude and watching another cutscene. You don't move an inch. Mounted gun sections, remote-controlled drones, sniping missions, night-vision shootouts, you've done this all before. A Bourne-channeling escape sequence in a beat-up car shows that Warfighter can also ape other media, but as with everything else, the execution is strictly B-list.The multiplayer, at least, shows Medal of Honor getting serious. The online structure here, heavily inspired by Criterion's superb Autolog system, effortlessly outpaces that of Call of Duty and its anaemic Elite. The homepage quickly tracks the types of game you like playing, putting them front-and-centre, while a separate social hub (urgh) tracks friends and clans.The biggest problem with Warfighter online is the bland game itself. The obvious competition is COD and EA's own Battlefield, both of which have a more distinctive identity: the former an arcade-style environment for lone gunners, the latter a much weightier and more team-focussed shooter.Warfighter treads an unhappy line between the two. Its shooting is responsive, and there are all the game modes you'd expect, but there's nothing here that hasn't been done better elsewhere. On top, some parts are just plain odd – in certain multiplayer modes, bizarre interstitials play as the teams 'change ends'. So your grizzled army dudes, who are shooting each other to death, walk all manly-like across the stage, eyeballing each other.It's absolutely nuts, and also sums up a bit of the identity crisis under Warfighter's skin – the reason, in my opinion, why the game's slightly offensive rather than merely another military FPS. There's a great deal of technical talent behind Warfighter, but not much in the way of ambition or imagination. This is why the game is so similar to Call of Duty.Yet, it is marketed as an alternative to Call of Duty, specifically as the 'authentic' alternative. This can be seen from the ex-Tier 1 operatives used as consultants and wheeled out at press events, to the line "inspired by actual events" that appears at the start of most missions, and even to the ridiculous (and withdrawn)pre-order bonus of a Tomahawk. An actual Tomahawk.The game's developer, Danger Close, believes its game is a tribute to the military, specifically America's military. What is offensive about Medal of Honor's posturing in this direction, and it is posturing, is that despite the constant killing, this game is not about war and it is not even about the military. Quite apart from its in-game trivialisation of death, like the red and white headshot icons that pop up after especially juicy shots, Medal of Honor now inhabits a fictional universe where you play a character called Preacher hunting down a terrorist called the Cleric. This is a comic book world.That's the problem. Medal of Honor, let us remember, has heritage. This is a series created way back in the late 90s under the direction of no less than Steven Spielberg himself, with the explicit aim of humanising conflict. 2012's Medal of Honor now has the subtitle Warfighter, and is set in a literally black-and-white world with a B-list script. If that's what you want to make, fine and dandy. But dressing this up in the way that Warfighter's developer and publisher do, as a tribute to the armed forces and the sacrifices of war, seems a kind of huckster's valorisation.When I look at Medal of Honor now, and its commercial partners that produce things like theTac-300 McMillen Tactical Rifle, I see a game created under the belief that being authentic is the best way to siphon off Activision's sales. And yet with that belief, the one thing its creators never thought to change was the game itself, how it works and what that communicates to players. It can't even manage a tonal shift from COD. That's the repugnant thing about Warfighter. It's a rebranding exercise, veiled by the sanctity of America's brave forces.War games can do dumb, and I'm OK with that. But dressing dumb up in the cloak of authenticity seems a dangerous line to cross. When you pretend to be saying something about ongoing real-world wars, but present a conflict of extremes with all the substance of air, the thought that anyone might take Warfighter seriously becomes a very queasy one. What it comes down to is an assumption that its audience is there to be fooled, and doesn't care anyway. That's what Warfighter feels like – a piece of propaganda.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Much of the coverage so far of Nick D'Aloisio has focused on his age. He started writing apps in 2008 when he was 12, and raised the first round of venture capital for his startupSummlythree years later.Cue conference appearances and press interviews peppered with questions focusing on the age thing – how did GCSEs fit in, shouldn't he be out at parties, what did his parents think etc.Understandable, perhaps, but hopefully in the past. Summly is one of the more intriguing and potentially disruptive apps to be released in 2012: the technology and its implication for the publishing industry is far more interesting than the age of its founder.Summly started life as an app called Trimit coded by D'Aloisio himself, and released in 2011. He then raised $250k of funding from Hong Kong-based investor Li Ka-shing, and reworked it as Summly. A beta release in late December 2011 provided valuable feedback, but now it's gettinga full launch on iPhone.What is Summly? To summarise, well, it's all about summaries. The app pulls in news articles from hundreds of online sources, then its algorithm pulls out the key points and summarises them into 400-character paragraphs that fit neatly onto the iPhone screen, to be swiped through rapidly.The news is filtered by category – Technology, Sports, Fashion and so on – with the ability for users to add their own keywords, add and remove specific sources, and share stories out to their social networks."It's a big, consumer mass-market product here," says D'Aloisio. "Anyone can benefit from this: not just people my age who consume news very differently, but adult news junkies too, with the amount of content you can get through."Summly is big on gestural controls, as you swipe sideways to move between summaries, then swipe down if you want to read the full story from the original source's website.The latter point is important: Summly is one of a number of startups disrupting the news industry that's keen for publishers to see it as a potential partner rather than a threat."Publishers have been tremendously supportive, and we've already signed a deal with News Corporation," says D'Aloisio."These summaries have never existed before: it's a whole new medium of content to monetise for the publishers. We're taking stuff that exists, and finding a whole new entity to put it into."This monetisation may include paywalls – one senses this is why News Corp was interested in a partnership. D'Aloisio suggests that Summly's summaries are a good fit for any sites looking to charge for their content, especially if that charging comes through microtransactions rather than monthly subscriptions."You can have the summary before the paywall, and after the paywall you get the full article," he says. "People would never buy an article based on a headline, but now we can give you a logical preview."How does Summly make money, if its app is free? D'Aloisio says there is scope for a premium subscription-based tier at some point – "we're offering a service, not just a product" – but my impression is that the app is as much a proving ground for Summly's technology, which may generate its real money from business-to-business uses.There are hints of this already: D'Aloisio suggests that Summly's summaries would work well on publishers' main websites, for example. "If someone hovered over a link on the Guardian website, you could present a synopsis, but a journalist wouldn't have to spend time writing it," he says.Summly could be used for other kinds of content too, from academic works through to emails.In other words, there are plenty of licensing opportunities for the technology behind the app, which in turn means D'Aloisio can give that app a decent runway as a free product without having to wodge ads in inappropriately.Or he could sell the company, of course. Summly has the air of a technology that an Apple or a Google (or a Microsoft, Amazon, Facebook…) might want to get their hands on to ensure their competitors don't."No OS has got a de facto news app on mobile," says D'Aloiso, diplomatically, in response to a mischievous question about when Apple is going to buy Summly. He does agree that it would make sense for "Summly's home to be built into a pre-existing operating system, or another new service or search engine" though.In the meantime, the consumer app is live, and Summly's team are working hard to get it to other platforms beyond the iPhone – Android and Windows Phone are first on the company's agenda. New languages too: for now Summly is English-language only, but D'Aloisio says work is proceeding apace for other parts of the world."We could launch in French tomorrow, but we want to make sure the quality is brilliant," he says. "Our focus is on expanding very quickly to other regions, languages and devices."
Another year goes by, and so, another release of Football Manager to review. Describe the new features, add in a little colour about how addictive it is, name-drop Tonton Zola Mokouko – job done.Sadly, I'm not going to be able to use the tried-and-tested formula this year as Football Manager 13 is quite unlike any previous edition in the series. While the original game is still there (and yes, don't worry, I'm still planning on describing its new features), this year marks the arrival of Classic mode – a new, streamlined version of the game aimed at lapsed ChampMan enthusiasts.It's a pretty radical departure for Sports Interactive, what with their unerring focus on adding complexity and depth to the series over the past 10 years. To abandon that now is somewhat surprising – after all fans have been moaning about how complex and time-consuming the game has become for a long time. Perhaps it took this long to give Classic mode the right balance. Or perhaps it took this long for SI to realise that realism at all costs was not necessarily what people want.Whatever the reason, it was certainly worth the wait. Classic mode is fun in a way the full game hasn't been for some time now, and far from just tempting back those who had given up, I think many who have remained loyal will find their allegiances tested this year.Strangely, it feels almost like an EA management sim, such is the change in tone and presentation. Classic has a much more attractive, glossy feel than the nuts and bolts of its bigger brother – but still retains the all-important player database and match engine which made Football Manager a genre-defining franchise in the first place.Apologies for showing the Czech screen … but look! There's the Classic mode option and all the back-to-basics fun you can shake a linesman’s flag at.In terms of gameplay, what you'll find is similar to ChampMans of old: most of the fat of the last 10 years has been trimmed out to the point where you can get from match to match with only a few clicks. Miles Jacobson referred to it as a "tactics and transfers" in an early development video and this is probably the best way to describe it. Buy some players, pick a formation, and then zip your way through a season in a day.It's the speed with which you can make your way through the game, and the lack of time-commitment and stress that comes from this that makes Classic mode so refreshing. This is best illustrated by the Challenge feature offered within Classic mode – essentially a variety of custom-made save games for you to load up and take on different scenariosIf you've got a spare afternoon, why not take on the challenge of saving a small Dutch team from relegation? Challenge mode will put you into the hotseat in the January transfer window, and in two to three hours you can make your way to the end of the season. Win or lose, your time investment is small – you're playing for the sheer fun of it. It's been a long time since that could be said about a Football Manager game.In-game unlockables allow you to purchase, with real money, "cheat" options to help you with the game, and while I worry what ramifications this may have for the series – I'd be surprised if we didn't one day have to pay extra for things we once expected to be included – it justs adds to the sense that this is a game, not a hobby, and it's there to be enjoyed in whatever way you want. Sure, it's less rewarding than the full version. But if you don't have the time or patience to play the full version any more, then who cares?Obviously, Classic mode isn't for everybody. For every 90s Championship Manager fan that bemoans how complex his once beloved game has become, there's another for whom the series is like a religion. The match engine is so sophisticated that hours and hours can be spent studying it – and thankfully Football Manager 13's fully-featured incarnation has had more than enough attention given to it to satisfy these hardcore fans as well.As ever, layers of complexity have been added which mean more time can be spent away from the pitch than ever before. Training has been completely overhauled – an area that's remained relatively unchanged over the past few years of updates. You're now encouraged to spend far more time tailoring training to specific players and matches – train your team in attacking movement the week before playing weak opposition at home, for example. While this has been an option before, it now feels like something you daren't ignore.Press conferences, too, have become more complex, and though you'll soon get tired of the generic replies on offer, just like team-talks you can now offer them in a variety of tones. I imagine some players will delight in the ability to turn the hairdryer on journalists, rather than just their error-prone left-back.The way you work alongside other staff at the club has also changed – for the first time you can appoint a director of football to handle contract negotiations and the like, and also find more specific coaches for different tasks.Aside from these new features, the interface has seen a major redesign that should make navigating the game's myriad features somewhat easier. The matchday experience has also been improved quite considerably, with much more information available to the player and a much less obtrusive menu available with which to make pitchside decisions. Improvements to the 3D match engine aren't hugely noticeable, but the new animations included are a pleasing addition for those of us who've tired of seeing their tiny football men kick a ball in exactly the same way.Though we say it every year, Football Manager 13 is the most in-depth, detailed and complex football management simulator ever made. But I must admit, I've bitten my tongue as I've written about most of these new features. The last thing I personally wanted was a new set of variables to worry about as I play the game, and for even more hours to have to be invested just to get through a season.Now Classic mode is available, though, such complaints are harder to make. It'd be nice if it didn't have to be a straight choice between too complex and not complex enough, but unless SI release 20 differently complex versions of the game, you can't keep everyone happy.One enhancement that affects both modes is the drastically improved multiplayer options – fully integrated with Steam and making it much easier to play with friends online than ever before, and in a pleasing variety of ways.In Versus mode, for example, you can set up a customised cup and compete with teams from your single-player games – perfect to settle those arguments about whose all-conquering Chelsea side is better.Online leaderboards are also available for the first time, making FM13 feel like a much more social experience. It's nice to know, having spent the best part of a month guiding Tonbridge Angels to the Premier League, that there are others out there too doing the same thing.Without the amount of new modes and improvements on offer, Football Manager 13 is a pretty astonishing package. It will, though, be interesting to see what form next year's release will take. If Classic mode proves popular, it won't be bundled in with the main game for long – and I fear for the longevity of the full-featured mode should they end up being competing releases. For now though, Football Manager 13 at last offers the chance to play the game at a level of intensity you're comfortable with – and even Tonton Zola Mokouko would agree that that's a great thing.
Think of computer game management simulations, and you usually think of aspirational jobs - or at least the things we dreamed of doing as kids. Theme parks, railroads, game development studios, farms – all have featured in this popular genre since it flourished in the '90s. But right now, there is something very different out there, something intriguing enough to attract over 10,000 players into its paid online alpha test. That something isPrison Architectand it may just be the most fascinating and troubling management title ever devised.Developed by UK studio Introversion, the game challenges players to build their own functioning jails, from a variety of components. Cells, canteens, exercise areas and even morgues all have to be constructed to keep the ever-growing inmate population healthy, if not exactly happy. There's a sandbox mode where the aim is simply to keep constructing and modifying the facility, but in the campaign mode, there's a series of story-driven chapters where you have specific objectives based around a range of characters. And these look like they're going to be pretty dark."The idea came from a holiday in California with my wife," explains designer and programmer Chris Delay. "We were going around Alcatraz, and it had a really nice audio guide with all these atmospheric stories. There was also a guide demonstrating the doors - cranking these enormous levers. It's all pre-electronics, it's a purely mechanical, gear-based system and it gives it this amazing sound. I was really geeking out over this stuff. I felt that I wanted to make a game based on prisons that had really elaborate mechanics and complex AI - very much presented in the style of classic Bullfrog management games like Dungeon Keeper with a British sense of humour to it".The gameplay structure is based around Maslow's hierarchy of needs – prisoners need basic care to begin with but will become more demanding as standards increase. "It's like a pyramid that starts with food and sleep," says Delay. "If these are not satisfied they override all the other needs above. The next level is safety, the next is social, and each level is harder to get to, especially in a prison where you don't have freedom of movement. That model underpins the inmates' lives and drives them through the day - they do their best to satisfy their needs, depending on where they're allowed to go at that particular time – so if they're dying for a shower and it's not shower time they get more and more angry".And of course, what you don't want is a prison full of furious and frustrated criminals, because that means only one thing. "Yes riots can kick off," says Delay. "It happens when some angry prisoners successfully 'capture' their zone, which entails defeating the guards in the area.  They then take the guards' weapon and keys, unlock all the cell doors to let the other prisoners out, and barricade themselves in.  They can be incredibly destructive.  Your staff will fall back and even your guards will refuse to go into the lost zone, because it's just too dangerous.  You have to use Riot Police to retake the zone by force".In effect, then, the game is has a classic management sim objective: keep the punters happy. Except these punters won't just wander disillusioned out of your sim construction when it fails to meet their approval, they'll burn it down. Furthermore, whereas in titles like Theme Park it's pretty easy to spread joy on a micro level, running a prison is all about controlling the masses."Every prisoner has their AI running - but from a player's point of view you can't really make decisions based on individual inmates," says Delay. "You may have 100 inmates so you need to look at the whole society of your prison - if half the prisoners want a shower then you might improve the washing facilities to make them more efficient. After that, you can you start thinking about the next level, which is physical health, exercise and well-being. And once you start talking about really high level leftwing concepts like education and rehabilitation, these are really hard to get to because everything underneath has to be taken care of. You can build a school in the middle of the prison but if everyone is starving or scared that they're going to be shanked, they won't get anything out of it."Although there's a streak of humour running through the game with its teeny thugs wandering the corridors cutely battering each other, Prison Architect also tackles the complex ethics of punishment and incarceration. Players will need to decide on the morality of their institution - will it be an impressing citadel of punishment or an idyll of correction and rehabilitation? The right answer seems to be the latter, but Introversion is keen to ensure that there really is no right answer in this complex arena."We don't really want you to be able to build a leftwing utopian paradise and have it work seamlessly," says the studio's MD, Mark Morris. "For example, if you put pay phones in, you're meeting the needs of prisoners who want to contact loved ones. However, there are others who'll use them to phone up for getaway cars, or arrange drug drops. Some prisoners will always abuse the facilities - and where that line is drawn is what I find most interesting. If you've been sent down for 20 years, being able to call your mum and dad isn't really going to have that much effect. The player needs to feel they have agency in the world, and we have embryonic ideas on how we'll be able to communicate all this. You should be able to build a rightwing hell-hole or a liberal paradise but neither will entirely work - that would be a fantasy".The story mode, which has the player working as a private prison contractor, will also explore the morality of running these facilities. In one mission, you're required to build an execution chamber to deal with a death row inmate - but while you do that, the game reveals the backstory of the prisoner, casting questions on his guilt. "I love playing with that quite dark idea of whether you can separate yourself from the reality of what you're doing," says Delay. "There are lots of other games where you're just building roller coasters and stuff - they're just facilities. This is a building for an execution: does that change anything? The mean part of me likes putting players in that slightly uncomfortable position and then pushing it further".These sorts of dilemmas become somehow more complex in the sandbox mode, where players are driven, not by a linear narrative that demands acquiescence, but by the desire to succeed. Can we view the construction of an execution chamber in the same way we'd view the building of a ferris wheel in Theme Park? Are these just virtual game pieces? "You'll probably be paid more for taking in a death row prisoner," says Morris. "You'll have to ask yourself whether you're comfortable with that or not. We've really highlighted that moral decision. The next time you play through you may well have a prison full of execution chambers - a killing factory. People do that -they explore the different elements. If you just said to players, 'are you going to put in an execution chamber - yes or no' there's no moral context; you've done nothing to remind them what it means to kill someone. You're not just killing a little sprite, you're killing a character who you're not entirely convinced deserves to die".Unsurprisingly, the team has had to carry out extensive research into prison construction and management.  "There are some fascinating architects' bibles about the exact amount of light you get through roof and the effect it has on people," says Delay. "There are rules on how big the slit in a cell wall needs to be; actual EU regulations! That's all very interesting to me. I mean, how do they decide that?"But even if everything is based on scrupulous research, was there a worry about creating a game based around such an emotive and controversial subject? "Yes," answers Delay, simply. "And we realised a while ago that we were quite out of our depth. We had one of those panic moments as game designers" oh crap, we're dealing with this incredibly contentious topic on which a lot of people in the world hold very strong opinions. And we're in a slightly isolated environment where we don't really see prisons in the same way as somebody living in America might do".America seems to have figured highly in the team's thinking. They tell me about Cañon City in Colorado, home to 13 prisons including the Supermax facility, containing some of the country's most dangerous convicts. This is an area of 36,000 people, the nearby town mostly inhabited by prisoner and guard families, the economy relying on the facilities like a industrial city. Introversion has immersed itself in all this, studying the award-winning web documentary,Prison Valley, which analyses the town and its populace."We started talking to some ex-prisoners and ex-prison staff, some very interesting characters - we can't tell you who yet," says Delay. "We want them to let us know if anything in the game is totally ridiculous. For example, we've been looking into escape tunnels, which from a gameplay point of view make total sense; you get prisoners trying to escape, they leave little clues about what's happening and you have to think about a shield to prevent them. But in reality, nobody tunnels out of their cell! It's not realistic, but we're trying to find a line - the place where the gameplay mechanics and the real world implications meet is where it's most interesting. I mean, do you start thinking that you need sniper towers around the parameter, turning the place into a hellhole just because one guy decides to tunnel?"In early October, Introversion made an alpha version of the game available online. Players could pay $30 to download it or a series of higher payments to get the game plus bonus items. It's a model that combines the Kickstarter perks model with the roll-out of Mojang's hugely successful building sim Minecraft. And it turned out to be an incredibly good idea. "In our first four weeks over 10,000 people have bought our alpha, generating about $360,000," says Delay. "We never expected this level of response, and it's hugely exciting to be at the helm of such a big following. Before we launched the alpha we agreed we'd be happy with a couple of hundred sales in the first day and maybe a thousand by the end of the first month, so this is way in excess of what we expected".This being an alpha (i.e. incomplete) release, Introversion has been able to update the game based on feedback. "We polled our community for most requested feature, and the current top rated option is the ability to Zone your prison into wings," explains Delay.  "So you could set up one areas as Zone A, and prisoners in those cells are only allowed to stay in Zone A, they have to eat and shower there, too.  Using that feature you can divide up your prison into self-contained areas, and this paves the way for different types of prisoners like Max Sec. We changed direction a fair amount because none of this was particularly high priority for us until we saw how much people wanted it".At the moment, players are able to share their best prison maps online with other fans, but there's no multiplayer: "I'd love to have it," says Morris. " But we need to have the game out there and working". The game is currently PC and Mac only, and eventually Steam distribution is likely. There's also talk of a tablet version further down the line, but a console version is… well… unlikely. As a company, Introversion was almost ruined when it tried to port its cult classic Darwinia to Xbox Live, a four-year process that cost tens of thousands of pounds and brought in few sales.And it's not necessary. Despite the fact that running a prison is hardly something we all dream of, there is clearly plenty of curiosity out there. "We have a really active community already, and we are polling them to find out what features they most want to see," says Delay. "We've got people suggesting crazy stuff like all-female prisons, guard dogs that can be distracted by bacon, all kinds of stuff.  The general feedback is that our fans love the game they are playing already and are almost as excited as we are about the new features coming!"
The next time you're looking for a place to buy or rent, will you choose it by the distance from where you work – or by the time it takes you to get to work by bus, train, tube or car? Most people actually want to choose by the latter. Now a British company callediGeoliseis promising to commercialise that idea for all modes of transport – and expand it from the UK to Europe and the US.Since this summer it has already helped TalkTalk decide where it ought to relocate its offices to – when it was considering moving a thousand employees – and a major high street store is considering offering it on its site to help web searchers find their nearest outlet, measured by time rather than the usual distance as the crow flies.The market for such a service is growing: rivalMapumentaloffers time-based maps for travel on public transport.But iGeolise has the momentum at present, having just won theUK Satellite Navigation Competition, organised by the University of Nottingham's GNSS Research and Applications Centre of Excellence, is poised to start offering location search services for all sorts of companies – and could come to the attention of mapping giants, including Google, Nokia and Apple, all of which have hundreds of millions of users."I would think those three would find it useful," says Peter Lilley, who co-founded the company along with Charlie Davis. "When you're looking to travel somewhere, your main consideration really isn't distance – it's time. And they don't offer that."Though the satellite navigation systems of those companies will offer time estimates for road-based travel,iGeolise can calculate how long it will taketo get somewhere if you need to take a train and then a bus, because it is now adding public transport timetables to its calculations.Lilley offers an alternative scenario where he says Google Maps and others can't compete: "what if you've got an hour or two, and you want to find a particular sort of restaurant, but you have to get back to where you are. We can find places that are within a certain travel time, so you can organise yourself by the time you have available, not the physical distance." About 40% of searches online are for geographical content such as classified ads, jobs, retail outlets and so on, he says.The output from iGeolise could be fed straight to a smartphone, he suggests, via the paid-for API the company is developing. While Mapumental also has an API under development, most users see its output in the form of rendered images on its web page. "There's a whole bunch of consumer-facing sites that could benefit from our output," says Lilley.Lilley says a recent survey of consumers found 79% said they would rather search by time to a destination than distance – and that, when quizzed further, the other 21% said they thought distance was a "more accurate" measure, and that "time to destination" would be a rough estimate.He adds that although the business is still small at present, with turnover heading towards £10,000 per month from "nine or 10" clients.The company has not had any venture capital funding; instead Lilley and Davis have part-funded the business themselves, along with an unnamed angel investor, and funding of £55,000 from the Technology Strategy Board and £15,000 from Surrey University. "We could conceivably have taken [venture capital] funding," says Lilley, "but it would no longer be our business."Guardian Media Group, which owns the Guardian, has used iGeolise once, to optimise the location for a conference.
Here we go, it's Friday! What are you playing this weekend?!
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWindows 8 uptake remains listless after public launch &gt;&gt; ComputerworldAccording to data released Thursday by Web measurement firm Net Applications, 0.45% of all computers running Windows during October were powered by Windows 8. That number, which represents 45 out of every 10,000 Windows machines, was a jump of slightly more than one-third over the month before.But it's a far cry from Windows 7's uptake: At the end of October 2009, Windows 7 accounted for 2.33% of all Windows PCs, or 233 out of 10,000. That puts Windows 7 as the easy winner in the early race. Its share of all Windows PCs in its release month was more than five times that of Windows 8's.There is at least one caveat, however. Windows 7 went on sale Oct. 22, 2009, four days earlier on the calendar than Windows 8, which hit retail Oct. 26.Seems rather early to be calling it "listless". But it's a data point. Let's all check back in a month or two.Microsoft Surface RT: the sad treadmill of overhyped expectations &gt;&gt; TechCrunchJohn Biggs:In short, Microsoft knows the PC industry is tepid at best. Aside from the arms races in financial computing and gaming, there is very little to compel the average user to upgrade. Win8 will fulfill most of that compunction but by launching a product that wasn't indicative of its strengths is a big problem. Looky-loos and tire kickers will see everyone from Pogue to Burns saying that the Surface is great but it isn't and they'll be scared off for at least two hardware generations.(Thanks @avro for the link.)An industry breakdown of Google's $100m per day advertising revenue &gt;&gt; HubspotIt's an infographic, and a pretty big one. A useful reference point (assuming that the numbers are roughly correct.)Predicting what topics will trend on Twitter &gt;&gt; MIT Media RelationsAt the Interdisciplinary Workshop on Information and Decision in Social Networks at MIT in November, Associate Professor Devavrat Shah and his student, Stanislav Nikolov, will present a new algorithm that can, with 95% accuracy, predict which topics will trend an average of an hour and a half before Twitter's algorithm puts them on the list -- and sometimes as much as four or five hours before.The algorithm could be of great interest to Twitter, which could charge a premium for ads linked to popular topics, but it also represents a new approach to statistical analysis that could, in theory, apply to any quantity that varies over time: the duration of a bus ride, ticket sales for films, maybe even stock prices.Oooo.Searching for power after Hurricane Sandy &gt;&gt; USA TodayFascinating gallery: phone charge is the new food. (Via @benedictevans on Twitter.)Open data: seize the moment &gt;&gt; BMJThe august British Medical Journal calls for data from all clinical trials to be made available for analysis so that we can properly determine the effects of new pharmaceuticals. (Via @bengoldacre on Twitter.)Stolen cellphone databases switched on by major US carriers &gt;&gt; Naked Security[US] Carriers have up until now blocked SIM cards on stolen phones, preventing unauthorized calls from going through.That was easy to get around: thieves would simply install a new SIM card and sell the phone on the second-hand market.The new databases will instead block the International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) number, a unique identifier that stays in the phone regardless of the SIM card being used.Seriously, IMEI blocking has been in place in the UK for, what, ten years?iPad mini teardown &gt;&gt; iFixitActually includes the phrase "Thanks for the repairability, Apple!" though as the years have gone on, iFixit has had to invest in better and better macro lenses for its photos as components have gotten smaller and smaller. Samsung display, Broadcom, Fairchild, Hynix chips, adhesives. A5 chip with 512MB RAM.You can replace the LCD and glass separately; that aside you're pretty much stuffed.Apple awarded patent rights for original iOS Maps app GUI &gt;&gt; Apple InsiderWill courtroom shenanigans inevitably follow? (Thanks @alexredcloud for the link.)Do You Wanna Touch &gt;&gt; Coding Horror[Microsoft's] Surface is just like the first iPad in that it has all the flaws and rough edges you'd expect in a version one device. But it is also like the first iPad in that there is undeniably the core of something revelatory and transformative here - a vision of the future of computing that doesn't sacrifice either keyboard or touch.Reviewers think Surface is intended to be a tablet killer, but it isn't. It's a laptop killer. After living with the Surface RT for a few days now, I'm convinced that this form factor is the replacement and way forward for the stagnant laptop. I can't even remember the last time I was this excited about a computer. The more I use it, the more I think that touch plus keyboard is the future of all laptops.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
There's something almost nostalgic aboutHalo 4(Xbox 360). It is 11 years since the galaxy-trotting saga began with the defining flagship title of the original Xbox, Halo: Combat Evolved, and since then, true to its name, thefranchise has progressed at a Darwinian pace.It's not that nothing has ever been added. Quite the opposite: new guns, vehicles, aliens and allies have all leapt into the fray with each new release. Halo 2 was the first to let players dual-wield rifles, and it wasn't until Halo 3 that players locked horns with hulking, four-legged walking tanks. But it's in no way a criticism to say that, at core, the experience of playing a Halo game is, like the shark, almost entirely unevolved since that first perfect killer.Much of Halo 4's multiplayer mode – or "Infinity mode", as it has been inexplicably rechristened – will be fondly familiar to past players. There's the usual broad range of maps, mixing sprawling vehicle-laden badlands with hovering, hi-tech fortresses full of air-lifts, balconies and sheer drops, and the usual array of weapons, including energy swords and sniper rifles, plus a couple of funky new additions. And while there are new vehicles in the campaign, Infinity focuses on the classics: the Warthog buggy, the alien hover-bike, the Ghost and a quaintly useless unarmed quad bike, the Mongoose.The most notable change is a new focus on unlockables. Previous titles featured levels and ranks, but kept them out of the combat experience itself. No longer. In Halo 4, players gain levels – or Spartan Ranks – that allow them to unlock new starting weapons load-outs, switching, for example, their battle rifle for an assault rifle, or their frag grenades for plasmas. It's the same system employed in most other modern first-person shooters, but in a Halo game, where the best weapons are drastically more powerful than the worst, there's a risk it will feel a little unfair. You know, on the n00bs.There is also a risk that the introduction of kill-streak rewards will prove demoralising for lesser players. Those who manage to rack up a chain of kills can now have weapons and power-ups delivered right to their feet, making it harder than ever to overturn a deficit, and easier for a single elite player to run riot. Of course, it's always fun if that elite player happens to be you. But less so if you're the guy he's one-shot killed the last 10 times.The playing field may be less level, but the sport has hardly changed. You'll still find yourself scrambling, at the start of each game, to get hold of the best guns and vehicles, or else spend much of the rest of it being killed by better-armed opponents. Likewise, when you come face-to-face with the other team, jumping will still be your best friend, and shooting someone leaping directly over you remains one of the game's core skills, as does running directly at the other guy and braining them with a well-timed rifle slap.Spartan Ops – the game's co-operative missions – promise something a bit different. Released in seasons of 50 missions, five a week for 10 weeks, they come with accompanying introductory cinematics supplementing the main story, and can be played alone or alongside up to three allies over Xbox Live. Coupled with a full offline campaign, there's clearly plenty here for gamers who prefer to avoid the cut, thrust and frequent tea-bagging of player-versus-player. (If you don't know, don't look it up.)The campaign itself sees original hero Master Chief awake after four years cryo-sleep to an alien assault, and begins in archetypal Halo fashion. Minutes in, trusty AI sidekick Cortana is barking at our hero to reach an air-lock before the ship they are on explodes. Soon after, panicked alien grunts are scurrying away like quacking, punch-drunk toddlers, and soon after that the Chief is racing across the surface of an unknown planet in a handy buggy. The graphics are better, the cut-scenes stunning, but the game itself looks like Halo as usual.I have not had enough time with the game to encounter the freaky robot dogs, clanking necro-droids and other new evils that I know from trailers the campaign has in store, but it's unlikely their arrival will send the game veering off in a whole new direction. This looks like a sequel fiercely loyal to its predecessors, with enough courage to add a few new tricks, and enough sense not to tinker with the bits that ain't broke. If it's Halo as usual, that's no bad thing at all.
It's time for our weekly roundup of new games for smartphones and tablets, this time covering iOS, Android and Windows Phone.The week's pick of new and notable games includes racing, bubble-popping, theme-park-managing, LOTS of undead-shooting, fantasy football, monsters, slot machines, sharks and Peppa Pig. A varied mix, you could say.Note, prices are included for the first time this week – they apply to the initial download, so when a game is "Free", it may well include in-app purchases. All prices are correct at the time of writing (1 November), but may have changed if you're reading this a few weeks or months down the line.Need for Speed: Most Wanted(£4.99)EA has released the latest incarnation in its street-racing franchise Need for Speed, with a characteristic mix of high speeds, dodgy cornering and vehicle customisation. This time round, you can touch or tilt to steer for more thrills, and it all ties in to EA's Origin community for social features and challenges. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadBubble Island(Free)It's been fun to see bubble-popping emerge as a hot social-game genre in 2012, if you've been playing incarnations of Bust-A-Move / Puzzle Bobble for years and years. Bubble Island comes from Wooga, and has been a huge hit on Facebook. As on there, you're firing bubbles to make others disappear, while bagging power-ups and competing against Facebook friends.iPhone / iPadTheme Park(Free)EA reinvented its classic Theme Park game as a free-to-play game for iOS earlier in the year, but now it's available for Android too. You have to build your own theme park, acquiring and repairing rides, stocking shops, and then trying to part punters from as much money as possible. In-app purchases fuel your expansion plans.AndroidHellfire(Free)Mobage's latest social game sees you trying to close the Gates of Hell by harnessing Fire, Water, Death and Earth. No pressure. That's accomplished by summoning creatures of varying ferocity and exploring 600 chapters of adventuring.Android / iPhone / iPadZombie Driver THD(£4.35)"Cars, speed, explosions, blood and zombies". That about says it all for this visually impressive Android game, which takes up 1GB of storage on your device, but justifies it. You'll be racing against other vehicles as violently as possible, from bulldozers to tanks. It's optimised for devices with Tegra processors.AndroidGizmonauts(Free)Gizmonauts comes from Backflip Studios, which had a huge hit with its free-to-play dragon-breeding game DragonVale. Here, you're focusing on something more techy: robots. The game involves building bots, customising them with parts, then sending them out to battlt those of other players.iPhone / iPadChrono Trigger(£6.99)Square Enix's famous Chrono Trigger game sparked plenty of appreciative oohs and aahs from iOS RPG fans when it came out on that platform. Now it's on Android too, sending you adventuring through dungeons to fight monsters, reveal secrets and pop in to a Dimensional Vortex. As you do. Lots of old-school RPG fun to be had here.AndroidARC Squadron(£0.69)If you've been itching for an addictive shooter on iOS, ARC Squadron may fit the bill (and if not, read about the next game down in this roundup). In traditional 'one pilot against the galaxy' style, it sees you swooping and shooting through 64 levels battling bosses and upgrading your ship along the way.iPhone / iPadDodonpachi Maximum(£7.99)Having been ported from Windows Phone, Japanese developer Cave's Dodonpachi Maximum remains a game for hardcore shoot 'em up fans thanks to its hellish amount of bullets and clever combo-based scoring system. That said, there's an Easy Mode for newcomers to this sub-genre of shooters. Eye-popping visuals and excellent background music add to the fun.iPhone / iPadPeppa Pig Theme Park(£3.99)Okay, not a game for (most) adults: this is for children who can't get enough of Peppa Pig and her family/friends. It's a collection of mini-games all set in a theme park, which will have kids making candy floss, riding hot air balloons and bumper cars, and playing music on a magical water fountain.iPhone / iPadKnights of Pen &amp; Paper(£1.49)I covered this wonderfully creative RPG when it came out on Android, but now iOS gamers can play too. It's a roleplaying game inspired by Dungeons &amp; Dragons, right down to your ability to play dungeon master, of a sort. The gameplay involves plenty of dungeons and monsters, while the visuals are pixel-art-tastic.iPhone / iPadLegends of Loot(Free)More dungeons here: a dungeon-crawler game with mazes, monsters and traps galore – more than 100 levels to play through, with a clever combat system and the ability to keep up with your friends' achievements when they're playing, through an in-game calendar.Android / iPhone / iPadHalo 4: King of the Hill Fueled by Mountain Dew(Free)The title may make hardcore Halo fans cry, but this is more than just a branded tie-in. Yes, there are brands involved: the gameplay includes scanning Mountain Dew and Doritos products, as well as hanging around 7-Eleven shops. But there are some interesting location-based ideas going on here too, in terms of taking the world of Halo into, well, the real world. At least, there are if you're in the US or Canada.iPhone / iPadBorderlands Legends/Borderlands Legends HD(£2.99 / £4.99)Here's another big name from the console getting a mobile spin-off, this time from Gearbox Software. It's a brand new game, but featuring characters from the first Borderlands title, as you fight enemies, earn in-game cash and upgrade your abilities.iPhone / iPadTower Raiders 3(Free)There are plenty of tower defence games to choose from on Android, but Tower Raiders 3 has the makings of one of the better ones. Released in beta to get feedback from players it looks stylish, with lots of tactical flexibility in how you defend your bases. A nice twist: sign in to Facebook, and the humans you save will be your actual friends.AndroidNutty Fluffies(£0.69)Anyone who played the Rollercoaster Rush on mobile phones or online may raise an eyebrow at this, which on the surface looks similar: a rollercoaster-racing game seen from a side-on perspective. However, there's more here: rockets, magnets and other power-ups, for example, as well as a variety of tracks to race through. It's the work of innovative developer RedLynx (of Trials fame) and publisher Ubisoft, which is a partnership worth watching.iPhone / iPadBig Buck Hunter Pro(£2.29)Big Buck Hunter will pass most Brits by, since we don't spend much time hunkered down in forests trying to shoot "whitetail bucks". However, it may go down well in the US, where it's the latest Windows Phone game to tie into Microsoft's Xbox community.Windows PhoneiBomber Attack(£1.99)Cobra Mobile's iBomber games have found a healthy fanbase on iOS, and the latest version – published by Chillingo now – looks set to win some new people over. It sees you blasting your way through 24 levels in a tank, upgrading its weapons as you go, with neat top-down graphics giving you a bird's eye view of the action.iPhone / iPadMonster Warlord(Free)This is the latest freemium card-battler game, which as the title implies involves all manner of monsters. There are hundreds of beasts to collect and combine, with a clan system to spice up the online multiplayer elements. It's a port from the existing Android version.iPhone / iPadZombiewood(Free)There are more zombies to be diced, sliced, shot and generally treated with abject impoliteness in Gameloft's Zombiewood, which is set in Los Angeles (hence the name). Its Android version follows hot on the heels of the action-packed iOS version, taking the form of a dual-stick shooter. The sticks, of course, are virtual.AndroidCollapse! Blast(Free)GameHouse's Collapse games might not be quite as big as Bejeweled, but they're still one of the most enduring and popular match-three puzzle franchises. This is based on the latest incarnation on Facebook, as you bust coloured blocks and compete against friends.iPhone / iPadTotem Runner(£0.69)Dragons, rampaging rhinos, mighty eagles and "malevolent darkness". A good night out in Bishop's Stortford, yes, but also the key features of Chillingo's horror game. It sees you running, fighting, and transforming into the different beasts, accompanied by striking visuals.iPhone / iPadMonster Mall(Free)"Ever thought about managing your own shopping center?" asks the Google Play Store listing for Mobage's new strategy game, optimistically given the existence of several very-popular managing-your-own-shopping-centre games on mobile. The twist here is in the name: the customers are monsters. It's a Halloweeny take on the shopping/tower genre, with social features like visiting friends' key to the action.AndroidBig Fish Casino UK(Free)Big Fish Casino has been making headlines this week, as it's one of the first examples of a casual games publisher (Big Fish Games) moving into real-money gambling. Here, that means a virtual slot machine game called Year Of The Dragon, where you can bet and win real cash. However, if that's a bit edgy for you, there are play-for-fun games here too.iPhone / iPadM.U.S.E.(£1.23)Nothing to do with the band: this blends elements of roleplaying games with a third-person shooter, with lots of action, a "badass agent" hero, and waves upon waves of cyborgs to shoot your way through.AndroidHungry Shark: Evolution(£0.69)There is an official Jaws mobile game, but it seems to have proved much less popular than Hungry Shark from Future Games of London. Now it's got a sequel, although sadly that title doesn't mean your shark is sprouting legs and rampaging round seaside resorts. Although that gives me an idea for a film... Here you're playing a Great White Shark, completing undersea missions and growing as you chomp through creatures and humans.iPhone / iPadOff the Leash(£0.69)Miniclip is famous for its web games, but it's making a move into mobile too. Off the Leash sees you playing a dog, trying to outrun the police after a ban on all things canines is introduced, while rescuing your four-legged friends. One twist being that you get to play different dogs, starting as a Golden Retriever before unlocking others. It's colourful and very fun.AndroidSlotSpot(Free)More slot machines here, but play-for-fun ones. The game is based on developer Blitzoo Games' Facebook title, as you play through a series of levels and machines.AndroidNBA: King of the Court 2(£1.49)The second location-based game from Ogmento this week, sitting alongside the Halo 4 game. NBA: King of the Court 2 is a sequel, seeing you shooting virtual hoops, while battling with other players in your real-life location for king-of-the-court status. There's a solo mode for practising, too.iPhone / iPadBoomlings(Free)For all the whizzy 3D console-style games coming to modern smartphones and tablets, traditional puzzlers are still one of the most popular genres.  Boomlings might not be a famous name like Bejeweled or Collapse, but it deserves attention, with cute characters to match, lots of power-ups, and online challenges and Facebook leaderboards to compare your skills with friends.AndroidThat's our selection, but what are you playing this week on your smartphone or tablet? Make your recommendations, or provide feedback on the games we've chosen, by posting a comment.
My son recently bought a Google Nexus 7 tablet and my wife was highly impressed. I thought that was Christmas sorted, but she says a smartphone would suit her better as the bottom-of-the-range Android she uses is struggling to get by. I thought I could stretch to buying her the hardware and she could negotiate a SIM-only contract when the time came.I'm not entirely clued up on phones but I've narrowed it down to a fight between an Apple iPhone 4S and Samsung Galaxy S III as I know she's been impressed with both of these.She wants a phone, camera, Facebook, email and shopping. Are these as good as they get?PaulIf your wife had a particular interest in smartphones then she would probably have stated a preference. If it's your job to choose, then I'd go for the cheapest, closest upgrade.I'm basing this advice on personal experience. My wife resists change: she's sticking with Windows Vista and an old Nokia, despite my upgrade attempts, because they still do everything she wants.If it came to a straight fight between the Apple iPhone 4S and the Samsung Galaxy S III, then the Galaxy S III would win on having better technology while the iPhone 4S would win for having a better ecosystem, in terms of apps and accessories.In hardware terms, the Galaxy S III has a much bigger and better screen than the iPhone 4S (4.8in v 3.5in), and the screen has a higher resolution (720 x 1280 pixels v 640 x 960 pixels). The S III also has a faster processor (quad-core 1.4GHz Cortex-A9 v dual-core 1GHz Cortex-A9), twice as much RAM (1GB vs 512MB), and better battery life. Despite all this, the S III is thinner (8.6mm vs 9.3mm) and lighter (133g vs 140g) than the iPhone 4S, and cheaper (£385 at Amazon.co.ukvs£449 from Apple).The Galaxy S III also has many features that all iPhones lack. These include a standard microUSB port that supports USB On-The-Go and charging, NFC for contactless payments, a free FM radio, Adobe Flash support, and a choice of colours: red, blue, brown and grey, as well as black and white.Of course, it's unfair to compare this year's Galaxy S III with last year's iPhone 4S, and Apple has recently launched the iPhone 5. This has a bigger 4in screen with a higher resolution of 1136 x 640 pixels, and a much faster processor, so it comes closer to the S III. However, the iPhone 5 also has a new Lightning connector that is different from previous models, takes a new kind of nano-SIM, and comes at a very hefty price: £529 from the Apple Store.The Galaxy S III's numerous features appeal to technology geeks, but your wife isn't one. It would be perfectly reasonable for her to prefer an iPhone for other reasons, such as ease of use or the choice of apps. (Although Android now has roughly as many apps as the iPhone, the iPhone apps are often better.) However, she is already an Android user and doesn't appear to need any particular iPhone-specific apps, so I'd suggest sticking with Android.But I also suspect that she doesn't really need a Galaxy S III, and that either last year's Galaxy S II or the Galaxy Nexus would be acceptable alternatives.The Galaxy S II has a smaller 4.3in screen, but it's still big by smartphone standards. Obviously it has a slower processor (dual-core 1.2 GHz Cortex-A9) and lacks advanced S III features such as LTE (4G) and NFC support, but it still has the microUSB port, microSD card slot, and FM radio.The major drawbacks to the Galaxy S II are the limited screen resolution of 480 x 800 pixels, and probably an old version of the operating system, Android 2.3.4 (Gingerbread). You should be able to update an S II to version 4.1 (Jelly Bean), but you can't do anything about the screen resolution.The advantage of buying the S II over the S III is that it saves about £105. At the time of writing, an S II costs£280.60 at Amazon.co.uk. (I'm quoting Amazon for consistency but you can shop around for deals.)Perhaps an even better alternative would be the Samsung Galaxy Nexus, which has a 4.65in screen that shows 720 x 1280 pixels. In brief, the Nexus has the same processor as the S II, and the same screen resolution as the S III, though with a slightly worse camera (5MP vs 8MP). Being a Google Nexus, it ships with a clean version of Android 4, without Samsung's TouchWiz front end. And while it's an upgrade on the S II, it currently costs slightly less at Amazon.co.uk:£275.Find out the name and model number of your wife's Android phone, then go to theGSM Arenawebsite and click the Compare button. Search for and select your wife's phone and the Samsung Galaxy Nexus, and check the line-by-line comparison. Do not buy the Nexus unless it offers a faster processor, a bigger screen and more on-screen pixels than her current smartphone. However, if your wife's phone is bottom-of-the-range, as you say, then it should offer a worthwhile upgrade.Whether the Galaxy S III is worth the extra £110 is a matter of opinion. You could take the view that it's well worth an extra £1 per week over its two-year lifespan, or that £275 is more than enough to pay for a smartphone. Ask your wife, and see what she thinks.
The court of appeal has reprimanded Apple over the wording of the statement on its website acknowledging that Samsung did not infringe the iPad tablet's registered design, and ordered it to put an altered statement on its homepage – rather than tucked away in a linked page – until 14 December.Theacknowledgement put up last week, linked from the home page by a tiny link, was deemed to be "non-compliant" with the order that the court had made in October. The court has now ordered it to correct the statement – and the judges, Lord Justice Longmore, Lord Justice Kitchin and Sir Robin Jacob, indicated that they were not pleased with Apple's failure to put a simpler statement on the site.At a hearing in the court in London on Thursday morning, the judge told Apple that it had to change the wording of the statement within 48 hours, carry it on its home page, and use at least 11-point font.Apple tried to argue that it would take at least 14 days to put a corrective statement on the site – a claim that one judge said he "cannot believe".Darren Smyth of EIP Partners said: "The objection was that Apple had added to the statement that the court of appeal had ordered, so did not comply with the original order, and furthermore that the additions were not accurate."Apple must now within 48 hours publish a correction on their homepage with a link to the corrected statement in not less than 11-point font."The tech giant was originally ordered by the court of appeal to correct the statement carried on its website relating to its tablet battle with Samsung, in which it was ordered to acknowledge that its rival did not copy the iPad's design.Though Apple did do that, it also added in details from other court cases in the US relating to other non-design patents to suggest that other courts had found against Samsung.The acknowledgement – which was depicted as an apology, though neither the court of appeal nor the original high court judgment described it as such – was intended to be a factual statement ordered by His Honour Judge Birss QC in the high court. Apple has also been told it must take out adverts with the same statements in the Financial Times, The Guardian, Daily Mail, T3 magazine and Mobile magazine. Those adverts are not thought to have appeared.The ruling is the latest in a long-running battle between the South Korean and Californian electronics giants, in which Apple and Samsung have since 2010 been at loggerheads over patents and designs used in their respective smartphones and tablets, with lawsuits around the world.In the UK one, Apple had claimed that Samsung infringed its European "registered design" for the iPad tablet with the Galaxy Tab; Samsung disagreed, and won a ruling from Birss in July.He then ordered Apple to issue a corrective statement about Samsung's designs. Apple appealed, but lost that case in October. The same three judges sat on Thursday as in the October case.While Apple's statement on its site did contain the elements it was instructed to contain according to the court of appeal and high court rulings, Apple added four paragraphs – including extracts from Birss's ruling in July where he called Apple's designs "cool", and contrasted them against Samsung's, which he said lacked the same qualities.BloombergquotedJacob as saying Apple's statement was "a plain breach of the order".Bloomberg said that Michael Beloff, a lawyer representing Apple, defending the notice, told the court that the judges themselves had said that it "is not designed to punish, it is not designed to make us grovel" and that its only purpose was "to dispel commercial uncertainty".Apple declined to comment on the new ruling.
Welcome to our relaunched monthly roundup of the best new Windows Phone apps, just in time for the first Windows Phone 8 smartphones to go on sale from Nokia, Samsung and HTC.Unlike our weekly iOS and Android roundups, games are included here, in case you missed their inclusion in the weekly mobile games posts.Where apps and games are exclusive to a particular manufacturer (usually Nokia), we'll say in the text. It's not always possible to provide a web-link in these cases, but they're searchable in the handset makers' on-handset stores.And why monthly rather than weekly? That's related to the flow of high-quality apps at the time of writing, but as momentum picks up for Microsoft's platform, this post may well go weekly too.On with October 2012's apps:Xbox SmartGlassAbout as essential a download as you can get on Windows Phone, if you also have an Xbox 360 console. The SmartGlass app is used to control the console, including TV shows, films and music, navigating the console's menus without a joypad in sight, as well as typing on the Windows Phone keyboard. This is just the start too: Microsoft has more plans up its sleeve to make SmartGlass an inventive way to interact with games.Angry Birds RoostNokia bagged an exclusive on this app from Rovio, which isn't a new Angry Birds game. Instead, it's a hub for the world of Angry Birds, offering news, tutorials, photo-sharing features and a place to launch the separate games from.CarcassonneWith plenty of fans on other platforms, board game Carcassonne has made the leap to Windows Phone, courtesy of Microsoft Studios. It sees you placing tiles with roads, fields, cities and other features, while trying to dominate your opponents. Xbox functionality is included.MeTweetsLooking for an alternative way to access Twitter from your Windows Phone, other than the default OS features? MeTweets may be worth a look, especially if you're a heavy user. A slick user interface for newcomers meets lots of power features below the surface, including scheduled tweets, embedded photo-viewing and the ability to mute specific users and sources.VogueFashionable types may enjoy Vogue's official app, which offers a mixture of news, interviews and photos from celeb-strewn parties for the latest frock phenomena. It's elegantly done too, fitting neatly into the Windows Phone UI.AppSwitchNow this could be really useful: an app designed for people switching from other smartphones to Windows Phone, which promises to find their favourite apps on Microsoft's store – or alternatives if the original isn't yet available. With Microsoft promising that 46 of the 50 most popular iOS and Android apps will soon be on Windows Phone, and Nokia making "switch to Lumia" one of its marketing slogans, AppSwitch is hitting a sweet spot.Paperpress for InstapaperThis app ties into read-it-later service Instapaper, although it requires you to have a paid subscription to the latter before using it. If so, you can view unread, liked and archived articles, while switching between different visual themes to display them.RiskAnother Nokia exclusive, for now at least. This is EA's latest digital version of war boardgame Risk, letting you play against AI opponents, or up to five humans in its multiplayer mode. The game is also plumbed into Xbox Live for leaderboards.ExtractionShoot 'em up Extraction: Project Outbreak won plenty of praise on iOS, but now it's available on Windows Phone too. Publisher Chillingo has kept its soldiers-gone-viral plotline and frenetic gameplay intact, while adding support for Microsoft's Xbox Live community.uTorrent RemoteOpinions on BitTorrent's uTorrent filesharing service vary considerably depending on you you talk to, but note that it's not just for sharing copyrighted files. So, taking legitimate uses in mind, uTorrent Remote may be useful for people using uTorrent on their desktop computer. It's a way to control that from the Windows Phone.Account TrackerGraham Haley's Account Tracker app has been very popular on iOS, and its Windows Phone port is impressive too – properly optimised for Microsoft's OS and its design principles. You can use the app to track spending and bank balances, while setting up alerts and bill reminders.Cracking SandsOff-road racer Cracking Sands is another Xbox Live-enabled game – Microsoft tends to release one a week – which ditches the idea of vehicle categories in favour of a great big free-for-all where dirty tactics go side-by-side with racing skills.Babel Rising 3DAnother game, this time from Ubisoft, which sees you in the shoes of a "great, almighty, and very angry deity" picking on a tribe of humans to ensure they don't get the Tower of Babel built. An interesting spin on the god-game genre.Confused.com ParkingThis is another app with the potential to be really useful: it provides directions to UK car parks, complete with details of how much they charge. Information is also included on whether they have disabled spaces, CCTV, electronic payment and public toilets, with a parking timer feature to help you avoid staying too long. Some early Windows Phone Marketplace reviews are reporting bugs and inaccurate data, but that will hopefully improve.Big Buck Hunter ProIt's safe to say that this week's Xbox-enabled game is firmly targeted at US players, attracted by the idea of shooting "the three biggest whitetail bucks you can find" while being rewarded for "kill distance, impact location and number of shots for the kill".Basketball LiveLess gory, but probably still of most interest in the US, is this handy app providing news, results, stats and live scoreboards from NBA basketball matches. It pulls in Twitter feeds from various broadcasters, and lets you create a "Team Tile" for your preferred team.Mixtapes CloudThis paid app (a free version is also available) focuses on a database of streaming mixtapes, promising thousands available, and search features to filter out ones from favourite DJs and producers. Tracks can also be stored locally on your phone for offline listening.First RowAnother one for the US, this is an app for finding tickets to music gigs and sports events, tapping your location to show those nearest to you, while also filtering by event/artist, venue and date. Tickets can also be bought on the phone itself.L'Wren ScottNokia got fashionable for this exclusive Lumia app, from designer L'Wren Scott. It offers up photos from recent collections, videos of her fashion shows, behind-the-scenes info and details of stockists around the world.TolaFinally, Tola is an app for browsing the DeviantArt online community of artworks, browsing categories, checking new additions every day, and searching for specific works.That's our selection, but what have you been enjoying on your Windows Phone in the last month? Post your recommendations in the comments, or give your views on the apps above if you've used them.
Royal Mail should make its paid-for postcode address file (PAF) listing the locations of 29m residences available for free, says the Open Data User Group, whose chair was appointed by Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude.Heather Savory, who chairs the ODUG, told the Guardian that freeing up the data would bring benefits to businesses that want to use accurate addressing but find the cost and licensing regime imposed by the Royal Mail on PAF licensees too onerous.She said that PAF should be regarded as "core reference data" for businesses whose broader availability would have wide-ranging implications and benefits for the economy and society – while redressing an imbalance in its collection and use."This is data which comes from publicly funded, publicly owned bodies," she told the Guardian. "The Royal Mail is very opaque about the costs and profits of keeping PAF up to date, but we're pretty sure they could afford to make it free."There is a precedent for such a freeing-up of government business-owned data: large amounts of map data belonging to Ordnance Survey, the government-owned trading fund which produces the UK's definitive maps, have been released under a similar licence since April 2010.As part of that initiative, driven by web architect Sir Tim Berners-Lee – and at the urging of the Guardian's Free Our Data campaign – the Royal Mail also released its database which maps the UK's 1.8m postcodes to geolocations for free use. Royal Mail previously imposed charges for use of the postcode location file.However, the PAF contains for more detailed information than the postcode location file. Where that only gives the location corresponding roughly to the centre of a postcode – each of which covers between 1 and 100 addresses, with an average of 15 – the PAF also gives the names of the residences.ODUG quotes Royal Mail figures showing that PAF brings in about £26m in licensing revenue every year, but costs about £24m to run. Savory suggests that a substantial part of those costs lies in administration over the licences for PAF, which is sold in multiple forms and for which Royal Mail operates a stringent intellectual property regime.In a paper to be published on Thursday, the ODUG argues that PAF should be released along with the Ordnance Survey's AddressBase Plus database and the National Street Gazetteer (NAG). Together the three databases comprise the elements of the long sought-for national address dataset. While the PAF contains the names of residences to which post can be delivered, there are many more – such as graveyards and other uninhabited locations – in the OS's AddressBase collection.The UK has never had a single address dataset – apart from the one that was created for the most recent census, but was then immediately destroyed because it was only allowed to be used for that one purpose.The ODUG's radical call would make a huge amount of formerly commercially-charged information which generated revenues of about £26m annually for Royal Mail available under an "Open Government Licence" – letting businesses use it for free. The ODUG argues that any loss in revenues for the Royal Mail would be more than made up by the revenues generated for businesses which would not have to go through onerous licensing procedures to use PAF.Dr Rufus Pollock, the founder of the Open Knowledge Foundation, said making address data easily available was essential: "Every shopping site and delivery service needs up-to-date information of this kind – not only to use on its own but to combine with other sources of data. The lack of open information here is an often invisible barrier to innovation and efficiency. This is not just about the private sector – the government itself lacks a central national address register which hampers the delivery services and benefits to the public. It is high time this national resource funded by the taxpayer is made openly and freely available."•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
Thursday's child is full of grace, goes the old proverb. But what about its chat? Let's find out shall we?
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamLetterpress: one week later &gt;&gt; atebitsIn less than a week, we've blasted past 15 million words played! It has inspired a new form ofpoetry. And even those folks who lost power havefound a way to make do.Loren Brichter wrote Tweetie, which was one of the best third-party Twitter apps. Then Twitter bought it, and it was OK. Then Brichter left, and things got worse. Now he's coding again.How heavy are the latest smartphones? &gt;&gt; Pocket-lintThe British pound (GBP) coin weighs 9.5 grams and is something most of us have in our pocket. It can also help us to assess different weights easily, because you just add or take away coins.For this quick, very unscientific test we've gathered together the weights of the leading smartphones and then divided that number by 9.5. We told you it was simple.Neat idea.Asustek: Nexus 7 Sales approaching 1 million a month &gt;&gt; WSJ Digits blogSales of Google's Nexus 7, made by Taiwan's Asustek Computer, are closing in on 1m units a month, the Taiwanese maker revealed.The 7-inch tablet has created a big buzz this year with its low starting price of US$199, but both Google and Asustek have been cagey about revealing actual sales figures.Asustek executives gave the clearest indication yet, following the company's third-quarter earnings conference on Tuesday."At the beginning, it was, for instance, 500K units a month, then maybe 600, 700K. This latest month, it was close to 1 million," Asustek Chief Financial Officer David Chang told The Wall Street Journal.So that's somewhere between 1.5 and 2m units shipped in the first three months. If Google's revenues suggested only 1m, what does that imply about the amount that it is getting per device - and the cost it has to make up? The Nexus 7 may be a great little device, but is there a sustainable business there?Right on Cue: can iTunes chief fix Apple's maps and Siri? &gt;&gt; CNET News"Eddy [Cue, the new head of services at Apple] doesn't care about those other guys, the flashy executives who want the spotlight," said an executive who has negotiated with Cue. "He's the kind of person who is happy to be in the engine room making sure that everything is clicking along."There's little doubt Jobs trusted Cue with big salvage jobs. Jobs turned over the foundering MobileMe online services to Cue in 2008 after the division launched to scores of glitches. In October 2011, MobileMe turned into iCloud. Apple said in July that the service now has 150 million users.Incredibly, Cue joined Apple in 1989 in its IT department. He appears to have been there longer than any other senior executive.We need Apple and Google to work together again &gt;&gt; Read WriteJon Mitchell bemoans the Silicon Valley split which is doing neither company any benefits - nor their users:Users are getting the short end of the stick on both sides of this Silicon Valley Stand-Off. Apple, Google, come on. It's not worth the effort to keep squabbling like this.I want Google to invent the self-driving car, but I want Apple to design the car. How awesome would that be? But it'll never happen unless these companies get over their B.S. and start acting in their users' best interests.'An iPad is not a device' - Interview with Dave Gray &gt;&gt; Ruben van der LaanThe stuff about the iPad isn't so important; this is about how companies work, or don't.Ruben: But there's more than services in the world. We still need to manufacture products, so we also need those mechanistic jobs.Dave: I'm convinced that services will replace manufactured goods. In essence a manufactured good is a service, it has functionality and that's what you're buying it for. You're buying the product for its service. And increasingly manufacturers will make customized things. That's what we're heading for. You already see initiatives like Zip Car (car sharing company) where a single car is being used by about 15 families. Customers don't own cars anymore they buy the service a car provides.Apple delays iTunes refresh until November &gt;&gt; AllThingsDHere's a smaller bit of unexpected news: [Apple] is delaying the update of its iTunes software. Back in September, Apple said an iTunes overhaul would be out in October. Now it's pushing that back a month.Here's spokesman Tom Neumayr's take: "The new iTunes is taking longer than expected and we wanted to take a little extra time to get it right. We look forward to releasing this new version of iTunes with its dramatically simpler and cleaner interface and seamless integration with iCloud before the end of November."To get rid of the skeuomorphisms?Sandy hits New York &gt;&gt; jalopnik.comThis amazing time lapse video shows Sandy's assault on New York and the moment the lights went out.Uber kills surge pricing in NYC for customers, drivers paid 2X rate to meet post-Sandy demand &gt;&gt; TechCrunchWith the subway systemdown for the countin the wake ofmega-storm Sandy, it's very, very tough to get around New York City today. And this morning, people who opened up theirUberapps to hail a car in Manhattan were met with another obstacle: "Surge pricing" which is when Uber hikes up fare prices during especially busy times.Now, Uber's surge pricing kicks into effect during especially high-traffic times when many people are looking to hail an Uber cab - times like holidays, and late nights after major sporting events. The idea is that even during times of high demand, if someone really needs a ride and is willing to pay, there will be a car available for them. The high pricing balances out the high demand.And while today in New York there is certainly an imbalance of supply and demand, many people thought that Uber deciding to turn on "surge pricing" while the city is working to collectively recover from the storm was distasteful. And they let Uber know - via Twitter, of course.Ayn Rand never drove a taxi after a natural disaster in a large city. Theory, meet practice. Uber "turned off" surge pricing within the hour.Building apps with rail data &gt;&gt; Guardian DatablogGreat hackday report, which included people coding the answers to questions such as "What is trains were on Foursquare?" and "what if travel planning showed the actual shape of the tracks, rather than straight lines?" Wonderful.Voyager 1 detects weirdness at solar system edge &gt;&gt; Discovery NewsVoyager 1 isthe most distant human-made objectand is thought to have recently escaped the sun's sphere of influence. The probe, launched 35 years ago, is therefore mankind's first interstellar vehicle careening into the vast expanse of space between the stars.Needless to say, as one of two deep space probes launched in 1977, Voyager 1 has explored previously unknown regions of the solar system, making groundbreaking discoveries as it went. Now, in a new paper published in the Journal of Geophysical Research, scientists analyzing data streaming from the spacecraft have uncovered a small mystery right at the solar system's magnetic boundary with the interstellar medium.Ooo, mystery at the edge of the solar system. A sci-fi thriller.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Kim Dotcom, founder of the banned Megaupload filesharing site, has announced anew version called Megadesigned to sidestep the American laws under which he is being prosecuted for £175m worth of alleged online piracy, racketeering and money laundering.Dotcom on Thursday announced the new online storage service,   saying it would give users direct control – and responsibility – over their files. The site has previously beenreferred to as Megabox in a teaser video.Dotcom said Mega would launch in January 2013, just before he is scheduled to face a New Zealand extradition hearing brought on by the United States where he and other Megaupload operators face prosecution.The site would not use US-based hosting companies as partners in order to avoid being shut down by US authorities, Dotcom said.The US government alleges that Megaupload, once one of the world's most popular websites, was directly responsible for illegally uploaded content on the site and that it netted $175m from unlawful activities."The new Mega will not be threatened by US prosecutors," Dotcom said,  adding that he was confident Mega would avoid violating US law."The new Mega avoids any dealings with US hosters, US domains and US backbone providers and has changed the way it operates to avoid another takedown."A screen grab from the Mega preview page. Source: kim.comMegaupload was shut down in January 2012 when New Zealand police helicopters swooped into Dotcom's mansion outside Auckland to seize computers and other evidence at the request of US authorities.Users of Mega would be able to upload, store and share photos, text files, music and films, encrypt those files and grant access using unique decryption keys, Dotcom said. "You hold the keys to what you store in the cloud, not us," a statement on the Mega website said.The encryption technology marks a major change from Megaupload as Mega operators will not have access to files, a move that is aimed at making them immune to legal action over copyright infringement.Ensuring that files are not pirated will be the job of content owners, a major change from Megaupload, which the US film industry says ignored illegal content and profited from it."Content owners can still remove infringing material and they will even get direct delete access if they agree not to make us responsible for actions of users," Dotcom said.Dotcom, a German national who holds New Zealand residency, faces an extradition hearing in March even though a New Zealand court ruled that the January raid and seizure were unlawful, while the nation's spy agency was found to have illegally spied on Dotcom.Thursday's announcement was delayed for about one hour after the Mega splash page was overloaded by users. According to Dotcom, much of the traffic was driven by US authorities. "FBI agents pressing reload. We see their IP [internet] addresses," he said on his Twitter feed.
The home secretary, Theresa May, has been told by peers and MPs that her £1.8bn internet monitoring proposals will be a "honeypot for hackers and criminals around the world" and that she must bring in prison sentences for those who hack databases.May has spelled out for the first time the  expected timetable for the introduction of the communications data bill, indicating that she intends it to reach the statute book before the next general election and be "in play" within a few years.The controversial web monitoring proposals in the bill, which opponents call a "snooper's charter", will require internet and phone companies to track the records of every citizen's web and mobile phone use, including social networking sites, without retaining their content, and store them for 12 months.May told parliament's joint committee scrutinising the draft version of the bill that she expects the actual legislation to be introduced later this parliamentary session, which is to run until next summer, and then be carried over to the next session, reaching the statute book by 2014.The committee heard from senior police officers this week that the web monitoring plan was a vital operational tool in infiltrating criminal gangs and tackling security threats in a world where rapidly changing technology meant the authorities were losing the ability to keep track of criminal suspects.Sir Peter Fahy, the Greater Manchester chief constable, said being able to monitor the basic details of who was talking to whom was "absolutely vital" in "proving associations between criminals". The Home Office has argued that, as technology changes and new platforms emerge, the authorities' ability to keep track of suspects has degraded by as much as 25%.But peers and MPs on the joint committee raised fears that the massive increase in the storage of sensitive personal data required could lead to invasion of privacy on a new scale, and be open to criminal attack.A Liberal Democrat peer, Lord Strasburger, described the proposals as a "honeypot for casual hackers, blackmailers, criminals large and small from around the world, and foreign states".A former Labour minister, Nicholas Brown, said the public were frightened they "were going to be spied on" and that "illegally obtained" information would find its way to the public domain.He supported a call from the Information Commissioner for the enactment of powers already on the statute book to impose prison sentences of up to 12 months, and not just heavy fines, for those who unlawfully obtain personal data.The home secretary agreed to look at the detail of the custodial powers specified in sections 77 and 78 of the2008 Criminal Justice and Immigration Act, which carry a public-interest and investigative-journalism defence for those who "blag" access to confidential personal information. The issue is one that Lord Justice Leveson is also expected to pronounce upon.May also agreed to reconsider the terms of clause 1 of the bill, which would give her very widely drawn powers to make orders requiring internet and phone companies to hand over an individual's communications records to "relevant public authorities".May said that this would mainly be used for tackling terrorism, serious crime and paedophilia, but added that the government needed flexibility in the legislation to meet rapid changes in technology and ensure the bill was not outdated by the time it passed. However,  the committee made clear that it was this desire to "future-proof" the legislation that was causing the most public alarm.The home secretary sidestepped questions about how she felt about Britain becoming the first democracy to use the kind of "deep packet inspection" web monitoring system so far only used in China, Iran and Kazakhstan.But May insisted it was a myth that the state was going to read everyone's emails: "There is a limited scope for the data we want to have access to. We have been very clear about that at every stage. The police would have to make a clear case for requesting access to data when there was an investigation that required it."The aim of this is to ensure our law enforcement agencies can carry on having access to the data they find so necessary operationally in terms of investigation, catching criminals and saving lives."Police made urgent requests for communications data in 30,000 cases last year and between 25% and 40% of them had resulted in lives being saved, May said. "I think that matters to the public," she told the committee.
Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Google+, Pinterest: all of them could be the source of valuable intelligence that the UK's intelligence agencies want to know about – and now government eavesdropping and security agency GCHQ is developing new tools to sift through them for nuggets of useful data.The Cheltenham-based organisation is recruiting maths, physics and computing experts to devise groundbreaking algorithms that will automatically extract information from huge volumes of speech, text and image content gathered "across the full range of modern communications media".The secretive listening post plans to use the algorithms to help its surveillance systems make sense of human language, training its computers to automatically identify "valuable intelligence" within huge troves of intercepted data. This will enhance the agency's ability to pick out keywords and phrases from phone calls and emails as they are passing over networks in near real-time, enabling government spies to "find meaningful patterns and relationships" between people deemed a threat, such as suspected terrorists.The revelation has renewed concern over the government'srecently announced plans to upgrade its internet surveillance capabilities, with one leading civil liberties group warning that users of social networking sites are increasingly considered "fair game" as part of sweeping online monitoring efforts.Offering a rare glimpse into the GCHQ's highly classified work, a job vacancy advert posted on its website earlier this month told prospective applicants: "You will be tackling one of the great challenges of our century: how to get computing systems to make sense of human language. Your success will have an immediate impact on our ability to gather and analyse vital intelligence."The work involves devising algorithms, testing them and general problem solving in the broad field of language and text processing. This pioneering research work is open to specialist in mathematical/statistics, computational linguists (eg speech recognition and/or language processing) and language engineering."It added: "Using data-mining techniques, you will help us to find meaningful patterns and relationships in large volumes of data. We are looking for skills across the following areas: data intensive computing ... graph mining (web search, social network analysis), data visualisation and statistical data analysis."The technology being developed by GCHQ will draw comparisons with snooping tools allegedly used by its American counterpart the National Security Agency (NSA). The NSA has access to monitoring software capable of sifting out information including watch-listed names, keywords and phrases from electronic communications flowing through America's networks, according to a sworn statement made by 32-year NSA veteran William Binney as part of a legal case over the spying,recently blocked by the US supreme court.The role of GCHQ is focused heavily on monitoring overseas communications, gathering intelligence to inform foreign policy and military operations. However, it can intercept domestic communications with ministerial authorisation when doing so is judged to be in the interests of national security, safeguarding economic well being, or to prevent and detect serious crime. GCHQ declined to answer specific questions from the Guardian about whether its projects involve intercepting any communications or analysing social networking profiles of individuals located in the UK, with a spokesman saying only that its analysis techniques "are fully aligned with GCHQ's functions as described in the Intelligence Services Act 1994".Nick Pickles, director of civil liberties group Big Brother Watch, questioned whether GCHQ was effectively trying to "create a search engine" enabling it to go on "massive fishing trips" to mine communications."We accept that GCHQ needs power and technology in order to protect the public," Pickles said. "But there's a big difference between pursuing investigations using technology and using technology to go on massive fishing trips, in the process treating anyone using a mobile phone or social media sites as fair game to drag through its digital fishing nets."In 2009, GCHQ wasrevealedto have initiated a programme called Mastering the Internet, a £1bn project to help monitor online communications. But analysing massive volumes of data passing through Britain's networks has proven difficult for the intelligence agency due to advances in internet and mobile technology. In a speech earlier this month, GCHQ director Iain Lobban told an audience at the University of Leeds that its biggest challenges today have come from "the explosion in the volume of communications as well as the relentless increase in new ways of accessing and processing it".Representatives from the National Technical Assistance Centre, a sub-unit of GCHQ, have attended recent meetings with telecom firms – organised by industry body the European Telecommunications Standards Institute – where they have discussed how to upgrade surveillance capabilities to keep pace with new technologies. The government is currently conducting pre-legislative scrutiny of its communications data bill, dubbed the "snoopers' charter" by critics, which is intended to vastly enhance how the authorities are able to monitor internet communications.GCHQ, which employs more than 5,000 people, has had difficulty finding skilled new recruits as it has struggled to compete with salaries offered in the private sector. The parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committeereported(PDF) in July that GCHQ was "losing critical staff with high-end cyber technology skills at up to three times the rate of the corporate average." In a bid to attract fresh talent, the agency is taking a more proactive public role. Itlaunched a cybersecurity competition in September, and last week showcased the work of its "young apprentices" at Manchester Science Festival, demonstrating code-cracking cyber games to mark the centenary of second world war codebreaker Alan Turing.GCHQ declined to comment on how much interest the data mining vacancy had attracted. A spokesman said: "We do not give out information regarding the number of applications for posts."
Microsoft has released the Surface RT, the first Windows device to be designed and built by the company itself rather than by one of its hardware partners. Another thing of note is that the Surface RT, the only model currently available, has an ARM processor and runs Windows RT. An Intel-based version, called Surface Pro, is in preparation.Windows RT is a variant of Windows 8, but locked down so that you cannot install desktop applications. That means no existing Windows software will run – only what comes pre-installed or what you download from the Windows Store. The latter will run in the new "tablet" personality within Windows 8.Nevertheless, Surface RT does include the classic Windows desktop, though in Windows 8 form (ie without the traditional start menu), and Microsoft includes most of Office Home and Student edition: Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote.The chance you take when buying a Surface RT is that you can do all you need using Office, the built-in apps like Mail and Calendar, and whatever you can find in the so-far sparsely populated Windows Store.Windows 8 can be (and usually is) perplexing for users familiar with earlier versions. Surface purchasers get little help with this – Microsoft's line is that detailed help is not necessary."There's no need for manuals or hidden track pad gestures, just touch the screen and click naturally and just don't worry about it," said Windows chief Steven Sinofsky at the launch in New York. Unfortunately, learning the nuances of the right-hand menu, called Charms, for example, usually takes longer, while being essential for some apps.The Windows desktop in Surface appears nearly the same as what you are used to.However, once you become familiar with Windows 8 and Surface, it is generally pleasing to use. The transition between the desktop and the modern touch user interface will always be an odd one, but becomes something you accept as normal in this dual personality operating system.Surface RT is powered by an NVIDIA Tegra 3 quad core chipset, and performance is satisfactory, though by no means anything special. The bundled Pinball FX2 is playable, but not smooth. You will not buy Surface for its performance or specifications, especially since it is missing two significant features: GPS location services and mobile broadband. Internet connection is Wi-Fi only.Elegant designThe reason you might buy Surface is for its design – this is not just another me-too Windows 8 tablet. Heavy use of custom components and an intensive design process have resulted in an elegant device. A fold-out kickstand fits perfectly and closes with a satisfying click, for example.Microsoft also claim exceptional strength for the device, thanks to the use of VarporMg, which is magnesium processed with a Microsoft-developed technique, along with the usual Gorilla Glass on the screen. Sinofksy proved the point at the launch by strapping on wheels and using it as a skateboard.A near-essential accessory for Surface is a keyboard cover, which comes in two varieties. The Touch cover feels like thin, flexible fabric-covered plastic, though apparently it is formed of seven layers. The keys lack any travel, but with practice you can type at a reasonable speed; I'm using it for this review. The beauty of the Touch cover is that it adds little bulk when it folds over to protect the screen.The Type cover is more traditional, though still elegant, with keys that actually depress making it easier to type at speed. Both keyboards can also fold back under the device so there is no need to remove them when using Surface as a tablet. The magnetic attachment used by the keyboards makes a firm grip, but is easy to attach and detach, another detail that is important to the overall experience.The Type cover is more traditional, though still elegant, with keys that actually depress making it easier to type at speedA port on every SurfacePorts on offer include a standard headphone/headset jack socket, USB 2.0 for cameras, storage or accessories, a micro-video port for which you can get HDMI or VGA adaptors, and Micro SDXC card slot. There are front and rear cameras. I tried a Skype call using the new Windows 8 Skype client and it worked well with no headset necessary.Windows RT seems stable, though this is not the case with some of the apps. Fortunately Windows 8 apps are easy to terminate and restart. Office 2013, although still a preview version (the final release is promised soon as a free update) performed without any issues for me.The Surface proposition is that it is worth giving up the freedom of installing desktop applications if the reward is a stable and resilient system that is also less vulnerable to malware. The inclusion of Office makes this a plausible laptop replacement, as well as a tablet for media consumption and entertainment.The snag is that at this early stage in the evolution of the new Windows Store, some desktop applications are hard to do without. I missed the password manager that I normally rely on, as well as Windows Live Writer, my preferred blogging tool. In some cases, as with business users who need custom applications, the inability to run existing Windows application will be more than an annoyance and make Surface unusable.Another open question is whether Windows RT makes sense bearing in mind that Surface Pro, as well as third-party Windows 8 tablets, will run almost any existing Windows application.For now though, Surface RT gets better efficiency, and therefore a lighter weight, thanks to ARM; and this together with the enforced simplicity of apps that can only be installed from the Windows Store makes it worth considering.At current prices Surface RT is hardly a bargain, but what Microsoft has created is something new, an attractive device that (within certain limitations) combines work and play into a single compact package. If high-quality Windows Store apps start to flow, it will be a winner. Currently you need to be a little brave, but Surface RT is still appealing, provided purchasers understand that, Office aside, none of the huge legacy of Windows applications will run.
If you ever wanted proof that some publishers in the video games industry tally earnings that dwarf those of all other forms of entertainment, cast a weather eye at the landlocked country of Liechtenstein. On Wednesday, Xbox 360 becomes the first ever brand to transform the Principality of Liechtenstein by taking over some of the country's landmarks to promote the forthcoming launch of Halo 4.According to news streaming in about this bizarre marketing initiative, Xbox 360 has decked out Gutenberg Castle as a Halo 4-themed military installation and installed a United Nations Space Command military camp in the nearby countryside.To top it all off, it's re-worked a mining quarry as some kind of battleground for punters to take part in what they're calling "an immersive adventure", which will apparently feature an appearance from Master Chief driving an honest-to-God Warthog.Yes, it is a Warthog. Yes, it’s real. The Master Chief is going to put in an appearance as part of the marketing push. Photograph: Getty Images for Halo by Xbox 360This is only the latest in a series of marketing initiatives instigated by the Xbox 360 team. Earlier last month they announced Oscar-nominated director David Fincher (Se7en, Fight Club, The Social Network) was behind the creation of Halo 4's trailer and Neil Davidge, co-writer and producer with Massive Attack, is scoring the game.It seems to be worth noting the barmy extent to which Microsoft is going to promote Halo 4, if only because each year a new marketing strategy tries to out do the competition. Think about it, as far back at 2008, EA transformed a petrol station into a military style bunker and gave away free petrol to people in order to promote the game Mercenaries 2: World in Flames.Last year, Activision took over Howard Hughes's old airplane hangar in Los Angeles for Call of Duty XP, an event in which COD fans could take part in tournaments, hurtle through obstacle courses, shoot each other on paintball maps, gawp at real-life versions of the weapons in the COD games and cap off the experience by watching Kanye West live in concert.Gutenburg Castle was kitted out as a Halo 4-themed installation as part of the marketing drive. Photograph: Getty Images for Halo by Xbox 360Now Xbox 360 has transformed a country. A small country to be sure, but it's a country nonetheless and all to promote the release of a game you'd have to have been locked in an isolation ward for about three years to not know about. Still, here's hoping they're having fun and also that, unlike both EA's and Activision's marketing initiatives mentioned above, no motorists are inconvenienced.We have to shake our heads in incredulous awe. First a petrol station, then an airplane hanger and now Liechtenstein. We wonder what it'll take to top this? Maybe Brussels should start pitching itself as a gaming venue …
One has to be careful of taking the beauty in Assassin's Creed 3 for granted. This is a thought that occurred to me about 10 hours in as I piloted the franchise's newest protagonist through a sun-dappled forest glade en route to completing my latest side mission.Because Assassin's Creed 3 is bursting with activities, my attention to detail had shrunken somewhat. I caution against a blinkered approach – stop and take in the view sometime.This is because once one steps back and bothers to survey the game's environment, one can't help but be bowled over. In the brief moment I hurtled through the trees towards my destination, I gazed across a pine forest expanse, over a rock-encrusted river that spilled into a glistening lake by way of a waterfall dropping off a sheer cliff face.It was like something out of a Terence Malik film. And not only is the world encased in Assassin's Creed 3 an intricately presented breathtaking marvel to behold, it's age and region specific too.It's worth pointing all of this out because, by now, aching beauty and painstaking attention to historic detail – both visual and temporal – have become calling cards of the Assassin's Creed series. That's why they're so easy to take for granted.Every returning fan knows that the moment they boot up the latest entry in Ubisoft's open world epic that follows the centuries-spanning war between the Assassins and the Templars, they'll be greeted with a window into a bygone age, complete with historically accurate landscapes and characters stepping straight out of history. So it feels right to tip one's hat to the developers, given that these games now appear on an annual basis.The stakes for Assassin's Creed 3, though, are higher than in previous years. First off, the action leaves Renaissance Europe and heads to North America in the 1700s, dumping the rooftop playgrounds of Florence, Rome and Istanbul in favour of the wide-open American frontier and the (slightly) less wide streets of colonial Boston and New York.Second, the previous instalment in the franchise, Revelations, saw the end of tenure for one of the most compelling, likable and engaging protagonists in the gaming medium: Ezio Auditore da Firenze. As unfair as it may sound to start a review of a game by laying into its protagonist, Ezio is sorely missed here.His replacement, Connor Kenway, a half-Briton half-Native American with a tomahawk to grind against the British (and the Templars) replaces all of the charisma of his predecessor with a furrowed brow and not much else. In his narrative arc, during which the player controls him first as a child, then a moody adolescent and then an even moodier young man, Connor sees his village and his mother obliterated by evil British Templars, before he hooks up with the last remnants of the Order of Assassins on an estate just outside of Boston.He has issues, certainly, but would it have hurt to make him interesting? To say he's dull is something of an understatement; it would be more accurate to describe him as a po-faced humourless clutchplate. Long-time fans of the series will find that switching from Ezio to Connor is kind of like watching an emo garage band trying to keep an audience's attention when Queen was their opening act. The best thing you could say about him is that he's more engaging than the series' main protagonist, Desmond. Mind you, the space between this paragraph and the next is more interesting than Desmond.However, Connor does have two or three assets to draw players in. First off, the story in which he takes the lead is easily the best and most layered offering Ubisoft Montreal has produced to date. Here, the aims of the different factions are by no means clear-cut; the Templars are no longer carnival villains and it's questionable that the Assassins are entirely on the side of the angels.The American Revolution is the perfect backdrop to the plot's secret war; time and time again characters on the front lines of both conflicts blur the line between tactical expediency and moral bankruptcy. Before the release of this game, the fact that Connor seemed to spend most of his time in the trailers hacking up Brits prompted some commentators to wonder out loud if Assassin's Creed 3 was simply US hagiography. Nothing could be further from the truth (and as a side-note I'm interested to hear what Americans make of Ubisoft's portrayal of Paul Revere in the game).Connor's other assets are the world he inhabits and the fact that he's a veritable Swiss army knife of death dealing. Not only does he have a ton of lethal gadgets – much like his predecessors – but the developers have constructed his missions in such a way that one never feels like unimaginative rot is setting in.Aside from the usual shadowing of targets from rooftops followed by swift kills using a hidden blade, players will use Connor to liberate small towns, marshal squads of musket bearers, conduct cannon volleys and even take part in naval battles with enemy warships. He can even trap and skin the odd animal should the player so desire.Like previous iterations, Assassin's Creed 3 allows players to build up and maintain a microcosm of commerce around the protagonist's base of operations. To that end, Connor can allow trappers, loggers and a bevy of other 18th century craftsmen to set up shop on the grounds around his estate and the player is able to trade goods with them and craft items from the resources they pick up in these sales.There are also, naturally, a ton of collectibles in the form of almanac pages, feathers, treasure chests and pirate trinkets. Players can even stop off in the local pubs for a game of Morris if they so desire. (In the interests of full disclosure, I'm not sure how Ubisoft's alleged micro-transactions factor into all of this, as I was never prompted to pull my wallet out at any stage.)Combat has received a bit of a tweak. The changes that have been made aren't radical, but it's certainly worth taking note of the tutorial for the new system – although if you've played Batman: Arkham City recently, you should be on relatively safe ground. What really prompts discussion is the new environments and how the game's signature free-running mechanics cope with them.The answer here is: better than you'd expect. While the roads in the American colonial cities are wider, the developers have placed trees between the streets that can't be bridged with one jump. Not only does this help finesse the player's passage between rooftops, it also happens to be historically accurate, too. The American frontier, however, takes some getting used to, but the good news is players will eventually take to it.Depending on how quickly one acclimatises, one may spend a half hour or so scaling trees and looking for the next hand hold. Once players realise the frontier environments are large free-running playgrounds, they'll be running along logs, kicking off boulders and leaping from tree to tree in no time. The fact that the developers have made this progression feel so intuitive is astounding.It's possible to lose days in Assassin's Creed 3, although if players stick doggedly to the campaign, they'll clock in about 20 hours. On top of that, there's a multiplayer – and for a game where the focus for most of the fanbase will be the single-player, this one's actually rather good. Alongside the traditional mode where players try to take out adversaries while trying to remain hidden, there's Wolf Pack Mode in which they have to co-ordinate attacks around NPCs.There are obviously niggles that have carried over from earlier iterations. Yes, the players have negligible agency when sprinting. Yes, the new protagonist becomes a crushing bore at the umpteenth hour. Yes, the story outside the Animus is rubbish. But the scope, ambition, beauty and flat-out bravery of Assassin's Creed3 puts it in the land of the giants.If you're a fan of the series, you'll be delighted. If you're a newcomer, you'll be enthralled – and good luck understanding the main narrative. The only complaint one could have is about the game's protagonist. But who knows? Maybe he won't here next year. And if he is, could the developer please have him cheer the hell up?• Game reviewed on Xbox360
I can remember my first experience of a James Bond computer game. It was the Commodore 64 version of View to a Kill, released by Domark Software in 1985. I distinctly recall awkwardly driving a tiny block-like taxi around a depiction of Paris that resembled a series of green sticking plasters haphazardly slapped over each other. And I thought to myself, this in no way captures the experience of watching a James Bond movie. It would turn out to be a prescient observation.Fast forward to 2012 and the latest Bond flick is thrilling movie-goers with its gritty action, complex plot and compelling central performance. But there is no direct video game tie-in. Instead, there are a couple of sequences from Skyfall tucked into a game called 007 Legends, a sort of best-of-Bond compendium, released last week by Activision and featuring bits from the likes of Moonraker, Licence to Kill and Die Another Day. It's an okay first-person shooter, but critics are more or less unanimous in declaring that… it in no way captures the experience of watching a James Bond movie.And indeed, various publishers and developers have been gamely failing to capture the experience of watching a James Bond for the intervening 27 years. Electronic Arts had a couple of decent goes with its PlayStation 2-era shooters 007: Agent Under Fire and 007: Everything or Nothing, but then it lost (or rather gave) the license to Activision. After this, we got a Quantum of Solace game, a title which at least matched its movie inspiration for distinctly averageness; then came a follow-up, 007 Blood Stone, featuring a story by Bond screenwriter Bruce Feirstein, which had some gutsy combat, but also inexplicably, Joss Stone in a starring role. That is not a typo, that is Joss Stone.So what has been the problem? Why have games completely failed to give us an experience that resembles the practise, or at least our rosiest memories, of watching James Bond movies?Well, there's a rather uncharitable answer and it involves the best Bond game ever made, GoldenEye. Released on the N64 in 1997 this brilliantly conceived shooter, with its clever missions and excellent multiplayer mode, was the product of British developer, Rare, during the height of its extraordinary abilities. GoldenEye was only ever a mediocre Bond flick, but in the hands of designers like David Doak and Martin Hollis, working at a studio that had recently created great titles such as Donkey Kong Country and Killer Instinct, it became a classic video game.And this was, perhaps, the only time when a major developer absolutely at the top of its game was given a James Bond title to produce. Sure, EA Redwood Shores which developed Agent Under Fire and Everything or Nothing would go on to become Visceral Games and make the spine-tingling Dead Space titles, but it tackled 007 very early in its lifespan. At the other end of the scale, Bizarre Creations, once one of the UK's most brilliant and talented studios, handled Blood Stone at the very end of its life, no doubt tired out and disillusioned by the failure of driving game, Blur. Quantum of Solace, meanwhile, was produced by Treyarch, right after its not-very-good Spider-Man 3 translation and before its passable Call of Duty: World At War. Not comfortable bedfellows for Bond.But I'm not sure that explains things entirely. Instead, I think there has been a major misunderstanding about how Bond films actually work. Most tie-ins have concentrated on the globe-trotting nature of the scripts, theorising that this sense of variety captures the essence of the Bond experience. What we've commonly ended up with then, are games that clatter uncomfortably between game styles, switching quickly from shoot-out set-pieces to vehicle driving challenges, all delivered in a breathless assault of exotic locations. And on paper, this is sort of the right thing to do – Bond movies are about action, adventure and constant forward momentum.Except they're not really. Although action scenes are a key ingredient, what Bond has always been about is Bond. Ian Fleming's strange and elusive character is the enigma at the heart of every movie; a psychopathically charming and manipulative monster invented by Fleming as a wildly exaggerated version of himself. The moments we tend to remember are those of the character coolly loafing about in casinos asking for his Martini to be prepared in the wrong way. We remember him watching Ursula Andress emerge from the sea, or kissing Jane Seymour as a Tarot pack full of Lover cards tumbles from his hand. When you think of Bond, youthinkyou're thinking of fast cars, but you're really thinking of Bond in fast cars. And the cool expression on his face when he flips a switch and launches a missile or an oil slick or something.James Bond movies are, unlike many action flicks, utterly inseparable from the act of watching the lead character. Bond films are romances between Bond and the audience. Games have trouble exploring that because they make the central error of thinking we all want tobeBond. Some people do, perhaps, but most just want to watch him. And even if you do want to be him, the things you want to do aren't those that games can adequately reflect or reproduce. You can't press X to be charming and urbane; you can't hit the O button to send a glass of Chateau Margaux 1985 across a Monte Carlo casino toward a beautiful heiress. Well, you could, but it's unlikely to figure in a Treyarch tie-in.Perhaps the answer for the future is to come at the universe of Bond from very different perspectives. For example, Sony has commissioneda clever text adventureto coincide with the release of Skyfall. Designed by UK studio Hide&amp;Seek, it gets players to imagine that they are M16 operatives carrying out a British intelligence officer exam, and the five missions involve communicating with a chatbot. It's totally unlike any of the flashy polygonal blasters we've seen on consoles, but it allows us to explore the 'universe' of Bond in a non-conflicting way."I think that a lot of Bond tie-ins have suffered from the fate of many movie licenses - that is, they are rushed out for the film release, rather than being lovingly created from scratch," says Hide&amp;Seek director Alex Fleetwood. "Our game benefits hugely from the enormous literacy that players have with the world of Bond - the limitations of a text adventure leaves lots of space for the player's imagination to operate. It's interesting, isn't it, that the Bondworldhas been underexploited from the perspective of games, especially when compared with Star Wars. It feels like there's a ton of opportunity there if the licensing could be worked out... "Maybe the way ahead is in offbeat games that explore little facets of the universe, or games that allow us to sit in chic bars and order up drinks and chat to dangerous men and beautiful women. Or games that let uswatchBond, as we have for the last 50 years, maybe sorting out his missions for him, or being his sidekick.Instead, we will probably get, for the next 50 years, a succession of big, bloated multi-stage adventures that don't really understand Bond at all.
Remember the iPod mini? When Apple launched that in January 2004, at a time when a huge swathe of the fast-growing digital music player market was still up for grabs, people thought Apple was crazy. Only 4GB of storage – less than in the original 5GB model launched in 2001? A $249 price tag – only $50 less than the base level "iPod". Well, said the critics, Apple had finally messed up after a couple of years of getting it right. It was doomed.Turned out it wasn't; the iPod mini became the best-selling iPod (until the iPod nano in September 2005).Why point this out? Because much the same critique has been applied to the iPad mini, Apple's 7.85in device. It's just smaller (though nobody seems to be calling it "a big iPod Touch" – perhaps that wore thin after the first few thousand times following the original iPad's launch). It's too pricey; there are others which are already in the market.As I've said earlier, there are some key differences between the iPod market of 2004 and today's mini-tablet market. The key one is that in the 2004 market, all the rivals needed to make a profit on their hardware; they couldn't make it up from selling music. This time round, Amazon and Google in particular can sell the hardware at a loss in order to goose their market share, if not immediately their profits. So Apple has a fight on its hands in pricing, not just design.But let's by dealing with the iPad mini as it is, on its own terms.Build quality: seamlessJonathan Ive doesn't like seams. He doesn't like any sort of break in the surface of objects, even manufactured ones. One of the notable things about the first iPod was that there was no obvious way to break it open, and the trend in all of Apple products – including the computers – is the same.You'll do well to get a scalpel blade between the iPad mini's screen and its bezel. There's no flex in the body; it's really solid. I was using a black model; it isn't obviously metal until you touch it. As with its bigger sibling, the headphone jack is on the top – unlike the iPhone 5, where it has migrated to the bottom.DimensionsThis is worthy of mention because everyone has been focused on the Amazon Kindle Fire in comparison to the iPad mini (and of course Google Nexus 7). I compared an iPad mini beside a Kindle Fire, and was surprised to find that they'realmost exactly the same sizein both width and length, though the iPad mini is thinner.Similarly, compare it with the Nexus 7. Here are the figures for the iPad mini: 199mm x 133mm; the Nexus 7, 198.5mm x 120mm. You get 1.3cm – that's half an inch - width difference between the Nexus 7 and the iPad mini. This surprised me – I thought that the iPad mini would be substantially wider. But it's not, and at that width you can slip it into an outside jacket pocket or a roomy coat pocket or, of course, a bag.How though does the iPad mini manage to be so small if it has a 7.85in screen, while the others have just 7in screens? By having a much thinner border along the long edges. It's 20mm wide at the short edges, but just 5mm on the long ones. This isn't just a shrunk-down iPad, where the borders are 20mm and 17mm (short, long). Apple has made a definite effort to create something that can be slipped into generous pockets.WeightWhat will surprise you is the weight. Thespecsalready show that the iPad mini is lighter than the Kindle Fire, 308g v 395g (and 340g for the Nexus 7); even if you add on a Smart Cover, it's still lighter than the uncovered Kindle Fire. It's thinner too. This is a device that will be ideal for holding in one hand for reading on train rides or other commuting; or you might even forget it's in that coat pocket.What the iPod mini demonstrated, and what the MacBook Air demonstrated, and pretty much every breakthrough in mobility demonstrates, is that lighter is better – and if you can do lighter and bigger, you're really onto a winner. (This is part of how the Samsung Galaxy S3 has done so well: big screen, light phone.)The iPad mini (308g) feels like it isn't really there. Certainly you'll not get tired of holding it, which could happen with the iPad (652g).Battery lifeAs with previous iPads, battery life is easily in the nine-hour-plus mark. Charging is via the new Lightning connector, and as with the iPhone, the iPad now recharges very quickly – half an hour will easily add four or five times as much use. I didn't get a chance to try it out on a 4G/LTE network, so don't know how that affects battery life. (Mobile versions sold in the UK will initially be compatible with EE's 1800MHz network, and Three's next year.)ScreenIt's not a retina screen! It's only 1024x768, so that the resolution is 163ppi. This has been a big complaint (or snark, in some cases) that I've heard from people who haven't laid eyes on this device. If all you read is specifications, then the iPad mini screen is far worse than the Kindle Fire's or Nexus 7's, right?Well, put them beside each other, and the story changes. Web page rendering on the Kindle Fire is, frankly, awful. It's blocky, and there's a yellowish cast which personally I dislike. The iPad mini is bright, and white, and the text rendering is good – and there's no obvious pixellation. Kindle books look as good on the iPad mini as on the Kindle Fire. (The latter is optimised for reading those, but not for the web; Amazon would rather you bought books than surfed the web.) Icons on the iPad mini look sharp; on the Kindle Fire, not really.ScrollingWith long lists, it's smooth and untroubled; this is something Apple has prioritised. Again, the comparison with Android, where scrolling has always been a bugbear, is stark; get a long article with lots of comments on a website, and you'll get a smooth scroll. That's not always the case on Android devices, where some will give jerky performance, no matter how many cores their processor has. Specs, eh? They can lead you astray.Setup experienceIf you have an iOS device already – iPod Touch, iPhone, iPad – then you can log into your iCloud account and all the apps and content you've already bought, plus all your settings including alarms can be transferred wirelessly. (If you've got multiple devices backed up, you get to choose which it's restored from. Alternatively, you can just use a wire and an iTunes backup.) Android tries, but doesn't quite get to the granular level that iCloud does, and that's a big difference in user-friendliness.User accountsThere aren't any. This is the biggest failing in iOS at present. Now that Google has announced that Android will support a form of user accounts on tablets, and Windows Phone 8 offers "Kids Corner" (fenced-off apps you can let the kids use), and Windows RT tablets support multiple signins, iOS is starting to look like the odd one out. One tablet per person is great for Apple, but it's not so great for the squeezed middle. Single-user iPhones yes; multi-user iPads, yes please.KeyboardOf course, there isn't an inbuilt keyboard. But the question is, is the onscreen version too small to type on? No – used in landscape or portrait, the keys are large enough even for my hands. Despite the smaller screen, touch targets aren't too small either. In short, you can still type quite accurately (and certainly more accurately than on an iPhone) and manipulate onscreen objects. I don't think that many app developers will be redoing their existing iPad 2 apps.In fact, games developers are quite excited by the idea of the iPad mini, because they reckon it will mean more players using the device in landscape mode who will be able to span the bottom of the screen with their thumbs (personally, I could) – something that was impossible with the iPad, which anyway gets too heavy.CamerasiPad mini: rear camera picture taken in the Guardian offices. Click for larger version.Available front and back – here's an example shot with the camera on the back. There's no Panorama option with the rear camera, which is a strange omission.AppsExisting iPad apps work perfectly well. I tried the Brian Cox Wonders app, which includes videos. I criticised the Nexus 7 for theextent of letterboxingon its 16:9 screen, so will I do the same for the iPad mini?iPad mini showing letterboxing of video: the physical screen border is the darker black band along the top; viewable screen extends to that edge, including the dark grey element at top. Border is same width below.Yup – you get some pretty hefty letterboxing here too. Here's the thing, though: because the border around the long edges is so much thinner than at the edges, the overall effect is no worse than the Nexus 7; given that proportionally less of the space is lost to the border, you could argue it's a less compromised experience.For comparison, here's the Nexus 7 letterboxing:It might not be immediately obvious, but if you look closely then you can see that the physical border is much wider in the Nexus 7 than on the iPad mini.iPhone apps' behaviour can be hit-and-miss: some fit the screen neatly when expanded to the "2x" size, others overlap the edges (I'm looking at you, Tube Deluxe), others just look blocky (hello, Amazon – though there is a proper Amazon iPad app). There isn't the spare room that the larger iPad has around the edges when you expand the size of the iPhone app on the mini's screen. Then again, with the huge number of iPad apps available, this probably won't be a problem.PriceYes, let's talk about the price. As mentioned above, Apple isn't looking to race to the bottom on price, because its objective (make a profit on hardware) isn't aligned to that of Google and Amazon (sell hardware near cost, profit on content or from users' web browsing). That said, at £269 for the 16GB model, you're getting an impressively light, small tablet which (if you buy the connectors, or have them) can take your camera pictures, or just take pictures itself. There's AirPlay, the wireless audio and video connection – if you have an AppleTV (£99) then you can run iPlayer on the iPad and "throw" it over to the AppleTV and watch it on a big screen; no wires. And it's not hugely more expensive than the Nexus 7, though the Kindle Fire is much cheaper. If price is your only consideration, though, an iPad probably hasn't been on your shopping list anyway.ConclusionThose in favour: excellent build quality; very light, comparatively large screen, not significantly wider than competition (for putting in coat pockets), excellent text rendering, huge selection of apps, music, books and films, pain-free setup from iCloud backups for existing accounts; 3G/4G LTE option; fast-growing range of accessories.Those against: price is higher than rivals – at£229£269, it's£40£110more than the £159 16GB Nexus 7; no expandable storage; letterboxing of films; no HDMI out (though AirPlay is a wireless equivalent).Lining those pluses and minuses up against those for the Nexus 7 – which garnered four stars – there's no doubt that this is indeed a five-star device. The20%70%difference in comparative price is more than made up by the difference in build quality and software selection. (Update: I originally had the relative prices of the Nexus 7 and the iPad mini wrong - the mini too low and the Nexus 7 too high. I apologise for the error, which was significant. Is the difference enough to justify buying the Nexus 7 instead? If budget or OS is the single driver of your decision, then certainly the Nexus 7's price is a substantial saving on the iPad mini.)Apple is going to sell a lot of these – quite possibly more than the "large" iPad – in this quarter. The only way Apple could improve on this product would be (as some people are already agitating) to give it a retina screen and somehow make it lighter. That might happen at some point. You can wait if you like; other people, in the meantime, will be buying this one.Apple iPad mini: available in black or white.16GB Wi-Fi: £269;32GB Wi-fi: £349;64 GB Wi-Fi: £429;With 3G &amp; 4G/LTE (compatible with EE in UK):16GB &amp; 3G/4G: £369;32GB &amp; 3G/4G: £449;63GB &amp; 3G/4G: £529Corrected: price and relative difference was wrong in final paragraphs. Added: prices for various models.
Wooooooooooh, it's Halloween! Let's sit around and tell video game ghost stories.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft says apps coming to Windows, consumers upgrade &gt;&gt; BloombergMicrosoft chief executive officer Steve Ballmer said 4 million Windows 8 upgrades were sold to consumers since the flagship operating system for personal computers went on sale last week.In context: usual Windows PC sales are between 80m and 90m per quarter, ie around 1m every day of the week. How many days has it been since Windows 8 was launched? Still, Twitter, ESPN, Lego and Disney are working on new versions of apps for it.I dreamed about a human being &gt;&gt; Fran SimóHow would a robot imagine a human face? "I dreamed about a human being" is like spying into a robot's brain."I dreamed about a human being" is part of a project exploring the use of artificial intelligence as applied to photography by using online open source code and data. The project already has a database of 56 million images. We have freely accessible amazing tools and databases of gigantic images, but have not yet fully understood what we can do with them or what it means that they are there.Intriguing project.Windows Phone 8: this time for sure? &gt;&gt; TIME.comNormally, the tech industry is a meritocracy: Impressive pieces of work tend to do well. But if there's one thing we've learned from Windows Phone to date, it's that impressive products sometimes fail to take off.With mobile phones, the alchemy of success is particularly complex. An operating system such as Windows Phone has four constituencies: consumers, developers, manufacturers and carriers. It's tough for an operating-system company to come up with something compelling for any one of these groups unless it gets all of them excited, all at once. And with the iPhone and Android so deeply entrenched in their own ways, it hasn't been entirely clear whether the market has room for a strong number three mobile platform.Not a review, more a walk through some of the new things in Windows Phone 8, and a musing on its challenges.John Browett's turbulent six months in charge of Apple Retail &gt;&gt; The Next WebIt didn't go well.Google's Nexus 10 goes for the iPad's jugular | Mobile - CNET NewsThe Nexus 10, announced today, boasts features such as Android 4.2 (Jelly Bean), a 2560-by-1600 pixel density 10-inch display and a dual-core ARM Cortex A15 processor, the first tablet from a top-tier vendor to use ARM's latest chip technology.The iPad is still ahead on connectivity, though. Google is not currently offering a version of the Nexus 10 with 3G or 4G/LTE. And, needless to say, hardware alone does not define a device.The Google tablet is thinner, lighter, and boasts a higher pixel density (300ppi v 264ppi)."Having winning hardware specs is important but only one piece of the total tablet experience. Android is narrowing the gap but iOS is still leading on the content and applications race, which is a big component of the end-user's purchase decision," said Rhoda Alexander, an analyst at IHS-iSuppli.If you have a display where the pixels aren't visible, does it make any difference if another display has pixels which are even less visible? (And wouldn't the key question be how well the icons and other content is designed, not just the native screen?)Given tablets but no teachers, Ethiopian children teach themselves &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewWith 100 million first-grade-aged children worldwide having no access to schooling, the One Laptop Per Child organization is trying something new in two remote Ethiopian villages--simply dropping off tablet computers with preloaded programs and seeing what happens.The goal: to see if illiterate kids with no previous exposure to written words can learn how to read all by themselves, by experimenting with the tablet and its preloaded alphabet-training games, e-books, movies, cartoons, paintings, and other programs.Motorola Xooms, since you're asking.Microsoft Surface with Windows RT review &gt;&gt; gdgtProfessionals and amateur reviewers disagree on the merits of the Surface. But why? (Thanks @mbrit on Twitter for the link.)Dear Samsung Galaxy Note II: it's not you, it's me &gt;&gt; WSJ.comA video in which Liz Gannes offers her quick review of the SGSN2.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Google is marking Halloween with an interactive doodle that animates some spooky happenings on a street where assorted ghouls and creatures are brought to life by users clicking on four front doors.The inhabitants behind the doors, including a central one which is suitably numbered 13, double up to form the letters of the Google logo.They include a blue one-eyed octopus, which stands for 'G', a pair of red and yellow eyes which provide the two 'Os' and a veiled ghost which forms the second 'G'. A skeleton is the 'L' while a smiley face that turns into a monster represents the 'E'.An eerie soundtrack plays in the background, although those of a nervous disposition can turn the sound off.The Guardian has set up a Halloween Flickr groupfollowing on from the fun last year when readers posted pictures of their ghoulish gourds and creative costumes.To share your pictures,join the group hereand upload your image to the group pool.Readers on Pinterest can also share a pin of their creation by including the hashtag #guardianhalloween in the description.The best will be collated in a Halloween pinboard.
Painfully slow mobile internet connections have long been a bugbear for smartphone owners made to wait while trying to load a simple map or webpage.  But things may be changing, if the mobile operator EE is to be believed, after it launched the UK's first fourth-generation network on Tuesday, promising speeds faster than most home broadband services.Setting out to test EE's network around London with a HTC phone and 4G sim card supplied by the company, the Guardian was able to load the latest episode of Top Gear in less than 50 seconds in King's Cross– significantly faster than our tests on an Apple iPhone 5 using 3G.Downloading the Angry Birds app took 16 seconds on the same 12.5 megabits per second (Mbps) connection, which is noticeably quicker than the average home broadband at 8Mbps.General internet use – loading web pages, sending email and scanning Facebook or Twitter – is also faster over 4G, but more data-intensive tasks are where the network comes into its own. Loading the high-definition video for Carly Rae Jepson's track This Kiss took three seconds outdoors in Old Street, compared with eight seconds on a 3G connection.But some remain unconvinced about the affordability of an EE 4G service, which costs £36 a month for 500MB of data, the equivalent of streaming a single one-hour programme on iPlayer or making a two-hour Skype video call."I imagine it will take off eventually but the first thing I've heard is how expensive it is," said Dan Blows, a developer at the TechHub startup workshop in Old Street, which is sometimes nicknamed Silicon Roundabout due to the prevalence of tech firms in the area. "I can't see many people upgrading just for bit of extra speed."Some new 4G users in Southwark, south London, and in Manchester reported speeds of up to 19Mbps, which would rival some superfast fibre connections mainly used by businesses.EE's 4G network opened for business in Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Leeds, Liverpool, London, Manchester, Sheffield and Southampton, with a further five cities to be added before Christmas. Vodafone, O2 and Three will be able to launch their own 4G services in May.James Barford, of Enders Analysis, estimated that one in 10 mobile owners in the UK would benefit from 4G in the near future and predicted it would remain a largely premium service."There are a lot of everyday smartphone tasks that faster speeds will make quicker and easier, so it is an improvement in those terms," he said. "For the moment 4G is likely to be better than latest version of 3G because it's an empty network. If EE gets in the low hundreds of thousands of users by the end of the year, that will be pretty impressive. The price plans are as much a statement that 4G is a premium product, and they'll market it that way."
Google's latest Nexus-branded tablet, the Samsung-made Nexus 10, is as impressive in the flesh as its specs are on paper (well,blog post).It's light, with an excellent screen, powerful processor, and a strong suite of Google apps and services. And the apps? Well, that's traditionally been something of an Achilles Heel for Android tablets.This hasn't gone unnoticed by Google's fiercest rival, with several Apple keynotes including segments where executives gleefully compared iPad's large catalogue of native apps with some of the worse examples of Android's blown-up smartphone apps pretending to be tablet software.The Nexus 10 is one of a new breed of Android tablets that deserves better: it needs more high-quality native apps made by developers other than Google, to match the quality of its hardware and software.Google agrees."We'd like developers to think more and more about great tablet experiences. There's a lot of really good Android tablets out there now," says Robert Hamilton, product manager in Google's mobile team."The Nexus 10 is a world-class device that we think will be really successful, so we want more people to take advantage of the tools that Android provides for developers to think about what their tablet experience is."I spoke to Hamilton the morning after Google unveiled the Nexus 10 alongside its new Nexus 4 smartphone, and an improved version of its existing Nexus 7 tablet with more storage and cellular connectivity.The obvious question: will more developers invest more resources in making apps for Android tablets, rather than just blowing up their smartphone versions.It's a chewy question, because developer support is about more than slinky devices going on sale. It's about whether they think they'll make money: whether they'll make enough of a return on their investment to justify the time and cost.Hamilton says the tide is turning, and while you might expect him to say that, he's not grandstanding when he suggests developers are thinking harder about how to make better Android tablet apps."We're starting to see some developers doing that, but we really hope that all developers will," he says."We actually think that the Nexus 7 was the tipping point and this [the Nexus 10] is pushing it further. The Nexus 7 was the point when people said 'Y'know what? We should be making it rock on those devices'. We are seeing the smart Android developers move quickly towards great tablet experiences, which sometimes means rethinking their apps."Hamilton says he's seeing more Android developers thinking about tablet development not just in terms of supporting a bigger screen, but also taking into account different usage habits for tablets: where they're used, how they're used and what they're used for."We've had longer to think about how people interact with phones, and fantastic developers have been building mobile apps for a long time, so they've been able to use their experience," he says."Nobody's got as much experience of tablet devices, but that's going to change as we understand more about users."That applies to Google itself, and the way the Android software is evolving. One good example is the option in the latest 4.2 software to set up multiple users on a single tablet, then switch between them.A simple feature, but recognition that in many households, several people are sharing the same tablet – something that Apple has yet to build into iPad's iOS software."For some people, it's good because they've got their Gmail on there and want to keep it private and secure. Other people get upset because their high scores in their favourite game get messed up when somebody else plays it," says Hamilton.He also enthuses about the other new features in Android 4.2, such as its stripped-down camera interface; the Photo Sphere 360-degree photography feature; placing widgets on the device's lock screen; new cards for the Google Now app; and Swype-style gestural typing on the native Android keyboard.It's very impressive, if you want to tinker. But how is Google walking the line between helping people who want to customise their Android device – geeks like this writer and most of the people reading this piece – and everyone else? Remember, the majority of those 1.3m Android devices being activated every day aren't being bought by geeks.Hamilton describes Android's growing customisation features as "fine-tuning for people who want to do it", and accepts that it shouldn't be necessary for those who don't."We want to build a really fluid and immersive experience for everyone, whilst recognising that for a lot of people, this device is like your desk. This is something that you want optimised: you don't want things in the wrong drawer," he says."Think about how annoying it is when you sit at someone else's desk for a day. It's the same with smartphones. Hell is using someone else's phone, and that's why multi-user and customisation are important. They go hand-in-hand."Well, they do on Android tablets: for now, the multi-user option isn't available on Android smartphones, which Hamilton sees as more personal devices. That said, Microsoft's innovative Kid's Corner feature in Windows Phone 8 shows there's scope for sharing on smartphones too.It's clear that Google is ramping up the pace of evolution for Android, in response to both usage data and the capabilities of the devices. While that process continues, the company will be hoping more developers supersize their Android tablet ambitions accordingly.
John Browett, who was until Sunday night the Brit in charge of Apple's giant retail chain, can at least afford a good seat on his flight back across the Atlantic: the £36m golden hello that he received on joining six months ago should see to that. But for him and for Scott Forstall, who had been there – and at NeXT, the company Apple bought in 1996 to bring not just new software but also Steve Jobs – their departure looks like nothing less than a humiliation.Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, is taking over the retail stores; Jonathan Ive, the quiet Englishman who has been at the company longer than any of the other senior executives, is now in charge of hardware design and the "human interface" of the software. If you like Ive's phone, tablet and computer designs – and a lot of people seem to – you might like what he will do to the software too. It can't be worse than having Forstall's pretend "shredder" or "bookstand" cluttering up your screen.Forstall's corporate death warrant was issued in September when he refused to give his signature to theabject apology over Apple's Mapsjust days after the launch of its new iPhone software, according to multiple news sources. Instead, the apology bore Cook's name – showing that he is at least certain where the buck stops. Forstall, it is said, had long been a source of friction within a company that tries to avoid internal politics by operating in small teams; some reports even say that Ive would not sit in meetings with him.Browett, meanwhile, failed to expand the stores as quickly as desired (30 stores in two quarters – bringing the total to 393 in 14 countries – is not enough, apparently). He also tried, according to reports, to make staff drive profits, something that is anathema to the stores' aim. They aren't designed as a profit centre (though theygenerated$1.1bn profit on $4.2bn sales in the most recent quarter). They are intended to spread the Apple brand.Apple's financial resultssuggest it is falling victim to the law of large numbers: it can't keep growing at the same speed. Yet the onslaught of Google's Android mobile software and Microsoft's PC means it can't afford to slow down either.Cook seems to have brought Monday's announcement forward to catch the markets' close due to Superstorm Sandy. Stock pickers have been quick to mark Apple down, though market commentator Jim Cramerremarked on Twitterthat "the negativity on [Apple] is so great now that if Cook had promoted those two guys the stock would be hit, too".Cook has been such a cipher that some are surprised he could act so brutally. But he is a razor-sharp operator. Soon after joining Apple in 1998 he was in a meeting trying to get its dreadful supply chain in shape. "This is really bad. Someone should be in China driving this," he said. Thirty minutes later Cook looked up at the executive in charge of that area and said: "Why are you still here?"Cook's unrivalled skill in building a supply chain capable of shipping millions of phones and tablets worldwide within weeks of an announcement has made Apple what it is. But it is his people skills that show what the company will become. The firings will shock his employees but one thing Cook will not stand for is complacency. Everyone is certain of that now.
For years, Electronic Arts' Need For Speed franchise reminded one of the musical output of Simon Cowell: utterly lacking in merit and derided by critics, yet incredibly popular as a result of assiduously inescapable marketing.Then EA purchased Guildford-based developer Criterion, developer of the much-loved Burnout games, which turned its irresistible talents to 2010's Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit, which finally brought some genuine classiness to proceedings, with the result that Hot Pursuit is still played today.Criterion's second bite of the Need For Speed cherry takes the name and vague format from 2005's Most Wanted but, as any gamer would hope, has more in common with Burnout. So to describe it as much-anticipated would be to understate.Everything in Most Wanted is geared towards encouraging you to explore Fairhaven, which is fine, since it looks drop-dead gorgeous – even the grotty bits.Luckily, Criterion has honed the art of making arcade-racers to such a rarefied level over the years that Most Wanted justifies the hype with almost contemptuous ease. It takes place in one of Criterion's famed American cities, Fairhaven, which is bigger and richer than any of its previous ones, with jumps galore, elevated freeway sections, docks that are basically sandboxes for hooligans and so on.Your overarching mission is to join the ranks of the 10 most-wanted street-racers in Fairhaven, then work your way up to being a four-wheeled public enemy number one. This is achieved by amassing speed points by winning races, achieving challenges and driving like a nutcase – pulling off drifts, slipstreaming, escaping the cops' attentions, smashing billboards, passing speed-cameras at unfeasibly high speeds, to name but a few.Unusually, the game's array of incredibly desirable machinery, old and new, is unlocked from the moment you start the game, but there's a twist: you have to find it. Cars you can acquire are located at "Jacking Points" throughout Fairhaven, and when you come across them, you can simply jump into them.Each car has its own set of races, and if you win them or come second, you don't just get speed points, but car upgrades.Each car has its own set of races, and if you win them or come second, you don't just get speed points, but car upgrades like nitrous (always the prize for winning the easiest race on offer), off-road and racing tyres, lightweight and strengthened bodies, aero kits and much more. You can swap in upgrades according to the type of race.To race, you select one from a menu and the mini-map displays your route to its start – everything in Most Wanted is geared towards encouraging you to explore Fairhaven, which is fine, since it looks drop-dead gorgeous. It's grimy in places, picturesque in others, and will have you marvelling at how developers have got to grips with milking every ounce of graphics-processing power at this late stage of the console cycle.Stock races are point-to-point affairs with checkpoints delineated by white poles (the circuit-defining chevrons from Burnout are mostly absent). There are ambush races, in which you must escape from the cops as quickly as possible and circuit races that take place both on and off-road. Speed runs pit you against yourself, forcing you to achieve an average-speed target over each course (so you must avoid crashing or being taken down by the cops).Burnout's ability to perform take-downs (or be taken down yourself) is present and correct, and crashes are shown in spectacular glory, although unlike Burnout, you aren't rewarded for crashing spectacularly. Car handling gives you loads of feel, and there is a sense of realism in the handling, yet you would still describe it as arcade-style: braking into corners without lifting the throttle triggers massive (and unrealistic) drifts.The best races, though, are those in which you take on the Most Wanted drivers. They're satisfyingly long, and you're up against skilled drivers in very exotic machinery. And the police are on your case from the start, setting up roadblocks, calling in battering-ram SUVs and dropping tyre-shredders (luckily, you can drive through garages, instantly fixing your car and changing its colour).Say hello to Fairhaven’s traffic police, the most cowboyish, persistent bunch you're ever likely to come across in a racing game.Fairhaven's traffic police are the most persistent, not to mention cowboyish, on Earth, and they will gang up on you for the slightest driving-law violation, even if you're just indulging in some open-world cruising.Most Wanted is also gloriously meaty. It boasts an even more clever version of Autolog, the system which sets you challenges according to what your online friends have been doing (and more random ones even if you have no online friends).The multiplayer is great: setting up races against friends is a breeze, and it's incredibly easy to jump into sets of races with and against strangers: the game shepherds you to meeting points and has you doing imaginative things like surpassing a collective distance-target for jumps off the roof of a building.Criterion has done it again, setting a new standard for arcade-style racing games which won't be surpassed until the next generation of consoles has been on sale for a while. It actually leaves one feeling a bit sorry for Forza Horizon, which is a very good game, and infinitely superior to its predecessors. But Need For Speed: Most Wanted is, by whatever criteria you may see fit to apply, a great game.• Need For Speed: Most Wanted was reviewed on the Xbox 360
If you are not a games industry insider or a very committed player you may have missed a rather damaging controversy last week. It started when journalists attending this month's Games Media Awards were given the chance to win a PS3 by tweeting about a certain game and including its hashtag in their message. I didn't do it because I felt it was tantamount amount to a sponsored tweet, a form of advertising that the Guardian would not permit, but the fact that some attendeesdidenter the competition angered a lot of industry watchers.Shortly afterwards, the TV comedian and Eurogamer columnist Robert Florence wrotea damning articlecalling into question the increasingly close relationship between games journalists and games publishers. Later, certain elements of this scathing diatribe were removed due to complaints made by a writer criticised in the text, and Florence announced that he would no longer be contributing to the site. A fireball of invective and criticism then consumed industry Twitter communications for the next three days. Veteran games writer Stuart Campbell has provided a lengthy timeline of the controversyhere, and Robert Florence has written a response to the ensuing Twitter storm onthe personal site of John Walker, the editor of PC gaming site, Rock Paper Shotgun.It has, in short, been a difficult and depressing week for games journalism. Accusations and insults have been chucked around and the impartiality of games news sources, which rely heavily on working relationships with publishers, has been brought into question. It seems there are a lot of gamers who believe that games writers are little better than PR shills, trading favourable features and reviews for exclusive access to new titles or juicy freebies.Certainly, as in all forms of entertainment writing, there is close and regular interaction between the journalists and the PR departments of the major content providers. Access to preview and review material is now tightly controlled in this industry. This is partly because the threat of software piracy is ever present and terrifying to companies that have spent millions of dollars and countless working hours to produce Triple A titles. But it's also because publishers want to engineer an environment in which their products are viewed and discussed favourably. Getting access to new games now involves a relationship between journalist and producer, an understanding that there are two motives being uneasily aligned. We must now consider this properly.The situation is far from perfect, it involves compromise, and yet somehow it is the way entertainment writing works — especially in the digital era. Some might also draw a distinction here between entertainment writing and news journalism. Very few games writers indulge in the popularly accepted definition of "journalism" — an investigative procedure in which the aim is exposure. As William Randolph Hearst famously wrote, "news is something somebody doesn't want printed; all else is advertising".There is truth in that, of course. But it is also true that entertainment writing is about providing people with the information they want on things they love – like games, movies and music. The best entertainment writers do more than that – they analyse and interpret the industry; they provide context and draw interesting conclusions; they add depth and soul to the experience of learning about new things. Standards of quality must be the same.However, writing about games can be fraught with difficulties and ambiguities. The increasing cost of producing games has made publishers more guarded and controlling. At the same time, the rise of blogging culture has created a scene in which games journalism and fan content co-exist and combine. There are major debates going on about what journalism should mean in the digital era – there are arguments that it is mutating into aggregation. Alan Rusbridger's concept of open journalism suggests that some stories are best explored in partnership with bloggers and other participants outside of mainstream journalism. New frameworks have to be established in this complex arena; we also need to set clear standards if we work in partnership with bloggers too.I have been a games writer for 18 years, and I have seen many changes in the industry. Today, the job I do involves a lot of communication with the PR departments of major publishers — so ultimately it is up to myself to consider the boundaries within the context of the Guardian's overall code.I have thought a lot about my role in the last week while watching this controversy unfold and it has made me ask serious questions. From a personal and professional standpoint, I put the reader first in everything I write or commission – this is sacrosanct. Games writing might not be as "important" as other areas of the news media, but it must be carried out with integrity. I also believe that most PR professionals are helpful individuals, playing and promoting games they adore.However, during a period in which the credibility and impartiality of games writers is being questioned, it's worth reiterating or spelling out how games are covered on this site, and how I wish to increase transparency.ALL articles resulting from hosted press trips and events will be flagged as such.This practice is common throughout the Guardian and it forms part of the newspaper's code of conduct. Press trips are a very useful element of games writing and they can result in fantastic and interesting articles — they allow unique access to the people who develop the content. But it is important for readers to know when something they are reading is the direct result of a trip or event funded by a publisher.I will no longer commission reviews based on publisher-organised events.Often major publishers, rightfully fearful of their game code slipping into the wrong hands and being pirated before release, will hold special review events. This is really specific to the games industry, at least to the best of my knowledge. Journalists are invited to attend and can play forthcoming titles, usually for a couple of days, without distraction. They're convenient, well-managed and well-intentioned, but they also limit the reviewer's time with the game and can be perceived by some as a questionable form of collaboration between publisher and critic. Non-attendance at such events will mean that we sometimes provide our reviews later than other sources. I think it's worth it.The last week has been depressing and damaging, but it should not end with games writers closing ranks and denying that there are ambiguities and dilemmas that must be addressed. The best outcome would be for all of us, including myself, to rethink how we engage with and report on this magnificent and powerful medium.UPDATESince I wrote the above article, the situation has moved on. Here are some links to further articles on this matter:Eurogamer:Tom Bramwell, the site's editor, writes with real honesty and bravery about the Robert Florence situation.Rock Paper Shotgun: An official response from the PC gaming blog, written by its editor, John Walker.VG247:The video game new site's editor Patrick Garratt has provided his own slant on the controversy, ending with a new set of editorial rules.
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoski,Guardian technology editorCharles Arthurdiscusses Microsoft's release of Windows 8 and the storm-delayed Google launch of Android updates and the next generation of Nexus devices.Aleks talks toAlec Ross, senior adviser for innovation for US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Alec discusses the role of the US in forming and maintaining the internet and why the web is key to democracy.Ahead of the US elections, Aleks and Charles talk to digital strategistKevin Andersonabout the role of technology and digital in the presidential campaign.
Amid all the glitz of the launches last week of the Surface tablet and Windows 8 operating system, Microsoft also quietly – and ahead of schedule – released to manufacturing the latest versions of three of its biggest enterprise brands: Sharepoint, Exchange and Office.The public preview of Office has been around for a whileand you can still download and use itfor two months after the full version goes on sale, which is vaguely promised for the first quarter of next year.This new version of Office moves forward in two big ways: visually, and with its links to the cloud.It looks very different indeed; gone are the bubblegum icons and candy colours of yesteryear, and in their place is a flat, sleek look. It takes a bit of getting used to.And the options for personalising the look are minimal. The accent colour is fixed for each app; you can choose from a range of frankly pointless grey-squiggle themes, and you can choose white, light grey or dark grey surrounds – and that's it.The visual style brings Office in line with the look of Windows 8, which is also very flat – no more Aero glass or 3D effects.Crucially, it also optimises the suite for touch use – you can flip between a desktop mode and a touch mode, with the latter adding more space between icons in the ribbon (yes, the much-derided ribbon is in this version too, but you can hide it) to make it more fat-finger-friendly.The cloud stuff is right at the front of everything in this new version of Office – the default Save location is Skydrive, not My Documents.Sign in with your Hotmail, Windows Live, Technet or any other Microsoft ID and your Skydrive will be accessible on all your devices – Windows Phone, iOS and Android.If you're working at a computer that doesn't have Office on it,your Skydrive documents will open for editing in Office Web Apps(on a Mac, PC or Windows phone – Android and iOS users will have to make do with just reading them for now).You will be able to buy standalone versions of Office 2013, butthe pricing options for Office 365 are designed to be attractive. And there are benefits to going for Office 365, the cloud version: for $99 a year (no UK price yet, and straight $-£ conversion isn't an indicator of UK pricing), home users can use it on five machines (there will be a Mac version too) while enterprise users can choose from packages that include hosted Exchange.An in-depth dig around all the new features is beyond the scope of Technophile, but here are some highlights: Apps!Office has caught the apps bugand third-party developers are already crafting widgets to add functionality. Most of the Outlook apps require Exchange 2013, which may have gone RTM, but which won't be seen in the wild, never mind your office, for some time, so don't get too excited about those just yet.In Powerpoint, presenter view is vastly improved. You can see the next animation/next slide, your timings and any notes.Word can finally handle PDFs natively; you can open a PDF file as a Word document, where it retains all its PDF cleverness but becomes editable. The dialog box as you open it warns it could take some time, but on my desktop (a fast machine home-built last year) the process was pretty much instant.In Excel, you can pull in data from a website via the in-app brower: useful if you want to play withthe Guardian's datastore. Excel will also suggest pivot tables for you, and flash-fill fields for you.Outlook now pulls all your duplicate contacts together in one unified contact card in the People view (though I've found that a bit flaky aboutlinking contacts to Facebook via the Office social connector). You can also peek at your calendar while in another view, and get weather updates in the calendar view (no, I have no idea why that's been added, either).One for admins to note is that Outlook can now connect to mail servers via ActiveSync, and in fact Exchange 2013 ditches MAPI altogether in favour of ActiveSync. Admins will need to keep an eye on the number of connections users are making via both their own and work devices in a BYOD environment.In most apps you can do screengrabs from within Office – no need to go via your imaging application – and insert them into the document. You can also search for images and video online and edit/play those in the document.Not everyone will like the determined nudge towards the cloud, and given a lot of the negative feedback for the new look for Windows 8, not everyone is going to like the visual overhaul, either.However, for the home user, the pricing is much more attractive, especially if you go for the Office 365 subscription model. How much of the new functionality you actually use remains to be seen, and whether you think it's worth upgrading for.If there's a touchscreen device in your future, it's certainly worth considering (and a version of Office 2013 comes with the RT Surface tablets anyway).Pros:interface much better for touch, tight integration with the cloud, attractive pricing, new featuresCons:Cloud approach not to everyone's taste, third-party apps (so far) of dubious usefulness.Standalone versions:$139.99 (Home &amp; Student), $219.99 (Home &amp; Business), $399.99 (Professional). No pricing for other regions yet.
Apple was in crisis on Monday as it revealed that the architect of its iPhone software, Scott Forstall, once tipped as a future chief executive, is leaving the company next year. John Browett, the retail chief poached from British chain Dixons only six months ago, is also going.For those who have watched Forstall's ascent – pushed out, without doubt, by a ruthless Tim Cook as sure as if he were a misfiring supplier – it means one thing: no more "skeuomorphism".Forstall had become infamous as the person within Apple who drove the use of computer interfaces that appeared like real-life objects, so that the iPad's calendar had a faux-leather appearance and deleting a ticket in the new Passbook app invoked a virtual shredder – which Forstall showed off with clear glee when launching the iPhone 5 in September. Now, it's his pass that's in the shredder.Instead, Jonathan Ive (who has been at Apple longer even than Cook having joined in 1998) will be in charge of the "human interface" elements of the business – the first time that he has been put in charge of software as well as hardware.There had been rumours that Forstall was in bad favour after he did not appear on stage at the launch of the iPad mini in San Jose last week – although he was present at the location on the day and was seen outside a nearby hotel after the launch.The departure of retail chief John Browett will come as a relief to many in Apple's stores: staff disliked the measures he tried to put in place (until reversed by Cook) of making them profit-driven – something that they disliked in a culture which for 10 years had thrived on simply offering good customer service.Cook had to step in earlier this year as dissatisfaction among retail staff grew over Browett's initiatives – which went against the practices that had been instilled since the first store was opened in 2001. The stores will be managed directly by Cook while the search for a new retail chief goes on.Carolina Milanesi, smartphones analyst for Gartner, said: "I did question if Browett coming from Dixon was the right pick. Apple needs to learn how to deal with more customers in the stores but the need to retain the high level of care is something that a chain like Dixons does not do very well."Having Jonny [Ive] focus on human interface as well as design makes perfect sense to me. Design and user interaction need to be tightly integrated in order to deliver a richer experience. Bringing together the iPhone/iPad software, iOS and Mac OS makes perfect sense too, as devices like iPad, iPhones and Mac need to deliver similar experiences but not force users in behaviours that do not make sense."There are two ways to view Monday's events: either Apple is in a downward spiral,having disappointed Wall Street last weekfor the second quarter in a row when it announced revenues and profits that grew less than had been predicted, notably due to a slowdown in iPad sales. Or Cook has decided to lance the boil as internal politics and dissent reached a key pitch, and he is now bringing in a reliable team to focus on the future – beyond the iPhone and iPad.Forstall is thought to have been blamed for the maps fiasco that followed the launch of the iOS 6 software in September, where Apple's own product replaced Google's. Many customers complained at lack of accuracy in the data, forcing Cook to issue an apology and point users to other services from rivals including Nokia and Microsoft. Forstall was also responsible for the Siri "voice control" interface, which has had mixed success.Applesaid in a press releasethat the changes would "encourage even more collaboration between the company's world-class hardware, software and services teams". The lack of any thanks towards either Forstall or Browett suggests that Cook has acted ruthlessly as the company has seen slackening improvements.The company is notoriously secretive, yet discourages internal politics in favour of working in small teams who focus on solving problems collaboratively. Browett's brief tenure is not the shortest of an incoming Apple executive, but it is embarrassing for someone who had won what had looked like one of the biggest jobs in retail.The changes will see a four-way split in responsibilities. Eddy Cue, who for years built up Apple's presence in the music business as its iPod business grew, and who has been in charge of the iCloud services, will now take over responsibility for the Maps and Siri services.He was praised by Cook for an "excellent track record" in "building and strengthening Apple's online services to meet and exceed the high expectations of our customers", possibly hinting that Forstall failed in the latter regard.The desktop, smartphone and tablet software will be united under Craig Federighi – possibly hinting at longer-term integration between the two. And Bob Mansfield, who had been expected to retire earlier this year but was brought back by Cook, will lead a new "Technologies" group combining the teams working on wireless technologies with aims at high-level innovation.Forstall was key in the development of the original iPhone software, leading a team which raced against another in-house group to try to produce the prototype code. Forstall's team was trying to "shrink" the code used on the Macintosh desktop system; the rival team was trying to "scale up" that used on the iPod, then the best-selling Apple product. Forstall's team won and he was seen as a potential heir to Steve Jobs – although others inside the company accused him of playing company politics.He also worked on the original Mac OS X desktop software, having worked at the NeXT company that Steve Jobs created and which was bought by Apple in 1997 letting Jobs back in, where he led a revival of the business from near-bankruptcy.Cook has shown a ruthless side in firing Browett. It is a move that reflects the way that senior managers at Apple are told they bear ultimate responsibility for what happens in their division.
Okay, we've done Monday now, let's have a go at this Tuesday malarkey.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple Announces Changes to Increase Collaboration Across Hardware, Software &amp; Services &gt;&gt; AppleScott Forstall goes into the skeumorphic shredder. So does retail head John Browett after six months.Why Google's new Nexus 4 doesn't have LTE &gt;&gt; Action At A DistanceRichard Gaywood takes MG Siegler to task over the latter's criticism of the lack of LTE in the new Nexus 4 phone, which Siegler says is capitulation to carriers:Apple has kowtowed to AT&amp;T numerous times: overFaux-G, over Facetime-over-cellular, over tethering charges. Apple isn't invulnerable to commercial pressures, nor does it have an unblemished record of putting its users interests before its own (or those of its partners).Is Siegler too much of a bigshot now to engage his brain before writing a post, or something? I'm sure he used to be better than this lazy, knee-jerk, only-Apple-can-do-right stuff.Is OpenStreetMapGB useful? Damn right it is! &gt;&gt; James Rutter's BloggageMy reason for excitement is that I'm now serving OpenStreetMapGB data  (rendered to epsg 27700) out to staff through our intranet mapping platform....and liking it they are too! I said in my last post that OSM data is complimentary to OS data, not a replacement for it and three cases at Surrey Heath are proving this. Our workflow internally now involves digitising new developments into OpenStreetMap, including the roads, building outlines, land parcels and house numbers, as we're doing the street naming work. Using a MapProxy based web service provided by Astun Technology (which caches OSMGB tiles provided by the project at Nottingham) we've been able to plug all this new mapping data back into our intranet mapping system for users consumption along with all our other usual internal vector data. So why is this useful?Great to see councils benefiting from Ordnance Survey's free datasets. (Thanks @stevenfeldman on Twitter for the link.)Google Now: behind the predictive future of search &gt;&gt; The VergeYou may not be familiar with Google Now, primarily because it's only available on the sliver of Android devices running Jelly Bean (and up) -- a situation that sadly won't change with the latest version. It's essentially an app that combines two important functions: voice search and "cards" that bubble up relevant information on a contextual basis.Actually, Google Now technically only refers to the ambient information part of the equation, a branding kerfuffle that distinguishes it from Apple's Siri product yet still causes confusion. Those cards might contain local restaurants, the traffic on your commute home, or when your flight is about to take off. They appear automatically as Google tries to guess the information you'll need at any given moment.While it seems like a relatively simple service, it's only really possible because of the massive amount of computational power Google can leverage alongside the massive amount of data Google knows about you thanks to your searches.Which is the tradeoff. It's a fascinating project.Ui Parade &gt;&gt; User Interface Design InspirationUI designer? You'll want this. Even if you aren't, it's a beautiful set of designs to use. (Are any copyrighted? We don't know.) (Thanks @margotlily on Twitter for the link.)iOS is showing its age &gt;&gt; getwired.comWes Miller:iOS should have an option, on by default to update in the background. More importantly, in an ecosystem where too many app authors do the bare minimum in terms of security, apps should have that same option.The original iPhone succeeded not because of apps. No, it succeeded because it was a better, more usable phone than almost anything else on the market. It just worked. It had voicemails we could see before listening, contacts we could easily edit on the phone, and a Web browser that was better than any mobile browser we'd ever seen before.But the OS is showing its age. Little nuances like the somewhat functional search screen, Favorites in Contacts, and VIPs in Mail show that iOS is under structural pressure to deal with the volume of data it tries to display in a viable way. Notifications and the Settings app seem fragmented and are starting to become as disorganized as the Windows Control Panel (that's bad!). Photo Stream sharing is a joke. It's unusable. The edges are showing.Presidential Election 2012 FAQ &gt;&gt; Peter NorvigGoogle's director of research Peter Norvig (writing personally) takes you through a number of the issues - from whether to believe the polls, to what the candidates say, to the economy, to taxes, to whether it's rational to vote. One point worth noting is on electoral fraud - made out by some to be a big problem. Trouble is the data don't agree:Of course, where there are 86 convictions (14 per year), there may be many more uncaught crimes. For the sake of argument, let's say that for each conviction there are 100 cases of fraud that go undetected. If that were the case, fraud would amount to about 0.003% of the vote, which would not be enough to affect even the close 2000 presidential election. Fox News looked into the problem and concluded "One doesn't have to look far to find instances of fraudulent ballots cast in actual elections." But readers of that article have commented that Fox did have to look pretty far: all the way back to 1984, when a study found "thousands" of fraudulent votes between 1968 and 1982 in state races. Again, this comes out to somewhere in the range of 0.001% of votes. While every fraudulent vote is a felony that should be taken seriously, there is no way this level of activity could affect a national race.Having trouble finding the right words? &gt;&gt; Trollem IpsumHaha.Nokia's price for exclusivity &gt;&gt; asymcoRemember the $1bn Nokia has received from Microsoft for Windows Phone, after killing Symbian?The foregone revenues from Symbian (assuming they had been able to maintain the decline to the level of 150m units that they had originally forecast) would be about $9bn. This means that had Nokia not knifed Symbian and had sold the shortfall units at an average price of $200 they would have received an additional $9bn in sales. Furthermore, assuming a margin of 33% for those units, Nokia received from Microsoft one third from of what she gave up for exclusivity.In other words, the net cost of the Microsoft exclusive relationship is at least $2bn in operating profit.This turns out to be the difference between being profitable and being distressed.Utterly stunning. Nokia has in fact only sold 96m Symbian phones since announcing their end.Windows 8 password security &gt;&gt; Security NirvanaWindows 8 password security is OK - 16 characters, certain characters disallowed - but there's also this on picture passwords:Now if you can re-focus your eyes over to the small text on the left side there, you'll see "Switch to password". As far as I've searched, I have found no way to actually disable the use of a password, so logging in with a password will always be possible. To me that means picture password is more of a usability feature rather than a security feature since it can be so easily circumvented.I think somebody with way too much time available-like researchers at universities- should look into what pictures people are choosing for  their picture password, and then ask for patterns used. I wouldn't be surprised if there are certain types of pictures as well as patterns appearing, and with different classes of pictures (people, nature, objects) we'll see associated patterns to go with each class.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
