What new challenges does the internet give to designers?One of the biggest problems with internet sites today is that they don't help the user. Websites as a whole are geared towards people who are willing to work at a slow pace and wait for pages to load. A few years ago that was a technology issue whereas now it's more of a design issue.Could you explain the Noodlebox part of the Amaze website?Noodlebox was me setting myself an agenda to look at the technology from an absolutely empty space and then see what I can do with it. The purpose of the project was not the little rooms themselves, rather the way all the rooms are strung together in a truly immersive environment. One other feature is that the loading screens, while something's being done with the network, always have something random moving around them - so you have a much more televisual feel.How would you say the net has changed since you started using it?Not enough. The technology has changed beyond all doubt and the bandwidth has changed - though not that much. But there are accepted web "standards" with regard to design, such as frames and spinning-buttons etc, where there's no real technical reason to keep doing those things. There was a period in about 94/95 when people were saying that the future would be plug-ins. Now, if you look at the penetration of these things, it's actually going down as the average new user is using an "out of the box" installation.How do you see the net evolving?I'm very dubious of Wap. Why would I want to use my mobile phone as an information network when I'd much rather just phone someone up and ask them? With regard to the future of internet design, I think there's a real need to look at interface and navigation. A much more interesting role for the interface is for it to look at what I'm actually trying to achieve as one whole process.Any favourite websites?I believe there are very few websites worth using. I'm sure there are a lot of people like myself who don't want to look at boring screens of information or spend all day looking round for something. At the moment web-pages are aimed at someone who's willing to surf around. What happens if someone doesn't want to learn the interface of a site? What if they just want to get something done? Saying that, for industry stuff I likeNinfoManiaandSabre Magazine. Other good sites areColors Magazineas it's not just an online copy of the magazine.Creation Recordshas elegant design and branding. For seamless integration of the branding between site and product there's theWipeOut3. For fun/wacky sites there'sKid Koala sound toyandNetBabyworld.&#149; See Noodlebox at:www.amaze.com/noodlebox
Do your web pages talk? It sounds like a line from a Monty Python sketch. But it could soon become a serious question which top e-commerce directors will increasingly have to answer.A small London-based company called Tangozebra (formerly Insigma Technologies) is fast-emerging as one of the leading architects of so-called web voiceovers. Last November the company picked up a prestigious British Computer Society award for its innovative web software,   successfully fending off competition from IT mega-giants such as IBM, ICL and BT.Tangozebra's patented software, N-XEC, is to go public in the next couple of months, and already it's generating a lot of noise in an industry that is desperate to prove it can meet high customer service expectations.Written in Java and designed to deal with limited bandwidth, N-XEC can be programmed to introduce images and sound to web pages at specified times. No plug-ins or streaming are involved because the audio is   played directly from the cache on your computer. N-XEC also lets web pages talk to surfers when they are off-line.Tangozebra (the name comes from an old movie) is in discussions with banks, online retailers and a host of major dot.coms who have had private previews. Web voiceovers have the potential, it is said, to eradicate many fears of e-customers."When the user comes to an initial shopping form, a voice will start invisibly behind the page," explains Tangozebra's co-founder and director, James Booth. "It might simply say 'please enter your name' or 'it's alright to buy online'. You can make the pages say what you want them to say."If you're a mainstream high street store and you know there is a good chance of getting online orders from mainland Europe, you can add a flag icon; if you click on it, you could get a reassuring guiding voice in German or Italian talking over the form."If the end user forgets, for example to put their email address in, we can kick off a voice file at the point they click submit. You might even have a celebrity voice in there."But Booth thinks the voice option should be optional. The forms Tangozebra is currently working on let people switch a voiceover on or off.It potentially gives web site owners more control over the   activities of surfers. If it can be applied to e-commerce sites successfully then voiceovers could prevent people from moving at random around sites. Instead they will be led by carefully-synchronized online voice prompts.Tangozebra has already carried out some work for the NHS, HMV, Waterstones and several pop stars including George Michael. When it goes formally into the marketplace, it plans to offer the new media industry generic talking web forms that e-commerce companies can bolt onto existing services.Dot.coms will be offered a package of promotional services licensed to run using the new technology. For example, a visitor to a site could be told by a voice to stay where they are for the next three minutes to find out how to win a flight to New York. Banner ads using N-XEC technology have been successfully piloted on Excite. They deliver synchronized advertising images and audio content to surfers. Tangozebra is planning to develop them with key online players such as QXL and Freeserve.Fusing sound with web pages for the benefit of e-commerce is potentially an extremely lucrative market. But Tangozebra is not the only company working in this area. UK-based technology company, Vocalis has introduced services using voice-recognition software which lets people hear the content of web pages over the phone. SpeecHTML converts hyperlinks on web pages into verbal options - just as you are presented with options when you phone up your ISP or your   local cinema. The Royal National Institute for the Blind and financial businesses are buying into this service to improve accessibility to their own internet-based operations.Vocalis also offers SpeechMail so you can phone up and have your email messages read out to you. If you like, you can then reply over the phone and your message is sent as a WAV audio file to the recipient. The voices do not sound 100% natural at the moment but Vocalis hopes to make improvements soon. Some ISPs are already offering this service to their subscribers for the cost of a standard national rate phone call.Poor customer service is a charge often levelled at dot.coms. Many cannot afford expensive call centres so they rely upon email responses instead. While talking web pages might make the lives of technical directors even more complicated, they could help to simplify e-commerce and reassure online shoppers whose first instinct is to pick up the phone rather than boot up a lap top.These new advances underline how the new media industry is working overtime to try to make the net more accessible. Just as silent movies were eventually overtaken by talkies, it looks as if silent web pages could soon become a thing of the past.
Palm dominates the market for palmtop computers, but the failure of Palm-sized PCs running Microsoft's Windows CE operating system does not mean the battle is over. On April 19, Microsoft will return to the fray with a new system, the Windows Powered Pocket PC, and new hardware from partners such as Compaq, Casio and Hewlett-Packard.This is partly the result of some creative renaming. The new software is really Windows CE version 3.0, and that's how it identifies itself. However, it is also the result of some creative reworking. No screen pixel from the original version has been left unchanged. The Pocket PC has a much cleaner and simpler interface, which makes it much easier to use.Out of the box, the Pocket PC also offers far more power than Palm's machines. The Palm was designed as a personal information   manager (PIM), whereas the Pocket PC is a multifunction, multimedia computer. It includes powerful email and web browsing programs, ClearType electronic book software, an MP3/Windows Media music player, a voice recorder and other facilities, including games.Like the Handspring version of the Palm computer, Pocket PC handhelds will take plug-in cards that can include things like modems, network connections and barcode scanners; it could be used for Game Boy-style auto-run games. too. The Pocket PC slot is compatible with industry standard CompactFlash memory cards, and up to 340MB can be fitted into a handheld device.Rogers Weed, director of marketing for Microsoft's mobile device division in Seattle, says "the PIM is the 'killer app' but customers expect more of these devices. All the top Palm &#91;software&#93; downloads are built into   Pocket PC". While Windows CE offers things like Pocket Word and Excel, the Pocket PC software suite also includes Microsoft Money CE for tracking expenses and investments, Pocket Streets maps, and AvantGo software that provides "clipped" versions of web pages suitable for a small screen display. "The Pocket PC will define the state of the art in this category," says Weed.Windows CE machines have always offered more features and functions than rivals, but have not been as easy to learn or as simple to use. However, Pocket PC now has a completely different interface that is "flat" and has had all the fussy, 3-D effects removed. Even the position of the Start button has changed. The result is that the Pocket PC interface is now faster, more elegant, and much easier to use.Will it be enough?Chris Letocq, principal analyst at US research   company Dataquest and an expert in the mobile computing field, has reservations. He thinks there's a conflict between Microsoft's aim to design a business tool that fits into a corporate environment and its attempt to top Palm. "Palm's approach is to be the best organiser, and the Pocket PC's approach is to be the best subset of the PC, but you have to ask yourself if that's what people want," Letocq says.For Microsoft, Weeks says: "We're trying to bring the power of the PC to the pocket. When you add it all up, that's where the market is heading."People who use Microsoft's Outlook information manager on desktop PCs are desperately keen to have what Letocq calls "a roving version of Outlook", and Weeks says: "If you're an Outlook user, this is going to be the best device you can buy." Pocket PC's ActiveSync 3.1 software can synchronise automatically with a PC, without the user having to push a button.Letocq agrees that Pocket PC "is a step up - the ability to handle meeting requests, the ability to view attachments - but it doesn't match the architecture in Outlook. You can't synchronise to folders and subfolders, so moving your Outlook structure across is going to be very difficult."Letocq is also doubtful about the value of having a   fully-fledged browser in a palmtop computer."It does a yeoman job," he says, "but it's an eyesight test for most users."As always, buyers will decide the Pocket PC format's fate. Whether it will go down in history as one of the "technically superior" systems that users didn't choose remains to be seen.
Training kids to killThe subject of game-related violence returned last week. In the UK, Channel 4 showed a Dispatches documentary, which elicited a formal complaint from the European Leisure Software Publishers Association. Elspa called it "unfair, biased, and extremely irresponsible".In the US,  the ABC News 20/20 programme ran a piece about retired lieutenant colonel David Grossman, a former West Point psychology professor, who is complaining about what he calls "military-quality murder simulators" (seeabcnews.go.com/onair/2020) being sold to children. Grossman says the marines use the game Doom to desensitise recruits, though according to ABC, the marines say they don't: "They say they used a version of the software to teach eye/hand coordination and teamwork."The 20/20 programme was followed by aninteresting chat session. Grossman pointed out that the games industry rates some of its games as the equivalent of pornographic movies - not suitable for children - but still markets them through magazines read by children. He also pointed out that his book, Stop Teaching Our Kids To Kill, "covers television, movies and videogame violence. Video games are the least of the three, and the last of the three that we cover".No doubt Channel 4 will now make a documentary to show how television is responsible for making children violent. It could use the hundreds of pounds it will save by not making any more programmes that promote video games, eg Bits.Army gamesGame developer Novalogic has announced that its Delta Force 2 Special Forces game will be used to train recruits by the US Army. Novalogic Systems will work with the army's Training and Doctrine Command Analysis Centre (TRAC) in California to adapt the game to simulate its Land Warrior system, which aims to integrate weapons and modern electronics. Land Warrior includes a global positioning system (GPS) satellite receiver, a wearable computer and a helmet-mounted LCD screen.Skin searchesThe nominations are in for glitziest event of the year: The Simmys. Electronic Arts is sponsoring a competition for family albums featuring snapshots of everyday life in Maxis's little computer people game, The Sims. There are sections for comedy, romance, action/adventure, fantasy/sci-fi, horror/tragedy and mystery. There are, almost inevitably, Jedi, Trekker and Addams Family families among the finalistswww.thesims.com/us/events/contests/).   There's a growing market for "skins" that provide Sims players with new-look characters. Simz Online (http://simz.gamenation.com/) has a huge selection that includes Neo, Trinity and Morpheus from The Matrix, Xena, Darth Vader, several South Park characters and at least three attempts at Britney Spears.Seneca's Wicked Downloadsis also worth a visit for the horror section, which includes the Addams Family, Freddy Krueger, and Michael Jackson. For older if not more mature players, this site also offers Vampirella, Dr Frankensim's Wonder Woman, a blur removal patch (the game is censored) and some nude-skins replacements.
Not really ready for big leagueEuro League FootballPC &#163;29.99 Dinamic/Sold Out	 **It's a videogame of two halves, the football market. Real fans have to spend big bucks buying Eidos Interactive's Championship Manager for the cerebral part of the sport, and Konami's International Superstar Soccer Pro (latest version: Evolution) for the wrist-pumping arcade-style action.Unwisely, perhaps, Dinamic has decided to buck tradition by combining the two approaches in one game, thus satisfying everyone - or no one.Dinamic is a Spanish software house not well known in the UK, but the management part of Euro League Football bears a strong resemblance to the old Gremlin Graphics title, Premier Manager 99. Gremlin was taken over by Infogrames, a French software house, and it seems that Dinamic took over the game's development with Premier Manager 98/99.The stats are plentiful and reasonably up to date: for   example, Hoddle is managing Southampton, though Wilson is still managing Sheffield Wednesday in ELF-land.I didn't recognise the arcade part of the game - Dinamic's PC F&uacute;tbol 2000 is a possible source - and wasn't greatly impressed by it. You can get away with disgraceful tackles from behind but perfectly good tackles are penalised, while forwards are wrongly called offside or, if they break free, miss open goals... but it's just a realistic simulation of Premiership football.On the downside, the animations are stilted, the commentary (by Dominik Diamond) is tedious and the   "radar" (overhead) view doesn't show which player you are controlling: not very useful.But the real problem is that the whole enterprise is flawed. You can be a great manager but still lose games by being inept at the arcade action, or you can win these matches easily while more or less ignoring much of the management stuff.Still, my son, aged 14, described it as "blatantly an immense game" (very, very enjoyable). At the time he was trying for a hat trick of goals scored by his keeper dribbling the length of the pitch and walking the ball into the net.  (JS)Lara's looks are a revelationTomb Raider 4:   The Last RevelationSega Dreamcast            £39.99  Core Design/Eidos   ***It has taken four years but Lara has finally come back to a Sega machine. While it's probably best forgotten that Tomb Raider first appeared on the Saturn, this Dreamcast release has no such graphical inferiority.   Although this is essentially the same game that recently appeared on the PlayStation, some fancy enhancements push this up to accelerated PC level.In fact, The Last Revelation is probably the best looking version so far.   The Dreamcast remains unstretched, but the visuals capture the Egyptian mood perfectly. The plot sees Lara returning to what she does best - raiding tombs in her usual physics-defying manner - but this time she stays in Egypt rather than globetrotting.  So, what is the Last Revelation? The chances are only a few will ever find out because this is a very tricky game. Patience of a saint?You may just have a chance.   Mere mortals will need to prepare for periods of intense frustration and annoyance, punctuated by some superb sequences, that mostly start you thinking 'If only....'  If only Lara would move in the direction you point. If only she jumped when you press "jump" rather than run those fatal final steps. If only the puzzles were less obscure.  Actually, the last wish is not too far off the mark. Unlike the aimless wandering of yore, Lara will usually find the answers nearby - a much-appreciated improvement.After all, you don't want to spend too long worrying about the puzzles when you've got that antiquated control system to fight.   So why bother? Well, the characterisation and storyline are of sufficient quality to encourage perseverance. Also, solving a stubborn puzzle or back-flipping over a chasm is undeniably good fun. This is the best version yet and will do for now, but a radical overhaul is needed before Lara returns again.  (GH)Teletubbies game   is toastPlay with the TeletubbiesSony PlayStation,            £29.99,   BBC Multimedia      *I had my doubts, but the new Teletubbies game sets new standards in weapon design, phantasmagoric level structure and billion-polygon gore, all run to a soundtrack of heavy-metal Richard Strauss. It rocks.   Oh, not really. Play with the Teletubbies is a staggeringly incompetent slab of electronic propaganda for two to four-year-old s. I suppose parents might find it useful as punishment, as it boasts many frustrating and repetitive activities for the recalcitrant toddler.Taking control of one of the drug-addled dayglo monsters you can walk across the jerkily -scrolling, pseudo-3D green fields and find a handbag, or a bouncy ball.   You can play with the flashing lights of the Superdome.   You can even chase a rabbit: in fact, the graphics are so appalling you can walk right through the rabbit, which may confuse some literal-minded children.   The marketing says the game is aimed at students as well as children, but even the most addled student has far higher standards.   The real question is: why con the kids into accepting this garbage when they could be enjoying the pleasures of Crash Bandicoot 3? (SP)
The world's first $1m share moved closer yesterday after internet fever gripped Tokyo's stock exchange. Shares inYahoo! Japan, the country's most popular internet portal, shot up by the daily limit to hit 101.4m yen ($960,000) yesterday - more than 50 times the 1997 float price.One unnamed director received a $20.5m boost to his pay after Yahoo! Japan said it would issue 38 new shares to him under a employee stock option scheme.A Yahoo! Japan spokesman added that warrants for about 400 more shares were still outstanding and could be exercised under the stock option   plan. Yahoo! Japan's shares closed at 62.3m yen yesterday, trading at a price to earnings ratio of more than 3,355. The astonishing rise is a result of the rarity of stock - there are only 4,200 on offer on the exchange.The rush for the shares was sparked by plans for a two for one split - with investors apparently willing to pay $300,000 for each new share in the company.The rise will bring another bonanza for Masayoshi Son, the world's second richest man, whose company owns 51% of Yahoo! Japan.The other major shareholder, with 34%, is the original search engine Yahoo!, which serves up more than 300m web pages a day.Japan has been slow to catch on to the internet - less than a fifth of the population surfs the web, in comparison with half of adults in the United States.However analysts point out that this means there is huge potential for growth for internet firms in the world's second largest economy.&#149; Shares in Lycos Europe on Frankfurt's hi-tech stock market failed to spark investors' interest on the first day of trading. Issued at &euro;24 a share, Lycos Europe closed the day at &euro;22.75 - a loss of some 5.5% for investors.Lycoshopes that the cash raised will allow it to build its brand and overtake Yahoo! as Europe's top web portal.
Freeserve, Britain's biggest internet service provider, wants its main shareholder Dixons to cut its stake from 80% to 20%, and it intends to dilute the store's holding by making share-based acquisitions.Nicholas Backhouse, Freeserve's chief financial officer, said yesterday that the "correct long term shareholding" for Dixons would be something like 20%.After a briefing at the SG Cowen global technology conference in Cannes, he said Freeserve was looking at a number of deals that could dilute the Dixons stake. Last week Freeserve announced its first all-share acquisition of Intracus for &#163;60m.Intracus is a community website where various groups get together to organise events.Mr Backhouse said Freeserve would prefer dilution of the Dixons shareholding to one of the other options, the sale of part of the Dixons holding to outsiders."Expect to see us doing a lot more deals like that &#91;Intracus&#93;. We will acquire all the things we need to acquire to significantly grow our market share and we will dilute them down."One route for Dixons to cut its Freeserve stake would be to offer shares in the ISP to its own shareholders. It sold 20% of Freeserve last July.However Mr Backhouse said this path would not see Dixons "make the most of the value" out of Freeserve. The surge in Freeserve's share recently - they hit a peak of 920p in March and closed at 545.5p yesterday - has finally given it the ability to use its stock to do deals.Mr Backhouse said Dixons had the right to sell 40% of its Freeserve shareholding from August and the remainder 12 months later.Freeserve has grown to be the largest internet service provider with about one third   of the 7.8m estimated internet users in Britain. Mr Backhouse said it was "perfectly realistic" that Freeserve could come to dominate 50% of the British internet users market, but refused to give a time frame for this target.The company is transforming itself from an ISP to a web portal similar to Yahoo! It is driving this strategy by seeking content deals and acquisitions.This week it announced it had collaborated with Bar clays, Britain's second biggest bank, to offer financial services online to small business.Freeserve last week reported a loss of &#163;2.3m in the quarter ending February 5, while advertising revenue increased and subscriptions grew 50%. It   is not expected to turn a profit until 2002.Total revenue in the quarter was &#163;5.1m, with 55% of that coming from e-commerce and advertising.It signed 126 advertisers in that period. The company has also counted on increased revenue from telephone tariffs but fierce competition has caused Freeserve to give up its share of those revenues from telephone calls by offering a flat monthly internet access fee which starts next month.This means it is faced with the battle of finding other ways of substituting that revenue which may come from the boom in online retailing in the next few years.Fletchers Research predicts that British online retailing business will grow from &euro;350m in 1999 to &euro;5.9bn in 2004.
Bass, the brewer and world's second largest hotel operator, yesterday predicted it would hit its $1bn (&#163;630m) annual target for internet room booking revenues within four years.Customers would benefit from cheaper beds as the owner of Holiday Inns, Inter-Continental and Crowne Plaza hotels, passed on some of the financial benefits from web-based booking, it claimed.Eric Pearson, vice-president for e-commerce at Bass, said the company with 2,800 hotels with 450,000 rooms was already taking $12m a month of hotel bookings over the net. This figure represents nearly 3% of the company's global revenue and it is growing every day."We predict that within four to five years we will be doing $1bn of business over the web," said Mr Pearson. This would amount to nearly 12% of revenues.Web bookings cut out travel agents' commissions and other transaction fees and are said to be able to reduce costs by up to 10%.Bass sells most of its rooms on the internet via its own websites but also throughLastminute.com, the internet travel agency.Last December Bass invested an estimated &#163;5m in Lastminute, which has just been floated on the London stock market amid some controversy over its share price gyrations.Bass has been using Lastminute to market "distressed   rooms" at cut-price levels and also market higher ticket packages with hotels linked to other services such as theatre tickets and car rental deals.Bass started selling via its own website in 1995 and now claims to have the most visited hotel websites in the world."We have 11m to 12m page hits a month from 1.9m visits. What we have is high volumes and high usability, " said Mr Pearson.Meanwhile the battle to takeover Bass's brewing interests is hotting up with diminutive J. Boag &amp; Son in Australia insisting it was in the running to buy the British business.This year Bass has bought Southern Pacific Hotels and bought up the 90% stake it did not own in Bristol Hotels &amp; Resorts of the US.But while its hotel interests have grown its commitment to brewing activities has looked increasingly in doubt.Yesterday a Bass spokesman insisted that no decision had been taken as to whether to keep and develop those interests, which include six British breweries said to be worth up to &#163;2bn.But Holland's Heineken has made public its interest in buying the Bass brewing empire, while yesterday Boag announced that it had hired Westdeutsche LB as its financial adviser for an offer.Despite its small size, Boag chairman and chief executive Philip Adkins said its success in the competitive Australian beer market qualified it to compete for Bass.Bass is nearly 100 times the value of Boag. Its chairman is a former US investment banker who has already tried but failed to buy New Zealand brewer Lion Nathan.The share price for Bass ended the session up a modest 2p at 750p.
Shares in Freeserve, Britain's leading internet service provider, received a much needed fillip yesterday after the company announced a joint venture with Barclays Bank to set up a portal for small businesses.The venture will be 60% owned byFreeserveand 40% by Barclays. It aims to provide online advice on everything from net name registration to employment issues. If successful, the portal may be floated separately.Freeserve shares have taken a bruising since rivals such asAltaVistaand NTL sought to increase market share by launching unmetered internet access.Faced with the loss of telephone call revenues from matching such offers, Freeserve is under increasing pressure to provide more revenue-earning content. The deal with Barclays improved   the Freeserve share price by 22.5p to 538.5p, still well below the 920p achieved at the beginning of the month. Barclays shares rose 17p to &#163;16.65.Freeserve and Barclays will each plough &#163;10m into the small business portal in the first year. Barclays claims to be Britain's largest internet bank with 100,000 of its 450,000 small business customers on line. Freeserve estimates it has 300,000 small business users.John Pluthero, chief executive of Freeserve, said: "Freeserve has a good reach among small businesses and with the Barclays brand we have a powerful combination."The joint venture will launch in May and will offer advertising and e-commerce. Other services will include advice on accounting, sales and marketing, payroll control, law and online access to account information for Barclays customers.&#149; Britain's biggest building society, Nationwide, will put 250 terminals in branches so that customers can try internet banking free of charge. They will allow customers to register, carry out transactions or just see a demonstration.Nationwide's online service, set up in 1997, offers mortgages, loans and credit cards. Customers can manage accounts, pay bills and set up standing orders.
Scoot.com, the online publishing and information group, aims to increase revenue from &#163;16m to &#163;1bn within five years - if its relaunch next month is successful.Robert Bonnier, chief executive, said yesterday the launch of Scoot.com2 on April 28 would deliver a platform that was more user friendly to consumers and businesses users.Scoot.com clients will be able to find a product or service using a an improved search system on its directory, ask for a quote for a service and make online reservations."We are very confident that within five years we will have 2m transactions a day across Europe and that we can make &#163;1.50 per transaction," Mr Bonnier said at the SG Cowen Global Technology Conference. "It looks very ambitious from where the company stands today."In 1999 the company lost &#163;20.6m. To meet Mr Bonnier's target sales need to grow by 129% annually for five years.Scoot.com has 350,000 users, mainly small to medium size businesses, in the UK, Netherlands and Belgium. Of these only 7,000 are paying clients, with an average transaction generating &#163;1 in revenue.Scoot.com's estimates of client numbers have been questioned. Mr Bonnier said: "We never get complaints from our investors or analysts. We've previously explained   that it was just somebody bad-mouthing the company. This is a very evolving business and we try to reflect the underlying business numbers as accurately as possible."Scoot.com has also had problems attracting advertisers to its directory service. The annual fee of &#163;700 was considered too high by some and that charge has been cut to &#163;200 a year plus a per-transaction levy.Mr Bonnier said the relaunch would attract more advertisers and he predicted the number of companies listing with Scoot.com in Britain would grow from 20,000 to 200,000 in the next three years.Scoot.com expects 80% of its revenues to come from requests for household, gardening and office services. Those areas currently account for 55% of sales.Mr Bonnier is also counting on the group's joint venture with Vivendi, announced earlier this year, to drive subscriber numbers. Vivendi owns 65% of the venture and will invest to help expand Scoot.com across Europe. It has an 11% stake in Scoot.com."We want to build a pan-European service within the next five years but it is a very rapidly changing landscape and it won't give us five years," Mr Bonnier said.Scoot.com is launching in France in September and has brought forward its launch in Germany and Italy to December.
Bids for the government's auction of third-generation mobile phone licences burst through the &#163;5bn mark yesterday, as competition intensified among the 13 contenders.The sale of the five licences could reach as much as &#163;10bn, as the four existing operators continue their aggressive bidding.One.Tel, backed by News Corp, offered &#163;1.3bn for Licence A andVodafonea similar sum for licence B.WorldCombid &#163;964m for C, while 3GUK, an Eircom subsidiary, offered &#163;965m for D and Orange bid &#163;1bn for E. The total cash offered now exceeds &#163;5.56bn.In Cannes yesterday, Michael Fallen, chief financial officer at Eircom, would not comment on the price the group was prepared to pay, saying only: "We have bid aggressively so far and we will bid sensibly on price."The bid fitted with the group's ambitions to expand in the UK and Ireland. He cited Eircom's combination of local market knowledge and international experience in mobile operations.Virgin, which brought together the SpectrumCo consortium, denied it had sold its 1% stake in the group. Virgin confirmed it has the option of going to 5% if it wins a licence. Other big shareholders include Tesco and Marconi.Useful links:&#149;www.spectrumauctions.gov.ukFor up to the minute information
Microsoft, the world's largest software company, is understood to have offered a significant concession in its landmark legal battle with the US government by opening up its Windows computer code.The move would allow rivals to develop products that can be used with Microsoft Windows, the software used on more than 90% of the world's personal computers, and managers hope it would be enough to head off legal attempts to break the company apart.The Seattle-based company would also "unbundle" its internet browser from Windows. This concession goes to the heart of the government's case, as it was Microsoft's insistence that its browser be sold together with Windows that provoked the authorities into launching the anti-monopoly action more than three years ago.Despite the moves, there were signs yesterday that an agreement between the two sides could be some way off. Sources close to the talks believe several of the 19 American states that brought the case alongside the US justice department remain to be convinced of an agreement that falls short of a break-up. Their unease about Microsoft's offer stems from the fact that a behavioural remedy - one forcing Microsoft to open up Windows, for example - is difficult to police.There is also little trust between the two sides, largely because of the failure of a previous agreement designed to stop allegedly anti-competitive behaviour in the mid-1990s. Professor Bill Kovacic of George Washington University law school said that leaks to US papers about Microsoft's position underlined the difficult relationship. "To be successful, negotiations of this type must be secret," he said. "The fact that there has been so much disclosure by insiders of what's going on is a bad sign."The company founded by Bill Gates has jealously guarded its source code in the past, maintaining that its frequent updates are good for the consumer and not an abuse of a monopoly position. Significantly, Microsoft's position paper, faxed to the government on Friday night, agreed that a settlement should apply to all current and future versions of Windows, according to a report in the Wall Street Journal.This would limit the company's ability to insist on bundling any new products with Windows and would therefore remove a key part of the government's argument. The company is also expected to agree to stop using its Windows licences as a way of punishing or rewarding computer manufacturers as part of any agreement. Legal experts believe Microsoft would have to agree to some kind of third-party audit of its behaviour as well as a set of penalties if it transgresses the settlement.Mr Gates, who gave up the day-to-day running of Microsoft earlier this year, has opposed opening up the company's source code in the past.
QXL.comyesterday underlined its determination to become the dominant on-line auctioneer in Europe by announcing the continent's largest internet takeover.The &#163;347m all-share deal to take over Scandinavian rival Bidlet AB is the fourth acquisition QXL has made since floating in October and follows successful bids for rivals in Norway, Denmark and Poland.Analysts believe QXL is trying to mimic the strategy of American companies such as Cisco which moved swiftly after floating to build dominant   market positions through acquisitions. Goldman Sachs analyst Phil Clark said: "Consolidation is going to leave only two or three big players in this sector and you would expect QXL to be one of them."However, QXL founder Tim Jackson is unlikely to take part in the minutiae of future deals after stepping down as a non-executive director to concentrate on his new venture capital role at Carlyle Internet Partners Europe and at a charitable foundation he is setting up. He will, however, remain as a special adviser to Mr Rose and QXL.com chairman Jonathan Bulkeley."Old founders never die they   just send emails from home," Mr Jackson joked yesterday.He said his resignation from the board was an indication of his faith in Mr Rose and his team's ability to develop the business.Most of Mr Jackson's time will be taking up by managing the $800m (&#163;500m) Chase internet investment fund. However, he is also becoming a trustee of a charitable foundation he has set up and is being registered by the Charity Commission.Around &#163;70m of Mr Jackson's &#163;265m shareholding in QXL is being put towards good causes."It is important that entre preneurs who have made a lot of money very quickly put money back into the community," Mr Jackson said.His move mirrors a trend among wealthy hi-tech entrepreneurs in the US. Bill Gates, Michael Dell, Jim Clark and Paul Allen have all established charitable foundations after making their fortunes.Chief executive Jim Rose said the Bidlet acquisition will be financed through the issue of 23.5m new shares at &#163;14.75 each and further deals were on the cards. Analysts would like to see QXL.com increase its presence in France and, in particular, in Germany.Ricardo.de, Germany's second largest auction site which yesterday paid $30m for Switzerland'sAuktion24.chand is valued in excess of &#163;1bn, is rumoured as a possible target.Mr Rose said: "We want to be a leader in the consolidation process and talk to a lot of players all the time."Ricardo.de would be a great fit and would not be beyond us but there are others too. We'll look at everything."Bidlet, which is Sweden's leading internet auction site and has services in Norway, Denmark and Finland, made a loss of &#163;3.8m on revenues of &#163;2.5m in the year to December last year.It operates in a region that has been one of the earliest adopters of wireless devices and Mr Rose said Bidlet management's experience of serving a particularly internet wise customer base would help QXL.com roll-out its multi-platform strategy across the rest of Europe.Following the deal, QXL will be active in 11 European countries and nine different languages.Bidlet chairman Peter Sederowsky is expected to take up the post of non-executive director vacated by Mr Jackson. QXL shares closed down 9% at &#163;13.32 after a 30% jump on Friday.
One of America's largest on-line retailers,Buy.com, yesterday launched an attempt to crack the British market by offering the cheapest prices anywhere for computers, software and accessories.The company, which has 2.3m customers in the US, plans more internet "superstores" later this year offering other product categories such as clothes, music and books.However, its UK launch coincided with the publication of two reports suggesting that internet shopping faces a rocky road ahead.Retail consultancy Verdict criticised e-retailers for spending too much on "glitzy" marketing at the expense of customer services.Verdict director Mike Godliman said: "A lot of the emphasis has been on marketing, websites and advertising. There's been loads of investment going into the glitzy end, rather than into the boring end - actually delivering the goods."Deloitte Consulting sounded another note of concern, warning that a lack of face-to-face contact could prove a real turn-off for consumers.Both consultancies cast doubt on optimistic projections claiming that the internet will mean a complete revolution in shopping habits.With backers including Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, Buy.com is one of the most significant entrants yet onto Britain's internet "high street".Buy.com's chief executive, Murray Hennessy, admitted there were worries in some quarters: "Last Christmas, so many e-commerce companies had so much demand that they had a lot of trouble fulfiling it."However, he insisted that Buy.com had sufficient means to provide a reliable service: "We've got significant resources behind us in the US and we've put a lot of time, effort and money into making sure we can deliver."Buy.com's US parent is the world's second largest e-commerce player, followingAmazon.com.The company is guaranteeing rock-bottom prices - if customers find a better deal elsewhere, Buy.com will refund the difference and pay an extra &#163;1 for the inconvenience.In the UK, its in-house operations consist of just a head office in London, with a few dozen staff. Calls and emails are taken by an 80-strong call centre in Exeter which is run   by an outside company, Client Logic. Goods are held in warehouses run by the distribution specialist Ingram Micro and delivery has been outsourced to the parcel carrier UPS.Mr Hennessy said the company had already dealt with 11,000 test contacts and delivered 1,300 trial orders.There was some encouraging news for e-retailers generally in Verdict's report, which said nearly two-thirds of Britons have had products delivered to their homes in the last year.However, Mr Godliman said companies were lagging behind customers' expectations: "We've seen home shopping beginning to mushroom - initially through catalogues and now through the internet and television. Consumer expectations in terms of service are increasing quite substantially but actual delivery isn't changing much."He said it remained too difficult to get delivery in the evening or at weekends: "You can have the best website in the world but if people don't get what they want, they won't come back."Deloitte Consulting found that 21% of consumers expect to use the internet to make purchases over the next five years. However, 40% said they expected their trust in companies to diminish if remote channels were the only available option.The survey's author, David Owen, said feedback was often difficult. "Consumers need to know complaints are dealt with as voraciously as purchases," he said.He added that there were substantial national differences in attitude, with French and Italian customers, for example, still considering face-to-face contact particularly important.Mr Owen said: "US multinationals run the risk of treating different countries as homogeneous. I'm not saying people shouldn't be doing innovative things and taking commercial risks, but they need to adopt a multi-channel approach."
Fancy that: just when we're pondering the wisdom of blanket 20mph speed restrictions, two manufacturers launch road-ready race cars capable of breaking speed limits by more than 100 miles per hour. But the all-new BMW Z8 and the latest version of the Porsche 911 Turbo are, like any other car, only as dangerous as the drug crazed city trader who's driving them. In fact, as the two media launches showed, both are exceptionally good at going very slowly.The venues proved the point. BMW unveiled the car that Pierce Brosnan used in his latest 007 caper in the go-slow of downtown LA. Once you come unstuck from the inner-city glue, you can let rip on the coast road, as long as you stay under 55mph. And if that isn't frustration enough, the 400bhp roadster with a 0-60 time of just   4.7 seconds was accompanied en route by a team of highway police, hired by BMW to make sure everyone stayed calm.The Porsche launch, a few days later in southern Spain, was equally hamstrung. A man with a cane pointed to the fast bits of the route shown on the projector - but the bosses made it clear that we must observe all speed limits. Given the 420bhp of muscle that waited outside (Porsche's most powerful car to date) it seemed Porsche might have had more luck convincing a pack of starving greyhounds not to feel interested in the world's most chewable rabbit.There was a serious reason for BMW's decision to air its first batch of supercars in LA. The Z8 is capable of Tysonesque brutality, but that was not, of course, the maker's key point. More significant to the agenda was that this is   "a sports car virtually purpose-built for a country with boulevards and freeways simply begging you to cruise along in style" a country, "where the elite shape their bodies to ultimate beauty". Dodgy analogy indeed, but the Z8's key charm is its tuxedoed gentility.Of course it's shockingly expensive, though this won't put people off. Only 70 Z8s will come to the UK in the first year and when sales start this May, you'll be lucky to get a sniff - unless you booked a place in the queue a long time ago and are prepared to wait two years.Set for normal response, the Z8 surges forward in town with an unmistakable V8 burble; switch to the sport setting and you get an instant, drag-car punch. In the event, BMW allowed us onto a test track. And when it's pushed hard and the Dynamic Stability Control button is off, the Z8 handles with   far more precision and balance than its mighty frame might suggest. Despite the fact that the ride is seriously silky, the aluminium body conceals true supercar potential. It's not 911-nimble, but as a straight-line racer, it's breathtakingly quick.Quickness is, however, a relative concept, as I found when I settled into Porsche's latest. For many reasons, the 911 Turbo is the car that needs no PR. Firstly, it has the kind of heritage that comes only with a model that can trace its roots back to Ferdinand Porsche's first design doodles in the 1930s. Sporty offshoot of the Beetle, the first-throw 911 emerged in 1963, but it wasn't until 1974 that the first turbo came along. With an output of 260bhp,   the car was a shocker and it heralded a styling trend that, in the 1980s, would establish Porsche as the tarmac equivalent of the shoulder pad.Moving relentlessly up the power range, the latest incarnation shifts to 62mph in just 4.2 seconds and belts on relentlessly to a permitted maximum of 189mph. Bearing British sensitivity to speed in mind, I asked Porsche's bosses whether they didn't feel sensitive to the social implications of making cars that go faster and faster? For the record, no, they don't. But you can't say I didn't ask.Beneath its skin, the new Turbo harbours big changes. No longer air-cooled, as was the predecessor of 1998, it now relies upon a standard-fit super-intelligent four-wheel drive system which shifts traction to wherever the road best offers grip. Power comes from a six-cylinder engine first designed for use in the Boxster.To prevent the kind of lift-off oversteer that has Audi TT salesmen sweating in their sleep, the Turbo has a PSM (Porsche Stability Management). But with so much technology on board, is it not, perchance, a teeny bit dull to drive? The answer to that is in my    test notes: "Ooh, is that supposed to happen? Blimey! What the_?" In the first few miles, it does make you go all dizzy. The gearchange is surprisingly light, given its job, but the steering is obsessed with providing you with a forensic report on the road - every tiny twist in the tarmac is faithfully fed back and on the first (slightly unexpected) bend, the trouble downstairs is reported - and ruthlessly ironed out. Given the limitless acceleration and the huge willingness of third and fourth gears to deal with all range of speeds, it's not long before you start to settle in and relax. As looks go, the turbo has returned to the safe side of overt. There is a hinted measure of aggression in the deep front air intakes, while the scoops on the rear   haunches make it clear from any distance that this is a one-off car. But its muscularity is far more of a suggestion than a full-on scream.So which is better? Unfortunately, we were not able to run a nose-to-tail test, but the psychological imprint from each test is long-lasting. For the ultimate dynamic drive, the 911 pulls a clear nose ahead of the Z8. Both machines sit comfortably at the pinnacle of supercar status. Yet if shameless decadence is your bag, the BMW may just edge ahead as a true transport of delight. This sort of dosh, however, has to be all about performance. In which case, the only thing you need know is that the Porsche so many of us secretly want has just got that bit better.
What are you driving?A black BMW 320i. It's quite sporty but not flash.What does that say about you?I like to have fun.What do you like about it?I love it because it's easy to drive - it has a good kick to it with lots of power and I feel safe.Why did you buy it?I had just started to earn money as an actor and I needed a car. I'd always wanted a BMW and this one just called out to me from the car lot.What kind of driver are you?Good. I don't batter the car. I'm pretty careful but there's a difference between careful and boring. I don't crawl along at 20 miles an hour.Any bad habits?I'm not going to admit to any.Any driving test tales?I passed third time when I was 17 - although I looked 12.What was your first car?A battered Ford Escort mark II that cost &#163;200. At the time I thought it was brilliant.What do you use your car for?It's a luxury. I use it when visiting friends or my parents.Have you experienced road rage?Yes. It's always frustrating but I'm calm on the roads and tend to approach things sensibly. Once or twice I've had to get out of the car and say "Be careful" to other drivers.What sort of state is your car in?It's pretty tidy except for the glove compartment, where it's carnage - full of tapes and books, cloths, all sorts - but that's ok, it shows it's lived in.What's in the boot?Two big Sony speakers that I'm trying to get repaired.Have you ever had sex in a car?No, but I've had a few snogs.What music do you listen to on the road?I make compilation tapes of whatever music I'm into. Recently it's been Marvin Gaye, Supergrass, Moby, the Charlatans. I love being on a long stretch with my tapes.What would be your dream car?An old 60s Mercedes 280SL - the epitomy of cool except the image of its driver is that of retired gents who play golf. I want to reclaim it for the youth.Who would be your dream passenger?Someone like Helena Christensen. She'd be a good passenger for Sunday picnics.Did you get to keep the jeep from Queer as Folk?No it was given as a raffle prize to the Terrence Higgins Trust.&#149; Craig Kelly is appearing in Helpless at the Donmar Warehouse in London until April 8.
Covert surveillance by MI5, MI6 and the police, including tapping phones and bugging homes, will be exempt from challenge under a new right to privacy contained in the Human Rights Act, it has emerged.The security and intelligence agencies will be protected from any court challenge by a hitherto unnoticed provision in the regulation of investigatory powers bill now going through parliament.The bill covers a wide range of intrusive surveillance techniques, including systematic targeting of an individual over a period of time in order, as the Home Office puts it, "to obtain a picture of his life, activities and his associates".It includes the bugging of private property and cars, and the use of "covert human intelligence sources" - informants or undercover officers.Ministers will be able to issue orders allowing agencies other than the security and intelligence services to undertake covert surveillance. They   include the Department of Health and Social Security, the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Department of Trade and Industry as well as local authorities.While the bill says that warrants for intercepting communications would still be signed by cabinet ministers, authorisation for other forms of surveillance would be given by senior police officers or even local authority officials.The act, which comes into force in England and Wales on October 2, allows individuals to go to the ordinary courts to challenge those in authority who breach the new right of privacy.However, where the activities of the security and intelligence services - or any other group conducting secret surveillance on their behalf - are concerned this right will not exist.Instead of being able to go to the ordinary courts to challenge violations of privacy individuals will be forced to have their cases dealt with by a special tribunal.The proposed body is modelled on existing "complaints tribunals" covering the activities of MI5 and other agencies which have existed since 1985. However, though they have received hundreds of complaints, they have never upheld a single complaint.John Wadham, director of the civil rights group Liberty, said last night: "The regulation of investigatory powers bill authorises the most intrusive kinds of surveillance by some of the most secretive organisations in the country."The safeguards in the bill for these very significant invasions into our privacy are inadequate as it is. The most shocking thing is the government intends to give them immunity from normal challenges under the Human Rights Act."The irony is that the special tribunal - whose decisions, according to the bill, will not be "questioned in any court" - is itself unlikely to meet the requirements of the right to a fair trial in article 6 of the human rights convention incorporated in the Human Rights Act.
Recently, a thought struck me. Why are so many journalists in danger of making millions of pounds from the net? Look at Tim Jackson, the ex-Financial Times and Independent foreign correspondent. He runs QXL, the online auction business.He is now 111th in the Sunday Times Rich List, and "worth" £272m. Then there's Danny Kelly, former editor of Q and NME. He's the chief executive of the 365 corporation, which provides content for websites, Wap phones and digital TV. The company's current stock market value is a somewhat piffling £550m. I ask this question only because there is a small, but nevertheless real, chance, that a small fortune might be coming my way. And the fact that I'm a journalist has a lot to do with it. Let me explain.In January, I was commissioned by Hodder and Stoughton to write a book, to be published in January 2001, called How To Make Your Million from the Internet (and what to do if you don't). It will be a diary of my attempts to turn £50,000 into £1m by using the internet to trade shares. I raised the money by mortgaging my house. Month one went well. Through a mixture of judgment, instinct and luck (and not trading every day, but going for long-term bets), I made a real cash profit of more than £30,000.I have already received a five-figure advance for the book, and two national newspapers are inquiring about serialisation rights. Hodder tell me that several foreign publishers are interested too. But - and this is where the serious money comes in - I have started up my own website, so interested punters can track my progress. And if that works, the title of my book might - just might - become a self-fulfilling prophecy. I have an email, sent last week, from the chief executive of a stock market listed dot.com company, enquiring about buying a sizeable stake in my project.The thing is, my experience is illuminating to all those journalists out there (yes, you) who say: "My God, shouldn't I be making lots of money out of all of this stuff?"  How many people like that do you know? Lots and lots, all feeling a little bit of envy about their former colleagues making lots and lots of money. Two weeks ago Martin Dunn announced that he was leaving his post as head of new media at Associated Newspapers. Now Danny Meadow Klue has said he is leaving a similar position at the Telegraph. Both are going into the start-up business.What's struck me is the speed, and the relative ease, with which things happen: I keep expecting someone to say "No you can't do that mate, not possible." But so far, no one has.  However - and I don't want to sound disingenuous here - this project is primarily about journalism, not making money. I want to see how the stockmarket and the internet work, from the sharp end. I want to see how easy it is for someone like me, a complete cyberdunce until two months ago, to make - or lose - vast amounts of money. What I've now realised is that it's journalists who are in a much better position than most to take advantage of the net. Why? Because we have the two things that the net is crying out for. Ideas and communication skills.  "As journalists, when we have a great idea, we write about it. Now, thanks to the net, we can turn it into something a lot more interesting," says David Thomas, a freelance writer currently raising funding for his Shobiz.com internet venture."The net is overflowing with computer wizards and moneymen, but there's a real shortage of people who  can get good ideas over simply and effectively. A lot of sites out there are, quite frankly, filled with crap."The basic journalistic skills are invaluable, all the way along the line. Take writing a business plan: the key first step to securing the all-important interest of the Men with the Wallets. "A business plan is to an internet start-up what a film script is to a movie," Thomas says. "It's the first and most important thing you need to attract investment. You can still make a bad movie from a good script: but it's impossible to make a good movie from a bad script. And the same applies to business."To write a good plan you have to take an idea and develop it - tell a story in fact - which is, let's face it, what journalists do every day of the week. I've lost count of the number of venture capitalists who've told me how rare it is to see a well-written document."Crucially, journalists are also pretty good at getting publicity. Because of the incestuous nature of our business, we know plenty of other people who make it too, be they in papers, radio or television.The key point here is that if there's one thing a young dot.com venture needs more than anything, in a hopelessly overcrowded marketplace, it's publicity. In fact you only need the slightest whiff to get your bandwagon rolling: within minutes of a small paragraph appearing in the Media Guardian diary about my project last week, I had the BBC on the phone asking to make a documentary about me. And the Mail on Sunday, asking for an interview.  Net entrepreneurs also need the ability to become expert (or at least appear to be) in several different fields at once: technical, financial and logistical. They should be able to cope with vast amounts of complex information, extract the key points, and then act on them quickly. That, of course, is what journalists do with varying degrees of success.  The other thing is contacts."I've spent a long time in the media. I know how things work," says Danny Kelly. "I knew good content providers, for example, because I'd met them through work. And because I'm a journalist, they took me seriously."  Guardian readers will of course be familiar with the classic Marxist principle that real power stems from owning the means of production. A decade ago that was way out of reach for most of us. Now, for journalists, it's never been easier.  More importantly, the net offers real excitement: even if my project goes pear-shaped and I lose a packet I'll have learned skills I never knew existed and I'll have had a great time doing it. So, what are you waiting for?Jonathon Maitland is a reporter on ITV's Tonight with Trevor McDonald.   You can visit his website onhowtomakeyourmillion.com
A website claiming to be the first to allow Muslims to trade shares and buy investment products online in accordance with Islamic principles launches today with one eye on a $500m market flotation.IslamiQ.comwill offer banking, finance and insurance products and services that are in compliance with Shari'ah laws. Chief executive Hasnita Dato Hashim,   pictured left with venture co-founder Peter Farrid Faisal, said it would be targeted at an Islamic capital market worth $150bn, as well as the 94m Muslims who are forecast to be online by 2002.Shari'ah laws decree that money must be productive in society and forbids investments in activities such as gaming and alcohol or conventional financial institutions. Commercial   considerations must be combined with social obligations.IslamiQ.com has raised $6m from two Middle East institutions, the International Investor of Kuwait and Jeddah-based Dallah Al Baraka Group. Dr Hashim said a second round of fundraising to attract $50m of new finance is under way and an IPO on either the Nasdaq or London stock exchanges is   planned for within the next year."Muslims worldwide can now invest on a level playing field in terms of the technology and information available whilst still keeping to their Islamic principles," she said.Three prominent Shari'ah scholars will sit on an IslamiQ.com advisory board to give guidance on and approval to investment decisions. Dr Hashim has   eight years' experience in Islamic investment banking.&#149; Most online retailers fail to satisfy consumers and are providing a poor service, according to retail research consultancy Verdict.A report published today says significant investment in delivery functions will be required if many e-tailers are to go into profit.
David Beckham, already a millionaire several times over, is set to become a dotcom tycoon as leading internet firms vie to secure online rights to his name and image in a deal worth up to &#163;8m.The player's agent is offering the rights to run the Manchester United and England midfielder's official website to a number of firms, including the internet service provider Freeserve.An official David Beckham website could help double his personal wealth by carrying exclusive photographs and interviews with the player, as well as offering videos, books and other merchandise.In a recent survey, his fortune was valued at &#163;7m, with &#163;1.2m earned from playing football and the remainder coming from endorsements with Adidas and Brylcreem. This month he signed a book deal believed to be worth &#163;1m. John Holmes, head of SFX Entertainments which represents Beckham, confirmed that several companies were interested in controlling the player's image online: "There have been various approaches for internet stuff relating to David Beckham, and being the internet there are some enormous figures involved."Freeserve confirmed that they had been in contact with SFX Entertainments.The bidding war over online control of the highest profile star in British sport indicates an increasing awareness among celebrities and their representatives that the web can give them greater control over their images than traditional media, as well as providing another source of revenue. Gerrard Tyrrell, a lawyer specialising in sport with Harbottle &amp; Lewis, said: "If you can control the copyright on a significant amount of stuff - images and interviews and the like - the idea is that you strangle everyone else at birth and make sure that anyone who wants a bit of the player comes to you."
Netbenefit, the internet domain name registration company, has posted a maiden loss of &#163;473,421 for its half-year and says it expects to stay in the red until 2001 as it pursues an aggressive expansion plan.Netbenefit was profitable prior to its listing, last June, on the Alternative Investment Market, Aim.Acquisitions such as domain registration firm NetNames in January and other alliances with WorldPay, a specialist internet payment processor, have required greater staff numbers which have partly led to Netbenefit's losses.This was further compounded by provisions for national insurance contributions in respect of share options.Staff numbers have grown by some 150% to 47 since December 1998.Jonathan Robinson, chief executive of Netbenefit, said: "We came to the market as a profitable company in June last year and we have a profitable underlying business model. Yet we have had a strong message from investors to go for growth right now and get customers on board."Netbenefit's shares jumped 17% to &#163;14.75. The company's revenue during the six months to December 31 doubled to &#163;1.69m - yet revenues in February alone were &#163;1.1m once the acquisition of NetNames was included.Netbenefit sources 70% of its revenues from domain name registrations, with its number of websites hosted and managed now exceeding 75,000.The remainder of its sales come from providing e-commerce, email and other business services to companies.Analysts, however, remained concerned that Netbenefit's sales and administration costs continued to grow at a faster pace than revenues.Mr Robinson said the key for Netbenefit's future profits would be driving repeat business from those companies whose initial approach is to register a domain name.Netbenefit is expected to return to profitability within 18 months - after it has made a series of further acquisitions.Mr Robinson said these acquisitions would be funded by shares and cash, despite jitters in global stock markets about technology-related stocks. "I think the market is bound to have its wobbles. It's a volatile and rapid growth sector."
&#149; Start line Video-on-demand company Video Networks yesterday announced the UK's first high-speed always-on internet service to use conventional phone lines. The firm, which operates only in north-west London, said it was the first commercial service to use ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line) technology.&#149; Shop shape Comparison shopping portalShopsmart.commoved a step closer to flotation yesterday by appointing a new chief financial officer. Nicholas Lovell has been recruited from Deutsche Bank where he worked as an analyst. He has been involved in six IPOs in the past six months.&#149; Shelf life Supermarket group Sainsbury will route three-quarters of its purchasing spend through new web-based procurement system GlobalNetXchange , which the company bought a $15m stake in yesterday, Patrick McHugh, the supermarket chain's new director of e-commerce, said.
Pre-tax losses at Telewest, Britain's second largest cable operator, doubled in the past year to &#163;520.8m, due to aggressive expansion into digital television and the launch yesterday of a high-speed internet service, interactive television and email.Tony Illsley, the chief executive, blamed a leap in costs related to recruiting more staff for its new media services as well as an increase in other administration costs. Costs before depreciation and amortisation jumped 45% to &#163;571m in the year.Revenues rose 47% to &#163;793m, benefiting from Telewest's capture of 100% ownership of its former cable subsidiaries, General Cable and Birmingham Cable."Our customer loyalty, usage and revenue are all noticeably increased," Mr Illsley said yesterday.The company balanced reporting of widening losses by announcing that it has   achieved 110,000 digital television customers since launching the service five months ago. Almost half are new customers to Telewest.The group expects to reach 500,000 digital subscribers by the year-end."Today is the time when Telewest steps into the whole broadband world and really leverages off our broadband network," Mr Illsley said.Telewest said that its new internet service, Blueyonder, which is claimed to be 15 times faster than current connections, would be available in a &#163;50 monthly package with unlimited access. That charge is additional to telephony and television subscription fees.The company expects to secure 40,000 subscribers to   Blueyonder despite criticism of the cost. Its existing unlimited internet package, Surf Unlimited, costs &#163;10 a month.Analysts were sceptical of the subscriber target for Blueyonder and said the price for high-speed internet would have to fall dramatically. Telewest also disclosed the design of its own portal which will carry interactive facilities such as TV-based email and electronic shopping.Separately, the group is examining a flotation of its joint venture with Andersen Consulting that is developing broadband technology and services.Telewest said that its monthly revenue per household increased 4% to &#163;35 in 1999. It had originally forecast that revenue would grow to &#163;50 in five years and &#163;70 in 10 years. The company now considers that those forecasts might be conservative, considering the rapid takeup of its digital television product.Churn rates also fell, with that for Telewest's television   offering down 2.9% to 26.1% and for telephony 20.1% lower.Telewest has 1.6m residential customers, up by 151,000 in the year. Its cable network passes 4.7m UK homes.Mr Illsley said the multi-billion pound merger with the pay-TV programme company, Flextech, remains on track after recently gaining full regulatory approval.Once the merger occurs Telewest intends to hand over control of content creation and packaging to Flextech, while it continues purely as the distributor.Flextech also announced 1999 results yesterday, delivering a pre-tax profit of &#163;5.1m compared with a loss of the same order in the previous year.The combined company is not expected to post a profit until 2004.Telewest shares jumped 45p to 469.75p, while Flextech rose 175p to 1,740p.
An internet company specialising in encryption technology guaranteeing secure e-commerce transactions is preparing a stock market flotation likely to value it in excess of &#163;450m.London-based Indicii Salus - a Latin name for information technology - has appointed Goldman Sachs to advise it on a summer float. Founder Paran Chandrasekaran, 33, stands to net a &#163;200m-plus paper fortune seven years after abandoning a PhD at the University of London to set up the company.The security of online transactions has become one of the hottest issues for the internet sector amid fears that hackers could access private financial information online.Goldman is leading a &#163;12m pre-flotation fundraising round and is talking to some of Indicii Salus's blue chip customers about taking strategic   stakes. The bank reports strong interest from potential investors eager to grab a slice of a company some analysts describe as "the next Baltimore Technologies".Baltimore, a Dublin-based encryption specialist, joined the FTSE 100 index earlier this month after a meteoric rise in its share price amid heavy investor demand for stocks specialising in net security. Mr Chandrasekaran studied under the same London University professor as Baltimore's founder and chairman, Henry Beker.Indicii Salus says that its customers include a number of leading online banks and retailers. Current investors include the venture capital group 3i, which holds a 20% stake.Neville Conrad of the Conrad Ritblat property group, Peter Freeman of the Argent property company and Alba television chairman John Harris each hold shares.
Do the rules of the old financial world affect the new economy? The answer appears to be increasingly yes.Lastminute.comis not the only internet stock to have come down to earth with a bump. Lycos Europe began trading on Wednesday on the Neuer Markt and immediately slipped below its issue prices of euro 24, closing at euro 22.85.Previous fallers included the   Dutch internet company World Online International, down more than 20% in its first three days on the market.A new paper by Chris Higson and John Briginshaw of London Business School offers a possible explanation.Published in the next issue of Business Strategy Review, it argues that while some of the high-priced internet stocks will survive and justify their valuations most will not.The reason is simple: they will never generate enough cash. Like most analysts, Higson and Briginshaw dismiss traditional stock evaluation methods.Because most internet companies are start-ups, it is pointless looking at price/revenue or price/earnings multiples because they do not have any revenues or earnings. The key issue is whether stock prices reflect reasonable expectations about the growth and profitability of internet businesses.The only way to test that is to model the company's ability to generate cash in the future.Predicting the market for internet businesses is difficult enough, given the range of alternatives. But expectations about the future competitive environment in which they operate are just as important.A common mistake is to assume the competitive environment will be the same as it has been in the past and that new economy companies will earn fat, old economy margins.In reality, Higson and Briginshaw argue, the internet will become much more competitive, making the new econ omy a difficult place in which to earn profits."In such a world, the market allows companies survival rations, no better," they say.To illustrate their point that most internet valuations are stretched, Higson and Briginshaw examine two high-profile internet companies -Amazon.com, which in February, had a market capitalisation of $1.6bn, and Freeserve, which was worth &#163;7bn.After studying a range of revenue growth patterns, structures of costs and attainable profit margins, they conclude that on only the most optimistic assumptions is Amazon's value justified. Even more aggressive assumptions for Freeserve's profit margins and sales growth are required to justify the stock's price.Higson and Briginshaw suggest that a lot of internet investors could lose their shirts. But it is not only individuals that stand to suffer. If the bub ble bursts, falling stock prices could hit economic growth. But even the bubble is doing damage to the real economy."In a bubble, companies which own successful internet operations may be tempted to spin them off to give shareholders the benefit of bubble valuations, at risk of compromising their ability to capture the synergies from a clicks and mortar strategy."On the other hand, high observed valuations may tempt corporate managers to build internet activities even though they possess no competency or advantage in this area. New economy companies with bubble valuations may use overvalued paper to facilitate acquisitions of businesses which they have little ability to manage."
The internet has transformed the way we work. Too right. I don't think I've done a proper day's work since the dawning of the internet age. How can I? I have email. And so do all my friends :-)The old days of knowing who the time-wasters were by hearing them on the phone all day are long gone. Email is silent, immediate, and best of all, indistinguishable from proper work. Or is it? A recent survey by ISPzoom.co.ukshowed that 87% of average wired up employees avoid sending personal emails in work for fear of censure.To what extent your company is freaking out about email abuse though, largely depends on its attitude to IT. Your average small business usually has its IT department manned solely by a large, pasty-faced Buffy fan called Nigel. It's hardly likely that Nigel, with his ongoing attempts to stage the world premiere of King Lear in Klingon, has the time for complex email surveillance.The frightening truth, however, is that to get a copy of every email speeding in and out your office email account is the work of a few minutes for any half-decent IT administrator. Most businesses have their email set up so it goes via a central server, and it can be set up so that a copy of incoming mail will hit your bosses' inbox before it hits yours; similarly anything you send out will be copied prior to leaving the company.There are numerous ways   for the average cubicle drone like you and me to fight back and reclaim our companies' expensive IT infrastructure for own petty ends though. For example, the chances are that your boss isn't really receiving a copy of every email you send; most systems are set up to filter keywords on the subject line of the email, like "porn" or "joke", and of course, that giveaway email subject line: "Painful!". It's best, then, to avoid making your email sound remotely interesting; try using worthless corporate platitudes in the subject line like "Way to go team!", or "Congrats to the sales boys on making those Q3 targets!". They should slide right by.You could of course, try encrypting your email. There are a few problems with this, however, the least of which is that you are probably breaking every single one of your company laws. More importantly, you might get caught doing it. You are most likely to use some form of PGP (Pretty Good Privacy) software, and an IT department can spot an encrypted email a mile away. They will either catch it before it gets encrypted, or you will be hauled into scary offices to explain why encrypted emails are leaving the company.The simplest way to evade spying eyes is to set up a web-based email account using your office internet connection.Hotmail) is probably the most popular, along withYahoo, simply roll up to their sites and sign up.   Emails are kept in your own inbox out on the internet, and you can access them from any internet connected PC. The disadvantage is that you are completely at the mercy of webmail servers, which can be hacked, or simply fall over from the strain.If your company is really kicking up a fuss about the number of employees downloading Toy Story 2 trailers, then they may have licensed some monitoring equipment from companies like SurfControl. This is very bad for you. It means that your boss can see what you're seeing on the internet with just a click of his mouse, rendering the web-based approach to email a no-no.In which case it's time to play hardball. Sign up with a free ISP on your PC at home (this is the Online section - I'm allowed to make these kind of hardware assumptions). Note down your basic email settings then replicate them in your email client at work. With the software wizards that programs like Outlook have built into them, this may sound a bit tricky, but it isn't really. All you are doing is simply importing the settings for an existing email account.   You will need to know your incoming (POP3 probably) and outgoing (SMTP) mail server addresses, and your email address and password.Alternately, access your email completely independently of the company by buying a mobile phone with an in-built digital modem, and hook it up to a handheld device like a Revo, using the an infra-red connection. Set the handheld's email client with your email settings  and bob's your uncle.You'll need a newer, expensive phone, and the connection rate of 9.6kbps isn't perfect, but who knows, your company may even pay your phone bill!My personal favourite though, as suggested to me by an IT administrator who shall remain nameless, is to install a modem card into your PC (strictly the work of after-office hours). Then simply unplug your phone, plug in your modem and hook yourself up with a free ISP. Pure genius. You will, of course, have to suddenly develop a chesty cough whenever you dial-up, as nothing breaks busy office silence more raucously than modem-screech.If anyone checks the phone bill, they will simply see an anonymous-looking ISP dial-up number, and since it only takes seconds to send and receive emails, nothing should look too out of place.Don't use this as a means to surf the internet though; you will rack up an enormous phone bill that is sure to be detected. Oh dear, is that the sound of sirens approaching?
Microsoft's ambitions in the UK cable television industry were dealt a blow yesterday when the European Commission announced a further investigation into the software group's bid for a large stake in Telewest Communications.Mario Monti, the EU competition commissioner, referred to fears that Microsoft would use its 29.7% stake in the UK's second-largest cable television operator to increase sales of its   own set-top box operating system."We will make a detailed assessment of the impact of the transaction on competition conditions in various areas of the digital cable industry... in particular the provision of software for digital set-top boxes in the UK and its impact for the choice of British cable subscribers," he said.Microsoft had offered to make several concessions, including safeguarding Telewest's ability to choose other   set-top box operating systems and allowing other content providers and software developers to make products compatible with its system.These were rejected by the commission as inadequate. Microsoft, already under fire from an anti-trust action in the US, would take joint control of Telewest as part of last year's $5bn investment in AT&amp;T, the US telecoms group.Microsoft said it would "continue to work very hard with authorities to reach acceptable   terms for an agreement". However, it would fight any condition which weakened its position in the sector. "The market for set-top boxes is very, very competitive," a Microsoft spokesman said.The EU is likely to make a final decision by early August. Although it rarely rejects a deal outright, it is expected to insist on more concessions to ensure consumers can choose different operating systems for the boxes, which control cable access to the internet.
The community spirit of gays and lesbians seems to be waning. Fewer balloons go up on Aids memorial day, and pride marches suffer from lack of organisation. Is the whole community model old hat? Are gays and lesbians finally dissolving happily into society at large?   No, they have just moved to another place.Log on to one of the portals and you'll be surprised to see that the gay and lesbian community is celebrating a rebirth. It has become an incredibly welcoming, supportive, vibrant and amusing place. But confusing as well.  Of the two now leading US community portals, Planet Out was the first to lure gay users away from busy bulletin boards and newsgroups in 1995. A year later Gay.com was launched.On the EU side, a private investor made it possible for three journalists who had run the Eurogay website from Hamburg as a hobby to turn it into a professional community in 1998.   These virtual commercial communities differ fundamentally from the real life ones in that they have owners. This is were the confusion starts. For when the members of any minority group log on to a commercial virtual community, they enter the digital transformation of their real life community, with its rich history of troubles and triumphs, martyrs and heroes.Their virtual community may have a familiar face but it also has a business model.   Owners of virtual communities are at pains to say they are gays and lesbians themselves. "To me, the Gay Financial Network is my family table," writes Walter Schubert in his founders' message of 1995. "I hope that by bringing my family together, and pooling our collective resources, the GFN home will reverse trends of gay hate, and stop the soul killing disease of homophobia."   By bringing this family together GFN raised $6m in its second round of investment deals last October."Virtual communities will have the opportunity to create very substantial economic wealth for organisers", say John Hagel and Arthur Armstrong, the writers of the much acclaimed "Net Gain:   Expanding markets through virtual communities, in an interview on Amazon.com.'Market research has shown that gays and lesbians have a higher disposable income, log on more frequently and for longer and buy more via the net than any other demographic group", wrote the Industry Standard, last February. Advertisers and investors are rushing in as Planet Out, Gay.com and GFN run to bring more content to this lucrative market. It shows: their splash pages are filled to the brim and it is difficult to choose where to click first.   In their haste for net presence, many start-ups present themselves being half-ready, developing their community on the fly.Eurogay.co.uk for instance, the English version of the German Eurogay. At its UK start on March 3, parts of the content were copied from the German site. Eurogay also has a French and Spanish   version underway. The most prominent features of Eurogay are an extensive shop and sleazy news items mostly about celebrities.   Another of the four new European communities started over the last six months is Sonow.net. It is owned by the publishers of BoyzNow and the Pink Paper and includes Dykesworld.Its hit rate is already higher than that of Time Out or The Independent sites.  This promises to become the overall site for UK lesbians. For the moment it asks dykes for feedback   on what they want the   community to be like without offering them a significant format.  A sophisticated start-up of 1999 is Queerlondon.com, which targets well-off tourists with private screenings, luxury accommodation and quarterly meetups. Posh Queerlondoners smile at you in stylish pictures and declare their love of champagne and being happy. They announce sponsorship delights for "our community".A huge part of their site is also still under construction but questions about their ambitions are met with panic stricken silence.  In contrast to run-of-the mill Eurogay and other competitors with work-in-progress, Rainbownetwork stands out as an original. Launched last September, it is the most playful with fun categories like Fluff and a Quizz Heaven. They signed up Bank of Scotland as an advertiser  shortly after Outrage! highlighted the bank's anti-gay remarks. Cheekily, Peter Tetchell's first column was placed next to their  Java driven ad.    Mark Fullalove, managing director, boasts that the British financial press reported on the £1m investment from New Media Spark, the  high profile internet venture capitalists.This net adventurer is also one of the founders of a leisure company running some of Soho's most thriving venues.   How confused gays and   lesbians are about the nature of online communities is shown by the fact that people volunteer to host a chat or write reviews. Would any gay in his right mind volunteer in one of Fullalove's successful bars?Rainbownetwork, though, like most virtual communities, has a network of volunteers who are recruited with texts like: "It is through you that we'll become the premier gay and lesbian website online" or "By volunteering you empower our community".An Amsterdam portal will start on Queensday, April 29. It is built by a small net company run by gay twentysomethings called Guts. Annoyed by the lack of interest from gay rights organisations like COC, they decided to tie together some software they had in stock to build Queer.nl. FaceBase, a popular database for gay contacts which they developed, will be integrated in Queer.nl. The company is pretty open about its motives. "We want to build community software for all sorts of groups. A busy queer community portal will be an excellent showcase for that," says Bram Heerink, one of the founders.Whereas communities for gay men are mostly for profit, those exclusively for dykes are not. A well known, huge and wonderfully designed German portal, Dykesworld.de (1995), not to be confused with the UK Dykeworld, is the brainchild of Indina Beuche, a desktop publishing specialist of 41 who doesn't want to make a penny from it, out of "love and respect for the global dyke community". As cyberspace is now awash with global communities   oozing love and respect, even her authentic support sounds suspect.Community portals are praised by their grass roots organisations for their good works: making coming out easier, offering a smooth ride through hundreds of webpages, ploughing money back into the real-world community through sponsorships, and raising the visibility of gays and lesbians by sitting at the table with venture capitalists and blue chip organisations like Marks &amp; Spencer, who were never associated with the gay and lesbian community before. By embracing everything gay and lesbian on the net (except hard core porn), they attract clicks as fast as possible and hope for world domination. Is that great or is that simply greed?Gays wallow in a wonderland to check out Irish jokes here and offers of gentle kissing in a Soho fumoir there with their own gay visa card at hand. Political issues do seem to lose credibility in a banner-plastered context. Or would gays take Peter Tatchell just as seriously if he stormed Canterbury cathedral wearing a T-shirt with a Bank of Scotland logo? In commercial communities, gays are offered the alluring possibility of being connected to an   enormous range of likeminded people. With such huge numbers of members however, the gay community becomes a commodity.Addresseswww.planetout.comwww.gay.comwww.eurogay.co.ukwww.sonow.netwww.rainbownetwork.comwww.queerlondon.comwww.queer.nlwww.dykesworld.de
Amazon.com (Get Big Fast) by Robert SpectorRandom House &#163;18.99Amazon is still the corporate superstar of the internet age. It virtually invented the dot.com culture. But, nearly five years on, the jury is out on whether it will dominate the world or be devoured by its own hubris.Driven by the "maniacally focused" Jeff Bezos, its market capitalisation hit $28bn at one point last year. Yet in the third quarter of 1999 it made a loss of $197m on sales of $356m.No one can question the sheer scale of Bezos' achievement in creating the web's first global brand out of such a fragmented industry as book publishing. At the end of 1999, according to Forrester Research, it was rated the best website for music, videos, toys and games as well as books even though it had had less success in becoming the dominant brand in non-book areas.Yet there is always this feeling that it could fly a little bit too high and, like Icarus, fall from the sky with melting wings. Failure could come from the financial markets getting fed up with the company's failure to make a profit in an area where huge scale is needed to compensate for thin profit margins. Or because Amazon's click-thick loyalty is hi-jacked by fledgling competitors. One such company, Buy.com, is programmed to scan Amazon's prices and automatically undercut them. And no one can undercut Amazon's prices more effectively than book publishers themselves - if they ever managed to get their act together.Brand loyalty to Amazon isn't like that to Coca Cola - embedded in the product - it is attached to a quality and reliability of service that has   to be kept up 24 hours a day.It will if Bezos has anything to do with it, and it's worth reading this book (despite its frequent bobbysoxing approach and lack of an index) just to see why driven entrepreneurs like him are different from the rest of us. One close observer called him "the most single-mindedly focused person I have ever met - to his detriment, it's all he cares about".If future historians want to know why Amazon got there first rather than, say, a UK-based electronic alternative such as Bookpages (which provided access to a cool 1.2m books but was bought up by Amazon) they need look no further than Bezos. He has managed to keep the company afloat partly because so much of the equity capital is kept by him and his family but also because his cashflow is helped by the fact that Amazon often receives the money for books before it has even ordered them. This gives it up to 33 days use of customers' money before having to pay suppliers.That's an old and proven business model. Bezos has yet to prove that his new Get Big Fast philosophy will make Amazon.com a permanent global force - or just a big corporate carcass for the second movers to chew over.
If the headlines are to be believed, starting a business on the internet goes something like this: you have a great idea for a site, you are rich enough to be able to quit your job, and technically advanced enough to build your own site before a venture capitalist invests a few million quid for a 10% equity stake. At this point the papers start writing about you, people visit your site in droves and you float on the stock market for &#163;200m.For those of us living in the real world, it's a bit more like this: you have a great idea for a site. You get hold of some software from a net magazine's free CD and have a go at building your own site. You work harder than you've ever done in your life... and no one visits your site. Certainly not an investor.So how can someone without useful parents and the right degree make a business work on the web? First of all you need to resign yourself to the fact that it will be harder and take longer than you first thought.But that doesn't mean it's impossible to build an empire from your bedroom. The first - and most important - thing is make sure that your idea is as robust as it can be.   Spend time brainstorming to make sure it really is as brilliant as you originally thought. Identify every possible revenue stream and work out how to exploit them.This is essential if your site is ever going to make serious money as no investor will take you on unless you can demonstrate that your idea holds the keys to the bank's vaults. You also have to make sure that you can provide your site with all the love and attention it needs: you need to supply the content - be it text on pruning roses or the best deals on discounted goods - and be able to build and manage the site and the associated business (fulfilling orders etc).You will also need time - every entrepreneur you meet will tell you how hard they work - and the support of the people around you.Let's assume your idea is absolutely brilliant and you know that if you could just get the ear of an investment consultant at 3i, the money would be in the bank by the end of the week. But as you have no contacts and no track record, sadly, the best way to get investment is to show that you can do it without investment.It's sod's law, but it's true. You have to build your own site as best you can and find a   way of showing that your idea works in the real world, as well as in your head.If your idea is too complex to build without funding, focus on one aspect of the business you can build and that gives enough of an idea to investors of the full picture. It's possible to build a site with free software from magazine covers and downloads from the net. A good place to start iswww.netmag.co.uk/software/default.aspwhich supplies free software from .net magazine, but paying for a user-friendly Wysiwyg (what you see is what you get) programme like Dreamweaver or Go Live might be a smart investment (you can download free trial versions).Building a site takes time and is incredibly frustrating, but you will learn so much and understand your business so much better for persevering. If you need to call in a professional designer, do as you would for a decorator: go by recommendation.You can get your site hosted for free by your internet service provider (eg Demon or Freeserve), but shop around for a hosting service that will put you on a good server (ie one    that will allow your site to download quickly). It should also offer good technical support - vital if you're a small team without good technical skills. It's also worth shopping around the domain registry sites, trywww.netnames.co.ukorwww.uk2.netto get the best deal on a good, memorable URL. (uniform resource locator).Now tell people about your site. Networking is the most important thing you can do. Tell the postman, tell the other people in the queue at the supermarket - tell absolutely everyone you can think of. Join a networking group likeFirstTuesday, Surfs Up or Boobnight and find out what other people are doing, see if they can help out, or if you can help them. Make allies and as many introductions as you can. Evangelise about your site and convert everyone you meet. If you   don't do it, no one else will. There is a good networking tradition in the internet and investors will expect you to make the most of the opportunities it can provide.You also need to tell your potential users about the site and - as everyone will tell you - good marketing is the real driver of internet success. Think creatively about ways to do your marketing cheaply. Think about who your users are, where they shop, where they work, what they read and what other sites they might use. Is there another company that already targets your audience and whose contacts you could use? Or is there an event or seminar where you could hand out leaflets?It's a waste of your time sending press releases to the national press unless you've got a really good story for them: simply launching   another site is not news to most journalists. And don't forget to use the internet. There's a lot of ambivalence about the effectiveness of banner exchanges and reciprocal links - but they are often free and if you can scratch backs with enough sites with which you have some synergy it can help get your brand and web address into circulation.Try to get hold of your potential users' email addresses (this is much easier if your idea is for a business-to-business application) and send them some promotional material. Make it worth their while - are there special offers you can motivate them with, or prizes you can give away? Make sure you get a good listing on the search engines. Take a look atwww.searchenginewatch.comfor tips on how to get a good listing and keep plugging away until you come out on top. Again, this is very frustrating but a site with a low ranking is never going to make money.After a few months of serious marketing, you should start to get a steady flow of traffic. Hopefully this will be enough to get some advertisers on board, but it won't be easy. The big agencies like24/7andDoubleclickwon't be interested in you unless you have several hundred thousand page impressions a month, which means you will probably have to sell some space yourself. While the income will be nice, it will be more important for showing venture capitalists that there is a genuine appetite to advertise on your site.You're now ready to approach financiers. You will need a business plan that outlines your idea, that makes clear why you're the best person to do it and how much money you will need. Crucially, it must also tell investors how much money they're going to make. There are loads of websites and books that will help you do this (the links section ofwww.toptechnology.co.ukandwww.bvca.co.uk- the Venture Capital association - are good places to start), but getting your plan noticed by a VC, incubator or business angel is another matter.Getting someone to make an introduction on your behalf is a big help but if you don't have the contacts, the internet is your greatest ally. Almost all investors have websites which specify the kind of businesses they're interested in, the amounts of money they invest and the names of the people to send business plans to. Even so raising finance, despite what the headlines say, is hard. For every 100 business plans read, four meetings take place and one idea gets funded. But maybe, just maybe, it will be yours.&#149;  Josephine Monroe, co-founder of the-bullet.comthe-bullet.com
Between now and 2003 Western Europe stands to lose &euro; 380 billion (&#163;232.3bn) due to the shortage of skilled IT staff. That's the message Microsoft hopes to have preached from the EU presidential pulpit as Portugal takes over leadership of the European Union.The figure comes from studies undertaken by researchers Datamonitor, IDC, and Goldman Sachs which, put together, read like a rather grim good news/bad news joke both for the IT industry and the economy in general. The good news, according to a Goldman Sachs report entitled The Shocking Economic Effect Of B2B, is that business to business (B2B) e-commerce has the potential to increase GDP by 5%over two decades. Better yet says Datamonitor, productivity gains alone from IT could boost EU GDP by 1.5% through 2002.The bad news is that those figures are dependent on the European countries coming up with an estimated 1.7 million IT professionals who are currently nowhere to be found. As well as losing out on productivity, the EU is set to miss out on &euro; 60bn (&#163;36.7bn) in tax revenue (personal and corporation) over the next three years unless it plugs the skills gap.The punchline to the joke is that figures from IDC see demand for IT professionals in the EU topping 13.07 million by 2003, while the supply of same is expected to reach 11.33 million at best. The argument of Microsoft and much of the IT industry is that if the EU is going to put full employment at the top of its wish list, then for the sake of commerce and of its own coffers it should focus on plugging the skills gap.True, only 5%of the EU workforce is employed in IT, but with an average annual wage of &euro; 48,000 (&#163;29,341),    compared with the average annual wage of &euro; 28,700 (&#163;17,543), they contribute heavily in tax. Ironically, as the skills shortage continues, and those wages rise, their individual worth to the EU increases correspondingly. In short, expensive though it may be to train IT staff, their return, both direct and indirect, makes it eminently desirable to cultivate them as the cash cows of GDP.These were the figures announced to 150 representatives of the EC, national governments, policy makers, growth companies and ITC companies' assembled in Brussels at the summit on technology, innovation, and skills training earlier this month. The purpose of the summit was to develop a call to action to be presented to the special European council in Lisbon addressing impediments to European competitiveness and employment where, it is hoped, measures will be considered to redress the potential lost opportunities of the IT skills gap.With such figures highlight ing the public interests at stake, it came as little surprise to see public/private training partnerships being proposed as the solution, along with certification, tax incentives, and reforms to the education systems of member states.In order to encourage the entrepreneur culture, the summit also called for bankruptcy law reform to stop failed ventures being so harshly penalised, and investment incentives to encourage the venture capital community. Tax breaks on equity holdings, and the simplification of pensions/NI to allow IT workers easier roaming around Europe were also listed as core elements of a future strategy. The recommendations seemed to largely find favour with those assembled, which was lucky really, since despite being   billed as a summit "to develop a call to action" it turned out that Microsoft (the sponsor) had opted to streamline the consultation process. So streamlined in fact, that the entire Call To Action had been completed, and, indeed, printed, before the summit began.Only the Lisbon summit will tell to what extent the Call To Action is taken on board, but Microsoft may not find it as easy to set the agenda when faced with the upper echelons of the Eurocracy. The last speaker of the day was Allan Larsson, the EC's director general for employment and social affairs. Evidently stung by the inference of the statistics which were being bandied about, he clearly rebutted any implication that the EU might have neglected the issues of the skills gap in the past. Sadly that was the end of any clarity.After absolving Brussels, the bureaucrat continued to talk with a lucidity and confidence and gravitas that very nearly masked the lack of content or commitment.If there was disquiet at Microsoft's control of the agenda, it was largely rationalised by the need to add weight to the issue at the highest level. It remains to be seen whether the bulk of the world's largest company is enough to tell with the powers that be in Portugal later this month.
Computer fraud and theft were responsible for an estimated $10bn &#91;&#163;6.4bn&#93; in losses in the US last year, according to a new survey. The figure is double that of the previous year and is blamed on the vast increase in the use of the internet.The survey suggests that many businesses and individuals are complacent about the risks of computer crime; some may even be unaware that they were the victims of fraud.The Computer Security Institute (CSI), which conducted   the survey, said the losses were caused by industrial espionage, malicious hacking and fraud. The San Francisco-based institute contacted 643 companies and public bodies in its survey.It comes in the wake of last month's spectacular hacking attacks against Yahoo!, eBay, Buy.com and other major internet sites, which demonstrated how easily malicious hackers are able to disrupt the operations of many large companies.The US president, Bill Clinton, convened a special meeting of computer security experts at the White House immediately after the attacks, and the conclusions of this survey are likely to put further pressure on the government to step up its security efforts.The CSI's editorial director, Richard Power, said, in terms of computer crime, the situation was "going from bad to worse".However, many cyber-security experts feel it is inevitable that the dynamic growth in internet business will bring a correspondent surge in internet crime."Isn't e-commerce booming?" asked Mr Power. "Then e-crime is booming. The more commerce that goes on-line, the more crime that goes on as well."One of the main worries of the companies was the fear that their employees were the likeliest to offend. Of those surveyed, 81% believed that disgruntled employees posed a fraud threat or had enough access to place viruses in the system.Three out of four companies feared that they were vulnerable to hackers.Despite the high fear of computer crime, the survey found that very few companies were actively seeking to improve their on-line security; there is roughly one computer security   executive for every 1,000 computers used in private industry. Of the companies surveyed, 74% reported theft of information, data sabotage or denial of service. However, the costs of denial of service attacks are hard to estimate.In the survey - conducted with the cooperation of the FBI, 59% of the companies reported attacks from the internet, while 38% registered attacks from internal computer systems.Bruce Gephardt, who heads the FBI's northern California computer security branch, said that there was a shortage of people assigned and qualified to deal with computer crime. However, there are signs that companies are beginning to wake up to the realities of computer crime: after last month's attacks, the FBI's scanning tool was downloaded 4,223 times in one day, compared with 170 on a day before the attacks."If the FBI and other law enforcement agencies are to be successful in combating the continuing increase in problems," said Mr Gephard, "we cannot always be placed in a reactive mode, responding to computer crises as they happen."What worries the FBI is that   much of the financial damage caused in the previous year was carried by "16-year-olds", who were hacking into and disrupting systems just to prove they could do it.Experts fear that it is only a matter of time before many more professional criminals see the possibilities for blackmail and extortion as the internet expands.Many new companies are vulnerable to these threats, as they place a premium on speedy response to customers seeking their services.One incidental form of computer crime reported to be on the increase was the simple,   old-fashioned theft of laptops.According to the survey, laptops have become better designed and lighter to carry, they have also become easier to carry away.Useful linksFBI's national computer crime squadAdvisory commission on internet commerceUS Internet Fraud Watch
iTV race is onThe race to get Britain's telly addicts online is about to get seriously hot. Following on from the launch of Bush's Internet TV (see last week's Online) NTL has announced the summer introduction of its Internet TV decoder. NTL's trump card is that couch potatoes turned netheads will pay only &#163;5 a month to get on line as all internet calls are free.Unlike the Bush Internet TV, the NTL box features an integrated hard disk drive so viewers with digital sets will also be able to record up to 10 hours worth of video, and pause and rewind live programmes.They will also be able to surf the net and watch TV at the same time, and have access to a host of interactive facilities through their sets.Picture thisToshiba has become the latest digital camera manufacturer to join the exclusive triple mega pixel club. The PDR-M70 is capable of a resolution of 3.37 megapixels which makes it a rival to recently launched top-end models from Sony and Olympus.Tosh reckons that the camera's pictures have been significantly improved thanks to a technology called PicTOP (Picture Optimiser). Apparently, this analyses the image in far greater detail to give a more accurate exposure level. The camera also sports video capturing facilities and can archive up to five minutes of moving images with audio. A digital voice recorder capable of taking up to 65 minutes of audio is another key   feature. Other facilities include 3x optical and 2x digital zoom, a boot time of less than three seconds and a one second delay between shots, a USB download port, and a Lithium Ion battery.It will be accompanied by the PDR-M60, a basic model targeted at first time buyers.Toshiba has also announced the September arrival of a pair of DVD Audio players, the SD500E and SD900E. The two models will play standard DVDs and CDs as well as new DVD audio   discs. The new format has a significantly higher frequency capability and wider dynamic range than standard audio CDs.My TVFancy downloading video files from the Net to create your own take-anywhere version of MTV?Coming in autumn is the Motion Yepp, a Palm 5 sized gadget from Samsung that will replay MPEG 4 video files on its 2in TFT screen. As well as being a hit with budding VJs, Samsung reckons that touring business types will use it to download videos of their family and then bore fellow travellers with footage of little Johnny's first steps.Due in the early summer is Photo Yepp, an MP3 player than can download JPEG images on to its 2in TFT screen.  Perhaps the most interesting model in Samsung's MP3 range is   a player built into a pair of headphones. It's called Headphone Yepp, and it will be in the stores in September.Sounds goodWatch out, PC geeks: your favourite music format could soon be moving mass-market. Aiwa has announced MM-FX500, the first ever portable MP3 recorder. The model, which goes on sale in Japan in June, features a built-in encoder that compresses audio signals from analogue output terminals on audio equipment to the MP3 format. Users will be able to convert their CDs, vinyl records and cassettes to MP3 without   ever having to go near a PC. It will cost around &#163;275 and is expected to reach the UK later this year.Aiwa's debut UK MP3 player, the MM-VX100, goes on sale next month viaAiwa's websitefor &#163;129.99.Movie magicForget Citizen Kane! We all know that the greatest movie ever made chronicled your kids' trip to Blackpool beach several years ago. If you want to improve on even that seminal piece of movie-making take a peek at Sharp's VL-PD6H digital camcorder. Its massive roll-call of facilities includes a detachable LCD screen monitor, an innovative zoom microphone and an option called Super Cats Eye that enables users to shoot black and white images in total darkness. It also has a slot for a SmartMedia card so still images can be transferred to a PC. It goes on sale next month priced at around &#163;1,100.
Cookie crunchFor William D Perry's information (Feedback, March 16),www.cookiecentral.comwill explain everything you ever wanted to know about cookies - what they are, how they work and how to avoid/get rid of them.I always enable cookies on my browsers (to avoid the annoying messages) then once a week delete those I don't want, keeping the useful ones such as my log-in ID for Excite UK, Hotmail, etc. I heard of a trick whereby you open (MSIE not Netscape) cookies, delete the contents, save them and make them read-only. Then each website recognises its cookies but is unable to update themDuncan Stricklanddunks@enterprise.netA simple way to deal with the nuisance of cookies is to buy Cookie Pal fromwww.kburra.comfor $15 or so. You can set it to reject all cookies except from sites whose cookies you want to accept (for example, you need to accept them from the Guardian's servers to use Guardian Online), and it is easy to add more servers to the list in operation.Adam Funkjafjmw@wlsfn.force9.co.ukBT InternetI have been a BT internet customer for nearly three years and have also recently taken advantage of its free weekend and evening service.Perhaps I am lucky but I have not experienced any of the constant problems of connection with either service as mentioned by other readers. I am (almost) computer illiterate and whenever I have had to talk to BT's helpline I have found them extremely courteous and helpful.Stephen Barrystephenbarrypublicity@btinternet.comThe really serious problem with BT is that they intend to   charge for their new, off-peak service by credit card only.As a disabled, often housebound guy, I depend on state benefit and don't have a credit card. I do, though, have an account with BT for my phone, and am at a loss to understand why, instead of excluding people like myself (and we are very many), they don't use their existing billing system.Ron Gravesron.graves@talk21.comHow can I describe BT Internet's &#163;9.99 service? Deplorable. Yes, I get through every time, but for the last week I haven't been able to surf the web or collect my mail. Yet they are still taking new registrations.Ian Hendersonianh67@freenetname.co.ukTV riddleThe stories about how easy it will be to email from your television set (On Digital and Sky) ignore one of the most useful applications: sending attachments. What do I do when my TV receives email with an attachment in Microsoft Word?Warren Newmanwarrennewman@dial.pipex.comEasy linksKen Bray (Review March 16) obviously hasn't grown up with networks. Surely Online knows that using MS Windows, from version 3.11 onwards, it has been possible to link PCs together into "workgroups" without hubs, additional software or kits?Files, programmes, reference CDs plus equipment such as printers and fax modems can all be shared. Only one inexpensive ISA or PCI card per computer is required plus thin-Ethernet type connecting cable. A printer doesn't need a special card, just the normal parallel, serial or USB link to one of the PCs.Gavin Blanchardgavin.blanchard@tesco.netYou've got fakeReal computer software has always been far too boring to be featured in movies (Feedback, March 16). Mail systems such as those used in You've Got Mail or Mission Impossible are faked for the cameras (like other filmed activities).Iain Nobleinoble1@compuserve.com
Do hand-helds pose a serious threat to the PC?I think there are a number of people for whom even a laptop or a portable computer is still a little too much. What they really want is quick access to information. I think that's why we're currently seeing such a wealth of people using handhelds not just for a diary or address book but for many other applications.Any new applications you'd like to see on a handheld?People want high quality sound, good quality graphics and imaging and eventually they're going to want video. I don't think that people will want to sit and watch a movie on their handheld... even though it could be technically possible. I think the wonder of this ride is that quick little burst of information.Any other favourite gadgets?My mobile is getting much more intelligent and I can now optimise my combination of the smallest phone and the right handheld. Seeing the two work together is probably my gadget of choice.How does e-commerce differ in the US and the UK?In Europe in particular I see an opportunity for m-commerce or mobile commerce . I'm a big fan ofeBayand I found that when I started accessing it via my Palm VII (only available in America) my mentality changed dramatically. I use the web-clipping application and get straight to what I want. In fact I think I'm spending a lot more money because it's so accessible. The next step is "how do I make the payment?". Sites likePayPaare very interesting because they effectively allow me to send money to anyone with an e-mail address.Is there money to be made from e-commerce?I think the companies that fail are the ones that just try and take their bricks and mortar store and put it on the internet without thinking they should work any differently.Any favourite places on the web?I'm fascinated by this whole idea ofWebvan, this idea of convenience and following my shopping habits and grocery lists. It's the kind of thing that just wouldn't have been possible before. I'm really impressed withCNet. I like this concept of being able to do the different comparison services.Mysimon.comis another of these - if I'm looking for the cheapest price for something on the net they'll bring it to me. There's alsoBarpoint.com- they take the UPC (universal programme code) of items and you put that information into your computer, either via the website or one of our mobile devices, and they come back and give you all information about that device.Do you still use a PC?I have a PC in the office and a Power Mac at home. Much as I'd like to do away with them I have a nice Dell laptop - although I do still get frustrated with them both.
Game player, vampire slayerBuffy the Vampire Slayer, the TV series starring Sarah Michelle Gellar, is being turned into a third person action adventure game by The Collective, a software developer based in California. The game will feature the main characters from the series and Buffy's haunts,    including Sunnydale High School, the cemetery, the town square, the shopping mall, and The Bronze nightclub. The game should be released this year for Sega Dreamcast, Sony PlayStation and the PC, and the first screenshots have been posted on Fox Interactive's website atwww.foxinteractive.com/buffy.Fox Interactive, a News Corporation company, has already done reasonably well with TV spin-offs including programs based on the X-Files and the Simpsons. However, its biggest hits have been Die Hard and Aliens versus Predator.Star WarsStar Wars, the massive multiplayer online game, will be developed by Verant Interactive, distributed by   LucasArts, and played via Sony Online Entertainment's site, The Station.  Star Wars Online will be a   role-playing game and will feature combat, specialised missions, and quests, says LucasArts. It will be launched next year.Diabolical stuffDiablo II, Act I, the scene: Blizzard's website. The action: the first thousand testers have just signed up for what is now the most keenly-awaited PC game - unless there are still people holding out for Ion Storm's Daikatana.Diablo II's initial testing is restricted to North America, where gamers will be able to play one of five types of character: Amazon, Barbarian, Sorceress, Necromancer, and Paladin.Blizzard's website has also revealed that StarCraft is the    most travelled title in history. Daniel T Barry put a copy of the game in his pocket before blasting off in Nasa's STS-96 Shuttle mission last year. The CD went round the earth 153 times, clocking up 3.5m miles. Seewww.blizzard.com/starcraft/sis.Vegas sounds3DO's Midnight in Vegas game, due at the end of the month, will come on two CDs: one for the Sony PlayStation, and one for an audio CD player. The game disc lets you play 23 "popular casino games", including five different kinds of poker. The audio disc, Music to Watch Games By, offers eight tunes by old crooners such as Andy Williams, Tony Bennet (Fly Me To The Moon), Vic Damone (On The Street   Where You Live) and Rosemary Clooney (Mambo Italiano). It doesn't include Viva Las Vegas performed by Bad Boy Record's first hard rock band, Fuzzbubble, but you'll get that on Fox Interactive's Die Hard Trilogy 2.Dead Pumpkinstarcraft/sis/   Bath-basedPumpkin Studioshas closed down, according to its website. The company was founded in 1996 by Nick Cook and Jim Bambra, and enjoyed success with Warzone 2100, an everyday story of post-nuclear holocaust nightmare. It closed its doors after Eidos Interactive cancelled its current project, Saboteur, "due to its projected release date and the dwindling PlayStation 1 market".
Six of the bestBuddhismwww.buddhanet.netChristianitywww.christianityonline.comHinduismwww.hindunet.orgIslamwww.musalman.comJudaismwww.jewish.com/searchSikhismwww.sikhseek.com
Videogames and leisure software now outsell videos in the UK, and the British games market is by far the biggest in Europe, according to a new report from Screen Digest and Elspa, the European Leisure Software Publishers Association.In 1999, leisure software sales were worth &#163;969m in the UK. This compares with &#163;941m for retail videos, though that does not include another &#163;461m for video rentals.British software has also done well on the export front. In 1998, exports of leisure software were worth &#163;503m, which is more than either film (&#163;427m) or television (&#163;444m), says the report.The industry is driven by the "Britsoft" creative engine, with about 250 development studios producing games. This is probably more than in the rest of Europe put together. However, some of   these studios are owned by foreign publishers, and at the publishing level, British companies have been reduced to a small minority of the industry.The major publishers are American (Electronic Arts, Microsoft, Acclaim, Activision, Hasbro etc), Japanese (Sony, Sega, Nintendo) or French (Havas, Infogrames, UbiSoft etc). Eidos and Codemasters are the only UK-owned publishers in the top 10.Home-owned publishers are important because of their tendency to source games locally, and thus support more jobs. Eidos is the leader in this respect. It owns Core Design, which programs the Lara Croft games, and has investments in another eight studios: Tigon, Corrosive, Asylum, Hothouse Holdings, Pure Entertainment, Silicon Dreams, Sports Interactive and Elixir. It also has output deals with other UK studios such as Mucky Foot, Red   Lemon, Free Radical and Looking Glass.In stark contrast, industry giants such as Sega, Nintendo, Konami, Microsoft and UbiSoft have no UK-based games developers at all, though Nintendo has a shareholding in Rare, which many believe to be the UK's best developer. Rare's games, such as Goldeneye 007 and the Donkey Kong series, are best-sellers on a world-wide basis.Gaming is also a growth industry, with both personal computers and games consoles being bought by an increasing number of households. Sales of leisure software are also expected to grow from 35 million units in 1999 to more than 52 million in 2003. However, this is partly because the market is cyclical. We are at the stage where one generation of technology, represented by the Sony PlayStation and Nintendo N64, has passed its peak, while a new generation of machines, led by the Sega   Dreamcast and Sony PlayStation 2, is just starting to get going.In 208 pages, the report provides a comprehensive analysis of the structure of the UK market and the significant players. There are also market share figures and sales projections for video games and   consoles in the main European markets up to 2003.Such projections are particularly difficult when not all the products are known (Microsoft X-Box, Nintendo Dolphin) and when the launch dates are indeterminate. The authors of Interactive Leisure Software may also have been a little unlucky with their timing, since they had to finish the report before Microsoft outlined its plans for the X-Box.Perhaps few people in the UK will argue with the suggestion that "by 2003... the PlayStation 2 will have achieved a dominant position in the marketplace". Whether   the Nintendo Dolphin, Microsoft X-Box and Sega Dreamcast come trailing behind in that order is another matter.By 2003, the report also predicts that there will be PCs with either CD-rom or DVD drives in 44% - or 11 million - British homes.It's the nature of such reports to offer numbers for things nobody knows, and hindsight will show how right or wrong they were. Either way, the breakdown of the industry and the report's well-informed commentary will make a useful contribution to the industry.
Slam dunk success for DreamcastNBA 2KSega Dreamcast &#163;39.99 Sega ***Astonishing graphics and amazing attention to detail make this the most remarkable sports simulation to be produced so far. From across a room, you might almost be watching live television, though the video game isn't quite as repetitive as the National Basketball Association original, and the scoring is slightly faster.You get 29 teams animated with 1,600 motion-captured moves, players with facial expressions, realistic referees, and a very good commentary. You can also create your own players and teams.The detail carries on through the bench into the crowd, which seems to be made up of individuals. One crosses his legs, one picks something up off the floor, one punches the air. The 28 stadiums are accurately modelled, too.There are limitations. You get only the maximum   realism in the slow-motion replays, and the players, while recognisable, are still a bit cartoony. However, the graphics are in a different league from today's familiar Sony PlayStation sims.Yes, but is the game any good? If you like basketball games, it's much the same as the rest, but better, because it's more responsive.And matches are not walkovers. Even the worst of the teams defends well, catches its passes, and rarely misses a basket or a free throw - tough if you try to steal the ball and keep giving away fouls. Your passes often seem to go astray, too.Taking free throws seems difficult, going on impossible, but presumably there's a knack to it. Anyone who gets good at free throws is likely to be popular in the four-player version of the game and could probably charge appearance money.Playing a full season and winning the play-offs is going to take a very long time, even if you cut the quarters to (say) three minutes, so this game should be great value... if you like basketball. But if you don't follow the NBA, it's a very expensive graphics demo.  (JS)Ultima is the ultimate let-downUltima IX: AscensionPC CD-rom &#163;49.29 Electronic Arts *What a pedigree. The Ultima series has offered some of the most original, many-layered, immersive role-playing games that ever destroyed a social life. Twenty years on, the world of Britannia is rich in colour and detail, with a complex history that makes compelling reading.What presentation. Ascension arrives in a striking, glossy gatefold box, with clear, evocatively   written literature, Britannia-themed tarot cards, and a beautiful cloth map of the region.What ambition. Ultima IX promises all the quest-solving, beastie-bashing, spell-casting   fun of previous instalments, but in full 3D. Graphical innovations include day and night cycles, accurate weather effects, and real-life physics. The adventure itself allows you to interact with more than 200 characters, cast 45 spells and pit your wits against 60 types of monster.And oh, what a let-down. On a high-spec machine, with one of the few brands of graphics card that the game claims to support, Ultima IX crashed after one minute of play. And again. And again.Tinkering with the set-up bore no fruit. Ditto for the display drivers. A visit to the unofficial technical support noticeboard (the official board closed a month ago) turned up hundreds of eerily   similar inquiries but no useful answers.It wasn't even clear whether downloading the 64MB patch would help; with no version information on the box, in the program files or in the game, it was impossible to tell which release I had.One last attempt to play resulted in another crash, which corrupted my system files and effectively crippled my computer. The manifold bugs that afflicted the US release are still biting.Of all the immense, lavish, perilous world of Ultima IX, all I will ever see is the inside of the main character's bedroom. Well, at least the map will make a passable tea towel.  (AB)
If nothing else, the destruction of the Iridium telephone network's $5 billion constellation of satellites will make a spectacular fireworks display. Four by four, the 66 satellites will be nudged towards the earth from their orbits 485 miles up, to meet a fiery end in the earth's atmosphere.Only a late rescue bid from a consortium of US investors, which wants to use the network to transmit data, could halt the scuttling. Otherwise the very public dismantling of one of the most glamorous and ambitious technology projects of its day will go ahead.Iridium's day was almost certainly before even one of those satellites had been launched. On 26 June 1990, Motorola executive director Donald Bartram unveiled what he promised would be "the next major milestone in global communications" allowing "any person on the planet to communicate with any other."It was a bold dream, a multi-billion dollar bet on the quality of the project's own technology and the paucity of competing earthbound alternatives. It also relied on a public so desperate to keep in touch, wherever they were in the world, they would pay thousands for handsets and $9 a minute for calls.In the end, Iridium's defeat on all three fronts was resounding. Despite startup costs of $7bn and a huge marketing spend, there were only around 55,000 people connected to the worldwide network before it was switched off at midnight on Friday.The end had come earlier that day in New York, when lawyer William Perlstein, representing Iridium, told a bankruptcy court: "We do not have a qualified bid".With that confirmation that no saviour had been found, despite approaches to 80 firms, it was guaranteed that Iridium would pass into the history books as one of the greatest business debacles ever, finally folding under debts of $4.4 bn.Yet it all seemed such a good plan at first. The idea for   a global satellite telephone network came to the wife of Motorola executive Bary Bertiger in the sun-kissed Caribbean in 1985, after she found she could not place a call to the United States.It took five years of research to find a way to bring satellite communications to handsets which were not connected to immensely powerful transmitters. The solution was a large number of low-flying satellites, which would collectively give blanket coverage of the globe. Iridium was launched, with its name borrowed from the element iridium which has the atomic number 77, the number of satellites originally planned.When its service was finally launched in November 1998, Iridium had only 66 satellites, but the world - and especially mobile communications - had moved on during the years of launches, building and haggling between partners which Iridium had to overcome before going live.While, in 1990, large handsets and huge call costs were still the norm for mobiles, by 1998 mobiles had shrunk and the costs of ownership plunged to the extent they were almost ubiquitous.To add to Iridium's problems, the GSM standard had been adopted in many parts of the world, and most major cities were well served by terrestrial mobile telephone companies. The worldwide agreement on UTMS as the next global mobile standard was a further blow.Iridium's technology also appeared laughably old fashioned in the fast-paced mobile world. At a time when the most fashionable mobile handset was the cigarette packet-sized StarTac (made, ironically, by Motorola) Iridium's handsets were brick sized - throwbacks to the early days of mobile communication in the 1980s.The giant handsets didn't work particularly well, either, as journalists and aid workers discovered last year when the Kosovo crisis erupted. They found there was no signal at all indoors, and that even outside conversations would be cut short after a few minutes.   Sailors - one of the big niche markets targeted by Iridium - found that they lost their signal if rigging moved in the wind and obstructed the line between phone and satellite.Those failings did not deter lone oarsman Jo Le Guen, 52, who bought an Iridium phone to take with him as he rowed 4,500 miles across the south Pacific to raise awareness of ocean pollution.The father of five planned to use his phone as his primary means of communication, useful for discussing the violent weather scouring the south Pacific with his router in Paris.Le Guen set off on his epic journey on February 3 from   Wellington, New Zealand, more than a month before Motorola's warning that Iridium would cut customers off on Friday 17th if a buyer could not be found.As Online went to press, it was unclear how long his Iridium phone would continue to work: the company says its satellite network will continue to work "for some time" for vulnerable clients, but that earth based gateways, run by separate companies, could choose to shut down, cutting Le Guen off.Le Guen's team already fears the worst for its satellite link, and is frantically searching for a ship which might pass near to Le Guen's nine metre boat, in order to pass on a new mobile, supplied by Iridium's erstwhile rival GlobalStar."We are still able to talk to Jo," says Phillipe Tuffigo, a member of Le Guen's Paris-based support team, earlier this week. "But we are not sure how much longer the phone will work."The phone has proved invaluable, says Tuffigo, because force 8-9 gales and mountainous seas have made it too difficult for Le Guen to climb his mast and set up an antenna for an alternative means of communication."Iridium have said they will continue for a short while, but May is far too long a time away," says Tuffigo.Meanwhile, back in New York, the post-mortems on one of the world's biggest business failures continue. Some analysts are drawing parallels between today's internet boom and the huge optimism for Iridium when it first launched.Others say Motorola just bet too much, too early, on one technology. "They zigged and the world zagged," Paul Saffo, director of the Institute of the Future, told the New York Times last week.Others appear to be in denial about the viability of satellite telephony, despite the technological problems and poor takeup. Motorola   insisted until the end that a market of up to 40m subscribers would exist by 2005.And some industry observers are now looking ahead to the launches of other satellite technologies from companies like GlobalStar, Teledesic, SkyBridge and Spaceway, which plan to beam internet services to businesses and households, and asking how they will fare.They point to the fact that these new companies, just as Iridium did five years ago, are now facing formidable terrestrial competition, this time from cable and traditional telephone companies. Their systems have moved into place while the satellite operators attempt to complete their networks in space.Despite public shows of confidence, and claims that Motorola's great idea was simply before its time, directors could be forgiven for not wanting to watch as the Iridium dream plunges back to earth, a few bits at a time.
CybercrimeThe US Justice Department has finally opened itsCybercrimesite  and posted the official version of the President's Working Group's much-criticised report, The Electronic Frontier: The Challenge of Unlawful Conduct Involving The Use Of The Internetwww.cybercrime.gov/unlawful.htmorwww.usdoj.gov/criminal/cybercrime/unlawful.htm. The DoJ site also has a section forkids.Blow upPakistan's nuclear weapons programme has been exposed by theFederation of American Scientists, which posted satellite images of installations  just ahead of President Clinton's visit to the region. The FAS website has also published satellite images of North Korea's missile testing facilities, with more to come.Toilet humourBR&gt;    "Ever wondered what a museum dedicated entirely to the history of toilets would be like? If that peculiar question ever crossed your mind, seek professional help!" says Dr Bindeshwar Pathak, the founder of Sulabh International Social Service Organisation, a pioneering voluntary organisation working in the field of sanitation. He is responsible for the Sulabh International Museum Of Toilets in New Delhi, India, which now has a fine website atwww.sulabhtoiletmuseum.org.Internet pawnGarry Kasparov, the world's best chess player, has launchedwww.KasparovChess.com, and plans to take the company public and become a net millionaire. Users should not type www.Kasparov.com by mistake. That's a site the authors say they were fraudulently induced to create in 1995-96, and is the property of American Computer Science Association Inc. Those with bookmarks forwww.club-kasparov.com, hosted by IBM during Kasparov's battles with the Deep Blue chess computer, will be redirected to the new site.Book plugMalcolm Gladwell, a staff writer for New Yorker magazine, has written The Tipping Point, a book which tries to explain why and how things become fads or "social epidemics". You can read some samples on the author's site atwww.gladwell.comand yes, there's a link to Amazon.com.SymbolicTAFKAP (The Artist Formerly Known As Prince) has launched a new website to promote his personal purpleness and his New Power Generation record label atwww.npgonlineltd.com. It has sections for groovez, vizualz and newz with a discography and various clips, plus a freedom section about artists and their struggles with beastly record companies. U will b glad 2 know that fanz can still buy NPG merchandise fromwww.1800newfunk.comas b4, butwww.Love4Oneanother.comhas been reduced to One Song, which is mostly a sermon.Irish portalIreland has a new portal withOnline.ie(no relation), which is based in Dublin but has international ambitions. It is acquiringIrishAbroad.comin San Francisco and plans to open offices in New York and Boston. The freelance technology writer and Guardian Online contributor Karlin Lillington will edit an IT section.Too personalThe letters men send in response to internet dating ads have a certain fascination, rather like roadkill. Lorina has collected some of the best (worst) atwww.waytoopersonal. com, and have scathing comments attached. The site also offers advice on what/what not to write if you're looking for a date online.ShockingBR&gt;    One day, probably next week, Flash-soaked sites will look as quaint as the Brighton Pavilion. With luck, andNow4/www.andNow4.com, a portal so named because it offers "something completely different", will be launched in the nick of time. Users will be able to enjoy its small number of useful links before the baroque pointlessness of the animations drives them to Yahoo!HotbarArrogance sometimes pays. Go to the Hotbar site atwww.hotbar.comand, without asking first, it will download a plug-in that lets you add colourful "skins" to Microsoft's Internet Explorer. The site is only a couple of months old and already has about 10,000 skins available - mainly because Hotbar lets people design their own. A Netscape Navigator version is still under development.New and notedSightseeingwww.sightseeing.co.ukoffers both searchable links and maps. An events calendar is planned. Sole fans will find most popular brands of footwear on sale at/www.sightseeing.co.uk.  Gardeners are eagerly awaiting the opening of a new site atwww.crocus.co.uk.
An editorial in the Times concerning new technology as social force, bristles with otherwise unaccountable fears. The new technology is accused of enlarging the scope for crime and readers are invited to linger over squalid details of profiteering and corruption that have accompanied the boom in the new technology.The article goes on to ponder the military potential and discusses the likely impact of the new technology on the working classes. The editorial, dated August 15, 1898, is about the bicycle and is particularly concerned with its use by the criminal fraternity. Since poor people will now be able to cycle to where rich people live, readers can only shudder at the lawlessness to come.It's a natural human tendency to view new technologies in the light of existing knowledge, and therefore to project fears on to them. In 1299, the citizens of Florence decided to abolish the use of Arabic numerals in commercial transactions because of the clear (as they saw it) danger of fraud that the use of such numerals would create.After all, it was difficult to amend a figure in Roman numerals by adding another digit whereas Arabic numerals plainly invite criminals to do just that. In other words, putting XC after IX isn't the same as changing "9" to "99".The effect of the Florentine legislation is evident: none whatsoever. Business soon evolved tools to enable it to exploit the obvious efficiencies of the Arabic system while mitigating the fear of fraud (by adding a horizontal line after numbers, for example, just as we right "only" after the sum on a cheque).Is the Times's panic about bicycling burglars so different from ours about digital drug dealers? Is the Florentine's fear of counterfeit ciphers so different from ours about cyberspace credit card fraud? Is the net really an expanding pit of nameless evils, or are we worrying about the "dark side" of the net simply because it is new?We shouldn't get too carried away with the idea that the net   is going to be an anarchic, wild frontier just because we don't fully understand it.In particular, we have to be careful not to plan future commercial, legal and regulatory structures on the basis that things are going to be just like they used to be, but with the net in place of the phone/TV/road or whatever.I think that journalists must be partly to blame. Recent figures from the US National Consumers' Association show that consumers are 30 times less likely to be the victims of credit card fraud than they think, and this must be because of the deluge of newspaper stories about internet-related card fraud.Now, obviously, it happens and in some cases it is serious-look at the recent example of CD Universe where thousands of credit card numbers were looted from a poorly-protected customer database-but it needs to be kept in context. Cheque fraud in the "real world" is higher than card fraud on the internet (as, for that matter, is card fraud in the real world in absolute terms) but somehow it doesn't get the attention.It seems to me that some journalists yield to the sensational, because the technology is complicated   and (frankly) not that interesting. Does the general reader know or care how the credit card system works?The sensationalism leads to misplaced emphasis in reporting. One of the examples that sticks in my mind is the case of the "Citibank hacker" Vladimir Levin, which was widely reported as "the first bank raid ever carried out over the internet", despite the fact that his crime did not involve the internet in any way. Any breach of computer security, for whatever reason, has apparently become an internet crime.There are real dangers associated with the net, but they're not drug dealing, money laundering or child pornography. These were all widespread long before the net came along and, if anything, the police should be able to obtain the same efficiencies from using the net as the criminals have.In cyberspace no one knows you're a dog but then no one knows you're from the FBI either, so the dynamics ought to balance out. The real dangers are in the abuses that will depend on the characteristics of new technology and therefore we haven't thought of them yet.I'm not smart enough to know what these are, but I'd guess that they'll include the mass violation of privacy, the mechanised abuse of personal data, crimes that depend on unbreakable anonymity (such as Jim Bell's now-infamous "assassination politics" concept) and identity theft.So, what needs to be done? Probably nothing! It seems to me that the outlines of a secure net infrastructure-based on strong encryption, public key infrastructure and ubiquitous smart card access - are discernible.We should be optimistic about the ability of this environment to link people, to stimulate trade and to spread prosperity. We shouldn't be pessimistic just because it's new and we don't understand it.As Alfred North Whitehead (1861-1947) observed "it is the business of the future to be dangerous".
August 12 1995 was a Saturday much like any other in the urban sprawl of Arlington, Virginia. Except that an alert went out over email and on Usenet groups to say that 10 people - including two federal marshals, two computer technicians, one a former FBI agent, and several attorneys - were raiding the home of former Scientologist Arnaldo Lerma.Leading the raid was Helena Kobrin, a senior lawyer representing the Church of Scientology. She was well known on the newsgroup alt.religion.scientology , due to her frequent postings which insisted on the deletion of files she claimed contained the Church's copyrighted materials. Another was Earle Cooney, a Church lawyer who chaired the board of Boston university.Emails and postings flew back and forth, saying that the raiding party was seizing Lerma's computer, backups, disks, modem and scanner. A frequent Usenet poster and critic of his former brethren, Lerma was distraught. Many of his personal and business files were kept on his PC. Told that his hardware would be returned the following Monday, he was still waiting weeks later.There had been other raids in the US and further afield, including on an anonymous remailer run by Johan Helsingius in Finland, as the Church pursued anyone it felt was posting "secret" materials.Such confrontations are continuing - albeit in more subtle form - as pro- and anti-cultists struggle for control of the "truth" over the net.Although a quick search on the web reveals dozens of sites discussing the term, "cult", few actually agree what a "cult" is. According to the Ontario-based group Religious Tolerance, there are at least eight different definitions, generally with negative connotations and often promoted by those in the anti-cult movement or the media.There is evidence to suggest that cults or "new religious movements" (NRMs), as they are sometimes called, are moving to the net. On his religious movements website,   Jeffrey Hadden, sociology professor of the university of Virginia, says: "The internet does provide an opportunity to immerse oneself - however deeply one may choose - in the subcultural world of new religious movements."At a time when research has shown that 70% to 75% of US citizens believe in extra-terrestrials and UFOs, numerous NRMs have grown up surrounding this area, perhaps the best known being the late L Ron Hubbard's Church of Scientology. There are now even "anti-UFO" cults, according to Professor Irving Hexham of the university of Calgary, who runs an NRM discussion group and web site, "based on cosmic theories that threaten their version of Christianity."Announcing one's "end times belief" on the web has become a standard practice, adds Brenda Brasher, of Mount Union College in the US. When members of the group Concerned Christians were arrested in Israel two years ago - suspected of plotting violent acts to "hasten" the coming of the Messiah - one Israeli millennial specialist was shocked that the group did not have a website. "How can any self-respecting millennialist group not be on the web?" he exclaimed.The most shocking example of this type of web use was the mass suicide of the Heaven's Gate community (39 well-educated individuals) three years ago. They believed they were transporting themselves to a space craft tailing the   Hale-Bopp comet. Dwelling communally in a small mansion in Rancho Santa Fe, California, the group supported itself designing web sites. When Hale-Bopp appeared, the Heaven's Gate community took it as a sign that their class was ready to "graduate". On their home page the words "Red Alert" flashed. The page said that Hale-Bopp was the marker for which they had been waiting. After their suicide on March 25 1997, visitors to the Heaven's Gate site found an epitaph written by one of the community, a poignant plea to the world to understand what they had done.Many of the Christian evangelical/ charismatic movements use the web to attract newcomers. John Campbell, webmaster for the Manchester-based Jesus Army explains: "Our aim on the internet is to communicate the unchanging Christian message in a modern manner. I'm sure if Jesus was around today he'd use the internet!" The site runs a message board that Campbell says attracts a lot of good natured discussion, and a prayer request service.On the Church of Scientology's slick official site you can take a personality test online (although you have to meet someone in person to receive the results) and visit links to more than 15,000 Scientologists. Said one British opponent of Scientology: "The battle between Scientology and its opponents has been absolutely transformed by the net."At one point the newsgroup alt.religion.scientology was more popular than alt.supermodels, he jokes, and became the key battleground. As writer William Shaw, author of Spying In Guru Land, explains, the main reason that the Church of Scientology has a large internet presence is the high net profile of its opponents. "The CoS is very proficient at the internet now, but I believe that was only responding to very successful anti-Scientology sites on the web in the early 90s."One of the Church's US lawyers tried to get news servers to drop the alt.religion.scientology newsgroup, which not only failed, but created an outcry online. The newsgroup was and is flooded with thousands of excerpts from a Scientology text. The Church also bought up the Cult Awareness Network (CAN) after it went bankrupt in 1996. "One of the doctrines of 'survival' of L Ron Hubbard &#91;the Church's founder and a science fiction writer&#93;," says Shaw, "was to attack anybody who attacked him. This was perfect for the medium. The internet is famous for its flame wars."It's easy to have contempt for opponents here. Any religion that thrives on being attacked - as Scientology does - will thrive on the net."Much of the background to the war between Scientologists and their detractors can be seen at Operation Clambake set up by Andreas Heldal-Lund in Norway in 1996. Reading an article about Scientology, then seeing some of its posted teachings scared him, he says and led him to join a growing band of anti-Scientologists spread around the world.His site includes many examples. One of the incidents he highlights was last year when Amazon.com dropped Jon Atack's book A Piece Of Blue Sky, which was critical of Scientology's teachings. There was a massive outcry from netizens and free speech advocates, and Amazon promptly reversed its decision.   The site also outlines how, in 1998, Scientologists were issued with filtering software to prevent them visiting anti-Scientology sites.Roger Gonnet, an anti-Scientology activist running a web site based in France, says: "My two sites were attacked three times each, the first with three attorneys in a row, attacking my ISP too... they even tried to attack under the guise of 'violation of trade secrets' which is a strong thing for a 'religion'.""For many years, the Church of Scientology has taken action to protect its scriptures from abuse," says a spokesperson. "It is in pursuit of its First Amendment right   of free religious exercise that the Church has brought legal action to enforce existing copyright and trade secrets laws on the internet."Many of the most visible web presences surrounding cults and NRMs seem to host "anti" organisations. Sites such as the Cult Information Centre include definitions of a cult and descriptions of "mind control" techniques. The American Family Foundation is one of the main anti-cult groups in the US, and houses a huge site. Triumphing Over London Cults specifically targets the International Churches of Christ in great detail, and features testimonies of for mer members, audio recordings of leaders and links.Another site,www.cyberpass.net/truth/essay, discusses the experience of "survivors" of Siddha Yoga, while atwww.trancenet.org/moonism, Ingo Michehl talks of his experiences as a student member of the Moonies. Walkaway outlines how fundamentalist Christians can leave their groups, whilewww.ex-cult.orgtalks about life after being in a cult. You can even find exit counsellors and so-called cult "experts" online (such as Rick Ross).Shaw asks: "Are new religious movements using the internet to disseminate their message? I think they're remarkably quiet   on the internet, as it goes. I don't think people who are seriously interested in winning souls are that into it."He says the anti-cult groups need and utilise the net most effectively: "People in cults don't need 'virtual' communities. They've got their own virtual communities in the cults they've joined. But people who've left cults are often desperate to recreate the experience they've left... however hostile they are to the religion they were in. They joined cults because they wanted to save the world from evil. They join anti-cult groups to do the same thing. The web provides the perfect opportunity."Web addressesReligious Tolerancewww.religioustolerance.orgProfessor Jeffrey Haddenhttp://cti.itc.virginia.edu/~jkh8x/soc257Professor Irving Hexhamwww.ucalgary.ca/~nurelwebHeavens gatehttp://levelabovehuman.orgJesus Armywww.jesus.org.ukChurch of Scientologywww.scientology.orgRoger Gonnethttp://home.worldnet.fr/gonnet/indexH.htmOperation Clambakewww.xenu.netCult Information Centrewww.xenu.net/cicThe American Family Foundation anti-cult groupwww.csj.orgTriumphing Over London Cultswww.ftech.net/~hamragWalkawaywww.ifas.org/waLife after cultswww.ex-cult.orgExit counsellor Rick Rosswww.rickross.com
Shares inLastminute.comslumped below their issue price yesterday amid concerns about the loss-making retailer's heady valuation.Lastminute shares fell 62.5p to 320p, 157.5p below last Tuesday's closing price when the shares were floated. The company, which in the last quarter generated turnover of &#163;409,000 and made an operating loss of &#163;6m, is now valued at &#163;481m, compared to a high of &#163;845m on its first day.The latest slide coincided with the first day of unconditional dealing, when many private investors who had bought shares in the hope of a quick profit were able to trade them. Instead they were nursing a paper loss. The issue was 40 times oversubscribed and   small investors were only issued with 35 shares each at 380p. Even before dealing fees are taken into account those who sold at yesterday's close price lost &#163;21 on a &#163;133 investment.The end of Lastminute's short honeymoon with investors coincided with a heavy sell-off of technology stocks in London and on the US Nasdaq market. Last night the FTSE's Techmark 100 index closed off 291.8 points at 4585.74.Advisers to Lastminute yesterday denied it had been over-hyped and over-valued. They emphasised the potential long-term benefits.One adviser compared Lastminute's performance with that of telecoms groupsColtandOrangeand internet companiesFreeserveandQXL. All four floated at a premium then slipped below the issue price. They now trade significantly above the float price.The early performance of Lastminute shares is likely embarrass broker Morgan Stanley, which employed star US internet analyst Mary Meeker to co-author research on the company. Lastminute's founders, Brent Hoberman and Martha Lane Fox, appointed the US investment bank largely because it had floated only one internet business that fell below its issue price.Morgan Stanley is understood to have supported the share price by buying shares.
The government yesterday moved to plug the shortage of highly skilled IT workers in Britain by announcing a relaxation on work restrictions constraining firms from hiring foreigners.The chancellor said incentives were needed to help Britain catch up with America in e-commerce as swiftly as possible."We are determined to lead in e-commerce and the internet," Mr Brown said. "We are introducing new rules for work permits in areas of highly skilled information technology where there is a global shortage."He did not do into detail about how the work permit laws would be changed, but his move was welcomed by technology firms and industry.Robbie Vann-Adibe, co-founder of US web services firm Viant, said: "We have stressed the need for this pretty strongly in our discussions with the government. We haven't said it prevents us from doing business here but if they are really serious about making the UK a leader in the e-commerce space you need to do this."Viant, worth $1.7bn (&#163;1.1bn) on the Nasdaq market, set up its British arm last year and currently employs about 30 staff locally. "It means that importing that help from operations overseas allows the knowledge transfer to local staff," Mr Vann-Adibe said.India has a large pool of skilled and cheap IT professionals. However, cumber some and bureaucratic laws have much it difficult to recruit staff from there. Firms have also looked at Eastern European countries from where to source IT staff.The government's decision to review the rules comes after months of consultation with British technology firms, recruitment houses and industry bodies who were demanding that it be made easier to hire.The move follows last month's decision by the German government to allow thousands of IT staff into the country on long term visas.Philip Collins, a PricewaterhouseCoopers partner specialising in internet firms, said the government's decision had partly been forced by the lack of economic or political boundaries in e-commerce."This just reflects the way the economy has had to adjust in the same way that businesses have had to adjust to the internet," he said. "Restrictions are coming off business and transactions costs are becoming cheaper so that means the rest of economy has to change to match that."The number of work permit applications has grown 60% to 80,000 in the past five years. However, it is estimated by the National Computer Centre that up to 100,000 vacancies exist in the IT sector. In Europe, there the numbers are forecast to be higher around 500,000 growing to possibly 1.2m in the next few years.Britain's universities are said to not be generating the number of employees in this field to meet such an appetite.
A group of American private investors yesterday made a last minute attempt to rescue the $5bn (&#163;3.3bn) satellite telephone service Iridium, which was yesterday forced into liquidation.Iridium, which has Motorola as a shareholder and backer, was set a deadline of last Friday by the court to attract a buyer for its assets which include 66 satellites.The company, which was widely regarded to have suffered from poor marketing, high charges and expensive, heavy handsets, failed to live up to the promise of vast mobile communities hooked up to large satellite networks.It failed to attract a buyer and it was only yesterday that Merit Studios, a US software and e-commerce group, emerged as a possible white knight.Merit sent an email to Iridium's lawyers saying it represented a group of private investors who wanted to use the satellite system to create an additional transmission network for data and the internet.Merit, which would rename the company Meridium, proposes to collect a fee from message senders for the use of the satellite service.New shares would be issued to Iridium's creditors, representing 30% of the company, as well as receiving 20% of the new profits for as long as it required to pay back Iridium's debts.All Iridium shareholders would also get 30% of the new company while the private investors who are prepared to   back the rescue would get 10% for investing &#163;65m.Randy Broukman, Iridium's chief operating officer, said he was "deeply saddened" by the court's ruling which will involved destroying the group's 66 satellites when they are sent back into the earth's atmosphere to burn up."I particularly regret the effect this will have on our customers," Mr Broukman said.Iridium, set up in 1998 to provide a satellite mobile service anywhere in the world, has 55,000 customers. The company failed to meet subscriber numbers even after after slashing prices. It went into a voluntary bankruptcy in August.Iridium thought it had the support in February of a group of investors, led by American telecommunications pioneer Craig McCaw, who agreed to provide &#163;49m in interim financing for Iridium. The proposal was withdrawn.Mr McCaw has long shared plans with his friend Bill Gates, the Microsoft chairman, to develop a network of satellites to connect mobile internet users. He switched his support ICO Global Communications, based in Hammersmith, west London, late last year when he joined in a &#163;1.2bn rescue for the company.Motorola said despite the collapse of Iridium it believed that satellite technology would continue to succeed. The company provided a list of satellite service providers including American Mobile Satellite Corporation, Globalstar and Inmarsat for Iridium's customers to switch to.
What is your car?It's a sculpture called Mini, Escort that features a Mini magnified by 30% parked next to a normal sized Escort.How did the idea come about?I wanted to swap the scales of two objects. A car has a standard shape but with lots of variables to play with. I wanted people to recognise the shape but also realise that something has changed. You've got to decide if it's the Mini that's different or the Escort.Why did you choose these cars?I was interested in archetypal English cars. The mini is an icon of the 20th century and the Escort is the 80s boy racer.What is your Mini made of?Aluminium, Perspex, steel and some real car parts.Does it work?No, although everyone wants it to - but it's just an image. You can push it forward and back on its wheels. Inside it has a steering wheel, mirror and a magic tree that illuminates at night.How long did it take to make?Eight weeks. It was made by Mick from MC Hammering in Kent. I completed the finishing of dirt and rust. I didn't want it to look like a prototype, but rather as if it had been used. It's weathered - like it's been round the block.What reaction have you had to it?People say dumb things like "That's a big mini"or "Is it on steroids?"Where is it?It's in London for two months then goes on tour to Ipswich and then the Norwich.How much did it cost to make?&#163;8,000 - co-funded by two galleries.What will happen to it after the tour?I'm hoping to sell it to a car collector so the galleries can get some of their money back.Have you worked with cars before?My next piece, opening in April, is a van parked in a living room. With this work I'll be challenging the idea of placement and context.Do you have a roadworthy car?I had to get rid of my last car - some sort of Renault - because the engine was falling inwards. It was completely lethal.What would be your dream car to own?A new Volkswagen Beetle because of its amazing design.Who would be the perfect passenger for the Mini, Escort?Someone 30% bigger than the average person.&#149; Elizabeth Wright's Mini, Escort has been shortlisted for the Beck's Futures 2000 prize and can currently be seen at the ICA. Details: 0171 930 3647
No one expects small family cars to look like Ferraris, but it seems that even practical middle-Englanders drew the line at the original Nissan Almera. Despite being robust, roomy and reliable it didn't sell - it was just too ugly.Whether the new Almera can match the VW Golf's elegant conservatism or the Ford Focus's wilful wackiness is a matter of taste. Nissan make much of what they call their "super-utility" interior concept, which in practice adds up to endless cubby holes, cup holders and other plastic addenda. It's an anal retentive's delight. There's a special place for your sunglasses, your tissues, your briefcase and even your takeaway - although I've always found that the passenger's footwell suits all of the above.Nissan have also made the Almera's interior much posher than before, but the plush new armchairs take up rear legroom. The old Almera was really roomy in the back, but our 11-year-old daughter was complaining bitterly before we'd even left the drive - a new family record - because I had the driver's seat right back and didn't realise just how short of space she was.However, I soon found that the new Almera is as enjoyable to drive as the old one. And despite having less room in the back than the old one, it certainly isn't cramped when compared with the other cars in its class - although it's no longer a class leader. I would pay the extra &#163;500 for the 1.8 over the 1.5, because it is still good for almost 38mpg on the combined cycle. And if you cover a high annual mileage then the 2.2 litre diesel will be well worth another &#163;800 over the 1.8.When it comes to equipment levels, if you want a full suite of airbags and ABS brakes - not to mention air-con for comfort - then you'll have to go for the "SE" trim level. The pick-of-the-range is the 1.8 SE 5-door, listed at &#163;13,900, and in comparison with the competition that's really excellent value - with Nissan's watertight three year warranty.If the new Almera wasn't such good value I'd have to conclude that while it's better than before it's still not good enough to dethrone VW Golf or Ford Focus. But at such competitive prices the Almera has to be a real contender, and if you're buying a car with your own money then you really should put it on your shopping list.
Quote of the week"The first time I drove a supercar - a Porsche 928 - I managed to go just a mile before ramming it into some crash barriers at a place with no vowels in Wales."Jeremy Clarkson, The SunOut of FocusFord is recalling 100,000 new Focus models over possible engine faults, it announced on Friday. The problem - on Zetec models fitted with 1.8 and 2 litre petrol engines, and 20,000 of the 1.6 litre engine model - causes oil leaks and temporary power loss. Not a great week for British motor manufacturing then.Jam tomorrowBy 2005 the average driver is in this country is going to be spending over a fortnight a year stuck in traffic jams, says the RAC. Increasing congestion means we're spending more time behind the wheel - and that's not good for the nation's health. Long periods of driving can cause stress, road rage and high blood pressure. And it also means more pigging out on junk food snacks. Scary.
It is a corporate  remake of  The Empire Strikes Back. Just 10 days ago a clutch of new technology stars soared into the &eacute;lite of the FTSE 100 index. Since then, the shares of Freeserve, Psion and Kingston Communications have plummeted by more than a third, and even Baltimore Technology has lost more than 10 per cent of its value.That has been mirrored by a revival in the fortunes of those who made way for the upstarts - bastions of the old economy such as Imperial Tobacco, Hanson and even bread and sugar producer Associated British Foods, whose shares recovered by as much as 15 per cent.That trend was repeated across the markets in both Britain and the US. In London, the Techmark 100 index of leading technology stocks is more than 15 per cent down on its peak, while Nasdaq, its US equivalent, has dropped more than 5 per cent. The FTSE 100 - which does not officially welcome the new entrants until tomorrow - and the Dow Jones surged.So far, the decline in technology shares is little more   than a puff of air escaping from the balloon: even after last week's fall, the Nasdaq has doubled in little over a year; Techmark has done the same in less than six months.But is it a portent of a bigger shake-out to come? There are still few commentators prepared to predict that a technology crash will happen, let alone when it will come - although practically everyone agrees they look dramatically over-valued. Likewise, although everyone agrees there are real bargains among shares in the old economy, no one is expecting them to power ahead.Statistics from Warburg Dillon Reed illustrate how the new economy has come to dominate the market: stripping out technology stocks, the FTSE 100 index has fallen by more than 20 per cent in the past decade, most of that decline in the past three years.'The gap between old and new economy stocks is now too stretched,' said Steve Russell, strategist with HSBC. 'But remember that the technology revolution is for real. We recommend that people switch from the broad-brush approach of thinking, if its technology you have got to   have it, and get into the winners and out of the losers.'He admits that, like everyone else, he has no idea who these will be - and even if he did, they would already be on stratospheric valuations.'The best guide is to look for companies with barriers to entry. On the Internet, there are none. In software and telecoms, there are strong barriers.''Vodafone and perhaps Sema do have a chance of justifying their valuations.'Ian Scott of Lehman Brothers thinks these stratospheric valuations have put the British market out of line with the US. 'Nasdaq is up 16 per cent so far this year, while the &#91;similar&#93; European Neuermarkt has risen 76 per cent. It has not been appreciated how much bigger the rotation &#91;from old to new economy stocks&#93; has been in Europe compared with the US.'He points to specific sectors, such as telecoms - where European shares have jumped by 26.5 per cent so far this year, compared with a 7.1 per cent fall in the US - and media, which has almost doubled here but fallen by a quarter in the US. He believes there could be some selling of   new economy stock, such as Reuters, which has risen 70 per cent this year, far faster than any of its US peers. Some attribute the decline in technology stocks to the flotation of lastminute.com. Despite scepticism in the City, it was comfortably subscribed, but those who bought hoping for a quick profit were disappointed as the shares fell sharply during the week.'It is unlikely that either institutions or private investors will see it as a one -way bet any longer,' said HSBC's Russell.Dissatisfaction with the lastminute.com flotation, coupled with share price weakness, has already produced casualties. Financial Objects, another technology company, has scrapped a flotation planned for next week.Last week's flurry of interest in old-economy stocks went only a little way to reversing more than year of declines in their shares. But analysts warn that not all cheap stocks are bargains.Michael O'Sullivan of Warburg Dillon Reed points to companies with consistently good results and strong positions in their markets, such as GKN, the engineer, CRH and   BAe.He likes technology stocks but says: 'As for Freeserve and lastminute.com, we say waitaminute.com.'HSBC's Russell looks for industries unlikely to be changed by the Internet , such as life assurance, drinks and food firms: 'It is difficult to see how the Internet can stop people eating and drinking.'
