The thickets of camera-toting Japanese visitors that were once a feature of every tourist site are a dying breed. They are being replaced by a new generation who have ditched their Nikons for cameraphones and are peering into their handsets for travel guidance.The subject of their contemplation? GPS-enabled, location-pertinent travel guides dished out on the same handset they use at home. They will be perusing the same type of advice we in the west can already retrieve from a chip or download wirelessly on our phones - street navigation, restaurant guides or weather reports. The difference is that the Japanese versions have GPS (global positioning system): the phones know where they are.Two huge industries, IT and tourism, are getting excited about the marriage of satellite location systems and travel guides. It means hefty travel books will soon get the heave-ho, according to travel writer Adam Katz. All the savvy traveller will need is a toothbrush and a mobile."In the very near future we will ask our phones if there are any recommended Italian restaurants within 100 metres. The phone will lead us on walking tours of Paris telling us about each historical site as we stroll by," he says. "You don't have to be online - you just need to make one call when you arrive in a city and download all the data."We are already halfway there. Time Out has more than 100 city guides available for downloading to a mobile device, all abbreviated from its travel books and web guides. But such services are not the end of the story, says David Pepper, of Time Out's web-based services division."We are interested in the mobile space as developments for the mobile accelerate. PDAs have failed in this area but Flash and Java could be used to make better content. Location-based services (LBS) and the internet are not the only choices." Nor will the mobile make the guidebook obsolete, he says, as there are still issues with battery life and usability. Perfect companionBut ask the Japanese, particularly the young, who are now reading full-length novels on their mobiles and they may respond: "A book? What use is that?"Seduced long ago by the mobile voice, internet and MP3 players, Japanese mobile users are used to turning to their "ketais" for travel news, maps, train time-tables , restaurant and city guides. Now that a GPS utility has come along in the form of navi-guides and teamed up with translation software, Japanese mobile companies such as Vodafone Japan see the mobile as the ultimate travel companion.Vodafone's Navi GPS navigation service enables customers to check their location, search for information on the surrounding area and find the best routes to destinations. And this is not just at home. Japanese tourists can see what their mobile does for them abroad using Vodafone's service, which, they claim, uses the first network-assisted GPS handset usable on roaming networks. No more poring over maps.Tell the device where you want to go and it will work out where you are and give you spoken or graphic guidance to your destination. The Japanese have been allowing visitors to do this for more than a year.In Tokyo, Kyoto and Osaka, visitors can rent the latest mobile handsets, capable of translating spoken Japanese into English and vice versa, which show street maps and provide cultural events alerts while you tour the cities.To make it easier to get around cities with nameless streets, which even Japanese find difficult to navigate, there is GPS navigation, plus cultural information for certain points of interest."We are now in the trial stage," said Miho Funakoshi, a coordinator at the Osaka Tourist Bureau. "But later this year we will be rolling out a full service. We want visitors to feel they have a personal guide any time, anywhere in their pockets."Back in Europe, Dublin has boasted LBS travel guides on PDAs for years. And thanks to the launch in the UK of i-mode, the service that got Japan excited about their mobiles, subscribers can tune their internet-enabled phones into websites such as Madrid's online guide (movil.esmadrid.com) for instantly updated access to a city guide.Other travel portals offered in the O2 launch last month include an intuitive flight finder and booker from Lastminute.com, maps from Streetmap and other related travel information. These are better for the traveller than Wap because browsing is free.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I wish I had a nickel for every person who has walked into my living room over the past 14 years and said, "Gee, you have a lot of videotapes." Well, I do - even if saying so risks alerting the copyright police to the fact that I have taped a lot of TV shows and kept them.Two things, however, are pushing me to digitise the entire collection. First, many tapes have only half and hour or so of material I want to keep, so consolidating those would be a big space saver. Second, I have hundreds of tapes, and might want to move someday, or even see my furniture.Many people have taken the audio version of this voyage, turning their vinyl LPs into CDs or MP3s. With those, it is easy: find some software online, put the first record on, plug the stereo into your PC soundcard, begin recording. Repeat until either you or the collection is exhausted.By contrast, digital video is an absolute nightmare, if you do it right. Complications abound: competing file formats, and varying video standards, resolutions, and even cable and plug types. That was enough to cause me to give up the project in 2003 and last year. This year, it finally stuck; the tools have improved a little, and the overcrowding has become even worse.The good news is that the difficulty is all in the setup. Once you have made your technical choices, found your tools and everything is working, digitising becomes an assembly line.The hard wayThere are easier options than the choices I made: about &pound;320 buys a Panasonic combi VCR and DVD recorder. Put your VHS in, put a blank DVD in and, in theory, the video should be recorded on disc.I didn't go this way for several reasons. First of all, I already had the tuner capture card and DVD burner. Second, I tried that option on a brief foray into digitising my hundreds of vinyl LPs, and the audio CD recorder I tried refused to record anything, no matter what the brand of audio CD. Finally, I am willing to trade some prospective loss of quality - after all, I'm starting from imperfect analogue videotapes - for greater compression (and more video on each disc).My final format is DivX, which does for video what MP3 does for music. Increasingly, you don't even have to watch these files on a computer. Hauppauge, which makes my TV tuner/capture card, also makes a MediaMVP box that outputs DivXs to a standard TV and increasingly ordinary DVD players also play DivXs. I will, however, have to pay attention to how well the storage discs age, and make sure to archive a copy of the player. As hard drive space keeps getting cheaper, eventually I hope to afford enough for an in-house, online video reference library.You may be wondering if all this is legal. According to Duncan Calow, a copyright specialist at DLA Piper, the UK has no specific exemption from the copyright laws for private copying. In return, we do not pay a levy on blank media, as is the case in all other European countries except Ireland and Luxembourg."Strictly," he says, "in the UK your ability to make these copies in your own home within the law is very limited. But since it's done privately, nobody has any intention of coming into your home to check what you're doing."Digitising is a four-step process. One: capture the video on to the computer. Two: edit it. Three: convert it to DivX. Four: burn on to a storage medium.Capturing the video is easy, if time-consuming, because you are playing through every tape in real time. This stage requires a TV capture/tuner card (in my case, a Hauppauge PVR-350), capture software and a lot of empty hard drive space. The software Hauppauge bundles with the card works perfectly well. It offers many settings, but after some research in the bible of digital video, the websitewww.videohelp.com, I settled on Standard DVD, which creates MPeg2 files that take up about 3GB of hard drive space per hour. This stage is actually fun, because it is a great opportunity to rediscover the things you forgot you had. You don't have to supervise it, though.Ad busterI didn't want to do much editing; mostly, I just wanted to get rid of the advertisements. There are many editing tools for MPeg2 on the internet, some of them free. In the end, I paid $49.99 (&pound;28.20) for VideoReDo. It has a very easy interface, allows frame-by-frame editing, and saves the edited files quickly because it doesn't try to needlessly re-encode them. It has an automated Ad Detective that is supposed to find and mark ads for you, but that feature seems to be optimised for US, not UK, ads, and it is quicker to find the ads by hand. This is the only stage that requires hands-on attention.Converting to DivX takes time, but is painless. Again, there are many choices, but based on recommendations I tried Dr DivX, which, although simple, allows you to choose file sizes and some other options. Unfortunately, when I went to pay for it, I discovered it has been replaced as a product by DivX Create, which gives you no options. For what I'm doing it isn't that important: I'm burning to DVD and I have a lot of latitude with file sizes. But if you wanted to digitise movies and ensure each one would fit on a standard CD, you'd be out of luck. The DivX Create bundle costs $19.99, and using it is as simple as dragging and dropping a bunch of files on it and clicking a button. If, for any reason, you want to edit the DivXs, there is an excellent free tool called VirtualDub that makes it painless.Burning the finished files to DVD or CD should be simple enough using the software bundled with your drive.If you already have a computer, therefore, this is all pretty inexpensive: about &pound;40 in software tools, another &pound;35-&pound;40 for a TV capture card, and a supply of blank discs (trywww.blankdiscshop.co.ukfor very good prices and service). You could even buy plastic DVD boxes, but cardboard sleeves take up less space.My one extravagance, since my main machine is constantly in use, was to buy a refurbished machine with a faster processor and a 200GB hard drive from Morgan Computers for about &pound;299. It is cheaper than the combination Panasonic machine mentioned above - and now I have an extra computer.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Micro hi-fiI'm just about to have to get rid of my antique hi-fi because it's just too big. Would it be stupid to spend money on another CD player when it could be going (presumably) towards an iPod plus lovely speakers? I want something small and good quality. I'm not bothered about music on the move.Suzannah DeaneJack Schofield:There presumably will be a time when all music and movies will be downloaded in digitised form, but it's not within the likely lifetime of any disk-based MP3 player you can buy today. Hard drives and batteries have much shorter lifespans than good hi-fi equipment, which lasts for decades.At the moment, digital music is not the route to a simple life. If you buy and download tracks, you have to pay high prices for copy-protected music that is less than CD quality. It involves operating a PC with an internet connection, downloading and copying tracks to the MP3 player, and probably backing them up to CD or DVD. If you create your own non-protected files, this involves extra work "ripping" CDs. This is OK for people who listen to music on their PCs and portable players, but not a good starting point for home hi-fi.You will also have an extra problem, because you like classical music and ballet. Although more than a million songs are now legally available online, classical music is generally not well represented.I think, therefore, you would be better off with what the audio world calls a "micro system". There are lots of models available, but hi-fi quality seems to start with the Denon D-M33. I'd suggest the D-M35 DAB, which includes a CD player and digital as well as AM and FM radio, and comes with small SC-M73 speakers. If CDs do become obsolete, you can plug an MP3 player in the back, and still get better sound than you would from the little speakers designed for MP3 players.Player searchI am in the market for a hard drive MP3 player, but after trawling through a variety of websites, I am yet to find one that can provide me with the information I need.Ant SmallwoodJSMost MP3 comparison sites don't have much information, or concentrate on price searches. You could try CNet Asia's site, which lets you tick likely prospects then compare several players side by side (asia.cnet.com/reviews/musicplay). Apart from that, I'm open to suggestions.Save the webWhen I choose "Save Web Page, Complete", for offline viewing, Internet Explorer appears to look for the site again, and in some cases gives me the blunt message: "This Web Page Cannot be Saved." Why?Pete BenlowJSIn the good old days, web pages were just downloaded from a server, and were easy to save. Today, a page may be constructed on the fly with elements from different servers, including adverts. It may include JavaScript or ActiveX controls downloaded to your PC to customise the page. Internet Explorer tries to convert all these elements to create a page where the links are to your PC's hard drive, but as Microsoft's Knowledgebase says, IE "does not parse the script in a web page when saving the web page, and so it is unable to determine when an image or document URL is constructed from within a script." Your best bet is to add the page to IE's Favorites list and tick the box that says: "Make available offline". Another workaround is to go to the File menu, select Send and then pick Page by E-mail. When the email window pops up, select File and Save As, then save the message as .htm instead of .eml. You don't have to send the email. Alternatively, WinWAX Express (www.winwax.com) is an IE add-on designed to capture and save pages - or try Opera's browser.Replacing XPI was running Windows XP Home Edition, which came pre-installed as an OEM Product. My hard disk failed and I had to buy a new one, but I do not have an installation disc for Windows XP. I tried to contact Multivision Computers but they appear to have stopped trading. How do I re-install Windows?Jack BeebyJSMicrosoft generally takes the view that your deal was with the OEM (original equipment manufacturer), not with Microsoft. In any case, Microsoft does not have copies of recovery discs nor access to any drivers or other changes made by OEM suppliers. You would therefore have to buy a new copy of Windows and hope it works. However, some smaller system builders bought Windows under a different deal, and if your Certificate of Authenticity sticker says OEM Product, you may be entitled to a replacement disc costing about &pound;16. Ask on 0800 032 4479.Backchat&middot; Rachel Carthy asked about distinguishing folders in Windows Explorer. Nicholas Mandich and Steve Bullman suggest the free LabelsWin (www.proggle.com/labels/lite), which lets you assign colour labels to folder icons. "This feature first appeared in Mac OS 9 and has thus far remained unavailable in Windows," writes Nicholas. Ian Flett and Ian McRobert suggest Rainbow Folders, "a little postcardware utility". As always, there are other options.&middot; Last week I mentioned lots of devices that allow music files from a PC to be played elsewhere in the home. I missed out the Sonos Digital Music System, which works as a standalone product and creates its own wireless network.
If it hadn't been my brother's ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line) modem, I would have smashed its smug curved face in. Would have stamped all over it, trampled bits of circuit board into the carpet and chewed on the comforting green LEDs that only moments before had claimed everything was working fine.But it had me over a barrel and knew it. I needed that internet connection and the modem was the only thing that was going to provide it.There comes a time in every technology's life when it is able to extract the most pure, mind-melting fury from its users. That point is just after widespread adoption, but just before all the glitches are ironed out. We are there with broadband internet.Ho, ho, ho! you can hear technology Santa or, rather, Satan, crying out. Even St Nick has jumped on to the upgrade merry-go-round, distributing thousands of presents this Christmas that will make last year's obsolete. Meanwhile, thousands of companies are so keen to win the broadband sledge race that they keep forgetting about the trees on the way down. Or how to stop when they reach the bottom.I am at my brother's flat trying to get an internet connection with exactly the same technology he uses: a Centrino chipset connecting to a Linksys wireless router, connected to an ADSL modem, connected to a telephone line.I have all the passwords and security keys for the entire network.And yet, five hours later, I am reduced to repeatedly shouting the same four-letter word at the smiley router that has yet to provide my laptop with so much as a single usable data packet.There is a new lead connecting the modem to the telephone line, and a new Ethernet cable connecting the laptop to the modem. Everything else has been stripped out and is lying, bloodstained and groaning, on the floor. And yet, oblivious to the technological massacre perpetrated in the room, the modem sits there smiling. There is not a single earthly reason why the system shouldn't be working. Yet it isn't.Fortunately, this insanely angry user has been here before and learned a very expensive, but valuable, lesson. I'll share it with you now: turn it all off and go to bed. The next day, the exact same technology will work first time, straight off, no complaints - mocking you, the impotent, hopeless analogue bundle of flesh and sinew.And that is exactly what happened. I hate technology.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The idea of "structured blogging" has been floating around for the past couple of years without making much headway, because there are lots of ways to do it, and no ways to make anyone do it. However, last night at theSyndicate conferencein San Francisco, the Structured Blogging Initiative was announced, and that could help kick-start a movement.Jeff Clavier,blogging from the event, writes:The idea [of structured blogging] is pretty simple (but the implementation across all industry players is far from easy): as opposed to publishing a review of say, a movie, in a text format, a micro-format defines a number of fields that can be entered related to the movie: title, producer, director, actors, etc. Having information available in XML will make it much easier to intelligently extract elements of data to search, aggregate and syndicate. Specific plugins have been developed for WordPress and MovableType to make it easy to publish these formats through a blog. There are a couple of examples on theStructuredBlogging blog.Obviously a blogger can write, say, a book review, but if you pick up the RSS feed, all you get is a stream of text data. Clearly it would be more useful if your reader software could tell which words were the title, which the author, and so on. That way you could extract the information. Better still, if everyone used the same format, you easily compile information from multiple sources.We already do things like this. The old vCard format, for example, allows people to create and distribute their contact details, such as name, title, phone number etc. When you receive a vCard (vcf file), all you have to do is double-click it and all the details are entered into your address book. The equivalentmicroformatfor structured blogging is thehCard. There's also thehReviewformat for reviews.You may even have read a review in hReview format, since examples include theHarry Potter and the Goblet of Fire Reviewat Yahoo.co.uk.Making a pre-announcement last month,Marc Canter wrotethat the SBI "will go live Dec 13th as a Wordpress and Moveable Type plug-in. We'll then followup with Drupal, Mambo, Xanga, Ruby on Rails and .Net and Java versions. Maybe we'll even figure out how to get it to work with MySpace and LiveJournal. Also we promise that this will support every kind of format there is, in every syndication format, page tag and file format you can think of."Making everyone happy may be messy but it's a good start. Of course, even if an idea is obviously good, and an obvious time-saver for everyone, it doesn't mean anyone will use it. After all, we've had vCard since the 90s and the vast majority of people still put their contact info in a relatvely useless sig.
After all therecent furore, the people at Wikipedia could probably do with some good news. And here it is: a study by a team commissioned by the science journalNaturelooking at 42 entries in the Wikipedia, has found that theym "not markedly less accurate" than those in the Encyclopaedia Britannica. Analysing the entries on the same topic in each publication, Nature found that the Wikipedia entries averaged four inaccuracies, while the Britannica ones averaged three - where "inaccuracy" means "factual errors, critical omissions or misleading statements". (Is it just me, but does that not sound so good for either publication? "Good news, honey, I only made three inaccurate turns while I was driving home!")Eight "serious" errors (such as "misinterpretations of important concepts") were found, four in each set of encyclopaedia entries. In total there were 162 and 123 errors respectively on topics ranging from Agent Orange through Dolly the sheep to Robert Burns Woodward. (Don't say "who?" Say "ah, the preeminent organic chemist of the 20th century".)Nature also surveyed more than 1,000 scientists who had recently published papers there, and found that more than 70% had heard of it (probably not surprising; scientists were the very first to embrace the Net), and 17% of that group consulted it on a weekly basis. However, fewer than 10% of those who knew about the site (ie less than 7% of the whole group) actually contributed their expertise by updating those inaccurate entries.Some have been busy: "it will come as no surprise that the entry on 'spin density wave' was originated by a physicist," Nature's editorial observes.But it's not all plain sailing: "in politically sensitive areas such asclimate change, researchers have had todo battlewith sceptics pushing an editorial line that is out of kilter with mainstream scientific thinking," the editorial continues [links added by The Guardian] - though "this usually requires no more than a little patience." Clearly scientists are made of more patient stuff than many - though they can also point to peer-reviewed articles on topics, which often convinces onlookers who can affect the change process.Jimmy Wales, Wikipedia's co-founder, says the quality of the site could improve further if more scientists got involved with it - and in an editorial, Nature urges them to do precisely that, "not to seek a replacement for established sources... but to push forward the grand experiment .. and to see how much it can improve."And you're wondering which was the worst article? That onDmitry Mendeleev, co-creator of the periodic table. The reviewers found 19 errors in Wikipedia, and 8 in Britannica - though the 19 figure will probably fall very quickly once the article is on the web.Does this demonstrate anything? Yes, that when you have peer-reviewed information widely available to all, you can create a fairly reliable reference library. Though note that it's only "fairly" reliable. Even so, the Wikipedia entries will surely get corrected faster than the Britannica ones, although I think the latter does have online updates too.Update by Jack: You can now read the Nature article:Internet encyclopaedias go head to head.
Extensive polling I have conducted on behalf of this column (that is, at least three conversations at Christmas parties) reveals an interesting and widespread belief about the very visible increase of cycle use in the capital. Namely, that the growing number of Londoners taking to their bikes is due neither to local authorities putting in cycle lanes, nor to Transport for London's five-year plan, nor even to the congestion charge - but to the terror attacks of 7/7.It's a cracking story partly because it says yah boo sucks to the terrorists. But it also appeals to our perversity and contrariness. This is a tale about how what decades of earnest campaigning and publicly funded urging failed to accomplish (getting people back on bicycles) happened overnight. We love it because it hovers somewhere between the law of unintended consequences, the proverbial ill-wind never blowing anyone any good, and our primal desire for a redemptive theme. But is it true?What did happen is that a lot of new bikes were sold after 7/7. Even allowing for chains such as Halfords bigging up its figures, there is plenty of evidence of a boom in the bike trade. But did those extra purchases translate into greater use? Well, a significant number of people did find a new way to work: passenger numbers on the underground were down 15-20% after the attacks. But, because of line closures, the tube's capacity was down by a similar amount. And bus use actually went up - despite the Tavistock Square bus bomb.And bike use? Dramatic numbers such as an extra 50,000 cycle journeys per week made convenient handles for journalists and were still being reported many weeks after the bombings. What, in fact, occurred was a spike in the graph that lasted a fortnight (up, on average, by 15%, or 4,000 trips per day); then it was back to normal.But "normal" here means a steady upward trend. "What the bombings did for bike use" was a wonderful good-news story, but what's really getting results is pro-cycling policy and increased spending. Isn't that actually the best news?
"Taiwan-based original design manufacturer Quanta Computer Inc. has been chosen as the ODM for the $100 laptop project sponsored by non-profit organization One Laptop Per Child. Quanta has agreed to devote significant engineering resources from the Quanta Research Institute (QRI) the first half of 2006, with a target of bringing the product to market the fourth quarter," reportsEE Times.Quanta is well known for manufacturing iMacs and PowerBooks including G4 and G5 notebooks for Apple, as well as making machines for Dell, HP, NEC, and others -- it's reckoned to produce about a quarter of the world's notebooks.As reported earlier, it had already signed a deal with the "Massachusetts Institute of Technology's (MIT's) Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) [to] undertake a five-year joint research and development project to develop a future generation of portable computing devices."As forNicholas Negroponte's crank-handle notebook, EE Times says:The launch of 5 to 15 million units will be both in large-scale pilot projects in seven culturally diverse countries (China, India, Brazil, Argentina, Egypt, Nigeria, and Thailand), with one million units in each of these countries, and an additional modest allocation of machines to seed developer communities in a number of other selected countries. A commercial version of the machine will be explored in parallel.However, only governments get the $100 deal, and any commercial version is expected to cost $200.
(Warning: pure speculation ahead.)As I was about to doze off last night, having skimmed the usual zillion news feeds, a couple of things came together in my head. First, remember that Apple discontinued the iPod mini even though it was the best-selling digital music player in the world, to replace it with the nano.Next, note thatiPod minis are now selling on eBay for $76 above their original retail price. These things are design classics to a notable number of people.Next, consider this report of how someone hasupgraded their iPod mini to an 8GBversion.Then consider that at present, iPod storage goes 512MB, 1GB (shuffle); 2GB, 4GB (nano); 30GB, 60GB (video).Can you see the gap? Can you? Yes, it's where the 10GB iPod used to sit. Now, since the 10GB iPod waslaunched in May 2002(and what a busy week that was - Star Wars Episode II cereal!), the disks it used will have gotten (a) smaller (b) cheaper. Plus, Apple knows exactly how to build an iPod mini, and so does the manufacturer. The bill of materials will all have gotten cheaper.Plus, it'll either be able to offer them in the colours which actually sold first time round (gold was a particular flop, we hear), or do them in different colours, so you can have up-storagemanship about yournewmini, unlike those people using the antique versions.Which means that everything is in place, if the mood took someone at the top of the company, to stand up in January and say "You know that iPod mini thing... well, we've decided to make itbetter." A 10GB and 20GB version isn't beyond the bounds of possibility. Cue cheers, stamping of feet, furious clicking of Apple Store buttons, etc.Sounds strange? Yes, but in a world where old is new, so that digital radios sport a "retro" look, why not?
"Home pages are making a comeback, thanks to AJAX and Flash-powered 'desktop' applications. Inside, a look at seven desktop and homepage apps vying for your news feeds, bookmarks, and sticky notes," saysPublish. It's had a brief look at six examples: Microsoft Live, Google IG, Groowy, Netvibes, Protopage and Eskobo.I also mentions Zoozio, which is "coming soon".Comment:AJAX? It's so noughties....
Java, subject of one of computing's biggest hype-fests, is now in decline. "Reports by Evans Data Corp., which does annual surveys of the activities of software developers, show Java use is slipping as LAMP and Microsoft's .NET technology gain traction. In North America, the percentage of developers who use Java as one of their principal programming languages declined to 47.9% in Evans' fall survey, vs. 51.4% in the fall of 2002. The same surveys show that while Java use is climbing in Asia, it's on the decline in Europe," reportsBusiness Week.As usual, LAMP is an acronym for Linux, Apache, MySQL and "a collection of so-called scripting languages that all start with the letter P -- Perl, Python, and PHP" -- but in this case, mainly for PHP.Browser pioneer Marc Andreessen, chairman of Zend, a PHP company, says the shift is like the one in the 1990s from traditional programming languages C and C+ to Java. "We're seeing it now with a big migration from Java to PHP in Web development," he says. Stats back him up. The number of Web sites using PHP has risen to 23 million today from zero in 2000, according to surveys by the Internet analysis firm Netcraft.Comment:It's amusing to see Netscape co-founder Marc Andreessen popping up again, because during the Java bubble, he was involved with the high-profileJavagatordevelopment. This was, as you'd guess, Netscape Navigator rewritten in Java. It never appeared. Andreessen said it was a disaster.
I was thinking about donating my Christmas socks to"Barefoot Bobbie" Johnsonand upgrading my ancient portable MiniDisc player to a new Hi-MD version. I use MD for recording things, such as interviews, so I have exactly zero music tracks on MiniDisc -- nothing from CD, nothing from the radio, no downloads, nothing. Under the circumstances, you might think I would have no worries about DRM etc. Not so. Reading reviews of the Sony MZ-RH10 Hi-MD Walkman at Amazon.co.uk, I find this little snip from susieh157:When uploading from your MD to the PC (only possible with analogue recordings, like live recordings or voice recordings) you can only upload once and if you try again, the original gets deleted from your MD. That could mean you lose an important original recording really easily.I've nothing against Sony in general, and own more Sony products than I can remember, from micro/cassette recorders via several consoles to a wide-screen TV, but this kind of brain-dead stupidity is just infuriating. It has probably cost Sony millions of sales, and when the whole MiniDisc industry continues on its current trajectory towards an ignominious and painful death, no one need be a bit surprised.
Joystiqhave covered a report by Jason Kraft and Chris Kwak atSusquehanna International Groupindicating that the review scores of 275 titles from the past couple of years have very little to do with how a game does on market. Unfortunately, what does matter is something that most seasoned gamers rail against, and that's the strength of the brand. In release terms, that means sequels. From the article:So what does affect sales? The best indicators of sales strength appear to be the strength of the publisher behind the game, the performance of prior iterations of the game (if it is a sequel) and the performance of the box-office sales of the movie version of the game.I remember being harshly criticised for games reviews which didn't have a X out of 10 score at the end, which I always thought was rather stupid and lazy. Gauging the effort of the designers and the enjoyment of a game - indeed all of the various aspects of the gaming "experience" - with a pithy numeric seems to go against what it's all about. This isanotherargument for games journalists to take the helm and really examine the products they're reviewing as something more than a gadget to be tried and tested.
Xbox360, PSP, DS, er Gizmondo - 2005 has certainly been a busy year for hardware launches (in Europe at least), but what about the games themselves? You couldn't call 2005 a truly vintage year, but there have been some cracking titles released in the last 12 months. So what was your best game of 2005?Maybe World of Warcraft's enthralling virtual vista? Or Resident Evil 4's chainsaw symphony? Perhaps God of War's stylish violence? How about Mario Kart DS and its arthritis-inducing online action?What else has caught your imagination most in 2005? Pro Evolution Soccer 5? The Movies? Nintendogs? King Kong? GTA: Liberty City Stories? Civ IV? Project Gotham Racing 3? We'll have our top threes up later in the week - assuming Keith isn't knee-deep in nappies - but feel free to start the discussion now.
What do you get the man who has everything? A newer version of everything, apparently. With the indulgent season of gift-giving approaching fast, trouble looms around the nation.Much of the time, those devoid of enthusiasm rely on the familiar sweep of toiletries, sweets and other stocking fillers. Fathers, brothers, uncles and sons will know full well that many of their Christmas "surprises" are likely to be socks - the de facto gift for men of a certain age. But times change, and so do stereotypes. For a new breed of men, socks are being kicked out from under the tree in favour of a new, shinier solution to the Christmas conundrum. Arise, gadget man.Becoming a member of this tribe is easier than you might think - with seemingly ordinary behaviour such as programming the video recorder, or ownership of a computer. For tortured gift-givers, even the most innocuous action can be a handy indicator of present potential. Once you have attained geek status, the label can be difficult to shake, because everybody has a vested interest in keeping you that way. Suddenly every relative, friend or acquaintance who had previously scrabbled for ideas is presented with a plethora of solutions. Technology provides the lazy with a simple way out.But easy answers come at a price; and it's becoming an increasingly hefty one. These days we're not just talking widgets for opening a wine bottle. No, the conspicuous technological consumption of the 21st century demands that we fix our eyes on a pricier range of goods. Step into any high street and you are presented with a gluttonous spread of mobile phones, computers, palmtops, laptops, DVD recorders, video-games consoles and all manner of MP3 players.And we're preparing new generations for the same thing. A survey last week suggested that parents spent &pound;223 on presents for their sons, but just &pound;127 on their daughters. Why? Because expensive boys' toys - proto-appliances with names like Roboraptor, Robosapien and Cybershocker - are a prelude to their owners' future life as gadget men.As if to mark this seismic shift, this year the buzz round technology has been cranked up a notch or two. Technology is now presented as a must-have, not a luxury: you're nothing if you haven't got a PlayStation Portable, Xbox 360 or iPod nano lying about the house.Magazines and newspapers are adorned with high-value technological trinkets. Price often matters more than performance; last week, the lower-priced iPod shuffle, still less than a year old, was declared a "chav gadget" - it's not deemed expensive enough.The lustrous presentation and gawp-worthy price tags usually bring to mind a fashion spread. But everyone knows the beautiful clothes draped over beautiful models are aspirational. Readers see a designer dress they like but buy a version within their price bracket. For gadget man and his friends, though, life is more difficult: buying Topshop knockoffs of haute couture technology is simply not an option. Even the bargain-basement widgets set you back a bundle.For many, Christmas morning will follow the same routine. After gratefully opening his gifts, the gadget-laden gentleman takes the tools of the contemporary hunter-gatherer (a handful of cables and a barely read instruction booklet) and heads off for some quality time alone with his technology. It's the digital equivalent of wandering down to the potting shed, and it's made even worse because someone has forked out &pound;200 for the privilege.Me? I'd rather have a pair of socks.&#183;Bobbie Johnson is the Guardian's technology correspondentbobbie.johnson@guardian.co.uk
ModelMazda MX-5 2.0iPrice from&pound;16,600Top speed130mphAcceleration0-62mph in 7.9 secsConsumption36.7mpg (combined)Emissions183g/km (road tax band E)At the wheelJilly GooldenThey'd rather walkDamon HillOn the stereoUB40En route forDoverWe are pleased to share with you news of the following alteration to the Mazda MX-5, the world's best-selling two-seater sports car, now moving among us in a brand new, third-generation version. And the news is: the boot has been carefully recalibrated and upgraded to accept "beverage cases". By a "beverage case", we understand Mazda means a container bearing "12 1.5 litre bottles, carried upright". Excellent. And just in time for Christmas.This highly specific adaptation to the car's already winning formula was, according to Mazda, "a special request from European customers". Makes you proud to be in Europe, doesn't it? At some point over the past couple of years, Mazda's market researchers must have sat down with a sample group of EU passport holders, answering to the company's potential customer profile, and asked them to name something that would, in their opinion, improve the MX-5 and make it more appealing. And enough of them to make a difference said: "Well, room for a crate of red would be nice."In fairness, though, the MX-5 has always so completely fulfilled its brief that it was always going to be tough to think of ways to take it forward - beyond enhancing its possibilities as a vintner's delivery van. One would soon be reduced to suggesting, feebly, an extra coat of polish. When Mazda launched the first MX-5 in 1989, the convertible roadster was, commercially speaking, toast. Few people could afford them or be bothered with them, apart from revivalist MG-owners and golden age re-enacters in cravattes. The MX-5 single-handedly repopularised the format, wrapped it up in an affordable package and carried it aloft to the century's end.The car now glories in its firm reputation as the people's two-seater, a sports incarnation of the Beetle. Hence the production figures - 725,000 so far - and its place in the Guinness Book of Records as the most successful open two-seater car of all time. Its appeal is cunningly wide. It has a dash of Penelope Pitstop about it, for the young female professional with some disposable wad; yet traditional young males don't automatically regard it as a big metal clutch-bag. And, correct me if I'm wrong, but it would be very difficult - even for someone with extremely vehement feelings against sports cars and all that they stand for - to accuse an MX-5 owner of having a complex about the size of his penis. Even in postbox red, like the model I drove, it's just not sending out those kinds of messages.Nor do older drivers find the car intimidatingly or embarrassingly young. It's the car you can drive between mid-life crises without entirely spoiling people's appetite for you. True, I did once hear it derided as a hairdresser's car. But hey: the world needs hairdressers, and hairdressers need cars.The breadth of the MX-5's appeal may be because, as sports cars go, it's a small study in pleasant passivity. It is entirely without flanges, crimps, flared nostrils, spoilers or aggressive add-ons of any kind. It's a feisty enough, rear-wheel driven sports model, but it doesn't trumpet the necessity of a toolkit, or any kind of daunting specialism. And it doesn't have an ugly bone in its body. It makes the MG-F look like a bag of wet cement. You can buy a faster, noisier, more thrilling sports car with ease - and no one is going to pretend that an MX-5 is built to growl and tear lumps out of the Tarmac. But you cannot buy a trimmer, cuter looking sports car, apart from the Fiat Barchetta, and those only come in left-hand drive versions, which emphatically decreases the fun you can have with one on a British road.The new MX-5 is a tad longer and a touch wider than the old one. It has dispensed altogether with the old Coke-bottle waist, opting instead for the comforting, pebble-smooth, rounded shape of a fruit pastille. The new dimensions make the car less intimidating for people more than 6ft tall or who, as a result of lifting wine boxes, have built themselves a set of outsized shoulders. They also enable the car to offer, for the first time, side airbags - and given that soft-top convertibles in general tend to summon, in the event of a crash, only slightly more protection than you would get on a scooter, the presence of a few more self-inflating cushions can only be reassuring.Mine had leather seats and a shiny black dash that appeared to have been cut from the lid of a grand piano. For a while, I didn't know whether to drive it or play it. The provision of no fewer than four cup-holders - one in each door, two beneath the sliding-topped centre console - must surely be accounted a new world record in the sports car sector. The steering was sharp without being alarming, the 2.0 litre engine punchy but unintimidating. And, of course, it came with the signature fold-back soft-top that still seems fabulously uncomplicated, civilised and user-friendly, even in the age of fully automated, push-button roof retraction.You flip a couple of clips on the roof and then simply pass the canvas over your head, whereupon it concertinas neatly on to the back ledge. No tedious poppers or wrist-spraining lash-points; and no getting out of the car. Indeed, the roof business can be accomplished with one hand, leaving your other hand free to steer or crack open another amusing bottle of pinot noir, if that's your poison - and Mazda seems to think it is.
"Type the word 'blog' into Google's search box, and you'll receive a whopping 515 million search results, nearly twice as many as you receive for 'sex'," says Pete Blackshaw in hisPocket Guide to the 2005 Blogosphere.
The Entertainament Software Charity has been putting money towards the future of multimedia and interactive talent, and their biggest idea yet is beginning to see the light. ThePaddington Academyis a free media and performing arts (with Business and Enterprise) institute in the centre of London sponsored by the United Learning Trust (who are also responsible for the Lambeth Academy and 120 other similar schools throughout the UK), and is set to open to students of all abilities in September 2006.Kotakuhas word that there will be an open house for all curious parties on Wednesday between 9:30 and 11am.
In case we missed it last time round: "USB drives comes in thousands of designs and colors, but these 10 are extraordinary weird. Or what do you think? Go ahead, check them out. They are weird! Promise. Hehe," says the sitehere.
The normally Apple-lovingBusiness Weekhas run a story based on the Nielsen SoundScan statistic that "average weekly download sales as of Nov. 27 fell 0.44% vs. the third quarter. Says independent media analyst Richard Greenfield: 'We're not seeing the kind of dramatic growth we should given the surge in sales of iPods and other MP3 players.'"Apple, which launched the digital music revolution (sic), may now be holding it back. Critics say Apple's proprietary technology and its refusal to offer more ways to buy or to stray from its rigid 99 cents a song model is dampening legal sales of digital tunes. "The villain in the story is the iPod," says Chris Gorog, CEO of Napster Inc, which sells both subscriptions and downloads. "You have this device consumers love, but they're being restricted from buying anything other than downloads from Apple. People are bored with that."But leaping to the conclusion, the article says:So will Jobs change his tune? Not unless he has to. Apple can barely keep up with demand for iPods, which reap as much as 25% gross margins, vs. minimal profits for each iTunes track. So right now there's no reason for the company to alter the way it sells music or make its player compatible with other services. But if download sales don't bounce back, music companies could start looking beyond Cupertino for answers.
Thenewsthat you can now play more Xbox games on your 360 is good. I'm still spending a lot of my 360 time playing Pro Evo 5, normally on Live. This is mainly, but not entirely, due to the fact that most of my friends haven't yet managed to pick up a 360. But the lack of a real killer 360 game is also to blame. I'm ploughing through Kameo, mainly because I'm a sucker for gorgeous fantasy romps -Twilight Princesscan't come soon enough - and am willing to ignore the derivative design and general hand-holding for the sake of seeing what's next. Interestingly, Kameo failed to even make the Top 40 last week, which sadly only goes to prove that shooting, sport and driving are the key console genres. The heady days of Banjo Kazooie and the first Jak and Daxter are long gone.Elsewhere PD: Zero and Project Gotham 3 are, well, pretty good. The graphics are lovely - although the overly used "wet" texture look that gives a lot of in-game walls and streets a dank feel is clearly this year's lens flare, or something. But I still haven't fallen in love with either - perhaps that will happen in time. And of course, they're both far better than those moody sludge-fests, Condemned and Quake 4. But for now I'm spending as much 360 time playing original Xbox titles as 360 specific.
The geek blogosphere is currently going bananas over a revelation onJohn Battelle's SearchblogandThe Wall Street Journal, viz: "Alexa, an Amazon-owned search company started by Bruce Gilliat and Brewster Kahle (and the spider that fuels the Internet Archive), is going to offer its index up to anyone who wants it. Alexa has about 5 billion documents in its index - about 100 terabytes of data. It's best known for its toolbar-based traffic and site stats, which are much debated and, regardless, much used across the web," writes Battelle.In other words, Alexa and Amazon are turning the index inside out, and offering it as a web service that anyone can mashup to their hearts content. Entrepreneurs can use Alexa's crawl, Alexa's processors, Alexa's server farm....the whole nine yards.This isn't free: there are "consumption fees": "One dollar per CPU hour consumed. $1 per gig of storage used. $1 per 50 gigs of data processed. $1 per gig of data uploaded".Whether it will lead to some interesting applications is anyone's guess....
"Microsoft Corp., the second-largest maker of video game systems, sold 28 percent of Xbox 360 consoles on store shelves in Japan, according to preliminary figures from market researcher Media Create Co. Microsoft sold 41,817 consoles in the first two days since the Xbox 360 was introduced on Dec. 10 in Japan, Tokyo-based Media Create said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday. The researcher will publish revised figures tomorrow, reportsBloomberg.''It sounds like a pretty weak start,'' said Eiji Maeda, a video game industry analyst at Daiwa Institute of Research in Tokyo. ''It will be important to watch how sales are in the last week before Christmas.''Comment:Considering Microsoft sold about 10 times as many consoles in the US in a couple of hours, that sounds like a pretty terrible result. Of course, it reflects the fact that there were only half a dozen games ready (no Final Fantasy, and Dead or Alive 4 won't ship until December 29) compared with 19 in the US, and that the original Xbox was such a flop in Japan -- no existing fan-base to target. Microsoft desperately needs a really good, exclusive Japanese must-have title....Update:Ina second piece, Bloomberg says it sold 39% in the first two days. Microsoft "sold 62,135 of the 159,000 consoles it shipped, according to Tokyo-based Enterbrain. That compares with about 123,000 units sold in the first three days for the first Xbox, which debuted on Feb. 22, 2002, the report said."
This may not be to the taste ofthosewho don't think much of academics flexing their intelligence muscles through games, but for those who are curious about what the Academy thinks of Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games thislinkmay be of interest to you.It's a selection of weblogs and reports from students at Trinity University in the States who've been charged by their prof,Aaron Delwiche(a good friend to virtual worlds weblogTerra Nova), to conduct ethnographies of the hugely successful World of Warcraft as part of their credit requirements for their "Games for the Web: Ethnography of Massively Multiplayer On-line Games" course. The 15 term papers and the associated documentation are great first steps for the students in examining the social character of online social spaces, and a very good insight for people who've never had the chance to dive into one of these virtual worlds.While there have been some problems with posting this kind of MMOG-ethnographic research in public form in the past (the community of Second Life areparticularlysensitiveto this, as covered by Clickable Culture), the process of this data collection has been extremely transparent, so when you're reading through, don't be worried that you're spying on an orc's deepest darkest hidden secret.viaBoing Boing
It will be seized upon by philandering sportsmen and loose-fingered politicians, and paranoid business executives could also find it useful.Embarrassing, incriminating or just plain sensitive text messages that have a nasty habit of being forwarded on to friends, enemies and tabloid journalists could be a thing of the past with a new service that makes messages self-destruct after the recipient has read them.David Beckham and Shane Warne, who both faced newspaper allegations of affairs after they were exposed for sending raunchy text messages, will wish StealthText, apparently derived from military technology, had been invented a few years earlier. Mobile phone users with a Wap connection can download the service by texting "Stealth" to 80880. Self-destruction comes at a price: for 50p a text the technology enables the user to send the recipient a link to their message.Once opened, it disappears again after 40 seconds.To comply with legal requirements, when the message is deleted from the recipient's phone the "paper trail" and log stay on a secure server for a period of time before it is completely deleted, but the recipient has no access to this server."The ability to send a self-destruct message has massive benefits for people from all walks of life, from everyday mobile users through to celebrities and business people," said Carole Barnum of the developers, Staellium UK.Those who find boyfriends and girlfriends cannot resist forwarding their intimate picture messages to their mates will also soon be able to take dodgy photos of themselves with impunity: Staellium is planning to launch similar self-destruct email, voice and picture message services next year.
Set up in 2003 under the motto, "One person's trash can truly be another's treasure," the websitewww.freecycle.orghelps its 1.8 million members across the country offload their unwanted belongings to complete strangers for free. Below we list some of the more recent postings in the London area.Wanted:Small elephants.Offered:Piece of antler.Wanted:Carpet offcut for cat tunnel. Cats can't resist tunnels. They are "flat-cats" so need to be encouraged to exercise and they need "different" to stop their brains rotting.Offered:Silver Reebok exercise ball, blown up, needs stopper.Wanted:Manhole cover. Will pick up from anywhere!Taken:2 nearly new bras, worn once, NW7 (will post) - thanks for the interest, these have gone!Wanted:E3. Shiny leggings, etc! Dumbells!! Much of my life is taken up in a quest for shiny leggings &amp; cycling shorts, oh &amp; similar leotards or bottomless swimsuits as my sister calls them. They used to be available from Dance Bizarre, then went mainstream (er, 20+ years ago!), &amp; that exposure seems to have been terminal to the concept.Taken:Goddess Makeover - wow wow wow, never had so many emails.Wanted:Astroturf.Taken:Frogspawn N5 - amazing! thanks everyoneWanted:Marie Antoinette-style or Legal pro wigs.Offered:Huge paper cutter/guillotine five feet long. Heavy. You'll need to be strong if you want to take it home on the bus.Offered:10 reams pale blue A4 paper.Taken:Mirrorball, turntables and mixer (subject to collection).Offered:ABC of Rheumatology.Offered:Large box full of Cornstarch padding.Taken:Stella Artois 10-pack, SW20. That was quick!Taken:Armitage Shanks kitchen sink
Why has dedicated e-reader hardware failed to succeed in the marketplace? Would appreciate your thoughts. Gloria Whitaker-DanielsThe quick answer is, I think, that books are just too good -- too cheap, too convenient, too easy to use. People don't want to pay a lot for an electronic device that does the same job worse. Also, dedicated screen readers have to compete with other electronic devices that can do the same job. In the mobile market, that includes PDAs, mobile phones and some media players.Then there are the ancilliary problems of file formats, copy protection and prices. CDs are popular because they are portable, can be experienced in numerous situations (home hi-fi, clock radio in bedroom or kitchen, in car, portable player etc), can be ripped or copied, loaned to friends, and re-sold on eBay. Most commercial electronic texts are much more limited in all these areas.However, even when people have quite a good free screen reader (eg in a Pocket PC running Microsoft Windows CE) and access to free texts (Gutenberg etc), they don't use them much, or at all.So, the only real potential I can see for dedicated screen readers would be their adoption as standard by libraries, and by publishers supplying libraries with electronic books (eg in PDF format) and magazines instead of paper ones. This could be brought in as a replacement for microfiche, and would allow pay-per-page reading and book printing on demand.Online did run a cover story,Library without books, on Sony's LIBRIe ebook reader on Thursday April 22, 2004.I also wrote an Online cover story,The e-book: and now a new chapter begins, published on Thursday October 12, 2000.Further information is available from The International Digital Publishing Forum (IDPF), formerly the Open eBook Forum (OeBF). This is the trade and standards association for the digital publishing industry. See:http://www.idpf.org/
Tis the season to prepare jolly lists of gadgets you might like for Christmas, and TechWeb's Personal Tech journalists have come up with the goods inThe Ultimate Holiday Gift Guide.Yes, I'll have all of those, please, starting with the ThinkPad X41 Tablet PC and the Canon EOS 20D digital SLR. Not sure about the iPod nano: if I ever get an MP3 player, it will have to offer recording to MP3 or WAV via an external microphone, and ideally support FLAC. Also the Bose QuietComfort 2 noise-cancelling headphones don't fold up very small, so I might try the Sennheiser PXC 300 instead. Back in real life, of course, I notice I am running a bit short of socks....How about you?
The Nokia 770 Internet Tablet is interesting because it's a portable wireless Internet companion and runs Linux, but it suffers from limited processing power (250MHz ARM) and a shortage of memory (128MB, only 64MB available). At Ars Technica, Eric Bangeman has just posted acomprehensive review.
Congrats to resident gamesblogger Keith who became a dad this weekend!Keith, a copy ofGoodfatheris wending its way to you, includingHundreds of interactive baby lessons and baby-related definitionsEgads, there's a game for everything!game info viaaeropause
The Xbox 360 launched in Japan last weekend and completed Microsoft's overly ambitious global launch.Reportssuggest a muted welcome, but that was always expected from a country that shunned the original Xbox. By getting some prominent Japanese developers onboard there is more chance of success this time round, but the aim for Microsoft in Japan has to be about gaining respectable a foothold rather than outselling PS3. That particular battle will instead take place in the US and Europe.
Microsoft has been beta testing Kahuna, the next version of Hotmail, for a couple of months now, and theSeattle Post-Intelligencernewspaper has had a look at Windows Live Mail in the context of Gmail and the new Yahoo Mail, which is also in beta. All three use Ajaxing to provide a user experience that is much more like a desktop application than traditional webmail -- though by desktop standards, they are all slow and somewhat primitive.Windows Live Maillooks quite a lot like the new Outlook, whereasYahoo's new Maillooks more like the old Outlook Express. This is not to express a preference, of course. I've used Yahoo's new mail and it's good, though I wouldn't go as far as the Wall Street Journal'sWalter Mossbergand say it's "far superior" to Gmail.Seattle P-I has screen shots of bothYahoo MailandWindows Live Mail. However, the best source of info on Windows Live Mail isImran Qureshi's blog: he's the Windows Live Program Manager.Both services are likely to have an impact on far more people than Gmail. In the US, Yahoo has 10 times as many monthly visitors as Gmail -- 66.6 million versus 6.2 million, on comScore figures. Globally, both Yahoo Mail and Hotmail have something like 200 million users each, whereas Gmail is probably around 10 million or so.
So, someone writes an article criticising open source software (with examples), and what do you know - there's an avalanche of email saying that it's not so at all. We have to say that it's not that surprising. It's a standard reaction online.Of course, the fact that Andrew Brown's article ("If this suite is a success, why is it so buggy?") wasmentioned on Slashdotmeant it garnered the standard million replies there, and plenty of emails to us. Some, at least, did come from people who had read the article all the way to the end - which is generally all we ask of people who want to comment on something.As you can imagine, though, the tech@guardian.co.uk inbox is, if not melting, then steaming ever so slightly (once we'd got rid of the usual weekend spam), with people who do want to comment on the article, but then found there wasn't any convenient place to do so (apart, of course, from Slashdot). No longer! If you have read the article and have a burning urge to say something more, then please, do it here. Readers' views are always welcome.Finally, if you want to comment on the fact that there was only a Gamesblog last week, and no games reviews, this would also be the right place to do it.
Fingered: is scanning technology secure or not? Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesWith news of Britain's impending national ID card regularly hitting the headlines, interest in biometric technologies such as fingerprint scanning has never been higher. But new research from the US - research funded by America's National Science Foundation, Office of Homeland Security and Department of Defense - has shown it is still remarkably easy to fool fingerprint scanners using play-doh moulds of real fingers.Stephanie Schuckers, an associate professor at Clarkson University, managed to spoof fingerprints more than 90% of the time."As with any identification or security system... biometric devices are prone to 'spoofing' or attacks designed to defeat them.""Digits from cadavers and fake fingers molded from plastic, or even something as simple as Play-Doh or gelatin, can potentially be misread as authentic," she explains. "My research addresses these deficiencies and investigates ways to design effective safeguards and vulnerability countermeasures. The goal is to make the authentication process as accurate and reliable as possible."There's a fuller reporthere on Yubanet.So what's - is this really dangerous or not? I've heard some horror stories (people successfully using sausages to fake fingerprints) and this is the kind of story that makes any ID paranoiacs cringe.
Jeffrey Brown, a Distinguished Engineer at IBM, gavea paper on the Xbox 360 processorat the Fall Processor Forum. In passing, it clears up a few misconceptions, but the basics are simple:The Xbox 360 system has a single chip (with 165 million transistors) for its CPU. This chip is in fact a three-way symmetric multiprocessor design. The three PowerPC cores are identical, except that they are physically reflected through the X and Y axis. Each of the CPU cores is a specialized PowerPC chip with a VMX128 extension related to (and partially compatible with) the VMX instructions in the G4 and G5 CPUs. The three CPU cores share a 1MB Level2 cache. Each processor has 32KB each of data and instruction Level1 cache. The chip's front-side bus/physical interface has a 21.6GB/second bandwidth, and runs at 5.4GHz. The high frequency clocks are generated on-chip by four phase-locked loops: two for the core clocks, two for the PHY clock.Later, it says:While the term VMX is familiar to PowerPC users, the implementation on the Xbox 360 processor is a new design called VMX128 which was specially enhanced to accelerate 3D graphics and game physics. The number of vector registers was increased from 32 to 128. All 128 registers are directly addressable, and the original 32 registers are mapped to the first 32 entries of 128-entry vector register file, and so are compatible with the original PowerPC ISA. We also added a number of new instructions.
"After almost a decade of explosive growth in its electronics sector, China has overtaken the United States as the world's biggest supplier of information technology goods, according to a report by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development," reportsThe New York Times."Data in the report, to be published on Monday, show that China's exports of information and communication technology - including laptop computers, mobile phones and digital cameras - increased by more than 46 percent to $180 billion in 2004 from a year earlier, easily outstripping for the first time United States exports of $149 billion, which grew 12 percent from 2003."
Xooglersis a "gathering spot for ex-Googlers to reminisce and comment on the latest developments in search".
Steve Case, when head of America Online, engineered the "merger of the century" when AOL took over the CNN Time Warner media empire. But it "quickly became widely derided as the 'worst merger in history'," he writes inThe Washingon Post, and he now wants the company broken up into four units.
The term 'hairdresser's car' isn't meant as a compliment. It's applied to vehicles which are seen as a triumph of style over substance; motors as light and frothy as a feather cut. It means underpowered and over-preened. You'd never, for example, hear your hairdresser boast: 'I'm pleased with my V12 5.8-litre Hummer, though it is a bummer to park ...'It's time to reclaim the term. The country's car parks are clogged with models that are too big, too clever, and in most cases too ugly. What we need are small, cute and dumb cars. Who needs cheek-wobbling acceleration and acid-sharp handling when all you want is somewhere safe and comfortable to sit between designer outlets?Step forward the Ka. It's almost 10 years since Ford proved that small can be perfectly formed - though the hilarious phonetic wordplay of its name has now worn as thin as one of Calista Flockhart's arms. However, even the Ka fails as a true 'hairdresser's car' because it is too sensible. It has a roof, four seats and it's cheap (&pound;7,095). And everyone knows that at the bubble-permed heart of frivolous motoring is a studied lack of practicality. Which is where the StreetKa comes good. It has no roof, only two seats and it's expensive ...In the name of 'Sunday-supplement' science, the leading women's car insurer, Diamond, set out to prove its case and spoke to 2,000 hairdressers across Britain to find out what they actually drove. It turns out the StreetKa is three times more likely to be driven by a hairdresser than any other car.And it's easy to see why. It's charming, chic and makes the most of itself. It has a traditional soft top, rather than one of today's ubiquitous folding tea-tray roofs. With the hood down you're left with the double hoops of two brushed-steel roll bars and a neat glass windbreak to stop the breeze playing havoc with your crystal-tipped mullet. The seats are soft and roomy. The doors are large, and open on to a higher than usual driving position which makes the StreetKa easy to hop in and out of - low-slung sports cars are often as difficult to get into as a pair of skinny-fit jeans. So I'm told...From the front it looks like a slightly squashed version of an Audi TT. Angular headlamps complement the spotlights below the bumper. The rear end does look a little heavy - but then the Ford engineers have given it a proper boot to accommodate the bounty of a hard day at the mall. The reversing light, by the way, is where you'd expect the exhaust pipe to be, which is a clever touch, but it does lead you to wonder what they've done with the exhaust pipe.Better still, the coachwork has been inspired by the legendary Pininfarina - even down to wearing its name badge down by the rear wheel a la Ferrari and Maserati. The engine, on the other hand, is a very unhairdryer-like 1.6-litre power box which delivers a top speed of 108mph - Ford could really have got away with half that. And at &pound;12,715 it is definitely on the pricey side. But then, as all hairdressers know, you're worth it.martin.love@observer.co.ukBraking newsPat yourself on the back. In an AA survey of Europeans' driving habits, the Brits were the most tolerant of 'cautious crawlers'. The most irritable were the Germans and the Dutch. So be sure not to dawdle on the autobahn ...
Microsoft has now launched the Xbox 360 in Japan, asReuters reports. It's almost impossible to sell a non-Japanese console there, and Reuters reckons Microsoft only sold "500,000 of its original Xbox consoles in Japan," so projections are not optimistic. However, Microsoft is selling the Xbox 360 in Japan at a low price (about $345) and getting into the Japanese market early -- it won't be launched in South Korea until February 24 and in Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan until March 2.Microsoft has two major problems in Asia. First there's the lack of Japanese games, which Microsoft has tried to address by signing up developers like Square for Final Fantasy XI. The other is the threatened launch of the Sony PlayStation 3, which is currently expected on May 15, 2006. Maybe. If Sony makes that, we could guess that the US launch would be in November and the European launch in May 2007 -- unless Sony breaks with tradition and copies Microsoft's global launch strategy.So whereas users in some European countries users might have to wait up to 18 months for a PS3, an Asian user might only have to wait 2-6 months. They'd therefore be much less likely to pick up an Xbox 360 to be going on with.The big thing in Microsoft's favour is that the earlier Sony launches the PS3, the more money it loses. Market research firmiSuppli has estimated the costof making an Xbox 360 at $552, including $106 for the processor and $141 for the graphics chip. These costs are, of course, disputable. However, the bill for a PS3 is likely to be very much higher, because of the Cell processor and the inclusion of a Blu-ray drive, as well as other extras.In a pre-launch report, The Next Game Consoles, Merrill Lynch estimated the cost of making a Cell processor at $160 compared to the $100 cost of the 360's chip, and "we estimate [the Blu-ray drive] will be at least $75 more expensive than the plain vanilla DVD-ROM drive that Microsoft plans to include in the Xbox 360." As a result, Merril Lynch thought the Xbox 360 would be selling for around $250 when Sony launched the PS3 at around $500.Sony can (and probably will) sell the PS3 for less, of course, but it is not in a strong financial position, and a cut-price PS3 could have a devastating effect on its bottom line. Worse, Microsoft can afford to cut prices to match: indeed, it could keep selling the Xbox 360 for half the price of a PS3 forever, without using up the $40 billion it has in the bank.
When I am using my PC, I tend to get high pitched noise emanating from the monitor. What is causing this and is there anything that I can do about it? The monitor is a fairly ordinary CTX model about three years old. It's driving me to distraction! Mansoor BaigThe best guide I know to monitor problems is the one published bySamuel M. Goldwasser as a RepairFAQ. In partcular, have a look at the section calledHigh pitched whine or squeal from monitor with no other symptoms. There's also aBuzzing monitorsection just before that.The main things you can do are to check the cables (unplug them and then plug them in again) to make sure the contacts are good, and to change the scan rate. As the FAQ says:Confirm that the horizontal scan rate being used by the video card is well within the range supported by the monitor. If it isn't, change it to be a one that is -- in addition to possible whining, this is stressful on the deflection and power supply and may result in an expensive repair in a very short time. Even if the scan rate is supposed to be fine, changing it slightly (e.g., 5 percent) might help just because it shifts the deflection frequency away from a mechanical resonance. However, this may not be a long term solution.I generally don't recommend messing about with the inside of a monitor as this can prove fatal.A local repair shop might be able to find and replace a defective part, if that is causing the hum, but the cost may be high relative to the value of the monitor.
Internet security experts have warned of a computer worm programmed to spread far right propaganda, which is set to hit PCs worldwide next month.Specialists at security firm iDefense say they have cracked the latest variant of the Sober worm, which will launch itself on January 5. Sober first emerged in 2003 and has produced more than 30 strains.Although it does not damage or destroy computers it hijacks systems in order to send out millions of spam email messages continuing Nazi propaganda to random victims. Internet users are advised to update their virus protection.
The Chronicles Of NarniaGame Cube, PS2, XboxThe original book The Lion, The Witch And The Wardrobe doesn't start with bombs dropping on London, but such minor transgressions in the name of fireworks can easily be forgiven. Far more difficult to overlook is this joyless amalgam of recycled play mechanics meaninglessly grafted onto the plot of a film - in this case using the children's individual skills to solve spoon-fed puzzles followed by an awful lot of sub-Lord Of The Rings hack'n'slash. The Chronicles Of Narnia is that most grotesque of specimens, the movie tie-in, has been manufactured with complete disregard for character or quality because legions of kids will get this for Christmas by well-intentioned relatives. On behalf of Britain's children, please don't buy this. Lego Star Wars, on the other hand, is great.&#183;Buena Vista Games, &pound;40Fire Emblem: Path Of RadianceGame CubeNot so much similar to its Game Boy Advance-based little brothers as virtually identical, Path Of Radiance is a tactical turn-based adventure game with more text to read than some novels. When fights break out they use the same scissors-paper-stone weapons triangle in which swords have an advantage over spears, which have an advantage over axes. Although it's as engaging as its miniature ancestor, you can't help feeling severely short-changed by the absence of attempts to use the Game Cube's 3D graphics, multiple joypad ports, vague internet connectivity or surround sound.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;40Pursuit ForcePSPThe PSP's catalogue of driving games is large and growing, giving new petrol-based franchises a tough job to establish their points of difference. Police chaser Pursuit Force adds one very specific move - the ability to jump from your own half-ruined automobile on to the back of a criminal's before pumping him full of lead and making off with his car. And all this takes place at motorway speeds. Although that sounds exciting, and the game itself offers a number of twists on the old chase perpetrators/escort good guys mechanics, its single trick soon pales, and the driving itself never has the elan of Burnout Legends or Ridge Racer. Short-term fun soon gives way to medium-term tedium.&#183;Sony, &pound;35
"We're proud to announce thatdel.icio.ushas joined the Yahoo! family. Together we'll continue to improve how people discover, remember and share on the Internet, with a big emphasis on the power of community. We're excited to be working with the Yahoo! Search team - they definitely get social systems and their potential to change the web. (We're also excited to be joining our fraternal twin Flickr!)" writes Delicious founderJoshua Schachteron his blog.Gary Price atSearch Engine Watch has the newsand some initial comments.
MondayXbox 360: It's not the power supplyXmas No1TuesdayArcade announcementsPeople want advertisingThere's always eBayXbox360 breaks..What a (power-hungry) hogWednesdayIt's not just in-game shooting they're worried about anymore...Ask about gamesRevolution or notNew dance crazeThursdayHalf-realNintendo wi-fi successA great day for driversFridayEA goes mobileLapis for the ladiesAcclaim garage saleSecond hand games
Pre-owned games then - where do you stand? Chances are that you'll see them as only good news. After all, why keep an old title gathering dust on the shelf when you can use it to get money off a new release? Everyone's a winner right? You get a new game for less while the shop gets a chance to make money on your old game (and with less VAT to pay as well). But what if you're a publisher, or perhaps more importantly, a developer. You only get a cut for the original sale - when the game is sold second-hand all the proceeds go to the retailer. Should you care? Yes.Speaking in trade magMCV, EA's UK head Keith Ramsdale complained that, "brand new product is being made to look worthless and some retail outlets are starting to look more like libraries".While complaints from EA are unlikely to tug at your heart-strings spare a thought for the developers. Speaking in the same issue, Simon Phillips ofGusto Gamesreckons the increasing trend for second-hand sales can only hinder developers, who lose out on royalties when their games are sold on. In theory this could lead to even fewer risks being taken in the development process.Of course, part of this issue relates to the fact that games are generally seen as disposable. Sure, some of the classic RPGs and original titles - such as Ico - hold their value, but the majority of games are usually sold on or traded in, especially when a sequel comes along. Sports game are the worst offenders - titles like FIFA 2003 or Pro Evo 2 are practically worthless now.I went into a Game store the other day and have to agree with Ramsdale - it resembled a jumble sale. And a particularly smelly one at that. But there were some undeniable bargains to be had - I sawGod of Warfor 15 quid - and the appeal to the punters was obvious. Clearly the trend won't go away, but with the big publishers and developers expressing concern expect to find a compromise reached between them and retail in 2006. In the meantime, enjoy those cheap games while you can.
It's small, it's white, and it plays music and video: but whatever you do, don't mention the iPod. With Apple's music player set to continue as one of the most in-demand Christmas gifts this year, its biggest rival yesterday unveiled a new product aimed at knocking the iPod off its perch.Singapore-based technology company Creative, which is the world's second largest maker of MP3 players, hopes that its new Zen Vision: M will be able to overtake the iPod by offering a greater range of features at more competitive rates."Number two is a comfortable position to be in, but we are not satisfied," said Sim Wong Hoo, the chairman of Creative, at the global launch in London yesterday. He said the new product was intended to prove a "serious contender to the No 1 out there."The Zen is set to reach British high streets next week, with an expected retail price in excess of 210. It will initially be partnering with digital store 7Digital, which claims it will be Britain's biggest provider of video downloads with a library of more than 10,000 items. Customers can buy music videos from the likes of Coldplay and Gorillaz, or TV shows such as Channel Five's Fifth Gear and cult MTV hit Dirty Sanchez.Portable video hit the headlines when Apple revealed its latest generation iPod with video capabilities in October, and simultaneously revealed distribution deals with American TV network ABC and movie studio Pixar. But while the US iTunes store has now sold more than one million videos, British customers are limited to a much smaller range of downloads.The new year, however, is likely to see a marked increase in competition in the video download arena, as the BBC plans to launch its Interactive Media Player service and Hollywood studios also look to provide content.Mr Sim took the opportunity to fire a few potshots at Apple, although he steadfastly refused to refer to the company by name - preferring a selection of odd references to "you know who" and "our major competitor". Mr Sim also claimed that there was now a "syndrome of being too small, slim, scratched and cracked", a less-than-oblique reference to faults discovered with the small iPod nano.
PearLyrics has been forced off the net by the Warner Chappell music publishing company, and America's Music Publishers' Association (MPA), which represents US sheet music companies, plans to launch a campaign against such sites next year, according toBBC News. "MPA president Lauren Keiser said he wanted site owners to be jailed.""I just don't see why PearLyrics should infringe the copyright of Warner Chappell because all I'm doing is searching publicly-available websites," PearLyrics developer Walter Ritter said. "It would be different if they had an alternative service that also provided lyrics online and also integrated [with iTunes] like PearLyrics did. But they don't offer anything like that at all."The BBC report says that "David Israelite, president of the National Music Publishers' Association, added his concerns.""Unauthorised use of lyrics and tablature deprives the songwriter of the ability to make a living, and is no different than stealing," he said.
I meant to blog about this ages ago, but somehow got sidetracked. The liquidations company charged with overseeing the unsightly demise of videogame publisher Acclaim has set up anauction siteto sell off the rights to the company's back catalogue of titles. Currently, the Extreme G series has attracted the highest bid at $75,000, but the Re-Volt titles are also attracting strong interest with a $40,000 bid in place. Strangely, no-one seems interested in infamous PC beat-'em-up Rise of the Robots or Mary Kate &amp; Ashley Girl's Night Out.However, the term 'rights' is ambiguous - what exactly will the buyers get? Surely they're not expecting the sole rights to the brands? Sega, the developer of 18 Wheeler and F355 Challenge, might have something to say about that. Perhaps ownership is limited to re-releasing the specific iterations on the list.Whatever, it's hard to image while looking at this site that, 15 years ago, Acclaim was a major player in the games industry. Can you image EA going out like this?
From Seattle P-I: Lake Bill on Microsoft's Redmond campus, as viewed in Windows Live Local.Microsoft has launched a beta test version ofWindows Live Localon its Live portal. It combines existing features from Microsoft's Virtual Earth, MapPoint mapping and information services, with extra eye candy in the form of 45-degree bird's-eye views of major US cities covering about a quarter of the population.NewsFactor says:To create the service, images were captured via airplane by Pictometry International and integrated with road and satellite maps to simulate 360-degree panoramas that can be viewed from four compass directions. On-screen navigational tools and preview tiles provide directional views or close-up views.Users can point to a location and obtain the appropriate directions even without having to enter a mailing address. Driving direction are delivered with bird's-eye or satellite views, with construction areas on the route identified. And an updated version of Microsoft Location Finder is also available in Windows Live Local for those using Wi-Fi-enabled computers.TheSeattle P-I newspaper blogadds: "During a demo earlier this week, Microsoft's Stephen Lawler and Steve Lombardi were able to use the feature to zoom in and show methe window of the room where they were speaking. The bird's eye views, available in major cities, can also be combined with driving directions to see the intersections where you have to turn.Comment:As with Google Maps etc, you can easily move the photos around (up to the edge of each photo). The stuff I tried worked amazingly well, but updates were a bit slow and the servers gave the odd busy signal. Also, the view is so close that many large structures aren't complete in one picture (Luxor, LV; Transamerica Building, SF; Golden Gate Bridge etc). But if you need to book a hotel room and a string of meetings in a strange (US) city, this is a killer application.
