Who wants to watch TV on their mobile phone? We all have better things to do when we are out and about, and so far, video content available on mobile networks has been poor quality and expensive."When I'm moving, I don't want to watch moving content," says Eddie Murphy, manager of Cambridge's Communications Research Network. "And when I'm static, there are better ways to deliver it."Mobile operators and phone makers, however, aren't letting this put them off. They expect to deliver TV services to phones as early as next year. And commercial trials already seem to prove there is demand.For the past three months, 500 people in Helsinki have been paying from &euro;5 to &euro;15 a month, for up to 20 channels, delivered on Nokia 7710 multimedia phones. "It's a real trial, to find out how people use the service - and what they are willing to pay for it," says Markus Lindqvist, of Nokia Ventures Organisation. The data, he says, is encouraging.About 15 trials are underway, including one in Oxford run by O2 and Nokia. The main difference from previous ones is that the data is broadcast using a technology called DVB-H and not sent over the cellular network. Phones pick it up like FM radio, making it cheap and easy to send to many users at the same time.This is a big contrast from services that deliver TV over 3G data links, such as Orange's MobiTV system, which broadcasts CNN and ITV news and ran a loop of Glastonbury content last month. "There are nine or 10 channels, and more in negotiation," says Orange spokesman Mat Sears. "You download a free application, and the first three months of TV is free. After that, it's a flat rate of &pound;10 a month for 24 hours use in a week." MobiTV is visible on Nokia 6680 handsets wherever Orange has 3G coverage.Broadcast technology should beat that hands down, says Lindqvist. "When you deliver TV over a two-way network, the content needs to be delivered separately to each recipient. To deliver a three-minute news clip simultaneously over cellular data to 100,000 people in a city could take all day. If you do it broadcast, it actually takes less than three minutes."Pocket TVs can do the same thing of course, but mobile phones have three big advantages. First, they are in your pocket already. Second, they come with a ready-made back channel. Interactive TV can use the cellular network. "Many TV providers see that this really adds value into what they are offering as content," says Lindqvist.The phone also comes with a ready-made billing system. "Billing is expensive &#91;for the operator&#93;," says Lindqvist. "What the mobile operators bring is their ability to offer this kind of billing service." Content providers could also find it easier to get money from users through mobiles than set-top boxes, because it's just an add-on to a bill.The first commercial services will be about &euro;15 a month, and some in the far east may be free to air, supported by advertising, says Lindqvist. The combination of scalability, better coverage and lower prices is enough to make even sceptics such as Murphy think again. "People might pay &euro;5 to receive TV on a mobile, but they certainly wouldn't pay the price of a dedicated link," says Murphy.DVB-H, or digital video broadcast handheld, uses internet protocol (IP) to handle digital moving pictures. Spearheaded by Nokia, it is now a European standard (agreed by the standards body ETSI), and is also in use in trials in the US. It can squeeze 15 Mbps of data in 8MHz channels, and includes error correction and other features useful for possible poor reception and small receivers.Nokia will launch its first commercial DVB-H phone next year. The trials use an extra backpack unit for the 7710, which adds a DVB-H receiver and makes the phone a few millimeters thicker. Siemens and Samsung have also shown prototype handsets. "We are making the air-interface specification open, so other vendors can join in," says Lindqvist. "Over the next year or so, DVB-H receivers will only be in higher-end terminals. Prices will come down, and in the longer term, the cost will be similar to adding an FM radio."Lindqvist also thinks there will be some commercial services during the first half of next year. "They could be in the far east, or they could be in Europe," he says. The big questions are what content they will have and what spectrum they will use.In the US, trials are happening in Pittsburgh, around 1.5GHz. One company, Crown Castle (co-owner of Britain's Freeview) holds a national licence, and is testing DVB-H - again, with Nokia handsets. Finland also has spectrum definitely allocated to DVB-H. Korea has two variations, DMB (digital multimedia broadcast) and S-DMB (satellite digital multimedia broadcast).In the UK, trials can proceed on temporary licences. There is no spectrum set aside for commercial DVB-H services and, if Ofcom has its way, there never will be. The regulator is keen to allow video broadcasting to mobiles, but has decided that the market should determine what technologies get used."We are no more likely to champion DVB-H than any other technology," says Ofcom spokesman Simon Bates. "We are technology neutral." Licence holders will have to meet technical limitations and international agreements to prevent interference with both geographical and radio-spectrum neighbours.There will be no "DVB-H auction" along the lines of the 3G spectrum auction of 2000, but Ofcom will be disposing of some spectrum over the next few years, which could be valuable to DVB-H providers. "The 'analogue dividend' should be well suited to mobile TV," says Bates. "As we switch over to digital TV by 2012, a fair amount of spectrum could be freed up for use by other services."Before the analogue dividend, DVB-H services may have to borrow spectrum from digital radio, the other digital technology replacing analogue radio broadcasts.Ofcom's neutrality is well advised because DVB-H has competitors. In the US, Qualcomm has MediaFlo, which Lindqvist says is still on the drawing board, while "DVB-H is live and kicking and is based on an open standard", he says.Mobile TV could just be the beginning of broadcast content. Files, clips and audio could be distributed, including software updates or interactive newspapers. Obvious applications would be broadcasting traffic news or emergency information. "People have said the business model is complicated," says Lindqvist. "It is not that complicated but it needs the mobile operators and the broadcasters to cooperate in a new way."The two industries are converging and "it's a matter of finding where the border should go," he says.For now, however, DVB-H means mobile TV, and a way to get more people to consume more media content. "People have spare time when they commute, or in their lunch hours," says Lindqvist. "Today, you read newspapers, or a book, but it could be a new kind of prime time."
Sorry, you're not who you think you areBroadband, for those of you who have not sampled it, is an expressway to omniscience, propelling you into cyberspace before your fingers have left the keyboard. Last week, the Office for National Statistics revealed that the number of people using it has for the first time overtaken those relying on dial-up, and, desperate to secure the best of the action for themselves, service providers are competing to drop prices and increase speed.Perhaps it's no surprise then that some customer services have neither the time nor energy to cope with the multitudes who try to sign up. George Harrison of Hounslow, for instance, is barred from cyber pleasures because he's not who he thinks he is. When he contacted the telecoms company Homecall to set up a broadband connection he was told that there was already an account connected to his telephone number, but to a different address, in the name of Liones Harrison. Harrison had never heard of such a person, but this fact was of no interest to Homecall which, once Harrison had supplied his address, began sending mail made out to his alter ego.Telephone calls became a daily sport for the real Harrison as he tried to persuade Homecall to cancel the phantom account and free up his line so he might move to a more rational company. Oddly, though, he was told that the customer-relations department of this telecoms company does not accept phone calls from customers, and his letters have so far failed to free him.Once Harrison involves Consumer, Homecall suddenly discovers what it was unable to confirm before - that an admin error had conjured up a fictitious customer and blocked his line. A day later, Harrison is called by the company and told that his phone line will be released and that his expenses will be refunded.Promises were made to overhaul its system to make it "more responsive to customers" which might just be in time to assist Isabelle Geesen-Leigh of Bromley. She is still paying for two connections at a house she left in February because Homecall was unable to transfer her account to her new address as promised and is unwilling to close down her old lines. In desperation she cancelled her direct-debit instruction, but reluctantly resumed paying for an unusable service when Homecall threatened court proceedings.What you Wanadoo is,  er, avoid WanadooI've yet to hear back from Homecall on this one, but if Geesen-Leigh does ever prise herself free she'd best avoid rival supplier Wanadoo. Last autumn, M Griffin and his wife of Welwyn Garden City bought themselves a Wanadoo wireless broadband kit and signed up for a monthly service. On paper this looked good - Wanadoo was prompt in informing them that they were up and running. However, there was an impediment: the connection didn't work.Five calls to technical support shed no light on the matter, and eventually the Griffins returned the modem and asked for a refund. Wanadoo, though, saw no reason why an unusable service should not be paid for and so not only did it refuse to repay the cost of the equipment and the monthly fees already deducted but it also insisted that the couple continue to shell out.Wanadoo claims that the Griffins refused a "technical call back" and that without a technical diagnosis the account could not be terminated. Wanadoo evidently feels that its procedures in this case don't bear public scrutiny, however, for it immediately assures Consumer that the account has been closed, payments refunded and apologies made.Bulldog not up  to speedTwenty days is the timescale promised to get new Bulldog customers up and running, but two months on and Ade Rowbotham is still waiting. The customer-support team simply repeat what he can read for himself on the website - that his order is processing - and his written complaints have received no reply. "It's a battle to get any information at all," he laments.If he does ever get his connection he may be disappointed. Philip Clive of London was tempted to go with Bulldog because it offered speed of "up to 4Mbps" but so far he's never made it beyond 3Mbps, despite the fact that he lives close to an exchange and that BT tested the line and assured him that the connection and cabling were excellent. "If these factors don't produce full speed I wonder what additional conditions are required to achieve it," he asks. In a fit of benevolence, Bulldog offered to reduce his monthly subscription, but nothing has happened since.Bulldog, part of Cable &amp; Wireless, promises "less waiting, less hassle, less complexity". Certainly it makes things simpler for itself, if numerous irate customers unearthed by a Google search are anything to go by. Tip one: block phone calls by cutting off queueing customers; direct those who do get through to another option that cuts them off; ignore any inconvenient complaints that permeate the above barricades.Things have got so bad that the Internet Service Providers Association (Ispa) has twice had to reprimand the company in the past month. A Bulldog spokeswoman admits to "less than adequate communication efforts". Two new call centres were opened this month so that customers stand a chance of getting through to flesh and blood and a new online provisioning tracking system should help them keep an eye on their order.The company blames BT for a lot of the delays and errors and says it's working with the telecoms giant to smooth the way for new customers. It takes the spokeswoman a day to secure an activation date for Rowbotham, 66 days after he first signed up, but there is no happy news for Clive. Bulldog blames "issues with an underground cable" and insists that his line will be more stable if it's capped at 3Mbps. His only consolation is that he will get a &pound;5 a month backdated discount one day (it's still being processed a month after it was first promised).Unfortunately, most of us plump for the cheapest fees when we choose a broadband service provider, but it's far more important to scrutinise what you get for your money and go for quality. Always ensure that the company is a member of Ispa which operates a code of practice and offers arbitration for a &pound;15 fee. Its website,www.ispa.org.uk, will tell you more. Otherwise, don't forget the small claims court which, for an &pound;80 fee, hears cases where money is owed or contracts breached. The beauty of it is that you don't have to fund a team of lawyers and, if you lose, you're not faced with huge costs. In some cases, just the written threat of county court proceedings is enough to bring a company to heel.&#183;Write to us at119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email us atconsumer@ guardian.co.uk
Is Gordon Brown helping buy your PC? If you are an employee, he ought to be. After a slow start, a tax-break scheme for personal computers is building momentum. What is needed now are a few tweaks to make sure it reaches those likely to benefit the most.The home computing initiative allows employers to provide PCs to staff without the benefit being taxed as salary. Technically, the deal is a rental, usually over three years, at a maximum of &pound;500 a year. At the end of the period, the employee buys the kit at its market value, typically &pound;10. In practice, this means that anyone who can afford &pound;4.25 a week gets a &pound;1,500 computer without signing up to extortionate credit terms.All parties seem to gain. Employees pay less for a PC from a trusted source, with full warranty. The employer saves on national insurance and gains from an IT literate workforce. (People who use computers at home are less likely to break them at work.) For the chancellor, the payback is longer term. Apart from the usual argument about national competitiveness, an IT literate population means more people able to transact with government electronically, a big potential source of efficiencies.The initiative began in 1999, when the government borrowed a successful Swedish tax break. Unfortunately, Whitehall's talent for complication ensured that only a handful of large companies took it up in the first five years.At the beginning of last year, the Department of Trade and Industry made the initiative more user-friendly by publishing standard guidelines. Since then, some 530 firms, employing 4.5 million people, have joined. The scheme has also been extended to the public sector, a vital step when organisations like the NHS, the police and local councils are computerising like crazy.There is still a fair amount of bureaucracy. For example, the Office of Fair Trading has to give employers individual exemptions from the consumer credit act.There are also gaps. Broadband installations don't qualify for the scheme - in 1999, only the wildest optimists saw broadband as a mass market.The main gap, however, applies to the people who would benefit the most - staff on, or close to, the minimum wage. Even with the best of motives, docking a salary so that it falls under the minimum is illegal. The Fair Pay Commission is supposed to be trying to find a way to allow minimum-wage workers to take part of their pay in kind, while at the same time stopping unscrupulous firms paying their staff in hamburgers.Another gap is retired people. Age is still the biggest factor determining whether an individual uses the internet. A lot of people who retired over the past few years never encountered PCs in school or work - and may never do so unless they are given a hand now.The government's IT strategy, to be published this autumn, will emphasise digital inclusion. Extending the home computing initiative to low earners and people in company pension schemes should be in it.
People who take film photographs nowadays may be poor, artistically passionate about traditional technology or just too stuck in their ways to go digital. The same goes for one of the biggest professional users of photographic film - NHS radiology departments. Nearly 10 years after the first hospital went filmless, allowing doctors to call up x-rays and other images on screen, three-quarters of hospitals still use x-rays with 19th century photographic technology.Whatever the reasons, this failure to go digital is bad news for patients. It wastes time, money and subjects people to extra doses of radiation from repeat tests made necessary when films go missing.The NHS has set a deadline of April 2007 for electronic x-rays to be available everywhere. However, many hospitals still find it difficult to build a business case for the leap - a difficulty which, according to enthusiasts, is fuelled by scepticism among senior clinicians.At London South Bank University, however, student radiographers are already preparing for the new world of Pacs - the picture archiving and communications system. South Bank claims to be the first university in the country to have a fully functional Pacs for teaching purposes.Mike Tatlow, senior lecturer and a practising radiographer, says Pacs's advantages for education parallel its advantages in care. An x-ray film can be in only one place at a time (often the wrong place), while an electronic image can be viewed simultaneously by an infinite number of people.Previously, students would learn their profession from what Tatlow calls a lucky dip of films accumulated over the years. Thanks to Pacs, they can now work on a structured library of images taken from the Pacs at nearby King's College hospital. Because Pacs systems all conform to an informal industry standard called Dicom, the images could be generated by hospitals all over the world.What the students see on screen is identical to live clinical images, except that all identifying details, apart from the patient's age and sex, are removed. Students can zoom in and enhance areas of interest in the image. Tatlow says: "Previously, I'd have just held up a film and said 'what do you think of that?'"The university's Pacs kit, from Agfa, would cost about &pound;85,000 off the shelf, says Tatlow. The set-up, mainly funded by the government's science research investment fund, cuts costs by using off-the-shelf PCs with standard flat screens.The cost of Pacs has fallen dramatically over the past decade. In 1996, when Hammersmith became one of the first hospitals in the world to do away with films, radiologists insisted on working with high-resolution monitors, custom built to mimic traditional viewing boxes. Each screen cost thousands of pounds.However, according to Tatlow, professionals have accepted that for general clinical purposes, standard PC screens produce acceptable images. In spring last year, the NHS cut costs further when it negotiated bulk deals of Pacs as part of the national programme for IT.Since then, however, only three hospitals have installed systems under the new terms.One problem, says Tatlow, is conservatism. "The biggest hurdle is that clinicians are uncomfortable with looking at screens. They want a hard copy. It's very cultural, a question of winning hearts and minds, because the technology is robust."Even at the new prices, it can be difficult for district hospitals to justify the investment. Tatlow says a typical Pacs installation costs more than &pound;5m. "There's not the infrastructure to do that," he says.Although Pacs is a core component of the NHS national programme for IT, the equipment is not funded centrally. Hospitals have to make their own business case, based on annual savings from film and chemicals (typically more than &pound;1m a year) and less wasted time and fewer repeated tests because images can always be called up when they are needed.Pacs can also increase the throughput of a radiology department. The time taken for a chest x-ray can be cut from three minutes to 45 seconds, says Tatlow. "That includes talking to the patient to reassure them."However, thanks to NHS accounting rules, hospital chief executives find it cheaper to pay these running costs rather than invest in new capital. To the frustration of NHS IT chief Richard Granger, the financial regime also makes it more cost effective for hospitals choosing Pacs to lease systems expensively, rather than taking advantage of the new centrally negotiated discounts.Pacs enthusiasts hope long-term business sense will prevail, perhaps helped by a sense of shame about showing patients antique plastic films. In the meantime, Tatlow and his team are preparing for another leap forward. Pacs means that radiologists no longer have to be based in the same hospital, or even in the same country, so South Bank University is working with Hong Kong Polytechnic University on the challenges involved in handling Pacs images on 3G mobile phones.
Much is made of the PlayStation Portable's high-resolution screen.The LCD screen draws you in. It's so compact it makes you view gaming differently. PSP is one of the most beautiful pieces of technology hardware developed in the past five years - it offers an unprecedented degree of freedom. Awesome software titles include Wipe-Out Pure and Ridge Racer.Why didn't Sony stick to the original European launch date rather than hold back units for the US market?America was always due to follow Japan. The launch has been very successful in these markets, with more than 3m units shipped. When we launch in Europe on September 1 &#91;the delayed date&#93;, we aim to have enough stock for demand.Did early computers like the Sinclair ensure we have plenty of good games programmers in the UK?Perhaps, but I think a lot of programmers can't remember the Sinclair and have been inspired more by the Nintendo NES and SNES systems, Sega's Master System and Mega Drive consoles, and, dare I say it, PlayStation and the N64. Although the Sinclair range and the Amiga 500 computer defined an era and changed the face of gaming, the speed of technological change including the internet and the inspiration it passed on have ensured the UK has good games programmers.What countries are producing the best games?Companies such as Guerrilla (www.guerrilla-games.com), from Holland, which produced the ground-breaking first person shoot-'em-up Killzone, are doing great things with the PS2 technology. In the UK, companies such as Relentless, which is working on a B-Boy game, and Studio Soho, which produces The Getaway franchise, EyeToy and Sing Star are pushing the capabilities.Is online viral marketing a major component in any ad campaign?The 21st century is the information age. Providing information and entertainment content is an essential part of the marketing mix. If online communications are not providing the right notes, brand currency may suffer.Is a wireless option essential for mobile gaming devices?Ultimately it is about choice and offering more value for money. The PSP's wireless gaming option allows the gaming fraternity to be mobile and connected and it will lead to more accessible communal gaming experiences.Broadband?I wouldn't be without it. I have discovered the joys of a wireless connection, using the Apple Airport Express router. I've used it to test online games such as Hardware and Killzone.Gadgets?I love my Cybershot T3 5.1 megapixel camera. It's light and the picture quality and editing facilities are awesome. I use my Clie CSK-002 personal organiser to take pictures of venues and then I download them. It stores my ambitions, diary and thoughts. I would like a purple Force FX lightsaber like the one used by Mace Windu in Star Wars, and I need new batteries for my blue Luke Skywalker lightsaber.Visit:www.yourpsp.comCarl Christopher's bookmarkswww.adidas.comwww.limewire.comhttp://movies.yahoo.comwww.nike.comwww.amazon.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Dance and duelSid Meier's PiratesXbox, &pound;39.99Take 2, ****No science fiction, fast cars or urban violence. Pirates is a breath of fresh air for the Xbox. Set in the Caribbean, this mix of trading, swordplay, dancing and sailing bears all the hallmarks of Civilization designer Sid Meier.At the beginning, you are given a ship and a starting country. What you do next is up to you, but it is likely you will want to attack enemies. Or maybe you'd prefer to seduce, and eventually marry, the local governor's daughter by dancing and showering her with gifts? These aims and more are achieved through a series of mini-games.For example, dancing is performed by responding to the on-screen directions, while fencing on the ship deck is an addictively straightforward you- thrust-I-parry affair. But while these mini-games are quite simplistic they fit in perfectly with the wider action. Pirates really is greater than the sum of its parts. The real pleasure is the open-ended feel, although it is more focused than the original PC title. Players are free to plunder the seas and explore, but the basic story - rescuing your kidnapped family - is easily returned to.Pirates won't win any graphic or audio awards, but this is all about getting drawn into your character's world. Having the option to dance as well as duel helps widen the appeal. There are precious few games on the Xbox that make use of your brain and your brawn. Pirates does though, and for that reason alone it deserves a place in your game collection.Greg HowsonRestore the faithWorms 4: MayhemPlayStation 2, Xbox, PC, &pound;29.99Team 17/Codemasters, ***Gamers of a certain age ought to be aware of Worms. This 10-year-old franchise, which concentrates on simple but satisfying gameplay, has sold a total of more than 9m units.Nevertheless, Worms 4: Mayhem has a lot to prove. Its predecessor was the first attempt at a 3D version, and it was not a complete success; a recalcitrant camera and clunky worm movement meant it provided as much frustration as enjoyment, and left one yearning for the 2D games of yore.Mayhem, happily, solves those problems to a large extent - it is now simplicity itself, for example, to trigger a top-down or first-person view, a helpful radar shows you where enemy worms are hidden and your worms no longer get stuck on almost imperceptible undulations in terrain.The gameplay is still gloriously simple: your team takes it in turns to pick off enemy worms using a variety of amusing weaponry, and useful items such as ninja ropes and parachutes.But despite new weapons (of which the Inflatable Scouser - which grabs enemy worms and floats into the sky before self-immolating or dropping them into the water - is the most amusing), new territory-based multiplayer modes and an editor that lets you create your own outlandish weaponry, the game feels a bit too similar to what has gone before.At least the Xbox version can be played via Xbox Live. Devotees of the franchise will find that Mayhem restores their faith, but those who never developed a commitment will probably find the game underwhelming.Steve BoxerFeel the vibesSplinter Cell: Chaos TheoryNintendo DS, &pound;29.99Ubisoft/Gameloft, **One of the best things about Splinter Cell games is that they drop you into what feels like proper action rather than a handholding mission thinly disguised as training. There is training in Chaos Theory, but it is described as such and once you get into the proper stuff, you genuinely feel the cool and stealthy vibe of Sam Fisher.Unfortunately, you feel somewhat less cool trying to get used to the way the controls have been adapted for the DS. Movement is done through the D-pad, while weapon changing, camera angle and aiming are done through the lower touch screen.The game encourages you to be as stealthy as possible, but that's more because of the ungainliness of the controls than any genuine gameplay feature. Many of the problems arise if you get spotted by a guard, as it is quite tricky to turn and aim accurately without finding yourself running into a wall or floundering about.The game's manual mentions two "mini games" but this basically means lock-picking (an easy trial-and-error game) and tapping numbers into a keypad. It is nice to see alarm levels back, which add an extra challenge, but a rather dodgy frame-rate and blocky graphics, mixed with cumbersome controls, don't do anything to recommend this adaptation.Rhianna PratchettTop 5 gamesPC1.Battlefield 22.Half-Life 23.Guild Wars3.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas5.The Sims 2&#183;Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, &copy; 2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Looking for limitsNTLworld, my service provider, has a 10MB limit on the size of my mailbox. If I have 9MB of mail in my mailbox and a 2MB email comes along, they bounce it. Can anything be done?Alan FosterJack Schofield replies:Yes, stop using a mail service that is clueless enough to have a 10MB mail limit when Google's Gmail provides more than 2,000MB free. There are other excellent alternatives, such as Yahoo Mail (http://mail.yahoo.com), Bluebottle and HotPOP - seewww.emailaddresses.comfor more. It is best not to use an ISP-supplied email address, as this causes problems when you want to change your ISP. Instead, buy your own domain name with mail forwarding, such as alanfoster.co.uk, then you can have your email forwarded to any mailbox you like. When you decide to change your ISP or your mail service or both, you can easily change the forwarding address. If you take this route, choose an email service that lets you set your email address (eg alan@alanfoster.co.uk) as the Reply-To address.Travel chargersCan you suggest a way of minimising the number of chargers required on a business trip to China? One each for the laptop, phone, camera, PDA and toothbrush? We used to pack clothes and shoes to travel. Now there is a tangled nest of wires, transformers and adaptors.Judith ChegwiddenJS:I have survived so far by buying products that take standard AA cells or, if not, can be charged via a laptop's USB port. Even then you still need a different cable for each device, so there's not much saving.Getting highI am experiencing very high CPU usage levels in Windows XP. The puzzling thing is, Windows Task Manager does not show the processes being used.Ray HoogewerfJS:There is a much better, but geekier, alternative to Windows Task Manager, and it is free: Process Explorer (www.sysinternals.com). This provides a much clearer view of the running processes, and also shows what kinds of service the various examples of SVCHOST are supporting (eg Winsock, COM ports etc). Like Windows Task Manager, it provides a colour-coded display of CPU usage when minimised. I have also run it from a USB memory drive to identify and terminate Trojans or viruses that may be hiding in memory. However, the problem is more likely to be a "runaway" process, typically Internet Explorer.Moving addressWhat is the best way to transfer my Outlook address book data to an iPod?Adam WhitfieldJS:I don't know the best way, but lots of programs will do this. Examples include iPodSynch, PocketMac iPod Edition for Windows, Anapod Explorer, EphPod and Outpod. From software version 1.1, the iPod supports the standard vCard format used by many or most computer-based address books.Swiss Army knifeG2 published an interesting article on the Swiss Army knife. It described a version with a USB port that allows you to link your knife to your computer but, to my bafflement, gave no clue as to why you would want to do this.Sally MacEachernJS:The Victorinox Swiss Memory USB doesn't actually connect the knife to the computer, it is just a handy way of carrying around a detachable USB Flash memory drive. The USB-less CyberTool 41 looks more useful, though real geeks buy Leathermans.Backchat&#183;Ian Tanner was suffering from cut-offs when printing pages from Internet Explorer. Craig Stott, Michael Turland, Jim Docking, Jim McLean and others suggested printing in landscape mode. Ian's original letter said he had tried this but he felt it wasted too much paper. Alan Harrison and Howard Stern suggested highlighting the portion you want to print and then printing that selection. Jim Docking and Jackie Walker suggested copying and pasting text into Microsoft Word. Patrick Lonergan uses a program called Easy-WebPrint, which was supplied with his Canon printer (www.canoneasywebprint.com/en/). Fineprint is a commercial alternative that does a very nice job at too high a price (www.fineprint.com)&#183;Anne Newbould was looking for free black-and-white illustrations for a local magazine. Ihar Ivanou says: "Many users of Flickr.com allow the use of their works free of charge. It is a great resource for DTP." Dexter Ward says: "Have a look at Dover Books (www.doverbooks.co.uk). They do a huge range of copyright free books, some already on CD-Rom." Huw Lyan Thomas suggestswww.istockphoto.comfor its wide range of images: "Photos aren't free, but at $1, $2 or $3 (depending on resolution) it is hard to see how they could be any cheaper."&#183;Send comments and questions toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Letters will be edited but include full details
A Briton accused of "the biggest military computer hack of all time" appeared in a London court yesterday to contest extradition to the US on charges that he interfered with US military and other government computers before and after the 9/11 attacks.Gary McKinnon, 39, of Wood Green, north London, faces extradition for allegedly accessing 97 US government computers between February 2001 and March 2002, causing $700,000 (&pound;370,000) worth of damage.One of the allegations relates to his deleting operating system files and logs from computers at the US naval weapons station Earle at a critical time after the attacks on September 11 2001, rendering the base's entire network of more than 300 computers inoperable.He is also accused of shutting down the entire network of more than 2,000 computers operated by the US army's military district in Washington DC, "significantly disrupting" the functioning of the US government.Mark Summers, for the US government, told Bow Street magistrates that Mr McKinnon's hacking was "intentional and calculated to influence and affect the US government by intimidation and coercion".When he was arrested and interviewed in March 2002, Mr McKinnon, who used the online name Solo, admitted that his ultimate goal was to gain access to the US military classified information network, said Mr Summers.He also admitted leaving a note on one US army computer that read: "US foreign policy is akin to government sponsored terrorism these days ... it was not a mistake that there was a huge security stand-down on September 11 last year ... I am Solo. I will continue to disrupt at the highest levels."Yesterday, he spoke only to confirm his name in court. However, in a Guardian interview this month, he said he had hacked into the computers because he believed the US government was hiding evidence of UFOs.In all, Mr McKinnon is charged with 20 counts of stealing files and obtaining secrets that might have been "directly or indirectly useful to an enemy". He was arrested under the Computer Misuse Act but was never charged in the UK.Mr Summers said that between February 2001 and March 2002 Mr McKinnon, working from home in London, had gained unauthorised access to 97 government computers. He had identified the US government network computers via the internet using "an open Microsoft Windows connection", said Mr Summers. Having got access to administrative accounts, he then installed unauthorised remote access and administration software that enabled him to remotely control and alter data on the US computers without detection."He effectively owned those computers by virtue of the software that he had transmitted," said Mr Summers.Following the submission of the extradition request, the hearing was adjourned to allow Mr McKinnon's solicitors time to collect expert witness evidence.He was granted bail to appear at Bow Street magistrates again on October 18.Speaking at the time of the indictment, Paul McNulty, the attorney for the eastern district of Virginia, said: "Mr McKinnon is charged with the biggest computer hack of all time."
If you're worried about the future of digital technology, you probably watch the news. You most likely read about the pursuit of file sharers by America's entertainment bodies, such as the Recording Industry Association of America. You possibly know about Disney's efforts to keep its cartoons copyrighted forever, preventing millions of books, films and music from entering the public domain. You may even have tracked the plot by Hollywood broadcasters to cripple how viewers might use digital TVs.While these conflicts are tremendously important, they are more than 3,000 miles away. Battles for Britain's digital future are taking place more locally - yet we barely hear the fights here.It is not for lack of activity. British supporters of digital freedoms and rights - the right to create your own media; to speak freely online; to control, explore and improve the technology around you - fight hard and win. Groups like the Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure recently won the battle in the European Parliament against software patents. Digital campaigners Stand stopped everyone from the egg marketing board up from having the right to read your ISP's logs and your mobile phone records. The No2ID campaign is putting up a fight over ID cards. And all on a shoestring.I had a minor involvement in some of those campaigns. Now I work in America, in its cyber-rights organisation, the Electronic Frontier Foundation. The funded presence of the EFF is a major reason why you hear the US stories. When journalists need a quote, there's a press person to give them one. When the RIAA says something, we get calls from those who want to find out the truth.In Britain, when industry bodies such as the British Phonographic Industry or the British Software Alliance phone journalists or brief MPs, they don't mention that there are thousands who disagree with their approach. British journalists - and their readers - don't learn the downside of the UK music industry's plans to extend UK copyright for 100 years.While the minutiae of America's digital TV transition are mulled in congress and on websites such as Slashdot, few know that your right to record UK digital channels is being decided behind closed doors, with barely a speck of public input.This weekend, I was on a panel bemoaning the lack of a useful clearing house for British digital freedoms. We worked out how much it would cost to get an office and pay a few people to answer calls, forwarding them to the many activists and experts. We worked out how much it would cost to start knocking out the position papers that get attention, and change the minds of the press and politicians.We thought with a 1,000 people paying a fiver a month, we could manage it - and maybe get enough seed money to start building a bigger organisation, too.So we're having a virtual whip-round. You can find the hat at Pledgebank. We might then get to hear from all sides: both sides of the battle for UK digital freedoms, and both sides of the Atlantic.&#183;Register your support by visitingwww.pledgebank.com/rights&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
HardwareMinistry of audioMinistry of Sound Audio has unveiled a new range of music players, including a top-end 20GB hard disk-based jukebox. The MOSMP080, or The Edge as it more likely to be known, is finished in black and sports a two inch colour screen on its fascia, which is capable of displaying JPeg images. It will playback MP3 and WMA files, including WMAs downloaded from online music stores, and is due later in the year for &pound;200. Ministry has also delivered a 5GB hard disk jukebox, the &pound;179.99 MOSMPO55, a pair of Flash memory players at &pound;79.99 and &pound;99.99 each, and two sets of headphones with integrated MP3 players.www.ministryofsound.co.uk/audioMobile DJNumark has announced the forthcoming launch of the iDJ, a two channel mixer for DJs that has been designed specifically to work with iPods. The device can house a pair of classic white or mini Apple players, though not the iPod shuffle, in universal charging docks either side of the deck. Would-be DJs then choose the tracks using the iDJ's click wheel, enlisting its mixing facilities to blend tracks from the two players. Other features include a cross fader, a three band equaliser and a microphone input. Numark will ship the iDJ in the UK later in the year with a retail price of about &pound;400.www.numark.comFace the musiciRiver has unveiled a Flash-based music player that features a unique user interface. The U10 is available in one gigabyte (&pound;179.99), 2GB (&pound;199.99) and 512MB (&pound;159.99) versions. It features a display that doubles as the player's control panel. Users lightly tap the 2.2in colour display to choose tracks or change the volume. The player is compatible with MP3 and WMA audio files, as well as JPeg image and MPeg4 video formats. Other features include an FM tuner, a built-in microphone and an alarm. The players launch at the end of next month. An 8GB hard disk version, which is only a bit larger than existing models, is expected later in the year.www.iriver.comDigital cameraEyes wide openPanasonic is to release the DMC-LX1, its first compact digital camera to feature a widescreen lens. User can take still images or capture video in VGA at 30 frames per second, in either standard 4:3 or 16:9 widescreen formats. The camera features a four megapixel 4x optical zoom lens, a 2.5in LCD monitor, and manual and creative controls operated by a joystick and an omni-directional cursor. It also sports Panasonic's stabilising system, which is designed to counteract unintentional shaking and deliver blur-free images. It will be on sale next month for &pound;449.99.www.panasonic.co.ukMobile phonesSlim pickingsMotorola is to release a Microsoft Windows-powered smartphone with a full Qwerty keyboard as part of its RAZR phone series. The Q, due at the start of next year, is apparently 50% slimmer than any other handset with a Qwerty keypad. It sports a 320 x 240 pixel, 65K TFT LCD screen, runs on Windows Mobile 5.0 and features Microsoft applications Pocket Explorer, Outlook, Word and Windows Media. It also has a 1.3 megapixel camera, Bluetooth, MP3, AAC, WMA and WAV audio file playback and video capture. Motorola promises that the phone will be compatible with a variety of email solutions.www.motorola.co.ukVideo starsItaly will soon be getting its own dedicated videoblogging service thanks to a new development from mobile network 3. The VideoBlog system lets users produce clips by dialling a short code and then recording themselves. Using the service, they can also share their videos. Cost could be a factor for burgeoning video junkies, however, with the initial price set at &euro;0.45 (31p) per minute. The system was developed in conjunction with Mobaila, which aims to roll out similar services in other countries soon.Stat of the week - what does it all mean?Buzz terms like RSS might be popular at the bleeding edge, but are little understood in the mainstream. A survey of US surfers found that less than a third understood phishing, while just 13% grasped podcasting. Figures for spam and spyware were better, however.
Microsoft disappointed many geeks last week by announcing the name of its next version of Windows, while preparing to ship the first beta test version next Wednesday. What has previously been called Longhorn, after a friendly apres-ski bar close to Whistler mountain in British Columbia, will be launched late next year as Windows Vista.Jim Allchin, group vice president responsible for the NT (New Technology) Windows line, had the final say, but essentially the name is the result of an eight-month consultation with partners and focus groups. Nothing original was likely to survive that process.The problem is that although Vista is a Microsoft operating system, tens of thousands of companies, maybe millions of jobs and hundreds of billions of non-Microsoft dollars are riding on it. The name has to work in dozens of languages, in hundreds of countries. It also has to work for the vast number of PC manufacturers, programmers and others who actually sell, install and maintain versions of Windows, not to mention more than half a billion users.Vista's marketing slogan is Clear, Confident, Connected: Bringing Clarity to your World. This reflects Vista's aims, which include making it easier for users to organise and enjoy their digital media, and the new translucent 3D visual interface, Aero Glass, which will appear in the second beta test version.The "connected" bit covers the internet and the digital hub idea that Microsoft has been working on for a decade. Apple's Steve Jobs may have coined the term about five years later, but Microsoft actually built it. This involved creating a new operating system for consumer electronics devices, Windows CE, which now runs on mobile phones, PDAs, television set-top boxes and portable music and video players. Microsoft has also developed the end-to-end software for hosting, distributing and playing audio and video files, including TV programmes, both over the internet and via phone lines.Of course, with Windows XP, you can already use a Windows Media Center PC as an HDTV set and video recorder with TiVo-like capabilities, and beam digital media to other devices - such as an Xbox games console - via Windows Media Extenders.Vista continues that theme, but with higher quality audio and video, and more security. Inside, it has a Protected Media Path (PMP) intended to ensure that what Microsoft calls "rogue software" can't "steal" content. This involves encrypting content as it goes via accessible components such as PCIe expansion slots and video cards.If Microsoft can make online distribution and PC-mediated playback more secure than alternatives such as CDs and DVDs, Hollywood and the media industries will probably give it massive support. However, "more secure" also means "much more restrictive". Home users are not going to like that.Microsoft is betting that Windows Vista users will give up some freedom in exchange for greater security. Like it or not, that seems to be the way the world is going.Windows Vistawww.microsoft.com/windowsvistaWinsupersite Vista FAQwww.winsupersite.com/vista/
Just when more people than ever are using hands-free mobile phone devices while driving, a new report reveals that they may not, in fact, be safer than hand-helds.The study, from the George Institute at the University of Sydney, Australia, in association with the University of Western Australia, found that - among those involved in serious car crashes - using a hands-free device had increased the risk of a crash fourfold over those who did not use a mobile phone at all. For the purposes of the study, a serious crash meant one in which the driver needed to go to hospital. While the severity of injuries varied, 93% of the drivers had one injury as a result of their accident and 43% had two.The study involved 400 drivers taken to three major hospital emergency departments in Perth. The circumstances of the crashes were cross-checked with the drivers' phone records and similar journeys they had undertaken in the weeks running up to the crashes. More than half of the participants reported having a hands-free device in their car.Senior research fellow Dr Suzanne McEvoy stressed that the study took into account all sorts of hands-free kits, including wired kits and car kits, and that the current generation of Bluetooth headsets were used only by a minority. "Bluetooth became available towards the end of the study and voice activation was a feature available to 6% of our phone users," she said. In other words, full hands-free operation was only available to a minority of participants, with the rest using their hands for dialling or pressing buttons to hang up.Headset manufacturers greeted the news with caution. In a statement, Jabra pointed to the mix of hands-free equipment in use, quoting a passage from the report that concedes that "the distracting effect of different types of hands-free phones may not be equivalent - for example, searching for an earpiece to answer an incoming call may be more distracting than answering a phone mounted in a hands-free kit".The company pointed out that by definition, using a hands-free headset must mean a driver has both hands free to drive and that it is presumably safer than a button-operated model.Even in these circumstances, however, the company reminds drivers that safe driving rules must still apply. "If they have to make or receive a call, customers should always ensure it's safe to do so, and keep the conversation as short as possible," said a statement."If a call becomes too difficult or distracting, it is advised that the customer ends the call immediately and calls back after they find a safe place to stop."Jabra offers four safety tips, including pre-programming the phone with frequently used numbers and voice control, ensuring the headset is securely on before the journey starts, terminating calls as soon as they become too involved or the driving becomes too difficult, and ensuring only essential calls are made - the rest can go to voicemail.Dr McEvoy pointed to two sources of trouble for drivers making calls: physical distraction, such as fiddling with headsets; and cognitive distraction, such as if the call gets too involved. "It is possible that the fully hands-free may mitigate the risk of crash but this needs to be further investigated," she said. "That said, as the cognitive distraction cannot be eliminated with fully hands-free, the risk of crash may still be raised."Dr McEvoy also discounted other factors, such as the age or gender of the driver, influencing the likelihood of a crash taking place.Later this year, Sony Ericsson will release a headset that includes caller identification on a display panel on the side. UK marketing manager Richard Dorman said there was nothing new in the research, as driving while distracted might already be against the law. "If there is an incident, the use of any phone or similar device might justify charges of careless or dangerous driving," he said."Sony Ericsson supports government legislation unconditionally and does not condone the use of any communication equipment that might distract the attention of a driver."Interestingly, there is no mention &#91;in the report&#93; of other types of distractions that can be found in a vehicle, such as radios, CD players, TV displays, navigation equipment and even passengers."Using a hand-held phone while driving became illegal in the UK in December 2003. The report's authors acknowledge that outlawing all calls while driving would be difficult to enforce, but stand by their concerns.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
We are just a few months away from the arrival of three of the most eagerly awaited mobiles of the year. Sony Ericsson's W800i Walkman phone will debut next month, Motorola's iTunes-compatible ROKR handset will follow soon after, and Nokia's N91 will arrive in the autumn. Yet all three will enter a crowded music phone market: here are the handsets they will be up against.Orange SPV C550The latest incarnation of the Windows smartphone features a higher quality screen and camera. It has a quartet of music -playing buttons on its fascia and is compatible with MP3 and WMA files. The player is easy to use, and there's easy access to Orange's Music Player download service, too. The amount of storage (128MB on a mini SD card) is reasonable. The onboard speakers are good for a phone of its size. However, because the phone doesn't use a standard 3.5mm jack, you are committed to using the headset provided, which are cheap and rather nasty sounding. This is a refinement of a quality handset, rather than a new music phone.www.orange.co.ukO2 XMThis compact clamshell handset includes a 1.3 megapixel camera and games, but no Bluetooth or email. The music features are simple to use and it comes with an adaptor, so you can use any standard earphones. The phone is compatible with MP3 and AAC+ (for O2's music download services). The onboard speakers sound tinny and the supplied 64MB SD card is not enough, although you can add higher capacity cards. O2 hasn't really integrated its music service into the phone very well.www.o2.co.ukSamsung SGH-E720Samsung's budget clamshell features a megapixel camera, Bluetooth and an impressive external OLED screen. It is compatible with many music formats, including MP3, AAC+ and AAC. The onboard speaker is better than some of its rivals, and prominent music control keys on the front mean you don't have to open the clamshell to operate the player. But it is hampered by very limited storage - just 64MB, and this is not upgradeable. The earphones are poor quality and can't be replaced. It's a pleasant phone, but not a rival to the iPod. It is available on most networks.Sharp Vodafone 902It has a bulky handset but features an excellent MP3 player.www.vodafone.co.ukMotorola E1000Good music player with quality stereo speakers.www.three.co.uk
Dollar dilemmaThe arguments you were given regarding the difference in transatlantic technology prices (Second sight, July 21) are a blind. If you study the accounts of large software vendors, such as Microsoft, Adobe and others, you will see they all make hedge provisions for currency gains and losses. They are not that great at it, but they try.Look also at inventories - they are usually kept as low as possible, so there is no reason why they can't apply dynamic pricing and hedge for the inventory. The small providers work on dynamic pricing as it is the only way that makes sense to the consumer. The consumer is being worked over. It doesn't happen in the enterprise market. The accounts of SAP/Oracle and others are littered with explanations that talk about profits or losses on product because it is priced in dollars for everyone.Dennis HowlettWorking orderRegarding Jack Schofield's article on the death of OS/2 (Column, July 21): those of us who used computers and developed software on PCs remember how, 20 years ago, the severe limitations of DOS PCs was threatening to strangle the emerging PC market. This manifested itself in several ways: limited APIs (which often had to be reverse-engineered); no multi-tasking, multi-user features; and minimal graphic user interfaces (leaving aside the woeful Windows 1.0). Most difficult was coping with the 640k memory limit (so unwisely described by Bill Gates as "enough for anyone"). It was obvious that a new generation OS was required for PCs.Unix was only just starting to make an impact in the industry and was for years restricted to high-end servers and very expensive workstations. The decision to build the new OS was both inevitable and unavoidable. The creation of OS/2 was accompanied by disastrous decisions - in particular, as the article points out, basing it on a brain-damaged chip. However, OS/2 was a perfectly good server platform for applications and a perfectly good workstation.The reasons why Microsoft decided to compete with its own collaboration with IBM were political and economic, not technical. So Microsoft launched Windows 3.0, which it used to mortally wound OS/2. But this was certainly not the platform that evolved to become Windows XP, as this was based on Windows NT, which Microsoft created from scratch and launched in the mid-90s.The story of OS/2 should remind us that success is often down to effective marketing rather than technical superiority. The result is that we struggle more than we should have to against the limitations of the computers that most of us use.Ian ReissmannHenleyContent controlMichael Cross's article on the problems of running a central London website when all the real information is in the 33 borough sites struck a chord (Public domain, July 21). I recently went through all 33 to bring together information for a transport planning website. Sometimes the information was easy to find, sometimes not. Maybe it calls for a content management system defining which areas the boroughs should cover, then farming appropriate pages out to content editors in each borough. The boroughs could still run their own sites in part, but key deadline-driven planning and policy content could be made available for Londoners to see if they were short-changed in relation to neighbours.Dave CheseldineNottinghamOut in the openIt was an interesting and thoughtful debate about the BBC's Creative Archive (Online, passim). We have the same problems in Sweden with our Open Archive but are trying hard to make deals with the copyright owners. It is very annoying to have to pay a second time for this kind of archive material - especially considering the importance of showing a broader public the history of a century dominated by TV, films and photos.Andr&eacute; WachholzStockholmThe right routeIf Don Montague (Feedback, July 21) wants to continue using a dynamic IP address, then he needs to route all his outgoing email through his internet service provider. He can still receive email on his own server, but IP blacklists make sending from dynamic IP addresses very difficult. Or he could choose an ISP that will provide him with a static IP address not on a blacklist.Susannah ConnellBluntishamBlogbackI believe Mary Branscombe (Second sight, July 21) has been fobbed off. Do you expect the price of your meat and vegetables at Tesco to be exactly the same from one week to another? Of course you don't. So why should software be different? The likes of Adobe and Microsoft should give non-US punters a square deal, and save themselves and their customers a lot of money. Everyone (except the channel, in the short term) wins. It's not as though there is a huge competitive pressure - or is there?www.bazaarz.com
Danish company KiSS Technology has done more than most to promote the idea of the connected home. Its latest device, the &pound;350 DP-558, is a DVD player/hard disk-based video recorder that can hook up to a home network to access audio, image and video files stored on another PC/hard disk in the system.The web-based electronic programming guide (EPG) is easy to use and makes recordings with little fuss. It can be accessed remotely via a PC or mobile phone, but you have to use its Ethernet connection. To use the DP-558 wirelessly you need a &pound;50 wireless bridge.Recording quality was quite good and up to 80 hours of TV can be stored on the 80GB hard disk. The DP-588 streams files easily from a PC, too. Less impressive was the DVD playback quality, with resolution and picture stability a little disappointing. Oddly, the DVD has no facility to record. Overall, it is a quality device with neatly integrated facilities that is nevertheless lacking a few features.www.kiss-technology.com
Granville Technology, the company behind Time and Tiny computers, yesterday called in administrators which said within hours of arriving at the firm that it could not continue as a going concern.Almost all of the group's 1,600 workers at its Burnley factory and in the group's 78 Computer Shop stores will be made redundant, administrators from Grant Thornton said."The group has fallen victim to the continued price deflation in the personal computer market, exacerbated by a softening of consumer demand in recent months and pressure from suppliers," the administrators said. "These redundancies were therefore inevitable."Customer aftercare provision under manufacturer warranties and extended three-year warranties are expected to disappear, save for a call centre helpline. There are thought to be hundreds of thousands of warranties outstanding on Tiny and Time PCs and laptops, many with schools and colleges that bought equipment from the group's Time Education division. Management accounts show that Granville had been losing between &pound;1m and &pound;2m a month since January.Graham Coxon, Lancashire organiser of the GMB union, said: "We are devastated by the number of job losses, 600 of which are in Burnley. The GMB is angry that management has let the company run down to this point without saying anything."We will be asking the Department of Trade and Industry to launch an investigation to find out what happened and how it happened."Some workers leaving the Burnley factory last night told reporters they were concerned about receiving wages.The collapse of Granville comes three years after it acquired Tiny Computers out of administration. Tiny folded with debts of more than &pound;35m. Two executives, who are unconnected to Granville, were banned from holding directorships after an inquiry by the DTI.The directors were found not to have made adequate provision to cover customer warranties in the event of the business going under.Grant Thornton, which acted as administrator to Tiny three years ago, will now be required to file a detailed report on the conduct of Granville directors during the group's demise. There is no evidence to suggest wrongdoing by Granville directors.Granville's main creditors are its bank, HSBC, and US computer chip maker AMD. The net liabilities are estimated by sources close to the situation to be about &pound;50m. Grant Thornton did not give a figure.Mike Ellis, one of the administrators from Grant Thornton, said: "We are hopeful of putting in place customer support through a call centre operation. Anything beyond that - we will have to wait and see."Customers who placed orders for Tiny or Time products and are awaiting delivery will not receive their goods or a refund. They should be entitled to a refund from their credit card company if payment was made by credit card.Granville is owned through companies in the British Virgin Islands and Jersey by 34-year-old businessman Tahir Moshan. He resigned as managing director last month.Buyer bewarePCs still on saleWoolworths was last night refusing to withdraw Time PCs from its shelves despite administrators insisting the computer firm may not be able to cover warranties.A spokesman for Woolworths said there was no need to tell its customers that Granville Technologies had called in administrators or to inform them of doubts over warranty cover."Whether through Time's administrators or through a third party we will ensure customers are looked after," a spokesman said. "&#91;The collapse&#93; makes no difference to the customer experience."Woolworths refused to reveal how many Time computers it stocked, but the figure is believed to be about 500. It also declined to say if it had cut the price. Cash and carry group Makro was also still selling Time computers without warnings last night.
Key disclosureThe fallout from the recent terrorist attacks in London is initiating action on terrorist websites. The Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) is asking the government for new powers that make it an offence to withhold encryption keys or to use the internet to facilitate acts of terrorism. An ACPO press statement says that counter measures against terrorist activities requires that the tools to do the job are made available and that this legislation would allow the police to disrupt organised terrorism via the web at an early stage.Site probeAnalysts at Gartner claim that 75% of cyber attacks are aimed at web applications. Using this as a springboard, Acunetix, a Maltese security specialist, is launching a penetration tool to analyse a website's vulnerability. Web Vulnerability Scanner 2 is designed to test a website against a range of common attacks. Acunetix says the danger stems from using poorly tested in-house software for applications such as online shopping trolleys. The scanner tests against attacks such as SQL injection and cross-site scripting that have become common methods of attack, bypassing firewalls, SSL and server lock-downs.www.acunetix.comCash planningOnline e-government planning services are anticipating a &pound;170m windfall from the government. The planning delivery grant is being made available to boost the profile of the planning departments in local authorities to improve and speed up planning performance. Last year, 22% of the money went on IT systems, but most of the rest was spent on staffing. The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister says funding will mainly go to authorities who have shown greatest progress in online planning and related areas.www.odpm.gov.ukBackup holesBackup software is the latest vulnerable area to catch the attention of hackers, according to the SANS Institute's latest update of its top 20 security threats listing. The security risk organisation says that backup packages from Veritas and Computer Associates, accounting for almost a third of the market, have multiple vulnerabilities. Backup software is particularly attractive to hackers, it says, because often only the most important information is backed up. To be able to tap into this stream is an attractive proposition for attackers looking for identity information or corporate insights. Although there are fixes for the flaws, many companies are not keeping systems up to date.www.sans.org/pressToken for the driveMicrosoft is turning the screw on its Windows Genuine Advantage programme to try to reduce piracy. Last year, the company launched a voluntary service that allowed users to verify their operating system and receive software upgrades, and about 45m people did so. Now the system is being made compulsory for Windows 2000 and XP users. Users with pirate copies of Windows can fill out a counterfeit report identifying the source, and provide proof of purchase, in return for a free copy of Windows. Those who cannot provide all the required information will be offered a copy at a reduced price. Security updates will still be available to most users with pirate copies. Microsoft says the WGA registration process "does not collect any information that can be used by Microsoft to identify or contact the user", it just leaves a token on the hard drive.Yahoo WidgetsYahoo has bought Pixoria, the three-man company behind Konfabulator and its "widgets" - mini-applications that put information from the internet on users' desktops. More than 1,000 widgets have been developed, and the system became widely known after Apple copied the idea. Yahoo is launching Yahoo Widgets to distribute its information, and will make the $20 Konfabulator software available free.www.widgetgallery.comLong ChromaLifeCanon has introduced a dye-based printing system and special photo papers that make it possible to create long-lasting prints that rival traditional photographs. Canon says the ChromaLife100 prints will resist fading for up to 100 years when stored in a photo album, for up to 30 years when displayed under glass in a photo frame, and for 10 years when exposed to the air. However, print longevity is a source of heated debate in the industry. Epson claims its rival paper and premium inks can produce images that last up to 104 years before showing signs of fading, while HP is claiming 115 years.
Digital cameras have not only changed the way we take pictures but the way we share them, too. And judging by the popularity of the latest digital portable photo-printers, postcard-size (6x4in) prints are back in vogue.Most digital cameras now boast a Direct-Print option or the more widely adopted PictBridge print technology, allowing the camera to connect directly to the printer without using a PC.If your camera isn't supported, however, just choose a model with a built-in memory card reader. The majority have them and they accept all the different card types from the popular camera makers.Most compact photo-printers can produce index sheets for easy reference, as well as print multiple copies of your favourite snaps at similar prices to the high-street labs. We take a look at the top five.1 HP Photosmart 375&pound;175, *****The supplied Bluetooth adaptor means printing from suitably equipped cameraphones is easy. It has a flip-up colour screen and easy-to-follow instructions for reducing red-eye effect from flash shots, a choice of print frames and several quality settings. With outstanding picture quality, lab-like photos can be had in less than two minutes.www.hp.com/uk2 Epson PictureMate 500&pound;180, ****With all the appeal of the original PictureMate, Epson's latest model has an additional quality 2.4in colour LCD for previewing photos, as well as a rechargeable battery. A built-in three-bay card reader covers all the popular memory card types and there is Direct-Print and PictBridge support for wide-ranging compatibility. Also of interest is an optional Bluetooth module for wireless connection to compatible cameraphones and laptops. It goes on sale in the UK soon.www.epson.co.uk3 Lexmark P315&pound;100, ****This is the only printer that can't be connected to a PC and it is a little bulkier than the rest. It packs a 2.5in monitor for use with the two-bay card reader, and has PictBridge support, so it is suitable for most cameras. There are few editing options, but users can crop images to improve composition, adjust the brightness and print black-and-white photos. Best of all, operation is child's play and print quality is great.www.lexmark.co.uk4 Canon Selphy CP600&pound;200, ****This is an attractive option for PictBridge-compatible cameras and Canon camera owners. It connects to any of the company's compacts, digital SLRs and current range of digital camcorders. The classy Selphy also boasts durable dye-sublimation print technology for photos with a lab-produced look and comes with built-in Bluetooth and a hefty, but long-lasting, rechargeable battery.www.canon.co.uk5 Sony DPP-FP50&pound;180, ***Sony's chic-looking DPP-FP50 uses similar print technology to the Canon Selphy, providing long-lasting photos with a durable gloss finish. It is more versatile than the Canon, however, featuring both built-in card slots and PictBridge support. It is missing a colour screen, but images can be selected by connecting to a TV instead, which is slick. Print options include red-eye removal plus there is a choice of borders including a useful calendar option. Image quality, however, isn't as good as the inkjets.www.sony.co.uk
First there was the "dodgy dossier" that the British government published as a Word document, complete with the history of who changed what. Now it seems the US Transportation Security Administration is distributing its infamous No-Fly list - the names of roughly 1,000 people who are deemed "threats to aviation" and not allowed on planes under any circumstances - to airports as an Excel spreadsheet protected by just a password.Passwords for desktop applications such as Office can be easily cracked with tools that are widely available. That is handy if you forget the password you used to lock your documents. It is not so good if you are trying to protect confidential data. And while a spreadsheet is easy to create and guaranteed to open on almost any PC, it is rarely the best place to keep important data.Tony Speakman, of database company FileMaker, says: "A spreadsheet is like a disposable razor - it's fine if you are only using the data once. If you are going to use it as an ongoing part of the business, if the data is being re-used and analysed and shared among different people, a spreadsheet is no longer appropriate."When you put information in a spreadsheet, you only have one view of it. Anyone with access to the document can see it all, and can often change it, too. With a database, you can create different views of the same information. The accounts department needs to see how much you are paying for supplies, but the size of the boxes isn't relevant. The warehouse, by contrast, doesn't care much about the price, only when it is arriving and how much space it will take up. If you need to send information outside the company, you can create a run-time version of the database so the information can't be changed or exported.It is possible to password-protect sections of a spreadsheet to restrict who can see what, but it is a lot of effort, so people usually save the relevant information as a separate document to send on. This results in multiple versions of information, making it harder to keep everything up to date - and secure.Nigel Beighton, of Symantec, points out that desktop PCs with second-generation copies of data files are seldom as well protected as the server with the original information. "We need to educate users to destroy temporary data after use," he says.One way to do that is to use the Information Rights Management (IRM) features in Office 2003. Microsoft is keen to point out that this isn't strictly speaking a security feature because there are ways to get around some of the restrictions, but it will stop people copying, forwarding or editing confidential documents by accident. And you can set expiry dates on documents to make sure you are always working with an up-to-date version of your customer list.To be really secure you need to encrypt files with something stronger than the Office password option. If a file is not leaving your PC you can use the encryption built into XP's NTFS file system. This works transparently: as long as you have access to a protected file, you will never need to worry that it is encrypted.PGP (Pretty Good Privacy), which is often used to encrypt email, can also be used to protect files and folders, both on your PC and when you send them on. Cryptographer Bruce Schneier says it is the "closest you are likely to get to military-grade encryption". You can download the freeware version or get a simpler interface, as well as encrypted instant messages, with the new PGP Desktop Professional 9.If sticking with Office passwords for simplicity - or you have an Office document with a forgotten password - remember that the older your version of Office, the easier it is to get past passwords.Office 95 and 97 passwords can often be cracked in a few minutes. Office 2000 and XP have better encryption, but the applications default to less secure encryption for backward compatibility.You also need to choose the right protection option. Using the Protect Workbook setting in Excel stops anyone changing worksheets, but if you copy hidden cells to a new spreadsheet, they will be visible.Office 2003 has the strongest encryption options, but using it means you can only open the documents in another copy of Office 2003. This uses Windows' built-in cryptography, so the encryption depends on which version of Windows is installed.When distributing password-protected Office documents, it is important to change the password with every version, because the stream cipher used to encrypt the document is always the same for any particular file. If you don't, a hacker with two versions of the document has a head start on cracking it.The longer and more complex the password, the harder it is to break. However, the more expensive recovery tools such as Paraben's Decryption Collection Enterprise use a range of approaches including dictionary and brute force attacks. Paraben includes tools to recover passwords for a wide range of applications from Office, Lotus, WordPerfect, Exchange, Acrobat, WinZip, Quicken and MYOB to Outlook Express.Passware has individual tools for a similar range of programs. There is even an online recovery service for Word and Excel documents atwww.decryptum.comthat will give you a preview of the contents before you pay to unlock the file.LinksLocked and loadedPGP freewarewww.pgpi.orgParabenwww.paraben.comPasswarewww.lostpassword.comPGP Desktop Professionalwww.pgp.com/products/desktop/professionalThe misuse of RC4 in Microsoft Word and Excelhttp://eprint.iacr.org/2005/007
People usually like to be credited for their work, but Early Ehlinger understands when it doesn't happen. Recently, one of his customers explained how he fought Disney to get Ehlinger a credit on the new Herbie movie. "We worked on Herbie?" Ehlinger asked.Ehlinger runs Respower, one of a new breed of companies providing an innovative service to the computer animation industry. Respower operates a render farm - a network of more than 500 computers managed using proprietary software and optimised to render computer animations. This involves taking the basic 3D wireframe models that animators create in software packages, and calculating what the images should look like once the complex textures have been laid on to them, and the simulated light sources have shone on the objects.With modern animation, which often uses multiple light sources shining on surfaces with different reflective qualities, such calculations can take hours per frame on one PC. Traditionally, companies such as Pixar ran their own render farms: in 1995, Toy Story was rendered on a huge cluster of Sun workstations. But for amateur computer animators with just a PC, cheap modelling software and a dream, such resources are impossible to buy.But thanks to companies such as Respower, these resources can be rented by the hour. Customers range from large companies that need extra processing power to supplement their own render farms, to freelancers producing their own animations or carrying out contract work for larger studios.Customers upload files to Respower's FTP site, specify the frames they want rendered and enter their credit card details. When the job is done, the finished product can be downloaded or, if it is very large, it can be sent on a hard drive.Ehlinger separates the brawn involved in computer animation from the designer talent. No wonder, then, that the company is not often credited for its work."In many cases, giving a credit to us would be akin to giving a credit to a power company because we get our electricity from them," he says.Rendering services are democratising the computer animation world, says Terence Masson, chair of the 2006 computer animation festival organised by Siggraph, the computer graphics special interest group attached to the Association for Computing Machinery in the US."The number of entry-level people has increased almost exponentially in the past couple of years," he says, which "mirrors the low cost of the hardware and software". He believes the education system is turning out more computer animation graduates.Brian Taylor is an example of the emerging breed of one-person animation houses. An illustrator by trade, Taylor decided to work on his own half-hour animated film, Rustboy, in 2001. Using an Apple Mac and off-the-shelf software, he created the character and animated about four-and-a-half minutes before realising he needed more help. He is now negotiating with help from an animation team to turn the concept into a series of five-minute shorts. A company with interests in mobile phone content is involved, meaning that Rustboy could one day come to a mobile phone near you.None of this will surprise Ian Calderon. As co-founder and director of digital initiatives at the Sundance Institute, which runs the Sundance film festival, he has high hopes for alternative delivery mechanisms as a way of making new animators' work accessible. Devices from PDAs to home entertainment systems and mobiles will become distribution channels, "anywhere, anytime, on demand, tailored to the tastes of an individual audience".These distribution channels may be embryonic, but in the meantime, companies continue to innovate at the production end of animation. Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, for example, has taken the farm concept a stage further with its SE3D initiative, a pilot project in which selected low-budget UK animation houses were given the chance to render their animations on HP's Palo Alto-based render farm. They were asked to participate in a web-based auction system to bid for rendering time. Peter Toft, programme manager for SE3D, envisions a point when processor time is traded in dynamic markets, raising the possibility of, say, futures trading in rendering time.The obvious alternative is grid computing, in which spare processor time on independent, internet-connected computers is used to render small parts of movies. This model has been used for everything from cancer research to scanning signals from space for extra terrestrial intelligence project. However, Ellinger and Toft argue that this is unlikely, for security reasons and because the bandwidth required to communicate rendering data would be too high.Get animated in your bedroomRespowerwww.respower.comSE3Dwww.hpl.hp.com/SE3D/Rustboywww.rustboy.comSiggraphwww.siggraph.orgTerence Masson's Digital Fauxtographywww.kascope.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
A British man accused of hacking into the US military computer system left a note on an army computer saying US foreign policy "is akin to government-sponsored terrorism", a court heard today.Gary McKinnon's note continued: "It was not a mistake that there was a huge security stand-down on September 11 last year ... I am SOLO &#91;the name by which he was known online&#93;. I will continue to disrupt at the highest levels," the court was told.Mr McKinnon, 39, faces extradition to the US over claims he accessed dozens of government computers over a one-year period, causing $700,000 (&#163;370,000) worth of damage.One of the allegations relates to the deletion of operating system files and logs from computers at US naval weapons station Earle at a critical time following the September 11 attacks, which rendered the base's entire network of more than 300 computers inoperable.His ultimate goal had been to gain access to the US military's classified information network, Bow Street magistrates' court heard.Mr McKinnon, 39, of Wood Green, north London, is contesting the extradition request. He is accused of 20 counts relating to the US army and navy, the space agency Nasa, the department of defence and the air force. These include accessing computers, intending to steal computer files and data, and stealing computer files.He is also alleged to have obtained secret passwords or information that might become "indirectly useful to an enemy", and interfered with maritime navigation facilities in New Jersey.Mark Summers, for the US government, told the court: "During a period from February 2001 to March 2002 the defendant gained unauthorised access to 97 government computers. He was acting from his own computer in London."Via the internet, the defendant identified US government network computers with an open Microsoft Windows connection."Mr Summers said that Mr McKinnon, having gained access to administrative accounts, installed unauthorised remote access and administration software, named "remotely anywhere", which enabled him to control and alter data on the US computers without detection."He effectively owned those computers by virtue of the software that he had transmitted," Mr Summers said.He said Mr McKinnon had been able to scan more than 73,000 US government computers, and was able to "lever himself from network to network and into a total of 97 government computers throughout the US".Mr McKinnon is also accused of deleting files capable of shutting down the entire network of more than 2,000 computers in the US army's military district of Washington for 24 hours, "significantly disrupting governmental function".Mr Summers said: "The defendant's conduct was intentional and calculated to influence and affect the US government by intimidation and coercion."Mr McKinnon, dressed in a grey suit, spoke only to confirm his name during today's hearing, which was adjourned until October 18.As bail conditions, district judge Nicholas Evans ordered him to report to his local police station twice a week, not to apply for any international travel documents and not to use any computer equipment that would allow him access to the internet.Speaking outside court, his solicitor, Karen Todner, said: "Gary McKinnon continues to vigorously contest his extradition, which has been requested belatedly by the US government. It is unknown why there has been such a delay in requesting such extradition."The British public need to ask themselves why British citizens are being extradited to the USA when the US government has not signed the extradition treaty between the two countries."She said her client faces a maximum possible sentence of 70 years if found guilty in the US.Mr McKinnon was initially indicted in 2002 by a federal grand jury on eight counts of computer-related crime in 14 different states.Speaking at the time of the indictment, Paul McNulty, the US attorney for the eastern district of Virginia, said: "Mr McKinnon is charged with the biggest computer hack of all time."
Computer-literate music fans who illegally share tracks over the internet also spend four and a half times as much on digital music as those who do not, according to research published today.The survey confirms what many music fans have informally insisted for some time: that downloading tracks illegally has also led them to become more enthusiastic buyers of singles and albums online.Unlikely to be music to the ears of record companies, who have previously argued the opposite, the results will raise a question mark over the companies' recent drive to pursue individual file sharers through the courts.The trade body, the British Phonographic Industry, has so far secured settlements of several thousand pounds from 90 people who have been caught sharing pirated tracks over the internet, several on behalf of their children.One case involved a London jazz singer who was fined &pound;2,500 after her 19-year-old son shared 1,330 songs using the family computer.Since illegal downloading became a mainstream pursuit in 1999, the music industry has insisted that those who swap pirated tracks over the web are chiefly to blame for the downturn in music sales, which have fallen by 25% in the six years since. Eric Nicoli, chairman of EMI, whose artists include Robbie Williams, Coldplay and Joss Stone, recently told the Guardian that the argument that those who illegally download music would buy more legal tracks if they were cheaper was "bollocks".But the survey of 600 music fans who also own computers and mobile phones, conducted by the music research firm The Leading Question, shows that those who regularly download or share unlicensed music also spend an average of &pound;5.52 a month on legal downloads through sites such as Apple's iTunes Music Store or Napster. Those who were not illegally filesharing spent just &pound;1.27 a month on digital tracks."The 2005 Speakerbox research shows that music fans who break piracy laws are highly valuable customers," said Paul Brindley, director of The Leading Question."There's a myth that all illegal downloaders are mercenaries hell-bent on breaking the law in pursuit of free music. In reality they are often hardcore fans who are extremely enthusiastic about adopting paid-for services as long as they are suitably compelling," he added.But the BPI said that it would continue its hard line against those who infringe copyrights by trading songs illegally. Viewed another way, said BPI communications manager Matt Phillips, the figures were a vindication of the BPI's approach in cajoling illegal downloaders to try legitimate services by promoting legal alternatives while threatening court action. Neither did it take into account the overall effect on CD sales, he added."It's encouraging that many illegal file sharers are starting to use legal services. But our concern is that file sharers' expenditure on music overall is down, a fact borne out by study after study," said Mr Phillips. "While a third of illegal file sharers may buy more music, around two-thirds buy less, and that two-thirds tends to include people who were the heaviest buyers. That's why we need to continue our carrot and stick approach to the problem of illegal filesharing."The BPI has said in the past that illegal filesharing was indistinguishable from shoplifting and would still be wrong even if not a single record sale was lost.Whether illegal filesharing has a negative effect on record sales or acts as more of a marketing tool has long been a subject for debate.Advocates of filesharing have pointed to disputed research from two US economists who last year studied downloading behaviour. Felix Oberholzer, a Harvard Business School professor, and Carolina academic Koleman Strumpf concluded that "downloads have an effect on sales which is statistically indistinguishable from zero".Meanwhile, record companies say they are starting to turn the tide in favour of legal, paid-for downloads, and while online sales continue to represent a small proportion of music sold, they could account for a quarter of all sales by the end of the decade. The fastest selling download to date is an exclusive online-only version of Sgt Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band performed by Paul McCartney and U2 at Live 8.A recent ruling in the US supreme court found that the filesharing service Grokster was responsible for encouraging users to share pirated material over its peer-to-peer network, paving the way for further court cases against software companies.Recent figures from the International Federation of Phonographic Industries showed that the number of legal tracks downloaded internationally tripled to 180m in the first half of the year, while the volume of tracks being traded illegally rose only 3% to 900m, despite the increased penetration of high-speed broadband lines.In the UK more than 5.5m online tracks were sold in the second quarter of 2005, a rise of 744% on the previous year.
Ah, Wednesdays: not only the halfway point of the week, but also the first chance for Onlineblog to take a breather, get a cup of milky tea and take a look at the pile of email and letters that have come in over the past few days.We have limited space in ourletters pageeach Thursday, so here's an opportunity to talk about those which would have otherwise gone unpublished. If you see anything on the site that makes you mad, happy or just spurs you to comment, then please email us atonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.Broadband ballsA common thread from those writing in, as always, is problems with broadband."The news that Bulldog plans to extend its god awful service to the rest of the country left me unable to breathe for a while," wrote Harry Parkes, who's clearly had a bad experience. "They are barely able to answer the calls of customers complaining about the current levels of service when they decide to roll it out to another 20 million."Carl Asher, meanwhile, has been having some issues with his internet connection, on the back of the news that BT is to upgrade all its broadband customers to a 2Mbps service. "I've been a customer of BT Internet for approximately five years," he tells us. "When I first saw the ads in the newspapers and the banners on the BT homepage about the upgrade to 2Mbps at no additional cost, I was really impressed. To my surprise, I recieved an email telling me that I would not be upgraded owing to either the quality of my line, or the distance from the local exchange.""I quickly complained, as I felt it was unfair that I would be paying 25 a month for a package inferior to someone who lived a short distance away, but could get a 2Mbps service for the same price. It took a while for the response from BT, which was very abrupt and basically implied that BT Yahoo are not responsible for the line speed... and that I would not get a reduction in the fee I pay for a lesser service!""Are you aware of anyone else having a similar experience, and can you offer any advice?"It's a good point, Carl: why should customers unable to get the best service still have to pay over the odds for a worse product? We'll be putting the point to BT - let's see what response we can get.Working consumers overDennis Howlett, was vexed over the differences between US technology prices and those in Britain and Europe - the subject of ourSecond Sightcolumn last week."I'm sorry," he tells us, "But the arguments you were given are a blind. If you study the accounts of the large software vendors like Microsoft, Adobe and others, you'll see they all make hedge provisions for currency gains /losses. They're not that great at it but they try.""The consumer is being worked over. It doesn't happen in the enterprise market. The accounts of SAP, Oracle and others are littered with explanations that talk about profits and losses on product because it is priced in dollars for everyone."Any other business"Interesting and very thoughtfularticle about BBC's Creative Archive," says Andre Wachholz, referring to another opinion piece we ran a few weeks back. "We have the same problems in Sweden with our 'Open Archive', but are trying hard to make deals with the copyright owners. Its very annoying to have to pay a second time for this kind of archive material. Especially taking in consideration the importance to show a broader public the history of a century so dominated by TV, films and photos."Another reader got in touch after being frustrated by our brief news piece on a new worm which parades as an iTunes program file, ITUNES.EXE. "What you fail to state is, of course, that the .exe file will only affect or infect a PC - ONLY," wrote Nick Shorey. "Come on, give the whole story!"While it's true to say that the .exe will only open a PC, that doesn't mean it's not a problem for Apple users. After all, email attachments can easily be passed on - whatever platform you use. And even if it's uncompatible code, I'd still warn users against opening *anything* they were unsure of.Finally, another Nick - Davies, this time - came back with some follow-up advice tolast week's correspondentswho were looking for a copy of the Knoppix 4 DVD. "For those who don't want to download it, you can get Knoppiz 4 on DVD fromElucis.com. Mine cost 4.67 and arrived in less than a week. It comes with a selection of languages, including English."And relax. That's all for another week.Remember, if you want to have your say about anything in Online, then email us atonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk- or leave a comment below.
Bit slow off the mark on this one, but that doesn't stop it being noteworthy.Last week Gregory Straszkiewicz was fined 500 and given a 12 month conditional discharge for "dishonestly obtaining an electronics communication service". Apparently he was caught by police after having attempted to connect to a private Wi-Fi network several times. It's reminiscent of a recent American case which wewrote about here.As The Register puts it:The case - brought under the Communications Act 2003 - is the first "war driving" prosecution in the UK, according the police. Officers caught Straszkiewicz hunting for "free" net connections in a residential area after complaints from locals.Straszkiewicz deliberately set out to borrow bandwidth from his unwitting benefactors but there's no evidence he had any hostile motive beyond this - so his sentence seems harsh. It's unclear whether anyone who accidentally jumped onto another party's net connection (easy to do if a host is using an unsecured connection with no encryption) might also risk prosecution.Here's the thing... when I have the Wi-Fi enabled on my Powerbook, it automatically scans for available wireless networks. Indeed, when my home's internet connection was down, I used a neighbour's in order to find the solution to my own problem. Last year wecarried an articleon the trade between neighbourly wireless connections; sometimes it's friendly, sometimes it isn't.So is it up to me to protect my network? If this is a question of ill-informed consumers unwittingly opening up their networks, should wireless routers come locked down as a default?Or is it up to me to make sure I only use a wireless connection that's designated as free-for-all - rather than jumping on any old one that's been left open?
The New York Times'sFashion &amp; Style sectionhas a piece about top bloggerStephanie Klein:Since Jan. 20, 2004, Ms Klein, a 29-year-old art director with freckles and long red curls like Botticelli's Venus, has been blogging about the intimate details of her life, from her affinity for rainy days and grilled cheese sandwiches to her sexual escapades, including one that involved a stranger and a can of Pam cooking spray.Today the blog has an international readership with fans who recognize Ms Klein when they see her gallivanting around Manhattan and the Hamptons, and who find parallels to their own lives in her candid, freewheeling stories.And she's now making money out of it....Ms Klein's celebrity has lately outgrown the Web, leading to a book and television deal. Her memoir, "Straight Up and Dirty," is to be published by ReganBooks, Judith Regan's HarperCollins imprint, in April 2006, and NBC is developing the book into a half-hour comedy series produced by Ms Regan. Ms Klein is also working on a second book about her fat-camp experiences. (Her trademark candor did not extend to the exact advance for her books, but she allowed that Publishers Marketplace, an industry publication, had described it as a "major deal," meaning $501,000 or more.)Comment:One of Klein's readers - "Anna Myers, 28, a teacher from Richmond, Va" -- makes the interesting observation: "I feel like blogs are the reality television of the Internet."
As this morning's Guardianreports, Granville Technology - the firm behind top UK computer brands Tiny and Time - has closed its shops and started laying off staff:There is uncertainty over the future of Britain's largest computer manufacturer, the firm behind the Tiny and Time computer brands, after it abruptly closed all 78 of its retail stores yesterday and began laying off staff at its Burnley factory, the Guardian has learned.Granville Technology Group, which makes 500,000 computers a year, is understood to be close to collapse. All directors except its part-time chairman have resigned.Asked last night if the business had solvency concerns, a spokesman said: "Granville Technology's first responsibility is to its staff and customers and we are not making any further comment at this time."We'll be trying to find out more on what this means for consumers, and what the future is for the retailer.
Infineon, Europe's biggest chip-maker, yesterday reported a doubling of its losses in the third quarter because of falling prices and warned that it could take two years to swing some divisions back into profit.Wolfgang Ziebart, chief executive, said the group no longer expected to break even this year despite a rise in prices for standard DRAM memory chips and a more stable market.Infineon, which spun out of Siemens six years ago, is in the throes of a scandal over kickbacks for sponsorship of motor racing which, 10 days ago, claimed the scalp of the head of its memory chip division, Andreas von Zitzewitz.Mr Ziebart said it was important to clear up the scandal - which is being investigated by Munich's state prosecutor - but his main aim was to steer Infineon towards the future and restore its profitability.The company said its net loss in the third quarter to June 30 was &euro;240m (&pound;166m) compared with &euro;114m three months earlier - and &euro;56m a year earlier. Pre-tax losses doubled to &euro;234m.Sales, at &euro;1.61bn, were 16% down on a year ago. But Mr Ziebart said revenues for memory chips, which account for 40% of overall turnover, had risen because of a 45% increase in volume which more than offset a 30% decline in prices. The weaker euro added &euro;40m to sales.The steep fall in prices was worse than expected and, with the added costs of ramping up output at its new plant in Richmond, Virginia, pre-tax losses were &euro;125m compared with a profit of &euro;17m three months earlier.Infineon said prices should stabilise in the final quarter while its market share in this segment would improve as production of larger, more cost-effective 300-millimetre wafers in Richmond increased.The company has been hit by the sharp decline in the market for mobile phones made by Siemens, its former parent.Its own communications business, which makes chips for phones and accounts for 20% of sales, saw turnover fall 25% year-on-year but pre-tax losses fell to &euro;88m from &euro;142m in the previous quarter.Poor demand and pricing pressures took their toll in the security and chip card business, with pre-tax profits down to &euro;23m from &euro;74m a year earlier.The division took a &euro;81m charge for the closure of its Munich plant and the move to a new factory in Malaysia.Mr Ziebart said: "We have made good progress in our corporate restructuring."But in the third quarter we have seen adverse effects on memory products and security and chip-card as well as at some of our baseband customers."Even so, we expect an improved fourth quarter compared with the third."
There is uncertainty over the future of Britain's largest computer manufacturer, the firm behind the Tiny and Time computer brands, after it abruptly closed all 78 of its retail stores yesterday and began laying off staff at its Burnley factory, the Guardian has learned.Granville Technology Group, which makes 500,000 computers a year, is understood to be close to collapse. All directors except its part-time chairman have resigned.Asked last night if the business had solvency concerns, a spokesman said: "Granville Technology's first responsibility is to its staff and customers and we are not making any further comment at this time."There are more than 2 million Tiny personal computers and laptops in UK homes as well as thousands of Time Education computers in schools, colleges and universities. Time PCs are also sold through Tesco, Asda and Woolworths.Many Granville computers have been sold with warranties, while some contracts with schools and colleges include service contracts.Granville, formerly known as Time Group, is owned through offshore companies in the British Virgin Islands and Jersey by a 34-year-old British businessman, Tahir Moshan, who resigned as managing director last year.Granville, which employs 1,100 workers, was due to file accounts with Companies House in April but has failed to do so.Granville's main creditors are thought to be its bank, HSBC, and GE Capital, which provided financing for customers. HSBC refused to comment yesterday. The company is believed to have net liabilities of about &pound;50m.At its height, the group had turnover of &pound;250m and more than 150 high street stores, previously branded as Tiny Computer shops.Granville's financial crisis comes three years after the company, then known as Time Group, acquired Tiny Computers out of administration. Tiny went bust in 2002 with debts of more than &pound;35m. Two former directors - unconnected with Time or Granville - were found to have taken "unwarranted risks" with creditors' money and were banned from holding company directorships.In particular, Tiny was found to have failed to take steps to protect customer warranties in the event of the business going under. There is no suggestion that similar mistakes have been made at Granville.Yesterday a spokesman for Granville said the company was still trading through all divisions except its 78 retail stores, called The Computer Shop, and that the Burnley factory remained in production. "The stores are closed for stock-taking while a credit card transaction issue is being resolved," the spokesman said. "They will be shut until further notice."He said the non-executive chairman, Bill Davies, was "overseeing the development of the management team".But Mr Davies, contacted on Monday night, said he was not involved in the day-to-day running of the business. Asked about the shop closures, he said: "I don't know anything about that." He said he did not believe there was any strain on the group's debt repayments. He could not be reached for comment yesterday.
EA are still the top dogs when it comes to videogame publishing, butall is not wellat the company. Yesterday the company cut its revenues and earning forecasts, primarily due to the delay in the launch ofThe Godfather. EA on the slide? Of course not. But following disappointments like Batman Begins, the need to ensure that Godfather is at least semi-decent is hugely important if EA are to begin capitalising on the GTA-led demand for more "mature" games. No pressure then.
The Motorola event to launch its Q phone (watch ithere) featured Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer because its the first to announce with the Windows Mobile 5 version of Windows CE. This introduces a form of "push" email similar to the RIM Blackberry but based on Microsoft's standard Exchange mail server. (As theFTnotes, "some companies have balked at RIM's corporate software licensing fees".)The event had a certain frisson because Ballmer and Motorola boss Ed Zander are old enemies. Zander spent 15 years working for Sun Microsystems, where he rose to become president and chief operating officer.
There's nothing going on. Absolutely nothing. Every summer the industry slips into a kind of vegetative state, rousing only briefly every other week to spasm out a retro hits collection, or a train sim - or, most obviously, a blockbuster movie cash-in. Except they're not technically cash-ins anymore. Because something weird has happened.Check out thecharts. There are three games in there based on movies that have only just been, or are yet to be, released: Madagascar (at number one. Number ONE), Fantastic Four and Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. This is a popular new movie/videogame industry tactic - get the game out first to feast on the movie's pre-release marketing, and then hope the film itself benefits from all the fun people have had with the game. I understand why the movie and videogame companies do it, what I don't understand is why the consumers do it. Why do you want to play the game of a movie you haven't seen yet?Am I being crushingly naive? I thought the point of a videogame conversion was to allow people who have become excited by characters they saw portrayed on the big screen to interact with those characters, to re-live and reinvent key moments from the film. But no. Nowadays people get so caught up in the all-consuming Manchurian Candidate-esque hypno-advertising of the modern entertainment conglomerate, that - before they even have a story to be inspired by - they're queuing up outside Game, handing over thirty quid for the chance to ruin the movie for themselves.Why are we such suckers to the subliminal sell? It's what I hate about the digital age. Movies are no longer just movies with a bit of merchandising on the side - they're merely elements in the 'entertainment experience' alongside videogames, ring tones, logos, wallpapers, micro sites, etc, etc. Did you see the Orange poster ads that appeared everywhere when Revenge of the Sith was released into the cinema? They were for a range of Star Wars tones and screen savers. The advert said "be part of Star Wars" or some such nonesense. What? be part of the Star Wars universe by downloading a picture of Yoda? What are you talking about?And it's soul-destroying to see how the word 'experience' has been utterly appropriated by the advertising copywriter. Consumers are now offered the chance to 'be part of the experience' - usually by buying more licensed crap - with almost every movie, game, music or sporting event we see. And it is because of this blurring of what really constitutes 'experience' that they're able to sell us games based on movies we haven't seen. What has happened is this: the marketing IS the entertainment. Sure, it's been coming for years and everyone knows that trailers are often the best part of going to the cinema, but I think we're at a new stage now - especially with movies, mobile phones and games consoles working in unison, allowing the peripheral to become pervasive.Have you noticed that you get little Spyro the Dragon and Crash Bandicoot games with Happy Meals at the moment? The perfect marriage of specious nourishment and specious gaming. This is the kind of experience they want to offer us. I can't wait for the cadaver of the industry to shake back into life. Then I can pretend that entertainment is all about Lumines and Pro Evo and Civilization IV, and that experience is something I create for myself.
ARGs -alternate reality games- are a growing and interesting gaming niche. The theory being that rather than sit on your couch, joypad in hand, you actually get out and "play" the game in the real world. A good example isUncle Roy All Around You, which was run by Blast Theory. Aleksspoke to themearlier in the year. The latest ARG isPerplex City. I spoke to Adrian Hon, the 'co-puppetmaster' of Perplex City, and Director of Play at Mind Candy. Despite his ridiculously hopeful assertion that, "ARGs are going to become as big as television or cinema", there is certainly something pretty exciting developing here..What is Perplex City?Perplex City is a treasure hunt that takes place through the internet, phone calls, emails, texts, radio, billboards and real-life events. However, unlike traditional treasure hunts or videogames, Perplex City takes place in real time and with a playerbase that has to actively work together to solve all of the clues, which vary from the simple and easy to the maddeningly difficult.The story is that Perplex City's greatest artefact, the Cube, has been stolen and somehow taken to Earth. Since they can't travel here, they need our help to retrieve it and they're offering a 100,000 reward.So what makes it different to other ARGs?There are a whole bunch of differences. The biggest one is that this ARG isn't just a marketing stunt for a movie or a car or a videogame, as recent ARGs have been. Instead, the ARG is the product itself - in effect, the ARG is advertising itself.The way we fund Perplex City is through sales of puzzle cards, which not only stand on their own as individual fun puzzles, but also contain clues and story information about the theft of the Cube and Perplex City. For example, on the backs of the cards is a huge 3D map of the city that may prove useful to players in future. So, another difference to other ARGs is that we have a very strong physical component to the game - it's not just something that you play mainly on your computer, it's a puzzle game that you can play using the cards on a bus or train or in a cafe.These two major differences have a lot of consequences for Perplex City. One common complaint I've heard from other 'puppetmasters' (creators of ARGs) is that they're always controlled and leashed by their corporate sponsors, which can have unfortunate effects on timing and content. We don't have anything like that for Perplex City - since we're self-funding, we can concentrate on the game and the story and not have to worry about the corporate message or anything like that.Incidentally, a lot of people think we have some sort of secret backer, like Nintendo or Apple. It just isn't the case.How big do you think ARG can become?ARGs are going to become as big as television or cinema. If you think about it, ARGs aren't using some sort of magical new communications channel - they're just using all the existing ways of communicating, such as the internet, phones, television, advertising, real life, and integrating them together so you can give people a richer and more vivid experience. Imagine what Spielberg could have done with War of the Worlds if he tried to replicate what Orson Welles did merely through the radio.In another sense, ARGs aren't anything new, either. Like War of the Worlds, there have been storytellers passing off their tales as 'real' for centuries - I know that I was scared as hell after I saw 'Ghostwatch' on the BBC. The difference is that with the advent of the internet, there's now a medium that can bind together all the other media together in real time, and if you use them all together, the effect is magnified.For example, we've been able to release new information about the story in radio interviews with our characters on Talksport - according to the guys there, their listeners love the interviews and the story. Bear in mind that these aren't adverts either - we're doing it because it helps us reach out to more people, and Talksport is doing it because it's like interviewing Harry Potter on air - it's fun!Who is your target audience?Our core, early adopter audience will inevitably be 18 to 30 year olds who use the internet. However, we're aiming far beyond that, at all age ranges. We've designed our puzzle cards so that they're fun and accessible to anyone, and also very visually appealing (as opposed to the uninspiring puzzles you see in magazines). We also believe that the treasure hunt element and the strong story and world we've created will attract a lot of varied people.If you remember back to when Masquerade was released in 1979, it was just a book containing a bunch of puzzles that led to a buried golden hare worth a few thousand pounds. Because the puzzles were so beautifully designed and illustrated, and because the idea of a treasure hunt that *you* could win was so compelling, the book became an international bestseller and sold millions of copies.So, a book that you might have predicted as being for a niche audience ended up being mass-market. What we're doing with Perplex City is creating a Masquerade for the 21st century.Do you think the puzzle element will attract women as well as men to the game?Absolutely. There's a lot of talk about how women outnumber men when it comes to casual gaming, and I think it's true. The problem that a lot of ARGs have encountered are that many people are put off because they feel they need to invest far more time in them than they can afford, if they want to keep up and play it properly. With our puzzle cards, we're giving people a way to take part in the game for only a few minutes at a time, and there's always the rabbithole into Perplex City there if they want to find out more.
You have to feel for the people who manufacture cars for the midlife-crisis market. Men of a certain age traditionally salved their fevered brains by splashing out on a pricey little convertible, but now they can just buy an iPod and download half a lifetime's worth of pop music on to it. It may represent a similarly doomed attempt to recapture one's lost youth, but it's a much more economical exercise.I like to think that I have now passed through my midlife crisis and come out the other side (although this is not strictly accurate because I have discovered that there is no other side), so a chilli-pepper red sports car is fairly surplus to my requirements. Let's face it, the Nissan 350Z roadster is wildly impractical. With only two seats, every journey starts with me telling two of my three children they can't come. The boot is about the size of that little cage they use to measure your carry-on bag at Ryanair check in. For anything approaching an errand, you will require an additional vehicle. In terms of how much help you're going to be when it comes time to ferry the folding tables back from the school fair, you may as well have come on your bike.But what the hell. This is one cool car; sleek and sculpted, with a vague retrospective nod to the old 240Z (back when Nissans were called Datsuns), the 350Z has ejector-style seats, fetchingly curved headlamps, groovy aluminium door handles and some of the best-looking wing mirrors I've ever seen on a car. The Brembo brakes are considered so impressive that their placement ensures you can read the logo through the wheel spokes. People usually don't say "Hey! Nice brakes!" unless you suddenly use them to avoid hitting a cat, but with the 350Z you can attract brake fanciers while motionless.When you drive a car like this, people want to ride with you, and when they get into it they immediately start to complain. I put this down to jealousy; they really want to be in the driving seat. One passenger felt that the windscreen wasn't high enough. Another thought the interior a bit spartan, considering. Another objected to me listening to Radio 4 while driving it. What do I have to prove?In any case, this is really a car for riding around in by yourself. The instruments are all hooded and angled towards the driver. Passengers are not even allowed to look at the clock. With the top down and the wind in my hair, I felt a bit, I don't know, divorced. Actually, the wind doesn't really get in your hair because   considerable wind tunnel time has been expended creating a turbulence-free interior. Men with combovers, you have nothing to fear. Welcome to top-down driving. Welcome to your second childhood.The 350Z has a top speed of 155mph, which I really wouldn't know about, but even at low speeds it handles brilliantly. It probably doesn't look that impressive as I negotiate the twists and turns of Sainsbury's carpark in second gear, but the huge surplus of power feels impressive.Real driving enthusiasts would probably prefer the coupe version of the 350Z; with a solid roof on it, it's always going to be that much more rigid. The roadster has been strengthened a bit with various reinforcement bars and gussets incorporated in the frame, which makes it about 110kg heavier than the coupe. You can shave off a bit of the weight by opting for alloy wheels, but this will also lighten your wallet by &#163;1,000.The elaborate mechanism by which the top stows away takes about 20 seconds to complete, which is not quick, but it is very interesting to watch: the rear window comes forward, the roof goes back, a compartment behind your head opens and the whole things folds up and disappears. You can perform the manoeuvre anywhere, so long as you've got your foot on the brake, but the button is wisely located to the right of the steering console where young, novelty-hungry passengers can't get at it.The 350Z boasts what is called a "refined exhaust note", which is to say they have tinkered with the engine in order to give it a nice throaty sound, in keeping with the idea that much of the "emotional appeal" of a sports car rests with the noise it makes. This strikes me as a stupid idea, and the fact that they have adjusted the vroom to make it louder for my benefit seems a tacit acknowledgment on their part that I am a bit of a prat.I cannot quite imagine the chain of circumstances that would lead me to feel I deserved a car like this, but it would almost certainly start with me finding &#163;27,000 in the road. And it would end, horribly, with golf lessons. If you think a sports car might help you overcome the numbing dread of impending death, this is definitely the right car, and chilli-pepper red is definitely the right colour. But examine all the alternatives before you walk into the dealership. Sometimes a simple course of antidepressants does the trick.
Motorola gathered everyone around for a big announcement last night... no, not about the much-anticipated iTunes phone, but mainly about the Q, the firm's new smartphone (guff here). It's clearly descended from the popular V3 Razr model, with sharp lines, clean design... and a qwerty keyboard. Plus all nifty extras like email, cameraphone, blah blah blah.Moto has clearly realised that the success of Razr opens new doors for sales, something they're desperately keen to do since losing out to the likes of Samsung over recent years. And they're looking forward to the smartphone market with an eager eye. But when will they ever ditch their awful interface and opt for something users actually get on with?
Short but fairly interesting interview with Elizabeth Spiers, formerly of Gawker, over at the92Y blog. She gives a couple of interesting responses to questions, including this one:Having worked in both print and online media, what do you think is the biggest difference between the two?There are no space constraints in online and instant publishing speeds up the news cycle. Other than that, not much, at least for us. The reportage process is exactly the same.I think that's something that should be taken on board by a lot of news organisations, who - even now - still don't get it: the web deserves more time than many moguls, proprietors and publishers are prepared to give it.
Fancy being the next Dizzee Rascal? Then you should get yourself a good phone, according to this article inWired News:If MCs or rappers want to try out their "bars," or rhymes, they can "flow" over beats played over the speaker phone.Instrumental music is downloaded from sites like Rewind and transferred to the phone via Bluetooth or infrared. Friends hang out outside, "spitting in groups around the streets," said music producer Joelle Reefer.OK, so the piece is a bit wide-eyed and sounds like promotional puff from a mobile company trying to connect with the "yoof" market... but it does show how a technology gets grasped by people and used in surprising ways.
Computer games on mobile phones will be the fastest growing format in a mobile entertainment market that will generate sales of $42.8bn (&pound;25.5bn) by 2010, according to an industry report.It is estimated that global revenues from computer games played on mobile phones will rise from $2.6bn this year to $11.bn by the end of the decade, outstripping music and pornography.Research by Informa Telecoms &amp; Media predicts that the overall market will nearly treble from $15.8bn as the number of mobile phone users climbs from 1.8bn to 3bn.Informa predicts that multiplayer games, where players on different handsets compete in the same game, will account for 21% of the mobile gaming market by 2010. However, analysts warned that inadequate handsets will stifle the popularity of a gaming genre that is still in its infancy."There is no doubt that mobiles can handle it in terms of graphics, but controls will have to be improved," said Stuart Dredge, co-author of the report.Some gaming companies are already tackling the issue of handset quality by designing games that can be played with one button, while big industry players such as Entertainment Arts have set up dedicated units to design specially tailored games.Music, currently the largest mobile entertainment genre thanks to the ringtones market, is expected to grow more slowly, reaching sales of $11bn in five years' time.According to Informa, some parts of that market are not expected to change drastically - ringtones will still account for the majority of music sales. However, the scourge of public transport will be challenged in popularity by music downloads, which will account for 14% of mobile phone music revenues by 2010, as ringtones slip from their current level of 90% of the market to under 60%."At the moment most mobile phones have some sort of camera option. In a few years the large majority will be MP3 &#91;digital music format&#93; compatible," said Simon Dyson, co-author of the report.Mobile phone gambling is also predicted to increase from $1.2bn to $7.6bn, with Europe expected to remain the largest market. The reports allows for a contribution of nearly $1bn from the US, provided a ban on mobile gaming is lifted.
Vodafone is planning to launch mobile phone TV in time for Christmas to try and attract more British customers on to its 3G service. The news came as the world's largest mobile phone firm reported its best quarterly increase in customers since the market's heyday in 2000.It gained 4.1m subscribers in the last three months, a million more than the City had forecast, taking its worldwide total to 165m. In Britain Vodafone gained 165,000 customers, lagging behind O2, which gained 232,000, but more than twice the number added by Virgin Mobile in the same period.But despite heavy marketing since its European launch in the run-up to last Christmas, Vodafone has just 1.6m European users of its 3G service. In the UK it has a mere 282,000 customers using 3G phones while new entrant 3 has more than 3m.Vodafone, like many of Europe's mobile phone companies, has spent billions of pounds buying licences for 3G and building networks that can make use of the technology, which opens the door to fast video and music downloading as well as video calling.But consumers do not seem to have embraced the new technology and increasingly mobile phone companies are looking for something that people do understand which can be squeezed on to a mobile phone.Orange, owned by France Telecom, recently launched a TV service which uses 3G technology. For &pound;10 a month subscribers can watch nine channels including ITN News, CNN, The Cartoon Network and a 24-hour live Big Brother channel.Vodafone already offers 3G TV in Germany, showing four live channels - CNN, Eurosport, Fashion TV and a weather channel - and yesterday chief executive Arun Sarin promised: "We will be offering mobile TV in the UK in the coming months."The German service also has a series of looped channels. Alongside music videos, one of these special mobile channels shows a popular German soap before it is broadcast on terrestrial TV. The service is currently free but Vodafone intends to start including it in its 3G tariffs later this year.Negotiations with British content providers are ongoing but it is likely that UK viewers will get a similar mix of direct "broadcast" TV and special mobile channels.Mr Sarin also hinted that customers unsure about 3G will have another incentive to buy this Christmas when Vodafone intends to reduce the cost of the handsets."Customers in the UK would prefer our 3G handset prices to fall a bit further before they are willing to buy a 3G handset," he admitted, adding that prices will come down "towards the back end of the year".Vodafone has set a target of 10m 3G subscribers across the world by March 2006, with half coming from its Japanese business, which has so far attracted 1.2m.Vodafone's Japanese unit has been left behind by rivals KDDI and NTT DoCoMo, but last month it gained more customers than it lost for the first time this year.&#183;Ireland's Eircom became the first former state-owned telecoms company to buy its way back into the mobile phone business yesterday, spending $500m (&pound;286m) on Meteor, the country's third operator. Eircom, which sold its own mobile unit to Vodafone four years ago, plans to fund the deal through a share sale. The deal is expected to increase competition in the Irish market, which is Europe's most lucrative and has only three players - Meteor, Vodafone and O2.
Fingers crossed: Camelot's Dianne Thompson. Photograph: Don McPheeFor more than a decade, Camelot has run Britain's National Lottery - a phenomenal success that's been seen to struggle over recent years. As a result, they have decided to move further into online gaming and mobile lottery. Dianne Thompson is the chief executive of Camelot, andHamish Mackintoshasked her if the change towards a hi-tech lotto been a success.Read more...
In the world of computers, it promises to be the biggest, fastest, and most mindboggling, of them all. Officials in Japan yesterday announced that they intend to build a supercomputer that will operate 73 times faster than the current top computer.Number one at the moment is IBM's Blue Gene computer, in California, capable of handling 136.8 trillion mathematical calculations a second, or 136.8 teraflops. The Japanese machine, which could cost up to $900m, (about &pound;515m) would leave it standing.Japanese media reports said officials at the country's education and science ministry were aiming to develop a machine that could operate at 10 petaflops, or 10 quadrillion calculations a second. A computer that large needs tough challenges, and there are several being lined up for it.In addition to tracking climate changes, this brute of a computer will be used to simulate the formation of the galaxy and to gauge human reactions to new drugs.If all goes to plan, the machine will be up and running by March 2011.Scientists rely on supercomputers, operating at what are barely comprehensible speeds, to conduct experiments - which are often simulations - that would take too long if standard hardware were used.While the US is developing supercomputers to conduct nuclear weapons tests without the need to detonate an actual device, Japan is using the technology to track sea temperatures and rainfall in the hope of more accurately predicting natural disasters such as the fierce, and occasionally deadly, typhoons that sweep across the archipelago during the course of every summer and autumn.China, with a cautious eye on its neighbour, is developing a system with a top speed of 100 teraflops. Beijing, which regards supercomputers as vital to its competitive credentials, has 19 machines in the top 500. Though it lags behind the US, Germany, Japan and Britain, China is the fastest-growing supercomputing market in Asia.Japan's Earth Simulator, which occupies a space equivalent to four tennis courts, and is installed at the Earth Simulator Research and Development Centre, in Yokohama, was the fastest supercomputer in the world until it was overtaken by IBM's Blue Gene in 2004.US machines currently occupy the top three slots in the global ranking of supercomputers, according to a list released last month at the international supercomputing conference, held in Heidelberg, Germany. The machines are powered by racks of thousands of processors, which, ironically, give them the unwieldy look of the very first computers.Top of the flopsFor computers, speed is everything. Speed is measured in "flops" - floating point operations per second, or the number of calculations a machine can complete in a second. Back in the 1970s, when the first supercomputers were being built, machines could achieve speeds of several million flops.Since then, computers, even home PCs, have raised their speeds at an astonishing rate. Most home computers now achieve speeds of several billion flops.But this pales in comparison to today's fastest supercomputers, such as IBM's Blue Gene. With 10 petaflops, this new computer, to be built in Japan, could operate at 10 quadrillion calculations a second (a quadrillion is 1,000 million million).Flop size is important for complex scientific calculations but is also becoming increasingly significant elsewhere. Animation studios - such as the studio Pixar with its movies Toy Story and The Incredibles - are using powerful computers for films. Even the graphics on video games consoles will soon demand high flop levels. The next generation of Sony's PlayStation, due next year, is expected to compute at about two teraflops: that might be 5,000 times slower than Japan's proposed machine, but it's more than enough for most of us.Bobbie Johnson
I've been asked to help select theUK Frag Dollsthis afternoon and would welcome any suggestions for questions you think would be useful to ask the hopefuls. Please, please don't say "Do you really play the games". It's tedious, my least favourite question, and probably irrelevant considering they've come this far in the proceedings. I was thinking of askingwhythey wanted to be a Frag Doll - for fame, for money or for the love of the game.Any others?
Gadget addict: Sally Dixon, editor of B magazine. Photograph: Brian DalyOur sister Sunday newspaper, the Observer, this weekend kicked off the latest in its series of specialist monthly magazines with the rather interestingObserver Technology Magazine.It's a good read - fromfemale gadget freakslike Sally up there, to gaming virgin Geoff Dyerlosing his cherryand everywhere in between.There's even the result of Observer blog's "best uninvented gadgets" competition, which wementioneda few weeks ago.Go read it.
Sony has taken a big risk by choosing to use advanced technologies in the PlayStation 3 that are either unproven or not ready for mass market mass production. Sony Computer Entertainment boss Ken Kuturagi has now admitted that the PS3 will be expensive -- and he still hasn't announced a ship date. According to aGameSpot.comreport on CNet, Kuturagi said:"We're looking at a life cycle of 10 years with the PlayStation 3. We're currently shifting from standard TVs to HD TVs," said Kutaragi. "But in the next couple of years, most flat-panel TVs will be full HD. We're releasing the PS3 with full HD features from the start so that consumers won't have to buy another version of the console in the future. For the same reason, we're using Blu-ray as the PS3's disc format.""I'm aware that with all these technologies, the PS3 can't be offered at a price that's targeted towards households. I think everyone can still buy it if they wanted to," said Kutaragi to a mostly Japanese crowd. "But we're aiming for consumers throughout the world. So we're going to have to do our best (in containing the price)."Then Kutaragi issued a somewhat ominous warning. "I'm not going to reveal its price today. I'm going to only say that it'll be expensive," he stated.Comment:The idea that the PS3 is going to last 10 years as a front-line machine is wishful thinking: it's never going to happen. However, you can see the problem of trying to develop a PS4 when it's not clear if the Cell chip in the PS3 has a future, or whether it will go the way of the Inmos Transputer....
When I used to playAnarchy Onlinein 2002 the streams were something you flew over in youryalmaha. Now those streams are most definitely revenue based, withdynamically delivered video adsrather than RPG adventure the name of the game. Of course AO, like all MMORPGs, has suffered falling subscription numbers at the all-conquering hands of World of Warcraft. Combine this with theexpense of running MMOsand you can understand the need to search for more funding. Fine. But don't dress it up as something that AO players actually "desire" as CEO Trond Aas did in therelease.
I-playannounced today that it's signed a 'multi-year' deal with Fox for the rights to produce mobile games, ring-tones and wallpapers based around hit real-time TV series, 24. The first game will be released early next year coinciding nicely with the launch of the fifth series (in which Jack has a complete stress-related breakdown and spends 24 hours trying to book into the Priory).Although the game doesn't seem to put you into the role of Jack Bauer, it is promising to stay true to the themes of the programme:"Just as mobile phone communication figures prominently in every heart-racing episode of "24," players of the game will receive instructions, messages, and intriguing content delivered directly to their mobile devices. The clock starts racing the moment players begin to play, echoing "24's" signature real time motif in which every second counts and calamity could be less than 24 hours away."An intruiging immersive/pervasive gaming element there, bringing to mind the likes of EA's Majestic and Nokia's The Game. I didpredictearlier this year that we'd see more games attempting to use the 'always on, always with you' nature of mobile phones to create new gaming 'experiences' - this could prove a watershed release for the genre. I-play will have to be careful though - in our current climate of fear and suspicion, getting a text message to tell you that in two hours the president is going to be infected with anthrax unless you beat a Space Invaders-style mini-game is going to really confuse and upset people.
Perhaps this is old news, but I've just seenthisChinese TV ad for Coke which takes part-place in the phenomenal-selling World of Warcraft online game, and with a trio of pop stars.Last time I can remember this kind of game-commercial fusion happening in the UK was when Lara tried to get us to drinkLucozade.
The media sector is one that Britain knows it does well, whether exporting reality formats, providing high quality news via the World Service, or luxuriating in English as the language of the internet. Which explains why one of Tony Blair's biggest initiatives while holding the presidency of the European Union is to host a Liverpool conference in September on the decision to update and modernise the Television Without Frontiers (TVWF) directive.This directive was first hatched in 1989 - as satellite television, led by Sky, began in earnest. It has established basic ground rules and some controls for broadcasting across national boundaries, within Europe. It also set 50% quotas, "where practicable", for European production, plus 10% for independent producers.Then it was revised in 1997, to give greater protection to children, to cover the rise of teleshopping and to set broad limits on advertising. The push for a substantial rewrite, to take stock of the new digital media world, the internet, downloading, micro payments and new advertising techniques, began two years ago.But now the problem is that the six policy papers published by the European Commission on July 11 on the theme "Towards a Modern Framework for Audio Visual Content" are perplexing and propose a big increase in the scope of the directive.The thrust is for a substantially reworked audio visual content directive (euro-speak for multimedia content) by 2010, including an attempt to extend basic regulation to the internet and newspaper websites.Chris Bone, senior international official at the department for culture, media and sport, told MPs and communications experts at the Westminster Media Forum "there is going to be a very big fight" over what seems to many in Britain as unnecessary "regulatory creep".The papers envisage a "comprehensive framework for any form of electronic delivery of audio visual content". They also assert that: "The majority of experts consulted supported the more comprehensive approach", which has certainly surprised the internet-based companies and telecoms giants.It also proposes categorising media and communications into linear services: those that are scheduled, like TV channels, and non-linear services, like the on-demand world.The proposals also include two tiers of regulation, with a (basic) tier one - covering a right to reply, protection of minors, human dignity and clear labelling of commercial services - extended to non-linear services. This would mean that commercial radio (distributed on satellite and the internet) would be included in the directive for the first time, even though it is only nationally focused.Paul Brown, chief executive of the Commercial Radio Companies Association, says: "Radio has been outside TVWF for past 16 years, and done perfectly well. What advantages are there? We don't want regulation to limit old media's ability to respond."The world of on-demand downloading is an ambiguous area. There is also an issue of how the "where practical" 50% of European-produced content might apply to websites. Bone says: "It is complete nonsense. These are the commission's suggestions, not ours". It also raises the question, why impose the right to reply on the web when, in the age of blogs, anyone can set up their own site to put their side?Andrew Walmsley, founder of internet media buying agency i-level, says the approach is misguided and ignorant. "It is like a dentist being asked to make a set of false teeth for someone he's never met. Content rules are daft."The papers also want to establish what defines a service as an "audio visual product" and have concluded it is anything with moving images. So a website showing video clips or adverts would be covered by the content rules. This clashes directly with the British government's pledge that newspapers can regulate themselves.These opening salvoes also expose the divide between the UK's approach to regulation and that of Brussels and other countries.Ofcom partner Tim Suter says that before any directive is formulated, the commission needs to gather evidence and make impact assessments. Let battle commence.
Carol, the annoying Little Britain character who is adamant that "computer says no", would not approve. But BBC3, the first TV channel to show the David Walliams and Matt Lucas comedy, is at the forefront of an experiment that some at the corporation's top table believe could prove pivotal in changing the way we watch television.The Mighty Boosh, the anarchic and often bizarre comedy that attracted critical plaudits last year, returns for a second series tomorrow. But many committed fans will already have seen the first episode when it became the first BBC show to be made available online prior to transmission.It is an important milestone in the development of broadband. Plans are well advanced at the BBC for a full-scale trial of its interactive Media Player (iMP), which will allow computer users to watch any BBC programme for seven days after it has been broadcast. The success of the radio version, and the announcement last week that Beethoven symphonies were downloaded 1.4m times, suggests it could be a huge growth area.Others are rushing to catch up: Channel 4 is investing &pound;2m in broadband services, and Sky is also hard at work in the area. Ofcom recently announced that uptake of broadband, offering the possibility of viewing and downloading video content, had reached 8.1m households and Ed Richards, chief operating officer at the media regulator, hailed it as a sign that a new age of media convergence was upon us. In this rapidly evolving landscape, the Mighty Boosh trial is seen as an important staging post not just for the technology zealots at White City but also for their colleagues in commissioning and scheduling. The trial will allow fans to watch episodes of the new series a week early, with each programme available for seven days.Emma Somerville, the head of interactive programming at the BBC, confirms that the BBC3 trial is the first in a number of similar pre-broadcast initiatives planned for this year. "In broadcasting we're getting into a massively complicated era, &#91;with&#93; fragmented audience and multiple ownership of devices," she says. "Our audience is going to require a lot more choice and a lot more control. There will be a lot more portability and a lot more platforms, and we're really just trying to understand that whole area."Part of the value of the BBC3 experiment, she explains, is as a practical trial of the issues that will affect broadcasters in the future when large swathes of the schedule are also delivered over broadband, whether to a TV, computer or portable device."It involved managing the rights and negotiating with all the relevant people, the quality of delivery and thinking about the quality of what most homes were going to get, and thinking about who's going to use it, why they're using it, for how long, and what effect this is going to have on the linear programming."Charlie Davies, senior analyst with the research company Ovum, is unsurprised that the BBC should be among the first into the new medium. "If you look at what the BBC has done in new media they've always been pretty proactive, they have a very popular web portal which has had lots of publicity, and it's developed lots of content that is complementary to the broadcasts," she says. "Now you've got some blurring where broadband is being used almost as a substitute delivery mechanism."The fast pick-up rate of broadband is also leading some in the industry to ask whether it could play a bigger role in the conversion of Britain to a digital-only TV network. Fred Perkins, chief executive of Information TV, says broadband will be capable of delivering TV to every home in the country within two years: "Broadband will very soon be a more than adequate - and in many ways better - alternative to Freeview or satellite for the delivery of digital TV."Perkins says SwitchCo, the body overseeing the transfer to digital, should rethink its strategy to take into account the growing popularity of broadband. "A broadband-centred approach to analogue switch-off would be substantially cheaper, for government and consumers, and would have the immense bonus of connecting the nation to broadband even more quickly than is already happening."One of the key advantages to the BBC and other broadcasters of delivering programmes via broadband will be that they can more closely monitor viewing habits, Davies says: "They can start building up customer profiles . . . broadcast is much more of a dumb, one-way method of getting programmes out." The idea of building up complex viewer profiles will be particularly attractive to commercial broadcasters, who will be able to speak more clearly than ever before to advertisers about the audience they will deliver.Somerville cannot yet say whether internet streaming will have a big effect on ratings for terrestrial or digital networks. "Part of what we're trying to do is to understand the answer to that question," she says. "There's quite a bit of video content available through bbc.co.uk and what we really need to do is to start to understand that in relation to the transmission slots." With The Mighty Boosh, the BBC plans to add online viewers to those watching in the normal way but as more broadcasters join in, broadband delivery is likely to present Barb's measurement panel with ever-greater challenges.Somerville concedes that there will be programmes that will not lend themselves to this viewer-defined, on-demand scheduling. Soaps and live sporting events will continue to be viewed by large audiences on the day of broadcast. But it is possible that even those audiences will want extra content after a programme has aired, or a cut-down version to catch up online. "Really this is a case of us trying to get to the bottom of that and understand how we can best add value," she says.Repeats and archive programming are likely to become a big part of the download market - those shows sell well on DVD or video. "It's about reaching the audience where they are," explains Somerville. "We've seen how the &#91;audio&#93; market has developed in terms of downloads; I think we're now at the beginning of that phase for TV and video."
Two of America's major photographic houses have launched a joint venture to provide one of the largest freely available archives of pictures on the internet.The collaboration between New York's International Centre of Photography and George Eastman House is expected to include at least 200,000 images by the time it is fully set up next year.They want to add thousands more to this number when rights agreements have been reached with individual photographers or their estates.Some pictures have already been put on the site,Photomuse.org. The New York Times said the online collection would include works by Ansel Adams, Alfred Stieglitz, Edward Steichen and Laszlo Moholy-Nagy.Anthony Bannon, the director of Eastman House, told the New York Times that there were two major hurdles to putting images on the web - the cultural resistance between the two organisations to sharing collections, and copyright wrangles with photographers."Some are generous and understand the positive result by having the images seen on our website but others are worried about losing opportunities for revenue," Mr Bannon said. "All of us are still learning about how the web can be used, I think."
I was very disappointed with myself to have to cry off going toOpentech 2005here in London this weekend:But here's one development that you can put your name to - even if you didn't make it.Danny O'Brien- NTK founder, EFF activist and occasional Online contributor - chaired a debate on why there isn't a fully-functioning digital rights lobby group here in the UK.The result was the following Pledgebankpledge, which they are hoping to get people to sign up to: "I will create a standing order of 5 per month to support an organisation that will campaign for digital rights in the UK but only if 1000 other people will too". What would your money go towards? Dannyexplains:What can you do with a monthly budge of 5000UKP a month? Well, at the risk of sounding "Just Five Pounds Will Free This Poor DRMed Document And Let It Roam Free In One of Our Free Range Open Standards", we did some back of the envelope calculations after the talk, and agreed we could do something: Probably two staffers and an office.One would act as a media conduit. Half our problem in the UK right now is that the press just don't have anyone in their address books that they can confidently call about on these issues... Just having someone at the end of a phone, handing out quotes and press releases, and pro-actively calling journalists to make sure they know what's going on, putting them in contact with all the other orgs in this area in the UK, is half the work. The rest of the job is actual activism and bootstrapping more funding.Sounds like a worthy cause to me - and hey, if you don't like what they do with it, you don't have to carry on donating.
