"Scareware" is a fast-growing threat to computer users, with cybercriminals promoting fake security software to exploit users' desire to keep their computers protected, according to Microsoft'ssixth Security Intelligence Report.And although Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates predicted in 2004 that spam would be "a thing of the past" within two years, the company now reports that around 97% of all the emails sent over the net are unwanted.Microsoft says recent publicity for threats such as the Conficker virus, which attacks unpatched PCs running Windows, has been accompanied by a dramatic rise in rogue security programs marketed using popups. Users pay to install them, bypassing any other security they might have, but they are actually malware.Cliff Evans, head of security and privacy at Microsoft UK, says he's impressed by "how nice and clever these things are looking nowadays", adding: "We expect this trend will continue." His colleague Ed Gibson, chief security advisor, says users should only install software from companies they trust.Microsoft says its spam findings are based on monitoring its Exchange email hosting and Live Mail/Hotmail online services. It's a big percentage but, says Evans, "the vast majority of it is stopped at source".Paul Wood, senior analyst at Symantec-owned MessageLabs Intelligence, put the proportion of spam at 82% for 2008. However, he says MessageLabs only offers services to businesses whereas Microsoft's numbers include a high proportion of consumers. "They don't have the same level of resources as businesses for blocking and filtering spam," he says.The bright spot for Microsoft is that the hundreds of millions of dollars invested in its Trustworthy Computing initiative, which Gates announced in 2002, is paying off. The SIR for July to December 2008 shows a dramatic fall in the number of infected PCs as Microsoft improved its operating systems. For example, Microsoft was cleaning infections from 33.6 of every 1,000 PCs runnning the original version of Windows XP. It's only 2.6 of every 1,000 running Vista SP1.Microsoft's improvements have led malware writers to shift their attacks towards third-party programs, says Evans. For example, with Windows XP, Microsoft software accounted for six of the top 10 browser-based vulnerabilities; with Vista, the top 10 vulnerabilities are all in non-Microsoft software such as Adobe Flash – the biggest – and Real's RealPlayer.Gibson says that although more people are now using Microsoft's servers to keep their PCs updated automatically, they need to make sure they update their other software, too. Most exploits are using security holes that have already been patched.But while Microsoft is now seeing lower infection rates in the PCs it is allowed to update, this is not solving the spam problem. Most spam is now sent by criminals using botnets of infected PCs, and today's machines have so much more power and internet bandwidth that they can do far more damage."If you drive your car when you need new tyres, you're a hazard to yourself and to everyone else on the roads," says Gibson. "And if you're running your PC with unpatched software, you're a hazard to yourself and to everyone else on the internet. The weak link now is you and me."
Has it really been almost a month since the last gamesblog newsbucket? Here're plenty of links to read through over the long weekend:• Violent films and games delay people from helping others &gt;&gt;scienceblogs.com• GDC 2009: Friday morning: Role of games in personal and social change &gt;&gt;wonderlandblog.com• X48:Microsoft XNA Gamecamp - Games &gt;&gt;x48gamecamp.com• Mothers, don't let your children grow up to be game developers &gt;&gt;playthisthing.com• Akoha, social game for kindness &gt;&gt;raphkoster.com• EA Releases DRM License Deactivation Tool &gt;&gt;games.slashdot.org• Quebec Says 'Non' To English-Only Video Games &gt;&gt;games.slashdot.org• Industry's 'fourth console' announced &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• Japanese interest in gaming on the decline &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• Study claims gaming improves adult eyesight &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• WoW players complete 16m quests a day &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• GDC: Independent Games &amp; Sales: Stats 101 - The Slides &gt;&gt;indiegames.com• Lessons to glean from social gaming &gt;&gt;news.cnet.com• Virtual reality store tests treatment for balance disorder &gt;&gt;post-gazette.com• Economy Takes the Controls From Some Video-Game Pros &gt;&gt;nytimes.com• Guardian scoops four awards including website of the year &gt;&gt;guardian.co.uk• EA: Henry Hatsworth &gt;&gt;henryhatsworth.com• Kodu &gt;&gt;research.microsoft.com• First look at NASA's Unreal Engine 3 based MMO &gt;&gt;news.bigdownload.com• Casual sector to top $1bn by 2013 &gt;&gt;mcvuk.comFollow us for up-to-the-second links ondelicious.
It's the end of the party, the booze is all finished, almost everyone has gone home, and the rest are too drunk to make conversation. You decide to call it a night and, bidding your host farewell, you step over a pool of vomit and make your way out of the flat, heading for the stairs. It's then that you hear her. The fat girl half way down the stairs, sobbing her fat little eyes out. You know the one – she's always there, at the end of every party you've ever been to.One of her friends is drying her eyes with the edge of her Top Shop dress, and asking – more out of desperation than pity – what's wrong. And the girl is trying, through the tears, to explain. Perhaps one of her other friends said something nasty, or maybe some bastard poured red wine on her. But in truth, the fat, drunk girl at the end of every party you've ever been to has no idea why she's crying. They never do.This week, dear reader, that fat, drunk girl isThe Associated Press.The Associated Press thinks it knows why it's upset. Professional journalists are travelling the world reporting the news on its behalf only for nasty bloggers to immediately paste vast chunks of it straight onto their sites. That's why, this week, the AP is sitting on the stairs, bawling its eyes out at those bloggers – and at Google for encouraging them – while its friend (let's call herRupert)  wipes its eyes with her Top Shop dress. Together, they're vowingrevenge.But, if it weren't so drunk, the Associated Press might realise that Google and the bloggers are not why it's upset. Not really. For a start Google doesn't reproduce whole stories on its Google News site but rather links directly to the original source – ticking just about every "fair use" or "fair dealing" box it's possible to tick. Sure, its search algorithm doesn't always put a story from the New York Times piece above a blogger quoting that same article, but it does in most cases, asEric Schmidt has pointed out. And anyway, the AP has a long-standing business relationship to supply content to Google, as incidentally do several of the major blogs.Meanwhile, some of the AP's supporters – and a fair number ofits enemies– are framing the drama as a debate over the future of the newspaper. Except of course, that doesn't make sense either. The newspaper – that daily product of mashed tree, passed through wet and dry rollers, shipped across the country and splurged with ink – is dead. So too is its more costly cousin, the printed book.They're dead, in the same way that each of us – you, me, our children and eventually our grandchildren – are dead. In the next 100 years or so, as age or illness or accident will do for us, so too will the internet, the Kindle and whatever comes next do for print. Some publishers argue that the feel of paper will never be replaced by something so clinical as a flat screen, but those people are betting against the future, and when you bet against the future you always lose. That's a simple fact, borne out by every technological advance there's ever been from the horseless carriage to the iPod. No sense crying about it.And yet, while the AP bawls at progress and while the rest of us point and laugh at them for doing so, almost no one on either side is engaging properly with the most important question of all. The question of how the hell serious, paid-for news journalism can possibly survive the the death of the printed word.That's the question that's been occupying my mind for the past couple of days, and that's the question that I actually want to try to give an answer to. Not because I have the first clue if my idea would work – they rarely do – but rather because it might focus the debate a bit, or at least take it out of the hands of extremists and idiots.Ah, yes, let's start with the idiots. If you read the words "paid-for news journalism" above and your first thought was "who cares? we're all journalists now!" then I need you to do me a favour. Take a quick moment to visit any current affairs blog that doesn't crib from the professional media for its facts. Have a look at the quality of actual, day to day, reporting – factoring in the comments, too. After all, we're all journalists now! Done that? Good. Now ask yourself, do I trust these people to be the only source of my news? You do? Awesome! Nowclick here– you're an idiot and you don't have a place in this debate.Most intelligent people realise that actual, honest-to-God holding-power-to-account journalism is one of the most vital things we have as a society. And equally most of us are smart enough to know that the people doing that journalism need to be paid to do it full time, even if, traditionally, that pay has been pathetic considering the hours they put in, and the dangers many face.Of course there's an odd mushy middle: the professional blogs. The Techcrunchs and Huffington Posts of the world. Where do they sit? Techcrunch wasparticularly brutalthis week in its assessment of the future of the newspaper industry, but then again it can afford to be. Specialist blogs – with low editorial costs and skeleton staff – will continue to thrive, much like professional newsletters and political magazines always have, by selling ultra-targeted advertising to a precise constituency. They (generally) do a great job in their niche and yet their lack of resources and narrow focus, also means they're unlikely to bring down the next Nixon, or humiliate the next Clinton (the latter, lest we forget, wasdown to Newsweek, not Matt Drudge).Which leaves the question of how to ensure the survival of the kind of mainstream day to day journalism and investigative reporting that the traditional newspaper industry specialises in? The up to the minute reporting that frequently sets the agenda for every other news outlet, from cable news to radio to online, while also framing the political debates of the day? And, after a great deal of thought, my answer to the majority of the newspaper industry, is this ...... you can't.Forget about it. Give up. Walk away. You've lost that battle, so stop fighting it. Some chump with Twitter or a camera phone will always have the plane crash story first, and some two bit TV network will run it, un-fact-checked with a vacuous talking head, before you've had chance to pick up the phone to Deep Throat. Bloggers will reblog, tweeters will retweet and the world will spiral ever onwards towards the oblivion of ignorance, with only a few well-funded institutions like the BBC and the more reliable TV news networks left to carry the breaking news flag.  It's a hideous reality, but it's a reality you shouldn't get angry about, not least because it forms the basis of what youshoulddo ...What you should do is realise that your strengths are no longer speed, but rather skill, craft and accuracy. Having realised that, you should stop updating minute-ly, hourly or even daily. Instead you should follow the lead of the likes of Newsweek and the Economist and publish weekly.Yes, weekly – and not as an online free-for-all either, but as one single, self-contained, tangible,paid forissue, possibly in print but preferably published electronically on devices like the Kindle or behind a subscription wall on the web. The medium doesn't really matter, what matters is that the daily pressure is off, and that you're producing a complete paid for product. By leaving hourly "breaking news" and showbiz bullshit to cable and the bloggers, you can plough all of your resources into reporting the whole story, properly, professionally and fact-checked to the hilt. The blogs have speed, you have quality – and, given what they've had to put up with all week, that's something your readers will be more than willing to pay for. There's a reason why the Economist's circulationkeeps rising, while daily newspapers keep on falling.Iwrote two weeks agothat for content to sell successfully online, it needs to tick three boxes: it needs to be unavailable for free elsewhere, there needs to be an easy path to purchase and it needs to be downloadable or otherwise "ownable" so that buyers feel like they're getting something for their money. Distributing a high quality packaged product either in in print by subscription or to the Kindle ticks all of these boxes.But a switch to weekly is just the start. Once you've changed to a mindset of selling a quality product rather than news as a commodity, other profitable areas start becoming more obvious. A return to investigative journalism doesn't just have to mean three page articles, but also full length books – a pool into which newspapers have barely dipped a toe.The Guardian already has a books division, as do various others, either directly or via their corporate owners. As e-reader ownership increases, the logistics of putting out a book a month – available individually or by subscription – become ever more straightforward. Ask yourself how many people read about the Watergate scandal when it was reported in the Washington Post, versus how many have subsequently bought Woodward and Bernstein's book, or watched the Pakula / Goldman film adaptation. Do the maths: in a downturn, book sales and cinema attendance generally stay stable – both are cheaper than a holiday or even a meal at a decent restaurant – and with your journalists being encouraged to do proper reporting rather than vomiting a constant stream of words at a screen, the opportunity for finding suitably meaty subjects to turn into book or film spin-offs increases massively.And there's still one final benefit to switching to this model: not only can blogs not compete with you, but they can actually help you. Give a free subscription to key bloggers, with strict rules on fair use and attribution, and watch them spend the week blogging and reblogging the contents, as the smaller bloggers reblog and the Twitterers retweet, all the time promoting your product. You can use digital watermarking and the iron fist of the law to protect your copyright but offer bloggers a commission for every new subscriber they refer and you'll find most will soon get the hang of fair use and attribution. Play fair with them in return, though: when you use a picture from a blog or from Flickr, pay the photographer and credit them – and if you find a blogger who writes like a dream, hire them. You can afford it.Of course, all of the above only works if you actually deliver quality. If you're the owner of a tabloid rag that simply recycles AP wire stories about celebrities then Perez Hilton is still going to cream you (ew...). And, come to think of it, if you're the management of the AP, you're still pretty screwed as well. But your journalists and editors aren't; in fact, if they're good at what they do, then their new jobs with the new breed of newspapers will be even more stable than ever.And rightly so; after all, it wasn't them who refused to adapt to the changing media reality or who are now shouting and screaming at Google. They weren't the greedy ones, gobbling up all the money when the going was good, while still paying journalists dick all. And now – with that particular party well and truly over – it isn't them who will end up sitting fat and alone. Crying on the stairs, with only Rupert to wipe away their tears.• Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com
Konami has put out a press release about PES 2010, due out in the autumn on PlayStation 3, PS2, Xbox 360, PSP and mobile phone. The Tokyo development team has apparently, "collated feedback on the series' strengths and weaknesses via fan forums, both ardent and casual PES players and press comment, and has incorporated a wide range of requests in the new game".Here's the main stuff you need to know, hastily compiled...GameplayIt's all about being a 'real football simulation'. "Intuitive zonal defending will cover spaces and players need to look constantly for new ways to attack [...] goalkeepers are more versatile and with abilities matching those of modern shot-stoppers. The game's referees have also been reworked, with smarter AI elements allowing them to make more balanced calls during matches."VisualsLive player expressions, improved lighting to convey weather conditions...Match-Day AtmosphereMore varied crowd reactions to the action, including lots of chants and cheers. The game is also looking to replicate the differences between home and away fixtures. I'm not sure how this will be conveyed by the crowd though, perhaps the stadia will have authentic away enclosures so if your team scores, only a fraction of the crowd will react. Commentary is also being updated to offer a "fresher, more concise overview of the game".AIFrom the release: "The Tokyo team has worked to improve the AI of the game, with Teamvision 2.0 implemented. Midfielders and defenders now work together to cover open space and close down attacks, meaning that cover can be provided for lower-ranked defenders. This also has the additional effect of removing soft goals, thus returning PES 2010 to its simulation roots. In terms of attacking, players can also now move several players once, sending them into different areas, opening up more goal-scoring possibilities than ever before".Hmm, that last bit sounds a little like FIFA 08s abortive off-the-ball controls. Apparently you'll also be able to set off attacker runs in response to set-pieces - so free kicks might be a little more tactical than just kicking hte ball and crossing you fingers.Individual player skills"In previous PES games, the team formation has determined the movements of the players. PES 2010 introduces a new system wherein the individual attacking and defending nature of the players is integral to the way they play. Each player enjoys unique AI tied into their best abilities, and is reflected in the actions of their team mates". So if you have a good crosser running down the wing, more players will flood the penalty area in anticipation.Other stuffMore pre-match strategic options ("pass frequency, movement, the line of defence, width of play, or the position of the front line"); a new penalty system offering greater control and accuracy; lots more DLC with regular team and content updates; the exclusive video game rights for the Europa League Licence...The release ends with an interesting quote from Jon Murphy, PES European Team Leader: "The preparations for PES 2010 have been in place for some time now, with the reorganization and increase of the Tokyo-based studio allowing expert teams to concentrate on their particular area. We are now in a better position to implement the greatest raft of changes and improvements to the series we have seen, and thank the PES community for their input."The suggestion is, this iteration has been in development for significantly longer than the year or so since Pro Evo 2009. Is PES 2010, then, the first true current-gen run-out for the series?
Wednesday's edition of Chatternox
&bull; Yahooclosed down its music portal last year- now it's opening up again by relaunching a new version that pulls content from Pandora, Last.fm and others. Wired says it'sborrowing from the "iPhone playbook"ReadWriteWeb wonderswhy users would bother switching.&bull; The government's cracking on with its controversial plan to introduce identity cards, and they'restarting to dish out the enormous IT contractsthat will underpin the system. First up: £385m to CSC and £265m to IBM - despite the fact that both companies haddifficultrelationshipswith the £13bn NHS IT upgrade.&bull; If that's not enough to freak you out, try watchingthis video of a freaky hexapod robot- it's based on an ant, but the movement feels truly alien.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@jemimakiss,@charlesarthur,@jackschofieldand@bobbiejohnson) or by watching ourDelicious feed, under the usernameguardianista.Update:IBM has asked me to make it clear that it isn't one of the central contractors on the NHS Connecting for Health project. That's true: the 'relationship' I alluded to above involved them bidding for contracts and failing - and then, interestingly,briefing reportersthat they never wanted the contracts anyway!
Anyone logging in to iTunes to download music will have noticed a change online store: for the first time, the amount you pay will vary from track to track.Instead of the flat 79p per song that has been iTunes' single price for the past few years, some tracks in Apple's music library are now priced differently - costing either 59p, 99p or the old 79p standard.The change wasthe result of a detente between Apple and the record labels, which negotiated long and hard over how they thought iTunes should work. Thanks to the deal, Apple was given the chance to get rid of copy protection (which had irked big boss Steve Jobs), while the music industry was offered the opportunity to mix up pricing to boost profits.It's alsosparked a price war with Amazon- which is trying to take advantage of the changes to drop its prices on particular downloads and convince users to try its own service.So, now it's all actually happening, how do things stack up? Are we simply being ripped off?I took a walk through iTunes and Amazon to see how much different tracks cost. It turns out that if you want to download any currently popular iTunes tracks, you won't save any money on the previous prices: eight of the top 10 songs remained 79p, while two of them had risen to 99p. Meanwhile, Amazon has dropped the prices on those tracks as low as 29p to get the punters in.ITunes users are clearly expected to pay a premium for the most popular stuff - indeed, the song that's Top 40 at the moment, Lady GaGa's Poker Face, is one of those that's gone up to 99p.What about other tracks, though? I trawled through history to see what the prices of tracks that topped the charts in years past. These tracks would be popular, at least, but shouldn't be in as high demand as those topping today's charts.One year ago:Estelle ft Kanye West, American BoyApple price: 99pAmazon price: 29pFive years ago:Usher, YeahApple price: 79pAmazon price: 79p10 years ago:Mr Oizo, Flat BeatApple price: 79pAmazon price: 69p20 years ago:Madonna, Like a PrayerApple price: 79pAmazon price: 69p30 years ago:Gloria Gaynor, I Will SurviveApple price: 99pAmazon price: 69p40 years ago:Marvin Gaye, I Heard it Through the GrapevineApple price: 99pAmazon price: 69pNow obviously, this isn't a scientific study, and it hardly plumbs the depths of the long tail – those obscure and unpopular tracks that are likely to have their prices lowered to stimulate demand.But right now, for mainstream tracks, the results look fairly clear to me: of the seven chart-topping tracks we looked at, Apple's new flexibility on pricing means that you're more likely to be paying extra today than you were before.In comparison, the same tracks on Amazon were cheaper in every case – bar one example where the price on both services was the same.Looks like Amazon's price war is working. But how long will it last?
You might not have heard ofDoubleTwist, a new startup that's just announced a $5m round of funding today - but one of the co-founders might be familiar.Jon Lech Johansen, DoubleTwist's chief technologist, is better knownDVD Jon, the Norwegian hacker who became infamous for cracking the codes used to protect movies, therefore enabling anybody to rip a DVD to their computer. It's a few years since he wasacquitted of piracy chargesin Oslo, and now he's got the new company on the go.Joining him at DoubleTwist is Monique Farantzos, an expert in digital rights management and former consultant to Intellectual Ventures (the "investing in invention" company that hasbeen accused of being a high-class patent troll).On paper, the duo - one infamous pain in the media industry's bum, one pretty establishment figure - seem an unlikely pairing. But DoubleTwist's idea, to create a media browser that works on any platform (think of a sort of iTunes that's available on any gadget, computer or mobile phone you throw at it), seems to have won over investors.The latest round of backers includes some pretty high profile names - includingIndex Ventures, the investors who have cashed in previously on Skype, MySQL and Last.fm; Horizon Ventures, run by Hong Kong's billionaire businessman Li Ka-Shing; and Michael Ovitz, former Disney boss and Hollywood maven.I haven't tried DoubleTwist yet, but its had some good nods from the likes ofArs TechnicaandEngadget, as well as from the more traditional side of things, likeReuters. Used it?
The US Congress is taking up legislation to dramatically bolster the government's response to the growing threat of international computer espionage and cyber terrorism, a move that would give the president broad authority to sever from the internet private computer networks at risk of attack.The legislation is the US government's first effort to create a comprehensive government infrastructure to deal with the threat to the privately-run computer networks that handle internet traffic critical to the functioning of the nation and the world.The legislation would organise the response from the more than 40 US government agencies currently tasked with handling cyber security issues, aimed at avoiding a cyber "Hurricane Katrina" situation in which a disaster is aggravated by a bungled government response, analysts said."We haven't had a comprehensive approach to cyber security before and we really need one," said James Lewis, a senior fellow at the Centre for Strategic and International Studies, a national security thinktank."It gets people to start asking questions we should have been asking 10 years ago."The legislation, sponsored by senators Olympia Snowe, a Republican from Maine, and John Rockefeller, a Democrat from West Virginia, comes as President Barack Obama's White House nears completion of a broad review of the nation's internet security infrastructure. The necessity for a national cyber security infrastructure was keenly illustrated this weekend by reports of a vast network of electronic spies called GhostNet, apparently based in China, who infiltrated computers in more than 100 countries.Cyber security analysts praised the legislation as a crucial first step toward a comprehensive security regime."The private sector will never deliver a sufficient level of security for the national interest because companies are always going to say 'Tell me why I should make this investment'," Lewis said.Others fear it would grant the government too much power over privately-run networks handling financial data and managing power grids and transporting other vital information."Provisions that give the president the power to limit or shut down internet traffic and to order the disconnection of private information systems in the interests of national security – those are very broad powers and there need to be better controls should any such powers be conferred," said Gregory Nojeim, senior counsel the Centre for Democracy and Technology.Also, the legislation would require the government to establish security standards that some analysts say would hinder innovation and make it easier for hackers to breach broad swathes of US cyberspace.Among other provisions, the legislation would establish a cyber security adviser who would report directly to the president.That adviser would develop a comprehensive national cyber security strategy to coordinate federal and private sector efforts. The legislation would direct the president to encourage international cooperation on cyber security issues.
Here's one I didn't see coming: Segway and GM have announced that they are developing a Personal Urban Mobility and Accessibility vehicle, or Puma. Theofficial sitehas pictures and videos, but it looks like a bigger version of the familiar Segway scooter with a cab on top. According to theAP report:The 300-pound prototype runs on a lithium-ion battery and uses Segway's characteristic two-wheel balancing technology, along with dual electric motors. It's designed to reach speeds of up to 35 miles-per-hour and can run 35 miles on a single charge.The 35mph top speed means it's a road vehicle, not something you'd want to allow on pavements. Whether you'd feel entirely comfortable sandwiched between a bus and a huge tuck is, of course, another matter. At the moment, however, GM has not decided to put the thing into production.Autoblogsays: "The P.U.M.A. project will make its official debut at the New York Auto Show this week." It also has the press release and some photos.It's hard not to be reminded of the ingloriousSinclair C5electric "car". Is the Puma going to go the same way?
This weekAleks Krotoskiis joined byCharles Arthurto find out more about the Conficker worm – the computer infection that some people were worried would cause widespread disruption on April Fool's Day. Were we the fools or will the hackers have the last laugh? Ram Herkanaidu from Kapersky Lab explains just how advanced Conficker is, what you should do to prevent infection, and what the future might hold.Sophia Stuart, director of mobile at Hearst Publishing, explains how she's transferred magazines such as Cosmopolitan, Good Housekeeping and Esquire onto mobile platforms.Plus we discuss this week's news – including howthe government has started recording your internet activity, andIBM and Sun's takeover talks– and bring you the best of the blogs.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
The news came last week thatMicrosoft is discontinuing Encarta. The digital encyclopedia has been roundly beaten by Wikipedia. And this is astonishing, because it seems to be a reversal of the much-lamented "tragedy of the commons".The tragedy of the commons isa term coined by Garret Hardinto describe the way that human populations overuse and undermaintain common resources, leading to their destruction. The evidence of the tragedy of the commons is everywhere, from our over-fished oceans, polluted air and spendthrift use of fossil fuels to the unloved public spaces and graffiti-covered buildings in many cities.And yet. Wikipedia is written mostly by volunteers and amateurs. Almost all of its pages are open to anonymous editing at any time. According to the tragedy of the commons theory, it ought to be nothing but deliberately introduced errors, articles bigging up someone's mate, drawings of penises and lamentable fan fiction. That's if it contained anything at all: after all, why would anyone volunteer to write non-bylined articles for free? But, astonishingly, they do. Wikipedia has become an awe-inspiring resource, for anything fromthe literature of the French Renaissancetoworldwide uses of mayonnaise, to theKenyan political systemto, indeed,criticism of Wikipedia.And Wikipedia is much criticised in the media for its inaccuracies.Caitlin Moran complainedthat, on US election night, Barack Obama's page was replaced with the single sentence "Barack Obama is the new SOCIALIST President of the United States of America".Marcel Berlins was concernedthat Wikipedia reported that Senator Kennedy and Robert Byrd had died when they were both very much alive.The Independent reportedthat: "For a month and a half, a Wikipedia page was reporting that Margaret Thatcher was fictitious."But these criticisms miss the point. Of course Wikipedia is always going to be vulnerable to vandalism, just as a common area of land is. On a stretch of common land – one that is owned by everyone, not policed by a government or local authority – there will always be people who light fires, drop litter and don't clean up after their dogs. The point is that a responsible citizen with a stake in the land – and in this context that means anyone who uses Wikipedia – won't do that, and will even pick up the odd discarded tin can or crisp wrapper and throw it in the bin.I used to feel the same tutting sense of disapproval that I detect in many of those who criticise Wikipedia when they discover an inaccuracy. Like a walker finding an overgrown path in a council-maintained park, I'd shake my head and mutter "someone should do something about this" when I found a misspelling or a poorly written passage. But this, of course, is the tragedy of the commons. The someone who should do something is me.Wikipedia is not Encarta. The unanswerable force of the market has shown that most of us prefer a free and infinitely expandable source of knowledge, even if it's somewhat rough in patches, to a manicured, guarded encyclopedia we have to pay for. And if we can bear the difference in mind, and understand that it's our responsibility to maintain it, the commons may not end so tragically after all.
A role-playing game based on German tabletop DSA, Drakensang has a bit of an image problem. Which is a shame really, as this is an above-average adventure romp that will reward gamers who commit to the cause. Set in a derivative medieval fantasy world, Drakensang has the typical RPG elements of character advancement, exploration and combat.Quests are abundant and, while there is little innovation, there is always something to do. Despite initially appearing like a World of Warcraft-style free-roaming adventure, Drakensang is more of a structured party affair which will make Baldur's Gate veterans feel right at home. Players get to control up to four characters and there is an impressive amount of tactical options even if the AI is sometimes wonky.The graphics are pretty enough, despite overly familiar settings, and only some occasionally poor translation lets the side down. Huge in Germany, but unlikely to bother the charts here, Drakensang is worth a look if you enjoy PC role-playing games.
Here's a refreshing development: a game of a film created because someone thought that the film would make a good game, rather than as a kneejerk marketing exercise.Wanted came out last year, starring James McAvoy as Wesley Gibson, a pen-pusher who discovers he is an assassin with the ability to send bullets on curved trajectories. Developer Grin set out to turn it into "the ultimate cover-shooter" and in that, it largely succeeded. Wanted has plenty of good ideas, such as the ability to advance from cover to cover, briefly going into slo-mo if you have filled the adrenalin meter; the bullet-curving mechanism works beautifully, too. And it looks good, boasts excellent level-design and features fixed-gun, sniping and boss-battle sequences.It really is a pure shooter: you don't even get to chuck grenades (although enemies throw them at you). But it's single-player only, so has little replay value, and is scandalously short. Devotees of shooting games will enjoy its gameplay (and future games will surely rip off some of its ideas), but won't be left feeling sated when they finish it.
Generally well received on Wii, Mushroom Men DS is a different and less satisfying experience. In essence, it's a platformer based around battling insects and rival "Shrooms" while collecting organic materials to construct a variety of ingenious weapons and tools.One screen displays your inventory and map, while the other depicts the action, albeit not as fully as you may wish. This is one of those games where blind jumps and off-screen hazards abound, further complicated by sluggish controls that rely too much on memory or luck rather than skill. Mushroom Men looks pretty good, sounds even better and had the potential to be a lot more fun than it is. Pity.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Hugely entertaining it may have been but Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare had a few uncomfortable moments. Shooting at "insurgents" from a helicopter never had the moral certainty that you got from gunning down Nazis in previous COD games.  And maybe the floodgates have now been opened. Konami haveannounced a gamebased on the war in Iraq. 6 Days in Fallujah is set around the 2004 battle and is apparently based on the videos and stories of the soldiers involved.Seemingly aware of the difficulties in the project, Peter Tamte of developers Atomic Games said:For us, the challenge was how do you present the horrors of war in a game that is also entertaining, but also gives people insight into a historical situation in a way that only a video game can provide? Our goal is to give people that insight, of what it's like to be a Marine during that event, what it's like to be a civilian in the city and what it's like to be an insurgent.Konami – a surprising choice of publisher to be honest - themselves are pushing the story angle. Anthony Crouts, Konami's vice president of marketing:Some of these soldiers came right out of high school. They went from boys to men in the span of two weeks.As you would expect there have been dissenting voices. Celia Pearce, professor of digital media and director of the Experimental Game Lab at the Georgia Institute of Technology said:Making a fun game about war is hypocritical, because war is not fun. That's why many shooters have cartoon hyper-violence that's just physically impossible. It's exaggerated for the sake of entertainment. And it's also done to distance people from the violence, because it's an obvious special effect.The game – a third person tactical shooter – is due out in 2010. Yes, only about six years after the battle took place. Is that too soon? Possibly, although my main concern is how they translate the experience of the non-combatants and insurgents into a "game" without it becoming Gears of War: Iraq.  What do you think of 6 Days in Fallujah then?
&bull; The Apple rumour mill is a 24/7 operation these days, and everyone's trying to get their whispers in for thepossible new iPhone. Latest punts?Built-in FM radio(9to5Mac) andvideo capabilities(MacRumors), Meanwhile AppleInsider saysthat the iPod Touch will eventually get a built-in camera.&bull; The FBI's trying to track down the people whopirated the latest X-Men movie, but the New York Times suggeststhere's an unofficial boycott of the leaked video(nary a mention of the fact that people don't want to get their door busted in by the feds). Elsewhere, Fox Newsfired a columnistwho said movie piracy was "much easier than going out in the rain".&bull; Lastly, another brilliant example of legal bamboozle: US designer Jon Engle says he's beingsued for pirating his own material. Turns out proving ownership of digital artifacts is pretty important.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourindividual Twitter accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed, under the usernameguardianista.
The Home Office has been forced to amend its website after a user was directed to a Japanese pornographic site by mistake.A member of the public was diverted to the site while looking for information about anti-terrorism powers on the site of the Office for Security and Counter-Terrorism.He clicked on a link to an external site for the Technical Advisory Board, which advises ministers on internet companies.But instead of prosaic data about Internet Service Providers (ISPs), he was instead presented with a cascade of pornographic images.The man contacted the BBC,which alerted Home Office officials, and the link was removed.Although the Home Office first believed the target site had been the victim of hackers, it eventually transpired that the address had simply been bought by a pornography site when the domain name expired.A Home Office spokesman stressed that the site in question was external and not hosted by the government.He said: "There was a link on the page that said Technical Advisory Board website. But when you clicked on the link it took you to the porn."We were notified this morning and removed the link immediately."
The jury's still out.While the video sharing website is so phenomenally popular that it has become thesecond biggest search engine in the world– there's still precious little information on whether the money is rolling in.While parent company Google has to divulge certain financial details thanks to its publicly-traded status, it remains highly secretive about the numbers produced by its individual business units.That's where Spencer Wang, an analyst with Credit Suisse, steps in.By Wang's estimates, the video site is due to lose $470m this year – an incredible amount for a website that Google bought for $1.65bn just two and a half years ago.The problem as he sees it? An inability to sell advertising on most of its pages, coupled with a huge number of users watching a vast amount of video online.For once, the advertising weakness isn't likely to have anything to do with the recession - it's just that user-generated content isn't very appealing to advertisers. Oh, and there are some high-profile problems over allegations ofcopyright infringementandroyalty paymentstoo.And the price of not being able to advertise? When you are pushing out millions of video streams every day, the incremental cost of each user is high – meaning that popularity can be a curse, rather than a blessing.Not that YouTube is alone, however. Even the much-vaunted Hulu.com, a video site set up by two of America's big networks, is struggling to turn its popularity into hard cash. Despite quickly rising to become the fourth-biggest video site in the US, its professional-quality, totally-legal shows still struggle to bring in the big ads – instead of watching classy car ads, for example, viewers turning to Hulu for their fix of 30 Rock or The Office are hit by a stream of public service announcements and charity ads.It's such a problem, in fact, that Hulu hascome into conflict with startups like Boxeethat encourage people to ditch their old TVs completely.How to fix things? Perhaps video sites will increasingly look towards broad sponsorships,sweetheart dealsandproduct placement- or try to persuade people that it's worth advertising their wares against that video of a dancing monkey with a wonky eye.
Konami has announced a few more details of its latest Silent Hill adventure. Silent Hill: Shattered Memories is a 're-imagining' of the first game in the series, which the press release helpfully informs us is now 'out of print', whatever that means. Of course, we're used to this sort of endeavour in the movies and on TV, but it's only just gaining a foothold in the world of games, where simple updates and remakes are the norm. Prince of Persia and Tomb Raider: Anniversary, are perhaps stand-out examples of titles that have attempt to redefine an older title or 'reboot' a series.Development duties are being handled by UK-based independent developer,Climax, already responsible for Silent Hill: Origins, and it seems there will be a few tweaks to the original. "Characters can be approached but will offer different responses and be found in different places, while new clues and gameplay paths can be followed," assures the press release.There's also a new 'psyche profile' element, "which monitors every aspect of player's reactions – from where they explore first, items that have been examined, and their reaction to those they meet". Apparently, Harry's responses to meeting other characters or hideous psychological demons will be altered depending on how your profile has built up during play; so maybe if you have a tendency to creep gingerly through the game world, running away at the slightest noise, the lead character will begin to visibly cower when confronted by a ghoulish monster. I don't know, I'm guessing here.The game is hitting Wii, PSP and PS2 in the autumn, with Nintendo's machine seemingly providing the most interesting version. From the release:Designed to make full use of the Wii's unique controllers, Silent Hill: Shattered Memories uses the Wii Remote™ as a torch and cell phone as Mason looks for clues. The torch is vital for scouring the darkened, abandoned buildings of Silent Hill, while the phone acts as a secondary user interface, allowing the player to access maps via its GPS capabilities and take pictures of interesting elements. Likewise, the Wii Remote also can be used to pick up, examine and manipulate items to solve puzzles along the journey.I like the torch idea. It'll be quite good if the bulb goes out at times, requiring you to bash the controller against your leg to get it going again.Of course, what many of us are waiting for is a true return to form for the series, after the disappointing Homecoming. With Resident Evil 5 refusing to take Capcom's survival horror series to the next evolutionary level, we're still waiting for these giants of the genre to adapt to the 21st Century.
One of the most inspiring sessions at the Game Developers Conference last month was the Experimental Gameplay Challenge, a two hour romp through some of the most exciting new game design technology out in the (indie) space. The room was packed, fully of AAA developers and those rising through the ranks, looking for new ideas and out-of-the-box thinking.Each of the vetted developers - selected from over 60 submissions - had 10 minutes to explain their tech and how, as moderator and Braid developer Jonathan Blow explained, the designs are "pushing the boundaries of game design in the most interesting and thoughtful way."These gamesmustbe played to be believed.The Unfinished SwanWhat is it?A first-person painting game25-word pitch:You start the game in a white space and have to shoot black paint to uncover the scene and solve puzzlesInspiration:Kids' books. Specifically, Alice in Wonderland. Developer Ian wanted to create experiences people hadn't had before, the surreal moments that are somewhat familiar but are in a context that is differentWhy it works:The Unfinished Swan is visually extraordinary and provides just the right amount of encouragement to compel players forward. Every 60 seconds, something wonderful happensShadow PhysicsWhat is it?A platform puzzler25-word pitch:You are a 2D being in a 3D world: you play the shadow of a game's avatar, only interacting with the shadows projected by 3D objects.Inspiration:After seeing an artist friend slave for days over a shadow sprite in a studio game, the developers wanted to celebrate the excellent shadow work created by game artists that usually gets overlooked.Why it works:The game challenges the player to think spatially, and to consider the whole environment - the light sources, the objects, the textures, the positions - when playing the game rather than just what s/he can see at first glanceMiegakureWhat is it?A 4-D platform puzzler25-word pitch:Taking a traditional 3D game environment, this game extrapolates this into '4D', by rotating the world to create three interrelated parallel universes.Inspiration:I can only assume hallucinogenics were involved.Why it works:After you manage to get your head around the 4D-ness and the trippy visuals as you transfer from one world to another, the possibility for really clever puzzles are endless. For example, because moving an object in one 'world' changes things in another, you can challenge the player to move through space only in shadow, by using the light sources and objects from other worlds.Spy PartyWhat is it?A multiplayer whodunnit mystery puzzler25-word pitch:Infiltrate a cocktail party, accomplish espionage missions, avoid detection.Inspiration:'Fugitive' from Indie Game Jam01. James Bond. Cocktail party etiquette.The Turing Test.Why it works:You're a sniper who's got to shoot the only human-controlled person (spy) at a cocktail party, basing your decision only by reading social cues. Like Minesweeper, but using social interaction.Storyteller,I Wish I Were the Moon,Heartbroken25-word pitch:Try to change the ending of a story by manipulating only six factors.Inspiration:Cinderella. Princess Bride. Choose-Your-Own-Adventure.Why it works:Very simple but effective mechanic with instant feedback.FateWhat is it?Puzzler-Platformer25-word pitch:You have to complete a series of impossible levels by manipulating fate using projections of future outcomes based on your current actions.Inspiration:Prince of PersiaWhy it works:Encourages lateral thinking and clever puzzles.Today I DieWhat is it?Puzzler, but with words25-word pitch:Change the words of the poem to save the girlInspiration:Will Wright's Emily Dickinson Game Design Challenge gameWhy it works:So simple, so lovely.FlowerWhat is it?The celebrated wind-based action puzzler25-word pitch:You are a petal surfing the wind currents over an open field seeking a swarm to call your own.Inspiration:WipEout; to create a space that's free, safe and full of love; experience, then retrofit the gameplayWhy it works:a great balance of goal-orientation and exploration. And really beautiful.AchronWhat is it?Meta-time Real Time Strategy25-word pitch:An RTS with chrono-fluidity: players are free to go back in time and change their pasts to manipulate the future.Inspiration:Total Annihilation and others games like it; Time Bandits; Back to the Future; Lost.Why it works:A beautifully-designed, exponentially complex game with amusing paradoxes: by going back in time before, say, your side was wiped out by an opponent with the nuclear weapons you&nbsp; researched in the future, you can nuke your enemy before they kill you, and can fight alongside your own troops.ClosureWhat is it?Platform puzzler25-word pitch:Find your way through the dark levels using light sources, making your way through&nbsp; solid surfaces using the darkness cast by shadowsInspiration:SamorostWhy it works:"Dark levels have always been an effect, not a mechanic," explained Tyler Glail, designer of Closure. Because you can only walk on solid surfaces that you see, and you can go through obstacles that are shrouded in darkenss, the puzzles are clever and complex, and the solutions are co-created by the designer and the player. He wanted to make a game that defied expectations while forcing players to re-think the experiences they've brought from other games.Where is my heart?What is it?Platformer25-word pitch:A linear, 2D multi-faceted puzzler that's been chopped into comics-like cells and rearranged, so players leave one frame and enter another one across the screen.Inspiration:Comix Zoneon the Sega GenesisWhy it works:Lovely graphics. A simple, parsimonious idea with a steady learning curve and real opportunity for complex challenges.ROM CHECK FAILWhat is it?Arcade action25-word pitch:Seven classic opposing duos are split and mixed, so a good guy from one game plays against a bad guy from another, for approximately 5s.Inspiration:Classic arcade games, Wario Ware, Bishi Bashi SpecialWhy it works:Everyone's familiar with the mecahnics of the games, but every time it changes, it changes a lot. Frenetic, frantic and fast. Lots and lots of gameplay options. Great pacing.There were a couple other games on show, but I had to run to another session. Check out the other coverage of this session atGameSetWatchandGamasutra, and try the games out: they'll blow your mind!Other GDC2009 coverage from the gamesblog:All About Noby Noby BoyHideo Kojima keynoteRhianna Pratchett, Games WriterLittle Big Planet: An interview with Alex and MarkTommy Talarico, Game Music AmbassadorGame Design Challenge: My First TimeNintendo's president shares the secrets of their success, and a tantalising new gameJane McGonigal on making the world a better place through gamesRisks and rewards of new territoriesGame Developers Conference 2009: Preview
Ok, so being the fourth fastest-selling console in UK history isn't perhaps the sexiest honour, but for what is essentially an upgrade rather than a reinvention, the DSi has donepretty wellon its launch weekend. Only the PS3, Wii and PSP have sold more on their opening weekends. And yes, the PSP really was that hot once.The launch day weekend figures are even more impressive when you consider the lack of launch titles. Historically new consoles have been accompanied by at least a couple of must-have titles to drive sales of the hardware. But not the DSi. Ok, the DSi isn't technically a new console but you get my point. So why are people buying the DSi? The camera? The store? The fact that you can get a good trade-in for your old DS Lite? What do you think?
In 1996, when the web was young, someone emailed me with a brilliant idea. Scott Kurnit from The Mining Company was starting an information site that would bring together thousands of people who were experts in their particular field – computing, cooking, cartooning or whatever – and host them under one giant umbrella. It would be calledAbout.com.At the time, thousands of amateurs were setting up small websites, but most of them didn't really know what they were doing. Even if they did, there would be thousands of small sites that all looked different, and had different editorial standards. By joining About.com, these would-be webmasters could band together, share site designs, and get basic training and support.They would get more visitors, because most people who went to About.com would generally visit two or three different topics. They would even make a little money – $250 a month, to start – because About.com would be big enough to sell advertising to companies that would never deal with lots of small amateur websites.About.com was duly launched on 21 April 1997, and it was a success, though it was nothing like as successful as I'd expected. The quality was patchy, the site wasn't easy to navigate, the page design was flat and dull, and About.com had an annoying habit of "framing" other sites. (If you click a link to go to a different site, its content is shown under a big About.com header.)About.com has changed a lot since then, though the basic idea is still the same. The company was bought by Primedia in 2000 for about $690m, and rationalised: more than 40% of the topic sites were closed, according to Wikipedia. Then the New York Times took it over in 2005 for $410m.About.com now has a very clean front page that provides several ways to find useful content, including a prominent search box. You can use three drop down boxes to Browse Our Channels (which go from Autos to Video Games), Explore Our Topics (an alphabetical index), or See What's Hot Now. The site boasts of having "750 experts here to help you" and each topic has a blog, a newsletter and a reader forum.Of course, the web has changed even more since About.com started. Google allows people to search for content across millions of sites, so they don't need everything in one place. Wikipedia enables people to look things up quickly, and there are loads of specialised sites that provide far more comprehensive coverage than About.com.But About.com is still one of the top content sites in the US, attracting 38 million unique visitors a month – 61% of them college graduates, and 63% of them female,it says.And About.com isstill looking for freelance guidesin a wide range of subjects such as mountain biking, needlepoint, mobile games, soap operas and stay-at-home moms, with pay starting at $675 per month. It's one way to get into, or out of, journalism.
The "news" - the quotation marks being the journalistic equivalent of those tongs you hold cloth nappies with - thatIBM and Sun have all but abandoned their takeover talksgot me thinking: haven't I heard this before? Or, more to the point, haven't I heard something that resembles this?And I realised I had: what if there were no Benny Cemoli, and he were reporting on the talks?Consider this: we first heard, through the medium of the Wall Street Journal, and subsequently the New York Times, that thetwo companies were in talks- perhaps Sun would be bought for$6.5bnin cash, or perhaps $9bn in a cash-and-shares deal. Well, some sort of deal, anyhow. Sun's stock, which was wallowing around in the part of the tank normally reserved for lobsters, leapt.Both companies, meanwhile, declined to comment on whether there were any talks. (This indicates that there likely were talks.)Then we heard that the price had been raised. And then we heard that the talks were in trouble. And then we heard that some of the Sun board didn't like it and that the talks had broken down.Which leaves us... with IBM and Sun still separate companies, andabsolutely nothing changed- apart from a brief goosing of Sun's stock price (which most likely will slump again once the US markets digest the news).I'm reminded, powerfully, of the Philip K Dick short story "If there were no Benny Cemoli". (Lots of things remind me of PKD, partly because he wrote a lot, I read a lot of them, and I like his stuff. So nyah.)That particular story is about a group which is trying to persuade a visiting government force not to intrude too closely into how they got into power. In order to manage that, they have subverted the newspapers (which are written, naturally, by machines in that far-flung future age) so that they report that Benny Cemoli has gained a growing following and threatens to destabilise those in power. (I don't think theWikipedia entryquite has it right.)Intriguingly, Steve Duplessiereckons it's a conspiracy, with an intentional leak - and he knows who he blames:I can't imagine IBM doing it - because they simply don't do that, and what possible motivation would they have?  Sun could have done it, because they are not exactly known as a logical, nor quiet, entity sometimes and might have felt they could get a bidding war going, which is precisely wrong - as it's proving out. The bankers might have done it to try to get anything at all going, which means there never was a deal at all - and the bankers were hoping to create one by generating defensive bidding - which also proved out to be flawed. While Sun is a more obvious potential leak than IBM, the bankers might be the truly guilty parties here. Both would know that the Journal is the right place to leak - they will defend their sources to the death, and by having the Journal run the original story, it gives it credibility instantly - regardless of the fact that it may end up that they were played like a fiddle.Indeed, the bankers (meaning: Sun's bankers, since it's got a financial squeeze on) could be playing the part of the people creating Benny Cemoli here. If his name turns up in the story bylines, then you know it's all come true.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
A lot more than it did yesterday. That's because, from today,information about every internet user in the UK will be stored, as part of a government scheme to keep hold of data about people's activities.It's the result of a European directive which has been slowly introduced to the UK since 2007 - all in an attempt to help law enforcement and intelligence agencies.Phone companies are already compelled to retain information about the calls you make - whether from your landline phone or your mobile (although the details of your calls are not kept). But now internet service providers will be storing specific data for up to 12 months - with the costs of doing so being covered by the Home Office.Among the information that will now be kept about your online activities:&middot;The user ID that identifies you to your ISP, as well as your telephone number and the IP address of your computer&middot;The name and address of the internet subscriber who is responsible for that telephone number and IP address&middot;The details - such as user ID, telephone number or address - of anybody you contact through email or using an internet telephony service such as Skype&middot;The details of any time that you go online, as well as specific details of any time you log into an email service or internet telephony systemThe actual content of your emails, internet calls and activity are not retained, however.
IBM has withdrawn its $7bn offer to buy Sun Microsystems this weekend, clouding the prospects for a deal that would have shaken up the computing industry.It is not clear whether Sun and IBM will eventually return to their talks, which were in theirfinal stages in recent days. But IBM took its deal off the table this weekend after Sun terminated IBM's status as its exclusive negotiating partner, according to a person familiar with the situation, who was not authorized to disclose the negotiations and spoke on condition of anonymity.The breakup of the negotiations was first reported on Sunday by the Wall Street Journal.New York-based IBM was believed to be offering about $9.50 per share for Sun. That was about double the price the Californian server and software maker was trading for when thediscussions leaked last month.Sun was one of the darlings of the dotcom era but spent most of this decade struggling to find its place, wrestling with huge losses and thousands of layoffs. As a result many analysts were not surprised Sun and IBM were in talks.Sun still owns key server and business software technologies that might have fit in IBM's product and services lineup. But a deal likely would have faced antitrust questions.
We've got an interesting piece running today that covers the thoughts of Spotify co-founder Daniel Ek, who thinksplenty of fans are still prepared to pay for music- but here's somethingelsethat might raise an eyebrow.Sometime this week Spotify plans to launch an API that will give developers access to the service's innards – even to the point of being able to bake their own Spotify clients.The API will let third parties embed Spotify's technology in a variety of gadgets: including mobile phones, TV set-top boxes and games consoles."This is the first step towards becoming more of a platform," Ek told me on the phone from Sweden over the weekend. "There are lots of services that have APIs, but this is different because it lets anyone build a Spotify client."He mentioned companies like Sonos and Logitech (who already make music streaming systems) but also the Xbox, PS3 and others."If somebody wants to build it into media centre PCs, or if a company wants to integrate Spotify into TV screens, they can… several companies are working on stuff right now – we can't announce anything at the moment, but it's very interesting."Allowing other companies and independent developers to create services that link into Spotify would not only help the manufacturers, said Ek, but also allow Spotify itself to reach more people than is currently possible.For example, while it's known that the companyis developing an appfor the iPhone, the new APIs would enable anybody to build for their choice of mobile handset."There are lots of areas where we don't have the resources to develop ourselves," he said. "This takes a lot of workload off our backs, and we don't know every way that people want to use the service."I also asked Ek how user figures had changed since the site opened up earlier this year. He said that around 40,000 new users were signing up every day; and also claimed that users spend an average of 70 minutes on the siteeach day– an astonishing figure that he said offered proof that the beleaguered music industry should be thinking about new ways to reach its audiences."People consume music all over the web today; you want to consume music on a wide variety of devices and the music business needs to adapt to that… it's the only way to get people paying for music again."It's not all been plain sailing for the Stockholm-based business, of course. The companyhas had some trouble with its music licenses, and has stepped back from launching in the United States because of concerns over the cost of online radio there.And Spotify came in for plenty of criticism earlier this year when it revealed that asecurity breachmeant that some users' personal details could have been stolen.After further investigation, however, Ek said that the company discovered only 40 accounts were potentially compromised – and that there was no evidence that any criminal activity took place as a result."Most of the users were Spotify employees," he told me. "I think we took all the appropriate measures."
Internet service providers are to keep records of emails and online phone calls under controversial new government regulations that come into force today.ISPs will be legally obliged to store details of emails and internet telephony for 12 months as a potential tool to aid criminal investigations. Although the content of emails and calls will not be held, ISPs will be asked to record the date, time, duration and recipients of online communications.The new regulations are contained in an EC directive on data retention that already applies to telecoms providers and is now being extended to ISPs.The directive was conceived as a response to the London bombings of July 2005, following which the Council of the European Union highlighted "the need to adopt common measures on the retention of telecommunications data"."Knowing when someone sent an email or made an IP telephony call, and knowing who they emailed or called, is very revealing information - these regulations potentially put that information in the hands of a wide range of public bodies," said Sam Parr, a lawyer specialising in communications at Baker &amp; McKenzie.Shami Chakrabarti, the director of Liberty, said this was "nowhere near as disproportionate and terrifying" as government plans for a central database of communications information, which she believes poses a greater long-term threat to civil liberties.
Record sales are down, illegal file sharing persists and a whole generation is getting used to enjoying music for free.But Daniel Ek, the man behind Spotify, the world's fastest growing online music service, is convinced that fans will still pay for songs they love if they are packaged in the right way.In one of his first interviews since the British launch in February of the "online jukebox" which allows users to listen to songs instantly for free in return for occasional adverts, Ek outlined a new blueprint for the music industry.Ek is confident that the future is bright if the music industry seizes the digital initiative. "If you truly connect and empower your fan base, people will pay for music. Perhaps that revenue won't come primarily from selling records, but ad-supported music services, subscription music, downloads, merchandise and live shows as well as CD sales are all going to make money for labels and artists," he told the Guardian.Today Brighton's new music festival and convention The Great Escape - think South by Southwest by the seaside - announced that Ek will share a stage with Patrick Walker, director of video partnerships at YouTube/Google at the event next month.The pair will discuss new ways of making money and halting the decline of the music industry. With Spotify seen by many as the most important digital tool to hit the music industry since Napster, and YouTube embroiled in a rights row after removing all premium music videos from its site, it promises to be explosive, said Martin Elbourne, founder and creative director of the Great Escape. "YouTube is now bigger than MySpace for the music industry and Spotify is seen as its potential saviour, to have them sharing a stage is very exciting," he said.Bands who have grasped the digital nettle include Radiohead, who turned the industry on its head when they invited fans to pay what they liked to download their album In Rainbows and Coldplay, who released their first single Violet Hill off their new album Viva la Vida exclusively on their website for one week. The album's title track went on to become Coldplay's first British number one based on download sales alone, after it was released solely on iTunes.But rock band the Nine Inch Nails are seen by industry experts as the true trailblazers. Having connected with fans in a range of ways - from leaving USB sticks containing exclusive content in the toilets of their gigs to creating secret websites - the group's most recent album was released without a label in a variety of formats.Among other options, fans could download the first nine songs for free, get the entire 36-track album for $5 (&pound;3.37) or opt for one of an edition of 2,500 personally-signed box sets at $300 a piece. And it worked: the deluxe box set sold out in less than 30 hours and the album - available online for free - made $1.6m in its first week of sales."I think the music industry as a whole can be in a better position than it has ever been," said Ek. "There has been a massive shift from ownership to access but people will pay for music if packaged correctly and it offers them something special."However, trying to force people to consume music in traditional ways, by prosecuting file sharing sites or the fans themselves for example, was futile and counter-productive, he said."Music is already available for free - 95% of all music downloads are currently illegal, it is pointless to resist that. Every time that you shut down a service like Napster another one will spring up. Instead, you have to make paying more attractive by offering fans more like exclusive content, interviews, live concerts."Spotify was set up by Ek and fellow Swedish entrepreneur Martin Lorentzon in 2006. It employs an ad-based model that allows users to listen to a huge catalogue of songs in return for listening to an advert around every 20 minutes. Subscribers are able to get the premium service ad-free for &pound;9.99 per month, or 99p per day.But its advertising is so unobtrusive that some experts have questioned if it can make enough money to support itself or if it will follow in the footsteps of two ad-funded US music sites, Spiralfrog and Ruckus, which last week were forced to close due to insufficient ad revenue. Tony Wadsworth, chairman of the BPI, the record industry trade body, said: "It sounds great, it's user-friendly and it's legal, but you have to question any company based on an ad-funded model at the moment. Is it actually going to be possible to make it pay and produce the type of revenue that the creators and investors needs?"Ek is confident it will. In return for access to their catalogues labels will be able to target their audience and market their product like never before, while in exchange for their talent artists will have direct access to their fans, and far more flexibility. And the service on offer is useful enough for users to pay, he said. Although he is far from claiming to be a knight in shining armour Ek is sure that Spotify has its role to play."We just hope that people will use it and that it will create significant revenue for the music industry," he said. "That way we can help support a fragile ecosystem so that artists can go on making music."How the menu for consuming music online is growingAll you can eat, pay as you go, or grab it for freeThe online store:amazon.co.ukAmazon offers MP3 albums for &pound;3, with hit singles from artists ranging from Coldplay to Lady Gaga at 29p.The ad-funded free streaming site:spotify.comSpotify offers instant access to a huge amount of music, legally and without charge, in return for one short audio advertisement every 20 minutes or so.The daddy:iTunes.comThe biggest of the download stores, which also offers many free podcasts.The music social networking site:Loudcrowd.comLoudcrowd.com combines gaming, online chat, social networking and teen-pleasing electro-indie music. Users sign up, create their own animated character who dances to tracks and can chat to other users.The legal downloading site:7digital.com7digital offers legal downloads at bargain prices, with albums from &pound;5.The suggestive site:last.fmType in a favourite artist and last.fm plays their music and music from others like them.Another ad-based streaming site:we7.comWe7 lets you stream more than 3m tracks and download free MP3s by the likes of Mot&ouml;rhead, Moby and the Kinks, with an advert played before each song.
Renault laguna coupe&pound;20,995Miles per gallon: 47.1CO 2 per km: 157 gramsGood for: the motorwayBad for: the fairwayNext time you sit behind the wheel of a new motor and marvel at the fact that the odometer is still in single figures, consider this: your car has already been on an extraordinary journey. Before it even gets to the forecourt it, or rather a fleet of identical prototypes, will have driven hundreds of thousands of test miles. Your car will have been baked in an unforgiving sun and then shut in a -40C freezer. It will have been pelted with grit, hosed with water, blasted with sand. Every switch and button will have had the sort of focused over-use only a bored three-year-old can bring to bear. And then, finally, it will be driven smack into a concrete wall...But there is still one gruelling examination many new cars will fail. The golf-club test. And this week, the car facing the ultimate test is Renault's luscious new Laguna Coupe.Renault has been whetting our appetites recently with a string of desirable concepts, all of which failed to make it to production. The Talisman, the Nepta, the Fluence... But finally an elegant four-seater arrived which got everyone so hot under the collar that Renault's bigwigs gave it the green light - and lo! the Laguna Coupe was born. There are two grades available: the entry level or the GT, the principal difference being that the GT has a 4Control chassis with four-wheel steering. I drove a 2-litre diesel entry-level version and found it hugely rewarding: quick, deft and pin-sharp.I drove over to see my father, who is in the market for a new motor. His one non-negotiable stipulation is that the car must be able to accommodate a full-set of golf clubs. Dad collected his bag and reminded me that "Aston Martin no less" had redesigned its boot to take a full set, and that Nissan's 350Z came with "printed instructions on how to pack a set into its small boot". He heaved in the clubs. The care he took had nothing to do with protecting the car's paintwork and everything to do with making sure Big Bertha was undamaged. It was tight, but they went in. Phew! But Dad looked nonplussed. "There's no room for the trolley," he said. I suggested dropping the split-back seat, taking out the tools. But no, he was firm. "I'm afraid I can only give it a C." Then with uncharacteristic generosity: "But I'll give the rest of the car an A."martin.love@observer.co.uk
Pwned!A video-dictionary entry for that staple exclamation of interweb parlance, "pwned!". You've always wondered what it meant. Watch and learn. Or just watch.Top 100 April Fool HoaxesRelive some genuinely funny pranks from Aprils of yore. The Daily Mail superimposing Jacqui Smith on to a photo of an Ann Summers shop didn't make the cut.Where The Wild Things Are trailerJust leaked, the trailer for this Spike Jonze-directed, Dave Eggers-scripted adaptation of Maurice Sendak's beloved children's book. Yeah Yeah Yeahs' Karen O is taking care of the soundtrack.Cat FaceCats and the internet, as we all know, go together like peaches and cream. But a cartoon cat, discussing cats and the internet? That much meta could melt your mind.TracksGomez - Airstream DriveriTunes, 79pThe one-time Mercury winners show no signs of running out of steam. This is a trademark slice of lowslung Southport blues.The Hold Steady - Chips AhoyiTunes, 79pOne of many highlights from the band's sweat- and beer-soaked live album, A Positive Rage. Compulsive gambling and relationship angst have rarely sounded so euphoric.Jason Lytle - Brand New Sunmyspace.com/jasonlytle, free streamCalifornian Grandaddy beguiled with melancholy alt-pop before splitting. Here, frontman Jason Lytle returns with a taste of his forthcoming solo material.VideosUGK - Da Game Been Good to Metinyurl.com/cj2bz3, free video streamThe video to the first single from the Texan rappers' final album pays tribute in part to late founder member Pimp C.
The life of a British teenager who attempted suicide by taking an overdose was saved following an extraordinary transatlantic police operation involving the Facebook website, the British embassy in Washington, Scotland Yard and Thames Valley police.The alert began when the 16-year-old boy, who had contacted a girl in Maryland, US, on the social networking site Facebook, told her he was about to kill himself.The girl's shocked mother phoned Maryland police, who, via a White House special agent, contacted the British embassy which in turn alerted police in London. Thames Valley officers were contacted at 12.25am on Thursday morning, because it was believed the boy attended a school somewhere in Oxfordshire. Knowing only his first name, detectives used Google and the electoral register to narrow his location to eight potential addresses in the county.They began checking each of the addresses and finally found the teenager, who has not been named, at the fourth address - on the outskirts of Oxford - unconscious in his bedroom. He was rushed to hospital, where he made a full recovery.Chief Superintendent Brendan O'Dowda, who led the operation for Oxfordshire police, said: "We really didn't have much to go on. It was just scant information."
Online messaging serviceTwitterhas been credited with potentially saving somebody's life, after actor Demi Moore used it to intervene in the case of a woman who claimed she was suicidal.In the early hours of Friday morning an unidentified Californian woman broadcast a message on Twitter saying that she planned to kill herself and detailing the methods she would use.Moore picked up the message and rebroadcast it to more than 350,000 fans. As a result, Twitter users began to contact police to warn them of what was happening.San Jose police confirmed that they had received reports of somebody intending to harm themselves, and they had found the woman unharmed, but had taken her into custody for evaluation.Moore, who is one of the most high-profile celebrities to use Twitter, said she did not know the woman. In a response on the site, she said that the incident was a "prime example of the power of collective consciousness".
Intended for colour professionals, colour obsessives and designers who want to up their palette game, this site offers entry into a subject many don't think about much but which affects us in an infinitesimal number of ways. There are breakdowns of the colours used in magazines, movie posters and websites (all oddly interesting), plus shade matching games, advice on fluffing up your social networking and discussions on such thorny topics as "Is black a colour?", the colour world equivalent to "Are Jaffa Cakes biscuits?" The blog is full of fascinating stuff, including info on research demonstrating that proofreading words in red helps concentration, how colour influences the way we shop and why Crayola no longer sell Prussian Blue crayons.
David Lynch has had some interesting ideas for TV shows over the years. One was to interview various experts such as physicists, dentists and scientists, but with the conversation directed at a log. The TV execs didn't go for it, but it led to the Log Lady in Twin Peaks. This and other daily nuggets of strange information can be gleaned at the director's new space, where he's posting videos to publicise his foundation that "provides funds for students to learn how to meditate." Lynch himself says he owes everything to transcendental meditation. Elsewhere you will find Lynch's thoughts on managing workflow, his thoughts on trout and octopus, how to make a movie, some meditation tips and  plenty of live music. This weekend there's even a live stream of events backstage at a benefit show featuring surviving Beatles Paul McCartney and Ringo Starr.
What to dowith those old BASF C90sWhat happenedto The GooniesHow tobalance real friends and Facebook friendsPhotoshop isMadonna's best frenemyLost Babieslet the fear inSix gamesto make tweeting marginally more funSimon Cowelllooks better with Mena Suvari's hair than Mena Suvari doesThe fine artof Seinfeld referencesWe loveLady GaG's Butterface
Internet traffic in Sweden - previously a hotbed of illicit filesharing - has fallen dramatically following the introduction of a law banning online piracy.The country - home to the notoriousPirate Baywebsite, whose founders are awaiting a court judgment on whether they have broken the law by allowing people to find films, games and music for illicit downloads - has previously been seen as a haven for filesharing, in which people can get copyrighted content for free.As many as one in 10 Swedes is thought to use such peer-to-peer services.The so-called IPRED law, which came in to force on Wednesday, obliges internet service providers (ISPs) to turn over details about users who share such content to the owners of copyrighted material, if a court finds sufficient evidence that the user has broken the law.That seems to have spooked some Swedes. Statistics from the Netnod Internet Exchange, which measures internet traffic, suggest that daily online activity dropped more than 40% after the law took effect. The fall in data may be due to people being worried that their ISP will track their data and they may be sued for copyright infringement, which usually carries penalties equivalent to thousands of pounds.Filesharing systems such asBitTorrentcarry enormous amounts of data over the internet; some estimates have suggested that illicit downloads make up at least half of all traffic passing over the network.In Sweden the lawyers for a number of publishers of crime novelists including the late Stieg Larsson have brought a lawsuit seeking to identify a person who had stored about 2,000 digitised audiobooks on a server to make them available for free. Audiobooks - which can be very profitable - are comparatively easily copied from CD.The chair of the Swedish Publishers' Association, Kjell Bohlund, said such filesharing "has hit writers, publishers, and internet book retailers financially, and there is a longer-term risk that publication will decline".The new Swedish legislation is similar to that being sought by copyright owners such as record labels and film studios for the UK and France.
The Apprentice BlogWhy Rocky will win, and the latest Apprentice-related Twitter traffic.Watch With MothersPredicting the wearing of animal costumes, episode reviews and bonus Trevor Jordache.Trump UniversityUS Apprentice big "wig" greases over his celebrity contestants and offers his economic survival tips.Wiki QuotePaul Tulip: I'm just a likable person who can get along with anyone.Interviewer: Well, you're not getting along with me.The GuardianAnna Pickard's excellent live blogs of the UK and US Apprentice, plus Alan Sugar and Raef interviewed.James MaxThe ex-contestant and wolf jacket salesman on this year's batch of Amstrad muppets.
Few lyrics in the history of popular music convey the power of a strong market brand more plaintively than Janis Joplin's Mercedes Benz. "Oh Lord," she sings with appropriate religious fervour, "won't you buy me a Mercedes-Benz/My friends all drive Porches, I must make amends."In making a supplication to consumer yearning, Joplin showed that naked materialism could be spiritual, too. For surely even the most zealous theists among us must occasionally suspect that the presence of a God does not fully compensate for the absence of a Merc.Nevertheless, we can feel confident that the legendary folk-rock diva was not asking her maker for the Mercedes-Benz A 170 Avantgarde SE. Why? First, because Joplin recorded her song in 1970, and the Mercedes A-class did not appear until 1997. And second, the A-class was never going to be the answer to anyone's prayer.Instead it was produced as the answer to several conflicting needs of the modern driver. It was small and yet quite spacious. It was fairly fuel efficient but retained a bit of oomph. And, while not exactly cheap, it didn't cost as much as other Mercedes cars.Put all that together and it spelt success, or it did once Mercedes learned how to rectify the unfortunate habit the early A-class had of tipping over. A Swedish car magazine noted that the car overturned when trying to avoid a moose - a manoeuvre known as Algtest, or "Elk test".So Mercedes installed electronic stability control and, along with the revolutionary impact absorption system, it made the car just about the safest location in which to find yourself outside of a nuclear bunker.But nowadays the roads are crammed with cars that look like the A-class, and nearly all of them are much cheaper. What does the new A 170 have to offer? Better fuel efficiency. Essentially, though, it's the same old car. It handles well, offers good vision, it's robust in a city setting and not too laboured on the motorway, and it's pretty comfortable.But whereas once it occupied a position of multiple purposefulness, it now seems more like a victim of competing concepts. It's neither modest enough to be a knockabout nor smart enough to be a knockout.In this age of carbon guilt, it's when your friends all drive Priuses that you must make amends. If 10 years ago the A-class was a cheapish option for those who wanted to look upmarket, today it's more like an upmarket choice for those who want to look cheap.Paying for the name is one thing, but paying for the name in the name of efficiency is a bit rich. It's no longer the cars but the customers that get turned over. Brand premium is the elephant in the corner. Or perhaps it's an elk.
Imagine that you went to the reception for your doctor one day, and instead of a person there to talk to you, there was a video screen and an avatar. You might be unsettled. But still, you would probably press on, if only to get to that doctor's appointment. "I'm sorry," replies the avatar/secretary, "but there doesn't seem to be any timeslot available for you. Would you like to tell me when you'll next be available? You can scan your calendar on the reader below." And the eyes glance down at the reader under the screen.Now, I think people will generally have one of two reactions to such a scenario: (a) thank goodness that we've finally reached a stage where we can get machines to take over the drudgery of such mundane tasks or (b) who on earth thought that it made sense to replace a comparatively cheap yet enormously flexible human with an inflexible, expensive machine?Consider for a moment which answer you prefer. Have you decided?OK; so earlier this week I had supper with a Microsoft executive (no, not that one) who was absolutely certain that the correct reaction is (a). The executive regaled me with a video demonstration of a similar system that had been trialled within Microsoft, where people could drop by if they wanted a meeting with someone senior. The avatar (who to my view had a rather grumpy mien) would scan the peoples' calendars, looking for mutually convenient slots, and shake her head (intriguing that it's female, eh? Why should a secretary necessarily be female?) if none could be found.At least some people within Microsoft see this as a vision of the future. This I find puzzling.Why? Because it's such a backward approach to the problem of making computer-human interaction better. It seems to me that you don't make CHI (or HCI) better by making computers act more like humans. The fact is that only humans act like humans, and if you set up unrealistic expectations then you set yourself – and more particularly your users – up for frustration. What if you said to the doctor's secretary: "Look, this is really important, I've got blood pouring out of my leg!" Is it going to be sensitive enough to say "In that case, I'll page the doctor at once"? No, there would probably be a big red emergency button for you to hit, which would get the attention of the real doctor. Always assuming that there was a real doctor in the house, and not a telepresence link or a screen-based expert system. Though the latter was something that the Microsoft executive thought would be rather clever: in developing countries, you would have an expert system in remote villages to diagnose illnesses!Which I thought showed how technological optimism runs so far ahead of reality once you reach a certain level in some organisations. All you see are solutions, for which you have to manipulate problems so that they fit – instead of starting at the other end, with the problems, for which you find solutions that are the best fit.So in the case of the doctor's surgery, you hire a person, of whom there are many (especially at the moment), who are remarkably flexible and tend to have the ability not only to listen to what you're saying, but to intuit what your intentions and needs are as well. Stagger in with blood pouring from your leg and it'll be the receptionist, not you, who'll be hitting the big red button. The receptionist will also be able to comfort you while the doctor comes. Try doing that with an avatar.Similarly for developing countries: what you want there isn't fabulously expensive computers that suck up electricity and can't be dropped off a desk and die if they get too much dust; you want people who are trained as doctors, or at least in first aid, and at a pinch, some mobile phones. You want low-cost solutions to medical problems such as malaria: the efforts of that other former Microsoftie, Bill Gates, show that it's actually cheap vaccines which can have the most dramatic impact on survival, not absurd high-cost "solutions" that will be consigned to a corner the day after a small animal builds a nest by the hard drive.And if you really want to see what sort of computerised doctor people really trust, look no further thanEliza. This is a computer implementation – first implemented by Joseph Weizenbaum in 1964 – of a nondirectional therapist, someone who won't try to steer the conversation but will echo back to you parts of your conversation. You find the significance.Weizenbaum was amazed to find that people trusted the computer with their innermost secrets,even though they knew it was a computer. But that was part of it; because it was a computer, they felt that it wouldn't tell on them, unlike a real human.That's where the future for computers-as-doctor really remains: somewhere in the past. I may sound tediously reactionary, but I still think that computers are decades away from coming close to fooling us in conversation, and that the best way to exploit them lies in making them better at what they do, not trying to mimic humans.But I also came away a little uneasy that there are still people near the top of Microsoft who subscribe to the view that we should subjugate ourselves to computers, and that to spend on machines is better than to invest in humans. If there's anything that theevents of the past 18 monthsshould have shown us, it's that trust in machines is eventually dashed. You can't trust machines; only people.Sometimes that hope is dashed too. But at least in that case you know precisely who to blame. Turning off a misbehaving machine is never going to be as satisfying as locking away a miscreant human. And there's always the hope that the human might learn from the experience. Avatar secretaries? I think I'd take my custom elsewhere.
The Conficker Working Group has produced a quick way to check if your Windows PC has a Conficker infection: the Conficker Eye Chart.Go to the site, and if you're one of the 99% or so that don't have it, you'll see the image above. If some of the images are missing, then you may have it.The test is based on Conficker blocking access to some anti-virus sites. It should be accurate, unless you're using a proxy server.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?My Mac. It allows me to edit and score my movies in the comfort of my own home and I can work anytime it suits me without having to travel to an edit suite or scoring studio.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Today. I was putting together DVD extras for my new movie, Long Weekend.What additional features would you add if you could?3D HD editing capability – as in I could edit a movie in 3D and see the effect as I'm working.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Yes – things are moving too rapidly for me to assume that there won't be a plethora of new features available in 10 years.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Programs that crash. I don't understand why we can't invent software that is crash proof. Like instead of crashing, throw up an error message or something. I hate crashes as they occasionally result in precious things being lost forever.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Read the manual. It's boring, I know, but usually explains everything you're likely to need to know. If the manual doesn't have it, check the net – I've been able to solve every problem using this approach.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Nerd. No doubt. I love technology.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my Korg OASYS synth. It's ridiculously expensive, but worth every penny.Mac or PC, and why?Mac. It's beautiful, elegant and always works. I've used a PC for many years in the past and have grown to loathe Windows. I can't think of a single thing that the Mac doesn't do better than the PC, except perhaps for gaming – but I've got consoles for that.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I never download movies. I hate people who do as they're not only robbing filmmakers of revenue, but they're happy to watch low-res versions of movies which is an insult to everyone who makes them. I own a 60in Pioneer plasma and I'm a big fan of Blu-ray. Last thing I bought was Hellboy 2: The Golden Army – Del Toro is a genius.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Yeah, it sounds like a good idea – until they overthrow their human creators and go all Davros on our asses. Then we'll regret it.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A 3D DLP projector. It's only a matter of time before it will be mine.•Jamie Blanksis the editor ofNot Quite Hollywoodand director ofStorm Warning, both of which are now out on DVD. He is also the director of the forthcomingLong Weekendremake.
The computer giant IBM is on the verge of finalising a $7bn (£4.7bn) deal to buy its troubled Californian rival Sun Microsystems, according to reports.It is believed that the two companies could be ready to make an announcement as early as next week, in a move that could bring an end to the financial struggles of Sun – a high-profile maker of computer components, internet servers and software.The possibility of a buyoutfirst became public at the end of March, when it emerged that IBM was considering a bid. At the time, IBM was thought to be preparing an $8bn offer, including $6.5bn in cash – but fresh reports on Friday in the Wall Street Journal and New York Times that have leaked from those involved in the negotiations suggest that the deal could eventually end up being significantly lower.The new deal – which is thought to be worth around $9.50 a share – would be a reduction on IBM's earlier offer, but it is thought that Sun is seeking extra guarantees to prevent the deal from falling apart.It also marks a premium on the company's current market value of around $6bn – a figure which itself has doubled since news of IBM's interest first surfaced three weeks ago.Sun has been touting itself around the industry for some time, but failed to generate much interest in a sale from computer manufacturers including HP and Dell. Although Sun's products are widely used – its database software is a standard for internet development, for example – the company has found it difficult to turn that into profits.The company, which hit its peak during the dotcom boom on the late 1990s, has found it difficult to return to earlier level of success.In 2008 Sun posted a series of significant losses, and has started cutting up to 6,000 jobs in an attempt to reduce costs.Executives at the two companies see as a good match, although the idea has not received a wild reception from industry experts. They have pointed to possible regulatory concerns given the dominance it would give IBM in the internet server market.Regardless of the intricacies of the deal, however, any move is likely to please Sun investors. They have watched the company's share price undergo a precipitous fall over the past year – down from $16 last April to as low as $3.50 earlier this year.One analyst told Bloombergthat the deal could start a new wave of consolidation across the industry as it tries to push through the economic crisis."It's almost like a chess game – what's your move?" said Shawn Wu, of Kaufman Bros. "One company makes their move, then you make your move."
It's been a while since we did this last, but the end of the week draws nigh - which means it's the perfect time for a new FAQ (that's theFriday Afternoon Question)It's been a busy week, one way or another - what withanti-Tibet hackers,huge, threatening botnetsand Middle Englandrising up against Google(that's not even getting to thebirths documented on Twitter).Instead, trying to pick out a question, I decided to take my inspiration from the so-calledEureka machine- a robotic scientist that could threaten the white coats by being able to conduct science on its own.Given that development, I wonderedhow would science have been different if it was always conducted by robots?Would a Darwinbot have decided that the tin opener was the pinnacle of evolution? Would (Apple) Newton's laws have been the same? And would Archimedes have rusted in the bath before having his eureka moment?Be imaginative. The funniest/smartest answer gets a pat on the head.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Nintendo's DSi launches today in the UK. I posted myimpressionsof the new handheld last week but what do you think? Planning to get one today? Already got one? If so what do think of it so far?
Any villains inspired to checkGoogle Street Viewto see whether a personal visit to the Buckinghamshire village of Broughton might be profitable, have been confounded. The residents formed a human hoarding to block the camera's view of their streets, then forced its vehicle into ignominious retreat.In the satellite images on Google maps the village looks jolly nice: back gardens the size of small parks, swimming pools, tennis courts, two cars parked outside most of the large houses, a smart pink parasol behind one house on London Road.But a note on the Google website says, of Broughton, "no street view", a sign that usually means the area has not yet been added to the millions of photographs that now reveal aspects of towns across nine countries and three continents - in brick-by-brick detail.In fact, once Paul Jacobs spotted the Google camera when he glanced out his window on Wednesday, the photographers did not get far. The car was an unmarked black Opel, but the 360-degree camera on the roof was a bit of a giveaway. Jacobs rushed round banging on neighbours' doors, and soon had a posse surrounding the driver. When one of the residents called the police, there was a swift U-turn. Jacobs said there had been three burglaries in the last six weeks: "If our houses are plastered all over Google, it's an invitation for more criminals to strike."Google was inundated with complaints of privacy being invaded in the days after it launched the British street view service.A Google spokeswomansaid householders were entitled to request their property be removed from the site, and that the site blurred faces and car number plates, so did not break privacy laws.
Often first in the trade-in pile come Aug/Sept it looks like I could be keeping my copy of FIFA 09 for many years to come. Not because of any great improvements – though this is the best one yet, at least until 2010 anyway – but because this could be the last to feature Southampton FC.  Thepotential implosionof the Saints has caused me anger, sadness and shock but – and I promise I'm dragging this rapidly around to gaming – nothing can match the intensity of thelatest PS3 firmware update.Ok I jest, but PS3 owners will at least now be able to text chat with up to 15 other players and sort their friends via online status. Not exactly earth shattering then, but further evidence of the PS3's increasing move towards Xbox Live functionality.Currently you get what you pay for. Live, which costs around 40UKP a year, is more fully featured and easier to use than the free PSN. But the PS3's offering is catching up. Having said that text chat is not exactly practical when mid-Killzone session, and you have to wonder how useful it will actually be? Any PS3 owner here downloaded firmware 2.70 yet?
