The internet entrepreneur who founded Bebo has paid $1m (£660,000) to buy back the social networking site five years after selling it to AOL for $850m.Michael Birch, who co-founded the site with his wife, Xochi, in 2005, tweeted late on Monday: "We just bought back Bebo for $1m. Can we actually re-invent it? Who knows, but will be fun trying …"Once the darling of younger teenagers in Britain, Bebo reached a peak of 40 million monthly users in 2008 when it was bought by AOL in a deal widely regarded even at the time as significantly overpriced.By 2010 a lack of strategic leadership on the part of AOL and the rapid growth of Facebook had crippled Bebo, and AOL in effect closed it down, though users could still access the site.The investment consortium Criterion Capital Partners bought Bebo's assets for between $2.5m and $10m in June 2010, later bringing Birch on board as strategic adviser.Birch is now the sole owner after beating two rival bids in a post-bankruptcy auction. A team of designers and engineers at Birch's San Francisco-based business Monkey Inferno are now working on redesigning the site.Shaan Puri, chief executive of Monkey Inferno, said: "We're excited about the ambitious challenge of bringing Bebo back, and couldn't be happier to announce that the product will be back in the hands of the founders. We know the odds are stacked against us but we love challenges and the Bebo users deserve better that what they have received in the past few years."Puri added: "The $1m purchase covered all of the assets of Bebo Inc (hardware, software, intellectual property etc). In simple terms, we now own the website clear of any other shareholders."Needless to say, we are ecstatic to have the site back in the hands of the founders! It will be a huge challenge to reinvent Bebo, but we're up for the challenge."Birch faces a significant battle to differentiate Bebo from Facebook, which allows users to join from the age of 13. Bebo's core user base was younger teenagers, a notoriously fickle market as the rival MySpace also discovered.While MySpace has attempted a slick redesign and refocus on music, teens have also shifted towards apps including Snapchat, which lets users share pictures that self-destruct, and sharing tools such as Vine and Instagram.Bebo is re-entering a very competitive and fast-moving market with only a fraction of its peak userbase. The site had 420,000 unique visitors in the UK in May this year, down from 626,000 in May 2012, according to comScore.The Birches owned 70% of Bebo when it was sold to AOL and were estimated to have made $595m from the deal. Michael Birch has subsequently been an active investor in other startups, putting money and time into citysocializer, the Smarta startup awards and becoming a partner at PROfounders capital. He also started The Battery, a private members' club in San Francisco, as well as Monkey Inferno. Birch joins an exclusive list of executives who have returned to save their companies, including the Dell founder Michael Dell and Steve Jobs, who turned a floundering Apple into the world's most valuable company.
Set to be one of the key launch titles in the next generation console war, Ubisoft's open-world cyberpunk thriller, Watch Dogs, looks to be a fascinating comment on surveillance and urban paranoia. Following hacktivist vigilante Aiden Pearce, the game takes place in an alternative Chicago where the city's infrastructure is controlled by one central computer. When Pearce manages to gain control of the system, he uses it to take on a mysterious cabal of enemies.Blending elements of the stealth and strategy genres within an action-adventure format, this is another epic narrative undertaking from Ubisoft Montreal, the studio behind the Assassin's Creed and Far Cry titles. To get an inside look at the making of the game, anda few hints at the team's ambitions, we spoke to lead designer Danny Belanger, creative director Jonathan Morin and producer Dominic Guay. Here's what they had to say about next generation game design, AI and the increasingly malleable divide between single- and multiplayer experiences.First of all, Watch Dogs looks really beautiful; the streets are filled with very naturalistic civilians. There's a reality about it all. At the PS3 press conference back in February, David Cage talked about how games will become more emotionally complex as graphical fidelity increases. Do you agree? As characters become more human, will games shift in tone?Dominic Guay:I don't want to contradict David Cage, but… I could doodle a short story that could make someone cry. It's true that we can relate to a realistic human more easily, but when I watch Pixar movies I have a lot of emotions. I think everybody cried during Toy Story 3 and those characters don't look like realistic humans. It's as much about story telling. Of course, high fidelity is going to help us out, and it will be especially useful in bringing new people to games. This idea of the suspension of disbelief - which is this state we try to get gamers into - I think as fidelity improves, more people will be able to do that.It seems that there is a main story running through the single-player mode, but how much freedom will we have within that? Are there emergent possibilities there?Danny Belanger:There's a campaign, complete with main missions and a narrative, and then there's what I call the 'player narrative'. Once you're in a mission and you have an objective – say, to get information from this person – that is a problem and you can use the tools in anyway you want to solve it. We're not saying, mission A is shooting, mission B is driving, mission C is stealth; If you're clever and you really use the tools you can play it the way you want. That's the philosophy of the team.Have there been any surprising emergent behaviours so far from testers?DB:In some of the play tests, people have been finding really clever ways to work around the problems – one guy used a motorcycle to jump over a whole section of the map to get to the end. That's fine, he used the environment to his advantage. If players are really breaking the game, then we'll find ways to deal with that, but if it's within the rules of the universe, it's okay. We're giving you a lot of tools, so we won't stop you using them.So Watch Dogs still revolves around a set narrative, but do you think mainstream game design will eventually evolve toward more emergent mechanics?DB:I do believe there's still room for crafted experiences that are fun and immersive, like playing a movie. But an open world game with a lot of quality mechanics gives the player a lot of power. If we succeed with all the mechanics in the game, players may say, well, if an open-world game offers all this variety, will I be tempted to buy a game that only does one thing? And with multiplayer, players just have so much to do.DG:The key stories are the ones that gamers create not the ones we give them. In Far Cry 3, everyone had their own animal story – they weren't talking about the cinematics, they were talking about when a tiger attacked an outpost. The best stories are the ones told by the player. But we're trying to do both. We forced ourselves to push the AI because the player has such an impact on the environment. The AI needs to be able to slide over cars… if you start firing, citizens need to be able to figure out what's going on and where to run. We're benefitting from the technology pool and the knowledge at Montreal. We're sharing with the Assassin's and the Far Cry teams.Ah, so what's the working atmosphere like at Ubisoft Montreal? Do all the teams discuss their projects? I wondered if it might be all very guarded and competitive!DB: We talk! What we're trying to do is take there best practices of those games. What we really believe in is open worlds with progression. No one is copying each other but we exchange a lot on those ideas. And we're very open minded to comments. But all the games have to be unique.DG:The company culture, even at the top level, is about pushing for innovation, giving teams the means to do those things. The key to success for a new IP is time and good technology and a talented team. Sometimes when you have a very large team a publisher will say, okay, you have a year… but we've had four years to make this game - it gives time for the creators to put in place all the things they want. And you want every individual on that team to have the ability to create – not just execute,create. So the way we build our teams is to have cells, which are smaller inter-disciplinary teams that own parts of the game and can push those sections. You have to trust those people. And they have to align with the core objectives.How do you generate the civilians in Watch Dogs – we see that they all have names, jobs and back stories – is this totally random?Jonathan Morin:It's a controlled randomised system. It generates the look of the person, their backstory and anything that might happen to them. We don't control the exact combinations - but that's desirable  to the player because they can discover a lot more narrative than a team can craft. The aim is to create a self-contained world.But it's interesting – this sense of moving away from scripting and surrendering core game aspects to systems. How do designers feel about that?DG:More and more as we build games that are big and rich and very interactive, you can't script everything - you need to start thinking in terms of, well, we can't have 2000 people building this game, we need the systems to manage what's happening. The player will decide what happens.  I've realised now even though you need designers who are very creative, more and more they also need to be very logical - they need to think of systems. The engineers are also becoming designers, because they're thinking of design when they build these systems. So on Watch Dogs, that's how we've been building it. We need to have AIs that can manage anything that the player throws at them. This is changing the way of making games.It seems that there are moments in the single-player game that allow other players into your game as NPCs. How does that work?JM:If you're playing alone in single-player, there are a bunch of ways to discover content when you're free-roaming. Eventually you may trigger something or receive an instruction and suddenly you have an objective – and that objective may well be another player. So now you're in their game. You won;t be told it has happened and maybe you just have to observe the character, but at the end of the mission, whether you succeed or fail, our games separate - now you're back. Certain sequences might be entirely multiplayer in design, but we control the context of how you're doing it. It's an interesting challenge - it's a hell of a headache in design. But it seems that players are really open to it.DG:When I play an action adventure game, I want to live that adventure – I don't want to go into a lobby and play capture the flag. We're trying to bring players together while they're living that adventure and while they're existing in a living city. In the demos we showed at E3 and the PS4 event, while we were playing something that looked very much like single-player, there was actually another player involved who had his own set of objectives and who crossed paths with the other participant. There is a lot of uncharted territory to explore here. Demon Souls was one of the first titles to touch something that's full of potential - we're exploring that in our own way.And while you're creating this narrative adventure, and a whole sort of alternative city to house it in, can you learn any lessons from other media? Does Hollywood have anything to tell you about universe creation?DG:We've worked with consultants who work in Hollywood – not just because they work in Hollywood but because they've been doing for a decade what we're talking about here: thinking of a brand, a universe, that exists beyond what you can watch or play right now. Watch Dogs will be stronger because we've created a universe that goes beyond the limits that you can experience right now. Especially in an open world where you can hack into anyone's data – there's a lot of information at your fingertips and we wanted that info to be relevant... So we can hint at a lot of things going along beyond even the limits of Chicago as you hack into phones and PDAs.Are we heading toward an era where all games are essentially platforms, where there are no sequels, just continuous updates?DG:I Think gamers will decide - I don't think developers will impose that model on players. But clearly what we're trying to do with Watch Dogs is be ready to go in that direction if that's what people want. In the way we build the city, our systems and our technology, we can grow the universe of Watch Dogs either in discreet sequels or in a more gradual way if that is the way the business model evolves.What opportunities have the next generation consoles offered to Watch Dogs?DG:These platforms are almost magnifying lenses on what we're doing. Fundamentally, we're trying to create a new kind of gameplay experience, something new and fresh. What the next-gen consoles allow us to do is have more dynamism, more interactivity. Also a lot of walls are being brought down in terms of connectivity, which will allow users to play together in new ways – either through the consoles or with mobile devices.Can you tell us a little more about the smartphone Watch Dogs companion app? How does it extend the experience?DG:At the core, what we're trying to do is extend the fantasy of Watch Dogs onto mobile - literally holding the city in the palm of your hand. It's not just a mini-map, you have control over the city computers and you can grow that control through the mobile; as you do, you'll get more abilities like Aidan has in the game, so you can hack a train, hack traffic lights, there are scores of examples - you'll be able to do all these things from your mobile.What will you do with that? First of all, you'll be able to play directly against other players on console. I can be on a bus in Montreal and you can be in your living room in the UK, and I can play directly with you. I can also be in the same room with you, on my tablet, helping you out. I can compete and cooperate. I can also grow my control over the city within my mobile and when I get on my console I get clear benefits of that investment. I could play just on mobile for a week and when I get on to my console or PC, I'll get the benefits of that investment in terms of conquering the city. We're trying to go beyond just exposing stats - which is what some companion apps have done in the past. We want it to be a real game, a real point of entry for people to the universe of Watch Dogs.Does the game have one ending then, or does it branch?JM:Yes, one ending. I understand the idea of multiple endings but the problem I have is a branching structure inevitably diminishes the perception the player has of the story, to some extent. I mean you can't divide individual player perception of a game into ten choices, it's so much more complicated than that. Because this is an interactive medium, a lot of people want to tackle that idea of perception, they want, like, six billion different situations so every individual has a logical bond with what's going on based on their own choices. If anyone ever manages that, great! Two thumbs up!But the other way is, stop doing a story that's crafted to such an extent that it's going to tell every player the same message – make a message that's interesting to think about and make an ending that's satisfying, but that retains a question that reflects how you played, and everything you did in the open-world in a personal way, not in a binary way. It shouldn't be about, 'you have 600 points so you've unlocked the answer'; it's a lot more about you. If you care about the question, you're left with wonder. I think we've found a way to respect the player's intelligence and not limit them.Bungie has a 10-year plan for destiny – can you think in that way with Watch Dogs?DG:Honestly that's what we're doing too. Here's the way we think about it: even if we change our minds mid-course or after shipping Watch Dogs and say 'scratch that, we'll do something else', the planning helps to make a strong core. We've all seen TV series where after a season there are a lot of mysteries; then at the start of season two you think, they didn't know what was going to happen - they're just stringing us along! You feel it! And it's the same with games. If there's a clear long-term plan, you'll have stronger characters, the universe will be more coherent. So when you have the luxury of creating a new brand - which is happening less and less in this industry, you need to do just that. We've been doing the same thing Bungie has been doing – we're trying to see how our characters and world will evolve. That's always in the back of our heads.Do you think we're heading into an era where games become the default entertainment in the living room? So instead of entering the room and switching on the TV, people will just switch on a console and flick through their games?DG:That would be great - I think that's what the industry wants; it's definitely what we want for Watch Dogs. We need to make games that are relevant and accessible to people. Even though we're making a mature action adventure game, we're trying to make it relevant to people's lives - that's a good start, I think. I love aliens and zombies and explosions, but that only appeals to a certain amount of people – our game talks about the impact of technology in our lives, and that concerns everybody!• Watch Dogs is released on 22 November for PC, PS3, PS4, Wii U, Xbox 360, Xbox One
Google's claim that it will not need to alter its privacy policy to reflect the impact of its new Glass product has been met with scorn by US authorities.Senator Joe Barton, who co-founded the congressional bi-partisan privacy caucus, senta detailed letter of concernto Google in May asking the company to clarify how Glass users' data would be protected, as well as the privacy of non-users who could be identified through technology including facial recognition.In a lengthy reply, Google's vice-president of public policy and government relations, Susan Molinari, emphasised that Glass is in a trial phase, that there are no plans for facial recognition to be introduced and that existing privacy policies will protect users and non-users.Barton was not impressed, releasingthe following statementon Monday night: "I am disappointed in the responses we received from Google. There were questions that were not adequately answered and some not answered at all."Google Glass has the potential to change the way people communicate and interact. When new technology like this is introduced that could change societal norms, I believe it is important that people's rights be protected and vital that privacy is built into the device. I look forward to continuing a working relationship with Google as Google Glass develops."Molinari deftly avoided a specific question about the fallout from the revelation that Google had inadvertently captured personal information from individuals on unencrypted wireless networks while gathering data for its Street View project. Barton had asked how Google planned to prevent Glass unintentionally collecting data without consent."Protecting the privacy and security of our users is one of our top priorities," Molinari wrote, but then deferred on an answer to the next question about protecting privacy more broadly.Molinari did make some details public about improvements to privacy features for Glass, including ways to lock the device if it is stolen.Eyes are on Google to set a standard of good practice for the wearable technology as multiple devices start to come to market. Its biggest challenge will be to balance the opportunities for the technology and those keen to explore it, with those who see insurmountable problems with a more invasive technology that has implications for the people that come into contact with it as well as the person wearing it.As the security researcherMarc Rogers told Slashgear last month, the challenge is around expectation. The first wearable computer was developed by the maths professor Edward O Thorpin and Claude Shannon in the 1960's to cheat on roulette tables."People weren't expecting someone to be able to take a computer into that environment," said Rogers. "Who's to say what Glass will allow? Industrial espionage, identifying flaws in buildings, scoping out security positions. It would be easy to modify Glass to identify every single security camera, and plot you a path you could walk through a shopping centre where you're not going to be recorded.""What Glass has done is draw people's attention to new concepts. So, if people are talking about the risk of Glass, in reality that risk has been around much longer. It's just Glass is making you think about it."
Bebo, the once indispensable social networking site for young people, has been bought by its original co-founders Michael and Xochi Birch for $1m (£417m at the time, £660m at current exchange rates). Marissa Meyer is doing it at Yahoo. MySpace is having a damn good try. And now Bebo is about to be resurrected. Welcome to comeback corner.The Birches sold Bebo – under the skillful salesmanship of then CEO Joanna Shields –to AOL back in 2008 for $850m when it had 40 million monthly users. Within two years the site had become a disaster for the company, losing swathes of users to Facebook and crippled by a lack of funding and a coherent strategy from AOL.Bebo languished furtheruntil AOL shut it down for tax purposes and then sold it to Criterion Capital Partners in June 2010 for $10m. The Birches were part of the consortium of investors involved in that deal, and Michael Birch came on board as a strategic adviser in December 2010.Birch has always been canny and enthusiastic with investments, and since the AOL/Bebo deal has put his money or his energy into projects including citysocializer, the Smarta startup awards and become a partner at PROfounders Capital. But in returning to Bebo, he's following a fine tradition; Steve Jobs' triumphant return to Apple being the most notable example.The prospect of a Bebo revival came out of the blue with a tweet yesterday from original founder Michael Birch.We just bought Bebo back for $1m. Can we actually re-invent it? Who knows, but it will be fun trying...&mdash; Michael Birch (@mickbirch)July 1, 2013TechCrunch reportsthat Birch beat two other bidders and won the site through a post-bankruptcy auction.Buying the site is the easy part, however. Leaving aside the seemingly insurmountable competition from Facebook, Bebo is a mess. The front page vaguely promotes sharing and 'looping in friends' alongside entertainment and gaming, with some decidedly low-rent ads to boot.There's a sizeable community of people who would be happy to at least try some alternative to Facebook, whose domination of the world's online social communication is ripe for competition, not to mention the whiff of arrogance around use of personal data.How to go about fixing Bebo? Birch sounds like he's up for a challenge, and if he can tap the original magic that pulled that fickle early teen audience onto the site in the first place, then he might just pull it off. What is that likely to involve?Mobile:any self-respecting network will need to be mobile first. Look to auto-destructing photo app Snapchat, or video-sharing Instagram and Vine, or even the user behaviour on BBM, for the kind of activity Bebo might be informed by.Market distinction:Facebook has core networking nailed, mapping out who knows who and how. Bebo already has Facebook integration, so why not build on that until Facebook cuts it off?MySpace famously floundered by trying to do too much when music was always its strength – the new MySpace is, finally, all about the music, but how different would things have been if it had made that move much earlier and pre-empted the rise of Spotify? Bebo needs to pick its USP; with the decline of BlackBerry, maybe that is simply a chat platform.
I'd expected a lot more from Google Glass. The hype around this wearable device – a pair of glasses which incorporate a little screen in the top right of your right eye's field of vision – has been colossal since the release of the first teaser video in April 2012.Glasses that let you see a map without using your smartphone! Hands-free Googling! Sergey Brin, the Google co-founder who had been spotted wearing them in a carefully careless manner on the New York subway, suggested that usinga smartphone was "emasculating", and the company sold around 10,000 to "explorers" who are, right now, its guinea pigs. It's the future – or is it?I'd thought so, until I had a tryout with a pair. My reaction? They're great for particular uses, but you're going to struggle to find a use for them all the time. They're not going to replace looking at your smartphone any time soon. Emasculation may be here to stay, Mr Brin.I'm a fan of wearable computing. I own a Pebble watch, and love it. If someone calls or texts my smartphone, the number and/or the message pops up, with no need to take the phone out of my pocket. I've tried ski goggles which displayed my speed and altitude, as well as a map of the ski resort showing runs and lifts. Back in the 1990s, when virtual reality was all the rage, I tried some of the early models made by a company called Virtuality which incorporated little displays to show you a virtual world, just like Google Glass does (except Virtuality's didn't show anything else).So I was expecting a lot from Google Glass. Perhaps too much.The device, lent to me by one of the explorers (whom I won't name, as Google has been known to disable devices), is pleasantly light. You can wear it without lenses, so you just have the frame, and a little lens above your eye. It doesn't feel strange, though of course weirdness is in the eye of the beholder. And I wear that Pebble, so don't ask me for style tips. The frame is made of titanium, which you can happily bend to fit your face without breaking.Getting startedYou turn Glass on by tilting your head up, or tapping the side of the frame. This activates the tiny screen. It then just shows the time, and the phrase "OK Glass", which seems to float about six inches in front of the right of your face.Say "OK Glass", or tap the side again, and you get a menu – options such as "Google … ", "take a picture", "record a video", "get directions to … ", "send a message to … ", "make a call to … ", "hang out with … " – the latter being a shared video feed. All require a smartphone connected via Wi-Fi or Bluetooth to function. Otherwise Glass is just a fancy low-res camera.The menu is too long to fit onto the screen, so you have to learn to tilt your head up or down to see the others (though after time you'd remember them).You then say aloud what you want: "Get directions to King's Cross", or "Google 'how high is the Empire State Building'". The voice recognition is accurate, though it misfired a few times on the Empire State Building, whichwe tried a few times for our film. The results are read back to you by a microphone just beside your ear using bone conduction, so it's almost inaudible to outsiders.Of course,youwon't have been inaudible. By this stage you've already given your instructions to the crowded train carriage. You're also wearing something that makes you look like something from Star Trek's Borg, with no lenses. Normal people don't do this. If you were worried about what people think of you using this technology, you might not have left the house.Taking pictures and videos is easy. You don't even have to say: "OK Glass, take a picture". You can just press a button on the top of the sidepiece, or hold it down for video. There's no warning to anyone around you that you're doing so, no red light, no audible click. That seems like a potential privacy concern, and very different from the situation that has pertained ever since mobile phones became camera phones.The best use for Glass, said the explorer who lent it to me, is for maps. You don't have to pull your smartphone out of your pocket when you're walking around somewhere unfamiliar. All you do is ask for directions, and it updates the display.OK Glass, that's great. But is it worth the estimated $500 (£330) to $1,000 cost? It's hard to see, especially considering the nitty-gritty of trying to make the device work nicely with a smartphone, which consumed about half an hour of our time as we tried to join Wi-Fi networks (it can't join password-protected ones) and link over Bluetooth (it kept dropping the connection).The right swipesThere's also the perplexity involved in finding your way around the system. Go deeper than the main menu and you can view the pictures you've taken, searches you've made, directions you've taken, all shown chronologically. You can change settings. This is all done by swiping the sidepiece with a finger – back or forward, and then up or down. Swipe the wrong way, however, and you've deleted a video without warning. Oops. There's a lack of obvious controls in the interface. Adding apps is going to remain a geek's pastime for some time.I can see niche markets that will embrace Glass. Anyone whose job requires having both hands free or looking up details (from a manual?) will find them a boon. Surgeons have already found uses for them. I can imagine delivery drivers and repair mechanics getting plenty of use from them too, for taking a picture of a signature at an address, or of a faulty part and its replacement. The potential there is huge.For the ordinary person, though, I can't quite see it. Most people don't walk around needing to Google things. We use our phones for tasks. The idea of Glass seems to be that rather than us shaping the tool – pulling out a camera (phone) to take a picture or video, or doing a search or sending a text when we need to – the tool tries to shape us, reminding us that we should be Googling at all times, taking part in Google Hangouts, getting directions from Google Maps.There are Twitter and Facebook apps, and one from the New York Times, but in a world where we're already in a state of constant distraction, this seems like a step too far for no obvious return. Glasses used to be something that helped you see the world better. For the average person, Google Glass feels like something that would make you see the world less, and replace it with a world seen through a giant corporation's interests, funnelled through a tiny screen suspended above one eye.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Mattrick's departure will be Xbox One's pivot point | GamesIndustry InternationalInteresting piece by Rob Fahey on how Microsoft can now re-build its Xbox One messaging after the departure of Don Mattrick:As a rule, Microsoft ploughs ahead with its product strategies until either the world bends to its will or the product crashes into a mountainside. Tugging and pushing at unfamiliar controls as it tries to turn Xbox One from its course, Microsoft appears to have found the pilot ejector seat switch and thought "hey, this one is worth a shot!".SpyParty's Next Claim To Fame? It Will Be 'The Most Diverse Game Ever' | Kotaku AustraliaWe've been watching the development of Chris Hecker's fascinating asymmetrical two-player espionage sim for ages and finally it's in open beta. Kotaku has an interesting interview with the developer who talks about how the game's reliance on social interactions with various characters may be skewed by player prejudices:"One of the aesthetic goals of my game is to explore consequential decisions with partial information. Things like racism, sexism, homophobia, all of these add tiny little biases that people might not even realise. All of that kind of stuff comes up in the milieu of the game when you've got all of these different diverse characters."Sony Confirms PlayStation 4 Does Not Have a Power Brick | IGNShuhei Yoshida, Sony President of Worldwide Studios, has confirmed via Twitter that the PlayStation 4 will not use a power brick. Instead, the power supply will be housed internally, not unlike the Xbox One.Will anyone get nostalgic for huge power bricks now that we seemed to have moved away from that era? I for one won't miss trying to fish them out from the back of my TV, dredging countless other cables up in the process.Gamers on YouTube: Evolving Video Consumption | GoogleInteresting report on the sorts of video content enjoyed by gamers on YouTube. Apparently user-generated material does almost as well as official content – but the two come into play separately.First, as gamers moved from researching to purchasing and playing, we discovered that they viewed brandreleased and community-created videos, but relied on them at different times. Before a game came out, fans mostly watched content released by the brand, such as announce, gameplay demo, and launch videos. A previous study found that 92% of gamers research a title before buying, and that brand-released game video is the most influential piece of publisher content. Post-release, those who purchase a game switch their attention to advancing through it and engaging with that game's community.Inside the actor's studio with Nolan North | Eurogamer.netNolan North chats to Eurogamer about his approach to playing characters like Deadpool and, of course, Nathan Drake:"I became a better actor - on camera, voice-over-wise [and] everything - when I stopped trying to play a character and played me as that character," North says. "I remember an audition I did when I had to play this assistant to a wedding planner. I just wasn't getting it. I memorised it and I went it and I didn't get the role. When I went back and talked to a buddy of mine who's an acting coach, I said, 'gosh, I thought I really had this.' He looked at me and said, 'You know what? You're playing Chet, the wedding planner.' I said 'Yeah.' He goes, 'Play Nolan, the wedding planner, whose name happens to be Chet.'"Bertolt Brecht 1 - Stanislavski 0SpecialEffect in call for Team Fortress voteSpecialEffect, the remarkable charity set up to make gaming more accessible to disabled players, has commissioned a set of custom objects for Team Fortress 2.To help meet our goals for this year, we've partnered with some stellar community artists to put together three great items for Team Fortress 2. If voted in by the community, 99% of the profits for these items will go towards helping people get back into the games they love.Simply click on the link above and VOTE for them to be included on the game's store! They're cool items too.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWireless contact lens display now a reality &gt;&gt; ExtremeTechIt has finally been done: A team of US and Finnish bioengineers have embedded an antenna, radio receiver, control circuitry, and LED into a wearable contact lens. If you're a rabbit, you can hop along to their research lab at the University of Washington, Seattle, and try it out right now — but if you're a human, you'll still have to wait a couple more years for the bionic, Terminator-like HUD of your dreams.The team, led by Babak Parviz, has successfully displayed a single, remotely-controlled pixel onto a contact lens worn by a rabbit.Presumably glasses kept sliding off the rabbits' noses.Wikipedia:VisualEditor &gt;&gt; Wikipedia, the free encyclopediaWelcome to the portal for the VisualEditor, a new way of editing Wikipedia being developed by the Wikimedia Foundation. Editing Wikipedia at the moment requires people to learnwikimarkup, a markup language, even to make tiny corrections to an article. In 2001, this was acceptable; in 2013, it'sdriving contributors away. The VisualEditor allows people to edit without having to learn wikimarkup, and will, we hope, help encourage people to contribute to Wikipedia.The full timetable for the VisualEditor launch can befound below— but by the end of July 2013, we expect this to be available to users on almost all Wikipedia projects.We know that there are many users whopreferediting the raw wikitext, finding it faster and more precise. Editing purely in wikitext will remain — we have absolutely no plans to remove it — so both editors will be accessible from the toolbar above each article, and you can select the traditional editor in your user preferences.Good news.Go Read: an open-source Google Reader clone &gt;&gt; Matt Jibson's BlogFeed readers are difficult.One of the biggest problems with the readers I tried over the last months was scalability. While on the front page of HN, they were slow and unusable. Many then ended up restricting their demo tier to something useless or took so long to import my feeds that I just forgot about them and never went back. I wanted to architect a reader whose scale would be limited only by how much I was willing to pay for servers. Newsblur's early tweets suggested that the database was the bottle neck - they could not simply add new machines because it was not designed to use them. I chose the go runtime of app engine and attempted to design the data structures in a way that allowed concurrency. Depending on the traffic I get, we will see if I succeeded.What's next for Agant &gt;&gt; AgantDave Addey, founder and chief exec of the British app company:Over the past few years, the App Store has become more and more competitive, and more and more risky with it. Agant's speciality has been high-quality, higher-value apps, often published in collaboration with our clients. Typically these are paid (rather than free or freemium) apps. Unfortunately, the iOS App Store's set-up just does not seem to support the discovery, trialling and long-term life of these kinds of high-value apps, making it difficult to justify the risk of their development. After much consideration, I've decided that I can no longer take this risk on Agant's behalf.I've also come to realise that business development is not my calling in life. I'm a maker, not a salesperson, and the challenge of bringing in enough work to keep a small team busy and profitable, in such a competitive and difficult app marketplace, is a very hard thing to do. Agant doesn't have VC funding – it's entirely owned and managed by myself – and so the risk of paying salaries and funding development is borne directly by myself. Sadly, this isn't something I can keep doing in the current app market.Is this a straw in the wind? If these sorts of apps can't be developed profitably, Apple has a problem. Addey has previously pointed out the problems with lack of trials in the App Store model; now that bird has come home to roost. He says that he will continue to support existing apps such as Train Times, though.HP aims to re-enter the global smartphone race &gt;&gt; Financial ExpressTechnology giant HP is looking at re-entering the smartphone race and is working on launching a new device, which will offer a "differentiated experience" to consumers.Without giving a timeline, HP Senior Director Consumer PC and Media Tablets Asia Pacific Yam Su Yin told PTI that the company is focusing on all segments including tablet PCs, notebook PCs as well as all-in-ones (AIOs).When asked if a smartphone is in the offing, she said: "The answer is yes but I cannot give a timetable. It would be silly if we say no. HP has to be in the game."If only there were a struggling smartphone company with a good reputation inside enterprises that HP could buy. Then again...Death of the salesmen: technology's threat to retail jobs &gt;&gt; The AtlanticDerek Thompson:retail employment is following a familiar path, one already beaten by farmers and factory workers. In 1900, more than 40% of the US workforce was in agriculture. Today, that number is about 2%. In 1950, about one-third of Americans worked in manufacturing. Today, about 10% do. This is what happens to industries that are bitten by the productivity bug. Jobs are plentiful, and employment climbs and climbs, and then something happens—somebody invents the tractor; somebody builds an assembly-line robot—and suddenly the trend line finds itself on the long side of the mountain.Retail still employs one in nine working Americans, and retail jobs have grown since the bottom of the Great Recession. But we might be witnessing the moment when it passes over the mountaintop. Between 1950 and 1990, retail employment grew more than 50% faster than the general workforce did. Since 1990, it's grown 50% slower. Retail now employs fewer people than it did in 1999. And those people work significantly fewer hours, too.Of course the article's title is a snappy play on the name of the play, but saleswomen are likely to be harder hit.Samsung slides equivalent of Sony as S4 sales disappoint &gt;&gt; BloombergManufacturers of high-end models in the $358bn mobile-phone industry are suffering as consumers hold off on buying expensive handsets that aren't considered innovative. Apple fell 9.4% in the month after releasing the iPhone 5 while China's Huawei Technologies and ZTE sold smartphones costing about $100, or about an eighth the price of the S4 in South Korea."Consumers find no good reason to buy the S4 since it has no big difference with its predecessor," said Oh Sang Woo, an analyst at Leading Investment &amp; Securities in Seoul. "Chinese companies are becoming a bigger threat to Samsung than any other players."The Galaxy S4 - with a 5in screen, 13-megapixel camera and motion-detecting software - is one of three high-end handsets being released by Samsung this year. The device is part of the company's plan to win customers from Apple, which was the top smartphone seller in the U.S. in the last quarter of 2012.Ben Thompson at Stratecheryforecast this at the end of April.Apple finds it difficult to divorce Samsung &gt;&gt; WSJ.comApple has signed a deal to get TSMC of Taiwan to make its CPU chips from 2014:Regarding the relationship with Samsung, Apple isn't the first to watch a happy tech matchup turn into a marriageó of inconvenience when competition flares. In the 1980s, early in the PC revolution, chip maker Intel agreed to share technology with Advanced Micro Devices. Later, AMD became a major rival, and Intel spent years trying to undo the agreement.Samsung has reason to keep the Apple relationship alive. Apple is still Samsung's biggest customer for components, and a complete retreat by Apple from Samsung would hurt Samsung's earnings, analysts say.Apple's component orders from Samsung were set to hit around $10bn last year, says Mark Newman, an analyst at Sanford Bernstein in Hong Kong. That represents a significant chunk of the 67.89 trillion won ($59.13bn) Samsung posted in sales from its component business, which includes chips and displays. The Apple processor, where Samsung is currently the sole supplier, accounted for $5bn of purchases in 2012, he estimates.The impression is more of how powerful Samsung is in the top-end components business than anything else. (May require subcription.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
Mark Pincus, founder of Zynga, the struggling online games company, is stepping down as chief executive officer, the company said on Monday.Pincus will be replaced by Don Mattrick, the current head of Microsoft's Xbox division. He will remain as chairman of the company and chief product officer. "Don is unique in the game business," Pincus said in a statement. "He can execute in multiple domains – hardware, software and network."The move comes amid a period of turmoil for Zynga, whose hit games include Words With Friends, Farmville and Draw Something. The company was one of the first social media companies to go public but its share price has collapsed as sales have slumped. Like many of it peers, Zynga has struggled as games have moved from desktops to mobile devices, where advertising rates are lower and harder to sell. Zynga recently announced it is closing offices in New York and other major cities and shedding 18% of its workforce.Zynga's shares soared 11% in anticipation of news that Pincus was stepping down from day-to-day running of the company. They closed the day at over $3, up 10.43%, but down from a high of $14.63 in March 2012 and well below the $10 they sold for when the company launched its initial public offering in December 2011.Clark Fredricksen, vice-president of analyst eMarketer said Zynga had some trouble recently acquiring and maintaining users, but the number of people in US who play games online, through their phones or on social networks, continues to grow.The number of people who play games on their phones is expected to grow 18.4% to 125.9 million in 2013, according to eMarketer, up from 106.3 million last year. Just over half of US mobile phone users will become active game users this year.In an email to staff, Mattick, who will start work on June 8, wrote: "More than 1 billion people have installed a Zynga game across web and mobile and popular franchises like Farmville, Running With Friends and Words With Friends are a daily habit for millions of people.  It's a staggering milestone that speaks to the mass market opportunity ahead of all of us."I joined Zynga because I believe that Mark's pioneering vision and mission to connect the world through games is just getting started. As Mark was recruiting me to come here, I was impressed by his creativity, drive and the clarity in which he sees the future of games and entertainment as a core consumer experience."
It is the first official hint that Apple has a new gadget in the pipeline: the notoriously secretive company has applied to register the iWatch name as a trademark.The anticipated wrist-computer –  which may be akin to a  television, so little firm information about it is available – will be Apple's first new product  of the post Steve Jobs era. Apple has filed for ownership of the "iWatch" trademark in Japan and, assuming it is a watch, it would be a further demonstration of Silicon Valley's growing interest in wearable computing.The field is a hot new frontier for technology firms, as shown by the considerable interest in the Google Glass project, where futuristic spectacles can trawl the internet or take pictures on the move.Speculation over the iWatch has gathered pace this year after Jobs's successor as chief executive, Tim Cook, described wearable products as "profoundly interesting." His rivals clearly feel the same way, with Google and Microsoft already developing watch-like products, setting the stage for a battle royal  already described as "the new platform war".Nitin Bhas, senior analyst at Juniper Research, said: "Apple has been hinting for some time that it has a big product in the works, this could be it." The speculation filling the void of Apple's studious silence is that the iWatch will link to other Apple devices, offering another way to access text messages or check email. Bhas added: "But that won't be enough. Apple won't offer something that just connects to your smartphone."Bhas predicts any wearable iWatch will offer a new way to pay for shopping, carry airline or concert tickets and will function like a wrist-worn digital wallet. It may also take on health-related wearables from companies including Nike, Fitbit and Jawbone.Apple reportedly has a team of 100 specialists looking at ways to take advantage of recent developments in hi-tech curved glass, cheaper sensors and better voice recognition software.Wearable technology is a small market, but research firm Juniper estimates that it will generate $800m (£500m) in revenue this year and $1.5bn in 2014 with interest form the big three tech firms likely to ramp up the commercial windfall.Apple has never felt the need to be first to market, relying on its ability to offer better designed, and pricier, takes on the latest technology. But that lead has been eroded in recent years and Apple needs a new hit to prove it is still a maker of must-have, innovative products.The company's share price hit an all time high of $700 last September but is now around $400, driven down in part by fears that its days as the world's most inventive technology business are over.Elsewhere, the iPhone's lead is being chipped away by Samsung, which uses Google's Android mobile operating system, while Amazon and Google are attacking iTunes. Apple is also a victim of rising expectations, coming under increased presure having launched no new device  since last October.The application for the iWatch trademark was made in Japan on 3 June, according to the Wall Street Journal, and made public on 27 June. Russia's Izvestia reported that Apple applied for the same trademark there in June. It does not appear to have registered the name in Europe, where an Italian company owns the trademark, but registering a trademark is usually an essential step made ahead of the launch of a product.The name of Apple's iPod was first discovered from trademark filings ahead of its launch in October 2001. The name iWatch has been trademarked several times in the US although Apple trampled over Cisco's "iPhone" trademark in 2007 when it launched its phone that January. The two companies later came to an agreement.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 29 June 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)The Last Of Us(18+)PS3 (100)32 (–)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition(7+)Xbox 360 (100)13 (2)Animal Crossing: New Leaf(3+)3DS (100)34 (3)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (31)VITA (4)Wii (3)405 (–)The Sims 3: Island Paradise (12+)PC (100)16 (–)Deadpool(18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (36)17 (4)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (47)PC (2)178 (6)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (38)PC (2)Wii U (1)329 (9)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (42)3510 (–)Company Of Heroes 2(18+)PC (100)111 (8)Injustice: Gods Among Us(16+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (40)Wii U (3)1112 (7)Far Cry 3(18+)PS3 (47)Xbox 360 (48)PC (4)3113 (12)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (33)PS3 (19)Wii (15)3DS (14)5114 (18)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)PS3 (46)Xbox 360 (41)VITA (10)Wii U (1)3115 (11)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)1416 (13)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Legendary(18+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (31)PC (21)417 (10)Grid 2(7+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (48)PC (2)518 (14)Dead Island: Riptide(18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (37)PC (1)1019 (–)Aliens: Colonial Marines(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (31)PC (5)720 (16)Grand Theft Auto IV(18+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (32)54UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Ouyaraised $8.6m on crowdfunding site Kickstarterto fund its Android-powered games console: a device that it hoped would provide an affordable alternative to Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo's big guns of the gaming world.Now it's available to buy as a console that's less about playing games like Call of Duty, FIFA and Halo, and more about taking the kind of quirky, independent games that have proliferated on smartphones and tablets and bringing them to the television.There's a market out there to be targeted. Mojang's Minecraft game has sold more than 22m copies across all platforms; Rovio's Angry Birds ended 2012 with 263m active players; and King's Candy Crush Saga has helped the publisher reach 70m daily players.Ouya's mission: to persuade a decent proportion of these people that they a.) want to play these kinds of games on their televisions, and b.) that they should buy a £99 console to do it. Does it stand a chance? Read on.Setup and hardwareOuya is a doddle to set up. Plug it into a power socket, connect it to your TV using the supplied HDMI cable, stick a pair of AA batteries (also supplied) in its controller, and turn it on. Once you've connected it to your Wi-Fi network and downloaded a brief software update, you're up and running.The hardware? It's small – a three-inch cube – and looks stylish, with its looks the work of industrial designer Yves Béhar, who's best known for his work on Jawbone's Jambox speakers. It sits neatly alongside your more-expensive under-TV gadgets.There's a USB port on the back, which can be expanded using a USB hub if you're planning to use several peripherals (a mouse and keyboard, for example). The console also uses standard screws, if you need to open it up for repairs or want to do so for hacking and upgrading.The controller? It needs work. Pairing it via Bluetooth with the Ouya is no problem, but its D-pad is too soft and its trackpad too sensitive. Its shoulder buttons, triggers and two analogue sticks are better, and the button-sticking issues reported on early developer units appear to have been solved, but it's still middling overall.Ouya's Discover store menuSystem and softwareOuya may be Android-powered, but you wouldn't know it from its menu system, which has been thoroughly reskinned. It's clean and clear, with the console's workings divided into four sub-menus: Play, Discover, Make and Manage.Make is for developers working to put their own games on Ouya, while Manage is the system settings. Play brings up a list of the games you've downloaded, sorted by how recently you played each, while Discover is Ouya's app store.The latter has some nice touches in the way it's organised, despite the initially-daunting rows of thumbnail-images and titles. One row includes "VIP" games exclusive to Ouya, another highlights trending (currently popular) games, and another directs you to specific genres.But there are also rows for games picked by individual curators – the Penny Arcade website and the developer of Ouya game Towerfall this week – as well as a "Sandbox" row to sample the latest releases.Ouya says it's ordering games within the Discover store's rows by how much they're played, rather than their total downloads. The aim is to ensure the best, most engaging games bubble up to the top.What's missing, for now, is an Xbox Live-style unified gaming network for Ouya: you sign in with a username, but there are no social features: high-score tables, achievements, the ability to find and challenge friends. Ouya says this is coming at a later date.Ouya isn't just for games. An "Apps" category includes other forms of digital entertainment, including radio service TuneIn and personal-media streamer Plex. As yet there's no sign of music videos service Vevo, which has been promised, or apps from the likes of Netflix and YouTube.There's a built-in web browser too, although I found it frustrating to use thanks partly to the sensitive trackpad. A few minutes wrestling with Facebook's website was useful mainly for remembering why I use the social network on phones, tablets and computers rather than televisions.Ice Rage on OuyaOuya gamesOuya launched with more than 150 games last week, the vast majority from independent developers, although Square Enix (with Final Fantasy III) and Sega (with some Sonic the Hedgehog games) are both supporting the platform.The quality of the games is variable, as you'd expect: a few killers but lots of filler. There's also a skew towards retro-style, pixel-arty RPG games, some of which are very good (Saturday Morning RPG and Deep Dungeons of Doom for example, as well as Final Fantasy III if you haven't played the original to death).There are also solid ports of indie hits (Super Crate Box, Puddle), a smattering of fun new titles (demo game A Bit of a Fist of Awesome and archery platformer Towerfall) and some action games hampered by a just-noticeable-enough lag between controller and on-screen action (Chronoblade and Shadowgun).Pick of the bunch for me was Ice Rage, a one-on-one ice hockey game with bags of character (and, indeed, characters) whose retro aspects are in its feel rather than its looks.A key part of Ouya's ethos is the demand that every game is free to play, at least initially. Most launch titles seem to have opted for a free demo, then a paid unlock for the full game – although there's scope for in-app purchases of virtual items, and even donation-based pay-what-you-want games.Payment works well: you register your credit or debit card when setting up Ouya, and the console then stores your payment details – sending you a receipt via email whenever you spend money.One improvement that could be made would be showing you what games will charge for and how much within their store listings – currently, you don't know until you click to pay within a game.Ouya's open nature brings a couple more possibilities for gaming. You can sideload Android APK files with a bit of fiddling in the Make and Manage menus – apps and games alike – although performance varies according to how well their controls map to a joypad (or not).This thread on the Ouya forumis a good place to start: Netflix is proving a popular sideload at launch, for example.Then there are the emulators. Ouya has plenty of emulators available to run game files (ROMs) from pretty much any well-known old console you can think of. Casual gamers may not want the bother of finding and sideloading games in this way, but experienced ROM-hunters, Ouya's emulation features may be the main reason to buy the console.You can swap Ouya's controller out for anotherThe verdictOuya as a concept – an open, hackable console sticking it to the established consoles – excited a lot of people on Kickstarter, but how good is it as a product?It's flawed, but not irretrievably so. The controller isn't great, and while I've seen some early reviews forgiving this on the grounds of Ouya's low price, note that official UK distributor Game sells a standalone Ouya controller for £39.99, and PS3 Sixaxis controllers for up to £10 less.Yet Ouya's openness means you can use other controllers with it – there are already instructions online for pairing a Sixaxis or Xbox 360 controller for example.Regular software updates will improve its store; a few more apps could turn it into a very handy set-top box; and doing something interesting with social gaming could be truly disruptive. Remember all those rumours about "the Facebook Phone"? What if Ouya could become "the Facebook console"?And the games… This is what's going to define Ouya as a success or a flop: whether it gets a good flow of high-quality games designed for the television screen, rather than merely (and hurriedly) ported from touchscreen devices.Well-ported games would be a start though. Looking at the Google Play charts, imagine Ouya with these games: Minecraft, Plants vs. Zombies, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, Cut the Rope, Temple Run 2, New Star Soccer, World of Goo, any or all of the Angry Birds games, The Room, Candy Crush Saga, Bejeweled Blitz, Jetpack Joyride, Doodle Jump and…I know, I know. The point is that all these games ARE available on Android smartphones and tablets already. What Ouya sees as an opportunity – a demand to bring back awesome indie games from touchscreens to televisions – may be its biggest challenge if that demand turns out to be weaker than expected.In 2013, tens (or even hundreds) of millions more people play games than did just a few years ago. But their play patterns are very different: their games go with them whether they're sitting on a train, on a smoking break at work, or curled up on the sofa playing while watching TV (or at least while someone else is watching TV).The hardcore Call of Duty crowd won't want an Ouya: why should they, when an Xbox 360 or PS3 can be had for under £150? That's not a problem: they're not the crowd Ouya needs to win over.Ouya did alienate some of its Kickstarter backers byfailing to deliver their units before its commercial release, as promised. The loss of goodwill is more than just a minor PR bump for the company: it needs more willing evangelists, not less.But the biggest question facing Ouya is whether the newer breed of gamers want a console that takes over the TV screen and whose games don't (yet) synchronise with what they're playing on their mobile devices.If not, it's toast. Or at least it needs to change.But there's still something powerful in the idea of an open, affordable console stocked by the most talented independent developers. Ouya is just first out of the blocks in the race to fully realise this potential.The coming months will see the launch of direct rivalsGamePop,GameStickandProject M.O.J.O.as well asNvidia's Project Shieldhandheld.Valve's Steam Boxis coming from the PC gaming space, whileGoogle is reportedly working on its own Android consoletoo.But Ouya's bold, brave launch is an important step along this path, with scope to improve over future software and hardware updates, if funds allow. It's far from the finished article, but also far from a flop.Note: This is a separate review of Ouya to the one that appeared in the Observer on 30 June, the online version of whichcan be found here.
About a year ago I bought 30 Bitcoins, the online peer-to-peer crypto-currency, for about £3 each using a European website calledBitstamp.net. Bitcoins appealed to my inner crypto-anarchist and I felt they had great potential. Unlike real money, they are decentralised and transactions are free; no bank in the middle taking their slice and nothing central to fail. Anyway, I forgot about them, and nine months on, in March this year, I saw some news about how their price was sky rocketing. I was amazed to find that my £100 investment was now worth over £2,000.This got me interested. I dived back into the crypto-coin world and started to learn everything I could about them. I discovered that there were now many other crypto-coins too such as Litecoins, a sister crypto-currency to Bitcoins, and I began trading them on the exchange BTC-E.com. I also read up on things like the exponential market average crossover trading system, an age-old technique used by stock brokers. Over the next couple of months, to my astonishment, I managed to double my money. I decided to cash out at that point, by converting all my funds into Bitcoins on BTC-E and transferring them back to Bitstamp, partly because I didn't quite believe it all. But sure enough the money arrived in my bank account a few days later.However, at heart I've always been a geek and what had really grabbed my interest by then was how new Bitcoins and Litecoins are created. To find new ones you have to "mine" them, which involves a computer doing huge numbers of difficult computations. The catch is that the more people are mining them, the harder it becomes to find new ones, so that the supply is limited. This means that they effectively have built-in deflation.So, about four weeks ago I took my £4,000 profit, added another £11,000 from my savings and set about buying and building Bitcoin and Litecoin mining hardware in my spare time. For Bitcoins, I invested in pre-orders of new, specialised mining hardware called ASICs. For Litecoin mining rigs, I bought lots of Graphics cards and built computers out of them in plastic crates. I also regarded this as a home R&amp;D project for my main business, Memset. We're a hosting/data centres company and I've been keen for us to experiment with GPU-based cloud computing so I was reassured that even if it came to nothing, I could likely find a use for what I learned.Along my journey I had discovered that there were virtual securities exchanges games where one could float a virtual stock or bond quoted in crypto-currencies, and this too intrigued me. I decided I was going to need some help, so rounded up a few more techies, two of whom I'd met on the bitcoin forums and another two who are work colleagues. They all agreed to help me out in their spare time in exchange for shares in my planned virtual company. Next, while on a scuba holiday between dives, I made a business model and plan for our new company, "CipherMine". After crunching the numbers, my model was forecasting that with an extra £25,000 investment, we could be making £20,000-£30,000 per month profit from mining by the end of the year. It looked like we had a virtual business with potential.By this point, I had also come to believe that Litecoins had greater potential for growth than Bitcoins, so I eschewed the Bitcoin exchanges and instead submitted CipherMine for flotation on Litecoin Global. We made our initial public offering on Monday last week. I think I probably got the IPO price a bit wrong since the 20,000 shares I listed sold out in a matter of hours. We raised a total of 15,667 Litecoins in exchange for 20% of CipherMine's shares; about £27,700 at current prices. We are in the process of investing that money into more mining hardware, but in the meantime, our share price has continued to rise. As I write this, under a week later, the shares are being actively traded at about 1.6 Litecoins each; double the IPO value.CipherMine's market capitalisation currently stands at roughly 150,000 Litecoins, or about £250,000, of which 64% was mine at IPO. Again, partly to proverbially pinch myself and make sure it was real, I have sold a little over 2% of my holdings from which I've made about £3,000. CipherMine still owes me quite a bit, but if all goes to plan, my original costs should have been covered by the dividends on my shares come October.I still don't quite believe it and there is a very real possibility that all the value could vanish in a puff of logic. However, I started this as a hobby and in many ways it still is. I've learned a lot and had fun along the way, so if that's all it comes to, I'll be content. I cannot help but be quietly optimistic though.Kate Craig-Wood is the managing director and co-founder ofMemset
Through a set of mysterious circumstances, a violent damaged man is forced to undertake the protection of a young girl with whom he eventually establishes a paternal bond. Much bloodshed ensues.Which game am I describing here: Naughty Dog's astonishingly well-realised 'zombie' horror adventure, The Last of Us, or Irrational's atmospheric science fiction shooter, Bioshock Infinite? The truth is, it could be either. The two most critically acclaimed titles of 2013 so far are about men protecting women amid the insanity of a dystopian society where violence has become the only valid currency. In Bioshock, enemies are driven by the madness of religious fervour, in The Last of Us, it is a parasitic contagion – both rob humanity of sense and perspective; both supply fodder to our questing hero.The fact that these two titles have emerged almost contemporaneously, alongside other highly masculinised post-apocalyptic fantasies such as The Walking Dead and State of Decay says some interesting things about where games are right now. And how, although narrative themes have progressed, the games industry is still heavily reliant on the old themes of power, authority and physical force.First of all, there's no coincidence in the sudden onslaught of dystopian fiction, which has affected movies and literature as well as games. We've seen these spikes before and they usually reflect and explore wider sociopolitical fears. The rush of '50s sci-fi flicks about mutated insects and invading aliens came out of post-war fears about the atom bomb and communist revolution; and the slasher films of the seventies processed the global economic downturn, the collapse of the patriarchal nuclear family and the rise of feminism's second wave. Our current obsession with zombies and failed utopias is arguably driven by the gristly meat of 24-hour news coverage: fears of pan-global diseases like avian flu, the over-population of the Earth, the financial collapse of 2008 and mass uprisings like the Arab Spring. Our sense of certainty has been decimated over the last five years – the world is once again a weird, unpredictable and violent place. Video games are reflecting this. But they are reflecting it through a very particular prism.It's no secret that game development is dominated by men, and that the demographic courted by the marketers of Triple A titles is young males. Surveys suggest that women make up around 10% of the workforce in most studios, anda report by research company EEDARin 2012 found that out of the 669 action and role-playing games studied, only 24 had exclusively female protagonists. The developers of Remember Me, a sci-fi adventure featuring a mixed-race female lead character, have claimed that the game was rejected by several publishers because the companies wanted a male lead.But then, Bioshock Infinite, The Last of Us and Telltale's Walking Dead all represent an interesting evolution of that standard, much-desired masculine protagonist. In the past, these characters tended to be assured action heroes; men fighting for a just cause against irredeemably evil enemies. But in current titles that is all getting muddied. Lee, Booker and Joel are damaged men, victims of the violence they have perpetrated on others. Lee has killed his wife's lover and ruined his own life in the process; Booker has been destroyed by his involvement in murderous military campaigns, Joel has had to become a sociopath to survive 20 years in a devastated America. These guys aren't heroes like Master Chief or Marcus Fenix; they're scarred, vulnerable fuck-ups, barely functioning as reasoning adults anymore.The characters can also be defined through their relationships. Some analysts have pointed out how the father/daughter bonds at the centre of these three games have revealed a maturing industry – once it was all about saving the hot love interest, now it's about being a good dad. A lot of studio heads are now in their forties, they have kids, and they want to explore this dynamic in their work. Neil Druckmann, the writer of The Last of Ushas spoken abouthow his own daughter inspired the central relationship in the game. That's beautiful and it really shines through in the scripting – that testy, edgy relationship between the two generations.But here's the problem - if that is the right word: it's all about men. In her landmark essay, Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema, the feminist film theorist Laura Mulvey, posited that mainstream cinema almost always adopts the viewpoint of a male protagonist – and through this phallocentric lens, female characters are invariably objectified and exploited. Mulvey's recourse to Freudian and Lacanian theory has been critiqued and questioned in the intervening 35 years, but we can certainly see her central thesis at play in video games – where often the spectator/gamer quite literally takes the viewpoint of the male lead through a first-person camera. And though we're given fleeting control over characters like Ellie and Clementine, they are mostly facilitators, reflecting the experiences and needs of the male lead. People who argue that The Last of Us is as much Ellie's story as Joel's might be correct in a pure narrative context, but in terms of identification and raw experience, we're with Joel all the way.This sense of female supporting characters being subsumed into male stories is of course, widespread. Last week, Laurie Penny wrotea great articleabout the Manic Pixie Dream Girl trope in independent movies and TV sitcoms, and how these characters are fantasy constructs to help the male lead progress. Ellie and Elizabeth are effectively the Manic Pixie Dream Girls of dystopian gaming; they exist as testing boards for their male counterparts – strong yet vulnerable, belligerent yet loyal – they're there to provide the beats in the hero's journey from sociopath to rounded adult male. Or you can read it another way and see The Last of Us and Bioshock Infinite as weird allegories on parenthood; the father/daughter relationship exaggerated into psychosis. The monsters at the door are the feral boyfriends coming to take daddy's little girl away; it is female puberty as the apocalypse of the happy family unit.But of course, in games, the hero never makes it, the girl can never help him escape violence, because in games, violence is often the core feedback loop, the defining mechanism. Everything gets swallowed up into this dysfunctional vortex. This is all fine; violent games are fun. And naturally, you don't have to think about them in this way.But what you do have to think about, if you want a more diverse selection of games in the next generation, is how all of these titles represent highly masculinised visions of the dystopian concept. Everything is about society crumbling into tribal warfare, anarchy and slaughter – only the most powerful can survive. Of course, the argument is that violence is authentic; that post-apocalyptic existence is likely to be nightmarishly predicated on thuggery. But then, well, how do we know that? And anyway, video games do not need to be bound by our sense of reality; game designers  have the freedom to present entirely different natural, cultural and social laws.Let's go back to the seventies and eighties for a second. While the makers of slasher movies seemed to view the second wave of feminism with fear and revulsion, there were was also a great surge in female authors embracing science fiction as a means of exploring and embracing feminist theories. Margaret Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale, Octavia Butler's The Parable of the Sower and Jean Hegland's Into the Forest, all present futures in which female characters transcend the chaos of the apocalypse, and in which the dystopian vision is more about rampant gender inequality and technological over-reliance rather than marauding zombies or cannibalistic hunter groups.Game designers could also look to the weird, transcendent Armageddons constructed by JG Ballard. In books like The Crystal World or the short story collection Vermillion Sands he envisages surreal new societies and beautiful, psychedelic threats to human existence. It's not the right-wing fantasy of armed militia groups protecting their wagon circles. When I interviewed Jen Zee the lead artist on Supergiant Games' brilliant RPG game, Bastion two years ago, she told me, "When I joined the team, Greg [Kasavin, creative director] told me that the story is post-apocalyptic, but that they also wanted to emphasise the fact that, in the face of destruction, there's often beauty as well. That resounded with me, because I've had my share of grey and brown apocalyptic games. I wanted to introduce rainbows into the post-apocalypse! The rich and colourful style was informed by that."The Last of Us, Bioshock: Infinite and The Walking Dead are all fascinating, brilliant games that do interesting things with the possibilities of interactive narrative storytelling – they present rich and detailed visions of wildly dystopian futures. But they all tell the same story of men coming to terms with violence and the responsibilities of fatherhood – and they all do it in such a way as to confirm the masculine status quo. Self-sacrifice in combat, ruthless violence, the sanguine acceptance that there is no other way.Naughty Dog's vision is the bravest, I feel, for reasons I can't outline without ruining the game – it certainly comments on the meaning of violence in a very daring way. But there is little challenge to the video game archetype of the apocalypse, the one we all learned from comics and horror movies and pulp sci-fi novels and half-remembered magazine scare stories: that the future will be ruled by men of violence and fervour, and that we have to become them in order to survive.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad apps posts).Mr Shingu's Paper Zoo (£1.99)Digital origami isn't, as yet, a wildly popular category on the App Store. Yet Mr Shingu's Paper Zoo deserves to become a big hit on iOS for the way its virtual paper animals may inspire children to make their own menageries in the real world. The app teaches kids how to make pandas, penguins and other animals by folding on-screen paper, then look after them in a virtual zoo. The digital play in this delightful app will inspire real-world creativity.iPhone / iPadDuckDuckGo Search &amp; Stories (Free)Anonymous search engineDuckDuckGo is on a post-Prism growth spurtat the moment. Now its official iOS app is aiming to be a haven for more users who are turning away from Google. The app offers similarly-anonymous search functions to the website, but also doubles as a news-reading app, serving up "the most shared stories from hand-crafted sources" in news, entertainment, sports, technology and other areas.iPhoneRockpack (Free)There's a blizzard of startups focusing on "video curation" right now, even though most smartphone owners are blissfully unaware that uncurated videos are a problem that needs solving. Rockpack is the latest app to enter the fray, and it looks pretty impressive. The idea: you create personal channels around subjects that you're interested in, then get feeds of videos that you may like. It's very slick, but the challenge now is to convince people they need it.iPhone / iPadTimeline WW1 with Dan Snow (Free)Developer Ballista Media's Timeline WW2 with Dan Snow app was an excellent introduction to the second world war –read this interviewfor more on the ambitions behind it – and now it's got a sequel. Or rather a prequel, given that the first world war is the subject this time. Historian and TV presenter Snow provides the research, with bags of vintage clips and photos. The free download covers the first two months of the war, with a £6.99 in-app purchase unlocking the rest.iPadJustin's World – Lettersounds (£1.49)CBeebies star Justin Fletcher's first app wasa retelling of Goldilocks and the Three Bears. This is his second App Store outing, with phonics the focus this time round. It covers the first eight letter sounds that children will learn at school, with simple and clear mini-games starring alliterative animals and items (pink pig, angry ant etc) to reinforce the learning. Plus video of Fletcher himself, who's as engaging a communicator on smartphone and tablet screens as on bigger TVs.iPhone / iPadWeathertron (£0.69)iPhone owners are spoiled for choice when it comes to innovative weather apps, with Yahoo and BBC joining the battle in recent months. Weathertron promises to present its weather forecast as a "live infographic of the entire day's weather", drawing on 16 sources to show the conditions you can expect. It covers more than 15k cities around the world, with a seven-day forecast complementing the detailed 24-hour data.iPhone / iPadDiner Dash Rush (Free)Diner Dash is one of the more popular casual games on iOS already, but with this new version publisher PlayFirst is aiming for a Bejeweled Blitz-style hit. The core game is still focused on waitress Flo trying to "seat, serve and satisfy" customers by tapping on their tables, but this time it's against the clock, with Facebook and Game Center-fuelled high-score tables, and in-app purchases to buy boosts to bump up your score.iPhone / iPadYoung Person's Guide to the Orchestra by Benjamin Britten (Free)There have been a few apps aiming to introduce classical music to children in the last year or so, with this being one of the more impressive examples. It's aimed at 7-11 year-olds, based on a new recording of Benjamin Britten's The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra. Mini-games and quizzes teach kids about instruments and musical terms, with a scrolling score to help them follow the music.iPadAnchor by Tomfoolery (Free)Styling itself as "the best way to share and connect with your colleagues", Anchor is a social networking / collaboration app for the workplace, putting it in a similar spot to services like Yammer. The idea being a way for group and one-to-one text chats, a people directory and the ability to organise users into teams by project or division, with an activity feed showing the latest updates.iPhoneWake Up With Disney (£0.69)Because really, why has it taken this long for someone to devise a way for your iPhone or iPad to wake up up with an angry Donald Duck? Don't answer that. Disney's latest app is starting with Donald, but will add more of its famous characters over time, providing an alarm clock with weather forecast, and the ability to poke and prod the character, Talking Tom Cat-style.iPhone / iPadSeenth.is (Free)There are lots of apps to help you discover new music, but what about keeping up with the artists you already like? That's what Seenth.is wants to help with: you sign up to follow specific artists, then it pulls their updates from services including Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, SoundCloud and Instagram into one place, so you don't miss a new track, backstage video or filtered sandwich pic.iPhoneUFO Files UK (£0.69)This is a great app for alien-spotters, produced as it is with the National Archives and pitched as a "chance to explore Britain's real-life 'X-Files'". It serves up all the (public) Ministry of Defence records on reported UFO sightings – more than 5,000 in all – plotted on a map. More than 400 pages from the actual UFO Files have been scanned in for digital reproduction here, too.iPhone / iPadMath Elements (£2.49)There's a big demand for educational-but-entertaining maths apps for children at the moment, with Math Elements appealing even without the missing 's'. Already winning awards in its native Finland, it's aimed at 4-8 year-olds, teaching them core-curriculum maths skills over 100 levels, with the twist being that they learn by teaching a cartoon mouse character.iPadLayton Brothers Mystery Room (Free)A few weeks ago, iOS got a new version of the Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney franchise. Now another series made famous on Nintendo's DS handhelds has popped up on the App Store: Professor Layton. This spin-off features the son of Professor Layton solving criminal puzzles, helping Scotland Yard by collecting objects and grilling suspects. The prologue and two cases are included for free, with more three-case packs buyable via in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadMagic 2014 (Free)Trading card game Magic: The Gathering continues to have a large and devoted fanbase. They'll be the people excited about this new digital version, updated for 2014 with new cards, opponents and campaign levels to test your skills. As a free download, the game comes with three decks with five unlockable cards each, but more decks, cards and content can be bought via in-app purchase.iPadQ Official Glastonbury Review 2013 (Free)The Glastonbury Festival is over for another year, so now it's time to pick over the winners and losers of the show, critically speaking. Music mag Q is releasing an "official souvenir magazine" for the festival with reviews, photos and interviews from Glastonbury 2013. The actual 72-page digital mag costs £2.99 as an in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadWibbitz (Free)More curated video in this app, which is getting some people in Silicon Valley in a lather. Its USP: "Wibbitz creates beautiful video summaries out of text articles," drawing on a range of sources to analyse their text and offer them up as snackable videos, images and infographics.iPhoneColin McRae Rally (£2.99)Rally star Colin McRae may have died in 2007, but his name lives on in this new iOS racing game – a spin-off from Codemasters' famous console franchise. It sees you speeding through 30 stages with real cars, and a mixture of skiddy surfaces.iPhone / iPadmem:o (£1.49)This looks fab: a productivity / time management app based on "bright colours, simple shapes, bold typography and playful interactions", which looks a lot different from the average calendar app. This may mean it appeals to a niche of iPad users, but it's more than just a looker: tags, colours and themed boards offer an interesting spin on organising your weeks.iPadEarly Ears (£0.69)Hearing difficulties among young children aren't always permanent, but they are a source of worry for parents – and a possible problem for speech and language development. Early Ears is aimed at parents of 2-8 year-olds as a way to run a standard audiology test to detect if there's cause for concern – as a way to decide whether you should seek a professional diagnosis, note, not a replacement for that. It's the work of Aston University.iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Apple has filed for ownership of the "iWatch" trademark in Japan, suggesting that the company could be preparing either to introduce a wearable technology or a product relating to the TV business.The Wall Street Journalreportsthat the application was made there on 3 June, and made public on 27 June.Izvestiareportedthat it applied for the same trademark in Russia in June. However, it does not appear to have registered the name in Europe, where an Italian company owns the trademark.Registering a trademark is usually an essential step made ahead of the launch of a product in order to prevent rivals from registering the same name and creating an embarrassing and costly legal clash. The name of Apple's iPod was first discovered from trademark filings ahead of its launch in October 2001 – though it trampled over Cisco's "iPhone" trademark in 2007 when it launched its phone that January. The two companies later came to an agreement.There have been rising expectations – after a growing hiatus since October, during which it has not released any new devices – that Apple will introduce either a watch-style device or some form of TV-compatible device.The idea of an iWatch that would offer a wearable system able to connect to a smartphone has raised interest, with a number of media outlets saying the company has a huge team of engineers working on such a product.Wearable technology such as Google Glass, now in beta testing with thousands of "explorers" in the US, and Pebble's Bluetooth-connected watch, has become a hot new item. Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, didn't rule out the idea of such a product when he appeared at the AllThingsD conference earlier this year.Alternatively, the "watch" element of the name could relate to a TV-related product. Analysts have expected Apple to make a move in the television space, but with margins on sets very thin and replacement cycles low – at about 10% per year – have been unable to think of what it might do. Benedict Evans of Enders Analysis has suggested that Apple could introduce an HDMI-powered dongle with the ability to use TV signals. But the company has given no indication of its intentions, and there has been no industry chatter from TV content providers that would indicate a product was on the way.So far there is no record of a similar iWatch trademark filing from Apple in Europe. An EC trademark database search on iWatchturns up three results, with the ownership being held by Probendi of Italy and filed in 2008. The other two applications were made after Probendi's, and were either opposed or withdrawn.Probendi's iWatch application is a mobile-phone application which sends real-time information to an emergency support system.
Google faces a day of reckoning with the European Commission, after a coalition of competitors roundly rejected its proposals to change the presentation of search results to Europeans in the face of monopoly complaints.Joaquin Almunia, the EC's antitrust commissioner, must now decide whether to accept Google's suggestions, seek new concessions, or instead move to a "statement of objections" leading to legal enforcement on the search giant. If Google didn't comply, it could be fined up to 10% of the company's global revenues.Almunia hinted a month ago that Google would have to revise its offering, followinginitial angry reaction from rivals. Last Thursday he said in a speech in Madrid that "there is a tougher way to handle it" if negotiations fall short.He also hinted that if a deal is feasible, "it will probably be reached by the end of the year." It would also be the first time anywhere in the world that Google has been obliged to change its search presentation over monopoly concerns. A deal would be binding for at least five years.But competitors who have studied the proposals in depth over the past two months are scathing. "It would be better to do nothing than to accept Google's proposals," said Thomas Vinje of FairSearch, a group of 17 companies including Microsoft and TripAdvisor. "The proposals would make things worse rather than better."Instead, they say, the past two months have shown that Google's proposed labelling – which would distinguish its own offerings from rivals' content – actually favours the US company."This will be a counterproductive measure, it will institutionalise the search bias," said Moritz von Merveldt, head of antitrust matters at German media company ProSiebenSat.1 Group. "Users often will be directed away from competitors' offers."Merveldt said that a test suggested his company would lose 20% of its web traffic, and concomitant advertising, if Google's labelling were implemented on weather searches. Others have similar concerns, and say that Google should have to surmount the same hurdles as they do in competition for search placing."As a minimum requirement, Google must hold all services, including its own, to exactly the same standards, using exactly the same crawling, indexing, ranking, display and penalty algorithms," said Helmut Heinen, the president of the federation of German newspaper publishers BDZV.The EC has been investigating Google since 2010, following accusations made by members of Fairsearch that it is abusing its dominant market position in Europe – where it has about 90% of the desktop search market – to promote other properties it owns, such as YouTube, Maps, Google Shopping and others.UK vertical search firm Foundem complained to the EC in 2010 that Google was unfairly demoting its results in search listings, while boosting its own products for the same search. In January, it emerged that it issuing Google for lost revenuesover "anti-competitive conduct".In 2012, Almunia published a list of objections to Google's existing search layout and other behaviour, including "scraping" content from third-party sites for reuse in search results. Almunia published Google's set of remedies at the end of April 2013, and then sent them for "market testing" with complainants to see if they would agree to it.But their reaction was almost immediate. Vimte complained that Google's suggestions "would simply allow [it] to continue prominently to display its own related services in the prime real estate of the page." Competing sites' links would appear "in a manner that it designed to dissuade users from clicking on them."At the heart of the row is the question of whether Google artificially pushes results for its own properties, such as Google Shopping or Maps, higher up the results than they should "naturally" appear. The company chairman Eric Schmidtargued in the US in 2011that Google's incorporation of its maps and video results was part of "universal search" and that the elements could not be considered separately – though Foundem wasdisparagingof the claim. Yet aninvestigation by the US Federal Trade Commission into Google's positionin the US market concluded in January that its search presentation did not harm consumer choice.Google referred to a statement the company posted on its blog on Monday by Google executive Kent Walker. "Our proposals are meaningful and comprehensive, providing additional choice and information while also leaving room for future innovation," he wrote. "We think we did a pretty good job."
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android apps posts).YouView (Free)British digital TV service YouView took its time in launching, but for those people who do have it in their homes, there's now an official companion app for Android. You don't watch shows on it, though. Instead, it's a TV guide app showing seven days of listings, and the ability to set the YouView set-top box to record shows remotely.DuckDuckGo Search &amp; Stories (Free)Anonymous search engineDuckDuckGo is on a post-Prism growth spurtat the moment. Now its official Android app is aiming to be a haven for more users who are turning away from Google. The app offers similarly-anonymous search functions to the website, but also doubles as a news-reading app, serving up "the most shared stories from hand-crafted sources" in news, entertainment, sports, technology and other areas.Hundreds (£1.99)Circular puzzle game Hundreds was a critically-acclaimed hit on iOS, but now it's on Android too. The game sees you tapping on circles in each level to make them (and the numbers inside them) bigger – adding at least 100 points overall without them touching. Which sounds slightly tortuous written down, but the game's genius is its stripped-down simplicity, wedded to stylish visuals and fearsome addictiveness-factor.Might &amp; Magic Clash of Heroes (£2.99)This game may come from a well-established RPG game franchise, but its Clash of Heroes incarnation is a more modern beast: a puzzle-RPG. That means you'll be battling monsters and looting dungeons, but with the battles built around match-three puzzling. Publisher Ubisoft promises more than 20 hours in its campaign mode, plus multiplayer modes to challenge friends.Jay Z Magna Carta (Free)Excited about the new Jay-Z album Magna Carta Holy Grail? Join the club. And in a sponsorship deal that's been making waves in the music world, he's giving the first million copies away as free downloads to owners of Samsung Galaxy devices (the S4, S3 and Note II to be specific). You'll need to download the official app smartish before the album goes live on 4 July, three days before its official release.Magic 2014 (Free)Trading card game Magic: The Gathering continues to have a large and devoted fanbase. They'll be the people excited about this new digital version, updated for 2014 with new cards, opponents and campaign levels to test your skills. As a free download, the game comes with three decks with five unlockable cards each, but more decks, cards and content can be bought via in-app purchase.Imgur (Free)Cats! And other things too, but particularly cats. As an image-sharing website, Imgur prides itself on being able to spot memes as they go viral. Now it's bringing that to Android devices, enabling you to browse popular pics, vote and comment on them, and upload new images from your smartphone.The Silent Age (Free)"It's 1972. Love is free. Flipflops, English leather and bandanas are the height of fashion..." The Silent Age is a critically-acclaimed point'n'tap adventure that sees the hero time-travelling from the early 70s into the future to save humanity. It was a hugely atmospheric game on iOS, and that looks to have translated well to Android.Boomerang: Email App for Gmail (Free)iPhone owners are well stocked for email apps trying to bring order to the average Gmail inbox. Now Android has its own equivalent with Boomerang, which offers features like "snoozing" emails for later, switching between multiple accounts, scheduling emails to send later, and full support for Gmail's labels and folders. Its developer says it's working on support for Exchange/Outlook and Yahoo among other Gmail rivals.Mark Wright's Wrighty's (Free)TOWIE? Pfft. I remember Mark Wright when he was playing football for my local team Bishop's Stortford. Nowadays, of course, he's a telly celebrity, now with his own app. It's part social network and part dating app, from the company behind Flirtomatic. "Get to know Mark and his fans personally by chatting and sharing vids, pics &amp; shout outs," as the Google Play listing puts it. "Win prizes, including the chance to meet Mark in person..."Redline Rush (Free)Street-racing games with shiny red cars leaving cops in their wake are enduringly popular across gaming platforms. Crescent Moon Games' Redline Rush is an accessible example, with suitably shiny cars, suitably crashy crashes and friend challenges to settle bragging rights.The New Machine EP (Free)British band The Nyco Project are behind this music app, which includes three of their songs "deconstructed into their component parts" as video clips. Your job is to turn individual parts on and off to create your own versions of the songs.Samurai Shodown II (£5.99)Swords! There are lots of swords in Samurai Shodown II – enough to put the average Game of Thrones episode to shame. SNK Playmore's venerable action game makes it to Android with 15 swordsmen, new moves and faithfully-ported graphics from its original Neo Geo version.Lulu in the Amazon (£2.56)Something for children now, without a sword in sight. It's a storybook-app based on a journey up the Amazon river, meeting animals and collecting souvenirs along the way. Five mini-games and 20 pages of story provide plenty for kids to enjoy.Batman: Arkham City Lockdown (£3.83)It's been out since December 2011 on iOS, but Warner Bros has finally gotten around to launching its last Batman movie game for Android. Tweaked for tablets, it's an Infinity Blade-style brawler, with Batman facing off against The Joker, Two-Face and other villains.Bombcats: Special Edition (£1.99)Colourful action game Bombcats is a rarity: freemium on iOS but a paid game on Android – often it's the other way round. It offers 194 level of exploding-cat jumping, rescuing kittens and mastering the abilities of the seven individual bombcat characters.MusicDroid (Free)This looks interesting: a puzzle game for children that wants to help them develop their programming skills. Each level involves turning on some golden music plates by moving a droid around the screen. "To move your Droid you need to build a Main Function across the screen using instructions and then call it by running the Main();" as the Google Play listing explains.Garfield's Wild Ride (£0.69)"The world's first ever side-scrolling runner powered entirely by lasagne," according to publisher Namco Bandai. It's probably on safe ground with that claim for this official Garfield game, although the "just touch the screen to take off and release to descend" is more akin to Tiny Wings.Pippi's Jigsaw Puzzle (£1.48)One more Android app for kids this week, and it stars a familiar face: Scandinavian character Pippi Longstocking. It's a jigsaw-puzzle app, with children piecing together six digital puzzles with a choice of difficulty levels to suit different ages.Brave Heroes (Free)Finally, the latest Android game from Korean publisher Com2uS, which knows a thing or two about RPGs. Here, you're fighting battles, choosing a hero from more than 30 characters and classes, then honing their skills to support your preferred fighting style.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Finland's Nokiasaysit will buy out Siemens' 50% stake to take complete ownership of Nokia Siemens Networks, the joint venture which sells telecommunications equipment to mobile phone carriers in a €1.7bn (£1.45bn) deal.The move will make Nokia a major player in supplying the infrastructure for mobile networks, with the NSN division becoming the largest inside Nokia – its revenues are roughly twice that of its handset business. The company had previous been seeking a buyer for its 50% stake – making the decision to buy out Siemens a surprise.The transaction will be completed during the third quarter of the year, the company announced. The move is a surprise, as Nokia had appeared to be seeking a buyer for the division for more than a year after suffering operating losses in five of the past nine financial quarters. It has made operating profits for the past three quarters, and generates almost exactly as much revenue as its handset business. Nokia's latest financial quarter ended and it will report the results on 18 July.Nokia's chief executive Stephen Elop said that the network operations arms had strengthened its financial performance and that progress in high-speed connections – principally LTE connections now being rolled out by network operators – is "an attractive growth opportunity". He said NSN had achieved a "clear leadership position" in providing the technology to network operators.NSN has been challenged by the growth of rivals such as China's Huawei, which in 2012 overtook Ericsson as the largest telecommunications supplier in the world, and overtook NSN in revenues at the end of 2011.But NSN seems to see potential in the LTE equipment supply business. Huawei has also seen itself shut out of a number of national markets, including the US and Australia, because of security fears relating to the Chinese ownership of the company and the essential role of telecoms for national security and communications.Nokia's once-dominant handset business is coming under growing pressure from rivals such as Samsung and Chinese "white box" makers selling cheap Android handsets, and it has not so far achieved a substantial share in the more valuable smartphone business.The Wall Street Journal reported in June that Microsoft had considered buying the company for its handset business – which might have coincided with the attempts to sell the network division – but that the US software giant had dropped the idea. The purchase of the rest of NSN would therefore bolster the company's broader portfolio and give it resilience against dips in the handset business.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Microsoft returns to Tokyo Game Show | EurogamerIt looks like Microsoft will be exhibiting the Xbox One at this year's Tokyo Game Show – obviously hoping to improve on its PR track record so far:The Japanese market will be keen to hear what Microsoft has to say given the Xbox One is still without a Japanese release window. "Microsoft does plan to launch Xbox One, the ultimate new-generation all-in-one entertainment system, in Japan," Microsoft told Eurogamer last month. "We look forward to confirming timing and other details at a later stage."It's no secret that Xbox has struggled in Japan since the console launched there in February 2002. A paltry 1.6 million Xbox 360 units have been sold in the country, compared to 12.6 million Wii units and 9.3 million PlayStation 3 units.What could possibly go wrong?The Division: New multiplayer details, drop-in co-op explained | CVG UKUbisoft intrigued a lot of people with the announcement of its co-op strategy role-player The Division at E3 – but it also confused us too. So the company is explaining a bit more:Senior community developer Antoine Emond has moved to clarify the game's always-online co-op and PvP mechanics in a recent community Q&amp;A."The Division is an online, open world RPG experience where exploration, objectives and player progression are all essential," he said."You can team up with a group of friends in co-op and jump in and jump out at any time. In certain areas, you can also seamlessly engage in PvP and experience suspenseful scenarios where danger can come from anywhere and anyone."This sort of emergent gang-based action is probably going to become more common on next-gen machines with all that cloud support.MoMA adds Magnavox Odyssey and six classics to game design exhibit | PolygonMoma has added to its games collection, which it launched last year, attracting chagrin from art critics, like the Guardian's own Jonathan Jones.Games are not art, he admonished, with some fairly rueful arguments about creative ownership. I offered analternate view, which also pointed out that the games section is in Moma's design department, not in its fine art gallery.Anyway:Additional to the 14 games that comprised the original collection, the Museum has added the 1972 games console Magnavox Odyssey as well as Pong, Space Invaders, Asteroids, Tempest, Yar's Revenge and the more modern Minecraft."Ralph Baer's Magnavox Odyssey is a masterpiece of engineering and industrial design," wrote MoMA's Paul Galloway, on the museum's website. "It's hard to overstate the importance of his place in the birth of the industry."You should definitely also watch this TED talk by the curator Paola Antonelli who explains the reasoning behind the collection.And she quotes my article!Patrice Desilets: "We can be pioneers" | GamesIndustry InternationalThe ex-Ubisoft designer and co-creator of Assassin's Creed talks to Gamesindustry.biz about his vision for the future of game design. Specifically, he discuss how, as the medium matures, it will be necessary for the creators of action adventure games to break away from the current focus on violence as an interactive staple:I said in my presentation that I'm part of the problem. I did the same games for 15 years. I did games about a character that jumps around with a sword. So it's my fault, but we're all getting a bit older, and it's time to try something else. The reason we're now thinking about it is that, technologically, we see we can do something more.Interesting stuff.New Miner Willy game releases after 28 years | VG247Willy's Great Adventure: ZX Spectrum was created in 1985 by Terry Lloyd, apparently as an homage to Smith's Manic Miner and Jet Set Willy.The game was never published, but in July last year Lloyd offered it to Elite Systems, which is currently working with Smith on an unrelated Miner Willy project."I can confirm it has never seen the light of day. Unless someone stole it off my computer and put it out there without me knowing," Lloyd said.These paragraphs are pretty much gaming nectar to Spectrum fanatics: two new Minor Willy games on the way – one, a long lost tribute and another by Smith himself!Death By A Dozen Flailing Stabs: Silhouette | Rock, Paper, ShotgunHad to include this story, which is about Alec Meer of Rock Paper Shotgun repeatedly slaughtering me in the excellent psycho slasher sim,Silhouetteduring the Rezzed event:A personal highlight of Rezzed for me was when I trapped The Guardian's Keith Stuart in a corner and repeatedly stabbed him with a sharpened blade. He tried helplessly to run between each swipe, staggering dazedly away, but I relentlessly pursued, moving faster, unfaltering, utterly determined to fulfil the demands of my dark passenger. "That's for working for a lily-livered pinko scum leftwing weasel rag!" I exclaimed, as I plunged the knife into his spine.And so on...You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamA week after Instagram's video launch, Vine sharing tanks on Twitter &gt;&gt; MarketingLandIt's now been a full week since Instagram added video recording to its popular camera app, and it's already had a dramatic impact on its main competitor:Vine sharing on Twitter has tanked.Vine's problem is twofold - it's slow to load, and it's not embedded into the Twitter app (yet), whereas Instagram introduced video with an app update.BlackBerry PlayBook will not be upgraded to BlackBerry 10 &gt;&gt; The VergeReneging on a promise made in January, BlackBerry has just announced that it will not, in fact, be upgrading the BlackBerry PlayBook tablet to its latest mobile OS, BlackBerry 10. CEO Thorsten Heins revealed the sour news on the company's investor call relating to today's earnings report, though he didn't delve into the specifics of why the company's plans have changed. The only justification offered by Heins is that BlackBerry was unable to get performance up to a satisfactory level, and the company now intends to focus on core products instead.BlackBerry has shipped a total of 2.5m PlayBooks since they were introduced in April 2011. Heins has also said that he doesn't see a business model - or eventually need - for tablets as such.(Re)building a simplified Firefox logo &gt;&gt; Reticulating SplinesSean Martell:Today we are excited to announce a visual evolution of our Firefox brand that will better fit its extended usage beyond that of a desktop web browser.Can one say that it's flatter?UK's BSkyB wins case against Microsoft over use of "SkyDrive" name in Europe; may have to drop name or pay fines &gt;&gt; TechCrunchIngrid Lunden:Microsoft went big on pushing cloud services this week at its Build conference, but today it was dealt a blow for how it might get to market them in Europe. BSkyB, the pay-TV broadcaster partly owned by News Corp., won ajudgement in the England and Wales High Courtagainst the US software giant for infringing the "Sky" trademark.The next step is another hearing in which the presiding judge, Justice Sarah Asplin, will hear arguments for an appeal from Microsoft, as well as decide on what remedies may be applied. Those remedies in past trademark cases have typically included financial compensation, an order to abandon usage of a name, and sometimes both.Seems a bit hard that "Skydrive" is held to infringe the "Sky" mark. Google had a similar problem with the "Gmail" trademark in Europe; eventually it bought it. Not likely to happen with Sky, though.NSA slides explain the PRISM data-collection program &gt;&gt; The Washington PostReturning to this point - and perhaps stirring it up again:The FBI uses government equipment on private company property to retrieve matching information from a participating company, such as Microsoft or Yahoo and pass it without further review to the NSA.Government equipment on private company property? Wonder what the Group Of Nine (Microsoft, Yahoo, Google, Apple, PalTalk, YouTube, Skype, AOL, Facebook) will say to that.Is the handset market entering another black summer? &gt;&gt; ForbesTero Kuittinen:European retail sales have drifted into a terrible slump in recent months – and this region still drives more than 20% of high-end smartphone sales globally. We know that European phone sales were already exceptionally weak during 1Q 2013, before the spring softness set in. Apple's tired iPhone 5 is struggling to retain consumer interest; the second global giant franchise, Samsung Galaxy series, is now suspected of hitting a rough patch as well. Are we facing another Black Summer in the handset market, akin to 2001 and 2008? In both of those years, phone demand suddenly weakened during summer months, leaving phone vendors struggling with inventory during the autumn. In both cases, component vendors got slammed harshly by investors panicking about the long-term margin outlook.Much may be riding on when Apple debuts new phones and how appealing they are. Right now, the sizzle seems to have gone out of the phone market.Who will stop Google? &gt;&gt; Salon.comRebecca Solnit, in an article which is actually pointing to the way that San Francisco is gradually pricing the middle class out of everything due to the super-concentration of wealth caused by the technology industry:Here's what San Francisco is now: a front row seat on the most powerful corporations on Earth and the people who run them. So we know what you may not yet: they are not your friends and their vision is not your vision, but your data is their data, and your communications are in their hands, and they seem to be rising to become an arm of or a part-owner of the government or a law unto themselves, and no one has yet figured out what we can do about it.(It's not really about Google. Or more precisely, not only about Google.)Google sues IRS for $83.5m tax refund &gt;&gt; BloombergGoogle, owner of the most popular Internet search engine, sued the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for an $83.5m refund, claiming it was improperly denied a deduction for a 2004 stock transaction with America Online.The IRS erred in disallowing a $238.6m deduction claimed for the difference between the price AOL paid to exercise a warrant for Google stock and the value of the shares, according to the complaint in US Tax Court.Lumia and BB10 &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansIn the wake of BlackBerry's results on Friday:Interesting to compare the replacement of the legacy platforms with the 'future saviour' platforms at RIM and Nokia. Neither is going terribly well.Of course, the underlying problem is that though both platforms are perfectly OK (though with their flaws), they're radically sub-scale. iOS now has about 400m active devices (iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch, though obviously with overlapping users) and Android over 800m, plus China. Lumia and BB10 combined have sold a little over 23m units in the last 18 months.  As a developer, why would you target these?Developers? Developers?Developers?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Monday! Was anyone at Glastonbury?! I finished Last of Us!
At the Wembley Conference Centre in the summer of 1977,James Martinwas the first of two charismatic speakers – the other wasProfessor Maurice Wilkes– at an all-day "systems institute" (organised by myself) for IBM systems engineers from across Britain. At one point, using a magic marker to annotate an overhead foil directly on to the projector, Martin stopped, stood erect and announced, "I've written on the glass!" Rooted to my seat in a back row, I was paralysed, but my colleague Ken Nichol, seated in the front row, came to the rescue, fetching a wipe from off-stage, and cleaning the glass. Martin resumed where he had left off.
I had the great fortune to be technical director atJames Martin's company James Martin Associates (JMA) for over a decade and responsible for the development of information engineering.Jim's special genius was to be able to look out over the whole field of information technology and show how all the strands of new development fitted together. This synthesis provided important strategic insights to many major corporations who vied for his time on an individual consulting basis. Although he was a quiet jazz-lover he well understood his value to business and back in 1982 when we set up JMA, he charged an astonishing $30,000 a day for personal advice. When asked how he had come up with such a fee, he said he aimed to match Henry Kissinger, then still at the height of his political influence. No business ever questioned the value Jim provided; no one since has achieved his status within the industry; his was a remarkable presence.
Price from £18,970MPG up to 64.2mpgTop speed 116mph"I am not going to lie, that dashboard ispeng!" Zooey, a&nbsp;charismatic 18-year-old with a&nbsp;passion for fashion, is sitting next to me in Mini's newPaceman. Zooey knows more about exfoliators than exhausts, but he has a&nbsp;point: the dash, with its outsize central dial and rack of chrome-tipped toggle switches, is undeniably sexy.It's the day after my daughter Libby's last A-level and I'm giving a&nbsp;bunch of her friends a lift to a party. After all the exam pressure, their summer stretches ahead in a haze of possibilities, and the atmosphere in the car is fizzing. Maisie yells from the back: "It's like a nightclub in here!" Her eyes have been caught by the changing mood lights buried in the door lining as they glow purple, blue, green, red and yellow. All this yelling is infectious. "Can I come to the party, too?" I&nbsp;shout at Libby. Terrified, she points out that it's not aparty, "just drinks" – such are the gradations of the modern teenager's social life.Either way, the Mini, with its party vibe, has got the night off to a great start. And Mini has played a blinder by creating a vehicle that appeals to this design-conscious, youthful market. The all-new Paceman, which is about as far removed from the original Mini as Andy Murray's forehand is from Boris Johnson's, is the seventh member of the Mini family, following in the tracks of the Hatch, Clubman, Convertible, Countryman, Coupé and Roadster. In some ways it's the most eyecatching – it's certainly the biggest. From the side it looks like a stretched coupé, with long doors sitting under blacked-out pillars to create a "floating" roof. Picked out in&nbsp;capitals across its broad rump is the word Paceman – it's the only Mini to be tagged by a rear nameplate; equally it's the only Mini you might not be able to identify.The distinctive cockpit of the Mini Paceman. Photograph: ObserverIt's a big car – a maxi Mini – and inside there is plenty of space. It has been styled around a "lounge" concept. And with its captain chairs, chrome details and numerous cubbies, it does feel as if its taken its design cues from Cunard.Drivewise, the Paceman still boasts Mini's trademark go-kart handling, and that feeling is enhanced if you go for the all-wheel drive option and the lowered sports suspension. There's a&nbsp;choice of four powerful four-cylinder engines, two petrol and two diesel. All come with a purposeful six-speed gearbox: manual is standard, but there is an automatic with Steptronic flip shifters – a&nbsp;pointless waste of your money. I'm not sure how big a car can get before it stops feeling "go-karty". This one is on the verge of looking like a man wearing boys' shorts.Some cars make you feel grown up – this one makes you feel young… or it should do. With its emphasis on youth, the Paceman merely reminded me that I amnotyoung any more. Sitting at the lights with its silver-rimmed lights, floating roof and "white glove" wing mirrors, I felt a bit mutton as lamb and slightly ridiculous. That feeling was confirmed later when I received a&nbsp;text from a friend: "Saw you stalled outside the library in a new Mini – looking like a twat!" I wasn't stalled – it was the car's stop/start fuel-saving function, but still.Mini has got it all right, except for one thing – the price. The car appeals to the people who can't afford it and not to those who can…Va Va FroomeChoose your colours: get into the Tour spirit. Photograph: ObserverWith the Tour de France now underway, you may want to get your cycling wardrobe up to speed. T-shirts start at £19.99 fromEvans cycles. But if you are feeling more ambitious you could go for the Yellow jersey or the King of the Mountains...Heading for Silverstone today?INRIX, the international provider of traffic information and driver services, has pulled together some "insights" into how to avoid congestion around the Silverstone area this weekend. It just might get you to the race on time. INRIX analysed recent traffic patterns around Silverstone including traffic conditions from last year's event to help race fans get to the track in time for the big race.  Unlike the field at Silverstone who will be driving at speeds of up to 200mph, frustrated spectators could find themselves stuck in traffic on the way to the track crawling along at a fraction of the pace. So how to beat the rush? For the quickest journey you should avoid travelling between 9am and 11am if you can help it. Drivers on the A43 leading into the circuit from the M1 J15a at Rothersthorpe will experience the worst delays. If you are coming from the east or northern parts of London, cut across town or take the M25 to join the M40. This information is available on the new INRIX traffic app, available for free on IOS and Android platforms today. The app analyses data from millions of vehicles travelling on our roads every day to provide real-time traffic maps showing the best routes, recommended departure times and expected arrival times. The app will also alert drivers to accidents and other delays as well as the ability to share one's arrival times with any contact in their address book by making just a few taps on their smartphone.A capital grand prix?With the British Grand Prix coming up,XCARpresenters took a Caterham Supersports round the proposed London Grand Prix circuit in the dead of night to see how it would feel to race the streets of London. Eat your heart out Monte Carlo!Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
A tie-in with the Lions tour of course,RC2is an enjoyable effort but one that suffers from feeling more like a patch for the originalRugby Challengefrom 2011, rather than a new game with 18 months of development work behind it.There are some nice new features, the breakdowns have been improved and you can now indulge in some Richie McCaw-style shenanigans in the ruck in the hopes of securing a turnover. Scrums have also been tweaked and feel more realistic – a well-timed push no longer sends a team charging up the field in defiance of the laws of physics – while lineouts have the welcome addition of an option to catch and form a maul straight away.Much of this is tarnished however by the same problems with lack of licences that blighted the original game, with many teams still featuring made-up names, including the Barbarians, the Lions' first tour opponents, which rather spoils the experience from the opening whistle.
Crowdfunded last yearwith its promise as an indie alternative to mainstream consoles, OUYA has finally made it to retail with the gamer-friendly price tag of £99 and USP of allowing independent developers to sell games directly to players through its online store.Unfortunately, that promise has translated into a disappointingly limited selection of games for this Android-powered device. Worse, most of what is available now are remakes of existing titles for phones and browsers. Generally these don't capitalise on the controller or screen size the console provides, making the OUYA version seem inferior or pointless. Graphics range from the passable to the outright bad and there aren't many truly interesting titles, save for the spectacularly entertainingBombSquad. There are also few other applications, with no Netflix or TV catch-up services, although there is a TwitchTV app for watching other people play games the OUYA can't run.The design at least is admittedly quite appealing. It's sleek and remarkably small; the whole thing can be held comfortably in one hand. The controller is unimaginative but fine, and does feature a handy mouse touch-pad in the middle. Unfortunately it also feels a tad cheap yet cost £40 each, which becomes pretty expensive if you want to OUYA with friends.The device only really comes to life for the more technically inclined; emulation and "side-loading' applications from Android phones may drastically increase the console's potential. But most of what the OUYA does is better covered by other gaming devices, making this feel more like an expensive toy than a cheap console.
The advent of "freemium" gaming on mobile devices is a trend swiftly crossing over to the serious console market – so it's startling to see something priced on the App Store at £13.99. Fortunately, this is for a fully fledged port of alien invasion strategy gameXCOM: Enemy Unknown(2k, iOS) –thegame of 2012 for many.Playing as commander of XCOM – a global organisation reacting to hostile UFO attacks – you must balance the needs of demanding nations, while sending grunts on to the ground for turn-by-turn-based combat, and also managing a base. If that sounds like a lot to handle, that's because it is:XCOMis unforgiving. Something magnified by the horrible finality of combat casualties. When a soldier dies, he dies, taking with him all his experience and skills – all that's left is a name on the barracks' memorial wall.The game works across all recent i-devices, with saves syncing over the cloud to allow play on multiple machines – a real boon. The touch-screen controls suit the title perfectly, and while the camera is sometimes a little fiddly, it never detracts from this splendidly constructed title.Avengers Alliance(Marvel, free, iOS) is another familiar title – a favourite already on Facebook as a browser game – but in contrast it won't trouble the wallet. Well not at first. A turn-based combat game, featuring all your favourite super-heroes, it pits your team into combat against a variety of nefarious villains. The gameplay is straightforward, yet addictive, and the need to level up the heroes, as well as boost the roster by purchasing more super-powered friends, makes it hard to put down. And here's where the developers make their money. You can spend hours, days, ploughing through the title before you earn enough in game currency to add the Hulk, or Wolverine to the team. Or you could spend anywhere between £1.50 and £70 to buy the resources needed, and cut out all the hard work. It's tempting, and frustrating – yet it's the direction of traffic for many mobile titles.
Dearly beloved: our subject this morning is online pornography and what to do about it. The fact that there is a good deal of erotic material on the net is beyond dispute, thoughthe precise amount is unclear. Let us assume that X % of websites contain porn, where X is a number between 5 and 15. What does that tell us? Answer: an awful lot of people seem to be interested in pornography.  If there wasn't a demand, then presumably there wouldn't be  such an abundant supply.In the early days of the web, things were pretty straightforward. As with any novel communications technology, pornographers were early and enthusiastic adopters. In one respect at least they were no different from their predecessors (who likewise exploited  photography and movies whenthosemedia were new): they had a business model. In the 1990s smut peddlers produced pornographic movies and put them on the web. But they weren't free: punters had to pay by credit card, which effectively meant that hardcore porn was only available to adults.This kept the problem apparently within manageable bounds. The fact that pornographers found it worth their while to produce and disseminate their wares (which involved some investment and expense) suggested that there was a real market for the stuff. And given that the net effectively lowered what one might call the "shame threshold" (instead of having to sneak furtively into a "specialist" shop, punters could view from the comfort and privacy of their own homes), the internet undoubtedly expanded the market for commercial porn. However much the puritan lobby might dislike this seamier side of human nature, at least the commercial nexus confined it to adults and kept it out of the reach of children.What upset this apple cart was the rise of user-generated content, aka amateur porn. And this, oddly enough, predated the mainstream net.  The culprits were companies like Sony and Panasonic, who brought to market inexpensive, user-friendly camcorders, and software companies who created and marketed affordable video-editing tools. These developments enabled an explosion of amateur porn, usually made by couples who for one reason or another were keen to film their erotic antics. In the beginning, the resulting products were hawked in pubs, but the arrival of broadband connections and hosting services made it inevitable that this (free) user-generated porn would find its way online.Which brings us to the current outbreak of moral panic (enthusiastically amplified by theDaily Mail) about freely available online pornography. Some of the statistics used to support this panic seem, at best,questionablebut that's not to say that there isn't very nasty stuff online – so-called"rape porn" videos, for example. One focus of the current campaign is to close loopholes like the one that makes such videos legal if they are uploaded from locations outside the UK.That seems reasonable to me. But, in a way, identifying and barring the truly horrible content is the easy part, at least in legal terms. If downloading or viewing certain kinds of online content is deemed illegal, then internet companies know where they stand, and they will obey the law. If a site contains illicit content, then Google et al will find ways of not pointing to it.The problem is that this alone will not stop people who are willing to take the legal risk implicit in accessing illegitimate sites. The next logical step, therefore, is to make access impossible by forcing internet service providers to block them, using the same technology that the Chinese government employs to make sure that nobody in China learns anything about, say,Falun Gong.Not surprisingly, nobody in the industry likes this idea. Apart from the extra costs it would impose, it also places companies in the uncomfortable position of deciding what their customers can read and view.  And it would effectively put the UK in the same boat as China, Saudi Arabia, Turkmenistan and other countries whose governments decide what citizens can access.Nevertheless, the ISPs are feeling the heat from a government desperate to be seen to be "doing something" about porn. The biggest four companies (BT, Sky, TalkTalk and Virgin Media) have now "voluntarily" agreed to adopt network-level filtering and will present customers with the option of whether or not to enable it and which "categories"it should block. The only outstanding issues are whether or not any of these categories will come pre-ticked with a "Yes" to enable them; and how many seconds it will take teenagers to change them. This one will run and run.
No, drag coefficient has nothing to do with how dull a car is. We're&nbsp;talking aerodynamics here. A&nbsp;car's drag coefficient, aka its Cd, affects the way&nbsp;it moves through the air. The lower the figure, the less resistance and the more easily the car slips along. The Mirage – Mitsubishi's replacement for the Colt, which has been sent to the knacker's yard, boiled down to make glue – has a&nbsp;drag coefficient of 0.27Cd.That's more slippery than any of its class rivals – heck, it's practically a fish. Maybe not a barracuda, but a&nbsp;sardine, at least. With apologies to&nbsp;my many readers who are aerodynamic engineers, but you must understand that I write also for&nbsp;the non-specialist, and the sea&nbsp;angler. Obviously I realise the&nbsp;sardine thing isn't perfect, because&nbsp;a&nbsp;fish goes in water and a&nbsp;Mitsubishi&nbsp;Mirage doesn't, you hope, but anyway…A low Cd figure means it's easier to push along and that, coupled with an efficient engine and not too many kgs of weight, means plenty of ms per g and not too many gs of CO2per km. (Isn't it crazy that figures for cars are half metric and half imperial?) So you don't have to pay for your tax disc or congestion charge in London. Good news.The other good news about the Mitsubishi Mirage is that there's plenty of room in the back. I'm tall – in metres, feet, whichever way you look at me – so I would expect to have issues of legroom and, possibly, headroom in the back of a car of this size. Now, I wouldn't want to spend all day back there, but it's really not bad. Plus there are rear doors, so I can actually get in.And that's where the good news runs out, I'm afraid. The rest is indifferent at best, bad at worst. Inside, it feels cheap, even in the top-level trim I've got. But it's not cheap. Look at the picture: 12,000&nbsp;squids for that! Are you having a laugh?Nor is it cute, or lovable, which you'd also hope for in a little city car. Maybe so much energy went into getting the Cd figure down that they forgot to give it any ID. The dullness coefficient figure – 0.98 – is actually the highest in its class.And to drive? Pah! The steering is&nbsp;limp; it wobbles and leans all over&nbsp;the place. Forget about sardines&nbsp;(known, of course, for their&nbsp;agility and predator-shaking-off turning skills). The Mirage handles and corners like a bloody jellyfish. A&nbsp;Portuguese man-of-war, perhaps, but with the sting removed, because a sting's too much&nbsp;fun.Mitsubishi Mirage 3 1.2Price£11,999Top speed112mphAcceleration0-60mph in 11.7 secondsCombined fuel consumption(manufacturer's figure)65.7mpgCO2emissions100g/kmGreen rating8/10Cool rating3/10
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewYour mission to harvest souls for Death is accompanied by silly-looking weapons, endless crates of ammunition and a background of relentless heavy metal. It's the sort of thing that used to pass for fun in gaming's formative years and comes with old problems it's a relief to have forgotten about: endless strafing in circles; no visual cues that you're injured other than tiny digits in the bottom corner; and enemies whose idea of AI is to run towards you in tedious herds. It's actually quite a good analogy for being stuck in Purgatory, and on the plus side you won't be stuck for long, with its single-player campaign clocking in at a sub-Call of Duty five-ish hours. Risible.
Games out this week includeCompany Of Heroes 2(PC), a real-time strategy game in which you're the one sending conscripts to their inevitable freezing doom in the second world war's apocalyptic Russian tour;Ride To Hell: Retribution(Xbox, PS3, PC) puts you in charge of recruiting a biker gang before enacting various modes of B-movie violence on rivals, policemen and bystanders; the superbMinecraft Xbox Edition(Xbox) is now available on a disc, having previously only been sold via Xbox Live download;Time &amp; Eternity(PS3) is an action role-playing game with anime visuals that's highly unlikely to trouble the UK charts;NeoGeo X Mega Pack Vol 1(NeoGeo X) comes with crusty arcade classics Metal Slug 2, Top Hunter and The King Of Fighters '96; andNew Super Luigi U(Wii U) features Mario's wayward younger brother in super-tough remixes of New Super Mario Bros U levels.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewIn Animal Crossing: New Leaf, you move into a town populated by friendly talking animals and become its mayor, providing everything from the town's name to new municipal building projects. However, unlike Sim City, this isn't about connecting sewage pipes and building power plants, but about socialising with the townsfolk, helping find exhibits for the museum, and decorating your house as beautifully as possible. You can't win it, there's no score and absolutely no way to die, and yet there's a strange and joyous compulsion to do more: to go fishing, extend your house or design a new T-shirt. You find yourself playing every day, but obsessions have rarely felt so harmless, or so benign.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewAs in the first game, Cover Orange 2 has you protecting anthropomorphic citrus fruit from spiky raindrops released by a marauding cloud. You do that by dropping a limited collection of wheels, blocks and fellow oranges into whatever tangle of machinery its designers have left for you. Puzzles are ingenious; gaining three stars on each demands good timing and keen observational skills to grab a final star proffered to you by a random piece of scenery, effectively ratcheting up and maintaining tension throughout each level.
Facebook is to crack down on ads running next to offensive material by launching a new system that will create a blacklist of pages and groups that contain any violent, graphic or sexual content, even if it previously passed its community standards.The social networking company will apply the new measures from Monday, following mounting pressure from advertisers such as Nissan, Nationwide and BSkyB, which havepulled campaignsover concerns about the content of web pages where they appeared.Sky's ad for an M&amp;S voucher promotion was placed on a Facebook page called "cute and gay boys",according to BBC News.Facebook intends to start with a manual review of every potentially controversial page or group so that they can be identified to stop ad campaigns appearing on them in the future."We will now seek to restrict ads from appearing next to pages and groups that contain any violent, graphic or sexual content (content that does not violate our community standards),"the company said. "Prior to this change, a page selling adult products was eligible to have ads appear on its right-hand side; now there will not be ads displayed next to this type of content."Facebook said that the laborious manual review will be completed by the end of next week, and a greatly expanded restricted list of pages and groups where ads are blocked will be created."We know that marketers work hard to promote their brands, and we take their objectives seriously," the company said. "While we already have rigorous review and removal policies for content against our terms, we recognise we need to do more to prevent situations where ads are displayed alongside controversial Pages and Groups."Facebook said that following the manual cull it intends to build a "more scalable, automated way to prevent and/or remove ads appearing next to controversial content" that will be rolled out "in the coming weeks"."All of this will improve detection of what qualifies as questionable content, which means we'll do a better job making sure advertising messages appear next to brand-appropriate Pages and Groups," the company said. "While these changes won't have a meaningful impact on Facebook's business, they will result in benefits to people and marketers".
It's October 1942, and the German 6th Army is trapped on the banks of the Volga River between Red Army divisions stationed in Kalach and Stalingrad. At their lowest, temperatures hit -30°C. Wehrmacht soldiers, their supply lines cut, and chronically short of food, celebrate Christmas by eating the horses they rode in on. The civilians in Stalingrad are lucky to eat so well: diary accounts show that many of Stalingrad's denizens ate dogs and rats, and stole from their malnourished neighbours to survive. At the war's end, Stalingrad's population had fallen from 850,000 to just 1,500.Here starts Company of Heroes 2's campaign: death and decay on the Eastern front.Company of Heroes: Tales of Valouris a tough act to follow. It's widely credited with having revitalised real-time strategy games: out went detailed economy management, in came territorial capture. Resource-gathering RTS games turn off many casual gamers, since to achieve mastery it helps to have a little bit of decision maths up your sleeve. In Company of Heroes, infantry and vehicle classes balanced each other in a sort of six-way variant of 'rock, paper, scissors', while cover and firing lines made positioning central to tactics. Combat, as in the Second World War, was both fluid and attritional – grinding away at an enemy's front lines and rapid outflanking were both successful strategies. This worked better than the straightforward mass-'em-and-rush-'em strategies beloved of the genre's less imaginative offerings. Company of Heroes offers a kind of RTS different to Total Annihilation/Supreme CommanderorStar Craft II– base building and warmaking on an epic scale is the approach of the former, while the latter demands micromanagement and mastery of short cuts. &nbsp;These components of Company of Heroes, which made it both a commercially successful and enjoyable game, remain unchanged in Company of Heroes 2. Game developers Relic instead opt for a series of minor changes, and a graphical overhaul.&nbsp;Unlockable enhancements are currently à la mode in the games industry. Here repeated playing yields decorative ribbons, vehicle and troop skins, and special abilities. This is close to the deck of cards system in Age of Empires, where experience provided small bonuses to unit or building characteristics.Company of Heroes 2 also complicates tank conflict somewhat. A larger pool of tanks means each vehicle performs a more versatile role. They are no longer specialised infantry killers or anti-tank platforms, but multi-purpose vehicles that serve both offensive and defensive roles.Less pleasingly, Company of Heroes 2 brings to life 'General Winter', the Soviet nickname for the extreme climactic forces that ravaged the Nazi invasion of Russia during Operation Barbarossa, and the invading French forces during the Napoleonic War. A nice idea, perhaps, but in practice it's irritating: your soldiers die unless they stand in cover, or by conveniently located fires dotted around the map. There is a good reason why, in the great majority of games, your troops do not die spontaneously of natural causes.&nbsp;In multiplayer, thankfully, this is optional.A new line-of-sight mechanic enhances the tactical role of positioning: you'd better make sure to point your guns in the right direction. It also makes flanking smarter. Smoke can be used defensively, either to cover advancing troops or to shield tanks from heavy ordnance.And, the new race – in the parlance both of RTS games, and of the Nazis – the Soviets, has a unique play style founded on numerical superiority. Stalin declared all retreating Red Army soldiers traitors to the Soviet Union, and this is nodded to with another mildly irritating feature, whereby retreating troops are intermittently shot by AI NKVD officers. &nbsp;The visuals have been given a mandatory upgrade – six years have passed since Company of Heroes, after all – so when flamethrower meets flesh the resultant combustion is ripe with detail. &nbsp;&nbsp;The nowadays seemingly obligatory plot device ofCall of Duty: Black OpsandBattlefield 3, where a soldier's historical exploits are revisited during an interrogation, frames the campaign. The brutality of the Red Army is referenced, although we perhaps don't get a sense of the actual scale either of the conflicts, or of Russian war crimes. The game sees the Soviets execute a handful of Polish partisans, whereas individual mass graves of several thousand Polish soldiers have been unearthed in the Krakovian countryside. It is not hard to see why this wasn't included in the game. However, there is something a little silly about invading Berlin, which conflict involved two and a half million Red Army soldiers, under a population cap that limits you to around 70 troops. &nbsp;&nbsp;Matchmaking has been improved, and there is a&nbsp;smörgåsbord&nbsp;of maps to choose from.&nbsp;Multiplayer offers ample scope to enjoy the game's mechanics to your heart's content. And a range of co-op and scenario missions allow you to experiment with different tactics. &nbsp;These changes are so many extra bells and whistles, however, tied to Company of Heroes' prefabricated sleigh. It's fun for exactly the same reasons Company of Heroes: Tales of Valour was fun. Many hours of rewarding historical conflict await. Play the original first: it's considerably cheaper. But do not, under any circumstances,watch the straight-to-video 2013 film of the same name featuring Vinnie Jones. It gives you quite a good idea of what civilians in Stalingrad had to live through.&nbsp;
We haven't rounded up a bunch of game events for a while, so here's a selection of upcoming treats, from art exhibitions to game developer get-togethers. Have a look, and suggest more if I've missed anything out!Brains Eden 2013 Gaming FestivalWhere:Anglia Ruskin University, CambridgeWhen:28 June - 1 JulyWhat:you'll have to be quick to catch this interesting Bafta-supported event, featuring talks from industry veterans as well as a game jam. If you don't make it there today, there's a career clinic and a video game artwork exhibition still to catch on Monday.Journey art collectionWhere:Cook &amp; Becker, Damrak 68-5a, AmsterdamWhen:NowWhat:With its stark, minimalist environments and iconic character design, Journey has always been almost as much art as it is game. Now, the Cook &amp; Becker gallery in Amsterdam is selling a range of art prints inspired by the work of ThatGameCompany art director Matt Nava and signed by designers. There are several different images at $195 each and all are limited to 50 copies. You can see more at theonline gallery. Cook &amp; Becker specialises in digital art and also has some interesting pieces from Bioshock Infinite.GameDevNorth – LeedsWhere:White Cloth Gallery, LeedsWhen:6 JulyWhat:The GameDevNorth meetings are informal industry networking events for developers, students and even the odd Triple A studio. They're a great way to meet other coders, artists and designers in the area. There is also a sponsored bar, and after the official event ends, there is also an 'after party'. You can find out more via theTwitter feed. And if you're a little further south, there's aGameDevMidlandson 3 August.GamescomWhere:Koelnmesse, CologneWhen:22-25 AugustWhat:Billed as the world's largest event for games and interactive entertainment, Gamescom is both a key trade meeting and a public show. Most of the big publishers will be here, showing off their big 2013 hits to around 275,000 visitors. If you can afford the trip, day tickets are reasonably priced at 11 Euros, and there are concessions for children and students. There's also anofficial camp sitenearby if you're on a budget!Eurogame ExpoWhere:Earls Court, LondonWhen:26-29 SeptemberWhat:The biggest UK video games event and always a must-attend. The line up has yet to be announced, but expect all the year's big Xmas releases, and dare we hope to see the next-gen consoles? I think we can. There are also plenty of fascinating developer sessions to attend, so you can get the inside story on your favourite games and studios. Although, the event is hugely popular, Eurogamer has always done well to ensure there aren't ridiculously long queues everywhere and there's a great atmosphere about the place. A real highlight of the year.
More than $2bn was wiped from the stock market value of smartphone maker Blackberry on Friday  after financial results suggested its bid to join the personal computing revolution had hit the wall.Wall Street analysts had expected the Canadian company to produce a modest $25m (£16.4m) operating profit but instead the firm revealed a shock $169m loss and missed its sales targets.BlackBerry has spent the last 18 months evolving its handsets from email machines to internet phones capable of hosting any application from Ebay to Twitter.But the group shipped just 2.72m of its new generation Z10 and Q10 handsets in their first full quarter on sale, up from 1m last quarter. Wall Street had been expecting an already weak 3m. In total, 6.8m Blackberry handsets were shipped in the three months to the beginning of June, fewer than a year ago and well below forecasts of 8m.The news shook hopes that chief executive Thorsten Heins, who took control last year from the company's founder Mike Lazaridis, had put BlackBerry on a firmer footing against Apple and Samsung. The heavily shorted shares crashed 27% in three hours, losing every cent gained since January."We are doing the right thing," Heins assured investors on Friday. "A transition takes time."Analysts said BlackBerry was fast running out of options. Overall revenues were up 15% on the previous quarter, but the safety net of monthly subscriptions to its business and consumer services is being whittled away – subscriber numbers fell to 72 million, from 76 million in the previous quarter."In terms of user traction they are in crash mode," said Pierre Ferragu at asset manager AllianceBernstein. "They are getting closer and closer to the ground at an accelerating pace. You should never say never but it is probably too late for them to be acquired by anyone."Rumours that Chinese manufacturer Lenovo was interested in acquiring BlackBerry had helped lift its by a quarter since January, and its stock market value stood at $7.6bn on Thursday night. By mid-afternoon on Friday, this had fallen to $5.4bn.The financial picture was further darkened by a planned currency devaluation in Venezuela, which held back payments from BlackBerry subscribers in the country, and slashed $72m from service revenues.In its first-quarter results statement, the company said: "The smartphone market remains highly competitive, making it difficult to estimate units, revenue and levels of profitability." As a result, operating losses are expected to continue, with the company forecasting more in the second quarter. BlackBerry still has a cash cushion of $3.1bn, its biggest for three years.Recent weeks have seen executives depart in key markets. Rob Orr, promoted to UK managing director nine months ago, has left to join Samsung and Sunil Dutt, managing director of BlackBerry's sizeable Indian business, quit in March, 14 months after joining the firm.Mike Walkley, an analyst with broker Canaccord Genuity, said: "With Z10, Q10, and Q5 all shipping in the August quarter and BlackBerry still guiding to a loss we believe that is strong evidence BB10 has not turned around BlackBerry in an extremely competitive smartphone market."
James Martin, who has died aged 79, was one of the world's most prominent futurologists. Martin made a personal fortune from writing dozens of bestselling computer textbooks, giving executive seminars around the world and establishing a major IT consultancy. A growing preoccupation with the future of humankind led him to make the largest ever individual benefaction to Oxford University, totalling $150m, which resulted in the creation in 2005 of what became theOxford Martin School, supporting interdisciplinary research into the problems and challenges we may face in years to come.Martin was born in Ashby-de-la-Zouch, Leicestershire, the only child in a working-class family. He won a scholarship to Ashby grammar school, where he was a brilliant but shy pupil. In 1950 he took up a scholarship at Keble College, Oxford. Although nominally a physics student, he was an eclectic scholar, sitting in on the lectures of Bertrand Russell and Isaiah Berlin, which left a permanent impression on him. He was keen to be a writer but his early efforts garnered only rejection slips.After graduation, he undertook his national service in the army. He was commissioned as an engineering officer; this gave him some leadership skills and helped overcome his lack of confidence. In 1959 he joined IBM, which had only recently begun its UK computer operations, as a data processing analyst.In the late 1950s, IBM was pioneering online computer systems, which processed business information in real time. Martin was sent to New York to work on the joint IBM-American Airlines Sabre airline reservations project, the first commercial real-time system. Martin returned to Britain to help transfer real-time technology to several European airlines and banks. He was given increasingly senior roles, culminating in the overall design of BOAC's worldwide airline reservations system.In the mid-1960s, he made a change of career direction by transferring to IBM's Systems Research Institute, an in-house university and thinktank in New York. He loved America, which he found optimistic and classless compared with England. He became IBM's leading expert on real-time computing, and conducted seminars for staff and customers. At first his presentations were hesitant and ineffective, because of his innate shyness. However, he made a study of speaking techniques, and quickly developed a commanding stage presence – helped by his 6ft 5in frame and well-cut suits. Off-stage, however, he remained undemonstrative and quietly spoken all his life.In 1965, at the invitation of the publisher Prentice Hall, he wrote the textbook Programming Real-Time Computer Systems. It sold well, and over the next 20 years he published more than 60 textbooks with the same publisher. He had an easy, accessible writing style and his books were peppered with engaging photographs and illustrations. Unusually, they appealed equally to practitioners and academics.Meanwhile, Martin's interests were turning towards technology forecasting, and he wrote The Computerized Society (1970) and The Wired Society (1977). These books were aimed at a general readership, rather than computer professionals. The Wired Society predicted – surprisingly accurately, as it turned out – that the world of 2000 would be girdled by global information networks used by everybody. The book was an international bestseller and was nominated for a Pulitzer prize. Martin became decidedly wealthy. Although IBM did not generally permit its employees to profit from royalty payments, the company made an exception in his case.To maintain his massive literary output, he was assisted by an editor, Charity Howland Anders, whom he married in 1971 and with whom he had his only child, a daughter, Corinthia. They later separated, and Martin married twice more.After the success of The Wired Society, Martin left IBM to become a freelance author and lecturer. He moved to Bermuda, which suited his reclusive temperament, had tax advantages and was well-placed geographically to reach his international clientele. He conducted five-day executive seminars around the world, produced hundreds of videotaped lectures to complement his books, consulted for government and private organisations, and wrote more books – eventually producing more than 100 titles including The Meaning of the 21st Century (2006). He remained in Bermuda for the rest of his life, buying the four-acre Agar's Island, where he built a large house in the colonial style, surrounded by guest houses, tennis and squash courts, and a swimming pool.In 1981 he established James Martin Associates in London, to provide computer and consulting services. The company developed a successful and lucrative software methodology for large, complex systems, and created a corporate identity based on "information engineering". Over the next 20 years, the company expanded, acquired several smaller firms, and became one of the leading global IT services organisations. In 2006 it was renamedHeadstrong, and Martin took on the role of chairman emeritus.Away from the world of business, around 1990 Martin became increasingly concerned about the future of humankind, in dealing with climate change, political and financial instability, nuclear proliferation and global poverty. By nature an optimist, he did not view any of these problems as insoluble – provided they were addressed.His first response was to found theJames Martin Centre for Nonproliferation Studiesat the Monterey Institute of International Studies. In 2005, he negotiated with Oxford University to establish the 21st Century School, with initial funding of $100m. Within the school, separate institutes were established to address different global problems such as population ageing, medical epidemics and cyber security. In 2010 the school was renamed the Oxford Martin School and, with further benefactions from Martin, it currently supports some 300 scholars in 30 interdisciplinary research projects.Martin is survived by his third wife, Lillian, his daughter, and twin grandchildren, James and Bronte.• James Martin, writer, lecturer and businessman, born 19 October 1933; died 24 June 2013
Google's range of Nexus smartphones and tablets has established it as a seller of own-brand Android hardware, even if it gets other companies to make the devices. Now it may be planning to enter the games console market.At least,that's what the Wall Street Journal is claiming, with an unequivocal statement in a report on Google's plans to match Apple unannounced-product for unannounced-product in the coming years."Google Inc. is developing a videogame console and wristwatch powered by its Android operating system, according to people familiar with the matter, as the Internet company seeks to spread the software beyond smartphones and tablets," claims the report, which also predicts a new version of Google's never-commercially-released Nexus Q media streamer."The Internet giant hopes to design and market the devices itself and release at least one of them this fall, they added."Google would certainly be on-trend with an Android-based games console in 2013.Kickstarter-funded Ouya's $99 devicehas just gone on sale in the US, Canada and UK, with rivalsGameStick,GamepopandProject M.O.J.O.on the way, and Nvidia's Project Shield handheld also due for release this summer.An official Android console may be bad news for these devices – although it's possible one of their manufacturers will be brought in to make it – but it's Apple that appears to be the real target in Google's crosshairs."The people briefed on the matter said Google is reacting in part to expectations that rival Apple will launch a videogame console as part of its next Apple TV product release," suggests the WSJ.Currently, iPhone, iPad and iPod touch owners can play games on their televisions via Apple TV using the AirPlay wireless streaming feature, but Apple TV itself doesn't run games or sell them in an app store.Google has been involved in the games industry for some time already, and not just through its stewardship of Android's Google Play store.The companylaunched a games section for its Google+ social networkin August 2011, working with developers including Rovio, Zynga, Kabam, PopCap and Wooga to port their social games to the service.However,Google+ Games is shutting down on 30 June, as Google concentrates on its Google Play game services project: a software development kit (SDK) for developers to add social features and Google+ sign-ins to their games on Android, iOS and the Web.A number of browser-based games are alsoavailable through Google's Chrome Web Store, including Angry Birds, Cut the Rope, Plants vs Zombies, Bejeweled and Need for Speed World.In April,Google hired games industry veteran Noah Falsteinfor a role as chief game designer, with TechCrunch reporting in May that an earlier version of his LinkedIn profile listed him as "chief game designer at Android Play Studio".First-party games may be an important element in a Google games console. Google has made its own games before too, such as location-based Android gameIngressand the recently-launched browser gameCube Slam.If the company does have ambitions in the hardware space, it's unlikely to be targeting core gamers. An official Android console wouldn't be threatening Microsoft's Xbox One, Sony's PlayStation 4 or Nintendo's Wii-U in that sense.It's more interesting to think about a Google games console in the context of its existingGoogle TVbusiness: the smart-TV platform that has appeared in TVs by Sony and LG among other manufacturers, as well as set-top boxes from Logitech and Vizio.There is little evidence of Google TV taking off so far, but games have been a part of it. Asmattering of gamesincluding Canabalt and Zynga Poker have been optimised for the platform, while cloud-gaming servicesOnLiveandUbitushave both supported Google TV too.In May 2013,Google updated Google TV to the latest version of Androidat the time – 4.2.2 Jelly Bean – including support for Android's Native Development Kit (NDK) to create richer, better-looking games.Put all these pieces together: Native Android games, HTML5 titles running in the Chrome browser, cloud-streaming games from the console/PC space and an in-house development team, and you can see how a Google games console could be an intriguing prospect.The question is whether Google really is putting all those pieces together, and just as importantly, whether the result will be a device where people spend enough money on (and within) games to persuade lots of developers to get behind it, compared to whatever Apple has planned for Apple TV.
Announced in January, Disney Infinity is the entertainment giant's most ambitious video game project ever – a sprawling multi-part adventure, using characters from an ever-growing range of much-loved movies. Vitally, like Activision's smash hit Skylanders, players are able to buy action figures that interact with the onscreen world when placed on a special 'Infinity base' peripheral.When the game is released on 23 August, fans will be able to buy a starter set that includes the base, the game and three action figures: Mr. Incredible, Jack Sparrow and Sulley. Each set has its own mini-adventure to take part in, but there's also a toy box mode where players can mix and match characters to create their own adventures.With play sets covering everything from Toy Story to Pirates of the Caribbean, and more on the way, Infinity is pretty much dream territory for Disney-mad kids – though their parents had better brace themselves: action figures are around £13 each, and although the game functions without extra purchases, each new figure opens up fresh sections of the adventure. The 'connected toy' recipe has certainly proved successful for Activision – Skylanders is a billion dollar success story. No wonder Disney has invested a reported $100m on Infinity's development.So how did developer Avalanche Software come up with the concept, and how will it all work? We emailed over some questions to producer John Day and here's what he wrote back.Obvious start: can you tell us a little bit about how Infinity came together? What were the origins of the concept?At the studio, we've often marvelled at how people play with and experience toys. We remember when we were kids, pulling all of our toys out onto the floor and making up our own games and stories.  And now, we see our own kids doing the same thing. Many of us still have a whole bunch of toys in our offices too. There seems to be something universal about the fun of playing with toys and Disney Infinity is a digital recreation of this idea of play.And let's get this out of the way: how much did you look at Skylanders during development? There are obvious similarities...The connected toys category is ever growing and while both games have interactive figures, the similarities really end there. Disney Infinity is an open world game featuring popular Disney IP and a groundbreaking Toy Box that allows players to use any combination of characters, game worlds and gadgets to create their own stories and play experiences starring their favourite Disney and Pixar characters. What Disney Infinity is offering is a significantly different product than our competitors.How have you decided on the play sets to include in the game? Has it been about selecting the most popular Disney brands, or about choosing the ones most appropriate for the game?A bit of both really – our goal is to deliver quality play experiences that attract and sustain a global audience, so we have done a lot of research to help us select the right Disney IPs that can achieve this. In addition, we chose brands that would deliver diverse and fun gameplay experiences to players.I believe that the play-set mode will involve each Disney series in its own mini-game. Is that correct? Can you tell us more about these? Will we end up with lots of different games within the Infinity package?Each of the Disney Infinity play sets features an original storyline and a true to property play experience.  For example, The Incredibles is all about saving the world from Syndrome and his new evil plan, while Monsters University delivers a new storyline featuring the popular film characters pulling off pranks and battling a rival University called Fear Tech. These are packed with a lot of action and upwards of six hours of gameplay each.Disney Infinity is designed as a platform that will grow over the years with new interactive figures, play sets and power discs that will deliver new experiences to players throughout the year.And how about the toy box mode – is the idea to give total creative freedom to users? And will there be any sharing elements to what players come up with?The toy box was really born out of watching how kids play and seeing how much they enjoyed mixing and matching up a variety of toys and gadgets to create unique adventures. That's really what this is about – giving players of all skill levels the ability to create the experiences they dream of, featuring the characters they love.For some players, that might mean having total creative freedom and for others that could be playing 'toy box adventures', which are pre-made worlds that can be customised. It's really up to the player.We will also allow players to share their UGC with friends across platforms using their Disney ID and we have plans to allow players to submit content to Disney, which will be reviewed and if approved, potentially chosen for sharing with the community.While the player really can do anything they want in the toy box, we do provide a number of structured experiences for the players who don't want to build everything themselves. Every character figure comes with its own 'adventure', which is a small game tailored around the theme and strengths of that figure. We have other adventures, independent of figure, for the players to experience as well.What are the guiding principles of game design on the Infinity project? Do you need to keep the spirit and themes of the original movies in mind – how is that both a benefit and a restrain on design?One of the key goals for Disney Infinity is to create an authentic and immersive experience. A big part of pulling that off is to preserve those characteristics that define these characters and worlds. In working with the filmmakers, I think we all understood that goal, and worked together to ensure that we could make a great game, and ensure that it felt as true to property as possible.Are you working with any of the animated movies' scriptwriters or directors? Has that been a help? How?We worked closely with the filmmakers throughout the development of Infinity. In cooperation with them, we designed toy versions of their characters and collaborated with the studio writers to create original storylines that were true to property and authentic to each IP.How are you designing the figures themselves? Has this task been handed to a toy manufacturer? What's the key element to get right here?The character department here at Avalanche Software handled all of the designs for the figures. After settling on some style guidelines, ultimately the goal was to just make the coolest version of the character possible. Many of us here at the office are toy collectors – and it shows if you walk around the office! We just wanted to make something high quality and collectible.So will Infinity grow indefinitely? Do you see this as a platform rather than a single release?We will continue to grow Infinity by introducing new play sets, power discs and figures at retail and players will be able to share their unique content with family and friends using their Disney ID account. We also have plans for creating a community where our fans will be able to upload content that Disney will review and potentially offer for download.Will you be looking into 'pervasive gaming' elements – having smartphone and iPad 'companion apps' so players can interact with the world while on the move?We will have additional details to share about our mobile offerings in the near future. Stay tuned!I guess one of the advantages of having figures is that players can take their characters to friends and put them in their games – what are the game-design ramifications of this? How will you facilitate this sort of shared gaming experience?Each Disney Infinity figure remembers the individual player's experiences and upgrades, which means that kids will be able to bring their unique characters to life in their friend's game across consoles in both single and multiplayer games. Players can also upload their personal UGC to Disney ID, download it on a friend's console and have a brand new level to experience together.In addition to character figures, Disney Infinity also uses power discs to enhance the characters, and to bring new toys into the toy box. These power discs are sold in blind packs, so I expect players will need to do some trading and swapping with their friends in order to get the ones they're after. The power discs also work on any platform.Have you taken many design ideas from areas like social, smartphone or casual gaming? For a while everyone was looking at this sector for ideas – especially payment methods. Is there anything to learn from titles like Farmville, Angry Birds, etc?We did a lot of research into a number of different monetisation methods and strategies early in development, looking at everything from mobile games, Facebook games, free-to-play games on various platforms, and ultimately settled on the simple elegance of having the toys themselves be our transaction driver. They allow the player to access more of the content they want, based on which figures and play sets they acquire. And it's tough to top the ease of use of simply acquiring the figure you want, and putting it on the Infinity base.Do you see Infinity expanding onto the next-gen consoles?Disney Infinity is designed as a long term platform that will grow over the years...Disney has found it really difficult to channel the charm and humour of its animated movies into games – the tie-ins have often lacked the wide family appeal. Why do you think that is? And how will Infinity bridge that gap between child and adult gamers in the way that, say, Toy Story appeals to both kids and parents? That's got to be the biggest challenge, right?Disney Infinity is more than a console game, it is an all-new way for people of all ages to experience Disney and Pixar's most popular characters and worlds on the devices that they use every day – game consoles, handhelds, computers and mobile devices. We hope to attract players to Disney Infinity through the individual Disney IPs that are in the game and sustain their interest through the variety of Disney characters and stories available to them on one platform. It's a platform designed to grow over time, to grow with the players.• Disney Infinity is released on 23 August for Wii, Wii U, PC, PS3 and Xbox360
Microsoft has joined Google in asking to reveal how many times it has been ordered to disclose data under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), the mechanism used by the National Security Agency (NSA) and other US government agencies to gather data about foreign internet users.The request was made on 19 June in a secret court filing to the FISA court – which issues warrants for data requests – but was unsealed this week.Google filed a similar motion earlier this month as the row about claimed access by the NSA to data from nine Silicon Valley companies – Google, Microsoft, Apple, PalTalk, Skype, AOL, Yahoo, Facebook and YouTube – grew.Microsoft and Google have argued that they should be allowed to state the details under the US's First Amendment, which guarantees freedom of speech.Since details claimed by the NSA about access to data via its Prism system were published by the Guardian and Washington Post earlier in June, the companies named have published a number of documents and repeatedly denied claims in the NSA's presentation to have "direct access" to their systems.Yahoo recently joinedthe other technology companies in publishing how many aggregate surveillance requests it has received from US law enforcement – though that does not break out the number of FISA requests.FISA requests are granted by a special court that sits in secret and can grant the NSA permission to collect data stored by any company about a named person. In 2012, the court granted 1,856 requests and turned none down.Revelations about the programme by former NSA contractor Ed Snowden have prompted a broader debate about government monitoring and the privacy of Americans' communications.In its motion, Microsoft said it has sought to correct the impression "that it provides the United States government with direct access to its servers and network infrastructure and, thereby, indiscriminately discloses Microsoft users' information to the government."The company said it had received permission from the FBI and the Justice Department to publish aggregate data that includes FISA orders, along with law enforcement requests from all other local, state and federal law enforcement agencies. But Microsoft says it wants to be able to report the FISA orders separately, which it has not received permission to do.Microsoft said national security laws do not prohibit it from disclosing the data, and if the laws did, that would violate the First Amendment.
Last year Microsoft reimagined Windows. Windows 8 was released in October 2012, complete with a new touch-friendly personality intended to make the operating system work well on tablets as well as with keyboard and mouse.It was abold but controversial experiment. Users have not found it easy to adjust to the Windows 8 Start screen, which replaced the Start menu in Windows 7, and the Windows 8 app market is weak compared to that for Apple or Android apps. "I installed Windows 8 two months ago. I have yet to use a Metro app for anything," said developer Robert Smallshire on Twitter, where "Metro" refers to the new tablet apps which Microsoft officially calls "Modern" apps or Windows Store apps.Most Windows users still live in the traditional desktop environment, which is why many Windows 8 tablets are "hybrids", with keyboards and trackpads as well as touch screens.On Wednesday at its Build developer conference in San Francisco, Microsoft unveiled the preview of Windows 8.1, an update which refines the operating system without changing its character. I've been running the preview on the Surface Pro tablet given to all Build attendees.No retreatMicrosoft is not backtracking on concepts such as the Start screen or the "immersive UI" which presents Modern apps without the clutter of visible menus and toolbars. Yes, there is a Start button on the desktop - but it takes you to the Start screen rather than restoring the menu in Windows 7. TheStart buttonwill be a point of familiarity for new users, but its main benefit is the enhanced administrative menu (known as Win-X because of its keyboard shortcut) which pops up if you right-click, including an option to shut down.Users who want to avoid Modern apps have other new options, offered if you right-click the taskbar and choose properties. Here you will find "boot to desktop", the ability to list desktop apps first in the Start screen when sorted by category, and an option to default to the "All apps" view in Start. Unlike the mainly cosmetic Start button, these are significant changes. Engage them all, and when you tap Start you get a list of desktop apps grouped almost like the old menu, though it is not hierarchical. You can also show the desktop background in Start, making the transition to the Modern UI less jarring.You can make this desktop-friendly app view the default in the 'start' screen. Photograph: MicrosoftThe Start screen no longer shows all apps in the default tiled view, but only apps you select. It is also easier to customise Start groups. A swipe down takes you to the All apps view, unless you chose this as the default.Snapped to itMost of the changes in Windows 8.1 relate to Modern apps. In Windows 8.0, you can have up to two apps on view, with one snapped to the side. Thissnapped view has gone(a Microsoft engineer admitted to me that few people used it). If two apps are on view, you can now size them as you like by dragging a vertical bar, and if you have a large screen you can have up to four apps on view, though my Surface only accommodates two. Apps can also be written for two displays, with different data on each, so for example you could have a controller view and a presentation view. All good stuff.New searchA search for Adele in the Bing app brings back results that look more like a media player. The app morphs according to the type of search. Photograph: MicrosoftThe waySearchworks has changed. Previously, if you invoked search by pressing Win-S or selecting it from the right-hand Charms menu, you would be taken automatically to the Start screen. Now, search opens in a panel, and by default searches "Everywhere" rather than just Apps as before. One effect is that you can now easily open a new desktop app without ever leaving the desktop environment, using search as an app launcher. On the other hand, if you are searching more generally, you get results in a new Bing app that combines local and web search in a rich view. A search for "guardian", for example, shows Word documents with that word in the title as well as matching websites. Search for a celebrity and you get photos, biography, and for a musician, options to play songs in Xbox Music, the native music app on Windows 8.Each search creates a kind of custom app, Microsoft explained, and this feature is fun to use. The prize for Microsoft is greater Bing adoption if the approach proves popular.SkyDrive: now landingNew navigation options, including boot to desktop, make Windows 8.1 more accommodating for desktop users. Photograph: MicrosoftSkyDrive, Microsoft's cloud storage, is deeply embedded in Windows 8.1. It has its own section in PC Settings, and you can opt to save all documents to SkyDrive by default. Open Notepad, for example, type something, hit save, and it goes to SkyDrive if you do not change the location. Another SkyDrive change is that the Modern SkyDrive app now works offline, sharing local storage with the Desktop version. This makes sense if you travel or regularly work on more than one machine.Talking of PC Settings, Window 8.1 has more settings in the Modern settings app, reducing the need to run the old Control Panel. It is still not comprehensive. Mouse settings, for example, has just three options in PC settings, with many more in Control Panel. This is an improvement though.PC Settings is also the place for new features likeWorkplace, which when combined with the forthcoming update to Windows Server will let users access a business network under the control of IT administrators, but without the full "domain join" that corporate machines normally require. This is in keeping with the Bring Your Own Device trend, where a machine is used both for home and business. Combined with another feature called work folders, this lets users synchronize with documents on their business network, while allowing the IT administrator to switch off access if the machine is lost or the employee leaves.Turning IE up to 11Windows 8.1 comes withversion 11 of Internet Explorer(IE), which will also be available for Windows 7. The big new feature is WebGL (Web Graphics Library) support, a standard for showing 3D accelerated graphics in the browser without a plug-in, and ideal for browser-based games. Previously Microsoft had resisted WebGL because of security concerns, which it says are now resolved thanks to improvements both in the standard and in IE itself. There is also better touch support and faster performance, though I have not noticed much difference in day to day browsing so far.The presence of two versions of IE in Windows 8 - one on the Start screen, one on the desktop - remains confusing.Fun in Store?The Windows Store has a more appealing home page and easier navigation. Photograph: MicrosoftThe Windows Store has been revamped. The home page is more appealing and magazine-like, categories are selected from the top menu rather than by endless scrolling, and apps now update automatically if you allow it.What about the built-in apps? A new recipe app has what looks like a brilliant feature, called Hands-Free mode. If your machine has a front-facing camera, you wave your hand to navigate pages, avoiding touching the screen with sticky fingers. Unfortunately this hardly works on my Surface, suggesting that Microsoft has more work to do here, or that it is fussy about the exact hardware you use.I had better luck withReading List, essentially an app which lists shortcuts for future reference. Run Modern IE, for example, and you can add links to the Reading List using Share on the Charms menu. This also works with maps and other apps.Mailed itThe Mail app can now show a web link side by side. Photograph: MicrosoftThe Mail app is slightly improved. When I tried to add my Exchange Server account, it actually told me why it was not working (a digital certificate issue), whereas the old Mail app used to fail with infuriating silence. You can also view web links with an automatic side-by-side view, making a better experience.The new photo app, with an edit option for fine-tuning the image Photograph: MicrosoftThe Photo app now has an Edit feature with a range of options for adjusting the colour, tint, light and various effects. It is easy to use and effective.ConclusionWindows 8.1 is a significant improvement. After just a short spell with the preview, I do not want to go back. The experience for desktop users (which is most users most of the time) is smoother, and there are many small enhancements which combine make a big difference, of which I have mentioned only a few.But is it enough to fix the poor reputation of Windows 8, to persuade users sticking with Windows 7 to upgrade, or even to win sales that would otherwise go to iPad or Android tablets? Redmonk analyst James Governor is optimistic. "It's a long game," he told me. "You remember Vista, which needed a significant refactoring, and what came out of it was a decent platform. The Bing integration is significant. The split personality is a problem, but Metro is beautiful and a step forward, and will increasingly be the kind of model people use to access apps."All this chimes with me as a reviewer and early adopter; yet Microsoft is coming from behind in the tablet market, has many users reluctant to relearn how they work with Windows, and its hardware partners are creating largely hybrid devices that are expensive and compromised - though also more powerful - compared to their tablet rivals.Windows 8.1 is a refinement, but doesn't remove these obstacles.I am writing this at Microsoft's developer conference, and the effort to win over developers to the new Modern platform is key. Just a few compelling apps will drive adoption; and it may even be that the new Bing app is one such in the way it combines local and web search in a single and appealing package.Overall, it is too early to call Windows 8.1 a success, but also too soon to call the Windows 8 project a failure. Microsoft had done good work, and those who disliked the first release may want to take another look.Preview: where to get itYou can get the preview athttp://preview.windows.com, but be warned that there isno uninstallandit may not be possible to upgrade to the final version without a complete reinstall. In other words, it is not yet ready for general use.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRecon Jet is Google Glass for athletes and professionals, now available for preorder at $499 &gt;&gt; VentureBeatGoogle Glass is for walking around and getting directions to a cafe with perfect espresso. Recon Jet is for kicking your performance into the ultimate high gear and — yes — even saving lives.Recon featured in ourarticle about wearable computing in July 2012. Their focus on specialist areas is smart too. (Thanks @EasilyLead for the link.)Apple abroad: what if the world doesn't want IPhones? &gt;&gt; BusinessweekPeople who want high-end smartphones have probably already bought them, says Francisco Jeronimo, IDC's director of European mobile device research. New buyers have less disposable income and are buying smartphones only because they have become cheap. "We are now entering the second wave of smartphone adoption, which will be driven by those users with no need for a smartphone," he says.These customers have less money to spend and less reason to splurge when cheaper products are available. In addition, European phone carriers are much less generous when it comes to subsidizing customers' phones. IPhones don't seem much more expensive than other smartphones in the US, but the difference can be significant for those who are paying for them out of pocket.Logically, either Apple will see smaller market share (but, possibly, higher sales) or it will offer cheaper ones and maintain (or grow) its market.PC industry train wreck hammers Taiwanese manufacturers &gt;&gt; AllThingsDArik Hesseldahl:Research firm IHS checked in with contract manufacturers who built notebook PCs for the likes of Hewlett-Packard, Dell, Apple and others during the first quarter of 2013. The result: the number of machines they're shipping has reached a three-year low, tumbling to 33.2m units, down from 40m in the same period in 2012.The decline was expected, but the final result was actually four or five percentage points worse than even the most dire predictions made last year. Peter Lin, an IHS analyst, blamed weak economies in major regional markets and a build-up in inventory of older machines. But there's also a lot of competition from tablets like, you know, the iPad, of which Apple sold 19.5m units during the first three months of the calendar year.Worst hit among the contractors was Quanta, which builds machines for Apple, HP, Lenovo, Dell, Acer, Asus, Toshiba, Sony and Fujitsu and which saw its shipments drop 27%.WikiLeaks volunteer was a paid informant for the FBI &gt;&gt; Wired.comKevin Poulsen:[Sigurdur] Thordarson was long time volunteer for WikiLeaks with direct access to Assange and a key position as an organizer in the group. With his cold war-style embassy walk-in, he became something else: the first known FBI informant inside WikiLeaks. For the next three months, Thordarson served two masters, working for the secret-spilling website and simultaneously spilling its secrets to the US government in exchange, he says, for a total of about $5,000. The FBI flew him internationally four times for debriefings, including one trip to Washington D.C., and on the last meeting obtained from Thordarson eight hard drives packed with chat logs, video and other data from WikiLeaks.Also involves LulzSec and Iceland, in which the protagonist also admits to being a liar.PC shipments unlikely to recover after Windows 8.1 launch &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh:the option to boot directly to desktop isn't enabled by default [in 8.1], and therefore, is unlikely to have a major impact purchasing decisions made by mainstream consumers. Based on this, I would have to stand by my earlier prediction of PC shipments dropping to the 65-75m range by Q4 2013.Windows 8.1 should have no impact on the attractiveness of tablets based on the platform. While it does offer some improvements, tablet purchases are based on two primary factors (for both usage segments) - application availability and price. Even smaller Windows 8 tablets are far more expensive than competing Android tablets (prices of which are dropping to the $99 range). This problem is being compounded by low OEM interest in the ARM version, Windows RT.Surely if people know that you can set up a Windows 8.1 machine to boot to the desktop, they'll be interested in buying it? But that still assumes people outside businesses are still as interested in buying PCs as they used to be. The data suggests otherwise.Silicon Valley arts and crafts instructor gets $6m &gt;&gt; ValleywagSam Biddle on another bit of Californian venture capital madness:Brit + Co. sprung from Brit's ego, like Athena from the head of tie-dye Zeus, and basically organizes a panoply of DIY—the golden term—crafts projects. That is, essentially, her entire "startup" is an aggregation of recipes and elbow macaroni assemblages that other people came up with, formatted on a high-design website. Think Julia Allison's brain after a weekend of reading old magazines and a dozen strawberry jargaritas. It's hardly, in the traditional sense of the word, a "business," in that it doesn't try very hard to "make money." That doesn't matter. Brit is a sparkly brand. She's also married to Valley fixture andPath kingpin Dave Morin.Basic principles of capitalism notwithstanding, here are the ideas that Brit + Co's new investors say are worth (at least) $6.3m.You will howl, though whether with pleasure or pain is hard to predict. This is actually a two-for-one link: follow the one near the end about Dave Morin. It's eye-opening.Worried about accidentally 3D printing a gun? New software will prevent it &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaA Danish company that sells 3D printer component parts and related software to 3D printer manufacturers now says it has come up with a firearm component detection algorithm.On Tuesday, Create it Real announced that in the coming months its software would include an option to find and block gun parts. When it detects a file that contains firearm parts, the software will shut down and disallow printing. Create it Real's software will likely be licensed to 3D printer manufacturers for around "several thousand euros annually" and then bundled with a 3D printer sold to individual consumers.It seems to target the design by Cody Wilson's Defense Distributed. Who's going to "accidentally" print a gun though?US v Apple: A puzzle with a big piece missing &gt;&gt; Fortune TechRoger Parloff rounds up the Apple ebook antitrust trial in a thorough yet readable way. It's headache-inducingly complex even so. A verdict is due soon.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Treasury minister David Gauke has given the firmest indication yet of the government's determination to stamp out the kind of tax loopholes exploited by Google and Amazon to avoid UK tax.After listening to calls for reform from MPs of all parties during a Commons debate, he conceded there were shortcomings in international tax guidelines – specifically in what constitutes a business taxable in the UK under so-called "permanent establishment" rules.Google and Amazon take billions in sales from the UK, but route this business through Ireland and Luxembourg respectively, meaning profits cannot be taxed in the UK. Both firms insist that staff at offices in Britain are not closing sales, instead they support the UK sales efforts of their respective Irish and Luxembourg sister companies.Gauke told MPs – unanimous in their condemnation of such tax engineering – that HMRC was constrained by international tax rules. "We are leading the way in encouraging the OECD to look at what needs to be done to ensure that the tax rules are brought up to date for the internet world," he said.He dismissed claims that HMRC was not doing enough to challenge internet firms booking UK sales overseas. "They can only collect the tax due under the law," he said. All large, high-risk firms were "man-marked" by HMRC, with all activities appropriately scrutinised. Gauke pointed to £8.8bn of additional tax revenue brought in by such HMRC efforts.His words appeared to hint at possible reforms likely to appear in an OECD action plan, to be presented to a G20 meeting of finance ministers this month. The debate had been called by Chris White, Conservative MP for Warwick and Leamington, whose constituents include bookshop owners Frances and Keith Smith who have campaigned against Amazon tax avoidance, attracting almost 170,000 signatures totheir online petition.
