LA's Electronic Entertainment Expo – or E3, as it is known – is the gaming industry's biggest annual showcase. But thanks to internet leaks and early reveals, the biggest announcements at last week's shindig were of no real surprise to the savviest gamers. While Nintendo's 3DS was a relatively unknown quantity, hardware such as Microsoft's Kinect and Sony's Move were making a repeat appearance in Los Angeles, but it still didn't stop the gaming giants endeavouring to outdo one another as they unveiled what's in store for the coming year.Microsoft kicked things off on Monday with a blitzkrieg of violence and three titles with the hardcore audience firmly in its sights. The latest in theCall of Dutyseries,Black Ops, set the tone with footage of an almost deafeningly loud battle of the type for which the franchise is famed. That was followed byGears of War 3andMetal Gear Solid: Rising, the former impressing with a ferocious skirmish against a new and powerful enemy, while the latter's astonishingly gory presentation saw protagonist Raiden reduce one enemy to sashimi with a few swings of his sword. Wedged in between, the more fantastical action ofHalo Reachwas a refreshing break from the bloodshed.Thereafter, Microsoft firmly declared its intentions to offer a more inclusive experience for non-gamers and casual players with its new Kinect motion camera. Formerly referred to as Project Natal, the now-launched technology tracks player movement in 3D space while also responding to voice commands. Of the titles planned for its pre-Christmas launch, there were a few obvious stand-outs.Petting gameKinectimalsmay have resembled little more than a high-definitionNintendogs, albeit with cuddly tiger cubs and leopards replacing dachshunds and dalmatians, but made good use of the technology and will undoubtedly be a hit with youngsters.Dance Central, fromRock Banddeveloper Harmonix, is likely to be the biggest hit, with the camera capturing the player's performance and replaying the footage for later embarrassment. Extensive play with the device revealed a remarkable responsiveness, and if the launch line-up appeared to play things a little too safe, the impressiveForza Motorsportdemo, in which car lovers can walk around and climb inside their favourite vehicles, as well as drive them, showed Kinect has plenty of potential for the core gamer.Nintendo's exhibits were warmly received, with familiar faces returning in new games. On the show floor – if not in the conference auditorium –The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Swordwas popular, its impressionistic art style heralding a fresh look for the much-loved series, with the MotionPlus peripheral offering more realistic sword controls. A new adventure forDonkey Kong, from Metroid Prime creator Retro Studios, also saw snaking queues of punters.Perhaps the most pleasant software surprise was the return of the amorphous Kirby; hisEpic Yarnspun with a delightful, hand-crafted look, featuring wonderfully tactile interactions with enemies and scenery, foes unravelled rather than destroyed, and zips tugged aside to reveal hidden treasures.Though difficult to showcase effectively in a conference hall, Nintendo's 3DS was one of the hits of the show. Its lenticular top screen provides an impressive image quality, with a slider to adjust the depth of the 3D effect. Demonstrations were short, but left punters wanting more – and the software line-up already looks strong for its release in early 2011.By comparison, Sony's glasses-required stereoscopic 3D almost felt a bit old hat, despite the staggeringly detailed visuals of grim futuristic shooter sequelKillzone 3. The ruined San Francisco setting of racerMotorstorm: Apocalypseshowcased some more impressive visual depth, though certain effects were clearly unfinished. Sony had greater success demonstrating its own motion technology, Move, the unusual device proving precise and accurate, and demonstrated live to terrific effect, with impressive spell-casting and potion-swigging exploits in theHarry Potter-like adventureSorcery.Less convincing was the format-holder's support for its PSP handheld. An announcement of an advertising campaign to drum up support for the format, currently ailing in the western market, smacked of desperation. Much better was to come, however, with one of the week's few genuine surprises as the sequel to the hugely popularPortalwas revealed to be PS3-bound.Elsewhere, Ubisoft's eclectic selection of new titles caused a stir as Assassin'sCreed: Brotherhoodbrought an impressive multiplayer component to the well-liked franchise, and Rez creator Tetsuya Mizuguchi conducted a synaesthetic symphony of abstract visuals and pulsing soundscapes with Microsoft's Kinect in the dazzlingChild of Eden.Electronic Arts, meanwhile, showcased a handful of muscular, imposing shooters includingCrysis 2,BulletstormandMedal of Honor, though its cross-game Gun Club reward scheme was a faintly embarrassing reminder that even as the technology matures, gaming's mindset is often stuck  within the realms of the&nbsp;adolescent.
Sad KeanuA paparazzi picture of Keanu Reeves sitting on an inner-city bench, eating a sandwich and looking rather forlorn has kicked off a huge meme of people repurposing the photo with the usual hilarious consequences. Thus we have the star of The Matrix partaking in lunch with Winston Churchill, shrunk on to the palm of Green Day's Billie Joe Armstrong, surrounded by cats and, still seated on his bench, transported to the 1969 moon landing. Elsewhere alongside the Photoshop tomfoolery the trend has spawned anoutpouring of anecdotes, recounting Keanu's many random acts of human kindness. The man really is a most excellent dude.Must Read SoccerIn the unlikely event that you're not sated bythe Guardian's coverageor the time spent watching three live games a day for the duration of the World Cup, this site is worthy of a bookmark. Aggregating news and opinion from around the globe, it offers up a few unusual perspectives on the beautiful game: from Team USA's dietary regime to Belgium's hatred of France to anticipation of the tournament from a refugee camp in Port-au-Prince. Alongside all the skilful compiling of more interesting footy stuff, there's also the commentary-cum-poetry of Ray Hudson and the outing of pretentious reporting.Blog roll: Star WarsStar Wars: The Old RepublicEnjoying the new Adidas Star Wars Cantina ad, Imperial Walker beds and the ultimate R2D2 college prank.Darth HaterThe politics of the Hutts, a Star Wars bestiary and deciding whether or not the Sith are actually evil.Star Wars InterviewsEveryone from Anthony Daniels to the man inside Twiki the Ewok.The Official Star Wars BlogLucasfilms keeps you abreast of Star Wars mentions in pop culture.Dave ProwseThe original dark lord (and Green Cross Code Man) on his campaign for a statue in Bristol.What we learned on the web this weekHow Tom Cruise has embraced ridiculousnessWhat Facebook will be up to 50 years from nowThe hilarity of poorly translated subtitlesThe deep V and other trends men wear that women hateHow to become a better person according to Stephen FryHidden 1950s posters at Notting Hill Gate tube stationA synthesizer changed the worldTarvuism is the world's fastest growing religionThe strange case of the recurring prop newspaper
Audi R8 SpyderPrice£111,995Top speed194mphAcceleration0-62mph in 4.1 secondsAverage consumption22.1mpgCO2 emissions356g/kmEco rating0.5Bound forHomeIn a wordImprobableThere are all manner of ways of dividing high-performance cars, not least between coupés and convertibles. But I'd say a more important distinction is that between the plausible and the implausible.Take, for example, aPorsche 911. Whatever one might think of the car – let's face it, few of us would moan if we woke up to find we owned one – it's a legitimate vehicle to drive. You might inspire envy or even loathing in your neighbours, but no one would question the fact that Porsche 911s are free to roam the streets.Then there are the likes of, say, theLamborghini Gallardo, which simply provoke disbelief. People look at it and think, "Really?" Then they hear the engine and think, "Doesn't that contravene aircraft-noise legislation?"Somewhere between the two sits the much-awaited Audi R8 Spyder, for which there is apparently a lengthy waiting list. It's an adaptation of a coupé, but an unusually fine adaptation. The roof has been lopped off, but without most of the deleterious effects that tend to mark such conversions, aside from a bit more weight and a bit less space.But it looks fab without a top, especially in profile. The side vents and slightly raised rear section lend the shape a supercharged purpose, while the front is more classic Audi. The combined effect is what you'd expect: a very classy sports car.However, it's also rather wide and substantial. And if the sound of the V10 engine is thrilling, it's in a similar way, I imagine, that the sound of heavy artillery is thrilling. It's certainly not a noise you could ever expect to fade into the background.In other words, it's just as well that it can shift, because you begin to feel a pressing urgency to escape the fluttering curtains. That's fine if you live on a street that opens on to an autobahn, but if, like me, you're in a city, it's almost tiresome manoeuvring the bulky little beast out to somewhere you can begin to make its movement correspond more appropriately to its sound.Indeed, every journey that doesn't go via a motorway seems wasted. So&nbsp;you do find yourself on the M1, even though you only popped out for a pint of milk, and… what?… I&nbsp;can't hear… the roof's down… and&nbsp;so's my foot… and… whoah… Jesus, is that the speed?I can't remember when my hand last had as much fun as it did shifting the R8's gearstick through its metal gate holder. But don't get carried away. There's barely enough storage space (located under the bonnet) for a pair of knickers and a toothbrush. That's why you have to drive fast in the R8. Because when you get to wherever it is you're going, you've got to go back home. Unless a change of underwear is all you need.
Trying to find your way through the thicket of iPhone 4 pricing? Don't worry - there are people who have put it all together on a spreadsheet. And through the magic of Google Docs's sharing feature, plus a bit of wrangling with a (desktop) spreadsheet, we can show you the ones to go for and the ones to avoid.The above chart - click for the much larger version - is a visualisation of theterrific spreadsheetput together byJamie Edwards, operations manager for Kayako.Among the useful stuff that Edwards has calculated are the "talk time value index", which compares the TCO (total cost of ownership) over the life with the amount of talk time that you get. Though arguably, what it could also do with is a "data download value index", given the importance of data to the whole rationale for owning an iPhone. (I'm doing that on a copy of the spreadsheet...)A few caveats: the O2 Simplicity price is only for 12 months;Vodafone has not officially released its figuresUpdate:Vodafone has released its figures, and these ones are correct - though it also has another price range, of £60 per month.; 3 has not announced its pricing; T-Mobile has not announced its pricing; Tesco has not announced its pricing. That means that the graph above will be out of date fairly soon.In the meantime, though, it looks as though the O2 Simplicity tariff on the SIM-free version is a good bet, at least price-wise: it'll take you up to next year's upgrade, and you might even be able to sell the phone for a decent amount. Because you haven't forgotten thelesson from the Oatmeal about buying Apple stuff, have you?
Hype is a wonderful thing: it can keep campaigns of all sorts afloat. But sometimes it just yearns to be punctured. One claim that looks very suspiciously like raw hype is that on the front of the MMORPG game Evony's front page, where it claimed - a few months ago - that "Evony: Age II is played by 20 million players in over 167 countries."Besides the fact that Evony: Age II was only launched in April, so that would be some helluva lot of growth, you've got to love that "over 167 countries", give that there are reckoned to be 195 countries on earth. So we asked Triple Point PR, Evony's PR company in the US, and Benjamin Gifford, the "vice development director" (Evony's description) of Evony's legal and intellectual property strategic division, based in Australia, a simple question:In which countries is Evony [in whatever version] not played?That was back in April. No reply.We also asked about that fabulous "20 million players" number. The strange thing is that since April, the number of players seems to have gonedown: our screenshot taken today (main picture, above) shows that it's claiming only 18m players (though still in "over 167" countries). Look at the screenshots - we fortuitously took one on 12 April, and you can clearly see the difference. (Interesting that if you look at the notifications - the hyperlinks on the light brown part of the screen - there doesn't seem to have been anything much since April.)Evony.com screenshot on 12 April 2010: here it claims 20m players. Where did the other 2m go? And were they ever real?Here's the screenshot we took on 12 April.(Click here for larger version.)(Note that the dates on the brown panel are in American MM-DD-YYYY format - not UK DD-MM-YYYY format.)Even so, this is still contradictory, because in an email to the Guardian on 8 April, Gifford told the Guardian "both Evony, LLC and Regan Mercantile, LLC hope attention will turn to the game that 16 million people have enjoyed."So that's a sudden addition of 4m players in the course of four days, followed by a dropoff of 2m. What on earth is going on? Where have all the "players" gone? More to the point, were they ever there?Bruce Everiss, who was the victor when Evony tried to sue him for libel - except thatGifford's testimony was torn apart in the courtin a way that would make Perry Mason whistle appreciatively - is quite clear that the 18m (or 20m or 16m) number is just a bit of inflation:"The Evony figure for players is for all the people who have ever registered for the game," he told us by email. "The overwhelming majority register, see that it has no breasts, then leave." (A reference toEvony's infamous web advertising campaign of mid-2009.) "Very many players have multiple registrations which confer great advantage when playing the game," Everiss notes. "Evony have regular purges and kick large numbers of people off the game for "cheating". ie using bots, scripts etc."'Twas ever thus on server-based MMORPGs, of course. Another former Evony player - who we'll call "Thor" because, well, why not? - told us how he came up with an estimate for the number of players:"In my estimation, Evony has probably has a maximum of a half-million to million active players. They have approximately 200 "worlds" [aka servers], and each world has between 8000 to 25000 accounts. Of those, only 300-500 show any activity on a regular basis (daily or weekly change in prestige totals - prestige increases anytime you make troops or build something in the game)."Thor explained that Evony cleans out "inactive" accounts every so often, which is why the number of players on the servers can fall: "An inactive is defined as someone who hasn't logged on for 30+ days and has never paid Evony money to buy game coins."But there's inactive and there's "inactive": "If you paid,ever, your account is never wiped, even if you haven't logged in for 6 or more months," Thor explains.Thor made an estimate of the number of active players by logging into the servers then operated (around 200 - except some were merged servers, because there were too few players on an individual server to get any, you know, war action/payment going: "the reason Evony merges servers is the player rate on servers starts to drop so low it is virtually impossible to support active gameplay with players attacking back and forth. Prior to themerge of our server, it wasn't uncommon for me to go weeks without someone attacking me (or vice-versa) and I'd either have to 'port a war-city around the grid to find targets, or have insanely huge army march distances measured in hundreds of miles to an active target") and counting the clearly active players.So any number of servers for the game that Evony claims to have should be taken with a pinch of salt, because old server numbers aren't retired.Thor gave it up when Evony began cracking down on bots: "I actively botted to support the insanely huge army sizes necessary to compete. As a professional with a mortgage, kids, a dog and a cat, I didn't have time to sit there and manually 'farm' for food."Everiss suggested to us independently that Evony has up to a million players - some way short of that "16m/18m/20m" figure, and if there were a web Advertising Standards Authority, you could probably take Evony to them over that "played by" quote. Though you'd likely have already taken them there for the adverts' unfounded implication that there was somehow something errr, sexy in the game, whereas in reality it's a grind where you're required to pay money whichgets passed to a Hong Kong company connected with one in the tax and corporate secrecy haven of the Marshall Islands.Probably not a problem for younger players, but the question is whether the rewards are really there - and whether Evony can get out of what looks awfully like a corporate habit of inaccuracy in its claims.For the record, we put these questions to Gifford and Triple Point PR in April but received no response:1) given that Evony:Age II has only just been launched, is this simply carrying over players from the previous version of Evony?2) what does "played by 20m players" actually mean? Does that mean-there are 20m human players actively playing the game? or-there have been 20m accounts registered in the lifetime of Evony? or-Evony has made up a nice big-sounding number to put on its website? or-some other explanation (we'd love to hear it)?3) How many humans (different accounts, different people - as I take it that a single person can have more than one account) actively played Evony in the course of the past month?4) How does Evony prevent bots from playing? I understand that there was a sweep which removed bot accounts last year. How many accounts were removed in that way?5) I understand that Evony removes inactive accounts which have never spent any money in the game. How many accounts have been removed for that reason in the life of the game?6) I understand that Evony retains accounts that have spent money, even if they remain inactive. How many such accounts which have spent money have not been active for three months (90 days) or more?7) What is the largest number of humans (not bots) who simultaneously played Evony at any time? When was that?8) The website says Evony is played in "over 167 countries". As there are generally agreed to be 195 countries on Earth, in which countries is Evony [in whatever version] not played?Obviously, if anyone from Evony or Triple Point PR wants to answer, the comments are open.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
When Valve cancelled its Portal 2 press conference a week before E3, fans felt they'd be kept waiting a while longer for news of the eagerly awaited sequel. But then Gabe Newell stepped onto the stage at the Sony event and declared that the game was definitely coming. He then surprised vast sections of the gaming community by adding that the best version would be on PS3.Showing in a small demo area along a corridor of characterless meeting rooms, Portal 2 looks to be a fascinating continuation of Valve's hugely innovative emergent puzzler.  "The thing about Portal that we felt was most successful was the surprise that we gave to people," says Valve project manager Eric Johnson. "It wasn't inherently about portals or anything else, it was about people feeling that this was a different kind of game and made them think about games in a different way. So the challenge for us was to re-surprise people, which is pretty terrifying for a developer!"The player once again takes on the role of Chell, who returns to the Aperture lab to find the place battered, overgrown with foliage and seemingly derelict since her defeat of the malevolent computer system, GlaDOS. In one sequence that Johnson shows off, we see GlaDOS busily repairing the environment, with stained, broken wall panels flipping over to reveal pristine white ones, while robot arms build new sections. It seems the determined AI wants to test you all over again. "It's been a long time," she says in that distinctive Auto-Tune twang. "I think we can put our differences behind us. For science. You monster." Surely a contender for best in-game quote of the show (second only to Bulletstorm's "You almost scared my dick off!")Exploring the facility, Chell stumbles across the first of the game's new characters, a robotic 'personality sphere' named Wheatley, who's trapped in the lab and wants to help you escape. For some brilliant reason, Valve has given this football-sized droid a world-weary British accent. Someone told me it's a stand-in voice provided by one of the company's employees, but I like to think it's a homage to the original Holly in Red Dwarf. Whatever the case, he asks to be plugged in to a data port so he can download some information ("I can't do it if you're watching," he complains). Wheatley then leads Chell into a secret area, where they encounter GlaDOS. And the challenge is on.Johnson explains that the increased size of Portal 2 (the game is twice as large as its diminutive predecessor), means that the team has been able to add a new range of tools to work alongside the portal gun. The Excursion Funnel is a tractor beam that can move objects, enemies or Chell, though any space. Players can use them to create new paths through levels, or to manipulate and remove items in various useful ways. Then there's the Aerial Faith Plate, a metal slab that propels the player into the sky when landed on, and the Thermal Discouragement Beam, a deadly laser that can be angled through mirrored cubes to burn up and destroy sentry droids, "Ow, it burns" they declare in their musical synthesised voices. The Pneumatic Diversity Vent, meanwhile, is a vacuum tube that sucks up robots. It seems that, if used cleverly in conjunction with well-placed portals, you can suck up dozens of bots and deposit them where you fancy.The game will also include two new substances to change the properties of tiles in the game. Repulsion gel works like a trampoline when fired all over a surface allowing you to bounce long distances, while propulsion gel makes surfaces super slippy allowing Chell to build up immense speed – another useful way to clear long jumps. Johnson also demos a section where you need to flood a whole room with this viscous orange substance in order to accelerate through a series of spiky crushers.It's going to be fun to start combining these, but Johnson is keen to point out that the rudimentary gameplay remains the same: "The challenge for us is making sure we're not making a game that's a lot more difficult or that requires different skills than the Portal player generally has. We still want it to be a game where you think your way through particular parts of the level, and feel really smart when you solve it. And the game is a lot bigger, which gives us more time to introduce more things than just two portals. It seems to be testing pretty well…"Perhaps the most intriguing addition, however, is the two-player co-op, which can be enjoyed in split screen or online. Friends will be able to test the game together, combining problem-solving approaches in a series of dedicated puzzle levels, which are apparently very different from the single-player stages. They're also more difficult, perhaps to test the 'two heads are better than one' maxim: "We've heard that Portal was played as a co-op game for a lot of people. Mum would watch her kids play, or two friends would think their way through the game, now that's built into the game."So, twice as much Portal, with loads of new tools, the same great music and playful sense of humour, AND co-op? Yep, Valve's job at E3 is done.Portal 2 is out on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 'sometime' in 2011.
Hermen Hulst, the managing director of Guerrilla, made an interesting admission at the beginning of his Killzone 3 demo. He said that shortly after completing the previous instalment in the shooter series, the studio got to see two other titles from Sony's stable – Uncharted 2 and God of War 3. "We were proud of our game, but we realised we had to step it up." And at E3, we're getting a first glimpse at the results.Set immediately after the events of Killzone 2, The Helghast leader emperor Visari is dead, but this has only opened up an almighty power struggle between his ambitious generals. Now there is corruption and confrontation everywhere, and the ISA troops find themselves fighting for survival in the immediate aftermath of their decidedly pyrrhic victory. What they'll face is a revitalised Helghast force, with new tech and new weapons. And this coming asymmetric war will apparently take place amid massive new areas of the Helghan homeworld from jungles to frozen wastelands. According to Hulst, levels are ten times larger in this game, than they were in the last.The demo we see is a huge chunk of level four, where players are beginning to encounter a range of new Helghast technology. It's a massive industrial base, in an arctic hellhole, littered with derelict oilrigs and hulking cranes bunched together amid the swirling skies. The look is typical Killzone: cold, rusted, inhospitable, mechanical. And the action – which kicks off as soon as we're in – is familiar too. Machine gun fire rips by the player as he takes out first an enemy emplacement and then a Helghast aircraft with well-aimed grenades. The chopper swirls uselessly in the air, then explodes into a building – a special effects sequence that would have Michael Bay leering in admiration.From here, what Guerrilla is promising is a more open design structure, the larger levels allowing for multiple routes  through the environment, with plenty of set-piece choke points on the way. Although the visual style is extremely familiar (the industrial look, and the muted cold colours, are hugely reminiscent of the Killzone 2 environs), the detail and interaction with environments seems to have been increased. At one point, we're attacking a Helghast rig in armoured aircraft, strafing the decks with mini-gun fore that brings gargantuan pipe system crashing to the icy ground.But alongside these epic moments of long distance warfare, Killzone 3 is also bringing in a new emphasis on close quarters fighting. The team has introduced a self-explanatory new mechanic, named 'the brutal melee system', which allows players to punch and kick Helghast enemies to the ground, or smash them with a rifle butt. When they're down, it's another rifle jab to the face,. This is a highly physical reflection of the game's chunky, brutish weapon handling and looks to fit perfectly into the pitiless Killzone universe.I got a quick hands-on with the game, taking a few bloody strides into level four. Kicking off, I was in a gunship, blasting that rig apart and watching the Helghast troops run for cover. On the ground, things are as they have always been; it's about deadly firefights, picking your way through cover and being absolutely accurate every time you chance your head above cover. This is furious, relentless hardcore FPS action, with beautifully tuned weapon feedback. I also got to see a couple of Helghast jet pack troopers, who wear huge flying suits with broad wings, like metallic harpies, blasting you from above. (Apparently, players get a chance to pilot these bad boys at some point.)Playing in 3D is an interesting experience. All the stuff we're told about the technology, that it helps players to judge depth, and to pick out targets, has an element of truth to it. When standing on a ridge at one point, looking out over a Helghast base, I could pick out the merest pixels of solders, lurking amid metal crates and other military detritus. Oh and the blood effects when you're hit are fantastically gruesome, appearing to smear semi-transparently across your vision; you almost want to wipe the stuff off your 3D lenses.As for multiplayer Hulst promises new game modes and a more accessible matchmaking system making it easier for payers to find and play against their friends.So, is this Killzone 2 write large?Judging from our very small sampler, there's little so far to convert ardent non-fans. It would have been great to see an environment totally at odds with the Killzone 2 experience, and it's certainly what we're being promised – indeed, Hulst says the finale of the game is going to take us way out into space, a fascinating proposition. But regardless of scenery, Killzone 3 already has a solidity, a grasp on modern graphical effects and a rampant pleasure in destruction that's undeniably and viciously compelling.
In a curious bubble-like booth set within Microsoft's vast E3 enclave, I finally got the chance to experience what the corporation believes is the future of gaming. Previously known under the codename Natal,Kinectis a totally hands-free control system, using an array of cameras and sensors to track player movements in 3D space and convert them into game actions. This technology, launching in the winter (when it will directly compete with Sony's PlayStation Move device) is at the centre of the Xbox universe this year, and as with the newly announced Nintendo 3DS, it's something that can only be appreciated by trying it out.First up, I played Kinect Joy Ride, a knockabout driving game that nods toward the Mario Kart end of the genre spectrum. Standing in front of a large TV with my hands clutching an imaginary steering wheel felt slightly preposterous – until the race actually began. To me surprise vehicle responsiveness is reasonably accurate; I was able to subtly nudge other cars out of my way as well as target the apex of a corner before thrusting my hips left or right to add drift into the bend. There were only a couple of occasions where I slightly over-reacted to a clash with another vehicle, and my car edged off the road, but most of the time, I felt more-or-less in control – and as this is meant as a family diversion and not a Gran Turismo 5 beater, I'm okay with that.For much of the game there's no accelerator – as in most mobile driving titles, it's an automatic system. However. throughout the race, successful drifting on corners charges your boost bar, which is ignited by thrusting your arms out then pulling them back in again, giving you a massive jolt of speed. Even in this turbo mode I was able to navigate corners while my imaginary steering wheel continually changed in size and shape as my arms flailed. The tracks also feature huge ramps which send your car soaring into the air – you can then sway backwards or forwards, or the left or right, to pull off tricks and spins. I just couldn't get the hang of this though, and failed to pull off a single special move. I'd like to bale the hardware, but I can't be entirely certain.Joy Ride is by no means a deep driving experience, but it's amusing, especially with another player at your side (in fact, I'd go as far as to sayexclusivelywith a player by yourside). In this situation, the game almost becomes a physical competition, the two of you jostling for living room space as well as the onscreen racing line.Next we tried Kinect Sports, which features a selection of activities from boxing to beach volleyball. I tried the hurdles first, which requires you to run on the spot, then jump into the air at the right time before each set of barriers. After a day of pacing the E3 show floor, it was exhausting stuff, especially as the game demands that you perform a clear, reasonably lofty jump, not just a slightly heightened running step. But again, there were laughs aplenty. And brilliantly, during the action, the Kinect camera sneakily takes a few seconds of video footage, showing it back to you at the close of the race. It's not usually that pretty…Finally, I played the ten pin bowling game. At the start your onscreen avatar simply stands at the end of the lane waiting for your movements. It's here I got my first experience of a character that mimics your every move; you can wave your arms about and almost instantaneously, your athlete does the same. It's just such a weird moment, like the first time you ever picked up a controller as a kid and realised the buttons affected what was happening on the TV screen.Several of journalists I spoke to also said the same about Ubisoft'sYour Shape, which puts an accurate, completely reactive representation of your own body onscreen. Whatever else you may think about Kinect, and I've not seen anywhere near enough to make an accurate judgement (or yet sampled PlayStation Home), this symbiosis between gamer and avatar feels like a defining moment in mainstream video game technology.The game itself is basic bowling fun. You physically reach for a ball, pick it up and then send it hurtling down the lane with the appropriate bowling movement. To aid in aiming there's a series of blue markers halfway down the lane which show where your ball is likely to head, but you can apparently also add spin by slightly curving your bowling action.I was desperate to see the more meaty Kinect Adventures, but our time was up and I was ushered from the cocoon-like demo pod. I'm still not convinced by the vision some have of a totally controller-free future. These were simple intuitive party games, mostly designed to flatter the physical abilities of the family audience. There's a whole world of gaming out there – the first person shooter, the complex fighting game – that would cease to exist in current forms, in a universe like that.But what fun. And even navigating the game menu, which involves guiding a white circle around the screen with hand gestures then holding it over an option icon for a few seconds, felt subtly rewarding. It's easy to debate lag, to debate the amount of processing power that Kinect compatibility takes up, to debate the range of games available, but against that is a simple proposition: sometimes jumping over imaginary hurdles in your living room is captivating entertainment. As long as your legs hold out.
Cuneiform clay tablet at the David H. Koch Hall of Human Origins at the Smithsonian Natural History Museum. Photo byRyan Sommaon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFacebook's Likable Little Comments Could Be a Big Deal &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebYou can now "like" comments on Facebook: "Imagine the addition of "people whose comments you liked" as a metric by which to measure future content for prioritization or other analysis."&#10;&#10;Couldn't you just "friend" people as a shortcut?Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg Is Embracing the End of Email, Here's Why &gt;&gt; Fast Company""If you want to know what people like us will do tomorrow, you look at what teenagers are doing today," Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg told the audience at Nielsen's Consumer 360 conference yesterday. And according to Sandberg, only 11% of teens email daily--clearly, a huge generational drop. Instead, they are increasingly turning to SMS (or Twitter) and social networks for communication.&#10;&#10;"E-mail--I can't imagine life without it--is probably going away," she said. "&#10;&#10;But what happens when those teens get jobs in a corporate environment where email is embedded in processes...?Forrester Projects Tablets Will Outsell Netbooks By 2012, Desktops By 2013 &gt;&gt; TechCrunchOr as analyst Michael Gartenberg (not with Forrester) put it, "apples will outsell oranges by 2013". Desktop sales are already falling as a proportion. Not too sure about this one though.4chan is hacking the attention economy &gt;&gt; danah boyd"I would argue that 4chan is ground zero of a new generation of hackers – those who are bent on hacking the attention economy. While the security hackers were attacking the security economy at the center of power and authority in the pre-web days, these attention hackers are highlighting how manipulatable information flows are. They are showing that Top 100 lists can be gamed and that entertaining content can reach mass popularity without having any commercial intentions (regardless of whether or not someone decided to commercialize it on the other side)."October 1999: Excite@Home Buys Blue Mountain Arts for $780 Million &gt;&gt; InternetNews.comActually, that does trump AOL's purchase of Bebo. Honestly, Blue Mountain Arts made &lt;em&gt;e-greeting cards&lt;/em&gt;. Excite handed over $350m in cash. &#10;&#10;Possibly there was something in the water back then.What it's like to own an Apple product &gt;&gt; The OatmealSpot on, as with all Oatmeal.Why You'll Want a Windows Phone &gt;&gt; Ben.geek.nz"Windows Phone nails convergence. Facebook, Twitter, Windows Live, Gmail, Outlook. Just bung your account details into the device, and watch in awe as everything is conglobulated into a seamless experience."&#10;&#10;Conglobulated?Welcome to the London Datastore &gt;&gt; London DataStoreIf you haven't already got this in your bookmarks, you should - it's turning out some useful data for those wanting to generate mashups.IE8's "improved" dialog box on mixed content which isn't &gt;&gt; MSDN blogsThe problem is that the dialog is confusing, and it offers "Yes/No/More" options. Dialog buttons should have verbs, and the dialog text should explain what happens with each choice.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
O2 has announced the pricing for itsiPhone 4 handsets- and seems to be trying to push people away from buying longer-term contracts.Under the 24-month contracts, the phones are more expensive than the 18-month contracts, by between £70 (for the white 16GB version priced at £209 for 18 months, or £279 for 24 months) and £24 (for the black 32GB version, costing £299 for 18 months and £323 for 24 months). Even though the price plans at that tariff differ by £5 per month, over 18 months the 16GB handset works out cheaper on the lowest tariff by £10.Pricing plans for Vodafone's iPhone 4 leaked out earlier this week, although the company has not formally announced them and is only letting people indicate interest in ordering it.Orange's chargesstart at £169 for a 16GB phone on a £30-per month 24-month contract (£229 on £30 for 18 months)O2's pricing decision has puzzled people on Twitter: "O2 seems to have forgotten the idea is to lure people onto longer contract by *lowering* upfront costs. Duh.,"commentedjournalist Scott Colvey.The decision - tied toO2's decision to introduce strict caps on data downloadsper month, varying between 500MB and 1GB, replacing its previous "unlimited" data contracts that many are still using - may mean a migration of former iPhone customers away from the company, which until last Christmas had the monopoly on iPhone sales in the UK. Now the phone is sold by Orange, Vodafone and 3 - though only Orange and Vodafone have announced prices.Many iPhone owners who bought the second-generation iPhone in 2008 on 18- or 24-month contracts will be eligible to upgrade with O2 - or possibly to shift to another carrier.Apple has apologised to would-be customers afteroverwhelming demand meant that its own and AT&amp;T's servers crashed when the phone went on sale in five countries on Tuesday. It says that 600,000 phones were ordered on the day - which suggests that it has tapped into huge pent-up demand from owners of older versions, as well as new buyers seeking to join the smartphone bandwagon.
AOL has confirmed the sale of Bebo to new owners Criterion Capital Partners, which argues that the young user base and revenue history continue to make the business an "attractive media platform".Details of the deal were not disclosed –it has been rumoured that Bebo may have been sold for $10m or less– although AOL admitted that "the transaction will create a meaningful tax deduction". AOL needed to structure the deal to avoid being hit by massive corporate tax charges after paying $850m for Bebojust over two years ago.Adam Levin, the managing partner at CCP who led the deal, said that Bebo remained attractive as both a "standalone entity and in the context of our broader investment objectives"."The young, highly active user base, revenue history, presence in countries throughout the world and solid technical infrastructure make it an attractive media platform both as a standalone entity and in the context of our broader investment objectives," he said.Tim Armstrong, chairman and chief executive of AOL, said that the deal meant that Bebo users would be able to "remain within the social platform that they know and love"."Criterion Capital Partners are specialists in facilitating growth plans and turnarounds, and are well placed to drive Bebo's effort to strengthen its foothold within the highly competitive social networking arena," said Armstrong.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Yes, of course it had to happen – and of course a Briton has written the dialogue: the inevitably Hitler Downfall parody (no, theyhaven't all been killed off) about thosedamndelightfulvuvuzelas that so add to the atmosphere at the World Cup and have audiologists all over South Africa's cities rubbing their hands at the hearing aids they're going to be selling in 20 years' time.For – we take up the story – Hitler is looking forward to Germany's onward march to the World Cup final, where it will meet Brazil, of course, with all their lovely drums and singing. What? What's that? Fifa hasn't banned the vuvuzela? And off we go..."Stay. If you have a vuvuzela.""Are you insane? Ruining the World Cup with a plastic bloody horn?""There are over 300 million people like me watching in their slippers at home suffering through 90 minutes of tuneless droning trumpet."Written byKen McHardie, who describes himself as a "Sometime filmmaker, photographer, IT Consultant &amp; Technical Author (the bit that pays)" from St Albans (can you imagine any other nation than Britain using "slippers" in that above sentence? No), we have to say – nice one Ken.
Followingthe announcement of Nintendo's 3DS, new version of its popular a handheld games console that boasts 3D visuals without the need for special glasses, response among the tech press has suggested that we could have a "game-changer" on our hands."Nintendo had its Apple moment today" declaredForbes.com, "the 3DS looks simply amazing." Describing the device as a "clear evolutionary step past the DS",Engadgetfelt that Nintendo's offering provided "something in a handheld that will take years to really catch on with our big people consoles in the living room."Gizmodosees a new benchmark being set for all handhelds: "Just as Nintendo changed the industry with the imperfect but watershed Wiimote, they've undeniably done the same with the 3DS. Holding a 3D display without any stupid glasses is what we'll all be doing soon, whether we buy the 3DS or not."While many demonstrations consisted principally of unplayable (but not pre-rendered) game footage, the visuals impressed many in attendance. "The graphics, which are much more advanced than you'd expect from Nintendo, left me pretty much in disbelief," saidWired.Übergizmosaid the quality of the display was "a very good surprise" and while the level of quality was not uniform, "with the right content, oh boy, this is good. Some characters come to life, and 'pop'." In particular the visual demo of Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eaterwas described as "delicious" by IGN."You can almost feel the dog's paws resting against the screen",said Engadget referring to Nintendogs and Cats, one of the console's launch titles.An issue was raised over the angle required for viewing the 3D effect correctly. "Viewing from the side reveals the blurry, overlaying effect of the 3D screen"said Joystiq, although it was noted that a slider is available to adjust the effect. "There is, I learned, a 3D sweet-spot for the 3DS, a bubble in which the image is perfect and deep. Outside the bubble things go wrong,"stated Kotaku.CrunchGeardid, however, describe a "surprisingly good viewing angle … about 30% on the vertical and horizontal axis".Kotaku reserved special praise for the device's 3D camera: "The ability to take a picture in 3D and then view it in 3D seconds later may sound like a gimmick. But it's the sort of gimmick that will require a hunt for your socks afterward. It's astounding."
Nobody at Konami is under any illusions: over the last two years, and after a decade at the top of the table, PES has lost its position of football sim dominance to FIFA. But the publisher, and its vast Pro Evolution development team (200 staff and counting) are determined that this 11th instalment will be the return to former glories. After a brief play with an early version, it certainly seems to be a sprightly step-over in the right direction.First up, the game system hasn't just been tweaked, it's been completely torn out and re-thought. AI support for the gamer is effectively gone. "In the past, before you even switched control to a defender, they'd be moving toward the attacking player," says European product manager, Jon Murphy. "This actually made them quite easy to beat if you were a good player. But that's not in there to assist you anymore."To bolster your defensive options, however, you now have the option to hold up the incoming play. If you run up to the attacking player, hit X, then turn away with the left stick, your defender blocks and tracks his opponent, edging backwards and refraining from going in for a tackle. "What you're doing is holding up the play and slowing down the game," says Murphy. "It's useful when dealing with really tricky players, when you don't want to commit yourself". It also sounds like a workable option for those many, many times I commit far too many players forward.There's also a much more open and flexible passing system (perhaps reflecting FIFA's 360 degree boast). Hit a short or long pass and the ball won't just automatically find its way to a team mate anymore – you need to direct the ball to them, or put it into space in front of them. Power is much more important, too; in previous editions, the gauge was hidden at the bottom of the screen and was often unused, now bars appear beneath the player with every kick of the ball, so weighting passes is as important as directing them.It's tricky at first: after years of experience with the didactic PES engine, I was sending balls all over the place, over-hitting them, or just bashing them well-wide of my intended target. "To a certain extent you have to relearn how to play the game," says Murphy. "You get into it pretty quickly, but occasionally you make errors where you're being a little bit lazy. You start to realise you've got to concentrate on everything you do. But it results in a realistic game of football."Indeed, even after a few minutes play, I was beginning to spot spaces ahead of players and aiming my passes into empty nooks and crannies. Apparently, it's even possible to direct a pass onto the specific foot of another player, simply by slightly angling the analogue pad. I also noticed a lightness to the ball; it's much more likely to bounce off a moving player, or get trapped under his feet if a pass is too strong. Again, it's more demanding, but it's going to be fun to master it, to learn how to move with more subtly and grace.But of course, football isn't all about subtly and grace (sorry Arsenal fans). Hence, the jostling system has been refined. In the past, there was physical interaction between players but it only minimally affected the man on the ball, who was often able to get in a cross despite being consistently elbowed. Now, there's much more physicality – players will stumble and trip, or lose balance and fall if they're nudged by a stronger opponent. There are also a greater number of tackling animations, bringing more graphical variety to the duels. Actually, animation is another area that's been decimated in the re-tuning process. 90% of all the animations have been changed, and the links between them have been edited to give higher response times.For the more experienced PES fanatic, this version brings in a wider selection of feints, tricks and turns. We see players sliding the ball under foot and chipping it onto their inside leg for a deceptive diversion. Importantly, different moves can now be chained together into fluid combos, allowing players to build their own repertoires of tricky manoeuvres.And this isn't just about showing off – according to Murphy, series creator Shingo 'Seabass' Takatsuka sees one-on-one situations as key moments in the sport, and wants them to become truly tactical experiences in his game. The ability to string together turns, flicks and step-overs is to become a vital weapon for experienced players. Konami has structured this element with two options: L1 provides access to 'feint sets', which are pre-set selections of moves edited by the player, while L2 gives regular feints, which can be further modified with analogue stick movement. Oh and double clicking L3 brings in tricky flicks like rainbows and flip-flaps, if you're into that kind of thing.Finally, a couple of management options. With the revised manual team set-up option, you can simply drag player icons around a pitch diagram to place your players – you don't have to rely on the dozens of pre-set formations usually offered in PES titles. I also like the sound of the 'reactive management settings', which let you pre-choose tactical switches for a range of match scenarios. Before the game starts, for example, you might want to set it so that your players adopt a defensive formation if they're winning the game at 70 minutes. It's a little feature, but it means you can get the strategy stuff out of the way before the match even starts and instead concentrate on passing the ball properly…So one match in, and PES 11 feels to me like a huge improvement over the previous two or three iterations. It has a nice loose feel, the player models are sharp, detailed and solid, and there's a real sense that you're very much in control. I was certainly deeply reluctant to hand the controller back when my allotted time with the demo was over. It seems that the many Gamesblog readers who've kept faith with the series – and the ever-competitive Chatterbox PES league is testament to that – might be about to reap the rewards of their loyalty.
AOL isset to offload the failing social networking site Beboto a US turnaround expert at a "fire sale" price potentially below $10m.AOL, whichacquired the struggling site just over two years ago for $850m, is expected to announce the fate of Bebo today or tomorrow.The suitor that has emerged is US private investment firm Criterion Capital Partners which specialises in turning around companies with revenue between $3m and $30m.In the UK Bebo plunged into the red last year as post-tax profits fell 143% to the end of May 2009.The price tag that has been put on the deal is somewhere between $2.5m and $10m,according to a report. That is a fraction of the price Anglo-American founders Michael and Xochi Birch received from AOL when they sold it to AOL. They reportedly owned around 70% of the firm at the time of the takeover.The Wall Street Journalcited one sourceas saying the exact figure was "an exceptionally uninspiring number" with almost total "value destruction".AOL refused to comment on the price but said the deal would create a "meaningful tax deduction" – implying a big loss on the disposal.AOL chief executive Tim Armstrong said: "The deal will allow Bebo's users to remain within the social platform that they know and love, while enabling a new owner to bring new possibilities and experiences to bear."Bebo, which launched in 2005, was a success in the UK but flopped in the US against competition from Facebook. As of April, San Francisco-based Bebo had 12.6 million unique users, of which 4.4 million were in the UK. UK users were responsible for generating well over half of the social networking site's 1.9 billion page impressions a month.Analysts were somewhat surprised that AOL has found a buyer because they believed Bebo would require large investment to rejuvenate and because it only has a meaningful presence in the UK &amp; Ireland.Ovum principal analyst Eden Zoller said there had seemed little chance of AOL finding a buyer until now."Bebo has a shrinking member base, a brand that no longer resonates and what looks to be a fairly mediocre platform given the lack of investment and pretty non-existent developer community," said Zoller. "It also has an uneven geographic footprint and is not making any money, although ... few social networks are."AOL, whichsaid in April that it wanted to either sell or shut Bebo, completed a strategic review of the website last month.Some observersthought AOL would opt for the latter optionbecause complicated corporate tax rules would allow the company to write off the full purchase price. It is thought that AOL's sale has been structured to allow it to still be able to write off the purchase in some way to save the company a significant amount in corporate taxes.In the most recent quarter, AOL's revenue dropped 23% to $664.3m, while advertising revenue fell by 19%.
It has been rumoured for a while, but there was a gleeful cheer when, during the Nintendo's Tuesday morning E3 press conference, Satoru Iwata announced that a new GoldenEye title is on the way to Wii. Published by Activision and created by British licensed game specialist, Eurocom, it's a fresh take on the N64 first-person shooter icon, with Daniel Craig on voice acting duties, but seemingly many of the same missions, remixed for the modern era.As veterans and Bond fans will know, the plot concerns renegade Russian general Arkady Ourumov, who's been stealing military equipment and selling it on the blackmarket. It's your role to stop him. As well as a huge variety of weapons, Bond will be able to call on an extended melee system, rather than just a slap in the chops. There's lots of destructibility, too, especially with cover, which gets gradually destroyed by bullet fire so players have to keep on moving. "We think that better represents Craig's Bond – the physical aspect, the sense of continuous movement," explains executive producer Julian Widdows.Yesterday afternoon, in a crowded Activision meeting room, I got to see the Russian dam stage of the game, in which Bond raids Arkady's military facility. Accompanied by 006, the player needs to quietly approach the entrance to a tunnel cut into a rocky mountain ridge. As in the original game's mission, the action opens with you quietly approaching a guard tower, vaulting over obstacles and climbing up ridges (now with a simple one-button interface), before ascending the ladder and taking out the sniper with a silenced pistol.From this position, you grab the sniper rifle and use the new heat-sensitive scope to take out other nearby targets. Then it's time to leap down, switch to an AK-47 and start legging it toward a truck that 006 has 'borrowed' from your felled enemies. You're then into a chase sequence as 006 crashes his way through the tunnel, busting into the sides of enemy vehicles as you kick out the windscreen and shoot them up. At one point, a soldier leaps onto our cab and tries to get in put a quick tap on the A button allows Bond to punch him away. When the truck gets totalled, you scuttle across the road, rappel down a cliff, run beneath a looming Russian helicopter and you're into the high tech control room that represents the end of the demo.Although there are plenty of additional sequences, and modernsised effects, the key game play change is a greater emphasis on player freedom. As Widdows explains, "Players have an enormous amount of choice, whether they take on an encounter covertly or go in all guns blazing. Or you can use Daniel Craig's physicality to take people out using melee moves. That element of choice has been extended to how the levels are designed. We thought it was really important to provide multiple paths through the environments; there are lots of little diversions and branches where you can take an alternative route."Naturally, there's an emphasis on multiplayer – the most groundbreaking element of the N64 title. The Wii game supports split-screen play for up to four people, and allows competitors to select from eight classic Bond characters, including Scaramanga, Oddjob, Jaws, Rosa Klebb, Red Grant and Dr No. There are also loads of hosting options, apparently making for around 200 different types of multiplayer contest. You'll get the chance to include proximity mines as in the N64 version, as well as options like pistols only. Unfortunately there's no 'slaps' only option, though you can opt for melee only, which is almost the same, but perhaps not as hilarious at three in the morning with three other slightly inebriated chums. Plus, there's online multiplayer with Conflict and Team Conflict modes, complete with a perks and unlockables framework to allow for Modern Warfare-style progression.Graphically, it looks to be a solid Wii title, with some decent explosion effects and destructible scenery. Oddly, with its slightly washed-out patina, it's gently reminiscent of the now dated original. I'm not sure if that's an intentional homage.GoldenEye, then, is an interesting endeavour and I'm desperate to try the multiplayer. But this time Bond carries the almost impossible weight of nostalgic expectation on his shoulders.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
There were two big draws on the Capcom stand as far as I was concerned: Dead Rising 2 and Marvel Vs Capcom 3. In the former, the plot now revolves around Chuck Greene, whose daughter has been infected with the zombification virus. Luckily, there's an antidote named Zombiex available, but it's in short supply and he's got to fight his way to it through the zombie-littered streets of gambling Mecca, Fortune City.Once again it's about charging through each stage, trying to make it to the exit point while battering the undead and saving the odd civilian or two en route. The key new element is the ability to build combo weapons by gaffer taping together different objects. Find a baseball bat and some nails, get them to one of the many workshops dotted around the game map, and you can create a studded club to bash zombies with. This is, apparently, the most common combo as there are lots of both items around the place. Other possibilities include attaching chainsaws to either end of an oar then running through crowds, obliterating the shuffling masses in your wake. You can add a car battery to a rake to make an electric cattle prod, or – my personal favourite – tape a pistol to a teddy bear to make a sentry gun. Throughout the game you discover 'combo cards' that provide you with tasty new recipes, but inventive players can just improvise with what's available.Combat is immensely and horribly satisfying. As in the first game, everything is a potential weapon and you can find yourself reaching the most unlikely objects in the heat of the moment. During an early section, set familiarly in a mall (it's a shame Capcom didn't give us a glimpse of a different venue), I was attacking the incoming undead with a coat hanger, jabbing it in their faces until my impromptu weapon got irretrievably stuck in a victim's eyehole. Brilliantly, you can dress up in any clothes you find, so I had a fun ten minutes hitting zombies with a handbag while wearing a gingham crop top.The visuals have been tweaked to make for even more gratuitous blood effects, and there are apparently stages where you'll get to meet crowds of up to 7000 of the living dead; as in Zack Snyder's Dawn of the Dead remake, you'll apparently be able to clamber into a truck and just drive straight through 'em.Sure, the control system is largely the same and the whole thing feels extremely familiar. But it'll be interesting to see how the two-player co-op mode changes the experience, and there's also online multiplayer to come. For now, despite masses of similarities with its predecessors, Dead Rising 2 is a hilarious romp into survival horror idiocy.Next stop,Marvel vs Capcom 3, arriving a tardy ten years after its Dreamcast antecedent. Once again it's a tag team battler of eye-popping proportions as players grab three characters each, then tag between them to inflict many flavours of hurt on their opponents. The control system has been nicely streamlined, relying on three buttons for hard, medium and weak attacks, together with a launcher button, that'll smack the other character into orbit, for some fun aerial combo action.It's a great system to experiment with, offering some reasonably accessible specials. I was playing against Capcom Europe's Street Fighter fanatic PR chap, Leo Tan, who informed me that most characters have a meaty move accessed by performing a quarter turn and hitting the three buttons in succession. Indeed it produced some lovely screen-splashing effects and bone-shattering impacts.Ten characters were available in the E3 demo. Apparently it's Dante that all the experienced players are going for, with his gun and hefty sword combo, but they all sport delicious specials. The Hulk rips up the ground and sends a force wave speeding toward unwary opponents; Chris Redfield pulls out a rocket launcher and blasts his enemies in the face. With Captain America, Iron Man and Wolverine all bringing up the rear, it's just a joyous fighting experience. And it's out on Xbox and PS3 next spring.The dark horse on the Capcom stand though, was Ghost trick: Phantom Detective, the latest puzzle adventure from Shu Takumi, the creator of the Ace Attorney series. Once again, you're searching down clues to solve murders, but this time you're a ghost that can possess certain useful objects as well as turn back time to minutes before the killer strikes to save their lives. The visual style is gorgeous super-stylised anime, and with a much darker approach to the mystery genre than Ace, it should bring in a whole new audience.
I'm looking to get a laptop for university. It needs to have a big enough screen for me to work on. A large memory would be a bonus so I can transfer my music and pictures to it. Weight is not really an issue as I will have it on my desk most of the time, it just needs to be portable from home to university. I was looking at a Dell as they are funky looking and practical. My dad has a Samsung netbook, which is excellent, but I definitely need something bigger.Phoebe WhitlockNetbooks are great at what they do: they are relatively cheap, very portable, and offer long battery life. However, if you are looking for what's basically a desktop replacement to run from the mains, a laptop has many advantages. These include a bigger keyboard and screen, a faster processor, a bigger hard drive for storing things, and a built in DVD/CD-Rom drive for making backups and playing movies.Almost every PC manufacturer offers laptops that will do the job for less than £500, including (in alphabetical order) Acer, Asus, Dell, HP, Samsung, Sony, and Toshiba. You can try most of them in high street stores, to see whether you like the feel of them. However, remember to Google your chosen model to see if it has been reviewed, and if it has any known problems.The base specification for a laptop costing £350 to £500 is, roughly, a 15.5 or 15.6 inch screen (1366 x 768 pixels), a 250GB or 320GB hard drive, 2GB to 4GB of memory, and Microsoft Windows 7 Home Premium. The latest models have new Intel Core i3 processors, while cheaper ones will have Intel Core 2 Duos or, further down the price scale, chips branded Pentium or Celeron.Cheap Core i3 laptops include the HP G62-105SA (£432 at amazon.co.uk) and Samsung R530 (£450). It's always good to have the latest processor, but I suspect you won't need anything more than a 2.2GHz Pentium Dual Core T4400.Dell now offers eight ranges of laptops. For consumers, Inspiron is the mainstream "value" brand, with the Studio range adding style and XPS adding performance. Dell also offers Alienware laptops for gamers, and Adamo advanced luxury models. (For business users, Dell has the entry-level Vostro, mainstream Latitude and performance oriented Precision ranges.) An Inspiron 15 with a 15.6 inch widescreen and a T4400 chip would cost you about £450, while a Studio 15 with a Core i3 costs about £530.You can, of course, pay more. The PC industry works by offering basic systems at low prices then "upselling" extra features. These include separate graphics cards (which are faster than Intel Integrated Graphics chips), bigger and sharper screens, larger hard drives, and Blu-ray movie players. Most are useful for entertainment purposes rather than essay writing.There are a few other things to consider.First, you need a backup strategy so that you never lose important work. You can do this by adding a USB thumb driver or external hard drive or buying a spindle of CD-R discs or signing up to an online service where you can store things. Many laptops now have SD card slots so you can copy essays straight to a tiny 2GB or 4GB card that you can keep somewhere safe.Second, consider your health. Generally, desktop PCs are more ergonomic and better for your back than crouching over a laptop. Some students therefore prefer to have a small desktop PC and a netbook, for much the same outlay, though the cables mean small desktops are not as easy to move around. Another solution is to stand the laptop on a "riser" and perhaps plug in a separateUSB keyboard. A riser will also help your laptop to stay cool.Third, laptops can be broken, lost or stolen, though you can use a system with a Kensington lock and fasten it to your desk. As mentioned, it's very important to have separate copies of your work, but you should also consider how long it would take to get your laptop repaired or replaced, and whether it is covered by insurance. If you depend on a system, it's worth considering next-business-day in-home service.
Hop picking, some time between 1926 and 1942. Photo byThe National Archives UKon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe National Archives Labs &gt;&gt; National ArchivesIt's not only Google which has labs. And the National Archives ones are rather cool.Microsoft meets reality as luddite scribes cover Office 2010 launch &gt;&gt; TechFlash"As I point out to Microsoft Business Division President Stephen Elop in the video above, many of the company's customers aren't yet on board with its vision for the present -- as evidenced by the reporters and bloggers scribbling on their notepads in front of him.&#10;&#10;"Not exactly what Microsoft had in mind when it unveiled the Tablet PC and its OneNote software toward the beginning of the last decade."How To Phish, Protect Your Email, and Defeat Copy-And-Paste with CSS &gt;&gt; Aza on DesignCSS isn't just for the good stuff. Though if you read the article in a feed reader, it may be rather confusing.Why Minority Report was spot on &gt;&gt;| The GuardianEight years after the film came out, we look at how correct it was. Compare...A look at the future technology of film Minority Report &gt;&gt; The Guardian...and contrast with this 2002 version, when the film had just come out.MPs Expenses Review &gt;&gt; Stuff.co.nzIf this looks familiar, it's because it's using a template like that used by the Guardian to review UK MPs' expenses. Get in!Nokia Slashes Second-Quarter Forecast on Weak Smartphone Performance &gt;&gt; John Paczkowski | Digital Daily | AllThingsDOr as the headline on the blog post puts it, "Losing the Smartphone War One Ugly Pink Handset at a Time". I simply cannot believe that that product got through any sort of testing on anything sentient.Adobe knocks Apple for serving up outdated Flash Player &gt;&gt; ComputerworldThe new 10.6.4 update has an old - buggy, vulnerable - version of Flash Player included; you should update.iPhone 4 price plans &gt;&gt; OrangeNote the clever use of * so that unlimited* actually means "limited". The asterisk serves like a mathematical function which negates the preposition.The Thick of IT &gt;&gt; ZDNet UKHow Rupert Goodwins got hold of the Cabinet Office email list: by accident. Someone else's. Cue Malcolm Tucker-ish imaginings, some redaction, and a shredder.About that 1 billion Microsoft Office figure ... &gt;&gt; ZDNetMaryJo Foley thinks: if Microsoft is saying that 1bn people rely on Office to get thing done at work, home and school, and if there's 1bn PCs out there, where's my copy?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Even if you don't consider yourself a gamer I can almost guarantee you've tried something made by Seattle-based  company PopCap. In fact, you probably spent longer with it than you'd intended. PopCap created thethree-in-a-row matching game Bejewelled,which has been played by an estimated 500 million people.It made Peggle– a pinball game I remember largely because I couldn't have a conversation with a friend on holiday until she'd finished it –and the compelling Bookworm.Co-founder Jason Kapalka says the combination of luck and skill makes  Bejewelled compulsive: "Luck obviously plays a huge role. It's not completely out of your control, but you don't feel you personally failed if you 'lose'. Games of chance are a big part of  human culture, but they've been under-represented in video games, probably because their DNA is tied so closely to the old arcade games, which were tests of skill."Kapalka says web-based games have to be very easy to learn: "You can't  afford a steep learning curve with casual games. If someone buys a $50 console game, they'll probably stick with it a few hours to learn its quirks. On a web page they need to be playing  and enjoying it in the first 60 seconds of gameplay."Last year,PopCap released Plants  vs Zombies, a hilarious strategy  game in which tough plants try to  defend a home against zombies. It  was shortlisted for a videogames Bafta –  extremely rare for a maker of non- console games – and is actually  funny (rarer still in the often po-faced gaming world). A study – not funded  by PopCap – has even shown that itsgames can improve cognitive functions. So we can play on, confident it's doing us some good – as long as there's someone around to  remind us if we need  to be somewhere.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column,Saturday 19 June 2010The article below flipped the order when it said Arnold Schwarzenegger first intoned "I'll be back" in The Running Man, before saying it in The Terminator. Running Man came out in 1987, after Terminator, released in 1984.Minority Report was not the first film to predict accurately what technology would look like in years to come. We asked readers to suggest the other films that best predicted our future.2001: A Space Odyssey (1968)Stanley Kubrick and Arthur C Clarke collaborated to create the film that is still, more than 40 years on, regarded as the finest cinematic exposition of realistic hard science. And even when the astronauts were just sitting eating, they were looking at video playing on iPad-like devices on their desktops. Masterful. Pity we missed their schedule – a crewed mission to Jupiter isn't on the cards this century.Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (2005; TV series, 1981)You could argue that author Douglas Adams foresaw the iPad (has nobody started making iPad covers with DON'T PANIC on them?) but what HHGTTG, as it's known, really foresaw was a resource that would be endlessly updated: that's surely Wikipedia, which was only five months old when Adams died prematurely. And, as Brendan Cooper points out, the series/ book/film also predicted the mobile web – though in this case, one which would work across galaxies (imagine the roaming charges).Fahrenheit 451 (1966)As Catinthegrass points out, the film of Ray Bradbury's book (about firemen whose job is to burn books) gave us a vision of a world of wall-mounted TV sets – and, arguably, a time when people don't read books, but instead get all their knowledge and entertainment purely from screens. With books heading  e-wards on to Kindles and iPads, can we be sure that the physical objects themselves will survive?Terminator (1984)The second film in which Arnold Schwarzenegger solemnly intoned "I'll be back" (the first was Running Man) features scenes in which you're looking through the eyes of the robot sent to kill someone from its past. That includes a form of "augmented reality" – overlaying the scene with extra information such as the names of people, distance away, and other information. Nowadays, you can get augmented reality apps on your Android phone or iPhone; it's even added to magazines (for you to view with a webcam). However, time travel, particularly for murderous robots, remains uninvented (as far as we know).Blade Runner (1982)As mike65ie points out, this included "retinal scanning" – looking at the pattern of blood vessels on the back of your eye (like your iris, a unique pattern). But it also included ideas such as creating organisms from artificial DNA (something just achieved by the US biologist Craig Venter). And despite the inevitable flying cars and interplanetary exodus from an exhausted Earth – so far not sighted – when Philip K Dick, who wrote the story (Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?) on which it was based, saw an early screening,  he turned to director Ridley Scott and said: "How did you know? It's just as I imagined it."See the full list atwww.guardian.co.uk/technology/blog/2010/jun/15/technology-films-realised
The launch ofMicrosoft's new Kinect games system, which allows players to run, jump, punch and shoot without having to wear strange clothing or hold any kind of controller, has got technology and cinema buffs alike thinking of Tom Cruise again. Specifically, the moment in the film Minority Report when Cruise, playing police chief John Anderton, tries to figure  out film footage and computer data by waving his hands around in mid-air to manipulate it: turning it, shrinking it, pushing it aside, revolving it. Give it time: in a few years, we'll more than likely be controlling our computers  in a similar way.When Minority Report came out  in the summer of 2002 – the iPod was less than a year old and the iPhone and iPad weren't even gleams in Steve Jobs's glinting eyes – its technological visions of the future seemed mind-bogglingly cool. The film was set in 2054 (Philip K Dick's short story, on which it is based, isn't so specific), so director Steven Spielberg presumably reckoned he was giving it plenty of room for the array of cutting-edge technologies to become part of our daily life.What Spielberg didn't count on, though, is what might be called "the Star Trek effect". If you show off imaginary cool technology in a film  or TV series, then kids, teenagers and enthusiastic technologists of all ages will try their damnedest to make it come true. When James T Kirk beamed down to an alien planet and flipped open his communicator, when Spock waved his tricorder over strange life forms and murmured "intriguing . . .", when the crew of the Enterprise teleported, carried phasers, communicated with their computer by voice and carried data around on little plastic sticks, a generation looked at it  and thought: that's a future I want  to live in.And so with Minority Report.  In the manner of all the best science-fiction, it included numerous gadgets but didn't rely on any of them as the key to its plot, which still revolved (as was Dick's predilection) on people's ability to deceive themselves about truth, lies and reality.For a lot of geeky fans, however,  the plot was incidental to the possibilities offered by the technologies on show. And there were plenty: pre-crime (predicting that a particular person will commit a crime); iris recognition (picking you out from  a crowd on the basis of the unique pattern of your iris); personalised advertising (where what you see on hoardings is targeted specifically to you); e-paper (electronic paper, for newspapers with moving images that people can read on trains); 3D video (do we have to explain this?); computer-guided cars (which follow preset patterns); spider robots (for tracking people); jetpacks; and some rather unpleasant police restraint technologies – including the sick stick (makes you sick on contact) and "the collar" (which effectively paralyses  you once fitted).Things such as gesture computing were still way off (though a jetpack had been used in the opening ceremony of the 1984 Olympic Games). But, eight years on, Spielberg and his technical advisers look as though they were too cautious . . .Gesture-based computingJohn Underkoffler, the MIT scientist who created the gesture-based computing that Cruise used in Minority Report, has developed his own company – Oblong Industries – to make it real and market it. But he has already been overtaken by companies such as Apple with the iPhone, offering "pinch" and "pull" and "swipe" for pictures and text since 2007. And of course by Microsoft, both with its new Kinect games system and its table-sized, touch-screen Surface, which lets you move things around with your hands.Dynamic iris recognitionYour iris has a unique pattern, and is already used to identify you (so long  as you are standing still in front of a camera) by border control agencies in the UK, Netherlands, United Arab Emirates, US and Canada. In the film, people's irises are read while they're on the move, presenting the extra challenge of movement and resolution. But with cameras and computers improving all the time, don't bet against this not being ready way before 2054.Personalised adsIn Minority Report, the iris recognition then led to personalised ads bombarding you on hoardings everywhere. That doesn't happen offline, but you do get them – to some extent – on the net: DoubleClick, the huge advertising company owned by Google, tracks any sites you visit that use its adverts, and can tailor what ads you see to an agglomeration of your interests. Attempts by the UK web-tracking company Phorm to let internet service providers do similar things with ads, by tracking where you went online, ran into privacy problems. And don't forget Facebook, which is spookily good at targeting ads – because it has access  to everything you have told it about yourself (though it insists it does not share that with advertisers).Computer-guided carsArguably, the closest we will get to this is satnav systems, which are actually pretty pervasive; the market is nearly saturated, at least in the UK. However, the Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency (which gave us the internet) has had an "autonomous car" competition – and entrants are getting better. Wouldn't it be nice if your car could drive you home after a night on the booze? Pubs would cheer.3D videoHave you seen Avatar? Up? Sky's new 3D TV service? The new Nintendo 3DS? Done.E-paperApple's iPad and Amazon's Kindle are a bit bulky, but lots of news organisations think they are just the ticket for electronic reading. But real "electronic paper" – bendy, able to retain an image, electronically rewriteable – is getting closer all the time. In January, the Korean company LG showed off a 19in flexible e-paper, and companies such as Plastic Logic and E Ink are getting electronics that look closer to paper all the time. Perhaps it will be a hit when newspapers stop printing. So, 2054 then. Or perhaps 2015?Pre-crimeIn the film, "pre-cogs" can look into the future and inform the police (they have got no choice – they are stuck  in baths in the basement). In 2008, Portsmouth city council installed  CCTV linked to software that would note whether people were walking suspiciously slowly.University researchers had already realised in 2001that, if you recorded the walking paths of people in car parks, you could spot the would-be thieves simply: they didn't walk directly to a car, but instead ambled around with no apparent target. That is because, unlike everyone else in a car park, they weren't going totheir own car.That's not the end: Nick Malleson,  a researcher at the University of Leeds, has built a system that can predict the likelihood of a house being broken into, based on how close it is to routes that potential burglars might take around the city; he is meeting Leeds council this week to discuss how to use it in new housing developments, to reduce the chances of break-ins. So although pre-crime systems can't quite predict murder yet, it may only be a matter of time.Spider robotsThe US military isdeveloping "insect robots", with the help of British Aerospace. They actually haveeight legs(so, really, arachnid robots) and will be able to reconnoitre dangerous areas where you don't want to send  a human, such as potentially  occupied houses."Our ultimate goal is to develop technologies that will give our soldiers another set of eyes and ears for use in urban environments and complex terrain; places where they cannot go or where it would be too dangerous," Bill Devine, advanced concepts manager with BAE Systems, told World Military Forum. Give it 10 years and they will  be there.Sick sticksThese have already been the object  of some research: Pennsylvania State University researchers developed  a system to emit ultra-bright light pulses that induce "temporary blindness, disorientation, nausea  and blindness". And a company  called Intelligent Optical Security  has built and sold it for the US's Homeland Security organisation –  so feel worried. There's no sign of restraint collars yet, although watching England play football has been known to have the same effect.
Apple has reported overwhelming demand for its new iPhone 4 model, selling more than 600,000 in a single day on Tuesday which saw ordering websites crash in the US and UK.In Germany, demand for the new model, which was only unveiled by Apple chief executive Steve Jobs at the start of the month, is running 10 times ahead of that for last year's model, the iPhone 3GS, reported Deutsche Telekom.By comparison, when the iPhone 3GS went on sale last year, 1m were sold in its first three days. But that debuted in eight countries, whereas the iPhone 4 has gone on sale only in five.Apple has apologised to people who tried to order the phone and gave up in frustration, saying demand was far higher than it expected. "We hope that they will try again.. once the iPhone 4 is in stock."Since its debut in June 2007, Apple's smartphone has taken a huge chunk of the smartphone market and forced companies such as RIM, maker of the BlackBerry, and Nokia, which has the lion's share of smartphone sales, to play catchup. Nokia issued another profits warning on Wednesday, and its share of the smartphone market is falling every quarter.In the UK, where Apple is offering the phone without a contract through its online store, Apple's website crashed as people tried to order it. And in the US, where it is only available with a contract from AT&amp;T, the telephone company's website froze as it tried to cope with an avalanche of orders each of which had to be verified on its own servers. That also led to problems in which some customers saw details of other peoples' accounts – a reminder of the flaw exposed by a security group last week in which hundreds of thousands of Apple iPad users' emails were stolen via weak security on AT&amp;T's site.As a result of the heavy demand Apple has had to push back the delivery date for phones ordered online, and on Wednesday AT&amp;T suspended orders, citing "unexpectedly high demand".Apple said "it was the largest number of pre-orders Apple has ever taken in a single day and was far higher than we anticipated, resulting in many order and approval system malfunctions."Last year in the UK O2 had exclusive rights to sell the new iPhone, and said then thatmore of those handsets were sold in the first two hours of trading than all handsets in an average day.This year Apple is selling the iPhone 4 without a contract – at £499 for the cheapest version – and O2, Vodafone, Orange and 3 are competing to offer it on contract terms. However neither O2 or 3 have yet announced prices, or allowed customers to pre-order the phone.However the new contracts being offered for the phones have sparked anger among web users, who say that the carriers' use of the word "unlimited" for the amount of data that can be downloaded through the smartphone is misleading. The companies impose a "fair use" cap, while describing the service as "unlimited".Now, a formal review by the advertising regulator could be about to put a cap on the practice.This could mean that fixed-line and mobile operators will not be able to use the term "unlimited broadband" unless they are offering a genuinely unlimited service – and that means nothing in the small print that lets the provider send warnings to customers if they reach a certain threshold.The review is being led by the Advertising Standards Authority,reports New Media Age, which will work with two ad industry bodies to make a comprehensive assessment of industry claims and consumer complaints on both broadband speeds and "unlimited" tariff penalties.
Six hours after Nintendo's successful E3 press conference, the company's game design talisman Shigeru Miyamoto was back on stage, this time at a more intimate roundtable discussion. Joined by 3DS general producer Hideki Konno and Zelda producer Eiji Aonuma, he gave some fascinating insights into the development of Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword, due out on the Wii next year. He also discussed the thinking behind the 3DS console and the achingly cute pet sim sequel Nintendogs + Cats.At the beginning of the event, attendees were given the chance to see a brief demo ofLegend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 3D, an updated version of the N64 classic, re-envisioned for the new handheld platform. The excerpt is just a glimpse of Link, riding his horse through a large meadow, but already what you get is the epic sense of scale and depth. As Miyamoto explains, "three years ago, when we first started working on the 3DS hardware, one of the first things I thought was, I want to experience that vast feel of Ocarina of Tine with those 3D effects. I felt that if you were able to run around in that field it would feel that you were really there. Also, a lot of people experienced that game for the first time as a sixth grader. I want you to experience it again, as an adult."But that's not the only classic Nintendo series he thought of when first working on the 3DS technology. During the press event earlier in the day, attendees whooped when one of the 3DS demo videos showed a brief glimpse of an R-Wing fighter – an iconic craft from the legendaryStar Foxseries. "With Star Fox being in the 3D shooting genre, it's hard to tell when your bullets are going to hit an object in the distance, or what the spatial relationship is, or where you need to be to fly through the ring," Says Miyamoto. "All of that becomes very clear when you're playing in the 3D space with full 3D visuals. As soon as we started working on the 3DS, I decided I wanted to work on a Star Fox game. And because the 3DS has two screens, it means that you have a top screen for gameplay and a bottom screen for communications from all the other characters in the game."It's clear then, that one thing he's really keen to get across, is the gameplay potential of 3D – it's not just about heightening the visual experience. As he put it, "when you're playing a game in a fully rendered world, like in a Mario game for example, it can be very difficult, without 3D visuals, to understand depth and the spatial arrangement between two objects. In particular, in a Mario game, just doing something as simple as trying to perform a stomp or hitting a question mark that's floating in the air, can be very difficult. I'm sure a lot of people had to jump a few times to figure out where it was floating above their heads. Once you have 3D visuals to go along with that 3D rendered world, all that becomes very clear. So we've been having a lot of fun seeing what we can do with past games to make them feel fresh and make the 3D spaces easier to play, while also coming up with new ideas."Miyamoto also points out the benefits of the 3DS as a closed platform 3D solution. Developers don't have to worry about the specifications of each player's 3D TV set, they can design for a single display implementation, which makes things much easier. They won't have this luxury with PS3 and Xbox 360. He also announces that Hideki Konno, who previously worked on the Mario Kart series and Nintendogs has been made general producer of 3DS development. There's a sense of Miyamoto passing on the baton of responsibility - "so if 3DS goes well that means I can retire," he laughs.The discussion moves on toNintendogs + Cats, the 3DS sequel to one of the iconic Nintendo DS titles. It turns out that while working on the original game the team was already experimenting with cat models, but couldn't quite figure out how to implement them. "Cats are interesting, they're kind of like girls," says Miyamoto. "If they come and talk to you it's great, but when you go and try to talk to them it doesn't always go so well! Also, although they're pets they do their own thing, you can't teach them any tricks."But then a year ago, after only ever owning dogs, Miyamoto bought a kitten and was fascinated by how the two species interacted; he knew he wanted to bring that relationship into the game. Amusingly, Konno jokes that he was hoping to keep Nintendogs + Cats a secret, but when Miyamoto announced last year that he'd bought a cat, he knew the game was up: "When Miyamoto got interested in gardening he made Pikmin, when he bought a dog, we got Nintendogs. So when he bought a kitten the assumption was that we'd see a cat game. When I heard him talk about that, I have to say, I was a little sad!"While Nintendogs + Cats follows a similar format to its predecessor, with the player selecting from a range of breeds before caring for and playing with their puppy, the team has attempted to add more detail to the experience. The fur technology has advanced, using the 3D visuals to bring out the differences in textures between breeds. There's more variation in terms of colour and size, but also in terms of personality.There was also a desire to add a new form of communication between the user and the dog, alongside talking into the microphone and using the touch screen to pet them. Consequently, Nintendogs + Cats uses the console's inner camera to recognise the player's face. If you look at the screen and tilt your head from side to side, the dog recognises that and mimics the movement. Also, if you put your face close to the device, the dog will wander up and lick the screen. Each pet also remembers faces so when the player uses the game, it will happily approach the screen, but if someone it doesn't recognise tries to have a go, it runs away and barks from a distance.Miyamoto and Konno also discuss the tag function of the original Nintendogs. With that game, players could select 'Bark mode' then close the DS and take it with them whenever they went out. The console's local area networking feature would then spot other Nintendogs owners in the player's vicinity and allow the strangers to swap dogs and items. It was an extremely popular feature, which was subsequently adopted into Dragon Quest IX (and other titles such as Capcom's hugely successful Monster Hunter on the PSP). Miyamoto talks about the culture of data swapping in Japan, where groups of gamers gather in the country's electric towns, like Akihabara, to exchange Nintentdogs breeds, or to gain new quests and content for Dragon Quest  – "There would even be elementary school kids asking if they could be taken to Akihabara to get new maps," he says. Apparently, Nintendo also set up Nintendogs relay stations in Japanese cities, where players could pass by and download their dog data – then if someone else walked by with the game, they could pick up that dog, and drop off their own.This tag mode concept has now become a core function of the 3DS hardware, available to all titles. There's a key difference, though: with Nintendogs, users had to have the game cart in the machine, they had to select the correct mode, and then close the DS up – they couldn't play any games while their DS searched for other machines. With the 3DS, however, it seems that if you own any compatible games (Miyamoto also mentions that the 3DS versions of Animal Crossing and Mario Kart will support the feature) all the communication happens automatically, even if the game cartridge isn't in, or if you're playing something else. You could go for a walk through town and later find that you've downloaded new maps or items, either just by passing a wi-fi hotspot, or making a local connection with another 3DS owner."Of course it would be simple to do this over the internet," says Miyamoto. "But what's fun and interesting is the fact that this is going on in the real world. You're walking around and all of a sudden you discover that new data has come onto your system, so you look at it and you think. 'oh wow, who was this from? The person must have just walked by'…"The chat turns toLegend of Zelda: Skyward Sword, the long-rumoured new Wii instalment in the massively popular action RPG series. Producer Eiji Aonuma comes onto stage to explain how the Wii Motion Plus peripheral was a vital element of the design process, allowing the team to streamline the control interface, so that players enjoyed accurate sword control as well as the ability to instantly and intuitively flick between items - elements they've wanted to add to the Zelda series for a long time. He also discusses how the Motion Plus controller acts like a computer mouse in 3D space, allowing player's much more precise control over the onscreen cursor than just using the pointer and sensor bar combo to use items.There's some detail about the story of Zelda. In the final scene of the demo shown during the Nintendo press conference, Link is shown diving from a cliff into a cloudy abyss. Apparently, that is a defining point in the story. It turns out that the game follows Link as a young boy who's been born and raised on a land named Skyloft, which floats above the clouds. One day, an incident leads him to discover that there's another land beneath the clouds – a dangerous land ruled by evil forces. And naturally, due to the earlier incident, Link is forced to travel to this threatening domain. The Skyward Sword of the title is a central plot component – when it's aiding Link in his quest, it takes on the human-like appearance that we saw in the very first piece of art revealed at last year's E3.And this leads to an interesting revelation about the game's design process. Miyamoto explains that Skyward Sword is all about a return to the central principles of the Zelda series. "People tend to fixate on how many dungeons there are, or how the story flows," he says. "But one of the things we wanted to do this time was bring it back to that core gameplay. What makes it fun?"What the team did, then, was push graphical style right to the back of the 'to do' list, starting instead, with raw gameplay components. As Miyamoto explains, "It's true for many Nintendo games in the past, and it's probably true for a lot of other developers, but often when you're working on a game, you start off with an idea of what you want it to look like and you spend a lot of time working on sketches and concept art, trying to recreate that art in the game. And often there can be a big lag between getting the graphics done and putting the gameplay together. During this roundtable at last year's E3 we showed a single piece of art in relation to this game. Well, at that time, the gameplay structure was actually almost complete - but the only thing we had to show you in terms of graphics was this single image."So now the gameplay is very complete in what we're showing, and we're starting to see what the visual style is going to be. We have a few more dungeons to create and we're looking to add some more challenging bosses, but we're in the final stretch." In a sense, the process reflects Miyamoto's lifelong design approach – the importance of interface and function over visuals – but it's interesting that this has evolved into a process in which graphics don't even play a conceptual role until very late in the schedule. When Aonuma talks about the graphical style, the emphasis is on mood and space. Apparently, sky is very important in the game, there are a lot of dramatic vistas, a concept Miyamoto very quickly approved. As a fan of impressionist art, he says he loved the way that the skies and mountains had the distinct feel of a Cezanne painting.Finally, the discussion returns briefly toOcarina of Time, and Aonuma makes a confession. He asks the audience if they played the original, and whether or not they remembered the incredibly difficult Water Temple section. A groan of recognition echoes around the auditorium. He admits he was responsible for the level, which included the fiddly requirement to continually put on and take off a pair of iron boots to get through the stage. But with the forthcoming 3DS remake, the touch screen will make it much easier to interact with the boots. "I've carried that shame for the last ten years!" he jokes. They take game design very seriously here at Nintendo.
AOL is understood to have found a buyer for Bebo, the struggling social network it bought for $850m just over two years ago.A report by technology blog Mashablesaid sources confirmed a potential deal but did not name the buyer.The giant technology network completed a strategic review of the site last month, and had told employees its intention was to close or sell the social network.Once the only social network that mattered to UK teens, Bebo was rapidly overtaken as Facebook expanded outside the US.AOL has not announced a deal,but also not denied one.AOL bought Bebo at the peak of its popularity in 2008 in an $850m (£750m) deal that reportedly netted nearly £300m for the British founder, Michael Birch, and his American wife. Bebo's then chief executive Joanna Shields managed a slick campaign to sell the company, focusing on attractive but ultimately low impact media projects such as Kate Modern.But after the deal was signed, AOL struggled to exploit the potential of the then three-year-old media site. A former executive told the Guardian the young site needed continued investment, but without adequate funding from AOL, the site stalled and lost ground to Facebook.The source told the Guardian that any potential buyer would be likely to pay far below AOL's acquisition price, and could be planning to strip out the site's core user data to reinforce an existing advertising platform.A reporter from the private equity blog PEHubspeculated that the buyer is in Southern California.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Google UK has set its sights on cashing in on the property market by beefing up Google Maps with new house-hunting services from partners including real estate agent giant Countrywide, Zoopla and Trinity Mirror.The new property finder service, which goes live today, will allow home buyers and renters to search for properties by a city or location and drill down by specifics such as price, type and numbers of bedrooms and bathrooms."About half of the queries on Google have a geographic component," said Andrew Foster, product manager at Google. "We want Google Maps to be a map that contains all of the world's information. We know that many UK home buyers are already using Google Maps in their house-hunting, and by adding property listings to the map we're putting everything together for them in one place."Google has signed up UK partners including Countrywide, the UK's largest estate agency with a portfolio including Bairstow Eves, Bridgfords and Sotherby's Inernational, and Spicer Haart. Deals have also been struck with online-only players including Zoopla, whichacquired Property Finder from News InternationalandThinkproperty.com from Guardian Media Group last year, Trinity Mirror's Zoomf and SmartNewHomes, Vebra, Property Pal and Ezylet."With tens of thousands of properties available the most important thing for us is to showcase to the widest audience in most efficient way," said Grenville Turner, group chief executive of Countrywide. "We want to operate in the online space in the same way we do in every other part of our business … clearly traffic shows Google is a major portal for the average customer so this deal takes us to where customers are already operating and looking".Google, which said that it has several hundreds of thousands of properties lined up for the launch today, will make money from running ads above and below search results. Estate agents and online property companies will not be charged to be partners."We are completely open to working with any company," said Foster, when asked why major players such as Rightmove have not been signed up at launch.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Windows error on screen at Lexington Airport, Kentucky. Photo byrickon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAre Your Error Messages Easily Understood? &gt;&gt; Smiley Cat Web DesignYes, it's another Microsoft dialog box. Tested for irritancy on humans. But not comprehensibility. Contains three words most people won't understand ("install", "source", "cache") and one that's not needed ("certain" - if you're uncertain but you want to, should you still click Yes?). Better: "Do you want to delete the temporary files used to install Office? Delete/ Keep". No default button.I was wrong about Apple iPad &gt;&gt; BetanewsJoe Wilcox thought the iPad wasn't important. Changed his mind. "On further reflection, I realized that iPad offers fresh functionality: Immersion. I find there are fewer reading distractions, and content is better presented than on a laptop and browser. I'm more focused and retain more of what I read. For reasons not easily explained, I find myself more thoroughly reading iBooks than defaulting to the skimming I sometimes do with physical books. Part of this immersive experience is the technology, but also how iPad is used. Apple's tablet is a sit down and focus device, as much because of size and shape as screen and user interface. The totality -- physical design and software benefits -- is immersion."Facebook Spam App Du Jour &gt;&gt; F-Secure Weblog"The teacher nearly killed this boy" - a spam app that added 50,000 unwitting users. Facebook is rapidly becoming the Windows XP of Web 2.0.What's Happening with Twitter? &gt;&gt; Twitter blog"in the meantime, we are making real-time adjustments so that we can grow our capacity and avoid outages during the World Cup.&#10;&#10;"As we go through this process, we have uncovered unexpected deeper issues and have even caused inadvertent downtime as a result of our attempts to make changes. Ultimately, the changes that we are making now will make Twitter much more reliable in the future. However, we certainly are not happy about the disruptions that we have faced and even caused this week and understand how they negatively impact our users."&#10;&#10;We're intrigued by these "deeper issues".Tennessee Man Buys Police Department Website After Speeding Ticket &gt;&gt; ABC News"When Brian McCrary, 33, received a speeding ticket in Bluff City, Tennessee, he didn't just complain, he bought the local police department's website and used it to complain."&#10;&#10;Didn't get the ticket revoked though.US raises objections over ICQ sale plans &gt;&gt; FT.com"Senior US law enforcement officials have objected to AOL's pending sale of one of the largest instant-messaging services to a Russian investment firm, fearing it will put some of the world's top criminals further from their reach." Because if the ICQ servers more to Russia, it's hard to subpeona them, and "every bad guy in the world is on ICQ". Joseph Menn, who wrote this piece, is the author of "Fatal System Error" - which we recommend highly.Facebook doesn't have privacy problems. It has positioning risks &gt;&gt; Edge IdeasIs Facebook about communication, or content? That matter to venture capitalists.About the Mac OS X v10.6.4 Update &gt;&gt; Apple"Resolves an issue with MacBook Pro (Early 2010) computers in which the right speaker may sound louder than the left speaker" and other essential fixes.3D drawing tools &gt;&gt; Rhonda Forever 2003-2010Intriguing, though bet it takes a while to master. But then, shouldn't it?Facebook users clickjacked by the 101 Hottest Women in the World &gt;&gt; Graham Cluley's blog"Why are people creating clickjacking worms like this? The answer is simple - to make money. The site is part of the CPALead advertising network, helping to generate revenue for those behind this scam." Potential upside of these attacks: will help weed out the scammy advertising networks, or at least the users on them.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Nintendo didn't mess around at E3. Having shown off an array of intriguing titles featuring a nostalgic cast of the company's most cherished characters, CEO Satoru Iwata then revealed the Nintendo 3DS, a handheld console complete with glasses-free 3D technology.As with the Nintendo DS, the console features two screens. At the top is the 3.5" display that provides the 3D visuals, while at the bottom there's a slightly smaller touch screen display. On the right-hand side is a slider that controls the level of the 3D graphical effect – it can even be switched off completely. On the left-hand side of the touch screen there's an analogue controller and a D-pad, while the usual four-button array sits on the right. There are also three cameras, one above the screens, and two on the other side, which will allow users to take 3D digital photographs – a fantastic little feature.Iwata-san didn't confirm any technical details, but mentioned that the graphics processor has been updated since the Nintendo DS, allowing for better visuals. The device also contains an accelerometer and a gyro sensor for full motion controls. A subscription free wi-fi service is also included, which keeps 3DS owners connected at all times and automatically downloading game data and other extras whenever they become available.Alongside the announcement of Nintendo's Kid Icarus Uprising, an RPG adventure designed exclusively for the device, dozens of developers and publishers were revealed to have games in development. Highlights include DJ Hero, Resident Evil Revelations, Metal Gear Solid, Ridge Racer and Saint's Row. Nintendo is also working on Mario Kart 3DS, Paper Mario 3DS and Animal Crossing 3DS among several others. The release date is set for this Winter.After the press event, key members of the media were ushered into a backstage area to get hands-on sessions with several game demos. Somehow, Gamesblog snuck in, as well.And yes, it works beautifully. Nintendo is almost certain to have used an off-the-shelf lenticular screen technology, already seen in several mobile phones and laptops. You can perceive 3D only if the console is directly in front of you, but this isfinefor handheld gaming. I actually found it pretty adaptable in terms of viewing from different vertical positions. It was much more sensitive if the handheld was turned slightly to the left or right, but really, it coped perfectly with the slight shifts and jerks you'd get on a morning commute.I saw short, essentially non-interactive, demos of several titles. Kid Icarus, once a 2D platformer with RPG elements, is now a lovely bright 3D adventure, with some gorgeous aerial sequences. When the angelic lead character flies through the clouds with the ground far below, there's an amazing sense of depth and scale, totally at odds with the relatively small size of the screen (an effect that Iwata-san hinted at in his presentation).We were also allowed to see a short demo of Resident Evil Revelations, a 3DS-exclusive from Capcom. The action seems to take place on a giant ocean liner amid a terrifying storm. On board are Chris Redfield and Jill Valentine who seem to be coming to blows over some typically obtuse Resi plot point, while a shady prisoner looks on. This time, we could use the analogue stick to look around the scene, using short smooth wiping motions on the button. It's also possible to zoom in and out using the A and B buttons.The longest demo was a 3DS version of Metal Gear Solid 3 Snake Eater. From a first-person perspective, we join Snake crawling through the undergrowth of a jungle back in 1964, encountering the odd exotic animal as leaves flutter around the character. At one point he triggers a trap which sends a spiked log rolling quickly toward the camera, before it bounces over. The sense of depth here, and the way the 3D visuals allow you to pick out different levels of the foliage, make this impressively dramatic.My favourite bit was when Snake stands up and walks over a rope bridge. At this point the demo allowed me to pan the camera all around him, getting an awesome 3D view. It's hard to describe, but in some ways this 3D Snake resembles a beautifully painted Games Workshop figurine.The most interactive demo was Nintendogs + Cats, a new 3DS version of the classic pet sim from Shigeru Miyamoto. Here I could choose from three puppies, a beagle, golden retriever or Yorkshire terrier, then watch my canine pal gambol about a 3D room. If the dog comes up and lean on the screen, you can pet it by stroking the touch screen. It's also possible to select from a series of items to share with the dog. There's a ball and a boomerang to throw (using a wipe on the touch screen), and, as in the original, you can dress the poor thing up; items included a Mario cap, woollen hat and a selection of sunglasses. You can even give your unfortunate pooch a pompadour haircut.Nintendo was also showing off a basic version of the photography software, allowing users to take photos and use the analogue stick to shift the two versions of the image until it worked as a 3D photo with a separated background. This could well prove to be a key selling point in the casual sector – it's just so much fun.Finally, there were a couple of movie trailers on show. Nintendo has forged deals with Disney, Dreamworks and Warner to make a selection of 3D animated movies available on 3DS via digital download. There are no details yet, but I saw Disney's new Tangled movie and the effect was spot on. My sons will love it.Rich colours, a robust 3D experience and some intriguing games, this was my moment of the E3 experience so far. There are three days of the main show to go though...
For those who are just  getting comfortable with text messaging andFacebook,Twittercan seem dauntingly cutting-edge. And yet, as a page from the August 1935 edition of Modern Mechanix magazine reveals, there are some great-grandparents out there to whom micro-blogging looks positively old-fashioned. They probably remember The Notificator.Like Twitter, the Notificator enabled people to post short messages on an ever-rolling public display. First patented in 1932, it was inspired by similar machines in Japanese railway stations and was designed "to aid persons who wish to cancel appointments or inform friends of their whereabouts".Essentially, it was a very simple device: a large mechanical paper scroll sits behind a sheet of glass with a hatch at the bottom. By inserting two pennies, any  passerby could open the hatch, write a message on the exposed paper, and close it again, causing the mechanism to ratchet the whole scroll up another notch. As with Twitter, the size of these  messages was limited, but what they might say was not.The Notificator is not the only example of an idea that seemed to arrive decades ahead of schedule. The April 1933 edition of Modern Mechanix describes a new German "amplifier which boosts both the incoming and outgoing voice" just like your hands-free button on your phone. And incredibly, the July 1934 edition of Popular Science details the miraculous invention of the "Sound Pen", which took minutes to convert a radio  signal into a sketch of a small cartoon. Ah, fax machines . . . remember them?
As exclusively revealed by the Guardian two weeks ago, Transport for London has opened up huge swathes of its data for free re-use by developers keen to see what they can do - and build - with it.After years of lobbying by developers who have wanted to be able to exploit the data - which, being publicly funded, logically belongs to the public too - TfL today acknowledged its willingness to listen to what people want to do as the London Data Store, headed by Emer Coleman, announced the datasets that will be provided.Though relieved, the reaction from developers was amazement that this has finally happened. "Who did they have to kill to get that done?" mused one developer to whom I mentioned that this was in the offing.Boost for London's Software Developer Community and SME's as TfL lifts all restrictions on commercial reuse of its datais the headline at the London Data Store, which quoted Chris MacLeod, Director of Group Marketing at TfL, who said it's just the beginning: "I hope that our announcement will result in new relationships between the open data community and Tfl/London's Datastore. We know from international experience that the majority of smartphone apps built on public data are focused around the reuse of public transport data."Today's announcement on licensing coincides with the release of several new data sets both on theTfL developer pageand feeds to live tube travel news, tube departure boards, tube station and tube line status onLondon's Datastore:The London Datastore currently hosts the following travel-related data sets:Via the TfL developer page:&bull;Station Locations&bull;TfL Pier Locations&bull;Live Traffic Cameras&bull;Oyster Ticket Stop LocationsStatic files on GLA servers&bull;Cycle Hire Locations&bull;London Underground Signals Passed at Danger&bull;TfL Investment Programme&bull;TfL Business Plan&bull;Riverboat TimetablesThe LDS says it is "currently working" on also releasing more datasets by 30 June, including- Bus Stops- Bus Routes- RODS Data (Rolling Origin and Destination Survey Data).And it says that data on bus timetables and schedules will follow.It's thus turning into a very good year for free data: there was the freeing by Ordnance Survey of its 1:10K Street View mapping and vector versions at the same resolution; those have now been incorporated intoOpenStreetMapfor those who don't want to use the OS API or maps which only use OS data.There are some early criticisms: on the post, Chris Puttick comments "While it's good new that the data is being released witout restrictions on commercial use, it is very poor quality data. Take the station locations feed for instance - it is incomplete (as acknowledged in the FAQ), and the address of each station is a single field witout any consistency in the formatting. The pier locations feed lacks even address information. As it stands, the information on Wikipedia is more useful." - though he's responded to by another Chris, who says "The point is that it's free (as in speech as well as beer). So imagine the databases &amp; APIs the community can build by mashing up the data from TfL, Wikipedia and OpenStreetMap, for example."We're expecting the first round of Android and iPhone apps in about 30 days, people.... But what do you think? Tiny step for (Cole)man, or giant leap for developerkind? Let us know in the comments.
Filled with Gallic flair, psychedelic assurance and a few moments of bewilderment, Ubisoft's E3 press conference provided a stark contrast to the rigid, gamer-friendly posturing of Microsoft and EA. The games were a mixed bag of clear triple-A superstars and bizarre experiments, but with amusingly snarky US TV presenter Joel McHale presenting it was certainly the most entertaining and unpredictable event of the pre-E3 run in.The show was bookended by two awesome staged performances. First up was ex-Sega legend Tetsuya Mizuguchi showing off a new Kinetic-operated version of his surreal music shooter,Rez. NamedChild of Eden, it's a familiar mix of hardcore blasting, trippy visuals and thumping beats, but this time the action is controlled with gestures, claps and kicks. He explained that his inspiration, once again, is synesthesia (the medical condition in which sensory experiences are muddled, so people "taste" colours and "see" sounds). It turned out to be prescient primer for the rest of the show.Assassin's Creed BrotherhoodThe big-hitters were doubtlessAssassin's Creed BrotherhoodandGhost Recon Future Soldier. Ubisoft showed off in-game footage of the former for the first time, with Ezio arriving in 16th century Rome and getting into a highly staged scuffle with the Borgio clan. The character models are incredibly authentic, dripping in contemporary detail, and the fighting looks to be solid and gory. In one extended fight scene on the city battlements, Ezio takes on several soldiers, hacking, slashing and stabbing his way through in a whirl of blood and clashing blades. When a burly knight approaches at the conclusion, our Assassin hero chucks a massive battle-axe at his chest sending him flying across the screen. The E3 crowd cheered like the viewers of a gladiatorial contest.Story-wise, Ezio is now a leader of his Assassin clan, older, wiser but still prone to mistakes. His power has not gone unnoticed by the corrupt Templars, who seek to hunt him down and destroy him. As well as sword combat, players will be able to grab special items, at one point controlling a cannon on the city battlements, shooting at a vast enemy army attempting to breach the walls with enormous siege machines. It's out on November 16. It looks lovely.Shaun White's SkateboardingNext up wasShaun White's Skateboarding, which is about as far from a standard athlete-endorsed sports product as you can get. Instead of a rigidly authentic skate sim, it's a surreal futuristic fantasy in which an Orwellian organisation known as the Ministry has drained the world of colour and cheer. As a rebel skateboarder, players need to bring life back into the environments by creating their own skate runs through the city streets, discovering ramps and grind rails, and also creating their own grind paths on the fly using the analogue stick.It's part Jet Set Radio, part Okami, but I can't say much else as the creative director, Nick Harper, is my brother-in-law. What I can say is that I was enormously proud of him. What you don't get from simply watching this array of highly staged conferences is the massive work and sheer panic that goes into them – the multiple rehearsals and the concern about relying on early code at such a pivotal event. Nick told me that when the confident-looking Mizuguchi came backstage he breathed the biggest sigh of relief he'd ever seen.Shaun White Skateboarding ushered in a selection of very offbeat titles.Battle Tagis a console version of the popular Lazer Tag game, which provides players with plastic guns and sensor vests so they can run around the house pretending to shoot each other. In this version, data is sent to the machine which keeps scores, performance data and stats from the scuffles. It looks like gamers can use little plastic markers to create their own game levels in and around the home, with players having to tag these during fights. I'm not sure I entirely understood what was going on, but each copy of the game will come with two guns and all the rest of the required equipment.Next up cameInnergy, presented by Ubisoft's accurately titled new concept director, Tommy Francois. It appears to be a deep breathing simulator, which comes complete an energy sensor that clips on the user's finger and monitors the pulse rate. The action involves guiding a bubble through a wavy rainbow landscape, by breathing in a controlled, relaxed manner. The visuals are hugely reminiscent of titles like Loco Roco and Katamari, and proved rather hypnotic in their own right. It's all about relaxation, and Francois claims that the impact on blood pressure of these exercises has the same impact on blood pressure as loosing 20 pounds. Hmm. This is clearly not aimed at the veteran gamer market and feels more like a mini-game or a section of a wider experience (perhaps it is; it wasn't that clear). But it does seem to work – Nick told me that amid a backstage atmosphere of sheer nervousness, Francois was the picture of Zen-like calm.We then saw two Kinetic titles.Motion Sportis a multi-event sports sim, complete with downhill skiing (in which you can physically chuck snow in your opponent's face), American football and "soccer". There was also more time forYour Shape Evolved, Ubisoft's promising fitness title, revealed during Microsoft's Kinect presentation on Sunday evening.Raving Rabbits Travel in TimeNext,Raving Rabbits Travel in Time, an amusing-looking new adventure for Ubisoft's cuddly Wii heroes, in which they interfere in key moment's of man's development. There's a great scene showing them in a tunnel beneath King Arthur's stone, holding on to the blade of the sword as the young legend tries to prise it out. Lots of knockabout comedy and brash visuals, and exclusive to Wii.Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future SoldierFresh in-game footage ofTom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldierprovided a stark contrast. Once again, Ubisoft claims to have grilled military experts and arms agencies throughout the world to discover the next generation of weaponry – which they've then packed into their squad-based tactical shooter. Hence, players get a remote control mini-robot, like a bomb detector droid, but with a machine gun. There's also a shoulder mounted mini-grenade launcher and a cloaking device that renders you and your colleagues partially invisible. A quote on the screen claims that, "The future of the soldier is an F16 on legs", and that's certainly the feel this game is going for.We're shown a level taking place in a rundown seaside town somewhere in Northern Europe (I didn't see any Kiss Me Quick hats so we can rule out a British resort). Here the squad must take out a group of enemy soldiers placed around and under a pier section. It's all about sneaking up and making silent kills with the cloaking device switched on. There's a great moment where producer Adrian Lacey creeps up behind a guy at a gun emplacement, and shoots him from behind, then holds him up so a passing enemy doesn't spot that his hombre has just been blasted. "That guy clearly isn't paying enough attention," quips McHale.It looks like classic Ghost Recon, a slow-burning mix of stealthy progression and then fast, explosive shootouts. They show us another section when the player and his squad are holed up in a building as an enemy helicopter approaches, carrying what looks like some kind of robotic tank on a long chain beneath it. The player takes out the pilot with one shot and the chopper goes into a spin, flailing its cargo around the battlefield. It's beautifully staged.Driver: San FranciscoAfter a brief look atDriver: San Francisco, which seems to be melding classic cop chase gameplay with a Life on Mars-type plot (the hero, John Tanner, is in a coma and is imagining the whole thing. Huh?), there's a brief presentation by Ubi's CEO Yves Guillemot. He showed off a new project from legendary designer Michael Ancel. It's a visually gorgeous new Rayman game, but more on that in another post. The event ended with its key revelation – a newMichael Jacksondancing and singing game, using music and dance moves from the late King of Pop's vast career, and supporting Kinect and PlayStation Move. The details were vague, but it looks like you'll be taught whole group routines, from hits like Beat It and Billie Jean, allowing you to get together with friends and pretend to be in Jackson's classic videos.The cheering and applause echoed out through the vast auditorium of the Los Angeles Theatre. Jackson has still got it and Ubisoft, swaying between blockbuster releases and odd experiments (some promise to be successful, some perhaps less so) is still the unpredictable sometimes mystifying European art house provocateur of mainstream games publishing.
Microsoft has launched a web version of Office – and unlike Office, it's completely free if you have a Hotmail account. That's remarkable on a number of levels – it means that it's finally trying to fight Google on Google's turf … or that it's trying to defend its turf on the PC. Which is it, Microsoft?To find out, I dived right in. Just as Google requires you to log in with a Google account, Microsoft needs you to have a Live.com account (a Hotmail account will do). Fine.The normal document options are there:Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote.I began with theWord Web App.You can't just type - you have to save your empty document first.But where Google lets you create a document and just start typing, Office Online insists that you first give the document a name.Don't try your bad filename tricks on Office Web apps. It'll get all red.(And not just any name: it can't include any of the magick Windows-killing characters such as \ or :, nor can it start with the magick Unix-killing .).Office spots your bad filename, and tells you what else you can't use in it.By default (and with no option), the documents are created in the .docx format, which older version of Office can't read directly, though you can get free translators.The typing is the easy part. It's just the little questions that pop into your head...Fine; start typing. That's the easy part; and in many ways the setup is just the same as Google Docs. Typing, typing, typing …Next: across the top of the document are four tabs: File, Home (which you're in if you're editing), Insert and View.Clicking Home gives a number of file-based options: open in Word, Save changes, Share the document with others, Properties [of the document], and then the also-rans: Give Feedback, Privacy [find out how it's protected], Terms of Use, Close. Now: have you noticed what's missing from that?The File dialog in the Word Web app. Can you spot the missing option?There's no option to upload a document – or, at this time, to download it (though that will come later in our adventure). At this moment in the process, you can't get your content from your computer to the cloud, or vice-versa.Well, actually, you can – see later – but it's not done from "inside" any of the programs. Unlike Google, again, where you can upload a document into an existing one at any time, and you can download a document as soon asor even beforeyou've saved it.This is a classic example where Microsoft hasn't thought about the user interface. One feels it's so busy protecting the Office monopoly on desktops that it can't give you the best experience, or even the best cloud-based experience, in case you stop buying Office.Bad, bad user interface: why should I have to save the document just to see it formatted for printing?Now, in the process of trying out the app, I clicked on the "View" tab. A fresh annoyance: a dialog box saying that the changes to my document haven't been saved, so do I want to abandon them?The first thing it doesn't do, in Word: save regularly. (Though it does do this in the PowerPoint version. As we'll see, this is typical of the inconsistencies across the setup.)This is a mad question. I'm in the cloud. What if I'm on a train and I lose my connection? Does Microsoft really need an explicit "save" order? But you can't proceed without it. By contrast, Google Docs also has a "View" tab (which shows you a layout version of the page) but its autosave – invoked, one suspects, when you hit the button – means you can flip between the "Edit" and "View" tabs without thinking about it.Then I noticed another tab: "open in Word". Clicked on it, in the hope of getting an instant download. But ah, no, to do that you have to be "running a supported version of Microsoft Word and a browser that supports opening files directly from the Office Web Apps".The next thing to try: sharing the document. This is a process that can be done from inside the document with Google; in Office Web Apps, it's a whole different place altogether. (You get a warning that you've leaving the page, so do you want to save your changes? Sighing, you agree that you do, while wondering if they've really never heard of Autosave in Redmond. Or never tried Google Apps?)Sharing is done neatly, with a slider. Pity that you have to pretty much close down everything else to do it in the first placeThe Edit Permissions tabs is rather neat – a slider from "some friends" to "friends" to "friends of friends" to "Everyone". Or you can specify people. Just as with Google, which enforces a Google account, your friends will need a Live.com account. But they're free, and mostly painless. However, you can't make a world-editable document – which can actually be useful (we used one tocrowdsource Oracle and Sun's list of takeovers last year, for instance).Now that you've viewed and/or shared your document, Word Web App concedes that you can download it too.Having saved the document, youthenget the option to download it to your computer – the left-hand sidebar in the "File" tab changes to include it.This is, again,terribledesign. Menus which don't have consistent contents are confusing to the user, because you don't know when a particular element is going to be there. (How should it be done? Have the "download document" option all the time, but either gray it out, or if someone invokes it before saving, prompt them to save or name the file.)How and why did Word Web App add quotation marks to the name of the file? That's more bad user experience.So I downloaded the file – which came down with the most remarkable name. Instead of beingtest document1.docxit was called"test document1.docx"– the quotes are there too. That's terrible, frankly. It wasn't called that when it started (because, you'll recall, I wasn't allowed to use any such extras in the filename).I actually had to edit the filename (to remove the characters that would have been illegal in the cloud) before I could open it. Terrible piece of work, Microsoft.PowerPoint Web App saves your work automatically. Is there a mystical reason why Word Web App can't?So I turned toPowerPoint Web App, thinking that this would surely be awful. It turns out not to be the case: for a start, it saves automatically.On seeing that, one's instant reaction is: "Why not do that in Word Web App too?" Possibly the answer is that these come from different programming teams – but the lack of a consistent UI in a product that needs to be impressive, because it's competing against something from Google that's already there and is plenty good enough, is bad.PowerPoint Web App, like Word Web App, doesn't offer download until you've viewed your document as well as saved it. Consistent - but mad.Again with PowerPoint Web App, there's the File/Home/Insert/View tabs. When you click on "File" you get told there's no save (but, Microsoft, why not just say "PowerPoint Web App saves your file regularly. Click to learn more" instead of making people go and read an explanation?). Still no Download option, you'll notice: again, you don't get that until you click on the View button. That, at least, is consistent – but it's stupid. Why do I need to stop editing, do a save andviewmy work in order to download it?Then we come to the other problem with Skydrive and the Web Apps: they're not always the snappiest. I got to see a lot of the "Loading…" button. Fortunately, you can generally drive it along by simply reloading the web page. But again, given that this is a product in its earliest days, not in wide-scale adoption, is it really too hard to keep up with the user?Uploading can be done, quite easily; just not directly into a document. But problems lie ahead...Uploading documents:It turns out that you can – just not from inside any of the apps. (There must be a mental partition in the Microsoft mind: you're either in the filesystem, or you're editing a document. But what if you're inside a document and you need to add in another document? Google lets you do this, a direct injection; Microsoft doesn't. You'd have to open one document, copy the text, close it, open the second document, and paste. More steps, but of course completely logical if you're used to a desktop model. Exceptwe're not on the desktop any more.Next up:Excel Web App.This actually worked quite neatly. I uploaded a spreadsheet from my desktop to the files area, and then opened it – though Office Web Apps complained it was in the "wrong" (I suspect Office 2007) format, and made a great play of converting it to a different one – which I suspect was .xlsx, as there's no obvious difference between them seen in a list. (Another mistake, Microsofties. You need to see the suffixes of files online if they're stored and have the same names.)One of these is the originally uploaded file, and the other was converted by Office Web App into a format it can work with. But which is which? Why should you have to think about it?Excel Web App runs smoothly, and is actually the best implementation of these three: you don't get bothered about the difference between "editing" and "viewing", you can download a snapshot or the entire spreadsheet, and it autosaves. That's more like it. It's even quite fast. And while it doesn't have the (desktop) option of inserting a chart – unlike Google Docs, where you can – it's tolerably good. I got the impression that the expectation was that this would be the most-used of the three.On balance, though, this product has a long way to go.If you saw this and didn't know the brand name, you'd say that this was a company which didn't really get the web: where's the embed code, so you can include a spreadsheet or presentation in another web page? You'd say that it hasn't picked up on autosaving, that it seems to have learnt little or nothing from Google's implementation, and that it must have been done in a terrible rush, since the user interface (UI) quirks stand out like a sore thumb; you could get used to them, but you'd have to adapt to them, rather than using a program that smoothly tried to get out of your way.If someone then whipped off the sheet and said "Look – it's from Microsoft!" you might well say "oh, that explains it, then." I still find it amazing that with so many people, Microsoft can't get good UI designers. Or perhaps it can, but they're buried in layers of management too deep to effect change. That's a pity: Google needs some good competition in this space, like anyone. Office Web Apps aren't that, yet.Office Web Apps from MicrosoftPros:Free; works on range of browsers; supports wide range of functions, particularly in Excel. Can interact directly with newest version of Office.Cons:Maddeningly and unnecessarily confusing and inconsistent UI; insists on saving in Office 2007 (.docx, xlsx, pptx) format; often slow; no charting option in Excel; no autosave in Word; no upload-into-file option; no "embed" function (to include a spreadsheet in a separate web page).live.com
I've just come back from a month-long, multi-city, US and Canada book tour for my new novel, For the Win. I've done book tours before, but this one was different: this was the tour with an Android Nexus One phone, and it was game-changing.I've been told about the coming mobile revolution for 20 years now, but frankly, mobile phones are generally rubbish. The carriers are awful and abusive. The apps suck. And so on. Something's changed.Take directions: Google Maps are, of course, thene plus ultraof navigation, so having them in your pocket is powerful. But combine that with Android's stellar turn-by-turn directions, which incorporates Google's traffic data to get you round the terrible snarls, and things getreallyeasy. What's more, the ability to program the map destination by speaking it (Google's various voice apps have given it improbably good voice-recognition performance, producing a training set that is wide and deep), or by photographing it on a printout (using the Google Goggles app that converts images to words to Google searches), felt futuristic and deeplyright.Young adult book tours involve a lot of school visits, often in deep suburbs that the media escorts supplied by your publisher aren't that familiar with (these escorts often come armed with confusing Mapquest printouts that seem to come from an earlier century). When you're not running late to a tour stop, you're often running early, with just enough time to stop for a cup of coffee and a snack. Add Google location search to that and you can avoid going to a petrol station or (even worse) McDonald's or Dunkin' Donuts and find hidden gems that you'd have to be a local to get at otherwise. I ate better on this tour than I ever have before.I "rooted" my Nexus One, breaking into the OS so that I could easily "tether" it to my laptop, using it as a 3G modem between tour stops (we didn't have to root my wife's matching phone, as Google supplied us with an unlocked developer handset). My typical tour day started at 5am with breakfast and work on the novel, then a 6am interview with someone in Europe, then pickup, two to four school visits with a short lunch break, three or four interviews, then a bookstore signing or a plane (or both). As busy as that sounds, there's actually a fair bit of dead time in it while sitting in the escort's car, trying to find the next stop.This time round, I plugged the laptop into the cigarette lighter and the phone into the laptop – this gave the phone a battery charge and the laptop internet access. And best of all, it meant that I could harvest those dead minutes to answer emails, keep on blogging, and generally stay abreast of things.Which meant that I gotlotsmore of the touring author's most precious commodity: sleep. On previous tours, returning to the hotel meant sitting down for three to four hours' worth of emails before bed, which cut my sleep time to less than four hours some nights. But this time round, I got back to the room completely caught up, and was able to flop down in bed, eat some minibar cashews, and hit the sack.Travelling with your own internet source is brilliant. At Atlanta airport, I was stuck for four hours while a monster storm hammered the building with barrages of lightning. Immediately, every one of the expensive Wi-Fi networks in the building went dead as thousands of stranded travellers tried to use them all at once. I found a corner with a mains outlet, plugged in the laptop, tethered my phone, and enjoyed my own private network connection. It wasn't fast, but it was free and it worked.I still have a US T-Mobile account from when I lived in the US, and I pay for the unlimited data plan there (which, like the Orange UK Sim I use here, has a bizarre and fraudulent definition of "unlimited" that includes a data cap). It's easily worth keeping the account alive for those times that I'm back in the US – one day's 3G savings (not having to pay for expensive hotel and airport broadband) pays for a month's mobile service.But when I travel to places where I don't have a Sim, such as France or Germany, where I'll be touring in September, it's not pretty. Orange charges nearly £1 per megabyte, and its bolt-on Euro traveller plans charge something like £30 for 30MB, and limit you to 30MB per month. I can't figure out who the putative customer for this is: the travelling exec whoreallyneeds email on the road, but receives a tiny trickle of email every day, apparently.The most absurd part is when you take an Orange UK Sim to France (France Telecom being Orange's parent company) or a T-Mobile Sim to Germany (Deutsche Telekom has the same relationship to T-Mobile except in the UK, where it's a joint venture with France Telecom) and the company charges an extortionate roaming charge for using their parent company's network, on the grounds that they're "different companies".Which is the fundamental paradox of mobile – so long as the mobile carriers remain a part of mobile computing, it will only work for so long as you don't go anywhere.•Cory Doctorow's new novel, For The Win, is out now
Thundering through 10 titles and a series of other announcements, Electronic Arts charged into E3 2010 with a predictably solid, safe line-up, though there were one or two intriguing asides.The opening gambit was confirmation of the latest Need For Speed title – Hot Pursuit – which will be developed by Burnout creator Criterion. From here, there were some new snippets from Medal of Honor, Dead Space 2, Crysis 2, Bulletstorm, Sims 3, EA Sports MMA, and Star Wars: The Old Republic – all titles we're familiar with. The only other revelations wereBattlefield Bad Company 2 Vietnam, a multiplayer expansion pack for the hit shooter, and two services:Gunclub, which is a sort of loyalty card scheme for FPS fans, andEA Sports Live Broadcast, which invites gamers to take part in online spectator sports with genuine prizes and "an audience of thousands".So here are the bits that interested us …Need For Speed: Hot Pursuitlooked as you'd expect – and want: a hyper fast, drift happy drive-'em-up with detailed collision physics, flashy environments and exciting chases. Apparently, you'll get to attempt the career mode as either a racer or, for the first time, a cop, and there's an online Need for Speed Autolog mode which lets you compare stats with your friends and get "personalised gameplay recommendations" from them.It's out on November 16.ForMedal of Honor, studio manager Sean Decker got 24 co-workers on stage to show off the multiplayer Team Assault mode. The level we saw was based in Kabul and was all about close-quarters combat with lots of stairwells, alleyways and rat runs winding through the decimated city environment.With its dusty streets, breezeblock buildings and flat roof sniping spots, it's a dead ringer for several Modern Warfare maps – always likely considering the similarity in settings. When one player calls in an air strike and we get a bomb's eye view as it hurtles toward the ground, journalists whooped in delight but must surely have also seen the parallels with Infinity Ward's titles. Interestingly, that developer's ex-studio heads, Jason West and Vince Zampella, were in the audience, placed at the front to represent their new studio, Respawn Entertainment, which has a publishing deal with EA Partners. Anyway, Medal of Honor is out on October 12, with a multiplayer beta starting on June 21.The EA Sports stuff was … well … EA Sports stuff. TheMMAtitle looks as solid and muscular as one of the sport's competitors, featuring the whole range of fighting styles from Thai boxing to Greco-Roman wrestling. With the new EA Sports Live Broadcast feature, you'll be able to create a character, film a video of yourself smack talking, then enter into online tournaments.EA Sports Active 2is set to bring the fitness title from Wii to Xbox (with Kinect support, naturally) and PS3, featuring more than 70 exercises and a heart rate monitor which you place on your arm to gain detailed feedback on the effectiveness of your regime. That's out on November 16.I won't even pretend to understand theMadden NFL 11section, but Peter Moore promised a more accessible "game calling system", as well as three vs three online teamplay.The Sims 3, which is also migrating to consoles, looks like a robust continuation of the interactive soap opera, allowing users to test out life-changing decisions on their virtual humans – with hilarious consequences. Executive producer Rod Humble talked about the emergent nature of the gameplay, the fact that even the developers cannot predict what the AI characters will do. He then launched into a Kantian debate about the nature of free will, which was interesting, though somewhat unexpected during a video game press conference.A newCrysis 2demo showed some absolutely stunning images of New York being torn apart amid pitch futuristic battles. The action plays out in Grand Central Station, where you're battling tank-like robots, who smash in through the windows. Then the camera looks up, just in time to see a skyscraper starting to collapse. The gargantuan edifice pile-drives into the station building just as the player escapes on an armoured car. It's Cloverfield, but with tanks, guns and armies. The crowd went wild.Finally, there was more insane footage fromBulletstorm, the OTT sci-fi shooter from People Can Fly, that's due out on 22 February 2011. I've already banged on about this one, but the new demo showed lots more combo carnage, including grabbing an enemy with the electric lasso, pulling him toward the player character, shooting him in the face then kicking him into an electrified piece of machinery. The dialogue is as insane as ever.When one of the two macho lead characters thinks the other has just collapsed and died, he screams, "you scared the dick off me!" Quite touching really.So yes, typical EA really – high on bombast and energy, with some trendy customer retention extras thrown in for good measure. In his opening speech John Riccitiello seemed to be trying to compare the event to the Sundance film festival. I'm not sure that Robert Redford, who helped set up the famed movie event with the aim of supporting independent filmmakers and offbeat creativity, will appreciate the analogy.
Accept for a moment thatMicrosoft's new Kinect(what used to be known as Project Natal, a name we much preferred) is the idea of Minority Report's gesture interface come true. You know, wave your arms about and things get done (even if you do have to pass people USB sticks from across the room.)Now for our next question: what other technologies forecast in other films have come to reality? Anything from Blade Runner? Or from Total Recall? Or from The Matrix (err.. the phones were thevery latestMotorolas, so don't say "the phones")?Yes, this is a bit similar to "the best technology moments in film", but slightly different: we're asking about films which predicted some sort of technology, and where that technology has then - voila! - turned up in real life.(And yes we know too about all the "pre-crime" stuff that's been happening which also mirrors Minority Report. But let's have your input from the other films..)
The writer of the new Doctor Who games for PC and Mac describes how the process differs from writing for TV.  And Josh Williams, CEO of location based social network Gowalla talks takeovers and the future of the service. Plus this week's tech news.
Microsoft's latest attempt to take over the video game market was revealed in Los Angeles yesterday with the launch of Kinect, a completely hands-free device designed to woo gamers away from the hugely successful Wii.Nintendo's Wii has trounced its rivals since its release in 2006, with about 70m of the consoles sold worldwide – 30m more than Microsoft's Xbox 360. But with its new motion-sensing gadget, Bill Gates's firm hopes to win the gaming battle by focusing on the "living room" market for non-fiddly, family-friendly games.Previously known under the codename Project Natal, the Kinect plugs into the Xbox 360 console. It uses a video camera, infrared sensor and microphone to track players' actions and commands and convert them into on-screen movement.So while the Wii requires players to wave around plastic controllers as they bowl, box or play tennis in their living room, Kinect goes a step further, by removing the need for any sort of handheld input. Players simply move their own bodies and shout at the console in order to control their on-screen characters.The easy setup is designed to appeal to casual players and newcomers, rather than hardcore gamers, analysts said."There's only so much headway you can make until you bring mums into the equation. There's lots of kids and mums who want to have an interactive experience together," said Mike Delman, vice-president of global marketing for Microsoft's interactive entertainment division.Philip Oliver, CEO of the British developer Blitz Games, which is working on Kinetic titles, said: "Xbox 360 did serve the hardcore gamers well with racers and shooters but they didn't capture the family market, the market that Nintendo captured so well with the Wii. Now [Microsoft] have got a very powerful machine with the functionality that they hope will make incredibly great casual games."At a pre-launch event in Los Angeles yesterday, Microsoft showed clips from several Kinect games, including an athletics simulation in which participants run and jump to compete in the hurdles, throw an imaginary javelin, and play football with kicking actions. There was also a yoga simulation, white-water rafting and a dancing tuition game called Dance Central, which gets users to perform a series of steps and moves in time with pop music, including tracks by Lady Gaga.Several Kinect games will be closely compatible with Twitter and Facebook, allowing users to send screenshots of themselves playing the games. Microsoft has so far delayed announcing a price for the device, but expects to release it in the autumn, and is ready to launch a redesigned slimline version of the Xbox 360 console.EA Sports Active 2 is demonstrated on the new Xbox 360 Kinect. Photograph: Gus Ruelas/ReutersOnce considered a transitory pursuit for teenage boys, gaming has now become a mainstream entertainment medium, with games such as Wii Fit, Rock Band and Professor Layton and the Curious Village attracting a vast new family audience. So far, however, these so-called casual gamers have been put off by the Xbox, with its reliance on hardcore shooters such as Gears of War and Halo. But Microsoft did not completely ignore its traditional audience at the event; perhaps the loudest cheer of the night erupted when a demo was shown of a Kinect-compatible Star Wars game, in which players will be able to flail their arms around in order to compete in light-sabre duels with Darth Vader and his stormtroopers.Kinect is likely to enjoy a multimillion-pound marketing push in the runup to Christmas – but Microsoft is not alone in its desire to steal Nintendo's audience. Sony is set to provide the PlayStation 3 console with its own motion controller, named PlayStation Move. The wandlike device, which more closely resembles the Wii's remote controller, is also due out in the autumn, putting it in direct competition with Kinect.The Kinect announcement is set to be one of many video game revelations this week. Today sees the beginning of the E3 games exhibition at the LA Convention centre, an annual event at which all the major games firms show off their new releases to thousands of journalists, bloggers and game fans who have been able to blag their way into the trade-only bonanza. Among the big games are likely to be first-person shooters Halo: Reach and Killzone 3; historical assassination adventure Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood; and the intriguingly dark Disney title, Epic Mickey.Some pundits, however, reckon the focus of the three-day exhibition could be another emerging technology: 3D visuals. Nintendo will be showing its new 3D-capable handheld console, the Nintendo 3DS, while Sony is expected to have a selection of 3D-compatible PlayStation titles on show, including the long-awaited driving sim, Gran Turismo 5.This year, it's perhaps not about what we're going to play, it's about HOW we're going to play: by jumping about, or by putting on a pair of special glasses and revelling in three-dimensional graphics. One thing is clear, after the massive investment Sony and Microsoft have put into their respective consoles, neither is in a hurry to announce a new platform just yet.The audience at the launch event was treated to an astonishing performance by Cirque du Soleil, who used dance, lights and special effects to communicate Microsoft's brand vision – a far cry from the usual recipe of awkward upper-ranking execs lurking on stage while game demos play to deafening rock music. Unfortunately, the impact of the event was slightly undermined when an Italian advert for the Xbox 360 was put online too early, revealing the new name for the Natal hours before the official announcement. Although the ad was quickly withdrawn, news of the blunder spread across Twitter in a matter of minutes.The Kinect peripheral for the new Xbox 360 console. Photograph: Michal Czerwonka/Getty Images
Followinglast week's warningsabout a serious security vulnerability in Flash, Adobe has posted version 10.1 of its player - which seems to fix the vulnerability. If you're using Flash (and that's pretty much everyone except you iPhone/iPod Touch/iPad users), then you shouldupdate.There's some explanation of how to do that too atMicrosoft's Clubhouse("the place to have some fun by showing others what you know about Windows and to learn new tricks and tips every day" - no exclamation mark included, apparently). There we note some of the sneakier stuff involved in getting you to update your system:"If you use the Adobe Flash Player Download Center, be careful to UNCHECK the box shown below. It is not needed for the Flash Player update!"Flash update pushes McAfee unless you untick the box. Classy.Sneaky, that - trying to get you to install McAfee Security Scan Plus when all you actually want is an update of Flash.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
An IBM keyboard: great for inputting cheques to the company. Photo bymrbillon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDefra suppliers paid 2009/10 &gt;&gt; COINS examinedHow exactly did Defra spend £82m on IBM in 2009/10? (Out of a total spend of £353m - that's 23% of all its spending, since you ask.)ISP Attempt To Block File-Sharing Ends in Epic Failure &gt;&gt; TorrentFreak"Whoever set up the security on the server admin panel didn't do a very good job. The username was set to 'admin' and the password set to 'admin' too. This morning that gaping hole was still open." Ooh, that's not good. Especially because it means you could send malware to people who thought they were protecting their kids from malware and similar stuff on p2p networks.O2 Users Plan Data-mashing Protest Against New Tariffs &gt;&gt; Next Web"A protest, called O2 Data Day, is being planned for 24 June, when the organisers hope that O2 customers will consume mobile data all day to show just how angry they are at the change."Ofcom approves Freeview HD copy-protection, which is bad &gt;&gt; Tumbled LogicMo McRoberts warned about copy protection on Freeview HD during Ofcom's consultation. Ofcom didn't listen.Update: Apple Rethinks Its 'Ulysses' Ban &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comSo Apple decided that Ulysses as a graphic novel was obscene. Then it wasn't. Has anyone tried to put Lady Chatterley's Lover on there yet?When users first encounter Ubuntu: six showstoppers &gt;&gt; Canonical DesignFile compatibility, lack of feedback about the system, jargon, Flash, confusingly-described software, and the problems of adding a printer. But read in detail..http://www.unrealircd.com/txt/unrealsecadvisory.20100612.txt &gt;&gt; Gentoo team/Unreal IRCSo there was a back door in Unreal IRC since, er, quite a while. Check your MD5s, Gentoo users.Compatibility tables for features in HTML5, CSS3, SVG and other upcoming web technologies &gt;&gt; When can I use...Interesting how far behind Internet Explorer 9 is.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Vodafone has - oops! - leaked details of its iPhone 4 pricing. Which, since you can pre-order them from Tuesday 15th, means that it's not much of a leak, but on the other hand you'd think the networks might have got their pricing out earlier.The numbers were accidentally leaked by Vodafone and captured from its datasheets byEngadget(whence we've copied them) reader Liam Gladdy, and we've got them here now for you.iPhone4 16GB Vodafone pricing detailsNote that the white version seems to be the 16GB one, and the black one is your 32GB one. Pore over the details and tell us your thoughts.iPhone4 32GB Vodafone pricing
The queue to get into Microsoft's Natal announcement. Photo bypopculturegeek.comon Flickr.Some rights reservedJust to point out that Keith Stuart is over at E3 to report on, well, everything that's happening there.You can follow the liveblogs from the conference -here's the Xbox one, as if you'd missed it.But we want you to tell us whatyouthink of it.There's three ways to do that:- send comments togamesblog@gmail.com- on Twitter, send a message to@gdngames(you don't have to be following @gdndames, though you do have to be on Twitter.. see,other people already are)- on Twitter, tag your tweet with the hashtag#gdne3(look, lots of other people already are!)So don't just read about E3 - join in too.
With the renaming of Project Natal, Microsoft's motion based control system for the Xbox 360, Microsoft faces the challenge of differentiating its re-branded Kinect device from its immediate competitors – Sony's PlayStation Move and the venerable Nintendo Wii.Games on show at the Kinect launch event included a yoga simulator and a compilation of sports mini-games, while attendees also saw a the demonstration of a Star Wars game during which the player seemed not to be controlling the action on screen, a fact noted on1Up: "They had the dad pretend to control a CG trailer for about a minute."Engadgethas described the game as "pretty badass-looking" and argued that the Kinect's user interface "is about as simple as could be".Besides Star Wars, however,Kotakuhas suggested that the Kinect's games – rafting, bowling, "Kinectimals" — are slightly too similar to those already available for the Wii. "We're not excusing Sony from creating Wii game clones here", they say, but "we were expecting more from Kinect. We'll wait and see what E3 has in store for Microsoft's Kinect, but right now we're not that impressed."Rory Cellan-Jones, writing on theBBC website, was not fully convinced by the control system itself: "It seemed to work well on fun Wii-like games where you didn't need too much precision – I'm not so sure whether it would deliver on a first-person shooter."PlayStationLifestyle.nethas picked up on the similarities between the Kinect and existing products. They note that many of the games on show "bore an awfully close resemblance to the titles included with Nintendo's Wii Sports title", and whileStuff Magazinecould see potential in the device for members of the casual gaming market, "they all already own Wiis. Shame."Gizmodoparticularly notes the aesthetic similarities between the device and the Playstation 3, describing it simply as "so shiny" – a theme which fits with the design of the rumoured new, smaller Xbox 360 which has been reported over onKotaku. This new machine is rumoured to have a 250GB hard drive, wi-fi connectivity in addition to compatibility with Kinect.Sam Kennedy from1Upargues: "To be honest, most of my friends in the press thought it was a complete joke. Like, this thing is a freaking glorified EyeToy and Microsoft is spending ridiculous amounts of money trying to convince people otherwise."As for the high profile Cirque du Soleil demonstration that accompanied the announcement, Kennedy felt that "in terms of any sort of performance, which I guess I was expecting from this event, it was slightly disappointing".John Young atEntertainment Weeklyargued that despite the emphasis on style over substance, "long story short, I'm just thankful Microsoft put on such a lavish, jaw-dropping, and bizarre production. Whatever it was that I experienced Sunday night, I doubt anything else at E3 is going to top it. That was truly something."Reporters fromkotaku.comwere bemused at the large white ponchos they were required to wear while watching the show, asking: "Are those choir robes? Some sort of disco Jedi outfits?"
The Sony PSP is almost the forgotten handheld console. Compared to the ever changing and ever popular Nintendo DS and iPhone/iPod Touch (and now the iPad), the PSP feels like yesterday's toy.Last year's neat but commercially underperforming download-only PSPGo didn't help matters either and a skimpy release schedule shows publishers are not sold either. Which is a shame as the PSP has always been the best handheld for gamers who want the depth of a 360 or PS3 game on the go. Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker is a classic example. This is a truly epic PSP game with a lengthy main game supplemented by numerous objectives and challenges.The meat of the game is the standard mission-based Metal Gear Solid action. So think lengthy cut-scenes, unfathomable plots and lots of sneaking and subtle dispatching of guards.  The good news is that the cut-scenes and plot have both been toned down for this handheld instalment and you are never too far away from the action. Less impressive is the inability to save anywhere – you can bet you'll be stuck fighting an end of level boss character while trying to jump off a bus or train. You will need as few distractions as possible too as some typical Metal Gear Solid difficulty spikes – particularly in boss battles – crop up more often than is enjoyable.As always with Metal Gear games, stealth is key. Jumping in all guns blazing simply multiplies your threat and usually ends your mission. Mercy is rewarded too, with those enemies you have knocked out rather than shot getting scooped out of the battlefield and added to your growing back at base army. This army is crucial, with captured troops used for combat, intelligence and research. This ongoing development – and the new gear you get from it – is an addictive sidegame in itself.The controls are a little fiddly – though not in Monster Hunter league – but there are plenty of configuration options. The graphics are generally impressive too, and prove that the PSP can more than hold its own.Overall, there is a lot to like here. The depth of the game means this is a console game you play on your handheld rather than a perfectly created portable experience. But gamers would expect nothing less from the Metal Gear brand. Peacewalker may renew interest in the PSP or it may just be the last great game for the original PSP. Either way, this a must for PSP owners.
