Pain is one of those things that you shouldn't teach people about through direct experience. The Science Museum has fortunately conceded to this, so for its new exhibition on pain and pain relief – the snappily titledPain Less– the organisers have commissioned a game that seeks to explore the subject without anyone getting hurt.Available online and through touch screens at the museum itself,Ouch, gives players the job of protecting a brain from incoming pain signals. There are a variety of 'weapons' at your disposal: placebos are plentiful but erratic in their usefulness; painkillers are more reliable but you build up a tolerance, and venom (whichlooks likeit may be used as a pain killer in the future) is a powerful but rare topical pain blaster.In effect, it's the classic arcade gameMissile Command, but with lightening bolts of pain replacing incoming missiles. And it's quite compelling too, especially because you get to select the form of pain your character experiences at the start of each level. Do you fancy being stabbed in the arm with an arrow or having a heavy weight dropped on your foot? These are choices we rarely get to make in games, let alone real life.Developed by digital agencyThoughtDen, the design was created with 13-year-old students from the Langley Academy in Berkshire. "It's not often we involve the audience in concept generation," said creative director, Ben Templeton. "It was a fun way to kick off and means the game strikes a good balance between what the museum want to teach people and the level of playabilty young people have come to expect".The Science Museum now regularly uses simple Flash games to explore facets of its exhibitions, reflecting a trend throughout the museum and exhibition sector. Last month, the Wellcome Foundation ran a two-day coding event, inviting PhD students to turn their research projects into games, while the British Museum has a range of interactive toys includingTime Explorers, an adventure about ancient civilisations.I've been playing Ouch for about twenty minutes now and savagely bashing the mouse button to deliver placebos is making my wrist ache. Surely the most ironic gaming injury ever.
Feature phone sales are in decline,new figures for the third quarter of 2012 from Gartnershow - but the smartphone business is booming, with shipments rising by 47% year-on-year, and Android is behind a huge amount of that growth.Google's four-year-old mobile software powered 122m new handsets during the three months from July to September, an average run rate of 1.3m every day.Almost half of those Android handsets- 49.6%, or 60.5m - are sold in the Asia/Pacific region, according to figures provided separately to the Guardian by Gartner.Feature phone v Android shipments by region, 3Q 2012. Source: GartnerAndroid shipments to North America totalled 18.9m, and to western Europe 18.4m, according to the figures.Overall, smartphone sales at 169.2m made up 39.6% of the total mobile phone market, a new high.Twilight of the feature phoneBut feature phones, which lack internet capabilities, continued their decline in shipments, falling by 20% year-on-year to 258m, the fifth straight quarter of increasingly rapid contraction. Their total sales peaked in the fourth quarter of 2010 - ironically, the same period in which smartphones outsold PCs for the first time, a trend that has continued ever since.Feature phone sales are dwindling: v smartphones, from 1Q 2007 - 3Q 2012. Source: GartnerThe main engine of growth for smartphones, and Android - and the decline of feature phones - is China, where cheap smartphones running Android are taking over from feature phones.But Android phones alone are outselling feature phones in North America (18.9m v 13.2m), western Europe (18.4m v 11.1m) and Japan (5m v 1.5m).The biggest market for the feature phone - as for smartphones - remains the Asia/Pacific region, where 141.9m were sold.Samsung dominance - plus AppleSamsung shipped an estimated 50m Android smartphones - and another 5m smartphones running its own Bada OS.Carolina Milanesi, smartphones analyst at Gartner,notedthat Apple and Samsung together controlled 46.5% of the smartphone market, "leaving a handful of vendors fighting over a distant third spot".But Samsung dominated that field as it does the rest of the market: Apple made up 13.9% of the smartphone market, slightly down in share even though its shipment numbers grew by 36%, giving Samsung 32.6% of the entire smartphone market.Total smartphone growth by platform, 1Q 2007 - 3Q 2012. Source: GartnerBut Gartner forecast that the introduction of the iPhone 5 at the end of September means Apple's share will rise again: "We saw inventory built up into the channel as Apple prepared for the coming holiday season, global expansions and the launch into China in the fourth quarter of 2012," said Ashul Gupta, principal research analyst at Gartner. With the iPhone 5 launching in more territories in the fourth quarter of 2012, including China, and the upcoming holiday season, Gartner analysts expect Apple will have its traditionally strongest quarter.Besides Apple and Samsung, all the other smartphone vendors had single-digit shares of the market, with the largest being BlackBerry-maker RIM, which shipped 8.9m phones for a 5.3% share. The handset figure was a 30% fall from its shipment figure a year before, as its share halved from 11%.Smartphone platform shipments, 1Q 2007 - 3Q 2012, normalised to 100%. Data source: GartnerHTC, RIM and Windows Phone struggleHTC and RIM look particularly endangered, Gartner warned, pointing out that HTC's shipments dropped to 8.4 handsets, from 12.1m a year before. The company has been struggling to fight off Samsung and Apple in the US particularly.Microsoft's Windows Phone, whose main booster in the quarter was Nokia, shipped on just 4.1m phones - fewer than Nokia's deprecated Symbian, which ran 4.4m. "The arrival of the new Lumia devices on Windows 8 should help to halt the decline in share in the fourth quarter of 2012, although it won't be until 2013 that we see a significant improvement in Nokia's position," said Anshul Gupta, principal research analyst at Gartner.Milanesi forecast that "While seasonality in [the fourth quarter of 2012] will help end-of-year mobile phone sales, there will be a lower-than-usual boost from the holiday season. Consumers are either cautious with their spending or finding new gadgets like tablets, as more attractive presents."
"What's your BB pin?"The question is the ultimate social status badge for many young, urban Nigerians. Standing in front of a row of gleaming BlackBerry handsets in a Lagos phone shop, sales assistant Remi Olajuwon explained: "The average Nigerian has a very healthy interest in status and luxury. So if somebody asks for your BlackBerry pin and you don't have one&nbsp;…" she trailed off with a dismissive flick of her false eyelashes.Retailing at between $200 (£126) and $2,000 in a country where most live on less than $2 a day, the cost alone made it a status symbol, she added. "People come in to buy one just to show they've been promoted."Amid sagging sales in Europe and North America, developing markets offer a ray of hope for Research in Motion (RIM), after the maker of BlackBerry posted a $235m loss for the latest quarter. In Nigeria, South Africa and Egypt, Africa's three biggest economies, BlackBerrys outsold smartphone competitors this quarter. Kenya and Ghana also had buoyant sales, officials said.Around one sixth of Africa's 620 million active phone subscribers come from Nigeria. Half of Nigeria's 4 million smartphone owners use BlackBerrys, and use among the wealthiest segment of society is forecast to increase sixfold by 2016."There's a misconception Africans only want cheap phones [but] Nigeria is a key market for us. We're seen as an aspirational product," said RIM regional director Waldi Wepenerlast month, after the company opened its first Nigerian store in Lagos's computer village, a sprawling haven for tech junkies.With itsimage increasingly outdatedelsewhere, RIM hopes to capitalise on Nigeria's twin obsessions with status and communication. BlackBerry-related dramas flood newspapers' agony aunt pages. On social websites, debate rages as to whether a bride photographed using her phone during her wedding ceremony was reading an e-Bible, or was merely a BlackBerry addict. The Nollywood film industry, whose clunkily named movie titles are a good cultural barometer and include delights such as the "Fazebook Babes" series, has recently spawned the hit multisequel "BlackBerry Babes". The comedy follows a group of scantily clad university girls obsessed with getting the latest phones.The popularity of BlackBerrys in Nigeria is partly born of necessity. Erratic internet services and a nonexistent landline network are plugged by unlimited data bundles, costing about £12 a month. Unpredictable phone networks force those who can afford it to own two handsets."I already have another smartphone, but I need a BlackBerry pin number to socialise with friends and get babes. BlackBerry has an edge because of the pinging," George Emeka, a university student said, using the colloquial term for its instant messaging service.Others are getting more bang for their buck. Yahya Balogun, who lives in a Lagos slum, used eight months of savings to buy a secondhand model. The taxi driver has caught on to the growing number of high-end businesses who advertise and communicate using BlackBerry pin numbers as well as traditional means. "All my clients in [upmarket district] Victoria Island own BlackBerrys. It is a good investment," Balogun said.In his rundown district where extended families squeeze into single rooms, neighbours frequently browse on his phone. "My daughter can use the internet [for schoolwork]," said neighbour Tosin Alabi, his face lit by the screen's blue glow during a recent powercut. "Personally myself I can never pay 1,000 naira [£4] every week for internet. And the battery is terrible when I can go for two days without charging my own phone," he added, indicating a battered Nokia feature phone.Nokia's low-cost phones remain the top overall sellers across Africa, though affordable mid-range mobiles could also erode RIM's top-end dominance, analysts say. Last year, Chinese manufacturer Huawei gobbled up almost half of Kenya's smartphone market with the launch of its $100 devices powered by Google's Android software. RIM has felt the heat in South Africa, where, unlike Nigeria, mobile carriers offer packages with Apple iPhones. "You're only with it if you have an iPhone, preferably the iPhone 5, or Samsung Galaxy SIII," said Khayakazi Mgojo, based in Pretoria.A three-day loss of service across Africa and parts of Europe last year was the final straw for some. "I switched because BlackBerry was frustrating me with all its constant freezing at the most inconvenient times, short battery life and the daily reboots," Mgojo said. Nevertheless she added: "I still use it for social network because it's cheap compared to buying data bundles."RIM hopes to bat away growing competition in its most important African markets by releasing its jazzed up BlackBerry 10 software in South Africa and Nigeria at the same time as other global markets next year. "At a time when Nokia is strengthening its distribution arm in Nigeria and Apple has recently appointed its first official distributor … the opening of the first BlackBerry-branded retail store is a logical step [to remain] the country's No 1 smartphone vendor," said Nick Jotischky, an analyst with Informa Telecoms &amp; Media.And for the consumer there still seems a popular groundswell for RIM's best known product. Manzo George, a businessman who owns three BlackBerrys, said he had no plans to switch over to an Android phone anytime soon. "When people ask me why not try a new brand smartphone, I tell them there are smartphones and then there are BlackBerrys."OutsmartedThe once mighty BlackBerry is no longer a status symbol in western markets, but RIM hopes for a revival on 30 January with the release of its new operating system, BlackBerry 10.Caught in the crossfire between Apple and Android, RIM has lost market share. Its devices excel at email and instant messaging, making them popular with younger users who cannot afford big phone bills, but the company has been left behind because of its failure to create a smartphone that can efficiently navigate the wider web.RIM's worldwide market share stood at nearly 20% in 2009, says research firm Gartner, but has now fallen to 5%. While smartphone sales are booming, RIM's shipment volumes have fallen 57% in a year, according to IDC resaerch. In June the firm reported its first operating loss since 2004, and set out plans to shrink its headcount by a third, shedding 5,000 jobs.
Welcome to Thursday - any interesting plans for today?
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCommentary: Is it a blessing for Asustek to have Google backing? &gt;&gt; DigitimesDoes Google treat Asustek as a brand partner or an OEM supplier? John Lagerling, director of business development for Android, seems to have an answer to the question.When approached by the New York Times during a recent interview seeking a confirmation of Asustek's remarks that current shipments of the Nexus 7 have reached as many as one million units a month, Lagerling replied, "We haven't announced numbers. We typically don't allow our partners to announce numbers."The message clearly indicates that Google treats Asustek as an OEM partner, but not a dual-brand partner.In the worst-case scenario, Google may tie up with other vendors such as HTC and Lenovo to develop its next-generation Nexus tablets, which will place Asustek under fire from rivals vying for the Android tablet market.Asus(tek) in effect did announce Nexus 7 numbers, perhaps to Google's annoyance. But the commentary makes the point that the hopes of building its brand in the US via the N7 might be rapidly dashed; Google wants the Nexus brand purely for itself. OEMs might not find much margin in that. (Article may now be behind paywall.)Why Surface looks like the tablet Microsoft built for itself &gt;&gt; ZDNetThere's a test we use when trying to understand the products and strategies of technology companies. Who, we ask, is the real customer? The answer isn't always what you expect and it's always revealing.Smart piece, not only about the Surface.Nvidia CEO: Consumers realize a great tablet is better than a cheap PC &gt;&gt; VentureBeatGraphics chip giant Nvidia chief executive Jen-Hsun Huang said in a conference call with analysts today [8 Nov] that consumers realize "a great tablet is better than a cheap PC."That's an interesting statement coming from a PC industry leader who plays in both the PC and mobile markets. But Huang pointed out that in the most recent third fiscal quarter ended Oct. 28, 30% of Nvidia's revenues now come from non-PC chips, up from just 3% three years ago.Acer C7 Chromebook &gt;&gt; Google Play£199 and it's in stock! 11.6in display (1266x768), 2GB RAM, and - get this - a 320GB hard drive. That's a lot of (rotating) storage for a Chromebook. (Thanks @gvnmcknz for the link.)Samsung Releases Open Source Files For Android Galaxy EK-GC100 Camera | Popular PhotographyThe first serious thread about modifying the EK-GC100 seems to be geared towardsmaking it make phone calls, even if it's only through Skype.So, like a camera that has a phone. Or a phone with a camera. (Thanks @sputnikkers for the link.)Introducing Android 4.2, a new and improved Jelly Bean &gt;&gt; Android Developers' blogAmong the improvements:Users can now place interactive lock screen widgets directly on their device lock screens, for instant access to favorite apps and content. With just a small update, you can adapt any app widget to run on the lock screen. Daydream is an interactive screensaver mode that users can encounter when their devices are charging or docked in a desk dock. You can create interactive daydreams that users display in this mode, and they can include any type of content.Clever.The iPad Mini and the cost of Retina &gt;&gt; Marco.orgMarco Arment:Apple didn't make an arbitrary decision to withhold Retina on the Mini to save money, upsell more buyers to the iPad 4, or "force" the first generation of iPad Mini owners to upgrade next year. They chose not to ship a Retina iPad Mini because it would be significantly worse than the previous iPads in very important factors.This is going to spoil a lot of conspiracy theories.Google's Nexus 4 smartphone sells out In UK within hours of going on sale &gt;&gt; TechCrunchWe've reached out to Google to confirm the sales situation in Europe and will update with any response. (Update: Google said it has nothing to share on Nexus sales figures at this time.)Hurrah for openness, transparency and organising the world's knowledge and making it accessible..Live long and prosper SteveSi &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionHal Berenson:I was only momentarily shocked when I heard last night that Steven Sinofsky was leaving Microsoft.  It was momentary because a friend had told me months ago that Steven would be gone soon after Windows 8 launched.  The claim was that he had alienated most of Microsoft's senior leadership, if not the bulk of the executive staff.Berenson is a longtime (though now ex) Microsoftie. And it's true, Sinofsky does look a little.. Vulcan.Windows 95 Tips, Tricks, and Tweaks &gt;&gt; Tumblr"Touch your monitor. It is warm, like flesh. But it is not flesh. Not yet."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Time was, in the olden days, that in order to create a video game, or&nbsp;fund a film or album, or make a comic, you needed a generous and deep-pocketed patron, or a corporation behind you which thought there was something – profit, in other words – in it for them. There might have even been a grant from an arts body somewhere. Remember them?Crowdfunding, where large numbers of people donate small sums of money to a project, has changed that.Kickstarteris not the first online funding site for creative projects –ArtistSharewas launched in 2003 to enable musicians to bypass&nbsp;record labels, and was followed by other sites such asIndieGogo– but&nbsp;it&nbsp;has gained the most traction and&nbsp;attention.Since the site launched in April 2009, more than 2.5 million people have helped to successfully back more than 30,000 creative projects. It has helped fund Oscar-nominated short films and put new products on the market. Earlier this year,the creators of a watch that can wirelessly connect to a smartphone raised more than $10m (£6m)on&nbsp;the site after being turned down by traditional investors. The singerAmanda Palmerraised $1.2m (£745,000) to record her album and tour; this week, the film director David Fincher reached his goal to fund part of an animated film. In October,a&nbsp;role-playing game developer raised nearly $4m(£2.5m) from more than 73,000 backers. The site estimates that around 10% of the films accepted into the Sundance and Tribeca film festivals this year were funded by Kickstarter.Until recently, British projects have been&nbsp;hosted on the site, but the funds have needed to go through a US bank account and so they needed a US resident as a co-creator. In November, the site launched properly in the UK, and in the first week, 171 projects were put on the site, raising more than&nbsp;£500,000."From the beginning, the philosophy and the motivation behind this has been to be a platform for people to create things and put more art and creative work out into the world," says Yancey Strickler, head of community and one of the site's three co-founders. "The economy for funding creativity is one that is driven by profit and there really isn't a lot of space for people who&nbsp;want to make art for art's sake."Each project is judged solely by its own ambitions and not by the ambitions of gatekeepers or the broader market. It's communities of individuals deciding what they want to see exist."Projects are chosen, he says, according to the rules of the site. "It has to have a finite goal. It's not open-ended, it's not funding a career; it's making a record or a film. There are things we don't allow, such as a lot of product-type things." They have to fit one of the 13 creative categories, which include art, technology, dance, film, music and food (the site has helped fund new food products and pop-up restaurants). There is a time limit – if the creators don't reach their goal, money is returned to the backers. If they do reach their goal, backers are given rewards – anything from an executive producer credit on a&nbsp;film to first copies of a comic.Launching a projectis far from a guaranteed success– less than half of the Kickstarter projects reach their funding goal, and around 12% don'treceive a single pledge. For those projects that are wildly successful and far exceed their target, it brings new problems as creators are left fulfilling afar larger number of orders for a product than they expected.According toa study of design and technology projectson Kickstarter by Ethan Mollick, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania, only a quarter delivered their rewards on time. The famous Pebble watch has missed its delivery deadline, andlast weekend its creators admitted it still hadn't even gone into mass production. Because many of the tech products funded by the site do not exist – the point of the funding is to create them and bring them to market – Kickstarter has beencriticised for "selling" a "hypothetical future product"that may never materialise.For artists, there is a danger that backers expecting a finished product can put pressure on the creative process. People who funded one musician, Josh Dibb from Animal Collective, to go on a trip to Mali in 2009 have complained they have not received their side of the deal – photographs and a CD of music inspired by the trip; Dibb has said he wasn't happy with the music he wrote.The flipside of fans becoming directly involved in the funding of a project is that they rightly have an interest in where and how the money is spent. Amanda Palmerposted a breakdownof how the money she raised would be spent, and some people criticised her for the amount allocated to pay off debts ($250,000) and produce art books for backers. She faced further criticism after, having raised more than 10 times what she had asked for in the first place,she asked local musicians to play with her band for free on her tour(she soon agreed to pay them).Creators, and the site, are clearly still feeling their way through the implications of crowdfunding (in September, for instance, Kickstarterintroduced new guidelinesfor design and technology projects to avoid disappointed backers. "The internet has created the opportunity for people to express what they want and Kickstarter gives them the tool to follow it through," says Strickler. "When I'm supporting some band [through the site] I love, I'm not 'shopping' in the record store, I'm creating alongside them. I get to see the thing happen and be part of the process and know that I made a contribution. I&nbsp;think the emotional resonance that comes with that is huge."Here are some of the projects that reached their funding goals. How was it for them?The RoboCop statue: Brandon Walley, 35Community arts developer, DetroitThe statue of RoboCop that is due to be erected in Detroit came about through several of the internet's giants: it began on Twitter, moved to Facebook, and ended on Kickstarter. Early last year, the mayor of Detroit, Dave Bing, sought suggestions on Twitter for how to help regenerate the city."Someone responded and said Detroit needed a RoboCop statue because Philadelphia had a Rocky one," says Brandon Walley of the&nbsp;community arts project Imagination Station. "The mayor thanked them for their comment and said there were no plans to do that, which is understandable – the city shouldn't invest precious resources into something like&nbsp;that – but it got some attention and&nbsp;started to go a little viral online. A&nbsp;friend put up a Facebook page with the title 'Detroit needs a RoboCop statue', and within 24 hours it had a&nbsp;few thousand fans."Walley, who had worked on a number of community arts projects, some of them crowdfunded, agreed and the non-profit arts organisation he works for "thought maybe this was crazy enough to work. We worked out it would cost around $50,000 to build a statue between seven and 10-feet tall. There was a lot of momentum between the Facebook page and Kickstarter page, and we reached the&nbsp;amount on the sixth day of a 45-day campaign."In March 2011, they raised more than $67,000 (£41,500) from more than&nbsp;2,700 people. Why does he think people donated to this project? "I&nbsp;think there are different layers. It hit&nbsp;the sweet spot for a lot of people – RoboCop is a cult classic. There's a really strong passion for it." In the film,&nbsp;set in the near future, Detroit is portrayed as a&nbsp;place that has suffered decay and decline; in real life, that is also true, though the city is regenerating. "There is a lot happening in Detroit, and I think there is a place for the arts – even something as potentially silly as&nbsp;a RoboCop statue."He admits some people in the city were against the idea. "There was concern: 'Is this important?' or 'What sort of image does it portray?' There was a lot of working and talking to the community to make sure everything went down as well as possible. It took a lot of conversation and dialogue between different views. They might still think it's silly but they realise it's not some bad thing where RoboCop is oppressing the people, or something like that."It wasn't the only challenge. "We naively thought that we would just get some foundry to knock it out quickly", says Walley, but instead he had to deal with insurance, find a suitable site and navigate copyright issues with MGM. The studio put him in touch with Fred Barton, who already makes licensed lifesize RoboCop statues, which will be enlarged by another company using 3D scans, before the 10ft statue is&nbsp;eventually created by a&nbsp;Detroit-based&nbsp;foundry.It should be ready early next year, says Walley. "We're pretty much sure where it will be [sited], but we're not announcing it yet because something could fall through and we're still exploring avenues until the statue is&nbsp;done."Without crowdfunding, Walley says this project wouldn't have happened. "This is the sort of thing where people can put in $5 or $100. I don't see a corporation investing in something like this, and there's no way the city government should spend money on it."Does he think there is an issue with people from around the world helping to make local decisions? "I feel that, ultimately, the responsibility behind anything dealing with ethics rests mainly with the creators of the project. Internationally, it was an opportunity to show that Detroit is a great place to live with tons of creativity and potential – unfortunately, these facts often get lost with the majority of press about Detroit exploiting the negative. Locally, we had to express that our intent is not to make fun of Detroit, and that we see the RoboCop statue as a positive that can, in a small way, help with the rebuilding and re-imaging of the city. That doesn't mean everyone will agree, but that's OK as long as we express our intentions that this isn't some ironic hipster statement."Will it bring people to the city? "There's a lot of interest fromPeter Weller, who played RoboCop. There are backers from all around the world, and people want to come to Detroit when it's up to see it."LogicalArt's Air Tattoo jewellery – one of a handful of British projects on Kickstarter before the site's UK launch in November.Paper jewellery: Hanhsi Chen, 28, and Yookyung Shin, 29Product designers, LondonHanhsi Chen and his business partner, Yookyung Shin, met as students on the Royal College of Art's product design course and set up their company,LogicalArt. Their first project together, creating memory sticks made from stainless steel and Perspex, was a small one but they learned a lot – mainly how&nbsp;long it took to fund, develop and produce and to make back the money they had put into it."We wanted this to be quicker," says Chen. He is alone in his studio – the living room of a block of flats in west London – because Shin is in South Korea, visiting manufacturers.They came up with the idea of creating sculptural jewellery, made from elaborate patterns cut from paper known as Air Tattoos. "Originally, we wanted the material to be leather or silicone, and in the end we came across a special paper and it's quite strong and waterproof." Shin drew the patterns and they made up samples. "We showed friends and other designers to get some feedback, and people really liked it, but we had cashflow problems." Kickstarter was mentioned by friends who had "bought" products from the site – often people who pledge money for a particular project receive a finished article, whether it's a product or a book or a DVD.What helped, says Chen, is seeing "the market response before you even make the pieces, which helps with decisions such as: 'Should I make 2,000 or 400?' At that time, we calculated the cost of the tooling for four necklace designs, and the minimum order for the paper, and a little bit of the manufacturing fee. If we reached that, we thought at least we could afford to do this project without losing&nbsp;any money."They launched their Kickstarter page in August, one of the handful of UK-based projects on the site back then, with a target of raising $4,000 (£2,500); by September, they had raised nearly $18,000 (£11,000).Backers donated between $3 (they receive a PDF of their bracelet design to print and cut out themselves) to $165, for which they will receive three of each of the four finished necklaces. Chen estimates he will be sending out around 1,000 necklaces to his backers.Of the money they raise, Kickstarter takes 5% (Amazon, which processes the payments, takes another cut). Is this fair? Chen thinks it is. "If we were selling through a retailer, they would take a much bigger cut," he says. He thinks they should be able to make around 2,000 necklaces, which they plan to sell for around £15 each. Then they will start thinking about their next project. Will they use Kickstarter to fund it? "Probably. I think it's a good platform for new designers."The digital comic: Janine Naimoli Frederick, 33Comic writer, New JerseyLater this month, the first of Janine Naimoli Frederick's nine-part comic seriesQuandarywill be released. It's set in New York in 2032, under a police state, and Frederick says it's a little bit Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four, a little bit Occupy movement. "There is one event that takes place at the beginning and it leads to other events that change the status quo," she says on the phone."I was reluctant [to use Kickstarter] at first because I hate asking people for money," she says. "I wanted to save up the cash, do it myself, but I got to the point where if I kept going at the rate I&nbsp;was going, I would never be able to afford to do it because every time I had&nbsp;the money something would happen – my car would break, my house would break."Frederick launched her funding page in June, seeking $2,500 (£1,500); when it closed in August, 140 backers had pledged more than $3,000."Probably a third of them came in just via the Kickstarter site. Another third came from people I know personally. The other third came from a grassroots effort to raise awareness – Facebook, Twitter, podcast interviews, local events, talking to people everywhere I went. If I was in the grocery store, I would get into conversation with&nbsp;anybody. The awareness it created alone has been huge, which is awesome. It makes me believe that I have something people are interested in and&nbsp;when it does launch, people will be excited."Kickstarter has successfully funded nearly 800 comics projects, and earlier this&nbsp;year, the US trade publicationPublishers Weekly put the site fourthbehind Marvel, DC and Image in a ranking of graphic novel publishers. One author and illustrator,Rich Burlew, raised more than $1.2m (£745,000) through Kickstarterto reprint a book from his Order of the Stick series.Frederick has been writing comics for three years in her spare time from her day job as a web developer for a university. "I knew I was unknown in the comic industry but I thought if I&nbsp;could market it properly and had a good enough idea, I could probably make it work. Even though it was funded to be&nbsp;a digital-only comic, there are still costs associated." Although she is writing the series, she is paying artists to draw it; then there are ISBN numbers to pay for and digital distribution.Does Frederick find her creativity is stifled, knowing there are 140 people out there who pledged money and are waiting for their first issue? She insists it isn't. "I actually appreciate the pressure and it keeps me on my toes: 'Did I do enough on the project today? Do I need to take a day off as a vacation day to work on it?' It's that pressure that keeps me going."The film about Iraq: James Spione, 51Film-maker, New YorkJames Spione's 22-minute documentary Incident in New Baghdad was nominated for an Oscar in 2012.Last year,Incident in New Baghdad, the documentary James Spione made featuring the account of Ethan McCord, a soldier on the scene of the 2007 airstrike that would become one of the most controversial of the Iraq war, was&nbsp;already gaining recognition on the festival circuit, winning best short documentary at the Tribeca film festival, but the independent film-maker had his eye on a bigger prize – an Academy Award nomination. "For that I needed to do a theatrical screening run either in New York or LA," he says, over Skype, "and I needed a budget for&nbsp;that."Spione worked out it would cost around $8,000 (£5,000). "I set three weeks to achieve the goal, but I ended up hitting it within a day and a half. It&nbsp;was kind of amazing and, actually, my biggest funder was in the UK. Everything used to feel very linear, [but with crowdfunding] your audience almost feels like your co-makers. They are invested in it – not just in terms of money, but in commitment to what you're doing in the way an ordinary fan used to be. So now you've got a couple of hundred PR and marketing people out there who, when that film is done, are going to have a personal connection and help spread the word. Its value goes beyond the money."Spione's 22-minute documentary examines what happened in 2007 when a number of people, mainly civilians including two Reuters employees, were killed and two children were wounded, in a US helicopter airstrike. It received an Oscar nomination at this year's Academy Awards, and although it didn't win, this was enough to focus more attention on the film and the incident.Could he have achieved that nomination without crowdfunding? "It would have been harder," he says. "I&nbsp;would have had to borrow money. This was also a very short turnaround. Raising money through conventional sources can take a lot of time and I had a couple of weeks. I decided in August that I was going to do this, and I knew it had to play sometime in September, so it had to happen quickly. Without Kickstarter, I might have thought it would be too daunting."Some of the new British projects on Kickstarter seeking funding:PicadeA self-assembly kit to turn your Raspberry Pi into an arcade game – the first UK project to be&nbsp;approved.Project MemoryArtist Graham Johnson will draw your memories on&nbsp;to&nbsp;canvas.Juliet and the&nbsp;ShrinkSix-part comedy series set in a telesales office in Brighton.Good and Proper teaEmilie Holmes wants to set up a mobile tea van (a converted 1974 Citroen van) serving quality and unusual tea.The FitzroyComedy feature film set on a beached submarine in a  post-apocalyptic 1950s Margate.
Skype was warned in August by a Russian programmer about a vulnerability closely linked to the one the company admits hasbeen exploited to hijack peoples' accounts using just their email address.Dmitry Chestnykh, the founder of the software company Coding Robots, has shown the Guardian a dated transcript of a conversation he had on 7 August with Skype support in which he pointed out that anyone could create a new Skype account using a email address – even if they didn't control it. He has also published the transcript, without the date, onHacker News.Chestnykh says he subsequently sent an email to Skype's security but received no response. He became suspicious when he received an email confirming the setup of a new Skype account at his email – showing that Skype did not use a verification system before allowing the creation of new accounts.To prove the weakness he reported still exists, he set up an account using the email of Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, on Wednesday. "Ballmer@microsoft.com now has a new Skype account. Congrats!" hetweeted.The flaw is similar to the one which Skype closed off on Wednesday, in which hackers could take control of an account if they knew the email address used by the person who controlled it. The hack was carried out via a web form that was provided for the reset; the owner's email account was not compromised.Skype said on Wednesday afternoon that it had closed off the flaw and that the problem had affected a "small" number of users who it thinks may have been hacked in this way – but declined to elaborate on how the "small" figure compared to its registered user base of over 600 million or the 45 million who are online at any time."Early this morning we were notified of user concerns surrounding the security of the password reset feature on our website," the company said in a statement. "This issue affected some users where multiple Skype accounts were registered to the same email address. We suspended the password reset feature temporarily this morning as a precaution and have made updates to the password reset process today so that it is now working properly."We are reaching out to a small number of users who may have been impacted to assist as necessary. Skype is committed to providing a safe and secure communications experience to our users and we apologise for the inconvenience."Chestnykh said that though the flaw he reported differs from the one that hackers exploited – because theirs used existing accounts tied to email addresses, and his used new accounts on untaken addresses – if Skype had fixed the flaw he had discovered, it would probably have found the one he did.He told the Guardian: "What I reported in August and today's vulnerability, which has been discovered by different people (I don't know them), are different issues. What I claim is that if they fixed the issue I reported, there possibly wouldn't be a way to exploit today's vulnerability. Maybe I wasn't the first person to report the issue, too."Skype did not respond to a request for comment by the time this story was published.
Location-based services got off to a bumpy start in the mobile industry when operators were trying to sell customers on their appeal in the early 2000s. It turned out people didn't really want to pay to find their nearest cash machine after all.Fast forward to 2012, and it's a very different story. Hundreds of millions of people are using mapping apps on their handsets; free turn-by-turn navigation is now a standard smartphone preload; and location is bubbling away as a feature in social apps like Facebook, Twitter and Foursquare.Location and mapping is a big deal, finally, and that's why it's such a big story when someone gets it wrong, like Apple. It's also a big deal for Nokia, which for all its recent well-documented troubles in the smartphone market, can still count its location activities as a real strength.That's why a series of announcements made by Nokia this week are so interesting.The company unveiled a new service called HERE that will extend to iOS, Android and Firefox OS as well as Windows Phone; announced plans to buy a company called Earthmine for its Street View-esque 3D street-level imagery; and reminded everyone of its augmented-reality technology with a bundle of features called LiveSight.In short, location, location, location and a fourth location thrown in for good measure: Or as Nokiadescribed HERE in a blog post: "The world's first location cloud that delivers a location platform, location content and location apps across any screen and any operating system."There's more:"Just like digital cameras created possibilities that were unthinkable with analog photography, today's digital mapping has amazing potential to grow into what we call computational cartography, the ability to produce maps on-demand and tailored to their actual use cases. Today's digital maps are generic – i.e. always the same, irrespective of the content they visualize. We also believe that this game-changing evolution in mapmaking should be available to more businesses and more people around the world – it should expand beyond cars and beyond Nokia devices."That means an HTML5-basedHERE Maps app for iOSwhich will be distributed through Apple's App Store – once approved – as well as an app for Mozilla's upcoming Firefox OS. For Android, Nokia is planning something different: a HERE Maps API for developers to make their own Android apps using the technology."This openness is what sets HERE apart from other digital maps in the world," claims the blog post, although that's a statement open to debate, given the growth of the OpenStreetMap project in recent years.This appears to be a rebrand and major expansion of the existing Nokia Maps service – already used by Microsoft for non-Nokia Windows Phones, as well as Amazon, Yahoo and other companies.Meanwhile, theacquisition of Earthmind– "a complete solution for collecting, processing, managing, and hosting 3D street level imagery" complete with camera-toting branded cars – is a signal of Nokia's intention to go head-to-head with Google's Street View service, while also sucking in more 3D data for its main maps.Then there'sLiveSight, a bundle of technologies that help apps detect buildings that are being viewed through the smartphone's camera, filter points of interest to only show those in line of sight, and freeze the camera frame to "inspect the city without having to hold the camera pointed at the target".LiveSight is being used for Nokia's own City Lens augmented reality app, but it's described as just "the first application providing a LiveSight-enabled experience", so there will be others.The big picture is of a company doubling down on one of its undoubted strengths, positioning itself not only against the rival that's having problems with its maps business (Apple), but the rival that's pumping even more investment into its successful services (Google).What's fascinating too, though, is the way HERE shows a future for Nokia beyond Windows Phone. Nokia may have put all its smartphone eggs in Microsoft's basket, but when it comes to services it wants to be everywhere.It's also a reminder that there is value within Nokia beyond its handset manufacturing business: potentially handy if Windows Phone turns out to be just as much of a burning platform for Nokia as Symbian was.Back in 2007, Nokia paid $8bn for mapping firm NAVTEQ. In 2012, Nokia's own market cap is hovering just above $10bn. Apple, meanwhile, ended the third quarter of this year with $121.3bn in cash and long-term securities, and it still needs a great mapping…Well, let's not get ahead of ourselves. Nokia isn't positioning itself as an acquisition target for Apple just yet, not least because Windows Phone is very much alive and kicking. And buying Nokia for its maps wouldn't fit neatly into Apple's traditional strategy of quietly buying smaller startups then moulding their technologies for its own ends.But if HERE's greatest strength is its openness and cross-platform nature, it's tempting to wonder whether there's also a risk for Windows Phone as a platform.Whenever Nokia has shown off its Lumia handsets in 2012, its maps and location services have been strongly flagged up as a differentiator for Windows Phone, and Lumia in particular. An impressive HERE app for iOS and a steady flow of third-party Android apps built with its API could undermine that.Lots of ifs. What we can say for sure is that the launch of HERE, and Nokia's ongoing improvement of its location and mapping services, is a timely reminder that the company shouldn't just be judged on how many Windows Phones it sells.
Skype has disabled its password reset capability after hackers discovered a serious security hole that could let anyone take control of an account by knowing its email address.The hack has reportedly been known for some months among Russian underground forums, but became more widely public on Wednesday.Anyone who has received an email asking them if they want to reset their Skype password should check that it has not been taken over – and should reset the password themselves using the account details they have if so. However, captured accounts may have had their primary emails changed by any hackers who have grabbed them.Skype, which wasacquired by Microsoftin May 2011 for $8.5bn (£5.3bn), has more than 600 million registered users, and regularly sees more than 45 million online at any time.The step-by-step explanation of how to hack the accounts wasposted on a blog early on Wednesday, and gave simple instructions which used the "disposable account" facility offered by Skype to take control of existing accounts.The key flaw is a web page in the password reset system, to which a token is also sent when a password reset request is made. That page allowed people to reset a password without having access to the email account itself. No email systems have been hacked.Gaining control of a Skype account could let hackers use any credit to make calls, though the broader use is unclear. There are no details so far about how many accounts may have been hacked.Skype moved quickly to block the hole, and said in astatement: "We have had reports of a new security vulnerability issue. As a precautionary step, we have temporarily disabled password reset as we continue to investigate the issue further. We apologise for the inconvenience, but user experience and safety is our first priority."Microsoft is looking tointegrate Skype and its Windows Live Messenger systemin the next few months, pulling the instant messaging clients into Skype.
This week Aleks Krotoski meetsSue Blackto discuss her heroic campaign to focus attention onBletchley Park,the site of the code-breakers during the second world war and home to the Museum of Computing. Sue is crowd-sourcing money in order to produce a book which celebrates its history and shines a light on Bletchley Park's role in the development of modern computing.Aleks is joined by the Guardian's Technology editor Charles Arthur to discuss thesurprise standing down of Windows 8 chief Steven Sinofskyand chief technology officer of ISP Timico Trefor Davies joins the pod to discuss the launch ofEE's 4G service in the UK.
Middle of the working week. I'm speaking at the Launch conference in Birmingham today! Wish me luck!
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNokia launches "HERE" to build brand equity beyond mobile phones &gt;&gt; Forrester BlogsThomas Husson:Make no mistake: This is not "HERE by Nokia" or any other form of sub-brand. This is an independent brand. Why? Because the opportunity is bigger than just Nokia.This is about addressing different types of connected devices -- not just mobile phones but also tablets, connected cars, and wearables. As such, "HERE" could play a pivotal role in helping Nokia leverage tomorrow's new mobile form factors.This is also about addressing different platforms -- not just Nokia Windows Phone devices but also, initially, other Windows Phone licensees, such as Samsung and HTC. That's why Nokia has also announced today in San Francisco that it will launch an application for iOS 6, a partnership with Mozilla to launch a mobile Web version of HERE Maps for the new Firefox OS next year, and a native Android app and plans for the availability of a HERE SDK for Android in early 2013. This horizontal approach is a way for Nokia to license its content and platform to other OEMs that use the Android ecosystem, such as Amazon.com.Dell announces new XPS dockable windows tablet and convertible ultrabook &gt;&gt; PCWorldThe XPS Duo 12's unusual screen-flipping design will no doubt remind you of the Inspiron Duo convertible tablet, whose screen also popped out of its keyboard case. Though innovative in its design, the Inspiron Duo didn't last too long in the market, thanks in part to the device's lackluster specs, including a mediocre display and underpowered Atom processor.The XPS Duo 12 will hopefully overcome those issues by combining the flipping design with Ultrabook specs. Dell's press release highlights the XPS Duo 12's premium materials: an aluminum and carbon fiber chassis plus a Corning Gorilla Glass display.Answers a later question about where the Windows 8 tablets are. They're folded into Dell designs, to begin with.100 Million Thanks &gt;&gt; Dropbox"The cloud done right" has hit 100 million users. Apple once tried to buy it for a billion. That one got away.Apple gives in to employee perks &gt;&gt; WSJ.comEarlier this year, Apple told some employees about a new initiative called "Blue Sky" that allows a small group of staffers to spend a few weeks on a pet engineering project, according to three people told about the program.It is a more limited version of similar initiatives for hatching new ideas that have long existed in Silicon Valley. The most well-known of those is Google's "20% time," which allows employees to spend up to a fifth of their time on projects outside their normal responsibilities.The idea was previously anathema at Apple. The Cupertino, Calif., company is known for organizing teams around a few focused projects that come from the top. Employees have often griped about the lack of leeway.Intriguing. (Subscription required.)Windows 8 has arrived, but the tablets are nowhere to be seen &gt;&gt; TIME.comJared Newman:The Micro Center near Cincinnati only had one Windows tablet on display, Asus' Vivo Tab RT. It was set up at a small table near the center of the store's main aisle, next to an Asus Zenbook laptop and an HP TouchSmart all in one. The clerk confirmed that the store had no other Windows tablets -- but plenty of traditional laptops -- in stock. (Strangely, he also said tablets running Windows 8, as opposed to Windows RT, wouldn't hit the market until next year, which isn't true.)(Thanks @nazo for the link.)Google engineer builds $1,500 page-turning scanner out of sheet metal and a vacuum &gt;&gt; The VergeThe scanner uses air suction from an ordinary vacuum cleaner to isolate individual pages, scanning the front and back in one pass along the device's prism-shaped body. After a quick 40-second setup, it can digitize a 1000-page book in a little over 90 minutes (although that could be easily improved with a faster motor), and unlike many popular scanners on the market it doesn't require anyone to man the controls once it's been set in motion.Does it scan the bit at the front of every published book saying "no part of this publication.. may be stored in any form without permission in writing from the publisher"? (Thanks @rubbernuke for the link.)Microsoft Surface RT may only achieve 60% of forecasted sales &gt;&gt; DigitimesMicrosoft's Surface RT tablet may see sales of only 60% of the company's forecast by the end of 2012 and the device is also expected to have difficulty achieving a good performance during the year-end holidays, according to sources from upstream component suppliers...The sources believe that notebook vendors' Windows 8-based tablets will benefit from the Surface RT's weaker-than-expected sales as their products will face one less competitor in the Windows-based tablet market.Filed under "enjoyably delusional nonsense that Digitimes sometimes writes, because how the hell would upstream suppliers know what Microsoft's targets are, but included as a probably erroneous data point.A Microsoft without Sinofsky? &gt;&gt; Mini-MicrosoftThe anonymous blogger breaks his silence:Mr. Sinofsky got a standing ovation from the Windows team during the Company Meeting for all that he's done to take them on a multi-year journey to create Windows 7 and then hit the big multi-division reset button for Windows 8. He truly demonstrated technical leadership at its best.And I don't believe his departure rules him out at all for Microsoft CEO. In fact, I think if he stays in tech and becomes CEO of another company it makes him an even more obvious choice to come back to Microsoft as its leader.The comments from Microsoft staff are worth reading too. (From non-staff, not so much.)AT&amp;T's Samsung Galaxy Camera to cost $499.99, launching on 16 November &gt;&gt; The VergeFor those looking for a device that's a camera first and smartphone second, AT&amp;Thas just announcedthat the 4G-connected Samsung Galaxy Camera will be available starting 16 November for $499.99 without a contract. That price is significantly less thanthe £399.99 that customers in the UK need to payand the lack of a two-year contract is also a boon, but actually using the cellular radio inside will still require a data plan.Form an orderly queue, please. And a 4G connection will hardly cost... oh. What was the point of this again?Why Apple's new Lightning connector makes sense &gt;&gt; Paul Thurrott's SuperSite for WindowsIn my new role as Apple apologist--kidding, kidding--I feel compelled to offer a mea culpa on my earlier comments about the company's new Lightning connector. Sure, proprietary connectors stink, and I'm still not a fan of lock-in. But Apple got it right when it made this connector reversible. That really does make a big difference.He also explains why, in comparison to micro-USB.FSA examines whistleblower's claims of 'Libor-like' manipulation in gas prices &gt;&gt; The GuardianThe City watchdog, the Financial Services Authority, is investigating claims by a whistleblower that Britain's £300bn wholesale gas market has been "regularly" manipulated by some of the big power companies, exploiting weaknesses that echo the recent Libor scandal.Ooo.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Facebook's beleaguered stock price will come under further pressure on Wednesday as 800m shares held by employees and early investors become eligible for sale on the Nasdaq exchange.The expiry of the lock-up period barring some holders from selling after the social network's initial public offering in May could in theory more than double the number of publicly traded shares, which currently stands at 921m, although not every holder will choose to cash in.In previous waves, executives including chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg and general counsel Ted Ullyot have cashed in some of their holdings, and one of Facebook's most prominent backers, the venture capitalist Peter Thiel, has sold most of his stake since the float."It's impossible to know whether VCs [venture capitalists] and other early investors will sell, but Peter Thiel's sale of more than 80% of his stock is a sign that others may consider doing the same," said Wedbush analyst Michael Pachter.Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg is eligible to sell 504m of his shares, worth $10bn (£6.3bn) at Tuesday's $20 closing price, but he has promised to hold on to them until September 2013 and the securities have not been counted in the totals being released this month.Previous lock-down expiries have helped drive Facebook's share price down to nearly half its $38 IPO level, but there is evidence short-sellers are losing interest, suggesting the drop may not be severe this time.SunGard Financial Systems' Astec Analytics unit says the number of shares being borrowed – an indicator of short-selling activity – has dropped by almost 40% this month, and is at its lowest level since June.Encouraging financial results in October, which showed the company is starting attract revenues from mobile advertisers, may have boosted investor confidence.
Two weeks ago Steven Sinofsky was in front of the world's journalists, attaching wheels to one of Microsoft'snew Surface tabletsto show the device was so tough it could withstand being used as a skateboard.But on Monday evening in Seattle it was Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, who put the wheels under the head of his Windows division and pushed him out of the company where many had seen him as a future leader.Microsoft shares fell by 3% to $27 in early trading on Tuesday as the news reverberated around the web, leaving "Microsofties" themselves stunned as they tried to digest what the change will mean for the company. Sinofsky was "a tremendous talent," one said on Tuesday. Meanwhile"mini", an anonymous blogger inside the company, wrote: "People walking the hallways tonight at work certainly can't believe it. I can't believe it – working at a Microsoft without Sinofsky? Inconceivable."Ballmer, 56, who has led the company since January 2000, is now isolated at the top – and could be next in line if shareholders feel Microsoft is not adapting quickly enough to a world where smartphones outsell PCs, search advertising is more profitable than games consoles, Google has almost as much cash and equivalents as the 37-year-old company, and Apple's iPhone alone generates more revenue, $17bn, than all of Microsoft's $16bn.Sinofsky drove thedevelopment of Windows 8, the latest version now hitting stores, after taking over as president of the Windows division in July 2009, just as it was preparing to launch Windows 7 – the most successful version of Windows it has ever produced. At the company meeting in September, he won a standing ovation from the Windows team.Ballmer is left with problems. The success of Windows 8, which forces users to adopt an entirely different interaction method than versions from the previous 20 years, is not yet clear. And Windows Phone, the mobile software challenging Apple's iPhone and Google's Android, barely has a fingerhold in the £200bn smartphone market. Microsoft's Bing search engine loses hundreds of millions of dollars a quarter and has made barely any impact on Google's dominance. Meanwhile it is smartphones, not PCs, that are introducing people in China, India and Africa to the internet – and many of those are powered by Android.Tellingly, Microsoft's stock has wobbled between $20 and $30 since January 2002, and nothing Ballmer has done has shifted it. The rumblings among shareholders seeking his scalp will grow louder in 2013 if nothing improves.In an email to staff, Sinofsky was emollient, suggesting that after 23 years, and having completed the Windows launch: "I have decided it is time for me to take a step back from my responsibilities at Microsoft … I have decided to leave the company to seek new opportunities that build on these experiences."Former colleagues were full of praise. "What Steve did particularly well was very thoughtful planning processes that allowed the best thinking to come up through the organisation," one who worked with Sinofsky told me on Tuesday. "And then to drive a relentless cycle of development and testing. His legacy? The ability to come up with innovations, and the ability to ship [products]. He brought discipline." There was particular emphasis on the final word - for Sinofsky was a tough manager who didn't suffer fools gladly.That, in fact, seems to have been his downfall, allied to Ballmer's unwillingness to loosen his grip on the company. Another former Microsoft staffer told Reuters that Sinofsky's "relentlessly aggressive" style had annoyed and alienated others – even Bill Gates, his long-time mentor who is still company chairman. "He had no one left to fight for him," one staffer told Reuters. "Gates gave him cover, so he must have eventually caved [to Ballmer]."Sinofsky, 47, had prevailed in a number of other fights – including seeing off Gates protege and former chief software architect Ray Ozzie,according tojournalist Jay Greene, a longtime watcher of the company. Profiling Sinofsky last month, Greene noted that "Sinofsky's critics say he's elevated those battles to a new level, thriving by marginalising rivals while running the company's most profitable businesses, Windows and Office."The departure, which Microsoft sources suggested was not a firing, cements Ballmer's position – but leaves questions around how adaptable the company can now show itself to be as the world changes rapidly around it."I was expecting the other Steve to leave,"said Richard Windsor, formerly analyst at Nomura who now runs his own RadioFreeMobile analysis site. "I view Steve Ballmer as an engineering driven drill sergeant who can be a bit like a bull in a china shop. Historically, this approach has been very effective but the new challenges that Microsoft now faces arguably need a more creative mind … I view this as a negative for Microsoft, as a change in its culture and philosophy would help the company better meet the challenges it faces in a world that increasingly looks beyond the PC. Whether Sinofsky was the right man to effect that change is highly questionable, but perhaps this manoeuvre opens the door to the next venture for Scott Forstall when he becomes free in 2013."The reference to Forstall –forced out in October from his role as head of Apple's mobile softwareby his chief executive, Tim Cook, amid rumours that he, like Sinofsky, had created divisive tensions and fostered ambitions points to the huge pressures on both Apple and Microsoft amid the rapidly changing digital landscape. Google has not been immune either, having in July lost Marissa Mayer, one of its longest-serving senior staff, who left to run the struggling web property Yahoo."Some are speculating that the availability on the market of Forstall might have something to do with Sinofsky's departure," Gartner analyst Carolina Milanesi told Reuters. "I doubt we will have to wait long to know if this is the case."But at Microsoft, the anonymous "mini" thinks this could just be the second act of a three-act play. "I don't believe his departure rules him out at all for Microsoft CEO. In fact, I think if he stays in tech and becomes CEO of another company it makes him an even more obvious choice to come back to Microsoft as its leader."
Banning anyone from the internet is an "unreasonable" restriction, two appeal court judges have ruled, suggesting that access to a computer at home has become a basic human right.The decision by Mr Justice Collins and Judge Nicholas Cooke QC signals judicial recognition of how pervasive digital communications are in an era when a multitude of services can be obtained online.The decision could prove a challenging precedent in computer hacking and fraud cases where suspects have frequently been banned from using computers for recreational purposes. At leastone computer-hacking suspect, Jake Davis, has been prohibited from going online.Upholding a complaint from a sex offender that he was being cut off from the world, the two judges declared it was "unreasonable nowadays to ban anyone from accessing the internet in their home".Phillip Michael Jackson had been convicted of using a secret camera to film a 14-year-old girl in the shower. Jackson, 55, of Dartford, Kent, doctored a shampoo bottle and hid his mobile phone inside it to take the surreptitious video of the girl.He was arrested after the youngster spotted a flashing light in the bottle. Police investigated and subsequently found hundreds of sexual images, featuring animals and children as young as four, stored on Jackson's computer.He was sentenced to a community order with three years supervision at Woolwich crown court in June. He was also subjected to a sexual offences prevention order (Sopo), banning him from owning a computer, using a camera in public and coming into contact with children at work, and allowing the police to raid his home at any time.His lawyers argued that the prevention order was unnecessary and disproportionate. When it was imposed the crown court judge had remarked that it should last until the day Jackson died.Collins and Cooke, sitting in the court of appeal, overturned it and replaced it with an order that Jackson must make his internet history available for police viewing.Collins told the court: "The judge imposing the Sopo said, 'I anticipate that you will die subject to this order – that is my wish anyway.' They were not appropriate remarks to have made."He also criticised the "lurid language" used by the crown court judge, concluding that the order imposed on Jackson was "entirely excessive". He added: "Nowadays it is entirely unreasonable to ban anybody from accessing the internet in their home."
Jammed call centres, signal problems, breathtaking download speeds, and lots of Kevin Bacon adverts... The UK's first 4G mobile network, EE, is two weeks oldand its arrival has left some customers delighted and others demented.So for those wondering whether to take the plunge: are the fastest download rates in the market worth EE's premium prices and the headache of switching networks? Or do lower bills for slower speeds make more sense? Is 4G what your smartphone has been waiting for,or will EE's monthly download caps clip its wings?In order to find out, I have spent the last fortnight putting EE through its paces, using the older 3G network operated by Three as a comparison.First, let me say this is not a review of the customer service offered by either company. The briefest of glances at Twitter shows EE has had its fair share of teething problems. The delivery of SIM cards for some customers has beenslow, and some of those who have joined up say they can no longer makevoice calls. Others have reported waiting hours for an answer on the helpline:Just spent 2 hours on hold with @ee. By the end the pain was transcendent. Like staring into the eyeball of the world.&mdash; Pete Myall (@dudekiller)November 12, 2012The problems have not been helped by stock shortages at Apple, meaning some customers are being told they could have towait a monthfor a new iPhone 5.Having bypassed the sign-up process, and been lent handsets with no data caps, I was able to test the networks without any of the usual aggravations. My everyday phone is an iPhone 4S, but for the trial I used newer products – an iPhone 5 on both networks, and also a Samsung Galaxy S3 on EE.This may be a rose-tinted view, but the level of connectivity I found on both Three and EE while going about daily life in central London left me profoundly impressed.Clocking a 15Mbps speed test on the open-air tube platform at Sloane Square, comparing Amazon prices from the centre of a large department store, downloading the Bus Checker app and receiving a live timetable in less than a minute, watching the BBC One spy thriller Hunted until my bus arrived, and carrying on watching as we crossed the river...All are things I have either struggled with in the past, or simply been unable to do in 3G. The experience left me buzzing with the possibilities, and more than a little nervous about travelling around town with eyes glued to two ridiculously expensive phones.Do more, buffer lessIn most places I was able to do more, with less buffering, than on my home broadband, which plateaus at 3Mbps on a good day. I was surprised, because this level of mobile service has tended to elude me on the company phone, which uses Vodafone's network.It's no doubt just bad luck but I cannot get a voice signal in my kitchen, or a 3G signal anywhere at home. Outside my local tube station (Stockwell in south London), the 3G is so weak that emails struggle to load. And I have wandered from street to street on the north bank of the Thames near the Strand in a hopeless quest to download a map.In fairness, EE's 4G signal does not yet reach even the top floor of my house, although Three is there. With just 11 cities reached so far, EE has a long way to go before its spread and depth of coverage can match that of Vodafone or any of the older networks. And Three's network is patchier outside urban areas than those of its larger rivals.Multiple factors can affect speeds. Vodafone's lower frequencies tend to travel better through walls. Certain subscriptions have limits imposed on them according to what the handset being used is capable of. There is no doubt that in side-by-side trials, EE repeatedly beat Three on the numbers. It peaked at 20Mbps at Vauxhall Cross transport interchange, and my slowest recorded download rate was 7Mbps. The highest speed measured on Three was 8Mbps, again at Vauxhall, and the lowest 1Mbps. This was still enough to create an ad on eBay, including uploading the necessary photos in a matter of seconds, from an office desk nowhere near an external wall.But, in most cases, there was no task 4G could perform noticeably better than 3G. Both networks were able to play, fast forward and rewind video with either no buffering or just a few seconds of wait time. In fact, in one instance the iPhone 5 on 3G played a television programme with less buffering and a crisper image than was achieved by a Samsung SIII on 4G.The only real difference in user experience was the speed at which apps download. Here 4G has the edge, at least on EE's largely empty network. The Bus Checker app took 50 seconds to install on Three, and just two seconds on EE. The BBC iPlayer app took 30 seconds on Three, and a lightning-fast three seconds on EE.Data obstaclesBut Three offers unlimited data, and EE does not. Even its most expensive plan limits usage at 8 gigabytes. For 3 gigabytes of data on EE, the minimum plan on which the top-flight handsets are available, the customer pays £46 a month. This is around £10 more than on other networks. Are faster app installs enough of a selling point when unlimited data is on sale for less money? Probably not.One wonders why EE is charging more. The answer perhaps is that the company, which already owns the Orange and T-Mobile brands, does not need more customers – but more profitable customers.EE is already the market leader with 27 million subscribers, while the next largest network, O2, has 23.5m. EE's parent companies, France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom, are thought to be keen to float the company when economic conditions improve. Fatter margins will attract a higher share price, and 4G may well pull in the early-adopting, high-rolling customers.Outside Stockwell tube station, 31 October, 11:35EE: 15MbpsThree: 4MbpsSloane Square tube platform, 31 October, 12:00EE: 15MbpsThree: 2MbpsElectronics department, Peter Jones, 31 October, 12:29EE: 19MbpsThree: 7MbpsTop floor cafe, Peter Jones, 31 Ocober, 13:36EE: 7MbpsThree: 2MbpsGuardian offices, Kings Cross, 8 November, 18:40EE: 8MbpsThree: 1MbpsVauxhall Cross bus stop, 9 November, 09:58EE: 20MbpsThree: 8Mbps
Government surveillance of citizens' online lives is rising sharply around the world, according toGoogle's latest reporton requests to remove content and hand over user data to official agencies.In the first six months of this year, authorities worldwide made 20,939 requests for access to personal data from Google users, including search results, access to Gmail accounts and removal of YouTube videos. Requests have risen steeply from a low of 12,539 in the last six months of 2009, when Google first published its Transparency Report.Authorities made 1,791 requests for Google to remove 17,746 pieces of content in the first half of 2012, almost twice as many as the 949 requests made in the same period last year, and up from 1,048 requests made in the last six months of 2011."This is the sixth time we've released this data, and one trend has become clear: government surveillance is on the rise,"Google said in a blogpost.One of the sharpest rises came in requests from Turkey, which held an election on 12 June 2011. Google reported a 1,013% rise in requests from Turkish authorities in the latest reporting period, including 148 requests to remove 426 YouTube videos, Blogger blogs, one Google document and one search result. The contested items allegedly criticised Mustafa Kemal Atatürk (the first president of Turkey), the government or "national identity and values". Google restricted Turkish users from accessing 63% of the YouTube videos. It did not remove the other content.The US accounted for the most requests, as it has consistently since the report was launched. US authorities asked for private details of Google users on 7,969 occasions, up from 6,321 in the last reporting period. The number is more than a third of the 20,938 requests for users' details worldwide. Google fully or partially complied with 90% of those requests.Over the six months, Google was asked to remove seven YouTube videos that criticised local and state agencies, police and other public officials. It did not comply with these requests.US figures represent a larger share of the requests for a variety of reasons. Google has a larger number of US users, the US authorities are more familiar with working with Google and foreign countries sometimes make requests for information through US agencies. Those queries are logged as US requests, as Google is not told where the query originated from.Europe now accounts for five of the top 10 countries making requests for user data. France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK are all in the top 10 in terms of numbers of requests. The number of requests for content removal in the UK shot up 98% in the UK and 60% in Spain. In the UK, local police authorities unsuccessfully pressed for Google to remove links to sites that accused the police of obscuring crime and racism. The UK is currently considering a bill that would require internet and phone companies to track and store every citizen's web and mobile phone use, including social networking sites, without retaining their content, for 12 months.France and Germany, two countries that have pressed hard for more privacy online, made the most requests out of any European countries in this reporting period. Google complied with fewer than half of all requests in both countries.The top three reasons cited by governments for the removal of content are defamation, privacy and security. Google also reported that it has received a number of falsified court documents calling on them to remove content."The information we disclose is only an isolated sliver showing how governments interact with the internet, since for the most part we don't know what requests are made of other technology or telecommunications companies. But we're heartened that in the past year, more companies like Dropbox, LinkedIn, Sonic.net and Twitter have begun to share their statistics, too. Our hope is that over time, more data will bolster public debate about how we can best keep the internet free and open," Google said in its blogpost.From January to June 2012, the following countries made the most requests for user data:• United States (7,969)• India (2,319)• Brazil (1,566)• France (1,546)• Germany (1,533)From January to June 2012, the following countries made the most requests to remove content:• Turkey (501)• United States (273)• Germany (247)• Brazil (191)• United Kingdom (97)
If you want to catch the largest-grossing entertainment launch of the year so far, you can forget about Skyfall – or, indeed, the cinema. Microsoft's Xbox 360 shooter videogame Halo 4 brought in $220m (£138m) within 24 hours of its launch on Tuesday.The figure tops the record-breaking first-day cinema takings of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part Two, which made $91m at the box office in its opening day in July 2011. (The new James Bond film Skyfalltook $89m in its first weekend, from Friday to Saturday, this month.)Developed by 343 Industries, Halo 4 is the latest title in the long-running console series and once again features muscular space marine Master Chief, this time battling an ancient alien force.Microsoft expects it will bring in $300m worldwide in its first week on sale, making it the biggest launch in the history of the series, which has already shifted more than 46m units since the original title arrived in 2001. In the past week, fans have spent over 30m hours playing Halo 4.It is unlikely, however, that Halo, which is only available on the Xbox 360 console, will hold on to the title of 2012's biggest entertainment release. Tuesday saw the launch of Call of Duty: Black Ops 2, the latest in Activision's series of military shooters, which is also out on PC and PlayStation 3. Last year's instalment, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, made $400m in its first day and reached $775m by day five.The rivalry between Halo 4 and Call of Duty is good news for games retailers. Worldwide, video game sales have fallen this year, with the UK's October figures down almost 30% on the same month last year. A good shoot-out between two of the biggest brands in gaming should help the market recover.
Black Ops 2 is out, you may have noticed. Some 319 Game stores throughout the country stayed open until midnight on Monday to serve the nation's most fervent fans. The flagship HMV store on Oxford Street held the official consumer launch event, with developers on hand to sign copies; the first person in the queue was media student Taylor Pelling, who had been there since 7 November.Activision UK, meanwhile, held a big launch bash at the Bloomsbury Ballroom, inviting celebrities such as Jack Whitehall and Olympic gold medalist Louis Smith to indulge in the multiplayer mode. There will doubtless be mainstream news coverage throughout the day. Everybody knows what Call of Duty is, after all – the last Black Ops title, released in 2010, sold over 25 million units.Can it last? That is no doubt the question Activision's shareholders will be asking as they greedily watch the sales ticker spin. There are, after all, signs that the massive sales, which have put Call of Duty above the box-office takings of any Hollywood movie of the last five years, are falling. Slightly. Industry reports suggest that last year's Modern Warfare 3  sold fewer copies than its predecessor – although it still managed to rake in $775m within five days of launch. The title has also had to fight for online multiplayer dominance with its close rival, Battlefield 3.Black Ops 2 doesn't have such a capable competitor this year – EA's Medal of Honor: Warfighter has come in for something of a critical mauling. However, there have been some very strong releases elsewhere, including Halo 4, of course, as well as Assassin's Creed III, stealth adventure Dishonored, RPG blaster Borderlands 2, and sci-fi strategy title XCom – most of them offering very different experiences to the now hugely familiar military shooter recipe.And itishugely familiar. Call of Duty has dominated the console sales charts for the last four years, with only the major sports titles (Fifa worldwide and Madden in the US), Halo and Grand Theft Auto getting close. It is up there with Mario, Pokemon, the Sims and GTA as a mega-franchise, boasting sales of more than 100 million.Some interesting things are happening in the industry now, though. We have the rise of indie gaming, spearheaded by Minecraft, which last monthovertook Modern Warfare 3to be the most played game on Xbox Live; smartphone and tablet devices are also continuing to cut in on the traditional games market, drawing attention away from retail console releases.We are also on the verge of a new console generation. Launching this Christmas, the controversial Wii U will be at the vanguard, but next year's E3 exhibition in Los Angeles will surely see announcements from Sony and Microsoft about their next machines. And in the past, new console generations have often led to disruptions in the software market, with previously healthy genres falling out of favour as gamers seek new experiences to test new architectures. The transition from the 16bit consoles to the PlayStation era, for example, saw the focus shift from traditional isometric RPGs and 2D beat-'em ups to flashy 3D arcade conversions like Tekken and Daytona. The PS2 brought with it an age of third-person platform adventures and stealth campaigns as gaming demographics widened.All trends are cyclical, and statistically almost nothing survives beyond five years. The big Japanese publishers such as Nintendo, Capcom, Square Enix and Konami have managed to maintain interest in their legacy brands, but the likes of Final Fantasy, Super Mario, Gran Turismo and Street Fighter tend to be either radically overhauled to fit with the prevailing trends, or developed over periods of two or three years ensuring a welcoming fanbase when the release finally comes.The big challenge for Activision now is in ensuring Call of Duty can play an important role in showcasing the technology of the coming generation. Already, gamers are getting excited about relative newcomers such as Watchdogs, Star Wars 1313 and Team Bondi's Whore of the Orient. Can Treyarch and Infinity Ward make that difficult generational leap? Will we care about authentic military shooters next year or the year after?Black Ops 2 has done a couple of very telling things. By setting the game in the future, it has introduced CoD fans to the idea of science fiction; perhaps this will be something of a Trojan horse. Back in 2008, Infinity Ward, the creator of the Modern Warfare titles wasrumouredto have been working on a sci-fi shooter before the fall-out with studio heads Jason West and Vince Zampella. Now those two are working on whatappears to be, yes, a sci-fi shooter at their new place, Respawn Entertainment, but perhaps their old colleagues are also continuing their own plans in this direction.The latest Black Ops also introduces a branching story and real-time strategy elements to its single-player campaign. Critical responses to both have been mixed so far, but there's an indication that Activision knows its corridor shooter formula is looking staid in comparison to open-world adventures like Dishonored.Dominant genres rise and fall. JRPG, RTS, arena shooter, stealth shooter, gangster shooter... all have risen to the top, peaked and faded. It will be fascinating to see how Black Ops 2 fares this Christmas, but more importantly, how long it keeps its stranglehold on the multiplayer gaming scene, and where its fans are likely to look when E3 arrives and brings with it the promise of something entirely new, or at least not entirely 10 years old.
Last week's debate in the Lords on the proposal to stop opt-out pornography filters was a perfect parable about the dangers of putting technically unsophisticated legislators in charge of technology regulation.The Lords are contemplating legislation to require internet service providers and phone companies to censor their internet connections by default, blocking "adult content," unless an over-18 subscriber opts out of the scheme.On its face, this seems like a reasonable plan. When I wrote to my MP, Meg Hillier, to let her know I objected to the scheme, she wrote back to say that despite the imperfections in a porn filter, it was better than nothing because kids would always be more sophisticated than their parents when it came to internet technology. The last part is mostly true, but the first part is a nonsense.In order to filter out adult content on the internet, a company has to either look at all the pages on the internet and find the bad ones, or write a piece of software that can examine a page on the wire and decide, algorithmically, whether it is inappropriate for children.Neither of these strategies are even remotely feasible. To filter content automatically and accurately would require software capable of making human judgments – working artificial intelligence, the province of science fiction.As for human filtering: there simply aren't enough people of sound judgment in all the world to examine all the web pages that have been created and continue to be created around the clock, and determine whether they are good pages or bad pages. Even if you could marshal such a vast army of censors, they would have to attain an inhuman degree of precision and accuracy, or would be responsible for a system of censorship on a scale never before seen in the world, because they would be sitting in judgment on a medium whose scale was beyond any in human history.Think, for a moment, of what it means to have a 99% accuracy rate when it comes to judging a medium that carries billions of publications.Consider a hypothetical internet of a mere 20bn documents that is comprised one half "adult" content, and one half "child-safe" content. A 1% misclassification rate applied to 20bn documents means 200m documents will be misclassified. That's 100m legitimate documents that would be blocked by the government because of human error, and 100m adult documents that the filter does not touch and that any schoolkid can find.In practice, the misclassification rate is much, much worse. It's hard to get a sense of the total scale of misclassification by censorware because these companies treat their blacklists as trade secrets, so it's impossible to scrutinise their work and discover whether they're exercising due care.What's more, many of the people whose content is misclassified are not in a position to discover this (because they are operating a website from outside the country and can't tell if they're being blocked unless a reader in the UK tells them so), and the readers whose requested documents are blocked are often children, or technical naifs, neither of whom are likely to know how to effectively complain about their blocks.But it's instructive to look at the literature on overblocking. In 2003, theElectronic Frontier Foundationtested the censorware used by US schools to see how many of the most highly-ranked documents on concepts from the national school curriculum were blocked by the school's own censorware. They discovered that 75-85% of these sites were incorrectly classified. That percentage went way, way up when it came to sensitive subjects such as sexuality, reproductive health, and breast cancer.That study is a decade old, and dates from a time when the web was comparatively minuscule. Today's web is thousands of times larger than the web of 2003. But labour isn't thousands of times cheaper, and good content has not gotten thousands of times easier to distinguish from bad content in the interim.So when Lady Benjamin spoke of wanting to protect "students doing research for a project", she should have also been thinking of protecting students' access to the documents necessary to do their homework. I just returned from a tour with my new young adult novel, Pirate Cinema, that had me visiting schools in 18 cities in the US and Canada.Over and over again, teachers and students described the problems they had with school censorware. Not only did their networks block the wrong thing, but what was blocked changed from minute to minute, making it nearly impossible to integrate the internet into curriculum and presentations.Teachers told me that they'd queue up a video to show to their afternoon class, only to have it incorrectly blocked over the lunchbreak, leaving their lesson plan in tatters, with only minutes to come up with an alternative. Students who had come to rely on a site for information related to a project returned to those sites to confirm something, only to discover that it had been put out of reach by a distant, unaccountable contractor working for the school board.But it's not just "good" material that gets misclassified. There is unquestionably alotof material on the internet kids shouldn't be seeing, and it multiplies at a staggering rate. Here, you have the inverse of the overblocking problem. Miss 1% – or 10%, or a quarter – of the adult stuff, and you allow a titanic amount of racy material through. Students who are actively seeking this material – the modern equivalent of looking up curse words in the school dictionary – will surely find it. Students who are innocently clicking from one place to another will, if they click long enough, land on one of these sites. The only way to prevent this is to block the internet.So when Lady Massey complains that Starbucks has failed its civic duty by allowing unfiltered internet connections in its cafes, she's rather missing the point. Even a filtered connection would pose little challenge to someone who wanted to look at pornography in a public place. Meanwhile, any filter deployed by Starbucks will block all manner of legitimate material that its customers have every right to look at.The only way to stop people from looking at porn – in print or online – in Starbucks is to ask them to leave if you see them doing it.So far, I've been writing as though "adult" content can be trivially distinguished from "family friendly" content. The reality is a lot muddier. There's plenty of material in a day's newspaper that I wouldn't want my four-year-old daughter to hear about, from massacres and rapes in Mali to the tawdry personal stories on the agony aunt page. Sorting the "adult" internet from the "child" internet is a complex problem with no right answer.But you'd never know it, to listen to the censorware vendors. WhenBoing Boing, the website I co-own, was blocked by one censorware site, it was on the grounds that we were a "nudity" site. That was because, among the tens of thousands of posts we'd made, a few were accompanied by (non-prurient, strictly anatomical) small images showing some nudity.When we argued our case to the vendor's representative, he was categorical: any nudity, anywhere on the site, makes it into a "nudity site" for the purposes of blocking. The vendor went so far as to state that a single image of Michelangelo's David, on one page among hundreds of thousands on a site, would be sufficient grounds for a nudity classification.I suspect that none of the censorship advocates in the Lords understand that the offshore commercial operators they're proposing to put in charge of the nation's information access apply this kind of homeopathic standard to objectionable material.When Lady Howe compares mandatory, opt-out censorware to a rule that requires newsagents to rack their pornographic magazines on the top shelf, I doubt she would stretch her analogy to saying, "If a magazine comprising a hundred thousand pages has a single picture of Michelangelo's David anywhere in its pages, it must have a brown paper cover and be put out of reach of children."Such an analogy is a nonsense. We don't have magazines with a hundred thousand pages. We don't have town halls or round-tables with millions of participants, all speaking at once. We don't have cable or satellite packages with a billion video channels. Though it is sometimes useful to draw analogies between the internet and all the media of yesteryear, it's important not to lose sight of the fact that these are only analogies, and that the only thing that the internet can properly be compared to is the internet.But back to censorware, and the vendor who censored my site. That company and its competitors are pretty unsavoury. The company does most of its business with Middle Eastern dictatorships, who rely on its software to stop its citizenry from reading the world's free press. The whole censorware industry's bread and butter is selling software that despots use to commit, and cover up, human rights abuse.These are the firms that we're proposing to put in charge of the nation's information. What's more, as I'vewritten in the past, internet censorship cannot be separated from internet surveillance. If these companies are to stop us from seeing the pages they've blocked (according to their own secret, arbitrary criteria), they have to be able to look at all the pages we request, in order to decide which page requests may be passed through and which ones may be blocked.What's more, as Hillier was quick to remind me, kids are pretty technologically sophisticated. Kids whose parents rely on this filter will discover quickly that their kids have no trouble evading it. As I discovered on my tour, kids know how to search for open proxies on the internet and to use them to beat the filters. Unfortunately, by driving kids to these filters, we put them at risk of surveillance from another group of unaccountable strangers, as the proxy-operators have the ability to see (and even to interfere with) the kids' traffic.Filtering isn't better than nothing. It blocks unimaginable mountains of legitimate content. It allows enormous quantities of the most ghastly pornography through. It gives unaccountable, sleazy censorware companies the ability to spy on all of our online activity. It doesn't help parents control their kids' online activities.Lord Swinfen says this is a plan to "ensure children do not accidentally stumble on pornography". He says that its opponents oppose all internet regulation. But really, this proposal isn't about preventing kids from seeing porn, it's about slightly reducing the likelihood that they will. Opposing this law isn't about opposing all internet regulations, just bad ones that do almost no good and enormous harm.I don't have a good plan for stopping kids — even my kid — from seeking out bad stuff on the internet. I sit with her when she uses the net (something I can do while she's small and doesn't have her own phone) and help her understand how to navigate the net, and what I expect from her. I can only hope that this will be sufficient, because there is no filter, no app, no parental control, that will stop her from getting access to bad stuff if she really wants to. That's the reality of things. If the Chinese government – with its titanic resources and armies of network engineers – can't stop its citizens from seeing the things it wants to block, what hope do I have?I know that my position would be stronger if I could offer an alternative to censorware. But such an alternative would be wishful thinking. When the government decides that it is its job to stop kids from accidentally or deliberately seeing adult material on the internet, it is tantamount to putting out a call for magic beans, and announcing that the budget for these magic beans is essentially unlimited. As we've seen before – with NHS IT integration, the national database, and other expensive and wasteful IT boondoggles – there is no shortage of unscrupulous sorts in nice suits who'll offer to sell you as many magic beans as you're buying. That doesn't make magic beans any better at solving the nation's problems. The fact that someone will sell you a solution to the great, intractable problems of the modern age doesn't mean that it will work.
Steven Sinofsky, the head of the Windows division at Microsoft who had been seen by some as a future chief executive of the software giant, is toleave the company.The shock move comes just two weeks after the launch of Windows 8, seen as make-or-break for the company struggling to redefine itself in a world where computing no longer happens on desktop PCs, but increasingly on mobiles and tablets.Sinofsky had been at the company for 23 years, and was one of the people who tipped Bill Gates off to the importance of the internet in 1994 when it had looked as though Microsoft might ignore the rising importance of the network system.But according to reports, there had been growing executive friction between Sinofsky and other top executives at the company. Steve Ballmer, who has been chief executive since late 1999, told staff in a memo on Monday that "Steven Sinofsky has decided to leave the company".In a later press release, he said: "To continue [Windows'] success it is imperative that we continue to drive alignment across all Microsoft teams, and have more integrated and rapid development cycles for our offerings.""This is shocking news. This is very surprising," Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities, told Reuters. "Like a lot of people, I thought Sinofsky was in line to potentially be Ballmer's successor."The move comes just weeks afterApple shook up its executive ranks, with Tim Cook dismissing Scott Forstall, head of the iPhone software division amid reports Forstall had been a divisive presence within the company.During his career, Sinofsky had been in charge of the Office suite – Microsoft's other biggest profit earner beside Windows – and was given the specific task of persuading the company's engineers not to move to Google. He took over the Windows division in 2009, and led the development of Windows 8, which unites the visual appearance of Windows and its mobile incarnation, Windows Phone.Sinofsky also pushed through the decision to make Windows available for tablets, seen as a rising threat to Windows on the desktop.His place will be taken by Julie Larson-Green, another Windows executive who has been at Microsoft nearly as long as Sinofsky – joining in 1993 – and will be in charge of hardware and software for Windows, which is one of Microsoft's two key profit generators, along with its Office software suite.Sinofsky gave no reason for leaving, though hecommented on Twitter– where he has the username @stevesi – that he was "reading all of these [tweets] and feeling humbled and and [sic] blessed."Al Hilwa, program director for application software at the research company IDC, told the Guardian: "I actually don't expect this to have much effect in the short term. The company is effectively at the tail end of a significant product rollout and if there were going to be personnel changes, this is the time for them. It is akin to cabinet changes after an election. If this had happened before Windows 8 shipped, I would have worried about potential delays."Ballmer has overseen a clearout of a number of senior executives at Microsoft's divisions in the past three years, and also lost one key executive, Stephen Elop, who left the Office division to run Finnish phone maker Nokia – although that move has seen a tieup in the mobile space for Microsoft's software.Microsoft's profits are still some of the largest in the business, but analysts have questioned how it can compete given its relative weakness in search and the mobile space – although Ballmer has worked hard to redefine Microsoft as a software company that offers comprehensive cloud-based services online.Hilwa added: "The strategy of folding PC, tablet, phone and set-top into a single platform and ecosystem is the right strategy, and likely will continue to be the strategy of record."There are some important decisions that Microsoft has to make going forward that are likely the subject of extensive internal debate, including how deep to get into making its own hardware devices, how to handle ultra-cheap devices from an OS licensing perspective, how to converge phone and tablet more tightly for developers to better compete with iOS and Android, how to drive existing PC and enterprise users to generate more upgrade revenues, or how to make significant software improvements on a more rapid cadence such as six months or a year instead of two to three years."These decisions may benefit from fresher eyes and ears at Microsoft and require working exceptionally well across divisions."Richard Windsor, former analyst at Nomura Securities, said: "I view Steve Ballmer as an engineering-driven, drill sergeant who can be a bit like a bull in a china shop."Historically, this approach has been very effective but the new challenges that Microsoft now faces arguably needs a more creative mind to address."Hence, the idea that Steve Ballmer is staying on is negative to me but will probably please the gents over at [Apple's headquarters at] Infinite Loop."
Tuesday is here! Hello, Tuesday! Hey everyone, it's Tuesday!
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFSA examines whistleblower's claims of 'Libor-like' manipulation in gas prices &gt;&gt; The GuardianThe City watchdog, the Financial Services Authority, is investigating claims by a whistleblower that Britain's £300bn wholesale gas market has been "regularly" manipulated by some of the big power companies, exploiting weaknesses that echo the recent Libor scandal.Ooo.Secrets, Schemes, and Lots of Guns: Inside John McAfee's Heart of Darkness &gt;&gt; GismodoIt's not too unusual for eccentric gringos to wind up in Central America and slowly turn stranger--"Rich white men who come to Belize and act strangely are kind of a type," one local journalist told me. But this one's story is more peculiar than most. John McAfee is a founding father of the anti-virus software industry, an inveterate self-promoter who built an improbable web security empire on the principles of trust and reliability, then poured his startup fortune into a series of sprawling commune-like retreats, presenting himself in the public eye as a paragon of engaged, passionate living: "Success, for me," he has said, "is being able to wake up in the morning and feel like a 12 year old." But down in Belize, McAfee the enlightened Peter Pan seems to have refashioned himself into a kind of final-reel Scarface.Definitely one of the weirdest stories you'll read this week, unless you're really into weird stuff already.Government welcomes HTC-Apple patent settlement &gt;&gt; CNA ENGLISH NEWSThe settlement will have a positive effect on Taiwan's exports as a major part of its ICT shipments are from HTC, said Chen Ming-shih, a spokesman for the Ministry of Economic Affairs' Bureau of Foreign Trade.The Taiwanese smartphone vendor's efforts to sell products in the United States and Europe had been adversely affected by the patent disputes and the European debt crisis, Chen added.ICT showed the sharpest decline of Taiwan's exports in October, falling by 36.1% to US$1.2bn. In other words, almost all was HTC.Samsung hits Apple with 20% price hike: report &gt;&gt; MarketWatchSamsung Electronics , the world's largest technology firm by revenue, raised the price of mobile processor supplied to Apple Inc. by 20% recently, Chosun Ilbo reported Monday, citing a person familiar with negotiations between the two tech giants."Samsung Electronics recently asked Apple for a significant price raise in (the mobile processor known as) application processor," the person was quoted as saying in the report. "Apple first disapproved it, but finding no replacement supplier, it accepted the (increase.)"Any foundry that can make ARM-architecture chips might be expecting a phone call. Then again, Samsung is clearly the sole supplier.Where are the 7in Microsoft tablets? &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionHal Berenson:A few days ago I was contemplating a blog post with my speculation about a 7in Microsoft tablet when rumors of an "Xbox Surface" re-surfaced.  I tend to believe this rumor because I've been expecting that a portable Xbox family member would appear, something I discussed back in aMarch 2011blog posting.  Seems like I speculated on the wrong specific solution but may have gotten it right on the strategic side.Anyway, the reason I was thinking about this topic was Windows marketing chief Tami Reller's comment that there were no 7in Windows tablets on the way.   Given that this area is exploding, and has now been legitimized by Apple, I was wondering how Microsoft could ignore such a high-volume market segment.He doesn't think they'll ignore it.November 2007: Symbian, Nokia, Microsoft and Apple downplay Android relevance &gt;&gt; EngadgetFrom November 2007, when the Open Handset Alliance had just been announced, but there was no hardware. Most of those quoted didn't see the point. One key difference: the quote from Apple is from a spokesperson; the other companies quoted have senior people speaking.Just as interesting are the comments, which rather give the lie to the idea of the "wisdom of the crowd". (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Apple pays Swiss rail $21m over clock dispute: report &gt;&gt;AFPThe company agreed in October to pay the lump sum so it could continue using SBB's Swiss-designed station clock face on its iPads and iPhones, the Tages-Anzeiger daily reported on its website, quoting several unnamed sources.At 200m iOS 6 devices, that's about 10 cents per infringement.Let's go back to patenting the "solution", not the "problem" &gt;&gt; Wired.comMark Lemley, Stanford professor and partner at Durie Tangri LLP:...broad functional claiming is back. This is partly because of the way the means-plus-function claim rules have been interpreted by the Federal Circuit. Patentees have been able to write broad functional claims without being subject to the limitations of section 112(f).But it's also because of the nature of computer programming.Functional claiming of software inventions is arguably responsible for most of the well-recognized problems with software patents today. Software patentees have increasingly been claiming to own the function of their program itself - not merely the particular way they achieved that goal.His argument would be really powerful if he were to cite an example, but he doesn't. (Thanks @hotsoup for the link.)China Telecom prepares for Apple's iPhone 5 &gt;&gt; WSJ.comSome analysts say that the longer it takes for China to approve the phone, the more users will look to smartphones running Google Inc.'s Android operating system.Despite Apple's success in China, it has been losing market share to Android-based smartphones. Phones running Android mobile software claimed a 59% share of the high-end niche in the second quarter, compared with 41% a year earlier, according to Analysys. Apple sold 2.3 million handsets while Android makers sold 3.5 million in the segment, the research firm said.(Subscription required.)Microsoft admits Surface keyboard splitting problem &gt;&gt; ZDNetMicrosoft acknowledged the issue in a statement sent to ZDNet on Friday."Microsoft makes every effort to ensure our customers receive a high quality product. We are in active contact with our Customer Support operations and are aware of a small number of instances of material separation," the spokeswoman said.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
The telecoms regulator Ofcom has given mobile operators four weeks to join the auction for superfast 4G/LTE mobile broadband spectrum.Theselloff, which will raise at least £1.3bn – and perhaps up to £4bn – for the Treasury, is planned to start in January 2013, and operators should be providing services as soon as May.Vodafone, O2 and Three are expected to be first to stump up the £100,000 deposit required. Unlike the UK's other main mobile carrier Everything Everywhere they do not have permission, or the necessary bandwidth, to provide 4G services.EE began offering superfast services on 30 October, although prices for the service have been daunting for all but the better-off.The timetable follows years of bickering and threats of court action between mobile carriers desperate not to lose ground – or customers – to rivals which might get a headstart in offering 4G.Ofcom chief executive Ed Richards said: "Today marks an important shift from preparation to the delivery of the auction, which will see widespread 4G mobile services from a range of providers."The entire industry is now focused on the auction itself, with a shared goal of delivering new and improved mobile services for consumers."4G services will provide much faster internet connections for smartphones and tablets with the correct functionality, although they cannot carry voice calls. Though Ofcom says it will be the UK's biggest ever sale of spectrum, bigger in frequency terms than the 3G sell-off in 2000, it is not expected to raise anything near the £22.5bn that auction realised. The licences will be granted in March under the timetable.Brian Potterill, director in PwC's telecoms strategy team, suggested that the total collected for the Treasury would amount to between £2bn and £4bn. "All parties will share some relief that this auction is now finally going to happen and we can move on to enjoying the benefits of competition in 4G services," he said.EE may enter the auction too because it has been ordered by Ofcom to hand over some of its 4G frequencies to Three in autumn 2013. Other new entrants could join the bidding.The spectrum has become available following the "digital switchover", in which digital TV signals have replaced analogue ones, leaving unused frequencies that can carry digital data.EE, the owner of T-Mobile and Orange, is currently the only mobile operator in the UK with enough spectrum to offer 4G capability. Its three rivals, Vodafone, Telefonica and Three, are expected to join the group as frontrunners for additional frequencies as demand for mobile broadband continues to skyrocket, although the auction is also open to new entrants.EE's 4G services were launched on October 30 in 11 major cities including London, Southampton, Bristol and Birmingham.
According to conventional wisdom, books and games are incompatible: the latter are often blamed by parents for a lack of interest among the former in their offspring.But Sony's London Studio has hit upon a very clever way of bridging that apparent chasm, in the form of Wonderbook. The Wonderbook is a blue, hardback book whose covers and pages, in its naked state, are covered with the sort of patterns (not unlike QR codes) that you find on Augmented Reality cards.It works with the PS3's PlayStation Camera and Move controller setup, is reusable, and the first piece of game-style software it works with couldn't be more appealing to parents: Miranda Goshawk's Book of Spells drops you slap-bang in the middle of Harry Potter's universe.Book of Spells certainly isn't a game in the conventional sense: instead, it takes you back to school. A prospect which may fill many of us with dread, except that the school in question is Hogwarts, and the crash-course on which you're embarking is spell-casting.There are 20 spells to learn, which start simply and build to the more potent and destructive efforts you would need to, say, challenge Lord Voldemort (who, sadly, doesn't make an appearance, although there's always the prospect of downloadable content).Initially, there are some setup chores to get out of the way, although the PlayStation Eye/Move combination's biggest strength is that it isn't difficult to get up and running.Once you've stuck the camera on top of your TV and positioned it so that it's pointing at you sitting cross-legged on the floor (or on a sofa) and can see the book in front of you, you're ready to roll. Grasp the Move, and you're given a modicum of control over what design of wand you want it to morph into.Specify your favoured house at Hogwarts, and give it your Pottermore login details (if appropriate) and the preamble is done.Now, the mirror-image of yourself staring back from the TV screen can be seen clutching a wand, and the blue book magically transforms into Miranda Goshawk's Book of Spells.Cutely, it's covered in virtual dust, which you must brush off with your hands (demonstrating how the system tracks your body as well as the book and the Move). A sparkly area appears on the front cover: aim your wand at it and pull the trigger, and words will leap up from the page, a convention which persists throughout. Parents can turn off the voiceover if they want to use Book of Spells as an aid to reading.Book of Spells is reassuringly rigid in its structure: it consists five chapters, each split in two, with the chance to learn between one and three spells in each half-chapter.Once you've finished the first chapter, you can tackle the subsequent ones in any order. The spells consist an incantation (which is accurate in terms of the Potterverse, but not necessary when you're spellcasting) and a gesture to make with the wand. Generally, once you've got a spell going, you can cast it in the right direction with a flick of the wrist; some involve hovering over the right area, then pressing the Move's trigger.There are other elements to Book of Spells, naturally. Sometimes you come across pop-up book-style dioramas which tell the stories of the witches and wizards who invented the spells, and a previous owner of the book has added scribbling which lead to bonus curses and spells.You're tested on each spell individually and, at the end of each chapter, you have to put them all together in imaginative ways, in order to solve specific problems. Depending on how well you perform, you'll be awarded between five and 15 House Points.As you work through the spells, you're transported to different parts of Hogwarts. You might, for example, find yourself in the Herbology classroom, having to harden bits of ground to stop encroaching elves from stealing Golden Galleons, or in the library, flicking Stun spells at attacking wizards.The feeling of actually being in Hogwarts, living a life much like that of Harry Potter, is deeply appealing, and will surely make young Harry Potter fans very happy indeed.The game is pitched fairly young: 13-year-olds and over, who are likely to have played more conventional games, will probably find it somewhat basic once the initially euphoria of entering the Potterverse has worn off. Although it's clear that JK Rowling has had plenty of involvement: there's a wealth of new material regarding the mythology around each spell, and it's all as sharply and amusingly written as you would expect.Those approaching Wonderbook: Book of Spells expecting fast-twitch gameplay will be disappointed (although the later spells require a certain amount of reflex action and precision).However, to expect that would be to miss the point entirely: it's essentially a digital babysitter. Any parent with Harry Potter-obsessed kids under the age of 12 and a PlayStation 3 will find it an absolute boon: you can park a bunch of kids in front of it and leave them to their own devices, safe in the knowledge that they should remain enthralled for at least an hour, and it won't be rotting their brains.Even though only one person can play it at a time, its immersive nature means a group of kids can feel as though they have entered Hogwarts, and you could envisage them taking turns with the Move.Book of Spells is very much Wonderbook 1.0, and future Wonderbook content, such as Diggs Nightcrawler, will introduce other forms of interaction (Sony is also collaborating with the BBC on Walking With Dinosaurs on Wonderbook, and has signed a deal with Disney for unspecified content). If you already own a PlayStation Eye/Move combo, it's pretty good value, and you can also buy a bundle with those items (which add an extra £35). Respect is due to Sony for figuring out how to turn Augmented Reality from an interesting tech-demo into something that makes commercial sense, and feels truly original.
The renowned and controversial Grand Theft Auto series of video games isreturning, and this time a leading character won't be some teenage street thug or ambitious master criminal – but a rich retiree with a spoilt family.The first details of Grand Theft Auto V, due out in spring 2013, have emerged this weekend, sending gamers into paroxysms of excitement.The crime adventure titles, created by British developers and all set in vast open-world environments based on major US cities, have together sold more than 120m copies worldwide since the series started in 1997. The latest instalment is expected to shift in excess of 20m copies and is likely to make more money than most Hollywood blockbusters.A major change from the previous games is that players will swap between three characters instead of just one, dropping in and out of their lives at will.But the fact that one of them is an ageing ex-bank robber named Michael has raised some eyebrows. "We had the idea of using an older protagonist — it was something interesting, something different," says Dan Houser, who co-founded Rockstar Games – the company behind Grand Theft Auto – with his brother, Sam, in 1998 and has been a writer on the series for 14 years. The brothers grew up in south-west London."We wondered, what happens to the hero of a GTA title – or is it anti-hero? I don't even know myself! But what happens to them after their game ends? Well, this is what happens to them: they try to retire, they may have a wife and children, but they're still lunatics in some ways. For people like this, there isn't a pipe and slippers happy ever after."Although based in America, the GTA games are developed at Rockstar's studio in Edinburgh. "It was a response to watching a combination of gangster movies and those Police, Camera, Action! programmes," says Houser, in a rare interview. "It was always about this British take on the country, a more nuanced look at Americana."Although critically acclaimed, the series has run into trouble over the past 15 years. There have been numerous calls to have the games banned, mostly from the sorts of attention-seeking politicians and grandstanding lawyers the games have cleverly parodied. Rockstar has faced legal action and tabloid protests, and in 2006 senior staff were interrogated by the US Federal Trade Commission for nine hours after a sexually explicit scene, which was cut from GTA III: San Andreas, was discovered in the game's source code by hackers and distributed online.Yet the series has survived and seems to have matured in the process. Grand Theft Auto IV, set in a dark, gloomy version of New York named Liberty City, follows a disillusioned immigrant searching for the American dream but falling into crime and despair. GTA V doesn't just have an older character at its core, its setting — Los Santos — is a pastiche of contemporary LA, painted as a crumbling edifice of lost hopes. "The game is about LA in the post-Hollywood world," says Houser. "When you go there, the movies are all leaving. That's more thematically interesting to us. This game is about the people left behind."It's also an interesting cultural full-circle: the movie Drive, which many believe was heavily influenced by the Grand Theft Auto games, was also set in a downbeat LA.Rockstar is premiering a new trailer of the game this Wednesday, showing new footage of the richly detailed environment, which extends over hundreds of virtual miles, taking in towns, deserts and even ocean floors. For Houser, the fun and freedom of the world is one thing, but there is also a desire to think about the nature of criminality, loss and spent dreams. "New York is America's response to Europe," he says. "But LA is America's response to America. This is where the western world ends, literally and metaphorically."Asked about the new GTA title featuring a retiree prominently, Paul Green, director of communications at Saga, noted that the character was a criminal, so this was perhaps not "the perfect leap forward" for depictions of older people in popular culture, but paid credit to the developers for "reflecting real life"."It's important that games and other parts of the media give meaningful roles to older people," Green said. "Also, the over 50s have 80% of the nation's wealth, so they have more money to spend on entertaining themselves – look at the growth of older people with gaming devices such as iPads."
WhenFanatixlaunched in October 2011, it was pitched as a group messaging app for sports fans, getting them to check in to matches they were watching on TV or in the flesh, then chat to one another.As time moved on (and group messaging cooled as an app categort), the TV angle became more prominent: Fanatix as a second-screen "social TV platform for sports" for fans sitting on their sofas.Partnerships with Paddy Power for May 2012's Champions League final and Eurosport for summer tennis, motorsport and cycling events showed there was interest from broadcasters and betting companies in the idea of a dedicated second-screen sports app.The problem? The app wasn't that popular. By the end of April, Fanatix had just 500 daily active users. Chief executive Will Muirhead says the problem became clear by this point."We were always so focused around the live window: how do we get fans sitting on the sofa connected to fans in the ground or in the back of the taxi," he says."Yet with people using these mobile devices 24-7, we'd only been focusing on that 90-minute window. And one of the problems of being a pureplay social TV proposition is that unless you're part of someone's default activity, it's really hard to reactivate people."Or, in short: Fanatix wasn't habit-forming, because it was designed around the idea of fans using it once or twice a week, not several times a day. Cue a pivot in the startup's emphasis, if not its sporting focus.Muirhead now claims the app is aiming to "re-imagine the back page", pulling in news from a range of sources, as well as video highlights and club/team Twitter feeds.By the end of October, the app had 35k daily active users based on 250k downloads, with those active users firing up the app 5.5 times a day on average (and more than 10 times if they'd registered). It was at this point that Fanatix raised $1m (£630k) of new funding from angel investors, doubling its existing investment total."The debate around sport never stops. We all jumped on this bandwagon two years ago – 'Everyone's using devices when they watch TV' – but it overlooks this behaviour that we're using them all the time," says Muirhead."Forget about two hours a day in front of the TV: we can't stop looking at these things. And that helped us get our proposition right: what is it that we can deliver on these devices that keeps people engaged whenever they have a spare 30 seconds or 30 minutes."Aggregating newsSocial is still a big feature for Fanatix, but its app is as much a sports-focused news aggregator now, which Muirhead says solves a problem for sports fans who have a barrage of sources to choose from – websites, apps, official Twitter and Facebook feeds, YouTube channels etc – but no easy way to filter them.35k daily active users is a lot better than 500, but still a drop in the ocean of overall sports fandom. What is Fanatix planning to do with its new funding to push on?"It's all product: the product doesn't stop evolving," says Muirhead. "We're constantly integrating more feeds and deciphering them. Being able to semantically read what's going on and associate it with the relevant people is an ongoing battle."The company is also continuing to sign partnerships: most recently with Liverpool FC-focused blog Empire of the Kop for its ownclub-branded versionof Fanatix. Asimilar app has been launchedfor football website Tribal Football.New devices are also a priority. For now, Fanatix remains iOS-only – the company is working on a "very cool reinterpretation" of its app for Apple's iPad mini" – but I suspect Android needs to also be high on the company's agenda if it wants to reach a broad swathe of sports fans in the UK and abroad."The majority of the audience is UK-based, but we're starting to get real traction in the US, Australia, south east Asia, and we're launching a Portugese-language version imminently," says Muirhead."We know we've had relatively small downloads, but highly-engaged usage. Now we're going to work out how we get more and more downloads."For now, Fanatix's revenues come from advertising, which Muirhead says are working well at the app's current size. He thinks there is scope for premium subscriptions in the future too, praising the Financial Times' model as one inspiration on that front. And keep an eye on those gambling partnerships as the betting industry takes mobile even more seriously.Challengers awaitFanatix needs to be nimble, for it will face challenges from larger companies at numerous angles as it tries to grow.Pureplay social TV startups like Zeebox are keen to strike their own deals with sponsors and broadcasters around big events, while Twitter and Facebook are also likely to be working closer with big sports teams, TV firms and sporting bodies to hang on to the chatter around events.Muirhead's talk of rethinking "the back page" won't go unnoticed by media companies either, who may be keen to build their own mobile communities around sports. Gambling companies like Betfair, which has been working hard on its mobile apps, may also see the appeal of adding more social features.And then there are broadcasters. Why wouldn't someone like BSkyB build their own version of Fanatix?"Sky's never going to be a social network," says Muirhead, confidently. "I don't think any existing brand can just decide they're going to become something else. It is really, really tricky, and it's the same for newspapers."I'm not so sure, especially if someone like Sky chose to do this via partnership – note itsinvestment in Zeeboxand integration of that company's second-screen featuresin its Sky+ iPad app– or acquisition.The latter, of course, may be Fanatix's exit strategy, whether Sky or another media company. "There aren't a great many examples of big firms innovating internally and breaking new ground," says Muirhead."In the UK especially, there's this familiar question of 'isn't some bigger entity going to do this? In the States, though, it's almost taken as a given that they're not. It's going to be the new entrant who gets it right, because they're focused on it."
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 10 NovemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)12 (1)Assassin's Creed Iii(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (44)23 (2)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (41)Wii (4)VITA (3)74 (5)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (42)VITA (6)PC (1)25 (4)Football Manager 2013(3+)PC (100)26 (8)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (44)Xbox 360 (36)47 (3)Wwe '13(16+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (42)28 (19)Borderlands 2(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (33)PC (6)89 (9)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (92)Xbox 360 (7)PS3 (1)610 (6)Medal Of Honor: Warfighter(16+)PS3 (47)Xbox 360 (49)311 (7)Forza Horizon(12+)Xbox 360 (100)312 (12)Moshi Monsters: Moshlings Theme Park(3+)DS (70)3DS (30)313 (13)Resident Evil 6(18+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (50)614 (10)Dishonored(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (37)PC (11)515 (16)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (85)PS3 (9)PC (7)4816 (11)Professor Layton And The Miracle Mask(7+)3DS (100)317 (17)F1 2012(3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (47)PC (2)818 (–)New Super Mario Bros. 2(3+)3DS (100)1219 (–)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)2220 (20)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (25)Wii (24)DS (14)3DS (11)21UKIEGames Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Google, Amazon and Starbucks will face aggressive and detailed questioning by MPs on Monday over their decision to base their European businesses outside the UK to avoid paying full UK tax.Responding to a growing public anger over corporate tax avoidance and heightened by high-profile government cuts to public services, the public accounts select committee will be askingGoogle, Amazonand Starbucks to explain structures such as Ireland- and Luxembourg-registered offices which incur lower tax rates, and also how they charge their own subsidiary companies for services, a practice known as transfer pricing.The session begins at 3.15pm, with Google UK chief executive Matt Brittin and Amazon public policy director Andrew Cecil due to appear. Starbucks chief financial officer Troy Alstead and UK managing director Kris Engskov will also give evidence.The companies' tax avoidance methods have been criticised by MPs, while even the Taxpayers' Alliance – which usually criticises the levels of tax demanded by government – told the Guardian that "some big companies with clever accountants can exploit loopholes to minimise their bills" with the result that "families are left feeling short-changed."Economist and tax campaigner Richard Murphy said there is strong and consistent evidence that even if companies haven't acted illegally, they have conspired to pay less tax. "These are legal artifices created to result in paying less tax," he said. "The avoidance is in setting up the structure and they chose to set it up that way."Charlie Elphicke MP told the Commons on 5 November that Amazon hadpaid an effective UK tax rate of 2.5% on 2011 earnings of £309bn.Google paid 0.4% on £2.5bn. Starbucks paid nothing, though its UK earnings were £365m.Committee chair Margaret Hodge told the Guardian that the movement against corporate tax avoidance had huge bipartisan support across the House of Commons as well as growing public awareness, and could ultimately damage the reputation of the companies concerned."Most of these companies proclaim a strong corporate responsibility ethos, yet the most basic responsibility they have is to pay their fair share into the common purse," she said. "The fact that they create jobs is an absurd argument. We have to ensure that where companies are making money in the UK, they pay their fair share, and there is a duty on HMRC to do all it can to ensure those rules are strictly and fairly adhered to."Hodge conceded that international regulation is needed to prevent companies choosing to locate their profits in low-tax zones, but said there is also growing appetite across Europe for action, not least because of a new and ambitious tax director at the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Pascal Saint-Amans. The OECD has been asked by G20 finance ministers to strengthen standards around tax for multinationals.The French government has been bullish about tax avoidance, with unconfirmed reports that authorities sent a $1bn (£629m) a tax bill to Google for a four-year period of financial transfers to its Ireland holding. Google told the Guardian no bill had been received. Since then it has lost an appeal in a Paris court to invalidate the search and seizure of documents by the French tax authorities, and was forced to pay costs."Google has not received any tax assessment from the French tax administration," the company said. "We have and will continue to co-operate with the authorities in France. Google complies with tax law in every country in which the company operates and with European laws."Amazon is under particular scrutiny because of itsregistered base in Luxembourg, which allowed it to generate £3.3bn of sales in the UK last year yet pay no corporation tax. It has also been able to pay 3% VAT on UK book sales, rather than the 20% UK rate, though last month the European Commission ordered that Luxembourg close that loophole.Amazon did not respond to multiple requests for comment.Murphy said tax avoidance has become a mainstream electoral issue, though any reform would be long-term rather than sudden and radical. He noted significantly more co-ordination and interest at national and international levels, and that it is beginning to dawn on ministers that companies should not be able to divide themselves into different legal entities and "pretend to charge each other"."There is no requirement in law to maximise profit for shareholders, and it is very unclear in US law too," Murphy said. "But there is a legal duty to act in the best interest of shareholders and that doesn't necessarily mean minimising the tax bill – it might mean operating a business that is attractive to customers."Matthew Sinclair, chief executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said in a statement that the UK tax system has lost its legitimacy. "Britain's hideously complex tax code means some big companies with clever accountants can exploit loopholes to minimise their bills," he said. "Others can take advantage of how HMRC are busy trying to administer an unwieldy set of rules, instead of chasing down those who try to abuse the system. Families are left feeling short changed and let down by their politicians.Sinclair added: "We need serious tax reform to ensure everyone pays no more or less than their fair share."During the first hearing with HMRC officials last Monday, Hodge said that individuals and small businesses in her constituency complained of feeling harassed over tax collection, while larger corporates were invited in for coffee and able to sign up to tax efficiency schemes offered by the largest four accountancy firms."The corporate sector has grown since 2004-05, even despite the events of 2008-09 and a double-dip recession," said Hodge, questioning Lin Homer, chief executive and permanent secretary of the HMRC. "It has grown, yet you are taking more from … hard-working individuals paying their PAYE than you are from corporations … You are saying you are doing that deliberately because government wants to make this an easy place to be."Homer replied: "The government's position on multinationals is that we do want them to see the UK as competitive… We do expect everybody to pay their fair share. Corporation tax has been coming down, but not to those [5.5% advertised to KPMG clients] levels."The committee could eventually recommend a change in regulation to end the practice of transfer pricing, advise that tax returns are made public or increase HMRC resources.HMRC has already said thatbudget cutswill make it difficult to prioritise corporate tax avoidance. It faces real-terms budget cuts of £2.1bn, despite the government pledging an extra £917m to combat corporate tax avoidance, and is also expected to lose 15,000 of its 65,000 staff over the next five years.
Two helicopters swoop down over the city, zigzagging between looming skyscrapers. They are searching for a third chopper, and they find it, hovering beside an anonymous government building. Quickly, the craft glides away from its pursuers while a gunman leans out and fires back.This is an aerial shoot-out, hundreds of feet above the densely crowded streets, a breathtaking action set-piece, befitting the most vainglorious Hollywood blockbuster. But you are in control; it's your movie. And as shots ring out, one chopper spirals out of the sky, black smoke billowing from its shattered tail. In the background, a neon pink sunset detonates across the sky.This is Grand Theft Auto V, the latest title in a series that has dragged video games kicking and screaming onto the cultural agenda. When the first details started leaking across the web last Thursday, social media channels went into meltdown as gamers scrambled for titbits of information. Many will be talking about little else for the next three months.Developed at Rockstar's Edinburgh studio, with input from several of the publisher's other developers around the globe, GTA V is another darkly humorous crime adventure, crammed with sleazy gangsters, corrupt politicos and dodgy cops. While GTA IV took place in Rockstar's cold, shadowy version of New York – the ironically titled Liberty City – the latest title heads cross-country to Los Santos, a monstrous, sprawling pastiche of Los Angeles.Here we meet lead character Michael, an ageing bank robber who fulfils that most fecund of crime-fiction archetypes: a crook who's made good, retired to a fancy house, but now misses the excitement of the old days. In the demo Rockstar shows us, he starts out sunbathing by the pool like Ray Winstone in Sexy Beast, the city shimmering in the distance beyond his landscaped gardens. The player is able to get up and explore the bleached stucco mansion, passing the tennis court (you can play a match if you like), then bumping into Michael's bored wife as she clambers into a sports car on the front drive. "If you want to know where I am, read your credit card statement," she yells as tyres squeal. "I'm feeling lucky, I'll check the hospitals!" he calls back. And slowly but surely, his previous career begins to beckon.The basic structure is similar to previous titles. There is a series of missions which have to be completed to tell the over-arching story, but when you're not taking part in these, you're free to explore the environment; driving the endless roads, discovering mini-games, meeting characters, and generally getting into trouble. But GTA V will also make some radical structural changes.In the past, players would have controlled a lone character all the way through the game. Here, you have three, switching between them at will. Alongside Michael, there's Franklin, a young kid working in vehicle repo for a bunch of Armenian gangsters, and the fascinating Trevor, a psychotic career criminal with a shady military background.These guys all have their own skills and specialities and will often attempt missions together, the player sticking with one character throughout the task, or swapping back and forth, relying on the computer to control the others.Why the change? Why three characters? "It was partly just to do something totally new," says Dan Houser, co-founder of Rockstar and co-writer of all the Grand Theft Auto titles since GTA London. "Partly, too, it was because at that point we were deep into the work on the two DLC episodes of GTA IV, and we thought, well, the bits where all the stories crossover is kind of cool, so why don't we just do that in one game? So okay, let's just do multiple characters. With Michael we wanted this older guy who's still tough, but he's retired. That's a great way to start a game – at the end. That seemed fresh."Franklin was the next one we came up with because we wanted a younger character, just so he could be the guy on the up, contrasting with the guy on the down – one could mentor the other. And in some ways, I suppose, Franklin is most like your traditional GTA protagonist. And then out of nowhere, the idea of Trevor came to us. He is the guy who does everything awful, relentlessly! He has his own charm, but he … he's a relentless maker of mischief. Not without some principles though, but totally different principles to Michael – an exact opposite take on what it means to be a protagonist in a GTA world. Michael is more about ego and Trevor is more about id, I suppose".This provides an interesting gameplay dynamic, but it is also about story. Instead of telling one tale which heightens toward a single dramatic finale, GTA V cuts between these three interlocking narratives, drawing parallels and distinctions between the men. And instead of one set-piece conclusion, the game is structured around a series of five or six mega-heists which take place throughout the game, and which other missions lead up to. The idea is to get gamers into big set-piece thrill-fests like GTA IV's Three Leaf Clover much more quickly.Some of the artwork Rockstar has released shows the characters jumping out of a van with gas masks, overalls and machine guns, bringing to mind Michael Mann's movie Heat. Like that film, this seems to be a game about professional criminals and the weird working relationships they maintain amid the testosterone and violence.Relationships seem key. In GTA IV, some people felt all that stuff got annoying – looking after Niko's cousin Roman, taking calls from gangsters wanting to hang out, catching up with girlfriends. There's no romance this time, but the phone is back ("we've evolved it to reflect the modern world with smartphones," says Dan), although it seems the interplay between the main characters will be the focus."You have other people you can hang out with, but the main people you choose are the other protagonists," he says, stressing that the intricacies are still being worked on. "If you're playing as Michael and you want to play a game of tennis, you can call up Franklin and ask him. You are actually getting to see the main bulk of the story and also spend time with these people off-mission – that side of it gives it a vibrancy that's a lot stronger than with Roman or anyone else."On the emotional narrative side, it's stronger just because of the nature of the rest of the game, and on the mechanics side, hopefully we've just designed it better, we've smoothed off the rough edges of it and made it a stronger part of the game".On the subject of Roman, there have been rumours other characters from previous games will turn up in GTA V. Dan says that no one before GTA IV will be in it – the move to HD created a schism in this fictional universe, rendering CJ, Tony and co, as mythical characters from a bygone era. But will we see stories from the previous game looping into this one? "I think that might be too mannered," says Houser. "Nico had a particular kind of story and we're trying to make this different. We might allude to things from that world, but we didn't want it to feel like, well, here's the opposite of an immigration story – we wanted a fresh take on what it means to be a criminal in this world of hyper-real Americana".It looks like there will be a new approach to music too. Inspired by Rockstar's successes with Red Dead and Max Payne, missions will now be accompanied by an interactive score rather than radio play. "We though could do something interesting if we scored missions in GTA," says Houser. "Obviously we didn't want to lose radio stations, so we thought we'd do both."Exactly how we're going to balance between the two we're not entirely sure yet – we're still trying to figure that out. But we have some very cool people doing the score, different people, who will work in the same stem-based system that we used in the other games".You forget how important music is in this game – and then you watch the GTA V demo and see Trevor leaping into a battered old truck and screaming off into the desert playing Radar Love, and it all comes back. It will be interesting to see how a score competes.Meanwhile, there's another reason why there are three lead characters: GTA V is too geographically immense for a lone protagonist to explore. This is the largest environment Rockstar has built, big enough – as many previews have pointed out already – to contain the last two GTA titles as well the publisher's vast Western adventure Red Dead Redemption.Like LA itself, Los Santos is a patchwork of neighbourhoods with a downtown area, a gang-infested southern district, and the prosperous areas in the hills. But the game world extends out into the fictitious state of San Andreas, Rockstar's interpretation of southern California. There are farmlands, deserts, villages, mountains; there is even a functioning ecosystem teeming with wildlife. Trevor lives in a stinking shack out in Blaine County, a deserted coastal region, modelled on California's Salton City. The first time we meet him, he's on the john having a noisy bowel movement; Rockstar never shies away from these sorts of details.Importantly, the whole map is open from the start. Players can take a chopper and fly out over the hills, parachuting down onto the peak of Mount Chiliad.  They can jet-ski, mountain bike, play golf, exercise. They don't have to, they just can.The city streets are teeming with mini-tasks and money-making endeavours. During our demo, we watch Franklin driving around downtown and notice a Gruppe 6 security van pull into a petrol station – we can turn that over for some quick cash, but will inevitably attract some fervent attention from the cops.Out in the sticks, beyond the city limits, the feel is more Red Dead Redemption, with dynamic encounters amid the wilderness; Game Informer's recent feature on the game mentions hitchhikers and broken down cars; all potential traps for unwary explorers."Environment is important," says Houser. "Games are very geographical – they present space almost better than they present time, and we try to use that, to showcase variety between different landscapes. It's this idea of a digital holiday: being able to explore spaces that don't really exist is one of the the things that's fascinating about open world games. It's not just about doing the activities we've set, there's also a sense of being there."If we've done a good job, the shoot-outs are fun but so is cruising through the world in a car you really like, listening to music – if these elements feel somehow consistent with each other, then we're on the right path to something cool".And, yes, the shoot-outs do look like fun. In the mission we're shown, Michael, Trevor and Franklin have been employed by a covert agency, the FIB, to swipe a prisoner from another set of government operatives. It involves piloting a helicopter to a downtown building, rappelling down a rope, smashing in through the windows, and getting back into the craft with your confused and terrified hostage.Michael is the one doing the smash and grab, while Trevor pilots the helicopter and Franklin lurks on a nearby rooftop with a sniper rifle, picking off enemy targets. Again, you can keep swapping between them, grabbing different aspects of the action, or you can stick with one protagonist, concentrating on your own key skills. It's exciting stuff, it's what we've always loved GTA for – that sense of freedom, of anarchy, in a functioning world. The sense that extraordinary things will happen.We don't know much else about the missions yet; but Houser is keen to stress one key aspect. "We've focused on variety," he explains, "I don't think players will say, 'I'm constantly being told what to do, and I go there, I do it, I leave and I do everything in exactly the same way!' I definitely don't think that will be a problem".And space is important, space is a big issue. Some have already questioned why GTA V needs to be so huge. But Houser bats the concerns right back. "We wanted to make a big place, as much as anything, to allow you to fly," he laughs. "A lot of the decisions, we're talking about them here on a philosophical level, but they're also practical decisions, too: we're making a game. You have to understand the medium. On an obvious level we wanted somewhere big so you can fly properly – we have a lot of missions that involve flying, in helicopters or whatever, it was logical. Also, Jet skis work better around LA than they would in New York."We're using the environment to let us have toys we couldn't have had otherwise. And equally, we're using the story and environment to introduce missions that can be more extreme. In some ways we wanted the game to have a larger-than-life Hollywood feel; the stories we heard in LA, we wanted to capture them in the game. If the place isn't informing what we're doing, we're not using it correctly."Los Angeles. Los Santos. After the bleak, chilly despair of GTA IV this an enormous tonal shift, recalling the sun-streaked abandon of GTA: Vice City, the eighties-obsessed PlayStation 2 masterpiece that some feel is the best title in the series. And although the follow-up to that title, GTA: San Andreas, explored a little of this place, GTA V already feels like it has plunged into the decadent heart of the city like no game before it.Driving around the intricately detailed streets, we spot tributes to landmarks like Muscle beach and the Hollywood sign, we see mime artists and weirdos patrolling the pavements, there's a guy dressed as Jesus – that guy is really out there in Santa Monica, posing for photos with tourists. There are dodgy fast food joints with names like The Lucky Plucker, there are juice bars and boutiques. The sense of place is incredible; a sort of skewed, woozy take on the real thing. Los Angeles. Los Santos. The two are inextricably linked, but it is LA that the game is really thinking about."Since 2008, we've been going out there for for a week or two at a time with different groups from the team," says Houser. "Our researchers did an incredible job of finding us some of the strangest people – retired cops, people with a knowledge of the LA underworld – and we'd hang out with them ... just to see what happened. Whatever skill we have is in taking all of that stuff and amalgamating it into something that feels cohesive. There can't be any particular science to that – the interpretation of the world is our skill, that's where the art is. There's enormous pleasure in wandering about in LA with people who've done crazy things".Perhaps only a video game could capture the essence of a contemporary city in this way. Houser shies away from such hyperbole, he knows GTA V must function as a game more than anything else, but the team working on it have wider ambitions, too. I ask him if GTA means anything. "I hope so!" he laughs, "otherwise it's pointless! Without being too annoying and avoiding the question, hopefully the games say lots of different things; but I think that for us, the correct response is to turn the question around and ask, what do they mean to you?"It's not for us to sit there and say, well, this is what it's about. We've got lots of themes we want to explore, be it about advertising, about dreams, immigration, about being an assassin and what that means – some of which will work, plenty of which will probably fail. But it's not for us sit there and say that. Our statement is the game".Baudrillard would love the version of America that Rockstar has constructed, a hyper-real theme park of violence, corruption and excitement. But you don't have to think about it. You don't have to think at all. GTA V might be about friendship or ambition or regret, but it also looks to be a game in which you can blast through the streets in a truck, boot filled with guns; a game where you can pilot a jet fighter over the Californian landscape; where you can bike down a mountain or jet ski into that fluorescent sunset.GTA has always been about possibilities. That is why it is so exciting to see the series return, amid the indie titles it has inspired, and the Triple A titles that have grown up in its shadow. Grand Theft Auto pushes at what game worlds are, it is inarguably ambitious. Yet sometimes it just wants to blow up helicopters above the streets of downtown Los Santos. And that, in the end, is absolutely fine.Update:This article was based on a press trip to New York, with travel costs and accommodation covered by Rockstar. I apologise for forgetting to notify readers of this when the article was originally uploaded.
A series of artworks donated to the London Games Festival by major developers is being auctioned off this month. The first batch will be made available online today.Over 100 pieces of video game concept art were collected by the festival and originally shown off during an exhibition at London's City Hall. There will now be four weekly auctions, ending on 3 December; the batch being offered today includes three signed images from Batman: Arkham City, two Fable drawings signed by Peter Molyneux and other works from games such as Tomb Raider, Dishonored and Moshi Monsters.All the money raised through the auctions will be donated toSpecialEffect, a charity that provides modified gaming equipment and a library of titles to players with disabilities.All the details on how to bid on these exclusive works are available at thededicated website. Perfect Christmas present material for the art-loving gamer in your life.
Oh dear, it's Monday. How was your weekend then? Any gaming? I played the hilarious new PSN game, When Vikings Attack.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe poor in America: In need of help &gt;&gt; The EconomistMs Hamilton worked as a loader at a factory in Sumter, a modest city of 40,000 in east-central South Carolina. In July 2008, however, after seven years on the factory floor, she mangled her hand between two heavy rollers. The accident was to leave her unable to work.She lost her house three years later, in April 2011. She, her 20-year-old son and her dog moved into her teal Chevy van, where they have been living ever since, collecting metal cans during the day and sleeping in a grocery-store car park at night.Step out of the filter bubble; read this article before and in preference to any other today.Apple saves its big guns for Samsung &gt;&gt; FT.comWhile some paint it as an aggressor, Apple's settlements with Nokia last year and now HTC show that it is prepared to strike licensing agreements - but only in select cases, says Carolina Milanesi, a mobile analyst at Gartner, a consultancy. "The [HTC] settlement to me shows that there are two distinct battles going on here: one against Android licensees on technology patents and one against Samsung on intellectual properties as a whole," she says...the settlement with HTC "might help Apple's brand when some people might be questioning their how litigious they are becoming", says Ms Milanesi.(Subscription required.)Global LCD TV shipments fall for the first time ever in Q1 2012 &gt;&gt; DisplaySearchWorldwide TV shipments fell almost 8% year-on-year in Q1'12, the steepest rate of decline since Q2'09. Total TV shipments for the quarter were 51m units, according to the latest release of the NPD DisplaySearch Advanced Quarterly Global TV Shipment and Forecast Report. The biggest contributor to this decline was a slowdown in shipments of LCD TVs, which fell year-on-year for the first time in the history of the category, declining just over 3%, to 43m units.As has been pointed out, this is why Apple making a TV sounds like nonsense. (Thanks @ClarkViper for the link.)With All Due Respect: the patent system's not broken &gt;&gt; Wired Opinion | Wired.comWhy would a company spend billions of dollars to build a microprocessor-manufacturing plant employing thousands of skilled workers in the US, if it could only protect its technology by obtaining patents in other countries? Why would a venture capital firm fund a social-networking service provider if the company could not obtain patents on its innovative software backbone, preventing others from easily copying it?Not mentioned, but maybe worth recalling: Google has an exclusive licence to the PageRank patent from Stanford University. (The exclusivity was meant to expire in 2011 but a call to Stanford shows it hasn't..) The writer is a patent attorney at IBM. Which means many people will dismiss what he's saying out of hand.Linux Foundation unveils a workaround for Win 8 Secure Boot | PCWorldNow, the very latest news is that the Linux Foundation and its Technical Advisory Board have spoken out with a new plan designed to enable Linux to continue operating on Secure Boot-enabled machines."I'm buying this Surface RT with an ARM chip and installing Linux because I can't get a low-cost PC with an ARM chip that runs Linux, apart from the Asus Transformer, Motorola Atrix, and Asus Padfone." (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Update on the effort to defeat Restricted Boot &gt;&gt; Free Software Foundation -- working together for free softwareThink twice before purchasing Microsoft's new ARM-based tablet, especially if you are hoping to replace the new Windows RT operating system, with a free software operating system such as GNU/Linux or Android. These new devices ship with Restricted Boot, which prevents you from installing free software on the device.If this new approach by Microsoft of handcuffing users to its operating system bothers you, then join us insigning the statement, stand up for your freedom to install free software.So far 48 organizations and over 37,000 people have signed the statement.That was 31 October; by 10 November it had reacted 39,684. However unless one of them is Steve Ballmer or Steve Sinofksy, it's unlikely to make the faintest bit of difference. (Thanks @sputnikkers for the link.)Windows 8, Surface slabs ALREADY need critical security patch &gt;&gt; The RegisterMicrosoft will release critical updates for Windows 8 and other software on November's Patch Tuesday. The upgrades will arrive within weeks of the Win 8 launch at the end of last month.All supported versions of the Windows operating system from XP SP3 up to and including Windows 8 and Windows Server 2012 will need patching to close three security holes that enable hackers to execute malicious code remotely on vulnerable systems. The fourth critical patch will address a vulnerability in Internet Explorer 9 on Windows 7, Vista and Server 2008.Unsurprising; RTM software has to stop being tweaked at some point, but security flaws keep turning up. Plus two patches for the Surface RT, which The Register - fond of calling tablets "fondleslabs" - plumps for calling a "fondletop", being a combination tablet and laptop.Windows RT already in trouble: OEM interest low after Surface launch &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh:The Surface RT has been greeted by mixed reviews and consumer response has been tepid. Even Steve Ballmer was forced toadmitthat&nbsp;there was "nothing interesting to report" on Surface sales. Based on this, Acer may very well end up cancelling or scaling back their Windows RT plans.Apart from Acer, Sony,&nbsp;HPand Toshiba have already scrapped plans for Windows RT based products.Digitimesalso reported that Asus, Dell, Samsung and Lenovo plan on shipping less than 50,000 units of Windows RT devices as other OEMs may have also probably been swayed byAsus's successwith the Android-basedNexus 7 tablet.The Ballmer comment is most telling.How the iPad mini could impact future PC sales &gt;&gt; TechPinionsTim Bajarin:But my iPad with keyboard is really what we call in the industry a hybrid, which has a touch based tablet tied to a detachable keyboard. Microsoft's Surface falls into this category as does HP's Envy X2 that they call a convertible. The nomenclature for this seems to be ever changing but we define a convertible as a tablet/keyboard combo that does not detach and a hybrid, a tablet with a detachable keyboard.The interest in the hybrids as we define it is extremely high, although the demand for Windows RT based hybrids like the Surface is somewhat muted since it does not have backward compatibility with existing Windows apps. Instead, the hybrids we are seeing great interest in, both with consumers and business users, are Windows 8 devices that use an x86 chip and has full backwards compatibility with existing Windows software like HP's Envy 2 Convertible. But if the scenario I suggest plays out, it will be these hybrids that drive "laptop" sales in the future, while demand for more traditional laptops will wane considerably.BlackBerry 10 kicks technical butt &gt;&gt; VentureBeatSo far, only two mobile browsers have cleared Ring 1: Dolphin, a relatively obscure browser, and now the BlackBerry 10 browser. All this is, of course, part of RIM's big plan to woo developers to BlackBerry 10, because more and better apps mean more and more satisfied users, at least theoretically."The browser team here at RIM has been working closely with the HTML5 experts at Facebook, who developed the Ringmark HTML5 test suite, to ensure the BlackBerry 10 browser would meet the standard," writes Matthew Staikos today on theRIM developer blog."All we need is a browser that can pass these tests, and we can clean up in the smartphone market."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
In a surprising outbreak of peace in the mobile phone world, Apple and the Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC have halted legal hostilities and signed a 10-year licensing agreement.Industry sources suggested that HTC may have agreed to pay Apple between $5 (£3.15) and $20 per handset that it produces with Google's Android operating system. HTC said that the deal, which enables the company to use Apple patents on its devices, would not have a material effect on its profit-and-loss account.HTC was the company that first prompted Steve Jobs to threaten to "go thermonuclear" against Android handsets in 2010. The companies had been suing each other for 32 months in Europe and the US, most notably at the International Trade Commission (ITC), which controls imports of goods into the US. Apple had succeeded last year in temporarily blocking US imports of HTC Android phones, choking its sales, and another ITC ruling in Apple's favour was about to be handed down in the coming weeks.The deal, announced in a joint statement on Sunday, follows thelegal battle between Apple and Samsung concerning patent infringements, which saw Apple secure $1bn in damages in August.Benedict Evans, smartphones analyst at Enders Analysis, suggested the HTC deal signalled the closing stages of the patent wars in the smartphone market,  adding that the per-device licensing payments may put a floor under the prices of Android smartphones in the west. The deal comes amid speculation of a profit warning at HTC, where revenues have plummeted since peaking in September 2011. Quarterly revenues for July to September 2012, at NT$70.2bn (£1.5bn), were 46% down on a year ago, and the company's revenues have returned to the levels seen in mid-2010 before its huge growth driven by sales of Android handsets. In the third quarter of 2011, HTC was the biggest seller of smartphones in the US. "HTC is pleased to have resolved its dispute with Apple, so HTC can focus on innovation instead of litigation," said Peter Chou, chief executive of HTC.Apple's chief executive, Tim Cook, said he was glad to have reached the settlement and that Apple "will continue to stay laser focused on product innovation".Carl Howe, vice-president of the Yankee Research group, commented on Twitter: "Cook's Apple is far less litigious than it was under [Steve] Jobs." Jobs in 2010 threatened to "destroy" Android after HTC introduced a handset which he thought used patented Apple methods for zooming into text.With Apple having been the aggressor, HTC is reckoned to have offered a per-device payment to use Apple's patents in Android handsets. That will be in addition to a similarper-device patent licensing deal HTC made with Microsoft in April 2010, reckoned to be for between US$5 and $10 for every Android handset it ships. Apple and HTC would not disclose details of any payments written into the peace deal.Microsoft has already signed 14 patent licensing deals with Android handset makers, and Apple was awarded $1bn in damages in August when a California jury decided Korea's Samsung had infringed some of its software and design patents."HTC wasn't making phones that looked like the iPhone so a licensing deal was always on the cards, unlike the case against Samsung," said Evans. "Most of the growth in Android sales is coming from cheap $75 to $100 handsets which are replacing featurephones. If you're paying $20 in licensing on those, you've got no margin." Mobile phone patent wars began in August 2007 when the handset maker Motorola banned a Chinese company, Chi Mei, from making a chip for Germany's Infineon. Those chips were being used by Apple in the iPhone. Motorola has since been demanding a separate licence from Apple. It is the only major lawsuit outstanding from Apple.
Monkeys? In balls? Which are super? What's not to like? A few things, as it happens.To be fair, Sega's latest entry in its surprisingly fruitful puzzle/mini-game series is a lot of fun. Dozens of challenging single-player maps see you navigating the chosen ensphered simian through a series of obstacles, grabbing as many bananas as possible on the way. Elsewhere, eight mini-games – with old favourites such as Monkey Bowling joined by newer additions such as Monkey Bingo – allow players to battle for multiplayer monkey dominance. There's even a capable level editor, to maintain interest with original creations long after everything has been mastered in the core game.The problems come from an inconsistency of control. The Vita's motion-sensing proves perfect in the puzzle modes, tilting the world with remarkable precision for ultimate monkey manipulation, yet the same finesse is conspicuous by its absence from some of the bonus games. Elsewhere, touchscreen input is mostly used for menu selections and little else, while traditional button controls fill in the gaps. It's mildly frustrating at best.However, the whole package does boast the same charming aesthetics and goofy visual humour the series has become known for, and the progressively testing solo game will be more than sufficient to keep purists happy.
Reborn in 2010 in an attempt to wrest control of the first-person-shooter genre from Activision, EA'sMedal of Honorseries is pitched as the authentic alternative toCall of Duty's Hollywood bombast. Yet, whileWarfighter's violence is informed by real-life US Tier One special forces operators, it does not translate into compelling gameplay.The mercifully short campaign tells a muddled, incoherent tale of global terrorism, complete with gratuitous flag-waving and overstated reverence for the military. DeveloperDanger Closerelies on narrow, linear battlefields to frame its action and it's hard to escape the feeling of claustrophobia, being ushered through camouflaged corridors from one scripted set-piece to the next while the only new idea – a door-breaching mini-game that rewards the player with unlocks – is both underdeveloped and overused. None of which is helped by a variety of AI and scripting bugs that conspire to sap all enjoyment from the campaign.Thankfully, multiplayer fares a little better. A new buddy system encourages teamwork and strategy, while classes, perks and unlocks offer the now obligatory sense of progression. But although the combat feels smoother online, poor visuals and bland map design sour the experience. When compared to the slick, refined content of its main competitors, on this evidence it seems unlikely theMedal of Honorseries will survive without a major rethink.
In gaming, Christmas is traditionally all about the big blockbusters: video games with high production values, created by huge development teams.XCOM: Enemy Unknownis the antithesis of this. Based on a strategy franchise that few people under 25 will have heard of, the game was developed by a small team at US studio Firaxis on a modest budget. And it still rises above many of its latest major-release rivals.Enemy Unknownputs players in command of an international group designed to oppose an alien menace intent on terrorising mankind. The aim is to lead a team of up to six soldiers through turn-based skirmishes that prevent alien abductions, clear landed spaceships and rescue civilians.As the soldiers complete missions they will level up and learn different skills. They can be customised in appearance and named after yourself, family members, friends, or even, let's say, characters fromDoctor Who. As a result youwillgrow attached to them. So much so that when ace sniper Amy Pond was ruthlessly cut down by the robotic Sectopod, there was much wailing and gnashing of teeth. She is now sadly nothing more than a name on the memorial wall.The game is regularly unforgiving like this and it is a strength, where sometimes even a victory can feel like a defeat. It harks back to the days of gaming when even "easy" mode posed a significant challenge. YetXCOMis never unfair. The loss of a beloved soldier will almost certainly be due to a poor strategic decision, so the title rarely feels frustrating.These turn-based battles are only one half of the game, however. The other concerns managing the XCOM base, where the task is to build labs and facilities, assign research for scientists, create new weapons down in engineering, develop ships to shoot down alien craft and much more. Meanwhile there's an intriguing touch added in having to please as many different nations as possible at the same time. For instance, fail to help Australia one too many times and they'll pull their funding from the XCOM project.This is a deep, engrossing and challenging experience, but it does have flaws. The game launched with a number of irritating bugs, and although many have been fixed via downloadable patches, a handful still remain. There is also evidence that it lacks the financial muscle of the other current big releases: many of the landscapes and areas look familiar to one another (who knew Russia had so many American diners?) and although there's plenty of depth toEnemy Unknown, fans of the original series may miss some of the complexities of the earlier titles.ButXCOMis a remarkable game and the development team's passion for the franchise shines through. It may not boast the big budgets and high production values ofHaloorAssassin's Creed, but in terms of pure enjoyment it stands toe-to-toe with them. Absolutely one of this year's great surprises.
Price from £9,995MPG up to 83Top speed 118mphPeugeot's numbering system means you always know where you are in its pecking order: 107, 208, 308, 508, 3008, 4007, 5008… The higher the number the bigger the car. But there are two inexplicable rule-breakers – the RCZ and the Partner; the first is a curvaceous two-seat sports car, the second a van with windows and back seats. Fine, but why not follow list protocol? As a self-confessed cutlery straightener who can't, ever, wear mismatched socks, I find these anomalies so intensely annoying that… steady, steady, breathe…Anyway, this week we are down at the bottom of the list in the new 208. It's only on the second-tier of thePeugeotpyramid but don't hold that against it, because it is not an exaggeration to say that much of the French manufacturer's future wellbeing depends on the 208's market performance. It's at the bottom but only in the way a&nbsp;foundation is.Ask anyone of a&nbsp;certain age (to be precise, ask anyone who had their eye on a&nbsp;sporty hatchback in 1983, so let's say anyone now aged 47 – my age!) about Peugeot's small 200-series models and they'll go misty eyed as they recall the red-trim detailing, smoked alloys and rally-inspired mud flaps of the 205, which sold by the million. The hot GTi version garnered rave reviews as effortlessly as Damien Hirst's art collects dead flies. The problem was that the 205's successors, the 206 and the 207, were, frankly, not up to snuff. Small, steady, dull… they failed to capture the car-buyer's imagination. (Though I did appreciate their respect for numbering conventions.) With mounting pressure from the ever-improving Korean and Japanese manufacturers, sales of Peugeot's 206 and 207 began to stall. Cue cavalry music – and the 208 riding to the rescue.Fortunately the bosses at Peugeot have picked themselves a likely winner. Since the marque celebrated its 200th anniversary last year with the RCZ (breathe) and the arrival of the technologically innovative 3008 and then 5008, the impression over at Pug HQ is that Peugeot means business.The 208 is certainly an appealing-looking car – the dreadful open-mouthed "fish face" grills of the past are gone. Look a little harder and you'll also start to notice all kinds of classy design flourishes – there's the elegant curve of the front lamps, the chrome breakout by the back windows. These cost money and add perceived value. Peugeot is clearly keen to drive away from any notion of being a builder of iffy motors.The car is marginally lighter than the outgoing 207 – these days new models are all on strict diets as this helps boost fuel efficiency and reduce emissions, but the advantages of a&nbsp;trim waistline are undone as there is so much new technology and so many safety features to be shoehorned in. So the cars continue to get bigger.Inside the feeling of Peugeot poshness continues: rubber, soft-touch plastics, damped switches. At the centre of it all is a large infotainment screen which controls everything from the satnav to your playlist. It means the console feels futuristic and uncluttered – dozens of buttons, switches and dials have taken redundancy. An oddity you may notice is the tiny steering wheel – it feels sporty and makes the steering brisk and immediate, but it also allows you to look over it at the dials rather than through it. Most cars have their instruments partially obscured by the steering wheel, so here you can actually see how fast you are going.There's a good selection of engines, ranging from a basic 1-litre up to the vigorous 1.6 diesel I&nbsp;drove. The 1.4e-HDi, however, might be the one to go for as it produces just an 87g whiff of CO2per km and knocks out a&nbsp;wallet-tranquillising 83.1mpg.Fun, attractive, French, affordable and good to drive… It may have taken 25 years to reinvent the 205, but at least they got it right in the end.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one placeDesign your own PeugeotEver fancied designing your own car? In the run-up to theBBC Children in NeedTelethon on Friday 16 November, Peugeot UK has created a website;pudseysdreamwheels.co.ukwhere it is possible for anyone to create a car design of their choice. In doing so it is possible to capture the image on mugs or T-shirts and it should help to raise money for this great cause. Have a go!Driving Miss BabyWe've all done it. The baby won't sleep so driven half crazy with desperation you strap your little princess (or prince) into their car seat and start the engine. Incredibly, the crying stops – but the problem is you are too frightened to stop the car, so you drive and drive and drive…Now, some research byMothercareshows that the average parent drives 1,322 miles a year getting their newborns to sleep. Mothercare, the UK's leading parenting and baby specialist, polled more than 1,000 parents to understand their driving habits. Over half admit they use their cars as a "drop-off-to-sleep" vehicle at least once a week – with the average journey starting at 9pm and lasting nearly half an hour. New dads get behind the wheel the most, while parents from London drive the furthest. To help parents in their quest for a good night's sleep Mothercare has recruited their youngest ever product tester – 17-month-old Zara Kazim from London – who has spent the past two weeks putting the retailer's range of car seats to the test against an Average Baby Sleep (ABS) rating. Topping the list was the Mothercare Malmo Car Seat, which sent Zara to sleep in just 10.37 minutes. The Sport Car Seat came second registering an ABS of 15.25 minutes followed by the Madrid Highback Booster (18.41 minutes). You can watch the full Average Baby Sleep (ABS) experiment athttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KlInxnPvuvgHomes on wheelsAfter the summer we have just had, I suspect the great British staycation could soon become extinct. But if you are made of stern stuff, or merely want to upgrade from a tent, you may be interested in buying this month'sWhich Motorhome. The UK's number one magazine for motorhome testing has just conducted its biggest ever test of Volkswagen campers and announced that theBilboCelex LWB is the overall winner.Which Motorhome's highly experienced team tested 12 campers, all based on the current shape Volkswagen T5, featuring the classic side kitchen layout with an elevating roof. The campers tested included Volkswagen's own California, while the remainder were from all the UK's leading manufacturers: the Bilbo's Komba SE 35, Bilbo's Celex LWB, Bebb Sport Lifestyle, Rolling Homes, Jerba Cromarty, Danbury Surf, VWKC Komet, VWKC Karisma, Concept Multi-Car Trio Style, Leisuredrive Crusader and Hillside Birchover.Showing all the experience gained in Bilbo's 35 years of not just building but actually using Volkswagen campervans, the Celex is light and spacious, and above all practical in use. From the drawers in the galley where others use cupboards to Bilbo's own easy-to-use bed system and elevating roof, the Celex LWB was simply the best thought through camper tested, as well as one of the best built.Which Motorhomeis available from all good newsagents on the second Thursday of every month. Alternatively, you can subscribe by on 01778 392 015 orwhich-motorhome.co.uk.Shock of the newEver wondered what we'll be driving in tomorrow's world? Last weekend's Future Car Challenge gave us an insight. The event's main sponsor, British Gas, has produced this video of the weekend which includes footage of the event as well as interviews with celebrity drivers. It's well worth a look.
Outlaw racerNeed for Speedis in many ways a series based on a very American love of cars – centred on noise, velocity and an almost sexual attraction to the growling muscle under the hood. A spot of irony here then, in that production of the titles has recently been moved to speed-hungry Guildford, and the offices of Criterion Games.But it was an appropriate move. Criterion is famous for makingBurnout, the beautifully destructive series that culminated in the open-world ambition ofBurnout Paradise, so it makes sense thatMost Wantedfeels as much like a follow-up to that game as it does a traditionalNeed for Speedtitle. More so, in fact – Criterion's latest might have the licensed manufacturers and street-racing cool that have always beenNeed for Speed's hallmarks, but underneath the hood it's pureBurnout.It's there in the explorable city of jumps and unexpected platforms, of smashable gates and billboards. It's there in the glorious, physics-defying back-end drifts and side-swiping takedowns (Criterion still has a cinematographer's eye for sleek cars, and even more so for their slow-motion disintegration). And above all else, it's there in the always-connected multiplayer, which turns the city into a playground for leaping, crashing toy-car larks, and every speed camera and jump into a high-score table. Fast and furiously compelling.
Some years ago I went to a lecture given by Professor David MacKay, who in addition to being a distinguished physicist (he's professor of natural philosophy at Cambridge) is also thechief scientific officerof the Department of Energy and Climate Change. He was talking about his book,Sustainable Energy Without the Hot Air,in which he subjects the case for wind power to some searching criticism. In the Q&amp;A after the lecture a member of the audience asked him why he was so hostile to wind power. "I'm not hostile to wind power," he replied. "I'm just pro-arithmetic."It was a terrific riposte and it made the audience laugh.  But actually it captured in a nutshell what's wrong with most of our public discourse and almost all of our journalism: it's innumerate. One of the best arguments for having kids study physics is not that it prepares them for careers hunting Higgs bosons but that it inculcates in them an instinct for quantitative analysis. At a symposium that MacKay organised many years ago I watched a physicist examine the global demand for energy implied by the UN's predictions for population growth – and then go on to analyse the proposition that nuclear energy could close the energy gap without increasing carbon dioxide emissions.  With a set of easily comprehensible, back-of-envelope calculations, he showed that the gap could indeed be bridged – by commissioning a new nuclear station every two weeks from now until 2070. End of argument.Note that we're not talking fancy mathematics here: no quadratic or nonlinear differential equations were required. Just plain, simple arithmetic – together with a distinctive mindset which says that the way to examine an issue is to take particular policy propositions, find some data that would enable one to assess their implications, costs and benefits, and then do some calculations.Which brings us to the Obama election campaign. In 2008, it was obvious that his people were significantly more internet-savvy than the McCain-Palin crowd. (Not that that would have been too difficult.) Obama harnessed the internet to crowdsource fundraising, for example, and used social media to get the vote out. And he used YouTube to bypass the TV networks and get his message directly to voters – as withA More Perfect Union, his Philadelphia speech tackling the problems raised for him by the inflammatory views of his pastor,Jeremiah Wright. A More Perfect Union is a long (37-minute), serious speech which would have been reduced to a set of soundbites by the TV networks. By using YouTube, Obama ensured that millions of US voters heard his unexpurgated version.But none of this was rocket science.  The interesting question this time was what the Obama crowd would do next. Now we know, thanks to afascinating piece of reporting by Michael SchererinTime, published just after the election result was clear. Basically, it comes down to numbers. The campaign was run byJim Messina,the White House deputy chief of staff. When Messina took on the campaign job, he said: "We are going to measure every single thing." It turns out that he meant it.  He assembled a huge data analytics department, and installed as "chief scientist" an expert in crunching large data sets for supermarkets.  Messina's "quants" were installed in a windowless room, forbidden to talk to anyone and told to do their stuff.The 2008 Obama team had gathered a huge amount of data on voters during the campaign, but it was held in a set of separate data silos. The first thing the new team did was to combine the silos into a single enormous database. How they coped with the security issues raised by this strategy isn't discussed by Scherer, and should be keeping someone awake at night, but it meant that the Obama campaign had an enormous data set which could be mined for (a) small donations (which totalled over $1bn in the end) and (b) insights about voter preferences and behaviour which could be used to try various kinds of experiment. They could ask a question of the data like: what kind of celebrity supporter had the biggest drawing power for professional women aged between 40 and 49 in California? Answer: George Clooney.  Who might have comparable gravitational pull on the same demographic group on the east coast? Answer: Sarah Jessica Parker. And so on.Obama's re-election is a compelling demonstration of what can be done when you apply quantitative analysis to large data sets. James Carville's famous phrase – "The economy, stupid" – has been superseded. Now it's the data, stupid.
EducationFor years teachers have been battling against the use of mobile phones in class. But that is changing as schools start to embrace the sophisticated technology many of their pupils carry in their pockets.At its most simple, teachers allow students to use the internet for research. But imaginative lessons take it a step further. One teacher describes a history lesson that required students to do mock archaeology around the classroom to find hidden quick-response barcodes. Once found, the students scanned them with their smartphones and video clips about the subject appeared on their screens. And it is not just secondary schools. Increasingly, primary schools are using iPads and other tablet computers, which are quick to set up and young children take to because they are so intuitive.But the uptake has been painfully slow. Valerie Thompson is head of the e-learning foundation that helps schools to provide children with computers. "Schools are the last institutions in the UK to come to the technology table," she says. "What technology allows teachers to do is give children an individual learning experience; not give all children the same lesson at the same speed in the same place."Teachers, she says, will have an entirely different job in this new world. "You don't need a teacher who knows everything when you can go onto the internet. The revolution is not the technology, it is the changing role of the teacher to make the most of the technology."There are already some 200,000 educational apps. One of publisher Pearson's products allows the student to do their homework on their mobile device and participate in class, the teacher to analyse the student's performance, and the parents to see what they are doing.These types of companies have been pushing mobile education for years, but it is only with the rise of tablet computers that schools have caught on.  Apple chief executive Tim Cook recently said: "The adoption rate of iPad in education is something I'd never seen from any technology product . Usually, education tends to be a fairly conservative institution in terms of buying and we're not seeing that at all on the iPad." Last week, the Scottish government announced plans to spend around £30m on tablets for use in schools, colleges and universities.Juan Lopez-Valcarcel, chief digital officer at Pearson International, says: "We're reaching the tipping point in terms of adoption and interest of mobile technology in the classroom. Soon we won't be talking about mobile education as a separate thing; all education will be on mobile devices."JMBooksThe internet began changing the music and newspaper industries over a decade ago, but its impact on book publishing was not felt until the arrival of the tablet computer.The digital revolution has been painful for record labels and press barons, as the number of people willing to pay for what they produce dwindles by the day. Book publishers, by contrast, have enjoyed a smoother transition, largely thanks to Amazon.The online retailer's success may have sounded the death knell for "physical" bookstores, and squeezed publishers' margins, but its popularisation of the e-reader has created a new market where digital books can be sold, rather than pirated.The Kindle appeared in the UK in 2009, the first iPad in April 2010. Thanks to these two devices, instant gratification is now possible for the book buyer and the result has been more reading. Studies say that e-reader owners buy more books, and this summer Amazon announced that digital formats had outsold paper for the first time in the UK.Publishers are racing to adapt. HarperCollins employs a data analyst, recruited from American Express, to monitor online sales around the clock and tweak prices accordingly. Its venerable Collins World Atlas is now an app, displaying its data on clickable globes. Nosy Crow, the children's publisher founded two years ago by former Macmillan MD Kate Wilson, is doing a brisk trade in apps commissioned from the likes of Gruffalo illustrator Axel Scheffler, creating original content, rather than "existing books squashed onto phones".Amazon's success is not without problems for publishers. While it has modernised their business, its market power, particularly in the UK, is almost completely unchallenged. The concern is that it will force damaging price reductions on publishers, in order to pull in customers with heavily discounted bestsellers.Publishing houses responded by forming an alliance with Apple, which allowed them to set the prices and the iPad maker to take a 30% cut on every title sold. Bestsellers could then be withheld from Amazon if it did not play ball on pricing.Unsurprisingly, Amazon founder Jeff Bezos fought hard to have the agency model outlawed, and he has now won his battle both in the US and Europe, where most of the big publishers have offered to settle. Penguin was not among them, but a merger is being arranged with Random House, to create the world's largest publisher – and a stronger base from which to counter the might of Amazon.JGHealthIn Africa, mobile phones are not only changing lives, but saving them. The prevalence of mobiles in Africa – there are more mobiles than toilets and 10&nbsp;times as many mobiles as landlines – has put them at the frontline of the battle against HIV/Aids, malaria and deaths during childbirth.As the price of basic handsets drops below $10, the United Nations is using them to bring healthcare to distant villages, rather than spending millions building clinics. "You get a lot more healthcare for your money [from mobiles]," Kathy Calvin, chief executive of the UN Foundation, has said. "For decades delivering healthcare in rural settings has been inefficient and slow. If you run out of drugs or condoms, or there is an outbreak of disease, the only way to communicate the problem is to write it down on a bit of paper. It was crying out for a modern solution."Calvin believes mobiles have the potential to have as big an impact on global heath as Sir Alexander Fleming's discovery of penicillin in 1928.In Tanzania, texts are being used to help eradicate obstetric fistula, a debilitating condition that causes millions of stillbirths across Africa and can make social outcasts of the mothers who suffer from it. The condition can be corrected with a simple £250 operation but many sufferers either don't know they can be cured or cannot afford to travel to the hospital."We have a nice big hospital, full of good doctors, but no patients," said Tom Vanneste, deputy director of a local NGO, Comprehensive Community Based Rehabilitation in Tanzania, which provides treatment for obstetric fistula, thanks to millions of pounds of funding from the EU and Tanzanian government.The problem has been noticed by Vodacom, the country's biggest mobile phone network, which has appointed a team of 60 "ambassadors", to travel around the country diagnosing women with the condition. Within an hour of an ambassador finding a patient, a date is set for surgery and money for transport is texted to the ambassador, who takes the patient to the bus stop.Mobiles are changing healthcare in the UK, too. O2 has launched a special service to allow relatives of elderly or vulnerable people to keep tabs on their loved ones. The monitoring service, called Help at Hand and dubbed "tag-a-granny", is designed to alert carers or doctors automatically if a relative suffers a fall or wanders away from home without warning.Analysts at Juniper Research estimate global revenues from remote patient monitoring will rise to almost $1.9bn by 2014.RNFarmingFarmers in Africa don't have state-of-the-art tractors with computer-guided ploughing patterns, satnavs and in-cab entertainment systems like their western rivals. But they do have access to the latest weather reports, planting advice, disease diagnostics and market prices thanks to even the most basic mobile phones.In Tanzania, local mobile operator Vodacom last month began a new scheme which allows farmers to negotiate prices for their crops with market traders without having to take their goods all the way to the market.The service is run using Vodacom's M-Pesa mobile money service, which has helped to transform financial transactions on the continent. In a land where the vast majority of people do not have a bank account, money can be transferred quickly and cheaply, directly between mobile phones. In Kenya, the amount of money transferred by mobile phone each year equates to 11% of GDP.In Uganda, 500 community knowledge workers have been provided with smartphones to download and disseminate the latest weather and agricultural information to almost a million farmers. Most of the information, provided by government departments such the agriculture and meteorology departments, is displayed in text form, but Grameen Foundation, which runs the project, is beginning to send images and videos to help those with limited reading skills.Even the most basic of phones can be turned into a vital tool for remote farmers, including a service that can help predict when cows are likely to give birth. iCow collects and stores milking and breeding records, sends farmers best-practice advice and the location of the nearest vets. The service calls itself "the world's first mobile phone cow calendar".A report by Vodafone – which owns a majority stake in Vodacom – Accenture and Oxfam predicts that enhanced mobile technologies could help increase agricultural income in 26 countries by $138bn by 2020. It also predicts that using mobiles to remotely control water pumps could help towards a 6% saving in fresh water supply. The report envisages the creation of a "farmer helpline" that would provide critical information to agricultural workers and help them to deal with problems, such as pests and the use of chemicals, that they face on the fields."Mobile telephony could have significant potential to help the poorest farmers towards greater food and income security," says Barbara Stocking, chief executive of Oxfam. "In Cambodia, the Philippines and Indonesia, we are testing market information accessibility through SMS servicing and in Bangladesh we are working to provide storm warnings to fishing communities via mobiles."RNTechnologyThe third coming of the web is upon us, and it is mobile. The advent of the smartphone is changing not just pre-digital companies but also those that rose to prominence via the internet.Web 2.0 firms such as Google and Facebook are having to adapt to the small screen. Failing to make the transition to 3.0 could cost them their futures. Fears that Facebook would not be able to keep up with its young customers – 600 million of its 1 billion users are mobile – were a big reason its share price halved after its flotation. The picture has improved this autumn. Founder Mark Zuckerberg told investors that in its most recent quarter, 14% of Facebook's ad revenues – some $150m (£94m) – were from mobile.These are not print ads scaled down. Facebook is succeeding because it is reinventing the format. Among its new ideas are injecting promotions for apps into a customer's news feed, describing the product and linking to the relevant page of the app store.Mobile advertising is still in the research lab, finding new ways of using location information, maps, calendar alerts and "click to call" buttons. Restaurant reviews, hotel bookings and store sales are all fruitful themes for advertising to those on the move.Google has become particularly adept at this, and says that it expects to earn $8bn from mobile this year, up from $2.5bn a year ago. The number includes sales from its app store, but the "vast majority" is advertising, according to Google's finance chief.So why did the search giant's share price slump 20% before being suspended on the day of its last financial results? Investors were not just unnerved by a clerical error which pushed the earnings release out early; they took fright at a rapid decline in the all-important "cost per click" of Google's ads.The price paid decreased 15% from the same period last year, even as the number of paid clicks on ads climbed 33%. Mobile advertising is worth less than desktop advertising, which in turn is worth much less than television and print advertising. Making money from mobile devices is no mean feat, even for digital natives.JGRetailersIt's no longer enough for clothing retailers to fill their stores with the latest fashions, as the popularity of smartphones feeds a new mobile shopping culture. At the relaunch of New Look's store in London's West End on Friday, model Kelly Brook, who designs a range for the retailer, was clutching an iPad to demonstrate the use of Blippar – an app that links smartphone users to extra video and product content on the retailer's website – throughout the store.Tech-savvy shoppers are embracing these "augmented reality" apps, which turn phones into barcode scanners that glean extra information and gather online prices. Phone companies on the lookout for trends in the millions of texts, calls and internet searches every hour have also identified hotspots around changing rooms as shoppers photograph themselves trying on new outfits, then beam the images to friends for an instant verdict on Facebook.The growing might of internet – and now mobile – shopping has spawned retail industry buzzwords such as "multichannel" and even "omnichannel", which attempt to describe how customers increasingly use stores and websites in tandem. Retailers find that the more channels their customers use, the more they spend. M&amp;S says people who shop on its website as well in its stores spend four times as much; throw smartphones into the mix and they spend eight times as much.Jon Copestake, chief retail analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit, predicts that by 2022 mobile commerce will be mainstream as consumers make impulse purchases directly on their smartphones. Within a decade, at least a third of UK retail sales will be rung up on phones, computers and social media websites, he says, compared with around 10% today. Copestake also predicts that bargain-hunting websites such as Groupon and mysupermarket will have merged and expanded into sophisticated sites tailoring and personalising the best offers for consumers.With the internet increasingly part of modern life, chains such as Tesco and M&amp;S are starting to offer free instore Wi-Fi as a matter of course. Tesco boss Philip Clarke argues the tough economic climate has made digital technology even more important: "People are shopping online to take control of their budgets, seek the best bargains, find out what offers best value," he told a recent conference. "By Christmas, we reckon one in five online purchases will be via smartphones."ZW
In the shadow of Halo 4 and next week's Call Of Duty, publishers are erring on the side of caution, leaving a slightly anaemic release schedule that includesMass Effect Trilogy(Xbox, PS3, PC), a box set of all three of Commander Shepard's outings and downloadable content;Saints Row The Third: The Full Package(Xbox, PS3, PC), last year's wilfully nutty Saints Row episode along with all its post-release add-ons; andTropico 4: Gold Edition(Xbox, PC), yet another accessorised 2011 game.Marvel Avengers: Battle For Earth(Xbox) is at least new if not very good, adding head-shakingly poor Kinect interaction to repetitive superhero battles. Also available to download isThe Greatest Video Game Music 2, which has the London Philharmonic performing old favourites like the themes from Chrono Trigger, LittleBigPlanet and Skyrim among others.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewCourses are littered with collectables, shortcuts and lovingly crafted scenery, and Stephen Fry's voiceover is as sublime as ever but LittleBigPlanet Karting isn't entirely successful. Its comical weapons make a little too much difference, especially in single-player mode, which lends proceedings an unwelcomely random dimension. That aside, there's an incredible amount to do, from mini-games to platforming levels to an astonishingly comprehensive level editor, squeezing a vast quantity of entertainment from its sack-people and weaponised go-karts.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewAssassin's Creed III: Liberation takes place in New Orleans, joining its console-based big brother in revolution-era America and featuring the series' first female protagonist Aveline de Grandpré. As well as the usual climbing and stabbing skills, Aveline also dons disguises: as a slave she blends in with labourers; as an assassin she's better in combat; and as a lady she can charm or bribe guards. Disappointingly, the game usually railroads you into choosing one outfit, leaving you simply to get on and slit a few throats. There's a bit of the bayou to explore, though not a lot to do, and things suffer when the action gets intense. Still, Liberation looks beautiful on the Vita.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewWaking up four years after the end of Halo 3, the Master Chief and his pint-sized AI companion, Cortana immediately get down to business escaping exploding space ships and mowing down alien invaders, the Covenant.New developer 343 Industries has made changes: the visuals are brighter and crisper, and vehicle handling spritelier. This is Halo with a spring in its step (and impressive co-op mode Spartan Ops), while new enemies the Prometheans come with their own firearms, giving this outing the greatest variety of the series so far.
Warning! Spoiler&nbsp;alert! If you don't want to know what this car has on the roof, read no further. Don't look at the picture, either. I said don't…Right then. I've never really liked Vauxhalls; there's always been a joyless middle-of-the-roadness about them. A Vauxhall is not an honest working-class motor, like a Ford, with an honest working-class blue oval badge and an honest working-class driver behind the wheel. I've always felt there's something pretentious and aspirational about them. Brand prejudice, that's all it is, but that silly griffin doesn't help.Every so often, though, along comes one it's impossible not to like. Like this one.Look at it, you would, wouldn't you? It's the regular GTC three-door Astra, already a nice-looking car, but now on steroids – with bigger alloy wheels, extra muscly bumps and bulges, triangular air intakes. Whoar. Oh, and the aforementioned roof spoiler which doesn't spoil anything, it makes it better.It's not refined or subtle; it's loud and brash and vulgar, especially in red. A proper hoon car. (No, not as in Geoff, as in the antipodean term for people who indulge in loutish, antisocial behaviour, often in cars.)Fire this baby up and it comes to life with a lovely roar, a 276bhp roar, more power than its rival hot hatches from Renault, Ford and VW. Brrrrmm.I'm sorry, but this is a car that does bring out the hoon in a chap. I'd rather be a hoon, though, than a&nbsp;pretentious ponce following a&nbsp;silver griffin down the middle of the road. Actually, the VXR can be quite refined if you want it to be; you can pootle home down the MOR to your mock-Tudor semi in Surbiton or wherever. But when you want it to, it will go like shit off a shovel, too.Ride a little soft? Throttle response not sharp enough? No&nbsp;problem: there are buttons to put it into sport mode or, better still, VXR mode. Obviously I've got it in the latter the whole time, because I'm a hoon. And because in VXR mode the instruments glow red. I&nbsp;look in the rear-view mirror – no, not to see what's in the past, who cares about that? To see whether, in VXR mode, my eyes glow red, too. And I'm happy to report they do.Obviously it's ridiculous, he says, suddenly remembering this is the Guardian, not Jizz Wizz Motors magazine for boys. You don't need 276bph, it's not clean enough, or green enough, or cheap enough. (Twenty-seven grand! For&nbsp;a&nbsp;hatchback, and that doesn't even include the spoiler which is extra.) But ridiculousness doesn't get much more fun.Vauxhall Astra VXRPriceFrom £26,995Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62mph in 5.9 secondsCombined consumption34.9mpgCO2 emissions189g/kmEco rating3/10Cool rating7/10
Google has said that said that several of its online services have been blocked in China –just after the country's once-in-a-decade meetingto transfer power to a new generation of leaders got underway.Traffic to its services in China dropped sharply on Friday eveningaccording to an online "Transparency Report"website operated by Google, which measures traffic to its sites around the world.Google's search engine and its Gmail web email were among the services affected in China, where the internet company has had a fractious relationship with the authorities."We've checked and there's nothing wrong on our end," said a spokeswoman for Google.Google's YouTube video service has been inaccessible in China since 2009, while access to other services in China are blocked sporadically.In 2010 Google relocated its Chinese search engine to Hong Kong after a spat with authorities over censorship and cyber-attacks that Google said originated in China.Google said in May of this year that it was changing its search service in China so that it will warn users when they are using terms likely to trigger interference from the authorities and suggest ways around the censorship."Over the past couple years, we've had a lot of feedback that Google search from mainland China can be inconsistent and unreliable. It depends on the search query and browser, but users are regularly getting error messages like 'this webpage is not available' or 'the connection was reset'. And when that happens, people typically cannot use Google again for a minute or more," Google said in ablogpost.More than 2,000 Communist Party delegates from across China have convened in Beijing to participate in the 18th party congress, which began on Thursday morning.
Shares in struggling online voucher firm Groupon have plummeted more than 27% to a new low after it reported worse-than-expected results on Thursday.Wall Street investors dumped the stock after the company, which was once the world's fastest growing online firm, said sales had slowed of its daily discount voucher offers for everything from yoga classes to plastic surgery.Having traded at $20 a share when first floated less than a year ago, the shares were languishing at $2.85, down 27% on the day.Sales in the three months to the end of September were up 32% on the same period last year to $568m (£355m). But revenues were flat compared with the previous three months. Losses were $3m compared with $54.2m last year.The bulk of the revenues came from the Groupon Goods retail arm that sells items such as sunglasses, toys, and big-screen televisions. It generated $145m in revenues but Groupon spent $127m on inventory, shipping and marketing.It is the latest in a long line of disappointments from the company, with investors seemingly showing their dissatisfaction with the business.In April the company issued a profit warning after admitting it should have added an extra $22m loss into its accounts due to the high level of disgruntled customers demanding refunds.It is also facing an investigation by the US Securities and Exchange Commission into its accounting and its controversial decision to restate its accounts shortly after listing. In the UK an Office of Fair Trading investigation found Groupon guilty of widespread breaches of consumer protection laws, relating to issues including the pricing, advertising and unfair terms attached to its daily deals.
VirnetX, a Nevada-based company which has just won a$368m patent infringement lawsuit against Appleover the latter's FaceTime video calling system, has filed a fresh claim against the company.The new claim adds iPhone 5, iPad mini, fourth-generation iPad and new Macintosh computers which weren't part of the original lawsuit.The award works out to roughly $1 per infringing device sold. Apple's lawyer had insisted that the company did not infringe the patents, or that Virtnetx's technology, if it were used, was only "a small part of very large, complex products," the news service Bloombergreported.VirnetX, based in Zephyr Cove, provides internet security software and technology - though its principal income source is through licensing its patents, some of which are essential to 4G/LTE, and others are not.In the case won earlier this week it had demanded $708m in damages, but the jury lowered the award.It added the new Apple products to the lawsuit because the first case - which it won in the eastern district of Texas - went in its favour. It claims that the new products, which also use FaceTime, infringe the same four patents on which it prevailed earlier this week. Apple and VirtnetX are separately battling a case before the International Trade Commission (ITC), where VirnetX is asserting the same patents.Apple is the second big scalp that the company has won for the patents it holds: in May 2010 itwon an agreement before a patent infringement case against Microsoftwent to trial. Microsoft made a one-off $200m payment relating to VirnetX's patented secure domain system.The key patents relate to a method for using a domain name service to set up a virtual private network (VPN) which is then used to link up the users of a service.Apple introduced FaceTime with the iPhone 4 in September 2010. Initially it worked only over Wi-Fi connections, though earlier this year Apple said its newer version works on 3G networks too. The service requires aclient-side security certificatefrom an Apple server before a connection is made - which is where the infringement is claimed to occur.VirnetX is also suing Cisco, Avaya and Siemens, which offer video calling systems that it says infringe the same patents which it asserted against Apple. A trial is scheduled for March 2013 in which all three will be defendants."We are extremely pleased with the outcome of our suit with Apple," said Kendall Larsen, VirnetX CEO and President in a statement. "This victory further establishes the importance of our patent portfolio."Bloomberg reports that the technology came out of work done by a company called SAIC for the US Central Intelligence Agency to develop secure communications.VirnetX claims patents covering secure communications for real-time communication, including instant message, VoIP, smartphones, e-readers and videoconferencing. It says that it has more than 20 patents in the US and 26 internationally, with another 100 applied for.
Have you experienced a catastrophic loss of self-esteem in the past week? Does it have anything to do with video games? If it does, the chances are you have purchased Halo 4 and, after several frustrating hours, have discovered that you're not very good at the online multiplayer mode. Unfortunately, as the latest Master Chief adventure is the biggest Xbox game of the year, this effectively renders you unfit to be seen on Xbox Live till – ooh – mid-2013?But don't worry. Here are nine tips that should allow you not only to stay alive in an online map for longer than 20 seconds, but to start winning. Your fight back begins here...Get the FPS basics rightDon't run around in the open without good reason. Don't be the first to cross the skyline. Don't return directly to the scene of your death. Don't insta-throw a grenade at the first glimpse of a hostile silhouette. Don't rush in for a melee kill when the other guy's five metres away with a full clip. And don't automatically pick the showiest streak rewards, like the SAW machine-gun or Rail Gun – an Overshield or Speed Boost may keep you alive for longer.Remember – it's still HaloEncountering Halo 4's new subsystems for the first time, there's a moment of raw terror. Where did the streaks come from? What's all this Battlefield-esque tactical chatter cluttering up my HUD? Fear not, traveller. 343's borrowings from rival shooters are designed to complement Bungie's old combat loops, not overrule them, so make you sure you nail the basics: taming the single shot rifles (the new Promethean Light Rifle isn't as alien as it looks); timing your grenade throws so they strip away shields in one fell swoop; and keeping your aim steady while jumping sideways like a scalded cat.Turn bases into traps on DominionThe Dominion mode is a variation on the familiarConquestgametype, but there are a few important differences. You don't need to babysit a base terminal during the capturing process, for one, so don't wait around. Deploy an Autosentry by the terminal and plant a Sticky Shot bolt near one of the doors, then head outside and find a good vantage point. On some maps, like Exile, it's possible to park a vehicle inside certain bases for a crude defensive advantage. Those Warthog turrets can be... inconvenient.Catch people collecting Ordnance DropsYou might not want what's inside that Ordnance Drop, but somebody will. Try to intercept them en-route. The Drop Recon support upgrade gives you advance warning of incoming pods, though you'll need to max out the appropriate armour specialisation to get hold of it.Only use Promethean Vision when you know who you're looking forHalo 4's wall-piercing vision mode is the most useful new Armour Ability by far, but it has weaknesses. The "sonar wave" takes a few seconds to reach full diameter, so don't bother using it to spot from afar. Instead, find the enemy on your motion sensor, close in and unleash the ability in short bursts to manoeuvre round them. Up close, you should be able to see which way they're facing and what they're armed with. One more thing: Promethean Vision makes it harder to distinguish holograms from the Real McCoy. If you start seeing double, back up.Hardlight Shields are the new Armour Lock……with the crucial qualifiers that they won't immobilise you, and they won't protect you against harm from the sides or rear. Hardlight Shields can be deployed to soak up fire while comrades flank the player dealing the damage, though bear in mind that they wear out pretty quick. You'll find them more immediately useful as a means of "parrying" a grenade ambush. Be sure to equip a shotgun, so you can paste your attacker when he or she attempts to "polish you off".Beware the majesty of HavenIt's one of the most beautiful Halo maps ever made, but don't let that pearlescent sheen blind you to the fact that it's an absolute meat-grinder, with one central killzone stacked atop another. Heading for the upper level is a good rule of thumb - you can descend quickly (or alternatively, toss down a grenade) by way of gaps in the radial routes. When fighting around the ramps at the end of each "spoke" of the wheel, try jumping the barrier to catch ascending players from the rear. If you're holding the centre by yourself, keep circling round so you don't have your back to any one access point.Pick the right upgrade for the right jobMobility (infinite sprint) should be your Tactical standby, particularly during objective-based matches, but consider taking AA Efficiency to speed up energy regain if you're making sustained use of a Jetpack or Active Camo. Firepower isn't as hardcore as it sounds – it's relatively easy to find an additional primary weapon on most Halo maps. As for Support, Dexterity (faster weapon-switching and reloading) should do nicely if you cut your teeth on Call of Duty, but Explosives can be nasty on interior maps – it fattens grenade blast radius and gives you extra protection against them.Don't forget the Boltshot's secondaryThe Promethean pistol fills more or less the same niche as the Magnun: hard-hitting and accurate at short to medium range. If somebody's got you cornered, however, you might want to experiment with holding the trigger. The ensuing energy blast won't travel far, but it's pretty hard to avoid.
