It doesn't take a genius to see the irony in recruitment software companyJobster chopping 15 positions. But even though times might be hard (the site is now down to a staff of 25 from a high of 150) the decision must be galling. After all, in a buyer's market - when hundreds of employmentally-challenged people will be going for every position - there's surely a lot of value in systems that help you hire better staff.
For its many devotees, the Second Life virtual world is a place where the everyday constraints of normal life drop away and vivid fantasies can be played out.But fact and fiction have collided for a British couple who are divorcing after the wife discovered her husband's online alter-ego - a goatee-bearded, medallion-wearing hombre called Dave Barmy - with another woman, also virtual.Amy Taylor, who in Second Life is a club DJ called Laura Skye, said yesterday that as far as she was concerned her husband, David Pollard, was having a real relationship with the human controlling her rival. "It may have started online but it existed entirely in the real world and it hurts just as much," she said. "His was the ultimate betrayal. He had been lying to me."Second Life is the brainchild of an American company, Linden Lab. Players create a virtual alter ego, or avatar, which can move around the imagined world, meet people, socialise, and buy land and property and set up businesses with the game's virtual currency.Role-playing games have won plaudits for connecting people, academics and businesses, but the British charity Relate last night said that its counsellors were coming across an increasing number of people whose real-life relationships were falling apart because of what was happening in their parallel, unreal, worlds.Second Life players have spotted the trend and some have set themselves up as virtual private eyes who check on the fidelity of suspected cyber cheats, or act as virtual relationship counsellors.Amy Taylor (she has already changed her name by deed poll), 28, and David Pollard, 40, met in an internet chatroom. She moved from her home in London to be with him in Newquay, Cornwall, and at first they had fun together, in real life and cyberspace.In Second Life Taylor liked to wear tight-fitting cowboy outfits and she lived by the motto: "Never give your heart easily." Pollard set himself up in a winter chalet with a Cobra helicopter gunship parked next to it. Their avatars became partners in Second Life, until Taylor woke from an afternoon nap and found Pollard at the computer watching his Dave Barmy character having sex with a prostitute.Horrified, Taylor ended the online relationship between Skye and Barmy but stayed with Pollard in real life.It was then that fact and fiction really began to collide. Taylor decided to test Dave Barmy, and thus Pollard's loyalty, by turning to a virtual female private eye called Markie Macdonald.A "honeytrap" was set up in which an alluring avatar chatted Barmy up. He passed the test with flying colours, talking about Laura Skye all night.Barmy and Skye got back together in cyberspace, marrying in a ceremony held in a pretty, tropical grove.In real life at their flat in Cornwall, Taylor wept as she watched the service and in 2005, in real life again, the couple married in the less glamorous surroundings of St Austell register office.But Taylor sensed something was wrong and eventually she found Barmy chatting affectionately in Second Life to a woman who was not Skye.She found it even more disturbing than his earlier tryst as there seemed genuine affection in it. In real life, she filed for divorce.Taylor said she realised the saga sounded "bizarre" but added: "People find love in lots of different ways."She said she still played Second Life, and there was a chance her alter ego would bump into her former partner's. It would be awkward, but they would survive.Pollard admitted he was having an online relationship with an American woman. "We weren't even having cyber sex or anything like that, we were just chatting and hanging out together. It was nothing really major. I don't think I was really doing anything wrong."
In part, British consumers are to blame for the thousands of job losses announced this week in the communications industry. Our clamour for ever lower telephony, mobile and TV bills has created a price war among some of the country's biggest brands.According to Ofcom's 2008 Communications Market report, the average monthly household spend on communications - which includes TV, mobile and broadband - has dropped from &pound;97.94 in 2004 to &pound;93.63 in 2007. That may not seem like much of a decline, but in the same period the number of homes with broadband has grown from 5 million to more than 14 million while mobile phone penetration has gone from 99.5% of the population to 122.6% - as many people have more than one SIM card - while the number of minutes we spend chatting on a mobile has ballooned from 64bn in 2004 to 99bn last year.The British consumer is getting a lot more services for less money and that has led the likes of Vodafone, Virgin Media and BT to rein in costs.Fixed-line telephony pricing has been hardest hit, which is why BT has been so desperate to move into new areas such as TV and corporate IT. This has paid off, but calling still accounts for more than 10% of its business. The price of BT's all-you-can-call phone package - which used to be called BT Together Option 3 and is now BT Anytime - has dropped from &pound;17, plus line rental, a month in 2003 to &pound;4.95 today. And the decline is accelerating - the package cost &pound;14.50 plus line rental in June 2006 - as people switch the bulk of their calls to their mobile phone. Calls in the evening and at weekends on BT are now free, something that would have been unheard of a decade ago. Even two years ago that call plan was &pound;6 plus line rental.Shareholders obviously want to see a return from BT, which is why it is wielding the axe, but the consumer is by no means an innocent bystander in these jobs cuts.
There is a lot to love aboutMirror's Edge, the first person platform/action game that is released tomorrow. For a start it looks bloody marvellous. The city setting is a bleached minimalist dream, shot through with flashes of colour.  Only some occasionally muddy textures and disappointing character models let the side down. But this game is more about the environment than people.  Cast as Faith, a parkour-style futuristic runner, your aim is to leap, crawl, and speed across rooftops.  But unlike traditional third-person or side-on platformers Mirror's Edge uses the first person viewpoint, more commonly used in shooter games. And most of the time it works fantastically well, especially as you crash through doors with your character's arm out in front.  The first person view gives a real sense of speed and sense of place as you sprint through corridors, somersault over electric fences and leap between skyscrapers.The controls are initially fiddly. The 360 version – which I played – uses the bumper button to jump. And while it worked fine most of the time I never felt totally happy with it, especially in a game like this which involves precise jumps. And Mirror's Edge is frustrating at times. You will definitely spend a lot of time plummeting to your death/swearing at the screen.  The loading and restarts are usually quick but the game is a challenge in the later levels.Reflexes are not the only requirement. Finding the right path through the rooftops and interiors is not always obvious, even when using the guidance button.  Blundering through is not always an option. Exploring off the beaten track is though, but the rewards are fairly limited.The combat is disappointing  and detracts from the purity of the game. Yes, you can evade attackers – in fact the game encourages it – but when the Mirrors Edge tries to be a first person shooter it falls flat.  The potentially interesting story – runners undermining a totalitarian city state – is similarly unfulfilling although the cut scenes are nicely done.The game itself is relatively short about 8-10 hours. This is fine for me – I've always preferred quality over quantity – but the time trials aside there isn't anything to do once you've finished the main game.But despite these issues the core of the game works fantastically well. The vertigo inducement of Crackdown and Half Life 2's sense of urban space are two obvious influences but Mirror's Edge is refreshingly different. It may lack a bit of variety, but get your flow right - leaping across two skyscrapers, ducking under a pipe before barging open a door and disarming the goon waiting inside – and Mirror's Edge becomes the exhilarating ride you hoped it would be.
Last night saw a rare moment of peace between the Horde and Alliance — arch enemy factions of the massively multiplayer online role playing game World of Warcraft — as gamers came together in their thousands to be one of the first to own its latest expansion pack.The midnight launch of Wrath of the Lich King saw virtual enemies unite to show their love and passion for the game, with attendees reflecting the diversity of the game's 11 million players.As you may expect, teenage boys queued in their droves, but equally mixed between them were couples, "guild" members en mass and entire families. Willing to brave the cold, they queued for hours and even days to be among the first wave of adventurers to explore the new continent of Northrend.Although not graphically en par with the console gaming fad of realism, the world of Azeroth is still awe-inspiring in its own right, but the true focus of WoW is gameplay.Developer Blizzard has stayed faithful to Warcraft's heart of exploration and questing. The expansion uses the same accessible interface, offering a game that is easy to play, but difficult to master, with a vast array of new features enhancing the gameplay experience.The biggest addition to Azeroth is the new character class the Death Knight, but alongside this, the new level cap of 80 lays down the challenge for the existing gamer.With new quests, dungeons and high-level raids further expanding the lore behind the game, players have months of new content to devour. Although many players were still regularly enjoying the raids, player v player combat and entire "endgame" that the previous expansion Burning Crusade offered, it's a great feeling to have new storylines to follow, dungeons to explore and of course, have your experience bar return.Through character levelling, the hardcore will have further facets to sample, but for the more light-hearted adventurer, new abilities such as haircuts definitely bring more fun into character customisation.Wrath of the Lich King is an expansion of WoW in every sense, and your first steps into Northrend leave you spoilt for choice, but never overwhelmed.It'll be a long time before gamers get to face-up to the Lich King himself, but if the first few hours are anything to go by, the journey will be a blast…• Keri Allan's full review of Wrath of the Lich King will appear tomorrow
Millions of British people are addicted to something they call "the boob tube". Every night they slump for hours in front of a flickering box, having their brains rotted by a continuous diet of mindless pap. They could be doing something interesting with their lives, but they need a continuous stream of stuff, and it's available right round the clock. They can't go out, they don't have time for proper meals, they can't even take a bathroom break when they need one. If they miss a dose due to holidays or illness, they start trying to "borrow tapes" or even going online to hunt down that missing episode of EastEnders, Coronation Street, Strictly Come Dancing or whatever.People who suffer fromTV addictionlose their grip on real life, and start to inhabit a fantasy world of fake characters with whom they have no real interaction: TV displaces and becomes a substitute for real life. It can also lead to a combination of overeating (stimulated by advertising) and a lack of exercise that result in unfitness for survival and, sooner or later, death.But what about the "pushers" who manufacture and distribute TV's poisonously addictive content? They're under intense pressure to keep up the supply, and it's no surprise if they sometimes "cut it" by rehashing old stories. Computer games addiction is an old faithful. Everyone has a hazy memory of people who have been addicted to Space Invaders, Pac-Man or Tetris, and it became an even better story when it reached EverQuest -- aka EverCrack -- and other online games, such as World of Warcraft. Indeed, the BBC has just given us another dose, as mentioned in a blog post,'Addicted' to Warcraft?, which confesses:Since our story on World of Warcraft "addiction" was broadcast, I've been contacted by a number of angry gamers - including a BBC colleague - who charge me with painting a tired, cliched picture of their pastime and say "addiction" isn't a word that can be applied to obsessive gamers.Still, anyone who has reached the level required by the newWrath of the Lich Kingexpansion pack (it's not for beginners) has clearly wasted a significant amount of time on it. Time that they could have spent watching The 100 Most Exciting Mistakes In Movie Subtitling (Swahili edition) etc.To be fair, some people are allowed to neglect their education, compromise on their work, and even skip television while devoting six or more hours a day to some repetitive and essentially meaningless task. Indeed, if they become exceptionally good at it, the BBC (and the Guardian) will hold them up as a Great Example to the Rest of Us. This works for runners, cyclists, rowers, swimmers, sailors etc, and even chess players. Getting to a high level in World of Warcraft doesn't count, obviously. Especially not if you do it of your own choice, in your own time, and at your own expense.Ultimately there is no cure for TV addiction, except to remove the TV altogether. Your life might seem empty for a while, but World of Warcraft is just one of the many alternatives, and it provides more excitement, much greater intellectual stimulation, and greater social interaction. Also, it probably doesn't take as long. If you can replace your 4-5 hours of TV per day with 2 hours of WoW, you might be able to find the time to eat properly,get some exercise, read a book etc.Help make the world a better place: next time you see a TV set, turn it off.  ;-)
Just a week afterasking employees to take an unpaid holiday, Dell has confirmed chief technology officerKevin Kettler is stepping down, as reported by CNET. Michael Dell's folks are trotting out the line that it's to "spend more time with his family", but that's unlikely to stem questions about the company's struggles.
For its many devotees, the Second Life virtual world is a place where the everyday constraints of normal life drop away and vivid fantasies can be played out.But fact and fiction have collided in heartbreaking fashion for a British couple who are divorcing after the wife discovered her real-life husband's online alter-ego, a goatee-bearded, medallion-wearing hombre called Dave Barmy, with another - virtual - woman.Amy Taylor, who in Second Life is club DJ Laura Skye, said today that as far as she was concerned her husband, David Pollard, was having a real relationship with the human controlling her love rival."It may have started on-line but it existed entirely in the real world and it hurts just as much," she said. "His was the ultimate betrayal. He had been lying to me."The brainchild of American company Linden Lab, Second Life players can create a virtual alter ego, an avatar. This avatar can move around the imagined world, meet people, socialise, buy land and property with the game's virtual currency and set up businesses.Role-playing games have won plaudits for connecting people, academics and businesses, but the British charity Relate said tonight that its counsellors were coming across an increasing number of people whose real-life relationships were falling apart because of what was happening in their parallel, unreal worlds.Second Life players have spotted the trend and some have set themselves up as virtual private eyes who check on the fidelity of suspected cyber cheats - or as virtual relationship counsellors.Appropriately enough, Amy Taylor (she has already changed her name by deed poll), 28, and David Pollard, 40, met in an internet chatroom. She moved from her home in London to be with him in Newquay, north Cornwall, and at first they had fun together in real life and cyberspace.In Second Life she liked to wear tight-fitting cowboy outfits and lived by the motto: "Never give your heart easily." He set himself up in a winter chalet with a Cobra helicopter gunship parked next to it.Their avatars became partners in Second Life - until Taylor woke from an afternoon nap and found Pollard at the computer watching his Dave Barmy character having sex with a prostitute.Horrified, Taylor ended the online relationship between Skye and Barmy but stayed with Pollard in real life.It was then that fact and fiction really began to collide. Taylor decided to test Dave Barmy - and thus Pollard's loyalty - by turning to a virtual female private eye called Markie Macdonald.A "honeytrap" was set up in which an alluring avatar chatted Barmy up. He passed the test with flying colours, talking about Laura Skye all night.Barmy and Skye got back together in cyberspace, marrying in a ceremony held in a pretty tropical grove. In real life at their flat in Cornwall, Taylor wept as she watched the service and in 2005 - real life again - the couple married in the less glamorous surroundings of St Austell register office.But Taylor sensed something was wrong and eventually found Dave Barmy chatting affectionately to a woman who was not Laura Skye. She found it even more disturbing than his earlier tryst as there seemed genuine affection in it and - in real life - she filed for divorce.Taylor said she realised the saga sounded "bizarre" but added: "People find love in lots of different ways."She said she still played Second Life - and there was a chance that her alter ego would bump into her former partner's. It would be awkward but they would survive.Pollard admitted he was having an on-line relationship with an American woman. "We weren't even having cyber sex or anything like that we were just chatting and hanging out together. It was nothing really major. I don't think I was really doing anything wrong."
You might think - or its denizens might think - that Twitter, being the leading-bleeding-edge place full of digerati that it is, would also have people who wouldn't just hand over their password on the promise of being told that they're the most exulted person in the world.Oh well, think again.An experiment yesterday byRyo Chijiiwa, an ex-Yahoo staffer, discovered that lots of Twitter users will hand over their passwords for nothing more than the promise of being told their "rank" on Twitter.Set up yesterday,Twitterank.com(note: may not load) invited people to give their username and - gah! -passwordin return for which it would tell you your "ranking" in the social media corner.Pointless and stupid, of course. Though Chijiwa says, in aguest post on ZDnet, that it"is not some grand scheme to steal thousands of Twitter accounts, but a casual experiment gone horribly horribly right."Well, right if you wanted to worry people. But carry on:I was browsing through a day's worth of tweets from my friends, when something or another got me thinking about @replies. As many of you are aware, I'm sure, @replies allow users to essentially "send" tweets to other users, which effectively turns Twitter into one giant semi-public conversation. In my head, these @replies started looking like edges in a hidden graph. Hidden, because while you can see @replies directed at you, you can't necessarily see @replies that other people are receiving. Yet, it seemed like this information would reveal quite a bit about the user. Who's talking to them? How often?So he wanted to analyse it. Which meant.. passwords.In order to analyze your @replies, I need to make a web service request to Twitter, which requires your user name and password. As I've mentioned in my blog, there are alternative authentication mechanisms out there, but for whatever reason, Twitter hasn't adopted them yet. So I went ahead and hacked together a simple app, which asked for a user name and password. Those of you who used the site early on might've seen a big red box with a rather lengthy warning about how "you should be afraid." That text, which someone later found commented out and then misinterpreted, was there to prompt users to think twice before entering their passwords.It went through the roof: from 8 users to 100+ to 1500 to 2400 to /offline/. Which goes to show how people love something that will scratch their social back and examine their fur for mites. Even electronically.You can - logically, yet ironically enough - find him on Twitter.The upshot? Just because this wasn't a phishing expedition doesn't mean that the next one won't be. Unix experts say that after typing "rm -rf" (which deletes everything) they sit first, fold their hands, and think *before* pressing return, asking themselves "Is that right? Do I want to do that?" When you see something saying "Enter password" online, you should ask yourself the same question. Do I want to do that? Is it safe?Because it doesn't matter if youcreate the most uncrackable password in the universeif you just give it away to find out where you rank, socially. The answer in that case would be: among the gullible. Of whom there are, regrettably, too many.
Microsoft has been steadily increasing the integration of its many online services -- Hotmail, Messenger, Spaces etc -- for several years, but Windows Live Wave 3 takes this to a new level. The result will be more of an integrated suite (seetoday's Ask Jack), tied together via a home page/dashboard that is very likely to remind you of Facebook.Unlike previous versions of Live, Wave 3 takes integration beyond Microsoft by including web services from partners such as Flickr, LinkedIn, Pandora, Photobucket, StumbleUpon, TripIt, Twitter, and Yelp. As with Facebook, your Wave 3 profile page (aka Windows Live Homepage) will let you post information about yourself (About me, Favorite Things etc). The news feed will pick up your tweets, blog posts, photo uploads to Flickr etc and share them with your friends.Of course, the feed also updates you on what your friends are doing. You can also form or join groups of friends and share a calendar, consolidating events into your personal calendar.Some big improvements come with the newLive Photosservice, which lets you tag faces (like Facebook), and run slideshows. With Windows Live FrameIt, you can also send photos and dynamic content to digital picture frames, so you can have the slide shows, weather reports, traffic news etc in your living room or on the picture frame at your bedside.Wave 3 services include Windows Live Messenger, Mail and Calendar, Toolbar, Writer, Movie Maker, Photo Gallery, SkyDrive, Outlook Connector, Family Safety parental controls and more. All these have an online component and a desktop component, so you get the best of both worlds (as with Google's Picasa). You can synchronise data across multiple PCs and mobile phones by usingLive Mesh.For more information, Microsoft product manager Brian Hall has blogged about the service, and his post --Windows Live – Keeping your life in sync-- includes three videos. There's also apress release.It's early days, obviously. New services will be rolled out, and availability extended to more than 50 countries, over the next year. Ultimately, as I said in Ask Jack, the whole shooting match will come together with Internet Explorer 8 and Windows 7, and that's when we'll actually find out how well it works.For Microsoft, it's a way of encouraging the hundreds of millions of people who use Messenger and Hotmail to use other Microsoft services -- especially Live Search, because you can expect to see a Live Search box on every page. It also decouples applications from Windows 7 and moves them into the cloud. For example, in the old days you had Outlook Express 6. With Wave 3, you'll get Windows Live Mail (as you do in Vista) but you'll get a frequently updated version from Windows Live, and by the way, it stores your web mail/Hotmail on your hard drive as well. Unlike Google, it lets you use either a web client or a desktop client, or both. (Well, if you use Gmail, you can do the same thing with Thunderbird or whatever, but it's not part of Google's platform.)Of course, with Windows Live, you may not get the best possible solution for each function, but that's true of all integrated systems. You're also putting all your eggs in one basket: if yourLive ID(developed from what was Passport) is hacked or revoked, you lose access to everything, not just to your email or photos or whatever. Again, this is true of your Google ID, too.I expect that people like me will therefore continue to use multiple services -- the ones we like best -- and cope with the multiple log-on names, passwords and web sites this entails. But I expect there will also be plenty of people who like the supermarket approach of one-stop shopping for online services. And Microsoft's ability to hook its online services into the dominant Windows operating system viaWindows Live Essentialsshould mean most people are aware of the option, even if there's no obligation to use it.Incidentally, when I wrote about Microsoft rolling out Windows Live Wave 3 in today's Ask Jack, I had no idea Microsoft was about to make a public announcement. It has been secretly beta testing the system with the US press, but Microsoft UK never mentioned it to me. Since UK users can easily read US reports, this puts the rest of us at a bit of a disadvantage….
While Wii Fit was an amusing physical romp, with a few pretentions to toning your body, it was never going to replace your daily/weekly/annual trips to the gym. But Electronic Arts is about to take the physical activity genre to the next level.Announced today EA Sports Active is a 'customizable and personalized fitness product' endorsed by fitness experts, including Bob Greene (apparently Oprah's personal trainer). It's a more serious challenge, providing a structured workout that targets different parts of the body, as well as a 30-day fitness roadmap so you can accurately measure your progress. Before blowing it all on a Mars bar and a tall latte.From the press release (because I don't have the energy to re-write this stuff):EA SPORTS Active features a wide variety of interactive activities combined into a circuit that target both the upper and lower body as well as cardio, and supports two players to allow family or friends to get fit together. EA SPORTS Active provides a new level of motivation with on-screen, real-time feedback on your workout such as calories burned, while also allowing you to adjust intensity levels. EA SPORTS Active will include two specially-designed leg straps that hold the Wii's Nunchuk controller to track lower body movements, as well as a resistance band to support a number of upper body strength training exercises.EA SPORTS Active features a "30 Day Challenge," a fitness road map for players to reach their fitness goals with the guidance of a virtual trainer. The Challenge provides a new, 20-minute workout every time a player exercises, including clear instruction, feedback on technique and positive encouragement throughout the workout. Each circuit will feel different and increase in intensity as fitness levels improve to help you work up a sweat and work toward your fitness goals. Users can also create their own custom workouts that vary in activity, duration and intensity, and the Wii Balance Board will add functionality to many exercises.EA Active is out in the spring and promises to be just the beginning of EA's onslaught on the lucrative 'oh my god, I'm enormous' market. It's something other big players are looking in to. During its game summit in Rome last month, Nokia mentioned that one of the markets that mobile entertainment wasn't reaching was the fitness fanatic. The company mentioned plans for mobile titles that set up fitness challenges for users, allowing them to keep track of their performance statistics.When someone manages to graft a decent first-person shooter into a fitness gaming dynamic I might be interested: Gears of War + Balance Board = lots of cracking locust skulls with a well-placed foot jab, or strafing round corners by actually leaning. Can't see me losing too many calories, but at least I won't be sitting down.Any other suggestions for fitness games that us sedentary cynics would actually really like to play?
Having extracted most of the fun from school dinners and alienated half of Rotherham, Jamie now turns his attentions to the DS, with predictably mixed results. Part interactive cookbook, part cooking game, there are plenty of good ideas on show, but none move beyond a promising start. The cooking part features around 100 recipes, well sorted according to ingredients or preparation time, and there's even a built-in timer to tell you when it's ready. But the tutorials are bland and the game itself nothing more than a short-lived gimmick. With Nintendo's own cooking game in the pipeline, budding DS chefs might be advised to wait a bit.
The latest version of the stupendously popular plastic axe-wielding party game plunges down the Rock Band route, adding drums and vocals to guitar and bass, which ramps up the fun factor even further. World Tour has a few advantages over Rock Band. First, it works with any Guitar Hero guitars you may already own, although it comes with a new guitar featuring a touch-sensitive fretboard halfway down the neck (ideal for fiddly solos). The drum kit is classier than the Rock Band equivalent, and the track listing is stunning, featuring the likes of Nirvana, Michael Jackson, the Beastie Boys, Jimi Hendrix and the Sex Pistols. But the game's unique feature is a virtual recording studio, which is surprisingly powerful and lets you lay down rhythm, lead and bass guitar, drums and vocal tracks, then edit them extensively (there are tutorials, but a more than a passing acquaintance with chords comes in handy). Simply the best ever version of the best ever post-pub game, Guitar Hero World Tour is the game of any frustrated wannabe rocker's dreams.
They queued in their thousands from midnight in London's Oxford Street, the Champs Elysees in Paris and shopping centres around the world -computer game fanaticswaiting to get their hands on the latest version of the World of Warcraft.The World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King, an online role-playing game that allows people to control characters and interact with other players in a fantasy world not unlike the Lord of the Rings, will capitalise on the success of a franchise that already has 11 million followers.The previous extension, The Burning Crusade, sold 2.4m copies the first day of release, and the game's makers, Blizzard Entertainment, will be keeping their fingers crossed that fans will be undeterred by the current economic crisis. The new expansion pack costs £24.99 but players need a copy of the original game, another expansion pack and a monthly subscription costing £8.99.Set in the inhospitable continent of Northrend, the new game allows players to fight new enemies and find extra powers for their characters who line up with or against the evil Lich King Arthas Menethil and his undead army. The game features a new race of super-heroes, the Deathknights.First released in late 2004 in the US and in 2005 in Europe, World of Warcraft is now one of the world's most popular computer games. It has attracted adherents because of the game's strong storyline, its creators say.Lee Sparks, the associate producer at Blizzard, told the Guardian: "The story is very important to Lich King. We're picking off where we left off at the end of the Warcraft 3 expansion. With Burning Crusade, we had a lot of story but a lot of it was in endgame so it wasn't very visible to a large proportion of the customer base. With Lich King we've made it so that the player is immersed in the story from the start. This draws people into the game even more."As gamers flocked to the shops for Lich King, the game's creators have had to face the issue of game addiction. John Lagrave, a senior producer at Blizzard, told AFP: "We're concerned with indulgence and overuse."Lagrave said Blizzard had installed parental control devices and  added rest bonuses that rewarded gamers for not playing.
More than 2,500 people queued outside HMV in Oxford Street, central London last night to get their hands on the latest instalment of the World of Warcraft series. "Wrath of the Lich King" is the newest "expansion pack" for the online role-playing game.Shoppers at Oxford Street also had the chance to meet some of the team who created the Lord of the Rings-stlye game - probably the most successful MMORPG (massively multiplayer online role-playing game).Similar events were held in other cities includingLos Angeles, Mexico City and Seoul.Mike Morhaime, chief executive of Blizzard Entertainment, which makes WoW, said: "We've been looking forward to these launch events all year."WoW has more than 11 million players around the world paying a monthly subscription of £8.99.The new game - which costs £24.99, as long as you already have the original game - allows players to fight new enemies and find extra powers for their characters. It is set in the continent of Northrend and pitches players against the evil Lich King Arthas Menethil and his undead army.World of Warcraft has grown so large that it has been the subject of court decisions - and even taxation - in various countries where it is played. AUS court ruled last monththat it was illegal to sell software to cheat in the game, while in China the government has reversed an earlier position banning people from profiting on it, and insteadinstituted a 20% tax on "virtual currency" profits, according to the Financial Times (paid registration).
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Obesity? Never heard of itAnd here we have two men successfully using two Wii Fit boards and two Lego Mindstorms robots to play football - their movements control the robots. Do you think they'll celebrate with a kickabout in the park? No, me neither.Or if you're rich, hire a litterThis fizmo, from Honda, is a sort of exoskeleton that takes some weight off your legs. It looks bizarre, but is clearly intended for the ageing or infirm. Odd that it's made by a car company, though.In five years, I'll be Tom CruiseAndy Wilson at Microsoft Research shows off his gesture-based "multi-touch" system for his desktop.Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us in the comments!
Please advise us whether to turn the computer off or leave it on standby. I am told that repeated starts are bad for the hard drive.David SharrattIt is up to you. To keep systems running for as long as possible, we used to leave them on all the time. This avoided stress (from the electronics heating and cooling) and reduced hard drive crashes. However, modern equipment no longer suffers from the same amount of thermal stress and hard drive heads are designed to "park" safely. So while it might still be true that leaving a PC on will make it last longer, most people replace their PCs long before parts fail.You save most energy by turning everything off. However, you have to reboot the PC each time. Turning the monitor off and hibernating the PC is a good compromise. It uses almost no energy -- typically 2.5W or less -- and your PC should restart in less than 30 seconds. You can save far more energy on household heating and lighting than you can by foregoing hibernation.
I have received a Windows Security Alert pop-up message, which says the Windows Firewall has blocked some harmful software: Trojan-Keylogger.WIN32.Fung. There are three buttons marked Keep Blocking, Unblock, and Enable Protection. The last one leads to a site offering to sell me Personal Defender 2009 software. A scan with Norton 360, newly updated, detects no such harmful software.Russell GrahamIt's a sales pitch for Personal Defender 2009, which is malware that pretends to be anti-spyware. Don't install it, obviously. However, it's hard to tell if you have a problem because we don't know where the pop-up came from. Use Windows Task Manager and Windows Explorer to search for processes or files called voxexcrg.exe, opazohin.exe, mupd1_2_1165664.exe and mupd1_2_1711951.exe. Also, search the registry to see if there is an entry for Personal Defender 2009. These are all signs of a Fung infection. If you disconnect and reboot in Safe Mode, you should be able to remove these files manually. You should also scan your PC withSuperAntiSpyware, which has recently added Personal Defender 2009 removal, and perhapsMalwarebytes. Having Norton doesn't guarantee you haven't got Fung.
I installed Windows Live Messenger Beta and I hate it - mostly because although it displays my personal emoticons on my chat partner's screen, it refuses to show them to me! However, when I tried to remove it using Add/Remove Programs, it runs its installer, which gives me the option of adding other things, but no option to uninstall it.Ben EvansMicrosoft is now rolling out Windows Live Wave 3, and if you use Hotmail, you've just been upgraded with no way back. I suspect all the other Wave 3 services will go the same way, includingWindows Live Messenger, Mail and Calendar, Writer, Movie Maker, Photo Gallery, Outlook Connector, Family Safety parental controls and more. These are designed to look lovely and offer a much better user experience to start with, rather than deliver loads of functionality to start with. They will probably have a common installer, and the whole shooting match is designed to come together with Internet Explorer 8 and Windows 7. However, since this is an early beta, I wouldn't rush to try any of them -- especially not with Windows XP. It is possible to uninstall these programs, but it doesn't look like fun. See the instructions from theMessenger Geek, Jonathan Kay.Update: For more on Wave 3, see my post on the Technology blog:Microsoft starts to roll out Live Wave 3; reinvents Facebook
I tried your solution for reading a Microsoft Office 2007 docx file. I changed the file name to filename.docx.zip and unzipped it. When I double-clicked document.xml to open it in Internet Explorer, it displayed it in raw XML format, not in text. What do I need to do?MandywrXML is a text format, so you can read the text, though I agree the tags and formatting can make this difficult. Newer and better alternatives are to useZamzar.comto convert the docx file into something you want, or to use NativeWinds'Docx2Rtf. This free program does a great job of converting docx files into Rich Text Format (rtf), and it also converts .wps (Microsoft Works) and .odt (OpenOffice) files.Of course, if you have Microsoft Office 2000, XP or 2003, you can download the freeMicrosoft Office Compatibility Pack. This enables old versions of Office to read and write the new formats.
What's really smartComputers themselves are not predicting a Singularity that will transform their powers (Will machines outsmart man?, November 6). I take this as evidence that they are already more intelligent than humans.Allan Jones,Yardley GobionOutsmarting woman may take a lot longer - and I'd advocate giving up on the project of outsmarting cats.Tom Ward,NorwichThe Singularity - the moment when machines become smarter than humans - is closer than we thought. But hey, if we can't beat 'em, maybe we canjoin 'em.tencer.netThe key to developing a planetary-scale networked intelligence (which is one possible outcome of Pachube) resides in understanding that conversations (which is how intelligent entities interact) are founded on searching for, constructing and agreeing on points of coherence. Without that capability it is unlikely that humans will regard it as "intelligent".community.pachube.comFree at last, free at lastThat's quite a creative list (Free our data, November 6). We would like to congratulate the winners on their success and the UK government for having the vision to free its data for the common good.blog.programmableweb.comPricey spamThank you very much for your article regarding the FSCS's [Financial Services Compensation Scheme] emails being sent to spam folders (When it comes to insecure email, my agitation is real, November 6). That is what happened to me as well, so your article was invaluable!Renae Satterley,BeckenhamUnfinished chapterI'm disappointed that Google didn't litigate the fair-use claim to the end (Read me first, November 6). Google had a strong case; almost nobody else could bear the enormous legal costs of fighting the AAP and AG; the proposed settlement weakens the claim for any future litigant, if only by creating a new commercial opportunity for publishers to balance against fair use; and leaving the claim unresolved is harmful to digitisation projects and search engines.earlham.eduA win for open sourceThe fact that Obama's website was built entirely on the Lamp (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Perl/PHP) stack of free and open source software also aided his win. If he had had to pay for proprietary software it would have reduced his funding for campaigning.Charlie Bradley,Open Software SolutionsWhen in RomeI can only agree that the Berlusconi government does not help us to overcome the digital divide and facilitate access to the network (This is social networking, Italian style, November 6). But British colleagues should remember that we do not like the stereotype of "only slow food and mandolins". We are among the biggest users of mobile phones in the world, we are known for electronic gadgets and we are also among the biggest users of pirated software.blog.libero.itThe conclusions to which the Guardian comes, however, are dramatic: those who want to keep pace with the times have to leave Italy. Which choice do you think you'll make?vistidalontano.blogosfere.itEven though I enjoy surfing the web, it just can't compare to having a cigarette and chatting over a pizza.fulvialeopardi.it• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk• Read all this week'sletters in full
Your typical Silicon Valley startup is run by a rarely washed teenager with borderline Asperger's Syndrome, who's never heard of profit but wants to sell for billions, right? That makesBlurbvery atypical. Eileen Gittins, its chief executive, is female, for a start; and stylish.She's also been through the whole web 1.0 boom and bust, where she first ran Personify, an e-commerce marketing and analytics company that grew to 120 people but wasn't profitable. She was then was on the board of Verb, which did contextual search. Gittins is evidence of the saying in American business: you don't get really smart until you've gone bust twice.With Blurb, she's doing something smart: disintermediating a section of publishing (specifically, though she doesn't use the phrase, "coffee-table" - high-quality photographic - books) and making a physical product on which the company is certain to make a profit. It's a publishing company with nobody from mainstream publishing: "We're from Kodak, Apple, Google, Yahoo," Gittins says.The idea for Blurb came in her time after Verb, when Gittins, a former Kodak executive, returned to her love of photography: she compiled a photographic essay about people in and around Silicon Valley. In 2003, she wanted to produce 40 copies as gifts. The quotes for publishing it were horrendous; not only that, but there was the huge delay in getting the printing scheduled. Which got her thinking. What if you created a company that would handle the printing using a print-on-demand model? You'd generate the book on your computer with some software, upload a file with all the relevant data, and it would be passed to the printing company, which could do a run of one, or 10, or 10,000. Later that year, Apple launched iPhoto, its photo organisation program - which also included a "design a photo book, get it printed by Kodak" element. Validated, Gittins saw a potential business.Copyrights and wrongs"I only had three questions about it," says Gittins. "One, could we make money on the printing? Two, was it just a niche of one - myself - who wanted this? And three, would I go to jail over copyright?"The first two questions were easy. The third worried her: what if someone used a photo in a book that wasn't actually theirs to print? But lawyers assured her that as long as she followed "best practice" (such as having an ombudsman to rule in such cases, and witholding the file from further printing), the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) limited the damages to the "actual loss" (of reprint fees) to the copyright owner; no punitive damages, which is what terrifies any startup.That done, she embarked on a tour of printing companies to find what file format they would need and how much they would charge for printing. "There's a lot of manual labour in traditional printing," she says. "But if you could create a standard file each and every time, then you could automate the pre-press process."From that came a business model. All that was needed then was the software. Gittins and her team saw that they couldn't go for the usual software model, where the Windows version comes first and the Macintosh version much later (if ever). Blurb's customers, she saw, would be heavily on the Apple side, drawn from professional photographers or designers, who tend to use Macs. So the software - which took a year to write, including its e-commerce engine - is in cross-platform Java. Early expectations have been borne out: "about 30% to 35% of our users are on Apples," Gittins says.But it's not the software or the printing that makes Blurb different. It's how it gets it to people. "The public has no idea how many books are printed," she says. The ones you see in shops are only the tip of the iceberg; hundreds or thousands more are printed and then pulped. With Blurb, books are only printed when someone clicks to buy them on the company's site: zero waste. And authors can keep updating the book by updating the file: "We have a woman in the US, an environmental architect, and we asked her why she used us for her book, and she said that it's because it's environmentally aware - we only print when there's a buyer; the turnaround time means she can update the book three or four times a month rather than having to wait 18 months for it to be printed; and the creative control it gives her. Plus there's zero financial risk." Gittins beams.One can see all sorts of applications for an "instant" book: sports events, concerts, any sort of shared happening. A photographer covering the FA Cup, say, could produce a book that would be ready not long after the final whistle; fans filing out could pick up a ticket with a link to the book of the event, with the front cover showing the cup being hoisted.She expected mainstream publishers wouldn't be friendly. "But they've had a front-row seat to what's happened in other industries like music and film. They're calling us." After all, a book need never go out of print with Blurb: it simply waits to be bought. If mainstream publishers adopted Blurb's file formats, they wouldn't have to worry about pulping unsold books. And by setting the price right, any sale is a profit - and Blurb offers Facebook, Bebo and blog widgets to let people sell their books directly. So far this year Blurb has printed 140,000 different books, with people putting an average markup of $10 (&pound;6.50) on them. Revenues, she says, have exceeded their $30m target for this year, and the company has become "modestly profitable" in the past five months.One can see huge vistas opening up for Blurb's model; where Lulu.com focuses on authors wanting to publish manuscripts, Gittins has focused much more on the high end, where quality matters. Even so, she says that "we're being driven [towards text-only books] by customers who want to publish those sorts of books."But the clever thing is that it makes money every time someone clicks to buy a book. ("Lulu makes money when you sell your book. We make money on the printing," she says.) The focus on repeatability and cost means that there's presently only one printing site in Europe, in the Netherlands, although Gittins is investigating one for Prague. "The European side of the business has gone from 2.5% to 12.5%."On copyright Gittins becomes animated. Google's announcement that it will digitise books in the US "is a win for both sides", she says. "If you're an author and you've done the work, you should get the reward; and it's a win for the technology side because it's making us think about new rules for protecting usage rights. I think this will drive that."The only potential fly in the ointment as Blurb gets bigger and gets more users, is that some will be tempted to grab copyrighted material from the internet and try to profit from it. (EBay already sees similar problems: seeDigital thieves swipe your photos- and profit from them, June 19 2008). "Yes, there will be more pressure to use copyright material because it's high quality," Gittins says.Goodbye web 2.0Meanwhile, she's watching the deflation of the web 2.0 bubble with detachment - because in the summer, despite "not really needing it" ("we aren't burning cash," she says) Blurb raised an extra $5m of venture capital, leaving it with more than $10m in the bank. Gittins's connections meant that when Sequoia Capital gave its now-famous "RIP Good Times" presentation to its venture-funded companies (Blurb isn't among them), "I had 14 copies of the Powerpoint in my inbox the same day. It's a small community."She called an all-hands meeting just to reassure people that they wouldn't be firing anyone because of the crunch. "If they're not performing, well, of course that's a different matter," she says, and her steel shines through briefly. "What this really means is a chance to put daylight between ourselves and the competition." It certainly looks like a success story so far. Perhaps one day the story of Blurb will be a coffee-table book, available on Blurb's site - where, of course, it'll never go out of print.
The educational value ofgameshas been hotly debated. Most of us accept that the likes of Sim City and Civilization are quietly didactic experiences, while "brain-training" titles explicitly sell themselves as learning toys. But could it be that all games are about education? On a basic level, good game designers are more like good teachers than good movie directors.At the GameCity festival in Nottingham, Jonathan Smith, head of production at UK publisher TT Games, spoke about how he sees games as supportive learning environments. As the creators of the hugely successful Lego Star Wars, the team has conducted focus tests with children and gauged their reactions to new levels. The key lesson has been that sometimes, games are too hard. Even those for children often take the wrong approach, presenting a steep learning curve with puzzles that try to trip up the player, rather than providing an environment in which creative thinking and curiosity are rewarded.Smith quoted from a report, Children and Their Primary Schools, published by thePrimary Review, which set out to gauge children's responses to education. In it, children describe what makes a good teacher, saying that one "explains things clearly", "turns teaching into problem-solving rather than just giving information" and "makes sure it's not too big steps".Smith realises that every point applies to good game design as much as good teaching. The best developers create worlds in which players are supported and treated as individuals. Portal, Valve's sci-fi puzzler, is a good example. Players are seamlessly introduced to the complex physical laws of the game world through a series of lesson-like opening levels. It's then possible to progress through experimentation, rather than being flattened every five minutes for not doing it properly.LittleBigPlanet, Sony's creative platforming game, takes a similar approach. Neither resorts to a fenced-off tutorial section, a crap invention that usually manages to patronise and bore players.Videogaming is a child-like experience, whether you're playing the latest Disney tie-in or Manhunt 2. In a new virtual environment, we're all children, and the emotions connected with being bullied, or punished or frustrated by seemingly simple tasks are quick to surface. Smith's point is that this should never happen; that all games, like schools, can teach us about our place in the world, but only by providing a supportive framework to creativity and fun.So the next time you get hopelessly stuck in a game, remember - it's not your fault. You've simply been badly taught by the designer.• Get all the latest videogames news and gossip straight from ourtrio of bloggers
Off for the night?Please advise us whether to turn the computer off or leave it on standby. I am told that repeated starts are bad for the hard drive.David SharrattJS:It is up to you. To keep systems running for as long as possible, we used to leave them on all the time. This avoided stress (from the electronics heating and cooling) and reduced hard drive crashes. However, modern equipment no longer suffers from this thermal stress and hard drive heads are designed to "park" safely. So while it might still be true that leaving a PC on will make it last longer, most people replace their PCs long before parts fail.You save most energy by turning everything off. However, you have to reboot the PC each time. Turning the monitor off and hibernating the PC is a good compromise. It uses almost no energy - typically 2.5W or less - and your PC should restart in less than 30 seconds. You can save far more energy on household heating and lighting than you can by foregoing hibernation.Fung, not funI have received a Windows Security Alert pop-up message, which says the Windows Firewall has blocked some harmful software: Trojan-Keylogger.WIN32.Fung. There are three buttons marked Keep Blocking, Unblock, and Enable Protection. The last one leads to a site offering to sell me Personal Defender 2009 software. A scan with Norton 360, newly updated, detects no such harmful software.Russell GrahamJS:It's a sales pitch for Personal Defender 2009, which is malware that pretends to be anti-spyware. Don't install it, obviously. However, it's hard to tell if you have a problem because we don't know where the pop-up came from. Use Windows Task Manager and Windows Explorer to search for processes or files called voxexcrg.exe, opazohin.exe, mupd1_2_1165664.exe and mupd1_2_1711951.exe. Also, search the registry to see if there is an entry for Personal Defender 2009. These are all signs of a Fung infection. If you disconnect and reboot in Safe Mode, you should be able to remove these files manually. You should also scan your PC withSuperAntiSpyware, which has added Personal Defender 2009, and perhapsMalwarebytes. Having Norton doesn't guarantee you haven't got Fung.One way Messenger?I installed Windows Live Messenger Beta and I hate it - mostly because although it displays my personal emoticons on my chat partner's screen, it refuses to show them to me! However, when I tried to remove it using Add/Remove Programs, it runs its installer, which gives me the option of adding other things, but no option to uninstall it.Ben EvansJS:Microsoft is now rolling out Windows Live Wave 3, and if you use Hotmail, you've just been upgraded with no way back. I suspect all the other Wave 3 services will go the same way, including Windows Live Messenger, Mail and Calendar, Writer, Movie Maker, Photo Gallery, Outlook Connector, Family Safety parental controls and more. These are designed to look lovely and offer a much better user experience to start with, rather than deliver loads of functionality. They will probably have a common installer, and the whole shooting match is designed to come together with internet Explorer 8 and Windows 7. However, since this is an early beta, I wouldn't rush to try any of them - especially not with Windows XP. It is possible to uninstall these programs, but it doesn't look like fun. See the Messenger Geek,Jonathan Kay.Reading docx filesI tried your solution for reading a Microsoft Office 2007 docx file. I changed the file name to filename.docx.zip and unzipped it. But  it displayed it in raw XML format, not in text. What do I need to do?MandywrJS:XML is a text format, so you can read the text, though I agree the tags and formatting can make this difficult. Newer alternatives are to use Zamzar.com to convert the docx file into something you want, or to use NativeWinds' freeDocx2Rtf. If you have Microsoft Office 2000, XP or 2003, download the freeMicrosoft Office Compatibility Pack. This enables old versions of Office to read and write the new formats.Backchat• Veronica Piekosz had problems with her PowerBook G4. She has now taken it to an independent repairer, and says: "I've got this memory slot problem, which requires a new logic board to fix. I bought the machine in 2005, but the extended warranty expired in July this year. Apple have washed their hands of it, despite me arguing that they sold me a machine with a known problem, ie not of merchantable quality."Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Really smart pillPhilips says it has developed an "intelligent pill" that contains a microprocessor, battery, wireless radio and a pump to release medication.POP videosUniversal and Sony Pictures are introducing POP vending machines that will sell music, movies and console games.Facebook phoneToday, 3 UK is expected to launch an INQ phone that is closely integrated with Facebook social networking software.WiMax for NewmarketCI-Net is launching its RedKite WiMax-ready wireless broadband service in Newmarket, with other locations to follow.Safely does itNext week is the fourth annual Get Safe Online Week.News forecastingHubdub, a news prediction market, has been launched in the UK, expanding its local coverage.Microsoft sparks startupsBizSpark is a global programme to help early-stage startup companies, and includes free access to Microsoft development tools for three years.Local microbloggingHahana's The Loop is a local microblogging service aimed at mobile phone users.
I've been reading a lot about how passwords are no longer good security. The reality is more complicated. Passwords are still secure enough for many applications, but you have to choose a good one. And that's hard. The best way to explain how to choose a good password is to describe how they're broken. The most serious attack is called offline password guessing. There are commercial programs that do this, sold primarily to police departments. There are also hacker tools that do the same thing.As computers have become faster, the guessers have got better, sometimes being able to test hundreds of thousands of passwords per second.  These guessers might run for months on many machines simultaneously.They guess intelligently. They don't run through every eight-letter combination from "aaaaaaaa" to "zzzzzzzz" in order. That's 200bn possible passwords, most of them very unlikely. They try the most common password first: "password1". (Don't laugh; the most common password used to be "password".)A typical password consists of a root plus an appendage. The root isn't necessarily a dictionary word, but it's something pronounceable. An appendage is either a suffix (90% of the time) or a prefix (10% of the time). One guesser I studied starts with a dictionary of about 1,000 common passwords, things like "letmein," "temp," "123456," and so on. Then it tests them each with about 100 common suffix appendages: "1", "4u", "69", "abc", "!" and so on. It recovers about 24% of all passwords with just these 100,000 combinations.Then the guesser tries different dictionaries: English words, names, foreign words, phonetic patterns and so on for roots; two digits, dates, single symbols and so on for appendages. It runs the dictionaries with various capitalisations and common substitutions: "$" for "s", "@" for "a", "1" for "l" and so on. With a couple of weeks to a month's worth of time, this guessing strategy breaks about two-thirds of all passwords. But that assumes no biographical data. Any smart guesser collects whatever personal information it can on the subject before beginning. Postal codes are common appendages, so they're tested.It also tests names and addresses from the address book, meaningful dates, and any other personal information. If it can, the guesser indexes the target hard drive and creates a dictionary out of every printable string, including deleted files. If you ever kept an email with your password, or saved it in an obscure file somewhere, or if your program ever stored it in memory, this process will grab it. And it will recover your password faster.So if you want your password to be hard to guess, you should choose something that this process will miss. My advice is to take a sentence and turn it into a password. Something like "This little piggy went to market" might become "tlpWENT2m". That nine-character password won't be in anyone's dictionary. Of course, don't use this one, because I've written about it. Choose your own sentence - something personal.Strong passwords can still fail because people are sloppy. They write them on Post-it notes stuck to their monitors, share them with friends, or choose the same passwords for multiple applications. (I don't care about low-security passwords here, only about ones that matter: your bank accounts, your credit cards, etc.) Websites are sloppy, too, allowing people to set up easy-to-guess "secret questions" as a backup password or email them to customers.If you can't remember your passwords, write them down and put the paper in your wallet. But just write the sentence - or better yet - a hint that will help you remember your sentence. Or use a free program like Password Safe, which I designed to help people securely store all their passwords. Don't feel this is a failure; most of us have far too many passwords to be able to remember them all.Passwords can still provide good authentication if used properly. The rise of alternate forms of authentication is more because people don't use passwords securely, and less because they don't work any more.•Bruce Schneieris a security technologist and author
Google has applied its massive data-collecting power for the first time to prediction of the spread of disease, with the launch of a site that claims to be able to raise the alarm over flu outbreaks up to two weeks in advance of existing public services.Google Flu Trends takes the general search tracking technology pioneered by Google Trends and applies it specifically to influenza. The firm's engineers claim to have devised a way of analysing millions of individual searches related to the disease that in tests proved to correlate closely with the actual incidence of illness. That gives them the potential ability to predict rises in flu cases - information that could be used by health professionals to warn the public or plan their responses.Google found that if it assembled a cluster of queries people used when they were worried about flu - such as "flu symptoms", "chest congestion" or "where to buy a thermometer" - the aggregated trends were a strong indicator of flu levels across America."We wanted to step back and see if we couldn't model a real-world phenomenon using search query data," said Jeremy Ginsberg, a Google engineer involved in developing the system. He added that flu had been chosen as the pioneer illness to be tracked as it was a disease that killed hundreds of thousands of people around the world each year.To ascertain the potential accuracy of the data, Google compared its figures against statistics filed over the past five years by the US Centres for Disease Control, which has a network of 1,500 doctors across the US who provide weekly reports on the number of patients complaining of flu-like symptoms."We found we could highly accurately estimate what the flu activity levels would be in subsequent years," Ginsberg said. They also found that the Google statistics, which can be gathered daily, were up to two weeks ahead of the federal government's data, which took time to assemble because it came from so many doctors.The ability to speed up the response of health services could prove invaluable in the event of a vicious outbreak, or the emergence of a virulent strain.The results of Google's comparisons with official health statistics will be published in the science journal Nature.Google hopes to extend the service to other countries, and may in time include other illnesses.At present, the flu data is given for each of the 50 US states, though questions have inevitably been raised about whether it could eventually be applied to individual cities or even neighbourhoods and if so what possible effect that could have on local economies.The company says there are no privacy issues involved as the trends are gathered through combining millions of anonymous searches. But civil liberties groups are watching Google closely as it rapidly diversifies its data storage capacity. The company has already moved into the areas of individual and public health. It is exploring ways of compiling health information and fusing it with its other services, such as Google maps, and is experimenting with a tool that allows users to store their personal health information through Google sites.The innovation is part of a technology known as digital detection that is designed to apply online information to public health mapping. Google recently announced that its philanthropic arm was investing millions of dollars in companies such as Health Map and ProMED that are at the forefront of tracking the spread of disease, and sound the alarm as outbreaks occur.Web watchingUsing information from Google Trends to understand the behaviour of internet users has become commonplace on the web. Some trendwatchers tried to use the service to predict who was going to win the presidential election - particularly during the primaries that led to Barack Obama and John McCain being picked to run for the White House. Others have looked to it as a way to help improve the search engine ranking of their website - by picking popular terms and therefore being discovered by more people. Last month one organisation claimed internet fraudsters and virus writers were using data from Google Trends to help make their shady websites more popular. But the strangest use came when a man from Florida used Google Trends in his defence against obscenity charges.
It has just dawned on me that one of the places I have deposited part of my modest savings, the lending siteZopa, doesn't have a government-backed guarantee - unlike high street banks and credit unions. Yet the curious thing is that, despite all that and the globalcredit crunch, Zopa is enjoying a boom. In the third quarter new borrowers soared by nearly 50% to 3,700 compared with the previous quarter. Why is this happening - and is it safe?I joined Zopa, a UK startup, almost exactly three years ago because it was different, providing an online alternative to banks and their dreaded call centres. I was puzzled by the fact that while the whole internet seemed to be about removing or replacing the middlemen (eBay, Amazon etc), it hadn't happened with banks - which were the biggest, and most profitable, intermediaries of all. Could Zopa, or something similar, pull it off?The answer is "No" so far because Zopa is still a minnow (around &pound;27m in total loans), but its model is a breath of fresh air compared with the banks. It could have a big future if it survives the economic downturn untarnished. Instead of securitisation, credit default swaps and all the monkey tricks the banks have got up to - with and without any beneficial consequences for us, even when it was deemed to be working well - Zopa has a clean, inclusive alternative.It lends directly to real people, bypassing the banks. I can see them on my computer screen as I write. My money was divided into parcels of &pound;50 to spread the risk. I can see the names, or pen names, of borrowers and when they paid back interest and capital. There were two late payments in 2006. I click on one who was in arrears for &pound;11.68 and find he or she lives in Gloucester and had borrowed &pound;7,000 to consolidate existing debts. There is an actual person at the end of my loan! Unlike the banks, Zopa is flexible about late payments. It claims very few actual defaults and says that if they were all counted then in total they would be only 0.1% of total loans, which is far lower than the banks.Zopa lends mainly for new car purchases, home improvements and debt consolidation. Lenders and borrowers set their own terms for the interest rate they require and wait to see if there are takers. Higher risks entail higher rates. The latest entry on my screen is someone wanting &pound;1,600 over three years for home improvements at 12.1%. There have been 38 offers at an average rate of around 8%. Small wonder people facing usurious interest rates of up to 30% are tempted to refinance. Lenders, according to Zopa, get an average return of 8.9%. This is after a 1% annual deduction fee which, together with a one-off charge of &pound;94.25 for each loan, is how Zopa makes its money. There is a limit of &pound;15,000, so it avoids bigger loans where most defaults happen.What's the catch? Critically, you have to pass Zopa's rigorous credit checks. It only lends to people it is confident can repay. This is a source of strength in a recession, but not an option for many sub-prime borrowers. When asked what happens if unemployment reaches 10%, Zopa would say that means 90% are still working and subject to its stringent credit checks. It could run out of its seed capital, but the company claims it still has plenty in the bank.At first the procedure was far too complex. It is a lot better now, though could be improved further. I am impressed enough to consider putting more of my own money in. To be attracting money when it has no government guarantees ought to make it a role model. If it survives the recession in a fit state, and there is no reason to suppose it won't, then it, or something similar, could take off in a big way and become a serious rival to the likes of Lloyds and Barclays (though technically Zopa isn't a bank). With the banks in the state they are, it couldn't happen too soon.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk• This article was amended on Friday November 14 2008. We originally said that Zopa claimed no actual defaults when we should have said it claimed very few. This has been changed.
It seems not. After five months of exploring Mars, digging up the soil and making some startling discoveries along the way, the world's favourite interplanetary laboratory has gone off the radar - probably for good.Earlier this week, Nasa officials finally closed the book on the Phoenix Mars Lander five months, $475m (&pound;308m) and 605 Twitter messages after it first touched down on the red planet.In a final message attwitter.com/marsphoenix- yes, even interplanetary craft get their own social media accounts these days (even if they are run by a team back on Earth) - Phoenix signed off with a binary representation of the word "triumph".Veronica McGregor, from Nasa's press office at the Jet Propulsion Lab in Pasadena, California, gave Mars Phoenix its human face through Twitter - and saw its followers grow from 3,000 on landing day to more than 9,000 not long after, principally due to her willingness to respond to questions. "The Twitter audience is both intelligent and incredibly humorous. I think I was entertained by them as much as they were entertained by MarsPhoenix," she told us.But the Twitter feed also offered news: it had thefirst public announcementon July 31 of the discovery of water ice: "An ice-containing sample made it into the TEGA oven. I can now say I'm the first mission to Mars to touch and then *taste* the water. FTW!" (The latter being triumphant gamer jargon - "for the win!")"We've started other Twitter feeds at JPL, and other Nasa centres have also started accounts for their missions," McGregor said. "Personally, I'm continuing to post to @MarsRovers and I'll be starting @MarsScienceLab in the next few days. I'll post occasionally to @MarsPhoenix, too, with science updates and other news."Over the course of its mission - which lasted five months in total, two more than initially planned - Phoenix took 25,000 images of the Martian landscape, became the first landing craft to taste the ice below the Martian surface and even found perchlorate salts, which left scientists speculating about the possibility of Martian life.But Nasa's engineers had an off-again, on-again relationship with the machine, having lost contact last month before a brief rally when Phoenix got back in touch on Halloween. Its rise from the ashes did not last long, and communications went quiet again on November 2. This, said experts at JPL, means Phoenix is most likely now frozen beyond the point of repair.Still, there is a faint glimmer of hope for Phoenix's legion of fans. Although the skies are too dark and the weather too cold for Phoenix to operate during the winter months, it has a special "Lazarus" mode which might see it hibernate through to the spring ... before rising once again to carry on with its mission. FTW!
Russell Brand may have some spare time in his diary, but he probably won't be applying for the job. So what sort of person is likely to be named Britain's digital champion?The appointment, likely to be announced in January, is the big idea in a government plan to persuade the digitally excluded - one-third of Britons  don't use the web - to get online.According to the plan, the champion will "work as a high-profile public figure who can raise the profile of this agenda, gaining support from industry, the third and public sectors, plus central and local government". While this sounds a bit like the job description of the old e-envoy, the government is looking for someone with a bit more public recognition for the new post. Sadly, few leading figures on Britain's IT scene fall into that category.Paul Murphy, the minister for digital inclusion, will not be drawn on who the ideal candidate would be. But he is understood to be looking for someone whose face is familiar to the constituencies that the campaign needs to reach: the poor, elderly, some minority ethnic groups and multiply-disadvantaged families.This could be a problem. While techie celebs abound - Stephen Fry, for example - they tend to be white, male and, well, a bit posh. Lewis Hamilton might tick an ethnic box, but would a government job tempt him at this stage in his career?From the world of TV, Carol Vorderman might be a safe bet, though as women are now overtaking men in parts of the web population, a female role model isn't necessarily the highest priority. Sir Alan Sugar, representing an older demographic, might bring some spark to the role, though ministers might be uncomfortable with someone whose catchphrase is "you're fired".We're sure that Technology Guardian readers will come up their own candidates. Our tip to the digital inclusion team is to sound out Pauline Prescott before she gets snapped up for something else. She has the evident ability to engage with absolutely everyone in society - and she come with her own chauffeur.Who's your tip? Send the name totech@guardian.co.uk
One of the dafter ideas to become conventional wisdom during the first dotcom bubble was that our political system suffered some flaw that would be curable by letting people vote from their desktops or mobiles. Amazingly, this still seems to be official policy. Michael Wills, the minister charged with constitutional reform, conceded to Parliament last month that no new pilots of e-voting are planned. However, further work on e-voting "will be funded as necessary". He said the government is still "taking stock" of previous local pilots.It would be braver, and more realistic, to admit that the whole idea of remote e-voting is dead. While there are a million ways in which the web and other new digital media could enhance representative democracy, e-voting in elections is not one of them. The potential dangers, ranging from coercion to electronic sabotage, are simply too great to risk in exchange for the unproven benefits of a cosmetic modernisation.The UK wouldn't be the first country to take this step. The Netherlands, which in 2004 and 2006 enthusiastically promoted e-voting for overseas voters as a step towards an all-electronic election, will next year revert to paper ballots. The U-turn followed a successful campaign by a group opposed to all electronic polling machines: its tactics included buying a couple of machines to crack their software.Leontine Loeber, of the Dutch Electoral Council, told this summer's European Electronic Voting conference in Austria that it is a mistake to treat voting as just another transaction that can be computerised in the quest for efficiency and modernity. Unlike banking, in elections every voter must in principle be able to verify that the system works correctly. And unlike banking, a voting system cannot tolerate an occasional error once in a while. A bank can refund victims of errors; a government cannot refund votes. A few such errors, and trust in the whole institution is gone. Ask Al Gore.Worryingly, the conference heard that the UK is actually top of 31 countries in an international index of "e-voting readiness". In such measures as political and legal context, state of e-government infrastructure and e-voting experience, the UK came out ahead of the US, other large European countries and even the e-obsessed Estonia. "The legal context of Great Britian shows an excellent environment for e-voting," the authors conclude.Whether that accolade will embolden ministers to revive e-voting remains to be seen. It is more likely that instinctive political caution will kick in. Ministers know that electoral glitches to do with IT will attract far, far more publicity than paper ballots being mislaid on their way to the count. Even technophile Finland had a taste of that the other week, when 232 votes out of 12,000 cast in a trial of electronic voting went adrift. The justice ministry blamed voters for failing to press the "OK" button as instructed; their British counterparts would be unwise to try the same tactic.Fair enough, e-voting enthusiasts will say, but didn't a certain superpower hold a presidential election last week? And didn't certain prophecies of disaster with new voting computers turn out to be unfounded? That may well be true: Homer Simpson's experience aside (you'll find the clip all over the web), computerised polling machines introduced after the 2000 Florida fiasco seem to have performed relatively well. Certainly there was "no massive systemic meltdown", in the words of Computerworld newspaper.But we are not talking about remote e-voting here. The new machines were in existing polling places, so were partly protected from electronic sabotage and users were not vulnerable to coercion. And all that was necessary to be judged a success was to do a better job than the wheezy hole-punchers that brought the US electoral system into ridicule in the past.The US election had another lesson for the e-voting movement. In the UK, the idea gained traction in the first place because of politicians' fears about what they saw as irreversibly declining turnouts in all advanced countries. I have argued before that the way to tackle decline is to follow Australia, Belgium and Brazil and make voting mandatory. But last week, Americans showed that, if you give the electorate something important to vote on, it will turn out - regardless of technological bells and whistles.And it's perhaps a bit patronising for ministers here to suggest otherwise.
Imagine arriving at work to find that your phone has been taken away while your colleagues still have theirs. And one year on, you're still without a phone.That's what happened to Simon Pearse and Alan Goldsmith last November. Pearse, an actuary who is hard of hearing, started using a technology called captioned telephony (CapTel) to make calls after his company switched to a digital phone system on which he found it difficult to hear clearly. In captioned telephony calls, an operator turns the voice of the hearing caller into captions on the phone of the deaf caller using voice recognition software. Put simply, it is a phone with subtitles.Goldsmith, a manager at DSM, a global chemical company, says the system enabled him "to have real telephone conversations. In fact, some people who know me had thought my hearing had returned!"The two men are not alone. An Ofcom feasibility report into relay services found that between 420,000 and 1.2 million people have difficulty in using voice telephony. While many are elderly and could be put off by new technology such as CapTel, the potential uptake is still huge.Hello, operator?However, relay phone services depend on subsidies to remain affordable for customers: it is adding the human operators that drives up the cost. As Ross Trotter, vice-chairman of the National Association of Deafened People, told the BBC recently: "For hearing people, a phone call costs a penny a minute. For a deaf person using a video or captioned relay service, the cost is nearly &pound;1 a minute."Although CapTel is alive and well in the US, in the UK the service was subsidised by government funding that cost between &pound;70 and &pound;600 per user. This confined the service to working hours, and not enough people used it and theservice closed downlast November after 18 months, with nothing to replace it."I stopped using the phone," Pearse says. But this gotTAG- an action group campaigning for better telecom services at fair prices for deaf people - going. The closure of a number of phone relay services in the past few years, including CapTel, prompted people like Ruth Myers, who chairs TAG, to start a campaign, "Bringing Deaf Telecoms into the 21st Century". TAG is a consortium of organisations lobbying for better telecommunications for deaf people, and is now calling for a review of the current phone relay funding structure, which only covers Typetalk, a phone relay system introduced in 1991.Typetalk is the dinosaur of phone relay systems. Jeff McWhinney, chief executive of the SignVideo interpreting service, explains: "More companies are switching over to digital telephony networks, which makes traditional analogue textphones redundant unless special adaptations are placed within the network to accommodate them. Second, the last company to sell textphones - TeleTec Internations - ceased trading in 2007 and all textphones have to be imported."For all the technological advancement in the past 15 years, there has been no real improvement in access to the phone system for people with hearing difficulties since Typetalk was introduced. Legislation obliges the government to fund Typetalk calls so they can be made at the same phone rates as on voice calls. However, despite lobbying by TAG of Ofcom, the Department of Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (BERR) - the former DTI - BT and otherleading telecoms providers, no funding has been set aside to ensure that other more efficient relay services which have come into play since the legislation was passed have been made affordable - the main reason why they couldn't survive in the UK.Myers says: "Four decades after telephones became commonplace in British households, many deaf and hard-of-hearing people still struggle to use the telephone network and some cannot use it at all."'Basic human right'In contrast in the US, where the onus for universal services in telecommunications is on the industry, all phone customers are charged a small levy which is used to provide captioned telephony and other relay services, allowing companies to offer deaf people phone services at the same rates as other people. Additionally, deaf people in the US can choose from several kinds of relay systems.Email, chat software and text messaging have, without a doubt, made the workplace (and the world, for that matter) more accessible.But what happens when you come across a technological glitch on your internet banking? You are given a voice phone number to call. And there's hardly a 999 email address, is there? It's true what Claudio Pollack, the director of consumer policy in Ofcom says: "Access to a phone call is a basic human right".Pearse and Goldsmith say CapTel allowed them to achieve their potential in the workplace. Goldsmith has reverted to using Typetalk while Pearse has to ask colleagues to take notes at conference calls. "I feel a bit of a burden doing this," he says.Christopher Jones, the director of AccEquE Ltd, a company that offers consultancy services in telecommunications for deaf and hard-of-hearing people, agrees: "We are in an extremely poor state for accessibility and equality for deaf people with telecommunication access. This is affecting deaf people's performance in the workplace."In a parliamentary reception last October, Malcolm Bruce MP, whose daughter is deaf, described the lack of modernised phone relay services as "an increasing and unintended form of discrimination that must be rectified".The technology is available to allow deaf and hard-of-hearing people this to be rectified. Now, the will - and the money - needs to be found.What's on my line?TypetalkDeaf people have been using "minicoms" (textphones) to make phone calls for decades, but they could not be used to call voice phones. The idea of a relay system, where an operator would relay between textphones and regular phones, emerged. The UK's version, Typetalk, launched in 1991.TalkByTextA PC application that allows text calls to be made and received - like Typetalk, a relay system. Faster, but works on PCs, rather than Macs. A web version can be used on Macs but only to make calls not receive them. Users complain that it is difficult to deduce emotion from text-based relay calls.SignVideoDeaf users call the SignVideo centre on a videophone, connecting to an interpreter who pops up on their screen. The interpreter makes their call, relaying between the videophone and voice phone.CapTeluses voice recognition (VR) software. An operator re-voices the hearing person's dialogue into VR software, turning it into text. The web version lets people make calls anywhere, as long as they have a computer and phone. It can even work using a BlackBerry or mobile phone.• This article was amended on Monday 27 April 2009. We were wrong to refer to Typetalk's "analogue machines" and to say it is unsuitable for the work place. Talk-by-Text was changed to TalkByText and a sentence under that heading was changed from 'Faster, but only works on PCs, not Macs, and users complain that it is difficult to deduce emotion from text-based relay calls', to 'Faster, but works on PCs, rather than Macs. A web version can be used on Macs but only to make calls not receive them. Users complain that it is difficult to deduce emotion from text-based relay calls.' This has been corrected.
The idea of a pen and paper seems almost antiquated, relegated in favour of ultraportable laptops and dictation machines. Yet there will always be times when nothing beats its simplicity - nothing except, perhaps, theLivescribe Pulse. It's not the first smartpen, nor will it be the last. But it's certainly the one that transcends shiny gadget-ness into the realm of actual usefulness.Launched earlier this year in the US, the Pulse -which contains a microphone, speaker and tiny camera, as well as one or two gigabytes of memory - is simple to use: just write. But not anywhere - you need special paper printed with tiny dots, which the Pulse uses to record not only your writing but also anything you say while writing. Even better, by tapping on the section of text it instantly starts audio playback.You can use some of the Pulse's functions on regular paper, as the company supplies stickers which can be put in notebooks and let you record and play back, even if you won't be able to sync the audio with notes. But regardless of what paper you use, the main downside is that the Pulse can't yet automatically transcribe the audio or the written word into text. You have to sync it via USB with a PC (Mac compatibility arrives in December, the website suggests). Besides charging the pen, synching with a PC transfers all the information into the LiveScribe Desktop software. (You can play the audio back via the pen.) LiveScribe Desktop shows you the pages, and you can click on the text to hear the audio.The Pulse is aimed primarily at students, but isn't limited to taking notes in class; for a journalist, it's perfect for interviews. You soon find yourself using it for everyday tasks, from dictating your shopping list to making sure that phone number you scribbled down is correct. The fact that, charging aside, you don't need a PC is probably the Pulse's biggest selling point, as all you need to set it up and use it can be found in the covers of the notebooks, one of which comes free with the starter pack.The Pulse isn't enormously expensive - the 1GB model costs $159 (&pound;102) and the 2GB comes in at $199 - but as it has yet to be officially launched in Europe, you can only buy it via Amazon.com. Unfortunately, this means shipping isn't cheap. Last week I bought a pack of four notebooks and six journals for around $90; shipping was $100. Ouch.The Pulse has a lot of potential and works amazingly well, doing what it says on the tin and quite a bit more besides. It won't ever replace a PC completely, nor is it designed to; instead it's the perfect halfway house of new technology with a classic twist.Pros:Lightweight; easy to use; interesting applicationsCons:Doesn't turn scribble into text; paper can be costlylivescribe.com
Licensing software used to be straightforward. In the old days, you'd either pay for the number of users accessing the software, or for the number of processors in the computer running it. But as processor technology developed, the rules changed."You're seeing a fundamental shift in the architecture of systems," says Mike Malloy, who chairs the Transaction Processing Council, which creates standards for testing the speed of computer servers and software.Manufacturers started putting more than one CPU, or "core", on a single chip to make it faster. Instead of pumping electricity through the chip as fast as they could to carry out a single set of software instructions more quickly, vendors could use each core in a multi-core processor to handle its own sequence of software instructions (or "thread"). A single processor would have multiple cores, each carrying out an individual software task such as playing a video or running a virus scan.Core blimeyIf software licensed on a per-CPU basis was only ever meant to work on one chip, how does that translate when the chip has two cores? Or four, or eight? With manufacturers promising thousands of cores on a chip it's an important question.To make things more complex, a second core doesn't necessarily double the power of a processor. "All cores are equal - but some are more equal than others," quips Ronan Miles, chair of the Oracle UK User Group. And the amount of power that additional cores provide varies depending on which manufacturer's processor you're using."Software vendors have created complex licence agreements, and they get to the point where depending on what processor you're running on, how many cores are there and whether it's a virtual environment or a physical one, things change. They're all using different methods," says Steve Butler, chief executive at software asset management tools company ManageSoft. The rules also keep changing, as the vendors try to work it out, he warns.Oracle gives people the option to pay for its software on a per-user basis, but advises against that if you're providing a web application for an unspecified number of users. In that case, you'd use its processor licensing metric.If you're using one processor with two cores, Oracle treats it as a single processor. But for a Sun Ultrasparc T1 process with four, six or eight cores at 1.0 Ghz or eight cores at 1.2 GHz, the company requires customers to multiple the total number of cores by 0.25. If you're using an Intel or AMD multi-core chip, you must multiply the number of cores by 0.5. Any other cores are to be multiplied by 0.75. And if the resulting number isn't an integer, you round it up.No wonder enterprise customers are confused. "End users are dealing with many different licensing models from many different publishers and the challenge is dealing with lots of variety. They may have 500 different licences to manage," warns Steven Russman, executive director of the International Business Software Managers' Association."It's always felt a bit like a war," complains Ollie Ross, head of research at the Corporate IT Forum, an organisation representing blue-chip technology customers in the UK. Whenever a new technology is introduced, software vendors try to reposition their licences to ensure that they won't lose out on revenue, she says.How companies fight the licensing cold war depends on their business model. Oracle, which traditionally came from the high end of the market, developed a complex licensing system. Microsoft, on the other hand, doesn't acknowledge the concept of cores at all, pricing instead on a per-chip basis. "As opposed to Oracle, which would look at the scale of a system, we are a commodity supplier, so we price low to sell lots," says Neil Sanderson, head of virtualisation at Microsoft. "We don't try to optimise the relationship between the cost of software and the value of what we deliver."Microsoft's approach is simplest, but Ross advocates a more radical solution. "As we reach a point of maturity in organisational use of the software, you have to understand the value of that software overall to the organisation and you have to be able to put some kind of price on how much you pay for that value," she says.But how do you define software's value to the business? That must be thrashed out between the vendor and the customer, says Miles. "That's how an enterprise-wide licence might work." Enterprise-wide licences are agreements where the customer buys the rights to use the software across the company, regardless of how many processors, users or cores they're talking about. A licensing scheme based on business value could link software payments to a business metric. A software vendor could charge an airline based on the number of seats that it sold that quarter, for example. But that opens up other problems. When the economy is in the tank and those business metrics are adversely affected, the software vendor's profits could suffer. They end up taking part ownership of their customer's risk.Rare beastNo wonder such agreements are rare. However, experts say that they're hearing about more of them. Right now, though, they are restricted to companies with enough clout to make them happen, and they're commercially sensitive, which makes it difficult for outsiders to know about them. So funnily enough, the more transparent we try to make the licensing process surrounding this strange animal, the more opaque it gets.
Tired of generic me-too puzzle games on your DS? Then Professor Layton and the Curious Village might appeal. Basically this is a collection of mini-games with a beautifully drawn adventure stuck on top. Playing as Layton and his sidekick, Luke, the game involves visiting the eponymous village and solving the puzzles within. The conundrums vary but are generally tricky brainteasers that will certainly test the grey matter. Most are solved by drawing on the screen, circling words and generally interacting, Brain Training style. And owners of the Brain Training games are clearly the audience here, although the game features – story, characters, progression – should widen the appeal to more traditional gamers. Despite new puzzles being available to download every week, longevity will be an issue. The story-based nature of the game means players are unlikely to return once finished, but while it lasts – and there are 120 puzzles – Professor Layton is one of the most enjoyable games on the DS.
The efforts of Brian Krebs and other security researchers have resulted inMcColo's hosting service being stopped, and this has resulted in far less spam being sent. However, it won't last long: within a week, you can expect spam levels to be higher than ever.Krebs writes the Security Fix blog at the Washington Post, and he's written a series of items about the event. These includeHost of Internet Spam Groups is Cut Off(free registration required), and on the blog:Major Source of Online Scams and Spams Knocked OfflineandSpam Volumes Drop by Two-Thirds After Firm Goes Offline.Krebs contacted the companies that provided more than 90% of McColo's connection to the larger Internet, and explained what they were doing. Global Crossing and Hurricane Electric then closed McColo's connections. Hurricane's Benny Ng said:"We looked into it a bit, saw the size and scope of the problem you were reporting and said 'Holy cow! Within the hour we had terminated all of our connections to them."It looks as though the bulk of the spam was being sent via botnets of PCs, but McColo customers were running them. Anyway, the effect was noticeable:Nilesh Bhandari, product manager with IronPort, said the company sees an average of about 190 billion spam e-mails each day. Then, at around 4:30 p.m. ET yesterday, IronPort saw a huge decline in spam levels. For the 24 hour period ending Tuesday, the company tracked about 112 billion spam messages.Also, Krebs says:The badness attributed to McColo was not limited to spam. It included child pornography sites; sites that accepted payment for spam and child porn; rogue anti-virus Web sites; and a huge malicious software operation that apparently stole banking and credit card data from more than a half million people worldwide.Great work, and many thanks to Brian Krebs. However, you have to wonder why internet service providers are not a bit more aware of the traffic they are carrying, and don't make bigger efforts to stop net abuse.The way things are, the botnet herders will just find other companies to host their evil operations, leaving us back where we started. Or worse, because they'll no doubt increase spam levels to make up for their lost earnings -- or thievings.The other part of the problem is there really are people stupid enough to buy from spammers. Not many: researchers at the University of California, Berkeley and UC, San Diego (UCSD) sent almost 350 million e-mail messages in 26 days and made only 28 sales, according to aBBC Newsreport. On this basis, however, the Storm spamming network could be making "about $7,000 (£4,430) a day or more than $2m (£1.28m) per year".  The problem is that the damage they cause to internet users costs vastly more.
Google has applied its massive data-collecting power for the first time to the prediction of the spread of disease, with the launch of a new site that claims to be able to raise the alarm over flu outbreaks up to two weeks in advance of existing public services.Google Flu Trends takes the general search tracking technology pioneered by Google trends and applies it specifically to influenza. The firm's engineers claim to have devised a way of analysing millions of individual searches related to the disease that in tests proved to correlate closely with the actual incidence of illness.That gives them the potential ability to predict spikes in flu cases that in turn could be used by health professionals to warn the public or plan their responses.Google found that if it assembled a cluster of queries people used when they were worried about flu - such as "fly symptoms", "chest congestion" or "where to buy a thermometer" - the aggregated trends were a strong indicator of flu levels across America."We wanted to step back and see if we couldn't model a real-world phenomenon using search query data," Jeremy Ginsberg, a Google engineer involved in developing the new system, told the Guardian's science podcast. He added that flu had been chosen as the pioneer illness to be tracked as it was a serious disease that killed hundreds of thousands of people around the world each year.To ascertain the potential accuracy of the data, Google compared its figures against statistics filed over the past five years by the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention that has a network of 1,500 doctors across the US who provide weekly reports on the number of patients complaining of flu-like symptoms."We found we could highly accurately estimate what the flu activity levels would be in subsequent years," Ginsberg said.They also found that the Google statistics, which can be gathered on a daily basis, were up to two weeks ahead of the federal government's data due to the time lag in assembling information from so many doctors.The ability to speed up the response of health services by up to a fortnight could prove invaluable in the event of a vicious outbreak, or the emergence of a new virulent strain.The results of its comparisons with official health statistics will be published in the science journal Nature.So far Google has only rolled out the service to the US, though it hopes to extend it to other countries, and may in time also widen the net to include other illnesses. At present, the flu data is given for each of the 50 states, though questions have inevitably been raised about whether in time it could be applied to individual cities or even neighbourhoods and if so what possible side-effects that could have for local economies.The company stresses that there are no privacy issues involved as the trends are gathered through combining millions of anonymous searches.But civil liberties groups are already watching Google closely as it rapidly diversifies its data storage capacities.The company has already spread its tentacles into the areas of individual and public health. It is exploring ways of compiling health information and fusing it with its other services, such as Google maps, and is experimenting with a tool that allows users to store their personal health information through Google sites.The innovation forms part of a frontier technology known as digital detection that is designed to apply online information to public health mapping. Google recently announced that its philanthropic arm was investing millions of dollars in companies that are at the forefront of tracking the spread of diseases such as Health Map and ProMED that sound the alarm as new outbreaks occur.
Wrath of the Lich King, the second expansion to World of Warcraft, launches tomorrow – although there are numerous midnight openings for fans tonight – and I sat down with Blizzard's COO Paul Sams and Associate Producer Lee Sparks this afternoon.What's new then? Why should fans, or indeed anyone, be interested in Lich King?(Lee Sparks) Lich King is by far the best content we have ever produced. We are raising the level cap by ten to 80. The main addition is a new continent for players to visit calledNorthrend.  We feel we've made this content the most immersive ever. The story is key and we really bringArthasto the forefront of the player experience.  We have a new class called Death Knight, which is the first Hero class. This class has some of the best quests we've ever created. Vehicles are in the game for the first time so players will be able to use these.This all sounds great but will it be too complex to appeal to new players? How do you get new players in?(Paul Sams) There are multiple entry points for players. Word of mouth is key. Positive feedback is so important to us and word of mouth is vital. We also do TV and other ads which show our compelling content. This helps draw new players in we may have not already touched.  Our last marketing campaign was very successful in bringing in new players. But above all is word of mouth. We have to do right by our customers.You are adding things like achievements and other features to Lich King that have already been seen in other games. How much influence do your competitors have on what you develop for WoW?(LS) We always want to make sure we make the best game we can and we primarily focus on we as gamers think is fun.(PS) Like everyone we're influenced by other people. We don't think we are the only people who can make good games. If you look at the history of Blizzard we have always been focussed on refining and perfecting concepts that have been introduced. We may not have introduced a concept but often we've seen one we liked and then thought wouldn't it better if it did this, this and this to make the feature really work. We are a combination. Some of our features in the game have been introduced by us. Others you may have seen in a competitor or another game and we try and refine and improve it. We call it Blizzard polish.How important is the story to the game? Do your players care about it?(LS)The story is very important to Lich King. We're picking off where we left off at the end of the Warcraft 3 expansion. With Burning Crusade we had a lot of story but a lot of it was in endgame so it wasn't very visible to a large proportion of the customer base. With Lich King we've made it so that the player is immersed in the story from the start. This draws people into the game even more.(PS)Story as a whole is very important to Blizzard.  We have a large creative development department in the company. Part of their job is to review all concepts whether in game, comic or movie and make sure there is story continuity.  It's vital we maintain consistency. We have some players who are really hardcore about the story and we have a team dedicated to it.How do you get a balance between the hardcore 40-man raid guys and those who want to solo through game at their own pace?(PS)We provide varying experiences. You can solo through the content and we have made a lot more content available to the 10-man raid groups rather than larger groups.(LS)We've tried to appeal to all kinds of players. One of the key things with Lich King is that we have been refining the 5-player dungeons so that they are shorter and more accessible. We learnt from feedback that players like having the options. If you look at Scarlet Monastery from the original game this was a dungeon that got great feedback, primarily because it was split into four sections. This meant players could do one or two sections if they didn't have much time or do all four is they did. It's a great luxury to be able to jump on at lunchtime and have a dungeon experience.(PS)Unlike a lot of our competitors we've done a lot of work on questing and other elements so that the game is more accessible in bite-sized chunks. We want players to feel heroic even if they can't put hours and hours of play.How do you get round the problem of new players who want to play with their friends but don't want to spend weeks getting up to speed?(LS)We sped up levelling a little more in the original 0-60 levels and we've also sped up levelling in Outland too. We also have arecruit-a-friendsystem that allows you and a friend to receive triple experience when playing with new characters. You can also grant levels to the other player. For every two levels you earn you can give one to your friend. So for example if I get to level 16 and you are level 10 I can bump you up so we are nearer in level range and can play together.From a design point of view the previous expansion Burning Crusade was very much "out there" visually. Would you say Lich King was more back to basics?(LS) Visually I'd say Lich King has some of the best visuals we have ever done. But when it comes to story then yes we are going back to basics. Story wasn't always very well done in Burning Crusade but the story is key to Lich King and we think fans will enjoy it.Lich King then? Getting it tonight/tomorrow or waiting for things to settle down before entering Northrend?
OK, let's agree one thing from the start: this is a terrible idea. Giving me a weekly column about the tech industry is so idiotic as to be borderline criminally negligent. [Gee, thanks – Tech.Ed.]For those fortunate enough not to have encountered me professionally, my career to date has seen me kicked out of every web company I've worked at, including two where I actually fired myself. Then there was my previous column for (New) Media Guardian which ended after I plugged my own projects once too often, but not before I almost got myself — and the paper — sued for libel. Then there was my run-in with the obscene publications squad, my naming-and-shaming in the Evening Standard and — well, you can read all about it in thebook I wroteabout how I am, quite literally, not safe for work. So I can only assume the decision to commission this column was made by the same person who offered Bristol Palin her gig as the face of Durex or chose Ben Cohen as technology correspondent for Channel 4 news.As an added complication, I'm writing this first installment on a killer hangover, having spent the past week co-hosting a visit to London bySarah Lacy. Sarah is probably Silicon Valley's best-connected reporter, having covered the tech scene for Business Week and Yahoo as well as literally writingthe bookon the superstars of web 2.0. In recognition of the fact that she has managed to achieve all of this in the misogynistic world of technology, I referrered to her in this week'sGuardian tech podcastas a RILF.One of the most interesting parts of spending time with Sarah (apart from watching her in a cowboy hat, singing Sweet Home Alabama at Martha Lane Fox's karaoke bar) was watching her field questions about the Valley from London entrepreneurs. "We just want to be like you," they wailed, like some kind of Baloo 2.0, usually going on to ask: "What is it that makes the Valley so special?" Sarah, ever the professional, patiently explained how the Valley is a perfect ecosystem of ideas, talent, money and networking which would be almost impossible to recreate anywhere else.She's right, of course, but her answer is also far too abstract to be useful to us in the UK. What we need are concrete ideas. A list of Valley characteristics that we can simply copy and paste to guarantee that the next Google or Facebook will be born in Hackney. Unfortunately, Sarah's back in San Francisco now so it falls to me to step into her breach with just such a list.For a start, few people who have spent time hanging out with successful Valley entrepreneurs would doubt the importance of Asperger's Syndrome. In fact, so close is the relationship between Asperger's and web 2.0 that they should probably just rename it Asbrgr. If we're going to compete, all British tech CEOs should be forced to take lessons in social awkwardness and ridiculously obsessive focus. Success in these lessons will, of course, be defined by an inability to concentrate on them. Also, investors must insist that a place is reserved on every company's board for an autist in residence.Secondly, personal hygiene. If there's a running theme in Sarah's book it's a dislike of showering amongst successful founders. The lesson: London entrepreneurs should be showering, at most, twice a week — and even then it should be in Provigil dissolved in Mountain Dew. Two birds, one cup.Thirdly, earthquakes, sea lions and Toyota Priuses. We have hardly any. San Francisco has a shedload. You do the math.Fourthly, fan boys. Kevin Rose (Digg), Mark Zuckerberg (Facebook) and even reporters like Sarah andTechcrunch's Michael Arrington can't walk across the street in the Valley without being accosted by someone wearing a hoodie with their logo on it. With that kind of adulation, it's no wonder entrepreneurs want to stick around. Where are the fanboys of London 2.0? The acne-ridden dorks dressing in head to toe black in tribute to Richard Moross from Moo, or the screaming Mike Butcher groupies in Techcrunch UK thongs (like the US versions, but with more scant coverage). I'm doing my bit by giving everyone I meet a T-shirt with my face on the front. It probably won't help generate fans, but it'll definitely help me get rid of all these T-shirts.But more important than all of the above, the critical thing that the Valley has that we don't is a reliable gossip source. There are few things more guaranteed to bring together a community than gossip. In the Valley, much as they won't admit it, everybody hasValleywag.comon RSS to make sure they don't miss a single post about who Kevin Rose has slept with (spoiler alert: everyone) or the latest layoff rumours (spoiler alert: everyone). If we're serious about making London the new Silicon Valley then we need to find our own jealous industry hacks, happy to out their gay CEO grandmothers for a thousand extra page views, and who understand that being profane is always more interesting than being profound.Actually, wait, suddenly that commissioning decision makes perfect sense. Awesome. Let's do this fucking thing.Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atbringingnothing.com
The infamousXbox360 "red ring of death" (indicating a failed unit) has caused Microsoft - and its customers - untold pain in the three years since the console's launch in 2005, and cost it $1.15bn (&pound;738m) last year. Microsoft has never said publicly why the console was plagued with faults: it seems that poor production quality was at the heart of the failures - an all-round problem with no single cause except impatience on the company's part as it tried to become the leader invideogameconsoles.It was an ambitious attack. Microsoft's engineers started working on the Xbox 360 at least a year after Sony's engineers began work on the PlayStation 3, yet wound up shipping a year earlier. With the first Xbox, the company lost $3.7bn (&pound;2.3bn) over four years, mostly because costs of the box - particularly its hard drive - were too high. Bill Gates didn't really care about the losses; that was simply the ante for getting into an exciting new business. But Steve Ballmer, who took over from Gates as chief executive during the first generation, really wanted the Xbox business to be profitable second time around.Software-heartedEven though early testing showed that production machines had flaws,Microsoftdidn't delay the launch because it believed the quality problems would subside. "They got enamored with the idea of the Microsoft army rolling everything out at the same time," says one source. "Their thinking shows that they are a software company at heart," says one veteran manufacturing executive. "They put something out and figure they can fix it with the next patch or come up with a bug fix."In the hurried design process, Microsoft decided late to add a hard disk drive, and then wireless controllers. The hard drive blocked airflow on one side of the machine; the wireless modules had to have enough space to avoid electrical interference. The console shell was poked full of holes to ensure airflow. In the end, the machine was a series of compromises."It turned out in the end that this was all going too far, too fast," says a source. "They were adding too many features after things were locked down. That incremental feature adding just made it fragile."Some of the defects were latent, potentially not showing up for some time after the machine was used. Up to 50% of all defects can be latent. And production yields - the number of machines coming off the production lines that passed testing - were low. In August 2005, the machines' aggregate defect rate - from Microsoft's contract manufacturers Flextronics and Wistron, in their factories in China - was allegedly just  68%.In a memo dated August 30 2005, the team reported overheating graphics chips, cracking heat sinks, cosmetic issues with the hard disk and the front of the box, underperforming graphics memory chips from Infineon (now Qimonda), a problem with the DVD drive - and more. At that point, the contract manufacturers were behind schedule and had only built hundreds of units when they were supposed to be making thousands every week."There were so many problems, you didn't know what was wrong," says a source. "The [test engineers] didn't have enough time to get up and running." Shutting down production to debug everything properly might have delayed the launch in Europe or Japan.Microsoft responded to this story (in full atVenturebeat.com) with a statement that it has already acknowledged an "unacceptable number of repairs" to Xbox 360 consoles and had responded to the hardware failures with a free replacement program. "This topic has already been covered extensively in the media," the statement said. "This new story repeats old information, and contains rumors and innuendo from anonymous sources, attempting to create a new sensational angle, and is highly irresponsible."I have tried to verify the facts. Microsoft has never disclosed its actual return rates. But according to data obtained by VentureBeat, the total number of returns climbed above 1.2m consoles early last year. That is a huge figure, considering Microsoft had only shipped 11.6m consoles to stores by the time of the writeoff in mid-2007.The warning signs were present even before Microsoft shipped any machines. In August 2005, as Microsoft was gearing up production, an engineer said: "Stop. You have to shut down the line." When production results are really off-kilter, stopping a line and tracing a problem back to its roots is the answer. But in this case, the decision was made to carry on.Nobody listened to that engineer, apparently because console launches are always hurried affairs. Yields generally start low. As the manufacturers analyse data and tighten controls on each assembly step, they learn how to drive the yields up.On November 22 2005, the Xbox 360 went on sale. Consumers could run graphically beautiful games on high-definition TVs. But machines started failing almost immediately. At the time, the company said it had received"isolated reports"of console failures and that returns were within the normal range.According to theConsumer Electronics Association, the average return rate for products where the consumer gets their money back is about 2%. Microsoft's internal data assumed that in the long term 6% or 7% of the consoles would be defective before shipping into the market - a yield of 94% or 93%. The rate of return was expected to be low as well. But even after 2005, Microsoft struggled to ship enough units. The yield was typically only around 70% - far short of the target - until May 2007.Problems deniedBy the end of March 2006, Microsoft said it had shipped more than 3.3m consoles to retailers. But there was a growing "bone pile" of more than 500,000 defective consoles in a warehouse at Wistron and a repair centre in Texas - either duds off the factory line or returned boxes, according to sources. Production yield was climbing, but far too slowly. Meantime, Microsoft stood by its statement that returns were within "normal rates".The denial of widespread problems infuriated customers such as Chris Szarek, who has had five bad consoles: he felt Microsoft was stonewalling. But as production ramped, Microsoft sent replacement units out more quickly and dealt with those who were unhappy about the shortage. In September 2006 Microsoft conceded that the quality of the consoles made during 2005 wasn't as high as it expected and said that it would extend the policy of free replacement for consoles made during 2005, even though the warranties had expired. But what was actually wrong with the machines? In July 2007 Robbie Bach, president of Microsoft's entertainment and devices division, said of the launch that "we were confident the product was ready. We did a lot of testing. The problem that shows up with the three red lights on the console is a complex interaction with some very complex parts."There was no single reason for the failures - though many could be blamed on the graphics chip, which could overheat so much it warped the motherboard. This stressed bad solder joints, causing them to fail early in the machine's life - and the console was also one of the first products that had to meet new environmental standards in Europe prohibiting the use of lead in solder. Paul Wang, a Microsoft test engineer on the Xbox 360, said in a speech in 2007 that lead-free solder created a lot of problems.Wii takes the leadSometimes the heatsinks on top of the GPU were put on the wrong way, resulting in overheating. Games would sometimes crash because of sub-par memory chips from one of the two suppliers. Problems with the DVD drive lasted longer than expected. Eventually, in January last year, Microsoft shut down manufacturing of the console and didn't build any more machines until June.Early this year, SquareTrade, which sells warranties for electronics, reported that was seeing a 16.4% failure rate for Xbox 360s. Michael Pachter, an analyst at Wedbush Morgan, estimates that the number is 3m, about 15% of the total.In the meantime, Nintendo's Wii has outstripped rival consoles around the world, having sold some 35m machines since its launch at the end of 2006. Microsoft has sold about 22m Xbox 360s since its 2005 launch, while the Sony PS3, which came late to the party with a European launch in March 2007, has sold 16.6m consoles around the world.But is the war really lost? Shane Kim, head of the game division's business development efforts, recently said that it was too early to call the console war in favour of Nintendo. We won't know the winner, he says, until somebody sells 100m units. Microsoft's plan is to sell 75m Xbox 360s. The only way it could ever do that is to be more aggressive on its pricing. And by doing the right thing for its customers from now on.• A longer version of this article first appeared onVentureBeat.com
Eighteen months after American troops were banned from using a number of social networking websites, the Pentagon has unveiled its latest scheme to prevent classified material leaking onto the internet: TroopTube.The US military yesterday pulled back the curtains on its own version ofYouTube, which it hopes will satisfy both the demand from troops for communication with friends and family, and the Department of Defense's requirements for secrecy.TroopTube.tvsays it is "designed to help military families connect and keep in touch while miles apart".Users have to sign up by identifying themselves as military personnel – or a family member – before they can upload videos and share them.All videos placed on the system are screened by the Pentagon to make sure there is nothing that could threaten national security or that uses copyright-protected material.The system is being overseen byMilitary OneSource, a branch of the Department of Defense that specialises in supporting troops and their families.The move is the latest attempt to resolve a long-running conflict between Department of Defense officials, who want to reduce the costs and security threats associated with internet access, and troops on the ground, who want to use the web for communication and entertainment.Last May it emerged that the Pentagon had blocked access to a number of websites, including YouTube, MySpace and other social networking sites, on its computer networks.According to official Department of Defense documents, it was felt the sites not only threatened troop safety, but also placed an undue burden on the department's internet capacity."This recreational traffic impacts our official DoD network andbandwidth ability, while posing a significant operational securitychallenge," the department said in a memo at the time.The military has struggled to cope with a new generation who use social networking tools to share uncensored records of their life at war. In 2006 the Pentagon ordered troops to stop posting "trophy videos" – films shot as service mementoes – and attempted to close down or silence a number of blogs and messageboards run by active personnel.
After the results of theShow Us A Better Waycompetition - theX-Factor for web services(as I think I dubbed it) - now here's the letdown. Ordnance Survey has emailed local government organisations waving its copyright stick. And it's quite a big stick. One which, in effect, could prevent many - perhaps all? - of the SUABW winners (Free Our Data announcement;BBC announcement), and certainly those which might rely on local authority data that isin any way geographically related- from being implemented, certainly on Google Maps.Which would only leaveOS's own OpenSpace product. Which as you knowisn't for commercialor high-volume use - andif you plot data on it, the OS owns it. Which would rather complicate things.The OS, we've learnt, has circulated local government with a helpful Q+A about how they shouldn't embed info on Google Maps (or of course other mapping companies such as Microsoft or Yahoo or..) if it has been "derived" from OS data.Q I want to pass information I have captured, which has been derived from Ordnance Survey data, onto Google for Google to display on Google Maps. Can I do this?AAny use of Ordnance Survey data, or data derived from Ordnance Survey data, should be in accordance with the terms of your licence. You are only able to provide such data to a third party in limited circumstances, for example, to your contractor undertaking authority business on your behalf, and only provided that such contractor enters into a Contractor's Licence. (You should note that we believe the terms of the Contractor's Licence are wholly inconsistent with what we understand to be Google's standard terms and conditions.)Therefore, you cannot pass such information to Google for display on Google Maps, and we must remind you that provision of data to Google in this way would be in breach of Crown copyright.But what is "derived" from OS data? At local government level, pretty much anything if it relates to where something is.Q What constitutes data 'derived' from Ordnance Survey data?ASimply put, Ordnance Survey derived data is any data created using Ordnance Survey base data. For example, if you capture a polygon or a point or any other feature using any Ordnance Survey data, either in its data form or as a background context to the polygon/point/other feature capture, this would constitute derived data.It should also be borne in mind that data from other suppliers may be based on Ordnance Survey material, and thus the above considerations may still apply. We therefore recommend that you verify whether any third-party mapping you use may have been created in some way from Ordnance Survey data before displaying it on Google Maps.OK, then, how about another way of doing things? What if you run Google Maps and overlay info on top of that, rather than putting it "into" Gmaps?Q I want to pull Google Maps onto my system and host my Ordnance Survey derived business information on top, so that no data will pass to Google. Can I use this solution instead?ANo. Although you will not be passing any data directly to Google, by displaying such data on top of Google Maps in this way and making such mapping available to the public, it appears that you will be granting Google a licence to use such data. This is the case despite the fact that you will be hosting the data on your system. Google's terms and conditions appear to provide that any display of data on or through the Google services grants Google a perpetual, irrevocable, worldwide, royalty-free licence to reproduce, adapt, modify, translate, publish, publicly perform, publicly display and distribute such data.The terms of your licence do not permit you to license Ordnance Survey data to a third party in these circumstances.If you'd like a copy to marvel at, thendownload the PDF. (Provided as a public service.)Now, the OS is perfectly within its rights - indeed, it's asserting its rights, probably as required by its terms of business - to follow this.But as implemented it would make it impossible for local government organisations to make available any geographical data about locations of objects they own. (And just for clarification, Googledoes notlicense OS's data, not even through a third party. I'm sure I've heard phrases like "have to be a snowy day in hell first" but have no idea who said it.)That means that things likeschool catchment areas(if given to geographical accuracy, or pulled off an OS-based mapping system) orpostbox locations(if local government holds them) orrecycling locationsorcycling routesortoilets... gracious me, I seem to have listed the top five applications suggested for SUABW.Let's be clear, again: OS is perfectly within its rights to assert these rights. One can even argue that it's obliged to. But I suspect that it's not going to go down very well with ministers who have worked very hard to get the SUABW competition off the ground, and indeed into the stratosphere: let's name Tom Watson (Cabinet Office), Michael Wills (Ministry of Justice) and Jim Knight (Department for Education). And of course the Department for Communities and Local Government put up some prizemoney for the competition too. Which OS - which reports into CLG - seems now to be, um, tripping up.One could view this as a mistake. Or a political oversight. Or perhaps an attempt to force Whitehall, and in particular the Treasury, to decide whether it wants OS's rights to prevail, or those of ministers who want more openness. In any event, I think that it might be the first test forOS's new chair, Sir Rob Margetts, who as you'll recall isrequired- according to the job advert - tobe an experienced Chair who understands how to build commercial opportunities in the public sector and who has the intellect to take forward a challenging debate about Ordnance Survey's future strategy. S/he will have experience of change."Challenging debate". Hope your season ticket to London is up to date, Sir Rob.
Google already has a window into our souls through our internet searches and it now has insight into our ailing bodies too.The internet giant is using its vast database of individual search terms to predict the emergence of flu up to two weeks before government epidemiologists.Google Flu Trendsuses the tendency of people to seek online help for their health problems.By tracking searches for terms such as 'cough', 'fever' and 'aches and pains' it claims to be able to accurately estimate where flu is circulating.Google tested the idea in nine regions of the US and found it could accurately predict flu outbreaks between seven and 14 days earlier than the federal centres for disease control and prevention.Google hopes the idea could also be used to help track other diseases. Flu Trends is limited to the US.Jeremy Ginsberg and Matt Mohebb, two software engineers involved in the project, said: "Patterns in Google search queries can be very informative."In a blogpost on the project they wrote: "It turns out that traditional flu surveillance systems take one-two weeks to collect and release surveillance data but Google search queries can be automatically counted very quickly."By making our estimates available each day, Flu Trends may provide an early-warning system for outbreaks of influenza."They explained that private information health would be kept confidential. " Flu Trends can never be used to identify individual users because we rely on anonymised, aggregated counts of how often certain search queries occur each week."A paper on the project has been accepted by the respected journal Nature."This seems like a clever way of using data that is created unintentionally by the users of Google to see patterns in the world that would otherwise be invisible," Thomas Malone, a professor at the MIT Sloan school of management, told the New York Times.Alok Jha speaks to Jeremy Ginsberg, one of the engineers on the Google Flu Trends project
It might bethe end of the road for Mars Phoenix– the robotic vehicle that finally finished its five-month mission this week – but Nasa has already vowed to carry on the interplanetary dialogue.Phoenix made waves scientifically, confirming the existence of water ice onMarsand finding potential evidence of life. However, it also proved to be a watermark of a different kind, as Nasa officials used social networking websiteTwitterto send messages from the Martian surface.During its days on the red planet,Phoenix's Twitter accountattracted nearly 40,000 fans who listened out for news of discoveries.The widespread support that Phoenix received surprised and excited the team at Nasa's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California."The mission attracted far more followers than we ever expected and lasted longer than expected," said Veronica McGregor, the former CNN correspondent who now oversees public relations at JPL. "When I first set up the account, I intended to use it through landing day and maybe a day or two afterwards."Instead it became a sensation, with space fans keeping abreast of developments over the internet or on their mobile phones.McGregor said that the key seemed to be allowing people to get an inside view of one of Nasa's multimillion-dollar missions, and giving Phoenix a human voice."The followers seemed to appreciate having a source from inside a Nasa mission who could give them news and information and answer questions," she told the Guardian. "It was also helpful to be a bit playful on some of the posts and I suppose that is how the personality developed."It probably helped that the successful mission came shortly before the release in the US of Pixar's blockbuster robot movie Wall-E – which features an endearing little gizmo bumbling around on the surface of a harsh and unforgiving planet.But it was probably the Phoenix team's willingness to engage with the audience and use geek speak that cemented the robot's place in the hearts of the internet addicts who populate Twitter.On analysing Martian ice for the first time, for example,Phoenix twittered excitedly: "An ice-containing sample made it into the TEGA oven. I can now say I'm the first mission to Mars to touch and then * taste * the water. FTW!"Although it seems likely Phoenix has sent its last tweet, after it shut down as the cold Martian winter took hold, McGregor said Nasa has been bitten by the Twitter bug."We've started other Twitter feeds at JPL, and other Nasa centres have also started accounts for their missions," she said. "Personally, I'm continuing to post to @MarsRovers and I'll be starting @MarsScienceLab in the next few days. I'll post occasionally to @MarsPhoenix, too, with science updates and other news."
Gartner has just released provisional numbers for PC sales in Western Europe in the third quarter, and Taiwan's Acer has emerged as the biggest supplier, in terms of units. Asus, also from Taiwan, also did well.The European market grew by an impressive 24.3% to 17.2 million units, thanks to the popularity of cheap netbooks. The success of the Acer Aspire One helped Acer increase its shipments by 64.3% to 4.3 million units, giving it 25% of the market. Asus's shipments jumped 195.5% to 1.1 million units, putting it in fourth place, behind Hewlett-Packard (3.5m units) and Dell (2.0m units).Of course, since netbooks cost around £150-£300, the picture would be far less rosy in value terms. Indeed, given the decline in notebook PC prices -- you can now get Windows Vista notebooks for £250 -- some suppliers may be shipping more for less.Dell held on to the top spot in theUK market, shipping 708,000 units for a 20.6% market share. Acer increased its shipments by 60.9% to 651,000 units (18.9%) to take second place from Hewlett-Packard (18.7%), which saw shipments fall by 8.2%.Gartner analyst Ranjit Atwal says in the press release: "The roll-out of mini-notebooks has masked the weakness in the UK PC market. The demand in the professional market slowed down and vendors' margins continued to shrink as average selling prices fell by double digits again."InFrance, Acer led the way with 786,000 units shipped for a 27.6% market share. Asus was fourth, with shipments growing by 150.4% to 192,000. Toshiba was fifth.Acer also topped the list forGermany, with shipments up 91.8% to 702,000 units for a 20.9% market share. It was followed by Hewlett-Packard (13.0%), Fujitsu-Siemens (10.1%), Dell (9.4%) and Medion (6.9%), with Asus failing to place. I guess Medion's 58.8% growth was driven by Aldi sales of netbooks such as the E1210, which looks like a rebadged MSI Wind.Finally:Gartner predicts that the PC market will weaken going into the fourth quarter and 2009, even with the increase in shipments of mini-notebooks. "It is impossible for the PC market to avoid the negative impact that the macro-economic factors are having on both business and consumer markets," said Mr Atwal. "We expect organisations to keep their PCs longer and consumers to delay buying additional PCs for the household. This in turn will force a deeper price war and further consolidation in the marketplace."UK PC sales
Flip has caused a splash with its range pocketable video cameras, and now it has launchedan HD version of the Minowith 4GB of memory for $229.99. It's enough to shoot for an hour in 1280 x 720 widescreen in H.264 (MP4) format, where previous models used MPEG-4 avi. That is almost certainly more Mac-friendly (always depending on the H.264 profile used -- which isn't specified in Flip'sMino HD spec sheet).Flip also claims the Mino HD is "the first and only 'designable' HD camcorder," but at the moment, it seems to be in any colour you like as long as it's black.It's another very simplified product -- fixed focus lens, no optical zoom, no SD slot and so on -- but it's designed for point-and-shoot use, not for filming the next Bond movie. (You'd want at least aSony TG3 Handycamfor that. It does 1920 x 1080 and has a 10x zoom.)The obvious rival is the Kodak Zi6 (£130), which we just compared with the Flip Mino inTechnophile. The Zi6 has a higher spec but the Flip is smaller and more usable.The drawback for UK users is that we have no idea when the Mino HD will arrive, and the US version has NTSC, not PAL, for the TV output.
