Looking like a professor and dressing like a character from Grand Theft Auto, Will Wright is in an understandably buoyant mood. He's the name behind not one, but two, massive PC franchises: SimCity and The Sims, both created with his California-based games development studio Maxis. And now he's on the verge of launching The Sims 2 - which could eclipse all before it.With seven expansion packs, a console franchise and upcoming spin-off series The Urbz, Maxis has had a lot of practice in gearing up for The Sims 2. Nevertheless, when you're talking about creating a follow-up to The Sims, you're effectively talking about trying to write a new chapter in gaming history. This is a title that has become the best-selling PC game of all time."The level of technology that The Sims 2 exhibits from the original Sims is amazing to me, especially as a gamer," enthuses Wright, who views the game as much through the eyes of a player as a designer."With the original Sims, we didn't really know what we were doing, we were just throwing darts and happened to hit a bullseye. This time it feels like we have a much clearer understanding of what the players like, what kind of stories they were projecting into the game and how much of themselves they were putting in. I think we've nailed the really important parts."But chasing virtual dreams isn't all that interests him.Several years ago, Wright's love of robotics and artificial intelligence (AI) caused him to start the Stupid Fun Club with Marc Thorpe, the creator of the US Robot Wars series, and fellow robot builder Mike Winter."We bonded because we were the only two contestants who had brought their kids to the show. Our daughters were the same age and we used to make robots with them. My first robot was Juliebot, a wedge-shape robot with a doll's head on top that talked and would say things like 'Oh this is fun, let's have a party!' in the middle of the arena. It was quite goofy, but it was the only robot that could be interviewed!"Now Wright's Stupid Fun Club is dedicated to exploring the boundaries of the way humans interact with robots and respond to AI. His eyes light up when he talks about how the club has created many life-sized robots and taken them into the local town of Berkeley. In one experiment, they built a robot that looked like it had been knocked over by a car and then put it on the footpath, where it would plead for help from passersby."Almost all the women got really creeped out by it and would walk away really fast. The men would ignore the talking and start stripping it for parts!" he explains."The only people to help it were the mixed gender couples. They would come over, pick it up, converse with it and try to reset it. I found it amazing   that the women seemed to invest too much soul into it and it scared them, whereas the men invested no soul in it and tried to take it apart. I'm really interested in seeing how people relate to intelligent machines, it helps with the way I design games."It has certainly paid off, because AI is something that The Sims 2 has in spades. It is also undeniable that sales of the title will likely be huge, since it is one of the few games over the past five years to have successfully captured a mainstream audience. Despite this, the franchise is regarded as an annoyance by many hardcore gaming enthusiasts. With its continuous domination of the PC charts, the series rankles them like the relentlessly enthusiastic, popular kid with the DayGlo smile, bringing homemade Soya flapjacks to a Dungeons and Dragons meeting.A hardcore gamer himself, Wright can understand some of the backlash. At the same time, however, he welcomes the idea of creating more of a mainstream appeal for games."I think it's almost a class thing. They know that the people that are into The Sims aren't hardcore gamers, yet they've invaded their world and filled up the message boards," he explains."I like the idea that our industry is becoming more of a mass market and bringing in a lot of players who don't normally play games and don't have the traditional gaming history. I think hardcore players almost see it as 'Oh look, there goes the neighbourhood'. But gaming is going from being a very hobbyist activity into a really casual thing that my mother or sister might play. It's a cultural revolution."
After the fanfare at E3, when it was announced that EA games would finally be playable on the Xbox Live online system, the first UK title has run into problems. The generally wonderful Burnout 3 has had all sorts of issues, from connectivity to crashing. This is made even worse by the fact that Live is generally a highly polished service. It looks like EA's decision to force gamers to play on their servers, rather than Microsoft's, is the problem. Readherefor more...
All prices, all formats1Burnout 3: Takedown2Conflict: Vietnam3Shellshock: Nam '674Second Sight5Spider-Man 26The Simpsons: Hit and Run7Driv3r8Need for Speed: Underground9Fifa 200410Shrek 2Source: Elspa, compiled by Chart Track
It has been claimed we are just six contacts away from anyone in the world. This "six degrees of separation" indicates how powerful person-to-person networking can be when the right connections are made. But could computers work in a similar way? Could we harness enormous power by linking thousands of computers across the world?Yes, say the proponents of grid computing, the buzzword to describe huge virtual networks of computers, which is gradually becoming part of the IT landscape.Grid computing is, in essence, a form of distributed computing that coordinates and shares processing power, applications, data, storage or networked resources from multiple linked computers.This month's launch of the first permanent worldwide grid for science experimentation was the latest milestone in the march of the technology. Known as the Large Hadron Collider computing grid (LHC), it links 78 sites in various countries for research into particle physics.The LHC will process 15 petabytes of data per year - the equivalent of 7% of all printed matter worldwide. Its developers plan to expand it to 100,000 computers by 2007.But the big question for the computing industry is how quickly and effectively can grid computing be applied to business? Can what works for academic research become a commercial option? The advantages are clear: access to huge computing power using thousands of ordinary computers; and availability across a wide geographic area. By sharing   resources, huge savings are possible. The grid also gives support to the idea that computing resources could be accessed like gas or electricity.But, there remain issues of protocols and standards for how such systems work. There are also sensitive commercial issues concerning how you parcel out and charge for processing jobs, and how secure a shared system can be.There are also concerns about reliability: while academics can work around periods where a grid is unavailable, commercial applications often rely on non-stop availability.Commercial applications can be found in reservoir modelling in the oil industry, structural analysis in aerospace and circuit simulation in electronics. However, an impact beyond such large-scale science projects has yet to materialise.Although grid computing is being heavily promoted by the likes of IBM, Sun Microsystems, Hewlett-Packard and Oracle, some believe that commercial applications are scaled-down versions of the real thing."We are at a very significant moment in the development of grid computing," says Dr Mark Parsons, commercial director of the National e-Science Centre (NeSC). "The commercial development is much more conservative and tends to be made up of clusters of computers within an organisation. A real grid is greater than that. The next two years will determine how commercial the grid concept can become."Parsons believes the UK has a global leadership position in developing grids partly thanks to a five-year (2001-2006) government investment of &#163;230m for grid computing.Funding has enabled Edikt (the e-Science Data, Information and Knowledge Transformation Centre) to develop its Eldas software, which enables the use of a grid to extract data from incompatible databases - for example, when two firms merge."This gives business the chance to leapfrog competitors by transforming their ability to extract and analyse data across an organisation," he says.Meanwhile, the European Union has just allocated a &euro;52m (&#163;35m) grant package for 12 grid research projects with the expressed aim of pulling grid computing beyond   research labs and into industry.Mark Blowers, a senior research analyst at Butler Group, believes we are seeing the first steps of a new technology: "It's early days. The fact is for a commercial application you have to do a lot of upfront work in terms of software development. That's alright for very large companies but too costly for many others."Alastair McAulay, a senior consultant on the PA Consulting Innovation Team, which recently carried out research into the commercial viability of grid computing for the Department of Trade and Industry, says that applications are limited. "For the moment, it's going to be niche applications. A lot depends on how companies feel about their data moving beyond their own organisations. In finance, for example, they cannot take the risk, but in engineering there are clear applications that give greater processing power and make use of downtime."Perhaps most interestingly, one of the conclusions of PA's research is that government IT systems could benefit most. "Some areas of government could well lead the field, for example in identity verification, where currently information is held in a number of databases. It could be very helpful in getting government departments to share data," says McAulay.Many predict this sharing of resources will hold back big business because it goes against the grain. "It needs a cultural change because there are often silos of data in an organisation, and there can be organisational resistance to sharing processing power and data," says Philippe Bricard, of IBM grid computing in Europe.
What can digital audio broadcasting (DAB) give us that analogue radio can't?We're marketing it as a "lifestyle" product so we're not aiming it at computer geeks, because they make up about 1% of the market. The main thing DAB does is that all the stations are there for you - you turn it on and it auto-tunes all the stations and puts them in alphabetical order. It saves you having to remember frequencies. The DAB computer inside the radio then allows the broadcaster to give you text information that scrolls along the display. At the moment, it's still quite simple, but that's because new   technology for most people is a scary prospect. DAB can do a huge amount but why make it more complicated until people understand it? So, for now, the broadcasters restrict information to things such as the weather and who's going to win Big Brother.Do you see DAB evolving to bring us more information?It has to dramatically increase in market penetration first. Prices have to come down. There's a huge amount of things you can do currently - for example, the electronic programming guide you get with Sky Digital could be done on a DAB radio but it would cost &#163;300. That's not mass market. Features such as clickable listings and movable pictures of favourite bands will be possible. People have been talking about being able to pause and rewind live radio but you can only rewind your radio five minutes without having to put   a special card into it. People just want to turn their radios on and listen to Britney or whoever, they don't want to mess around with memory cards.Has broadband played a big part in the renaissance of radio?The "always on" connection of broadband has made a big difference. Because we're a technology company I've had broadband, and previously ISDN, for around six years. You don't have to wait for anything any more. I'm pretty hopeless technically so I just expect it to be on and working.Will spammers be able to infiltrate DAB?It is conceivably possible for companies to advertise through your radio but broadcasters would be in control of that. If broadcasters think people are switching off because of what they're putting down that DLS (Dynamic Label Segment), then they're    not going to do it. I think DAB has regulated things hugely. If you look at the FM spectrum, there's no more space for minority radio stations so, for example, DAB can let you have Panjab Radio (&lt;A HREF="http://www.panjabradio.co.uk""&gt;www.panjabradio.co.uk), which can specifically target its audience. So, far from it being a spam-medium, I think it might actually be a better-targeted advertising medium.Gadgets?I'm really keen to get aBlackBerryas it is GPRS, so it'll work on a beach in Lanzarote. I'd also love one of the Trilobite automatic vacuum cleanerswww.electrolux.com/node613.asp. I love what Apple has done with the iPod, as products really have to look good and be easy to use.Bernadette Spofforth's bookmarkswww.intempo-digital.co.ukwww.tesco.comwww.amazon.co.ukwww.mirror.co.ukwww.boden.co.uk
"Microsoft published on Tuesday a patch for a major security flaw in its software's handling of the JPEG graphics format and urged customers to use a new tool to locate the many applications that are vulnerable," reportsCNet"The critical flaw has to do with how Microsoft's operating systems and other software process the widely used JPEG image format and could let attackers create an image file that would run a malicious program on a victim's computer as soon as the file is viewed. Because the software giant's Internet Explorer browser is vulnerable, Windows users could fall prey to an attack just by visiting a Web site that has affected images. "At the same time;"Microsoft Internet Explorer is continuing to lose share in the browser market, as its much-smaller competitors chisel at its dominant position, new Web site visitor data shows," reportsEweek"Microsoft's browser has dropped by 1.8 percentage points over the past three months to 93.7 percent of the market, according to data provided Wednesday by Web analytics vendor WebSideStory Inc. "Comment:The constant surprise about IE - well, it used to be a surprise, anyway - is that it is losing just 1% market share a month in the face of these vast flaws.A few days ago I reported Intel's"death of the internet"claims . The system couldn't take it and the web might collapse, they warned. But on a far more immediate level, something like this browser weakness has far more potential to trash the internet.
Today the firstGames for Health Conferencekicks off in Madison, Wisconsin, entertaining at least 100 delegates on the use of computer gaming in health education and healthcare.This comes in a timely fashion, days afterJoystiqreported a a survey of 2,100 parents and teachers which found that playing Pokemon helps children learn "important values and skills", including hand-eye coordination, social interaction and lateral thinking.Before you make jibes about pick-ups or re-spawning, head to conference organisersSerious Gamesto see what kinds of positive things can come from interactive entertainment. Highlights include dealing with phobias with off-the-shelf gaming entertainment, developing biofeedback systems with gaming technologies,GlucoBoy, a Game Boy-based product to encourage kids with diabetes to control their blood sugar and a presentation by Dr. James Rosser, the sugeon who'sstudyat the Beth Israel Medical Center in New York suggested that daily gameplay (onSuper Monkey Ballin this instance) has a positive effect on the ability to perform keyhole surgery.While conferences like this one are fantastic and emphasise the breadth of goodness that can come from gaming, one niggling concern with suggesting that people can learn positive things from the PlayStation is that – rightly or wrongly – some might use this information as an excuse to extrapolate a counter-argument. However, throwing more constructive findings into the limelight should help to eventually readdress the public's view about computer gaming.
BTG, the privatised former British Technology Group, is suing online retailersAmazon.comandBarnesandNoble.comover their use of online marketing technology that the UK firm says it owns.The way online booksellers track their internet advertising and work out which advertisements direct the most traffic to sites such as Amazon is breaching the terms of two patents owned by BTG, the company alleges.BTG takes technology from universities and companies and tries to commercialise it. It obtained the patents for a system to monitor marketing from an American firm, Infonautics, in 2002."The technology allows Amazon to measure the effectiveness of its ad campaigns," said a BTG spokesman. "It's quite valuable to them in terms of their business processes."BTG had tried to strike a deal with the firms to license the intellectual property but could not agree terms. The lawsuit was filed in a court in Delaware and names two other small firms, Netflix and Overstock.com.BTG is seeking an injunction against the future use of the technology. It has not revealed the amount of the damages it is seeking, but a spokesman said the amount was large enough to be significant to the business. It says it hopes the issue will be resolved quickly and suggests it may be settled out of court.This is the second time this year that the company - which is valued at &#163;207m on the stock market - has sued large American multinationals. It launched a lawsuit against Microsoft and Apple over technology that controls the way firms launch pop-up ads to give information about software upgrades. BTG said this litigation is likely to take several years.BTG was privatised in 1992 and floated in 1995. It is the product of the merged government agencies, the National Enterprise Board and the National Research and Development Council.The latter has a history dating back more than 50 years. Since privatisation the company has only once made a profit and that was less than &#163;1m.BTG suffered a setback last year when its Varisolve treatment for varicose veins was held up by American regulators.Amazon said it did not comment on pending litigation. Barnes &amp; Noble did not return calls for comment.BTG shares rose 3% to close at 140p yesterday.
Swansea has seen the future and it's out of order. An ambitious plan to modernise the city's services around IT has become the focus for a nasty confrontation between council managers and staff.About 100 IT workers have been on strike since mid-August. Today, the public services union, Unison, will ballot its members among the council about further action, with the result announced on October 1. The spectre looms of rubbish piling up in the streets, and bodies left unburied.The dispute is not a 1970s throwback, though, and not only because the strikers' websitewww.swansea-ict.org.ukhas taken the place of picket-line braziers. (The council's side of the story is atwww.swansea.gov.uk.) Rather, it   could be a preview of things to come.In Swansea, the row concerns an e-initiative called service@swansea. The IT staff say they support it, but not the way it's being handled. The general idea, as pioneered at English authorities, is that a new organisation takes over the council's outward-facing operations, invests some money in new IT and runs better services more cheaply. It trousers the difference and everyone is happy.Savings come from replacing expensive mainframes, together with reducing the need for office space and, eventually, staff. The amount saved is based largely on the extent of previous inefficiencies: the worse the basket-case, the richer the pickings. Listen to some IT services companies talking about the "win-win-win" formula and it sounds   like the Philosopher's Stone.But you can't blame employees for feeling rattled, especially when the council sets out to procure an IT supplier without telling the staff first. This is what happened in Swansea: the council has apologised, and says no decision has been taken about outsourcing jobs.Other public bodies would be advised to learn from Swansea's mistake. This week, the Office of Public Services Reform, part of the Cabinet Office, published a call for more involvement by unions and employees in the reform of public services. The paper, produced by the Public Service Forum, examines 10 case studies of modernisation from the NHS, local and central government. It concludes that, so long as staff are given an "evidence-based case for reform", and properly involved in the process, they will cooperate.   "Involvement in developing policy is a key driver of job satisfaction and commitment."It cites examples from successful modernisation projects, such as the implementation of self-rostering at a hospital and the reorganisation of Leeds City Council's revenue service. Both involved the enthusiastic adoption of new IT and new ways of working.Both seem miles from Swansea. A few weeks ago, I said in this column that the dispute seemed to be moving towards a solution. Wrong: it has worsened considerably. The council has brought in contractors to run systems, which, says the union, involves allowing unsupervised access to the child protection register. The tone of language on both sides now suggests an autumn, at least, of discontent.Trade union and employee involvement in public service reformwww.cabinet-office.gov.uk
What does your mouse say about you? Mine says that I am a practical, down-to-earth person who only cares about price/ performance. However, for around &#163;40, I could turn myself into a sophisticated user of high-end technology, or, more interestingly, into an expressive or possibly artistic type.If you hadn't realised your choice of mouse was so revealing, that may be because you have not talked to Ken Fry, the industrial design group director in Microsoft's hardware division. Fry explained that the division had three types of target customer - practical, sophisticated, and expressive.The news is that Microsoft has just started selling the first "designer mouse" targeted at the expressive user. It's the cute S+arck Optical Mouse from French design guru Philippe Starck. As Starck himself told me - and another 90 European journalists, guests at Microsoft's Paris office - "It's not high technology, it's just heart, love, tenderness."Fry's explanation came as something of a relief. Microsoft is very comprehensible as a company because there is usually a direct connection between what it does and its bottom line: profit. For a moment, I'd wondered whether some of Gates's merry men had lost the plot. But the S+arck mouse makes perfect sense if you think of it as Microsoft branching out into a new, untapped market, though it remains to be seen how big it is. Well, apart from Mac users - one of Microsoft's product demonstrators told me it was perfect for them.Either way, it is a characteristic of technology markets that, as they grow, they support a greater diversity of products, each one specialised for a particular niche. (Darwin explained this type of speciation perfectly, albeit in a different context.)And one big advantage of speciation is that it enables manufacturers to sell us multiple versions of the same thing. For example, instead of buying one grandfather clock that will outlast several generations, you can have a kitchen wall clock, a radio alarm clock, and lots of different watches for different uses, or to go with different outfits.Thus the watch industry has become a fashion business - apart from a handful of watch technol ogy nerds whose opinions don't matter. The peripherals business may be heading the same way.It's tough selling people new products when they already have something that works. However, I can now see that rather than using the cheap and fairly nasty mouse that came bundled with my PC, I need an advanced, ergonomic, cordless optical mouse for desktop use, one of Microsoft's neat little wireless mice for my ThinkPads, and a S+arck for my iBook. Maybe.Still, whether or not you like the look of Starck's illuminated mouse, he was a good choice for Microsoft: he's not just one of the world's top designers, he's the one who talks loudest about what he calls design's "dark side - elitism".He says: "If you have a good idea, you have a duty to duplicate it, to make it available for everybody."Hardware as art: S+arck mousewww.microsoft.com/hardware/mouseandkeyboard/philippestarck.mspxPhilippe Starckwww.philippe-starck.net
Upgrade or not?I have, until now, upgraded my computer every five years. Should I make minor upgrades to my current machine - a Dell Dimension with a 700MHz Pentium 3 - and wait for Longhorn in 2006, or should I get my new machine with XP in February and hope it has five years' of support life in it?John CopleyJack Schofield replies:Microsoft is now committed to supporting operating systems for 10 years: this will probably be longer than it makes sense to keep the hardware. Also, I don't think there is any point in worrying about Longhorn until it appears, probably in two or more years. Even then, Longhorn will not make XP obsolete, because Microsoft recently decided it will release some of its key features for XP, too. This should mean XP's useful life extends from 2001 until at least 2008. In any case, the operating system may not be the critical factor in a PC upgrade: usually it is the need for new hardware features such as a faster processor, larger hard drive, a DVD drive, USB 2 ports, Firewire, or whatever. You could certainly upgrade your current PC to run XP by adding more memory: you need at least 128MB, but 256MB or more is preferred. However, upgrading a five-year-old machine will probably cost more than it's worth, bearing in mind that 2.6GHz Dell Dimensions running XP now go for &#163;200-&#163;250 on eBay.Of course, whether you need a new PC depends on what you do with it, how reliable it is, and how you cost your time. If it is still doing what you   bought it to do, why change it? If you are taking up video editing or want to play Doom 3, get a new PC as soon as possible.Notebook choiceI want to buy a reasonably priced (sub &#163;1,000) laptop that is highly portable and Wi-Fi compatible with very good battery life. However, most small portables also tend to be high end, and expensive.Ave WrigleyJS:Most cheap notebooks are built using cheap desktop parts, and building smaller, lighter machines costs a lot more. However, the price of notebooks based on Intel's Centrino platform has come down a bit, and you can now get a Toshiba Portege A100 (2.2kg) for around &#163;900. Taking a kilogram off the weight can easily add &#163;600 to the price. Try searching on the numerous options atwww.laptopshop.co.uk/new-laptops-notebooks. Notebook specifications change rapidly and you can often get an older model for less.Saving an iPodI have to send my iPod to Apple to get the battery replaced, and my concern is all the music and other data will be lost. I haven't enough space on my laptop to transfer across all my MP3s and I don't want to re-rip all my CDs. Is there an online hard drive I can use as temporary storage?Stuart PJS:Apple's website says: "Your songs and files will not be transferred to your replacement iPod. Please back-up important files, and remove all data from your iPod before sending it to Apple." One option is to copy them from your laptop to CD or DVD, which may mean splashing out on an external USB 2 or Firewire-connected CD or DVD writer. But at least you will have a back-up of your files if your iPod is lost, stolen or breaks. Another is to buy an external hard drive, which will be much quicker and    easier, and will also allow you to back up your laptop. Although you could use online storage space, it will be tedious uploading and downloading all the files, unless you have a very fast internet connection. However, Lycos UK has just launched a "virtual drive" service. Lycos Max offers 100MB for &#163;1.99 per month, whileLycos Personalprovides 1GB and your own domain name for &#163;3.49 per month.  You could also look atStreamload.X-ray threatI've been told laptop computers and their disks must not be passed through airport security scanners or their operating programs may be deleted.Su ReaderJS:This is not true: I've put lots of notebook and handheld computers through X-ray scanners without encountering problems. However, there may be a risk that, if you don't keep your eyes open, someone may run off with your machine.Backchat&#183;Last week, Oliver Hulme asked if it was worth buying a 1Mbps broadband connection even though his village only has a 512kbps exchange. Jamil Shehadeh adds: "Although Oliver Hulme will not benefit from quicker downloads if he opts for the 1Mbps line, he will be able to upload at 256kbps as opposed to 128kbps of the 512kbps service. However, if I was in his position, I would only take the 512 option."&#183;Gerald Ramshaw was looking for a replacement for his oft-repaired Psion 5mx. Amis Goldingham points out that Clove Technology still sells Psions. These may be new, reconditioned or remanufactured. Seewww.clove.co.uk.
The Sims 2PC, &#163;39.99 Maxis/EA,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The sequel to the biggest selling PC game ever is here and it is an absolute treat. As before, this is all about taking control of your own Sims, building them a home, finding them a job and showing them how to clean up.But The Sims 2 takes the concept to the next level. This time you direct your Sims over their lifetime, from baby to "senior", and can pass on their genes to future generations. This lifetime attachment is also expressed by aspirations and fears.Players still have to hold their Sim's hand to wash up or shower, but these elements have been downgraded in place of deeper concerns. So younger Sims may want to be read to, and not be shouted at; older Sims may want to attract the eye of a handsome neighbour or avoid being discovered by their wife while cheating with the maid.The vastly improved graphics, which let you zoom in on your characters, show off the full range of new expressions and, more importantly, make you really care about your Sim.Whereas before an upset Sim would seem a vaguely comic matter, it becomes a pressing issue when viewed up close. And that's the key: you do care about your Sims, especially when they age and (sob) die.Throw in an even more comprehensive house design and decorating function, a game-in-itself Sim creation section, and the ability to record movies and you have a fantastic achievement. The Sims 2 has raised the gaming bar.Greg HowsonEvil GeniusPC, &#163;34.99 Elixir Studios/VU Games,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;"Everybody wants to rule the world," sang Tears for Fears. Nearly 20 years later, Elixir Studios turns that statement into virtual reality in Evil Genius, a game where players assume the role of a Bond-style villain on the rocky path to world domination.Being an evil dictator takes hard work. You'll have to recruit a horde of minions to build up a base, while your evil avatar spends time practising a maniacal laugh. With your base established, you have to ensure your operations go global.This means using your control room - the hub of your evil empire - to gain information from around the world. Then you will be able to train the minions and send them out on special acts of infamy, which include capturing hostages, stealing loot and generally causing havoc.As your plans start to succeed, you attract the attention of nations, which will try to thwart your plans with spies and agents. Fiendish traps and torture devices are needed.Evil Genius has a tongue-in-cheek sense of humour that permeates the gameplay, and it's packed with details and well-constructed missions.Rhianna PratchettConflict: VietnamPlayStation 2, Xbox, PC, &#163;39.99 Pivotal/SCi,&#42;&#42;&#42;The rivalry between publishers is illustrated by the arrival of the latest Vietnam-set instalment of the impressive Conflict series of third-person shoot-'em-ups, hot on the heels of Eidos's Shellshock Nam '67.For those who have been thrown into a sea of indecision, fear not. Conflict: Vietnam is easily the superior. But even so, it is far from perfect. Sensibly, it takes a squad-based approach: you control a team of four men undertaking a series of increasingly hairy missions, amid an accurate rendition of the hell that was the Vietnam war. It offers plenty of opportunities for hard-bitten digitised video scene-setting influenced by films such as Apocalypse Now.The series' perfectly honed squad-control system provides the high point: switching between players is wonderfully intuitive and easily performed even if you are under fire, and the ability to heal squad members at death's door is handy. The missions are varied and believable, and avoid the trap of side-stepping the horror of the war. The console versions sport a handy targeting system that snaps to the nearest enemy, which is essential, since the more accurate shooting view, with gun held up to your eye, is unusable.A huge gun combines with an annoyingly low third-person view, which means you can rarely see oncoming enemies. This is a surprising flaw, given that Pivotal has made several Conflict games. At least the game has a highly appealing cooperative multiplay option. However, Conflict: Vietnam is not an essential purchase.Steve Boxer&#183;Keep up with the latest from the world of games with our Gamesblog, atguardian.co.uk/games
When penning a letter the rules are simple: address in the left hand corner, and a lower case "s" in "Yours sincerely".But in the age of email, now our most common form of communication, research has revealed that thousands are endangering their businesses and relationships by consistently breaking email etiquette.The survey found that blitzing - regarded as "like being spammed by your colleagues" - sloppy grammar, tactless comments and waffling all caused consternation. Ignoring an email, presuming it had been seen by the recipient, and denying it was received also raised fury in the victim.When it comes to plain deceit, however, British users are the most prolific.The survey of 750 office workers in the UK, France, Germany, Spain and Italy showed that 11% of Britons admitted denying receipt of emails, much higher than the Spaniards (4%), the French and Italians (3%), and the Germans (1%).The British also showed the least concern about having to chase up emails: only 13% said   they bothered to reply, compared with 60% in Italy.The survey, commissioned by the smart phone developers palmOne, found that 81% admitted having negative feelings towards the sender when they noticed bad spelling or disconnected arguments in an email.Such behaviour breeds distrust, according to the psychologist and communications expert Dr Peter Collett.Dr Collett, formerly of the department of experimental psychology at Oxford University said people were obsessive about email; 62% felt the need to see a message as soon as it had arrived, but many did not realise their response had the potential to affect business performance, he said.With person-to-person messages expected to exceed 36bn per day by next year, he said it was important to always acknowledge receipt of a message within 24 hours.Other tips include avoiding casual comments and humour, which was more often than not misconstrued.The best responses, he said, are received by those who wrote in a tone that errs on the formal side.
Following a request from Leicester East MP Keith Vaz, Tony Blair has stepped into the "Manhunt" violent videogame debate,declaringthat the game is unsuitable for children. Of course, we would have added that it is a load of old tosh as well. But clearly the main issue here is kids playing underage games. LuckilyELSPA, the games industry trade association, have done their job and briefed the PM accordingly, ensuring no knee-jerk reaction. ELPSA's self certification seems to be safe for now.
As I was on my way to Austin I took the time to read gamespot's excellentarticleabout the relationship between academia and games. It's a topical topic, with the new crop of students heading for the halls of learning and labour. Indeed, if you want something to inspire you back into further education, check out Dr. Edward Castronova'sproposed seminar schedulefor the Topical Seminar in Media and Society: Virtual Worlds at the University of Indiana. I particularly like the reading list.Man, why didn't they offer this at my school?In honour of the beginning of the school year, gamesblog grabbedGonzalo Frasca, one of the leaders of the game studies community, at the recentAcademic Dayat London'sGame Developer's Conference-Europe. He is based at theIT University of Copenhagenand also co-runs the political games development companyPowerful Robot Games. He andDr. Ian Bogostwere commissioned last year to make the first political party-funded game,Dean for Iowa. Some of their titles are pretty effective; check outSeptember 12thfor a good example of how games can inspire deep thinking and moral thought. (requires Shockwave)Frasca also runsLudology.org, a blog of resources for the games studies community.How much has your academic background influenced the games that you design?Totally. My thesis was on political videogames, and two years later I was making a political video game for the American election. I think I would have made quite a different game if I hadn't spent two years thinking about it and the issues involved. I'm not saying it would have been better or worse, but this project even caught me off guard. I think my academic background gave me confidence and energy to go and talk to politicians about making a game.What is it about the current cultural and social climate that allows people to get Games Studies PhDs?Well, there's money in videogames firstly, and at the end of the day that appeals. People who grew up with games are now getting older. They know games aren't going to drive them nuts or make them kill their friends or anything. People have been moved by games, they have made friends because of games, so goodbye bias!How do people who consider games to be "just for kids" respond to you as a grown man who studies them?In general, I don't know. I've been able to make a living making games in a very poor country so I guess I got some respect out of that. I'm not that stupid after all. Personally I haven't felt much rejection over the past couple of years. Before that I was kind of ashamed to say I studied videogames. Now I don't have a problem at all.People who are not familiar with games have a bias. Many games are crappy. There's a lot of reasons to hate many games, but there are also many great games.What kinds of things do people study?The breadth is enormous. They study all kinds of things: politics, social issues, psychological issues, aesthetics – what does it mean to have beautiful gameplay, or more abstract ideas – and of course that's from the non-game development side of things. On that end you have engineering, physics, 3D modelling. People also study them within the context of health issues and how games modify your body. I'm really worried that this may give a Microsoft executive who has no idea what makes a good game tools for refusing a game because it doesn't generate enough saliva. That's the kind of things they find. Thankfully, I haven't had to deal with business people like that yet.Games studies conferences are the only interactive entertainment-related conferences where there's a queue for the ladies' loo. Would you say that proportionately more women study games, and is this representative of the research community?My supervisor wasJanet Murray, and she's one of the best known people in the field. In our centre we just hired a new PhD woman yesterday. I'm not sure if we're 50/50, but if we're not we're 60/40.There're plenty of women I know who do great research. It might be a great thing to have an academic field starting from scratch now so at least you don't have to drag in the politics from before.Why do you think industry can learn from academia and vice versa?There's this fear from industry towards academia and this arrogance from academia towards industry, but it's technically it's changing. To the people in the industry who have strong feel against academia, I say there's nothing wrong with Homer or Shakespeare, but these people have been dead forever so wouldn't you rather, if you had to go to school again, study Zelda at school? It's the academics who are going to make this possible. If you want your kids to go to school and learn about Miyamoto and Will Wright that's how it works. It can't be bad.On the other hand, the academics have no idea how hard and how complicated it is to make and ship a product. And as the industry grows older, designers may enjoy doing some part time teaching. In that way, it's a collaboration.
"Amazon.com, the e-commerce giant, plans to take aim at the Internet search king Google with an advanced technology that the company says will take searches beyond mere retrieval of Web pages to let users more fully manage the information they find," reportsthe New York Times"A9.com, a start-up owned by Amazon, said... the service will offer users the ability to store and edit bookmarks on central server computer, keep track of each link clicked on previous visits to a Web page, and even make personal "diary" notes on those pages for viewing on subsequent visits."Amazon's entry into the search engine wars will certainly raise the stakes in an already heated battle for control of what is believed to be the high ground in Internet commerce and advertising."Comment:It's a brave move from Amazon, and possibly shows the next move in the dotcom wars: after craze, crash and consolidation, we have competition: where established web giants take each other on for each other's turf.Although the firm said the service would launch overnight, at the time of writing thisthe site doesn't seem to exist. It will be intriguing to see what it's like.
The Office of Fair Trading is to investigate the pricing policy of Apple's iTunes digital music store after a leading consumer group complained it was charging customers 17% more to download tracks in the UK than in the rest of Europe.The Consumers Association, which publishes Which?, said today it had asked the OFT to investigate the difference in price."There appears to be considerable evidence that the iTunes set-up is prejudiced against the UK public and distorts the very basis of the single market. If the OFT agrees it will be another example of the rip-off culture that the British public are often victims of," the group said in a statement.In continental Europe Apple charges 99 euros per track while in the UK the price is 79p. Bolstered by the popularity of the iPod, the digital music player that has helped kickstart the digital music revolution, the European store has already sold more than 5 million tracks since launching in June.In the US, where tracks are priced at 99 cents each, the iTunes music store has a 70% market share and has already sold more than 100 million tracks in just over a year.Apple has dismissed the charges, saying that CDs are also more expensive in the UK than they are in the US and in continental Europe."The underlying economic model in each country has an impact on how we price our track downloads. That's not unusual. Look at the price of CDs in the US versus the UK. We believe the real comparison to be made is with the price of other track downloads in the UK," the computer maker said in a statement.But advocates of digital downloading will point to the fact that while CDs are physical objects that have to be manufactured and shipped, digital files cost exactly the same price to deliver anywhere.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
As mobile phones become more and more sophisticated, our expectations of the games that appear on them are increasing too. But should they be? Are some developers guilty of trying to squeeze too much out of a currently limited platform? We asked Phil Marley, who has designed both mobile phone and console games atKuju Entertainment, to come up with ten rules for better mobile game design.If you've ever found yourself getting frustrated with unfriendly controls, rickety level design or poor responsiveness after downloading the latest console to mobile conversion, read on…Phones aren't built for playing games onThe developer's dream of a handset with GameBoy Advance-quality shoulder buttons and a proper D-pad remains just a dream. Most handsets have small, cramped buttons that are awkward to get at. Many don't respond if you press more than one button at once (which means a gameplay staple - the running jump - needs careful thought). Keep the number of controls down, especially in a fast action game.Players aren't gamersNow that everyone and their dog has a mobile, the chances of your latest title being downloaded by someone who's never played a video game before - on any platform - becomes quite high. Don't assume any knowledge, and include a tutorial level to teach the basics so that the player doesn't have to wade through pages of instructions.Players get distractedMake pausing easy - and ideally, make it possible to drop out of the game completely and return to pick up where you left off. Mobile gamers have distractions that console gamers don't - reaching their stop on a train, talking to a friend, shuffling past someone on the tube. It's okay to punish players for looking away from the screen, but make sure that they never have to retrace their steps for more than ten or twenty seconds.Short and fun wins over long and dullNo-one expects to get 30 hours of gameplay from a mobile phone game. Given a set budget, it's far better to deliver a high-quality three hour experience than a poor ten hour one. Include secret levels and unlockables for practised gamers who will complete it in an hour - reward them for replaying. Be realistic - players only have a limited amount of space on their phones and games get swapped in and out just as ringtones do - they're disposable. Remember, if a player's only playing for five minutes a day, even two hours of gameplay will last for over three weeks, by which point the player's ready for something new.The development world has changedWhen arcade games on a mobile became viable, everyone raided eighties arcade machines for ideas, and we saw tens of different versions of the same few games. We're getting past that now, and we're beginning to see more adventurous concepts akin to SNES and Master System-era games. The higher-end platforms are already pushing towards Doom-era 3D (though with such a small screen size, 2D certainly still has some advantages). We've gone from text-only WAP games to 3D in a scant few years. Simultaneously, the number of developers in the field has shot up. This means that it's easy to get left behind if you don't have both good technology people keeping you at the cutting edge and good marketing people finding you licenses to work with and making sure your games get seen. We're very fortunate to have both at Kuju.Don't let technology take overIt's great to support the latest technology, but past a certain point you begin to limit your market to early adopters. If your latest game is based around technology that's only going to be found in the highest-end business handsets for the next six months (WiFi, anyone?), ask yourself if you're really going to sell many copies.Plan for lots of versionsLots of different handsets, screen resolutions, music handling capabilities, control layouts, processor speeds. Until there's a standard (something like what Microsoft pushed for with the Multimedia PC long ago) every title launch is going to either have a huge amount of different versions, or limit itself to only the more popular handsets.Forget the plotGiven that you don't typically have space for lots of pre-recorded speech, any plot is going to have to fit within the in-game action and the occasional screen of text. A screen will only hold a few short sentences even on the largest versions, and no-one wants to read more than a few of these before each level. So forget your multi-layered conspiracy theory epic: what you can't write in a handful of paragraphs isn't going to happen. If you can, mix the plot into the in-game action to break things up (in Judge Dredd we had our characters talking in comic book-style speech balloons at key points).Accept the limitations…Too many mobile games carry across baggage from console versions. In some cases, it's great to have a mobile phone game that looks like a shrunk-down version of its console cousin. But don't include unnecessary screen clutter and complex menu systems just because they look good when you see them on a 28" widescreen TV. Forget loading and saving - make it transparent to drop out of the game and continue it again. Forget profiles that allow different players to save their progress (how often do you lend your mobile phone to someone else, anyway?). Strip everything down to its basics.…And embrace the advantagesMake use of the handset's advantages over a console. Can you use Bluetooth? Offer downloadable content? Let hundreds of players play at the same time? Integrate the phone's camera into the game? In Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure we're using the phone's keypad to simulate the time-travelling phone booth in the film - dial a date and you're taken to that year!
Sony's PSX machine - essentially a souped-up PlayStation 2 with a hard drive - is still struggling in Japan and has had itsRRP cutto less than two-thirds of its original. The device, which can be used as a Digital Video Recorder, has seemingly debunked the convergence theory that assumes punters want one box to cover all their electrical leisure needs. A European launch isunlikely, and I would have thought it would make more sense to wait until PS3 to launch a similarly souped-up "PSX2" alongside that. Hopefully they'll have a bit more luck than Panasonic's ill-fated,but still oddly gorgeous, Q, which was based on Nintendo's Gamecube.
After decrying hisGamesMasterdays and swearing he'd never do anything remotely associated with games-on-TV again, presenterDominik Diamondis returning to the place from whence he came. Diamond's new games-related TV show "When Games Attack" will be launching on the Bravo channel in November, bumping other games-on-TV veteranViolet Berlinwho's held the helm of Bravo'sGame Padfor four seasons and headed upBad Influencein the mid-90's. Apparently,"When Games Attack will be a knowing and credible video game series that reflects gamers' passions and their desire to be entertained and amused."Marvellous.The show's set to be co-hosted by Bo Selecta presenter Caroline Flack.If this information doesn't whet your retro GamesMaster addiction, headhereto find out what Dave "The Games Animal" Perry is up to nowadays. Being a "games legend" apparently.
Last night saw a very well-attended debate, organised byMusicAllyand sponsored by the Guardian, on "Public Relations and Peer-to-peer: the perfect anti-piracy pitch".It was an involving session, featuring a wide range of contributions and some interesting thoughts on the possibilities for positive promotion of legal downloading.While the opinions were mixed on how to deal with illegal downloading and build a concerted PR campaign, the panel was - roughly - split down the middle. More hardline attitudes against downloaders - including the threat of litigation - came fromBPIrepresentative Steve Redmond and M&amp;C Saatchi CEO Tim Duffy, while gentler approaches toward transgressors were displayed by PR guruMark Borkowskiand the Guardian's very own Neil McIntosh.This is a massive and contentious issue, and one which the British music industry seems to have been reluctant to deal with head-on. I'll bring you more on the ideas put forward over the rest of the week; hopefully they'll be cause for some constructive debate.
Apple's foray into online music looks set to cost it millions, as a long-running copyright dispute with the Beatles cranks up to the next level, reportsMediaGuardian.co.uk."Apple Computer has been locked in legal disputes with Apple Corps - The Beatles' holding company that controls Apple Records - over the brand name and logo for 23 years."And legal experts say Apple Computer may have to make what could be the largest out of court settlement in history, according to US lawyers."The current row is over Apple Corps' claim that the computer manufacturer is in breach of a 1991 agreement that forbids it from using the trademark for any application "whose principal content is music"."But in April 2003 Apple Computer launched iTunes in the US, which allows Mac users to download songs from the internet for a small sum. The service launched in the UK this summer and Apple's iPod - the personal music player to use with the iTunes system - has become one of the most desirable consumer products."Reports in the US say US lawyers are expecting an imminent out of court settlement that will dwarf the $30m (£16.3m) paid to the fab four's company in 1991."
The excellent videogame/computer culture group blog Grand Text Auto is running a series of posts looking at the writing behind long-awaited Xbox RPG,Fable. Part one went up yesterday and it's a very interesting study of how narrative and dialogue are created for the videogame environment…Read ithere.
According to aBBC Online storythis morning, the University of Abertay'sDare to be Digitalscheme is attempting to seduce art students into entering the games industry. If this means more unusual games and less unmade beds and rotting sharks cluttering up the nation's art galleries this can only be a good thing.But what are the top five most arty games in videogame history? Off the top of my head...1. Rez - Sega's weird musical shoot 'em up was apparently inspired by the work and theories of Wassily Kandinsky.2. Vib Ribbon - This PlayStation title had you controlling a line-drawn rabbit along a pulsating strip. That's art, isn't it?3. Frankie Goes to Hollywood - The bizarre Commodore 64 tie-in with Trevor Horn's scouse pop outfit subverted game forms in a surreal adventure.4. Viewtiful Joe - Capcom's platformer takes cell-shading to its logical conclusions. A visual hurricane.5. Ico - Fights against videogame convention with the soft beauty of an impressionist masterpiece.Go on, what have I missed?
It is the news that internet users do not want to hear: the worldwide web is in danger of collapsing around us.Patrick Gelsinger, the chief technology officer for computer chip maker Intel, told a conference in San Francisco that the internet could no longer cope with the traffic streaming across its network.Mr Gelsinger said the internet's infrastructure was based on a 30-year-old model and could not manage today's heavy workload and remain secure."We're running up on some architectural limitations," he said.He outlined plans to build a new network that will overlay and strengthen the existing system."These new smart services could allow the internet to detect and warn of worm attacks on its own," he said.With spam now accounting for 80% of all email traffic and the number of viruses and worms increasing, there is growing concern over the internet's underlying stability.The volume of web users has increased tenfold in the past decade, and experts predict it will continue to grow at a rapid pace - particularly as new technology takes hold in developing countries.Mr Gelsinger's concerns were reflected by other experts at the Intel developer forum."I think the net is still pretty primitive; we're in the stone age in respect to networking," Vint Cerf, regarded by many as the father of the internet, told the conference."There is a great deal more that has to be done; some of the fundamental limitations of the net are architectural."The comments are a blow to an industry regaining its footing after the dotcom crash of 2000, but critics have attacked Intel's plans as corporate jabber.Intel's blueprint - dubbed the "Intelnet" by sceptics - is based on a prototype being developed by the Planet Lab project, which is funded by Intel.The new network, which will include a filtering system to kill viruses before they attack computers, is backed by organisations including Cambridge University, Hewlett-Packard and American telecommunications giant AT&amp;T.The claims come as police in 
 Germany bring charges of sabotage against Sven Jaschan, the teenage author of the Sasser virus, which in May compromised the security of millions of computers running Microsoft's Windows operating system.It is not the first time such pronouncements have been made about the security of the internet, but Mr Gelsinger's remarks have caused controversy among those who claim it is scaremongering."There's more than a nugget of truth in what he's saying, but we don't need to replace the internet," said Jim Page, the technical director of Email Systems, an email filtering and security company."What they're talking about is great news for Intel commercially, but it's not an end-of-the-world scenario."
"It is the news that internet users do not want to hear: the worldwide web is in danger of collapsing around us."Patrick Gelsinger, the chief technology officer for computer chip maker Intel, told a conference in San Francisco that the internet could no longer cope with the traffic streaming across its network."Mr Gelsinger said the internet's infrastructure was based on a 30-year-old model and could not manage today's heavy workload and remain secure."Read the full report intoday's Guardian.Comment:Intel's solution? Use a great new superstructure to make the web safer - a great new superstructure that, coincidentally, happens to be funded by Intel.It's a superb PR move on their part, since scare stories like this will receive coverage in places they can't normally get to, but how is the ordinary user supposed to differentiate between a real threat and a corporate ploy?
The latest bout of a branding battle between Apple Computer and The Beatles' Apple Corps over the iTunes music service is being tipped to end in a multimillion pound payment by the American computer giant.Apple Computer has been locked in legal disputes with Apple Corps - The Beatles' holding company that controls Apple Records - over the brand name and logo for 23 years.And legal experts say Apple Computer may have to make what could be the largest out of court settlement in history, according to US lawyers.The current row is over Apple Corps' claim that the computer manufacturer is in breach of a 1991 agreement that forbids it from using the trademark for any application "whose principal  content is music".But in April 2003 Apple Computer launched iTunes in the US, which allows Mac users to download songs from the internet for a small sum.The service  launched in the UK this summer and Apple's iPod - the personal music player to use with the iTunes system - has become one of the most desirable consumer products.Reports in the US say US lawyers are expecting an imminent out of court settlement that will dwarf the $30m (£16.3m) paid to the fab four's company in 1991.One lawyer told the US showbusiness paper, Daily Variety: "People are expecting this to be the biggest settlement anywhere in legal history, outside of a class action suit. The numbers could be mind boggling."The Beatles' lawyers in London, Eversheds, did not return calls made by MediaGuardian.co.uk and a spokeswoman for the notoriously secretive Apple Computer in the US said the company was not commenting on the case.The legal wrangle goes back to 1981 when Apple Computer agreed never to go into the music business, which Apple Corps -  owned by Sir Paul McCartney, Ringo Starr and the widows of John Lennon and George Harrison - believed would encroach on its trademark.That original agreement allowed the Californian company to use the name only for the sale of computers.But Apple Computer later used the logo for computers to edit and record music, prompting the Beatles' company to file its first lawsuit against the hardware giant in 1989.The companies settled their dispute in 1991 following a high court trial lasting more than 100 days. Apple Computer is believed to have paid out around £16.3m and the two sides also signed a new trademark agreement replacing the earlier contracts.The contract stipulated Apple Computer could use the logo for computers, data processing and telecommunications, while the Beatles could retain it for music.But in September 2003 Apple Corps said Apple Computer had entered the entertainment business with iTunes and breached their trademark agreement.Apple Computer responded: "Unfortunately, Apple and Apple Corps now have differing interpretations of this agreement."&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
British mobile phone maker Sendo has settled a David and Goliath-style lawsuit against Microsoft in which it accused the software firm of stealing its secrets and trying to force it out of business.Sendo, based in Birmingham, filed the complaint two years ago after ending plans to incorporate Microsoft software in its latest "smart" phone. The suit alleged fraud, breach of contract and misappropriation of trade secrets.The precise terms of the settlement were not disclosed, but Microsoft will pay Sendo an unspecified amount of cash as well as giving back the 4% stake it holds in the British firm. Neither company is admitting liability.The claim against Microsoft portrayed the software business as desperate to break into the emerging market for smart mobile technology.Unable to convince the big handset manufacturers to use its operating system, Microsoft hatched "a secret plan" to "plunder the small company of its proprietary information, technical expertise, market knowledge, customers and prospective customers", the lawsuit alleged. Sendo claimed Microsoft then handed the information to low-cost handset makers in Asia."In short, Microsoft used Sendo's knowledge and expertise to its benefit to gain direct entry into the burgeoning next-generation mobile phone market and then, after driving Sendo to the brink of bankruptcy, cut it out of the picture," the suit said.Microsoft denied all the allegations and launched a counterclaim against Sendo.Microsoft began discussions with Sendo in 1999 and agreed to collaborate on the smart phone using its "stinger" software. The American company invested some $12m (&#163;6.5m) in Sendo and appointed a board member.A launch date for the smart phone was set for August 2001 but Sendo alleged that Microsoft failed to deliver and refused to fund the development overruns, creating a cashflow crisis for the British company. The suit claimed Microsoft refused to stump up further money in the hope of pushing the company into insolvency and obtaining the royalty-free licence to the intellectual property.After splitting with Microsoft, Sendo turned to rivals Symbian and Nokia for software and launched the Sendo X smart phone in October last year. The firm claims it will have distribution in Britain through one of the main networks this month.The phone allows access to the internet and email, and has additional features including an MP3 player, camera, camcorder and a personal computer port.
The sequel to one of my favourite games -Morrowind- has been announced. CalledThe Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, the game continues the free roaming RPG loveliness of its predecessors. Morrowind was one of the first games that gave you a real sense of freedom, allowing you go anywhere you want, whether it was to climb the next hill or explore the next cave. It is well worth trying, especially if you have plenty of time on your hands. You could also check out the first game in the series which is available forfree download here.
With the next generation of consoles not due until late 2005 at the earliest, the next 18 months will be dominated by handheld machines like Gizmondo,Tapwaveand, most importantly, Sony's PSP. And then there is Nintendo.Reports todaysuggest that theirDShandheld is on target for a pre Christmas arrival in Japan and the US. Europe, as usual, will have to sit tight until around March 2005, but will the wait be worth it? After all, isn't everyone waiting for the PSP,battery lifeissues or not? Although the thought of a Zelda DS game is extremely tempting...
Why is it that successful videogame brands rarely translate into successful movies? Apparently, Keith Boesky, the former president of Eidos, gave a talk on this very subject at theAustin Games Conferencelast week. Variety's games blogger Brad King was there tosummarise...It seems that Boesky provided two explanations:a) Games don't work as movies because games don't have much of a plot. b) Games don't work as movies because the target audiences for the two media are different.I'm not sure I buy the first one. How many of this year's blockbuster movies had a plot any more sophisticated than, say, Vice City, Call of Duty or Fatal Frame 2? Plot has fallen way down the list of ingredients for a successful film, currently languishing several positions below 'awesome special effects', 'killer license', 'gross-out comedy moments' and 'starring Ben Stiller'. Meanwhile, over in videogames, Doom 3 has just drawn a lot of criticism for itslackof compelling narrative.I'm more convinced by the second argument. Most publishers still pander to a very narrow demographic of dedicated young male gamers and this market isn't big enough to create significant box office. Ironically, the games that appeal outside of this niche - things like SingStar, Dance UK and The Sims - wouldn't work as movies because they have no pre-defined stories or characters; the player's own actions provide the entire focus of the gameplay dynamic. A Sims movie seems plausible as the game appropriates the 'rage-to-riches' stencil employed continuously by mainstream films. But without player interaction, it's just a formless slice-of-life docu-soap populated by soulless automatons barely able to function as thinking, interacting beings. Hmmm, wouldn't work as a movie, but as Saturday night TV...
Samsung has just unveiled the first mobile phone with a hard disk drive. Due for release in Japan later this year, the SPH-V5400 boasts a whopping 1.5GB of storage, dwarfing the capacity of current UK handsets. Perhaps this'll finally put an end to the mobile game industry's reliance on eighties arcade conversions. Naturally, it all depends on the roll-out of 3G services - you wouldn't want to eventhinkabout downloading anything much bigger than 250k on current GPRS networks.Take a good look at the SPH-V5400here.
"In an expected move following his arrest and confession earlier this year, an 18-year-old German student has been indicted on computer crimes for his work writing and releasing the Sasser and Netsky worms," reportsE-Commerce Times."Sven Jaschan, who was turned in by a peer who sought a US$250,000 reward from Microsoft, was arrested last May when he admitted to making Sasser as an effort to eradicate two other prominent viruses: Bagle and MyDoom."Jaschan, who faces a maximum of five years imprisonment under German law, fits the teenage profile of a typical virus writer, but does not appear to have been driven by traditional motivators such as notoriety or profit."Instead, according to an interview in the German magazineStern, Jaschan is portrayed as a curious young man with good intentions and bad results."And it seems like bad times all round for virus writers - they even seem to be encoding job applications into their worms, claimsReuters."Technicians at British anti-virus firm Sophos said on Friday they had discovered a plea for work inserted deep in the lines of code for two new computer worm outbreaks, "MyDoom-U" and "MyDoom-V".""We searching 4 work in AV (anti-virus) industry," read the message. Because it was inserted in the code, the message was only visible to anti-virus professionals."It's hard to tell if the creators of these new versions of the MyDoom worm are being serious, but there is no way that anybody in the anti-birus industry would touch them with a barge pole," said Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant for Sophos."
It all used to be so straightforward.  If you wanted to listen to  some music when it was convenient  to you rather than  when it was on the wireless,  you would go to a record shop,  get something made out of vinyl and  put it on the gramophone. As a  means of getting your favourite tunes  it lasted for an awfully long time.  Things changed a little when CDs  arrived in the 80s but essentially the  same model held sway, without so  many scratches.Fast-forward to the late 90s and  the start of digital music downloading.  Often using peer-to-peer systems,  this allows people to share  items they have "ripped" to their hard  disk from CDs or indeed from vinyl.  More recently these downloads have  become more legitimate, and a couple  of weeks ago the first music  download chart was launched.  All of which puts recent moves  from Napster and Microsoft in an  interesting light.Napster - until a few  years ago the biggest name in illegal  peer-to-peer downloading - has been building up a catalogue of legitimately  owned music. And thanks to  the upcoming UK release of  Microsoft's latest software Windows  Media Player 10 (WMP10), Napster  subscribers will no longer be limited  to playing music they have purchased  on a computer or an MP3 player -  they'll be able to rent tracks from a  library of around a million tunes.  Leanne Sharman, vice president  and UK general manager of Napster,  says that the Napster To Go service  will launch with the WMP10 by the  end of this month and as a standalone  service by the end of the year.  For a monthly subscription that has  yet to be decided (the US price is  $14.95, $5 more than the normal  Napster subscription) you'll be able  to rent tracks from Napster's one million song library.If you're not already a digital  music devotee this might look like  just a slight new wrinkle on buying  an iPod or any other MP3 player. The  major difference is that an MP3  player is a hardware system that  relies on digital music which you'll have had to buy or transfer from a  CD you own until now; the new Napster  system will offer a virtually endless  supply of music from its library  for what in America looks like the  cost of a new CD album per month.  Microsoft is predictably bullish  about WMP10's prospects, and the  portable multimedia player it has in  the pipeline. "Portable media centres  are a new category of devices that will  change the way we think about digital  entertainment on the go, because  they allow people to take all of their  digital entertainment with them -  music, photos, recorded television,  video," says James Bernard, the company's  product manager.He points to as yet unexplored areas such as watching sports highlights  on the train, taking portable  films on a business trip and other  applications."Someday, people might be able to  download a new track, and also get a  music video, interview with an artist or  concert footage. While there will continue  to be a strong market for audioonly  devices, it's this kind of innovation  that will offer consumers choice and  take online music to the next level."All of which is fine and dandy,  except that there are already portable  music devices out there and since  WMP10 isn't out yet it's pretty clear  that they haven't needed it yet.Mark  Mulligan, analyst with Jupiter  Research, believes Microsoft may be  disadvantaged in this area because  Apple already has the market lead  with its iPod product. "Normally  when there's anything to do with digital  media you'd expect Microsoft to  be the key driver in the market but  they've been slightly late to market  this time. At the moment the defining  company is Apple and iTunes." In  fact, believes Mulligan, the iPod is leading the digital music market as  much as the iTunes store. If this pattern  continues then people like Napster,  who provide the online music  store only, could have something of a  problem."The way to think about how a  digital music store exists alongside  digital music devices is pretty much  like a walnut dashboard in a car -  you're not going to buy a car because  you want a walnut dashboard, however  it might decide which model you  get." In other words while digital  music on a computer has some  appeal, it's not going to get the massmarket  interested just yet.Sharman, by contrast, believes  that 2005 will be a pivotal year for  take-up of digital music. Downloads  will work alongside rather than compete  with the more traditional  media, she says: "It's changing the  way consumers will start to consume  music in the UK," she says. "We're  starting to see trends of consumers  going online and next year we'll see  this increasing. People will still want  to purchase a CD in the high street  and use services like Napster as a  complementary service."The figures suggest there will be a  way to go before the traditional  music retailers start to get hurt by  digital downloading, portable or otherwise.  Jupiter's figures show strong  adoption of the digital media but it  remains a minority pursuit. "We're  talking about single-digit percentages  of penetration of these devices,"  says Mulligan. "It's comparable to  mini-disc players. They haven't revolutionised  the way people consume  music. That said, digital music  devices will have a stronger role as  time goes on, but it's not about to  replace the CD."By 2008-2009  downloaded music will account for 7-8% of the music market, he suggests.  Another potential problem for  Microsoft is its Windows Media  Audio format. Windows media files  don't play on iPods. And at the time  of writing, iPods are the most popular  form of portable media player.  Mulligan believes this could be a serious  issue for Microsoft: "One of the  huge assets they &#91;Apple&#93; have got is  the huge installed base of media  player users," he says.This has both  advantages and disadvantages, he  says. The advantage is a clear built-in  market leadership. The disadvantage  is that without a hardware media  player, Microsoft is dependent on  partners to get its music download  strategy into profitability. "They can't  go out and push a Microsoft music  service in the way Apple can as they  would alienate so many of their partners,"  says Mulligan.Whether Microsoft or Apple eventually  brings the download market  into the mainstream, it's clear that  it'll happen eventually - just think of  the shelf space you'd save. But it's  going to happen slowly, and if 8% by  2009 is the best estimate then traditional  music retailers and distributors  needn't start worrying about  their viability just yet.
With portable media players like the iPod gaining in popularity, some IT managers have become concerned about the possibility of gadgets being used to take important information away from the office. Microsoft plans to combat this with its next OS release, reportsCnet."Much has been made of the security risks posed by portable storage devices known as USB keys, or flash drives, music players like the iPod, and other small gadgets that can store vast amounts of data. Some fear that such tiny devices can be used to quickly copy sensitive data off business PC hard drives, or to introduce malicious software onto corporate networks.""It's a real problem," said Padmanand Warrier, a developer in Microsoft's Windows unit. "That's the feedback we've gotten from IT folks.""To put the new features in place, Microsoft is hoping to move to a common model for how wired and wireless devices connect to a PC in 2006, around the time that it releases the next version of Windows, code-named Longhorn. For consumers, that means that wireless printers, networked music players and other wireless devices should be able to connect to a PC as easily as the USB drives today."
The launch of a news site on the internet is hardly news, but when the former editor of the Observer unveils a service that bills itself as predicting the future, heads have inevitably turned in its direction.Jonathan Fenby can list working for Reuters, the Economist, the Guardian and South China Morning Post as well as the Observer during his long career, although his latest position as the editorial director ofEarlywarning.comis, he admits, the first time he has ever been involved with a branch of journalism that claims to tell people what is going to happen."There's so much news out there that tells you what's already happened," he says. "So our basic principle is that we're there to look ahead. We don't just report on what's happening, we analyse it and so reveal what's going to happen. It's not futurology, we're keen to stick clear of using that term, because it normally means predicting weird and fancy things for 2020. We're far more short term and based on geopolitics. We won't just report on something, we write about the forces behind it and so predict it, rather than react to it."It may sound like gazing into a crystal ball but Fenby is adamant that the team behind Earlywarning.com are experts in their fields. Its publisher, Jonathan Humphrey, and editor, Robert Harvey, met Fenby when they all worked at the Economist. Hence the team is mature and well seasoned in publishing, which sets them apart from many younger journalists who have swapped print for silicon, although Fenby laughs at title of a "silver surfer", preferring the mantle of "legacy asset".This experienced group is backed up by content from more than 40 stringers. The articles are not going to be bylined but they'll generally be from someone who lives and writes in the country concerned who has got a great insight into what's going on behind the scenes," he says. "A lot of the time they may not write a whole article but may tip us off to something which we then write. That way we've got experts spread across various subjects and many countries all feeding their insight into the site."Such expertise will cost. Although the site is offering a free month's trial subscription, thereafter access will cost $600 per year. Despite the potential price barrier, Fenby is convinced the site will attract sufficient subscribers. "We think we're going to appeal to people in the media as well as people from official bodies who need to know what's going on around the world," he says."We're obviously also hoping to get a lot of subscriptions from business men and women who need to be up to date with events in their markets and   those they may wish to enter. We realise that business people can use analysts to predict the number of goods they'll sell in different countries. We're not competing on that level, we're not about number crunching."But, as with any new service that launches online, those already operating in a similar field are keen to point out why the latest entrant will find the going far from easy.Oliver Greenwood, sales and marketing director atNoozz.com, claims that his site is living testimony to the public - or more specifically, business people - being willing to pay for access to news. However, he is convinced that a service which only publishes its own articles and claims to predict the future may well be very brave but is also not headed for longevity."The people that will pay the money are usually business people who are very interested in getting very detailed information about a particular country or region," he says."They want to see what a variety of sources are saying about their industry and the country they are active in or hoping to target. That's why we put up articles from a variety of sources, including Reuters and the Economist, so they're getting a view from different angles. Earlywarning sounds very interesting but I can't see how people are going to pay money to see the world through one source rather than a variety."By using a single voice approach, Greenwood believes that Earlywarning will miss out on the discussion that can ensue from journalists from different backgrounds covering the same issue."Compare the average story on Iraq in an American paper with what appears in the French press and you'll see how world events are so open to interpretation," he maintains. "That's why we think it's better to have a variety of sources so there's a discussion rather than one expert saying they not only know what has happened but they can tell by that what will happen. That's a pretty big claim to make."This is particularly true of emerging markets, he argues. While they are the area he has found business people are willing to pay a subscription for to read about, they are also changing so rapidly that predicting future events is almost impossible.Fenby is adamant, though, that there is space for a news site that does not buy in "faceless" copy from a wide variety of news agencies. While many people are happy to read   assorted headlines collated by their ISP, he is confident there is a thirst for deeper knowledge of what is behind world events than is made available by aggregator sites that do what he calls "a Yahoo".Shoba Purushothaman, president and founder ofTheNewsMarket.com, disagrees. She put years of journalism at newspapers such as the Wall Street Journal to use by founding her company which has a niche in supplying video news content around the world."It sounds like they've given themselves a very lofty mission," she warns. "It's going to be very tough because they're up against a lot of established sites and management and analytical services. They are caught in a bit of a trap because $600 would seem a lot of money to spend on a site for someone with a casual interest yet it's far too little for someone that is very serious about researching a country with a view to launching a business there, and those are the people that are most willing to pay for content."I'd also say that, with the journalist in me speaking, I've looked at the site and read the articles and, while they're good, I didn't come away feeling that I'd learned a great deal new or been given an amazing insight into the future."At the root of the potential problems facing the predictive news site is the harsh reality that while it claims to have forward-thinking journalists with insights into events around the world, those same writers will undoubtedly be contributing to other titles, both online and in print.According to media strategist Jonathan Schmidt of Surfacemap, whose clients have included the Financial Times and the Economist, this will mean that Earlywarning will find it hard to live up to its billing. "It's making the economics work that is going to be key," he says. "They're keeping costs down by using stringers but by definition that means you can't really bill yourself as unique because those people will work for other titles. The main issue is that for people to pay to access your content you need to have more to your brand value than a snappy title. So to start up from nowhere and then want people to give you $600 right away is a big ask."However, Fenby and the Earlywarning team are still adamant that there is an online market for those that, for example, would pay to read an article they published last week showing the different outcomes for American foreign policy should John Kerry or George Bush win the US election.
Few sectors in history have witnessed such a rollercoaster of fortunes as the new media sector. In a matter of years the pendulum has swung from the hysteria and excessive valuations of 1999 to the drought in funding and glut of company closures in 2002. Now a number of commentators have started speaking of a sense of d&#233;j&#224; vu driven by events such as the IPO of Google at a market value of over $27bn, Yahoo's acquisition of shopping service Kelkoo for &#163;318m, and Espotting, the paid-listings provider, being acquired by Findwhat for $180m.There are clear signs that the torrid funding landscape for companies basing their business models on the internet, interactive TV and wireless is coming to an end. Late 2003 and 2004 have witnessed a revival in the marketplace with venture capital (VC) funding support, merger and acquisition activity, and impressive return on investment (ROI) figures from a range of new media channels.According to the British Venture Capital Association, in 2003 the number of companies financed at the start-up stage increased by 12% from 2002, representing investment of &#163;73m. Moreover e-commerce companies received &#163;399m, almost seven times higher than the &#163;60m invested in 2002.Numerous new media companies have announced multi-million pound funding deals in 2004. A high-profile deal which we recently closed at GP Capital was the substantial funding round for wi-fi network The Cloud, with investment from 3i and Accel Partners. The IPO market has also been receptive to new media companies, with recent flotations for ISP PlusNet, Bluetooth company CSR and of course the publicity-shy search engine company Google.However, there are signs that funding appetite from the listed markets is beginning to wane. Online marketing company IPT has become the latest new media firm to delay its plans to float on the London stock market. Indications from institutional investors suggest they are digesting the numerous new proposals to hit their desks, with many expecting the stronger proposals to be able to float towards the end of the year.Internet companies and the new media sector were largely blamed   for the fallout from 2000, so why the renewed interest in the sector?The types of companies being funded now are markedly different from many of those who raised finance in 2000. The VC focus is mainly on later-stage companies, rather than speculative start-ups. Those start-ups that are securing funding are run by seasoned management teams with unique intellectual property. The investors know that the companies that have weathered the storm over the past few years have created robust sustainable business models that will perform strongly when the market picks up. History is littered with former fledglings like Apple, Dell, Microsoft, Oracle and Starbucks that were founded in recessions.Investors are witnessing the impressive returns available to those who harness the true potential of channels such as mobile and the internet. Nowhere has this been demonstrated more strongly than with online advertising. The phrase was akin to swearing in VC circles in 2000. However the Interactive Advertising Bureau's (IAB) latest figures show that online ad spend in the UK rebounded by 80% in 2003 to reach &#163;353.6m. The IAB adds that the online industry is set to double in size every three years, outpacing other media and overtaking radio's share of UK advertising by 2007. Key drivers behind this increase include rapid audience growth, improved measurability and the dramatic rise of search engines for customer acquisition.VCs are finally generating returns from their new media investments, which breeds confidence and allows more capital to be re-invested in the next "Google". High-profile gains for investors, such as the sales of Espotting to FindWhat, Overture to Yahoo and OD2 to Loudeye, have encouraged further investment in the sector.While the flood of investment in 1999/2000 had serious consequences for the majority of investors it also attracted a wealth of talent to the sector and created a culture of rapid innovation. Investors are attracted by the "can do" culture of the entrepreneurs.So, what of the individuals who talk of a return to 2000? The new media industry, including the investors who back it, is a beast of a different shape to the one which experienced such highs and lows at the start of the century. Investors have learnt harsh lessons and have fine-tuned their investment strategies. Moreover new media channels are delivering a ROI that cannot be ignored by brands and the traditional media sector. Online advertising is an entrenched part of the marketing mix. Soon the "new media" sector will disappear altogether and internet, wireless and iTV will represent core elements of mainstream media.&#183;Manish Madhvani is a director of GP Capital which gives corporate finance advice
'Oi, mate, watch how you strap down that hog!' The leather-clad biker with the thick Midlands accent and grizzled beard was taking no chances with the embarquement of his banana-yellow Harley-Davidson - a bike with a better grasp of personal hygiene than its owner. Unfortunately the French rail worker's grasp of Brummie was as limited as his desire to please. Next up was a beautiful Jaguar XK140, its owner sweating with anxiety even before the car had made it on to the ramp. Then it was my rusted, crumb-filled Volvo estate, no worries there...Along with the Brummie biker and balding Jag owner, I was here with my wife and another family waiting to board the overnight express heading for the guaranteed sun of southern France. We could have flown and hired cars, but the old-fashioned romance of thundering through the night, slung in bunks, and waking up to croissants and the Languedoc's vine-covered hills won us over.RailEurope's Motorail service does exactly what it says on the label - it's motors on rails. Cars, bikes, vintage motors (though no people carriers - the bridges en route would turn your Galaxy into a newly minted convertible) are winched on to the back of the train while passengers make their way to the front carriages and the traditional SNCF-styling of brown leatherette seats, dirty floors and windows that can't be opened. There's also the baffling touch of light switches which click in the wrong direction and air-conditioning units with back-to-front controls. Which adds up to spending the first part of the journey sweating in the dark. But also, ironically, serves to increase the charming 'Frenchness' of it all.The Motorail service leaves the depot on the outskirts of Calais at just before nine in the evening, and snakes south, stopping in Paris, then the rugby and sausage towns of Brive and Toulouse, and finally arriving in Narbonne in time for breakfast. Our party's two families were booked into adjacent couchettes (one child wanted to know why all the cabins were called 'courgettes'), so it seemed sensible for us four adults to repair to one couchette for a picnic of ros&#233; and olives, baguettes and cheese, while the children were allowed to run riot next door. Each couchette sleeps six and the combination of bunks, straps, luggage racks and ladders quickly doubles as a mobile climbing frame come padded cell. Towards midnight, we separated back into families, slipped between our sheets and drifted off to sleep as the train shaked, rattled and rolled its way to the Med. The only disturbance being a loud thud through the wall followed by inconsolable screaming - the sound of a toddler tipping from its bunk.It takes 12 hours to cover the 682 miles, and I took great pleasure in noting that the car journey from the south of London to the south of France was exactly 72 miles.With the cars unloaded we headed for the hills, feeling the first night of our continental break had been a great success - comfortable beds, great views, just a shame about the loos.&#183;www.raileurope.co.uk; 08702 415 415
"A keyboard, mouse, and a stand-alone fingerprint reader were added to Microsoft's hardware lineup. The products are aimed at consumers and are meant for convenience use only. Strong, or hard-to-guess passwords are still recommended for sensitive data such as financial information or for access to corporate networks, Microsoft says. The Optical Desktop with Fingerprint Reader is expected to retail for $109, while the Wireless IntelliMouse Explorer with Fingerprint Reader will sell for $85. The Fingerprint Reader by itself is expected to retail for $55", reportsIDG News Service."As part of its annual keyboard and mice product line refresh, Microsoft also is introducing a new gently-curved keyboard with keys placed at a 6 degree angle. The keyboard promotes a more natural hand and wrist alignment but offers the same layout as a traditional flat keyboard, according to Microsoft."Comment:The Comfort Edition keyboard is a compromise that is more ergonomic than a conventional flat keyboard but does not have the split that some find disturbing in the Microsoft Natural Keyboard and similar devices.
Game Stars Live &amp; European Games NetworkIf you love gaming enough to find your way out to the desolate wastes of London's Docklands, last week's Game Stars Live exhibition (allied with the trade-only European Games Network show) was an opportunity to see what we'll all be gawping at from our sofas over the next few months. Easily the biggest draw was Halo 2 for Xbox, with more patient gamers queuing for two hours to taste the joy before its UK release on Nov 11.Behind closed doors the big news was handheld gaming, with the sleek Palm-organiser-meets-games-machine the Zodiac 2 going head-to-head with ludicrously named and slightly plump English contender the Gizmondo (pictured). Early signs suggest Gizmondo could have a fight on their hands, which will only get tougher when Sony and Nintendo turn up with the PSP and DS handhelds.
No one knows who the author of Rance (captain hoof.tripod.com/blog) is - although it is rumoured to be a veteran movie star using the anonymity of blogging to spill the dirt on his Hollywood cohorts. This is just one example of the growing phenomena of fake blogs which began with Belle de Jour (belledejour-uk.blogspot.com), a diary written by a London call girl that many speculate is really the work of a novelist.Elsewhere hundreds of Live Journal users are stealing the identity of celebrities like Kirsten Dunst (llivejournal.com/users/xo-kirsten-ox) while debate is raging as to the authenticity of QT 's Diary (qtdiary.blogspot.com), a plausible dialogue between Quentin Tarantino and his adoring public. Best of all is Hulk's Diary (incrediblehulk.blogspot.com), where the Incredible Hulk details his daily life, all the while attempting, in vain, to keep his anger in check.
Silent Hill 4: The RoomPlaystation 2, XBoxSilent Hill 4 begins with the discovery that your character is locked in his one-bedroom flat, the front door unaccountably chained shut from the inside, a cryptic warning written on it in blood, and windows that simply refuse to open. You soon discover a jagged hole in the bathroom wall, from which drift disturbing groans and echoing children's laughter - although in real life this is probably the point at which you would climb under your duvet and never, ever come out again, in the game you jump in and start taking on the supernatural horrors that lurk in its shifting depths. Although just as macabre, Silent Hill 4 is less confusing than its forebears, creating a superb feeling of isolation as complete normality continues outside your flat, always just out of reach.&#183;Konami, £40Wario Ware, Inc: Mega Party Game$GamecubePlenty of titles feature mini-games: from Grand Theft Auto to Banjo-Kazooie, putting in light-hearted gaming side orders - often with little or no relevance to the plot or overarching    gameplay - is a nice way of injecting extra variety. Wario Ware, Inc takes this to its logical extreme with the emergence of micro-games, each one a three-to five-second nugget of ingenious weirdness: shake paws with a sheltie, eat a hotdog in two bites, sniff up a giant cartoon blob of snot or take part in wafer-thin slices of the original Legend Of Zelda, Super Mario Brothers or F-Zero. From its triumphant outing on Game Boy Advance to this multiplayer version which may be the most perfect and surreal party game since Bishi Bashi Special on PSone, Wario Ware, Inc is actually more than 200 very, very small games in one.&#183;Nintendo, £40
On the Web, traffic breeds links breeds traffic. Just askCooking for Engineers, which rapidly went from 20-40 hits a day to 12,000 per hour. Apart from that, yes, it does offer illustrated recipes. Really.However, I have to say thatthis sitelooks a lot more like the sort of cookingrealengineers do.
The summertime games release drought has ended with a huzzah. Ushering in the weekend is a selection of interactive entertainments to make your heart sing. First up is the leader of the pack:Burnout 3.Brought to you by Guildford-basedCriterionand publishersEA, this is the definitive answer to road rage. The dysfunctional child of Gran Tourismo and destruction derby, with genetics from the "milkman" Sega Rally, it is a traditional racer in the sense that the player aims to get around the track to the finish line the fastest, but what happens in between is a special effects spectacular. This iteration makes the previous two look like Sunday drives, particularly with the installed XBox Live capability. Solo players can fuel their petrol head fixation with just as much fun, negotiating through the World Circuit mode. Seriously, don't take my word for it. This game is superb. It's £39.99.Another driver coming to the PC and PS2 isEuro Rally Champion, a title which takes the Indy Car series engine and tried for gold in the already-saturated Rally Car Driving Game genre. It looks good and costs a treat. Pick up this title, which features multiplayer and single player hilarity for £19.99.The.hackseries now has a Volume 3. This offlineMassively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game, if there can be such a beast, takes players through the third part of the increasingly interesting story. This time, there's an outbreak of some sort, effecting the game world and the real world. Considering this all three titles have been pumped out in the space of one year, this series could be the beginning of mass market episodic gaming. Like a good book, .hack draws you in. Before you enter, though, get your shots. It's £39.99.Finally, for strategy buffs,Arena Warsis a real time strategy game set in - you guessed it - the future with - never! - robots. It's surprisingly action-packed, both in the single-player mode against awfully smart AI or versus 8 friends or enemies. They've really set this up for Local Area Network parties, with advances in web cam and audio network communications. It costs £19.99.
I tried to break out of the gender box earlier yesterday, the second day of theWomen'sand Austin Conference by attending a couple of sessions in theAustinconference'sMassively Multiplayer Online Game design stream. I was, quite frankly, horrified. Oh how pleased I was to return to the preserve of the much more grown-up women's conference, where double entendres, in-jokes and a lack of lateral thought were distinctly absent. How utterly depressing. If any of the men attending that conference had any sense, they'd have the cahones to attend a couple of the sessions at the sister gig. Perhaps they would learn why women don't play their games and how they could change our minds.But apparently, with some significant exceptions, most have no intention of leaving their nice little garden paths. Men appear to have an interest in such topics, because they'll attend the male-heavy panels on diversifying the markets, but they'll predictably ignore sessions on the exact same subject from a female perspective. Interestingly, while the men's sessions are dedicated to cracking into the female audience, the women's sessions are about attracting players within a broader sense of the word diversity, including minority players, disabled players and those hordes of men who don't play games. Solution in the men's? Make games that are easier and are coloured pink. In the women's? Twofold: change game mechanics to be more inclusive, not simpler. In the words of Kiki Wolfkill, Art Director at Microsoft, "The female market wants to be mentally challenged, not challenged on how quickly they can use their thumbs and push four buttons". Secondly, as suggested by sociologist and games academicTL Taylor, deal with the issues that are endemic in the culture of videogames – the marketing, the game shopping environments, the social mechanics. Future conferences truly interested in broadening the audience would definitely benefit from a strip down of these, with an audience of marketers, PR people and sales staff.The session on taking design risks in games at the Austin show - another conference, thesamehot topic - was a pure representation of this division. The moderator was the same, Sony Online'sRaph Koster, and while in the women's conference he was able to have a stimulating and pragmatic conversation with the panellists, in the design discussion he was challenged by the short-term solutions of the contributors and the guffaws of the crowd when someone had the gall to mention the word "penis". Sigh.Koster did a commendable job trying to throw in some really excellent and sometimes ridiculous propositions into the mix, but the panellists were too busy dissecting their latest product within the niche, in niche language, that Raph's suggestions were lost. My inner dreams of a-broader-market-by-design were dashed against the proverbial virtual rocks. I wanted to find out more about games that can help us solve the puzzle for the cure for cancer, teach us how to play a musical instrument or work like the extra-terrestrial beacon deviceSETI @ home, not about how Shadowbane related to World of Warcraft or Dark Age of Camelot. Blah blah blah.If the industry is truly interested in thinking about new and different markets, it needs to integrate conferences like these, and plant the seed of adulthood amongst the delegates so grown-up conversations can be had from which mutually successful solutions can emerge. At this point, we're still as different as Mars and Venus.
The rumours have been kicking around for a while, but Sony has finally announced a sequel to Ico - the best PlayStation 2 game ever made. Codenamed "Nico", but actually calledWanda and the Colossus, the game isn't actually a direct sequel, but an entirely new title that shares the same dreamlike graphical style that helped make Ico so gorgeous. Details are patchy, but initial shots show the similarities to the original game. For those of you who own a PS2 and don't have Ico then make it your aim for the week to pick up a copy. You won't regret it.
While most gamers are focussed onSony's PSPand Nintendo's DS handheld consoles, a UK competitor, theGizmondo, has announced its release date. Launching in the UK on the 29th October, the Gizmondo will then be released worldwide afterwards. I had abrief play at E3and while the games were below par the tech stats were impressive. The Gizmondo plays movies and MP3's and has SMS and MMS capabilities along with a GPS navigation system. The latter, in particular, throws up some interesting game development ideas, but does the Gizmondo stand any chance against next year's Sony and Nintendo onslaught?
Marks &amp; Spencer is in talks to hand its online sales business to a third party operator, possibly Amazon.com.The M&amp;S website - marksandspencer.com - sells a variety of goods, from fashion to furniture, schoolwear and lingerie, but not food.It is one of the most popular mixed retail websites, in terms of both sales and page hits. It is only a fraction of the size of the biggest UK online retailers such as amazon.co.uk and Tesco.com, however, and new chief executive Stuart Rose decided it should be outsourced.He is understood to have concluded that management time would be better spent focusing on the core bricks and mortar business rather than the tiny internet operation, even though he acknowledges it has potential.A spokeswoman described the internet business as "thriving" but added that it might develop faster with the help of external, specialist expertise: "It's an important selling channel for us and we're looking for ways of enhancing it. Early stage talks are being held with a number of different groups to see what is on offer."The spokeswoman conceded that it was a matter of choosing a partner rather than choosing whether to find a partner. "We are definitely looking to tie up with another company."A partner could be brought in to manage the entire internet operation from website design to doorstep delivery or that party could just take on order fulfilment.The website has been rebranded under the new Your M&amp;S marketing logo and includes the entire range of Limited Collection clothing, launched this month. The range was the brainchild of design supremo Yasmin Yusuf, who announced her departure from the troubled company two days ago.If Amazon does win the M&amp;S contract it would represent a significant advance for the British arm of the US group.The parent company has partnership deals with leading store chains such as Target and Borders but in the UK retailers have generally developed in-house expertise. Among the biggest retail sector names only Waterstone's has so far signed up with Amazon.British consumers shop online more than in any other European country, but the explosion of internet sales at the expense of traditional "bricks and mortar" stores that was predicted five years ago has not happened.M&amp;S shares were unchanged at 352p yesterday.
The PBS TV network in the States has just started showing a documentary series on the history of videogames. Apparently, it features lots of interesting interviews with industry veterans but is very US-centred, failing to recognise the rather large role Japan has played in the whole story. What a surprise, eh?Anyway, thewebsiteis rather nice.Aleks, can you tape this for us while you're over in Texas?
Mobile game publisherDigital Bridgeshas just announced that it is launching a Java conversion of classic Atari dungeon shooter, Gauntlet. Developed byTKO Software, this mobile version features over 20 levels, many of which are identical to favourites from the 1985 coin-op.Sadly, although you can pick from the same four characters - Warrior, Wizard, Valkyrie and Elf - there's no four-player co-op mode, which some would say was the whole point of the arcade original. Still, youcanre-live those halycon days of being chased through a level by hundreds of tiny ghosts while trying to pick up health bonuses en route.
