There's a new book coming out for online games enthusiasts from virtual world economist Edward Castronova. I've had my copy ofSynthetic Worldsfor a couple of months now and managed to crack it when I was away from the pressing concerns of work and home.Apart from coming to terms with yet another name for this genre (MMOG, MMORPG, MMRPG, Online Game, Virtual World, etc.), Synthetic Worlds is an excellent and comprehensive overview of the weird world of virtual-to-real commerce and culture written in Ted's typically theatrical style. For example, "Topographies of Terror" is a particularly dramatic heading, but in reality it posits a number of questions (and postulates a few answers) that make these strange alternate metaverses more relevant to the real world than they first appear.Although he's an economist by trade, the book isn't dry and doesn't just deal with GDPs, diamond paradoxes and other incomprehensible economic principles. It delves into pretty much everything that's currently being discussed about the virtual world phenomenon.From the officialblurb:From EverQuest to World of Warcraft, online games have evolved from the exclusive domain of computer geeks into an extraordinarily lucrative staple of the entertainment industry. People of all ages and from all walks of life now spend thousands of hours—and dollars—partaking in this popular new brand of escapism. But the line between fantasy and reality is starting to blur. Players have created virtual societies with governments and economies of their own whose currencies now trade against the dollar on eBay at rates higher than the yen. And the players who inhabit these synthetic worlds are starting to spend more time online than at their day jobs.In Synthetic Worlds, Edward Castronova offers the first comprehensive look at the online game industry, exploring its implications for business and culture alike. He starts with the players, giving us a revealing look into the everyday lives of the gamers—outlining what they do in their synthetic worlds and why. He then describes the economies inside these worlds to show how they might dramatically affect real world financial systems, from potential disruptions of markets to new business horizons. Ultimately, he explores the long-term social consequences of online games: If players can inhabit worlds that are more alluring and gratifying than reality, then how can the real world ever compete? Will a day ever come when we spend more time in these synthetic worlds than in our own? Or even more startling, will a day ever come when such questions no longer sound alarmist but instead seem obsolete?With more than five million active players worldwide—and with Microsoft and Sony pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into video game development—online games have become too big to ignore. Synthetic Worlds spearheads our efforts to come to terms with this virtual reality and its concrete effects.For people who follow the debates at Castronova's virtual world weblogTerra Novawhich gathers together the top thinkers on the subject, you won't find much new that hasn't been covered there, but it's great to see it in one comprehensive package available to the general public, and not in dribs and drabs. I anticipate that as so-called synthetic worlds become more prevalent in communications, cultural studies, humanities and other social science courses that this will sit on the reading lists.It's a great resource for virtual world geeks like me, who want to think deeply about what the digital future holds, and what it means for the rest of us.
When VW's iconic Golf GTi rolled off the production line 30 years ago, it transformed the world of the practical motorist forever. Here, at last, was a car that was not only sensible, but racy and edgy too. It had a boot and four seats and could be relied on to give you a bit of fun when the lights turned green. It also introduced us to the term 'hot hatch', with its connotations of shaggy blond mullets, faded denims and large furry dice.Having seen what VW had done with its GTi, everyone else jumped on the gravy train: Honda came up with the Civic Type-R, Ford introduced the Focus RS, and Vauxhall ... well, it came up with the Astra. But the Astra wasn't all that hot. It was more of a 'tepid hatch'. Lumpen and dull, its 'hot' peers were lovingly caressed in a million suburban garages, while the Astra became the poor man's fleet car.All that has now changed. The new-look Astra Sport Hatch has as much in common with its antecedent as the Bride of Wildenstein has with Kate Moss. Steeply raked screen pillars lower the roof line, while the sculpted shoulders and tapered rear end (the roof lines flow into the curved trunk like the sweep of a teddy boy's DA) give the Astra a coupe-like appearance. From the front, the marque's historic Griffin badge (which dates back to a chap called Fulk de Breant, whose 13th-century home was on the original site of Vauxhall, in south London, where the company was founded in 1857) perches above the big V-shaped bumper and 3D lights, which gives the Astra a lean, mean look - think Simon Cowell's skinny twin brother.Being a Vauxhall, there's plenty of choice. Three models are available, with four different petrol and three diesel engines, ranging in price from &#163;13,795 to &#163;22,145 - with the top-of-the-range VXR version to follow early next year. All can be fitted with a panoramic windscreen which curls up over the roof for an extra &#163;850 - the only thing to break the sweep of the tinted glass is the rear mirror.The SRi, which I tested, comes complete with six-speed gearbox, electronic climate control, rain-sensitive wipers, automatic headlamps and even a novel 'hillstart assist' system which takes all the fun out of hillstarts by preventing the car from rolling backwards and scaring the driver behind you. There's also a Sport switch for improved steering and throttle response' - though why anyone would choose to have poorer steering and a dozy throttle, I can't imagine. The 2-litre engine only gives a combined consumption figure of 30.4mpg, though the diesel variant will see you doing another 25 miles to the same gallon.Once inside, it's all leather and brushed aluminium. You can almost feel designer stubble sprouting across your cheeks as you clutch the black and silver steering wheel and twiddle with the brushed rubber finger controls.Any crosses? Just one - but it's a big one. Visibility is awful - both to the front and the back. Clearly an oversight in Vauxhall's design department caused by their hot hatch's soaring temperature.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Any thoughts on a good browser? Firefox is becoming more and more like using dial up, while Opera's view isn't sufficiently configurable and half the screen appears to be taken up by the toolbars if you want the most useful ones visible -- the actual web page ends up scrunched up in the corner. IE isn't a good bet because of its poor security and lack of tabbed browsing and so on. Any thoughts? Patrick DoddsOpera may be the fastest browser, but no, I don't like it either. However, if you do a search for [speed up Firefox], you will find this is a widespread problem. The best place to start is probably theFirefox Tweak Guide, and especially the secton onPerformance Settings. I hope this solves the problem, and keeps you in the Firefox camp.However, although I recommend Firefox, it still has limitations. Not all sites (or applications) show the full functionality they offer via IE. Also, if you haven't used it for a bit, I find it takes forever to "wake up" from the Task Bar -- it might as well have crashed. I seem to download a new version of Firefox every month or two and it's getting worse rather than better. Tips welcome!As for IE, while I reckon it's still less secure than Firefox, I haven't actually had any problems with IE running on XP SP2 with all the latest patchesandthe Avast scanner running. (I'm also running the Google Toolbar for pop-up blocking and have most ActiveX/scripting options set to Disable or Prompt.)Of course, it doesn't do tabbed browsing, but there are various IE-based browsers that do, including MSN Explorer andAvantBrowser 10.1. This also has pop-up and ad blockers and claims to be "the fastest web browser on Earth". It might be worth a try.[Update] Another popular IE-based tabbed browse isMaxthon. I've just noticed it's claiming almost 40 million downloads. It's managed that without any advertising, and without the massive press coverage that has done so much to promote Firefox. I'm going to try it now....
The latest Google meme is that Google is really an advertising agency, and the latest example is a long article in The NewYork Times,Google Wants to Dominate Madison Avenue, Too.Google's financial success is based on its ability to deliver targeted ads based on your searches or other Web surfing. When the ads are better targeted, we click on them more often, which means advertisers buy more ads on Google, which makes it more profitable. It's a virtuous circle for Google, and a huge financial threat to everyody else.The article says:Google already sells its text ads for many other sites on the Internet (including nytimes.com), and is also moving tentatively to sell the picture-based interactive advertising preferred by marketers who want to promote brands rather than immediately sell products. Now it is preparing to extend its technology to nearly every other medium, most significantly television. It is looking toward a world of digital cable boxes and Internet-delivered television that will allow it to show commercials tailored for each viewer, as it does now for each Web page it displays.The scary bit is that Google can target ads better if it knows more about you. And if it knows everything you have ever seached for on Google, knows who your friends are (Orkut), has read all your email (Gmail) and instant messages and listened to your phone calls (Google Talk) then it may well know far about you than your parents, your spouse or your boss.With the yet-to-be-launched Google Base, it would not only get more information, it could also, some suggest, carry all sorts of classified ads, too. Google could thus replace eBay and Monster and make newspapers uneconomic.Of course, Google doesn't tie all your personal information together in a Big Brother-style database, yet. But if Google doesn't, then Yahoo or Microsoft MSN or some new service almost certainly will. At the moment, Google says it only uses location information (ZIP codes), but as the article says:Other Web sites are far more aggressive in using personal information. Yahoo will let marketers display ads to users based on demographic information the users provide as well as the users' surfing and searching history. Microsoft's new system for MSN explicitly allows advertisers to bid different prices for clicks from users of different ages, sexes and locations.And while targeted ads are a Good Thing, once all this information is assembled, it's going to be very hard to keep a lid on it. It's going to be a honey pot for governments who want to trawl the data for potential terrorists. Then, in helping the prevention of crime, search for gun runners, drug dealers, fanatical activists ... all the way down to people who don't pay their parking tickets.Sun boss Scott McNealy became notorious for saying: "You have no privacy, get over it." The general public doesn't yet have a clue how far this could go.
View imageOjos has just released the alpha version ofRiya, a photo-identification system (at the moment, invitation only).It's basically a face recognition system: you show it a picture of Fred, or whoever, and it tries to find all the other pictures of Fred in your photo album, or another album, or on the Web. Easy to say; damn hard to do.(Riya is named after the daughter of a member of staff. She was born with a heart defect and needed an operation.)
Last week the do-it-yourself online encyclopaedia Wikipedia came face to face with its own Ratner moment. The Ratner moment is so named after the gaffe perpetrated by Gerald Ratner back in 1991, when the British entrepreneur made the mistake of admitting that some of the merchandise being sold in his high street stores was "total crap".Wikipedia's own Ratner moment arrived when co-founder Jimmy Wales posted a message admitting that two entries - those for Bill Gates and Jane Fonda - were "a horrific embarrassment" and "nearly unreadable crap."The result has been to dampen the almost religious fervour which tends to cloud the judgment of worshippers at the Wiki. But his admission might be seen to have more fundamental implications than that. In his clever and hugely influential book The Wisdom of Crowds, James Surowiecki last year argued that the collective wisdom of large groups of people was usually superior to decisions arrived at by small groups of experts. Surowiecki's argument was a curious one. It was built on the sometimes eerie accuracy of "decision markets" in which members of the public are invited to take bets on the career prospects of celebrities and politicians. Surowiecki was particularly enamoured with the Policy Analysis Market, a short-lived initiative dreamed up by boffins at the US defence department in 2003 that encouraged the public to bet on future terrorist calamities in the hope they might do better than the experts. What was more, according to Surowiecki, the collective wisdom could only manifest itself when the judgments of each individual were arrived at independently and then totted up at the end.The Wisdom of Crowds saw the advance of human knowledge as akin to a giant quiz show, one which could only proceed if there were no conferring among the contestants. Surowiecki was arguing for the efficiency of markets in information, but such was the elegance of his thesis that it was soon being borrowed by supporters of voluntary online projects like Wikipedia. The collective judgment arrived at by harnessing the aggregate intelligence of millions, argued devotees of the Wiki, could make for a far more efficient and responsive reference tool than its competitors.The new humility of the Wikis can help us put the alleged wisdom of crowds in perspective. Surowiecki's kind of collective wisdom can be insightful, but only in limited situations - when new ideas or suggestions are badly needed, or when the only alternative is guesswork. Rather like the ranking of results on Google, Wikipedia is best seen as a global memory bank or conversation - an imperfect stream of consciousness which is constantly updating itself and making fruitful connections, but which is also susceptible to rumour and jitteriness, partisanship and old-fashioned rigging. Immerse yourself in the wisdom of these lonely crowds by all means, but rely on it at your peril.
After his last day at the BBC, Tom Coates has posted details of theAnnotatable Audioproject he's been working on:This post concerns an experimental internal-BBC-only project designed to allow users to collectively describe, segment and annotate audio in a Wikipedia-style fashion. It was developed by the BBC Radio &amp; Music Interactive R&amp;D team - for this project consisting of myself, Tristan Ferne, Chris Bowley, Helen Crowe, Paul Clifford and Bronwyn Van Der Merwe. Although the project is a BBC project, all the speculation and theorising around the edges is my own and does not necessarily represent the opinion of my department or the BBC in general.
Resident Evil 4PS2As hero Leon very insistently reiterates in the opening scene, the half-human thing that is attacking him is "definitely not a zombie". What it is, is one of "the infected", a far more mobile and cunning bunch of would-be flesh eaters than their lumbering forebears, who are also quite happy to whistle up their fiendish cohorts to flank you while they keep you busy with their rusty scythes and axes. Set in a European country whose currency is pesetas and whose language is Spanish (but which, according to the game's creator, is under no circumstances Spain), this is a creepy departure from more sedate and puzzle-led earlier outings, and easily the best Resident Evil to date. While this version is not quite as beautiful as that on GameCube, the five hours of new gameplay more than make up for that.&#183;Capcom, &pound;40Pac 'n RollNintendo DSDear old Pac-Man's Happy Eater-style face has now been promoting virtual gluttony and gender-neutral gaming for a total of 25 years. It seems, however, that old school 2D power pill ingestion and subsequent ghostbusting may not be anywhere near stimulating enough for today's gamer, brought up on a diet of 3D driving games, Tekken and Quake. Pac 'n Roll provides our old Pac-Man with a new third dimension and adds a Marble Madness-inspired mechanic that has you rolling around increasingly precarious mazes and solving simple kinetic puzzles. Using the DS screen and stylus, you roll Pac-Man in different directions to guide him, which is an immediately intuitive process. There are also two power-ups: a weighty suit of armour, allowing you to roll about under water or break open boxes, and a feather cap, lightening your load for longer jumps and sharper handling, both of which add further depth to this neat and eventually challenging puzzle-action game.&#183;Namco, &pound;30
With its crystal-clear screen and ability to play lengthy video files, it is with a sense of grim inevitability that Sony's latest console, the PSP (or PlayStation Portable), has been used to view pornography. Sony's reception of Japanese providers of gentlemen's relief videos reselling their material in PSP-friendly formats was to describe it as "utterly undesirable", however, in light of recent developments, this may be as effective in discouraging such content as asking a charging rhino to kindly stop, please. Greeting Sony's portable device as the first widely accepted Personal Movie Player, porn peddlers on both sides of the Atlantic are gearing up to provide adult content on pre-written Memory Sticks specially designed for use by PSP users aged 18 and over.
Robert Scoble, Microsoft geek blogger, just gave a talk at the invitation-only Google Zeitgeist conference.One of the conditions was that he wouldn't blog the conference, but he did make an amusing remark about his visit:I have to say that everyone at Google treated me extremely well. They didn't tell me any secrets (although I picked up a few hints) but they were, to a person, nice, smart, and fun to be around. I felt like I was at Microsoft. In fact, if it weren't for the color logo on the building, I wouldn't know that I had left Redmond.
MondayMusic non stopAdios EidosAmerica is DoomedTuesdayEthical PlayAh, AmericaPeter JacksonMobile GamesIran angeredWednesdayGiz in the USPro Evo fails to shine onlineWhat lengths we go to for a high scoreHandheld HandwrittenThursdayTechnology Section$100,000 real US bucks for a virtual space stationPac Man finds voiceFriday/a&gt;It's not just videogames that have a bad repSex and gamesCyber games UK
The UK National Final of theWorld Cyber Gamesis being held in London tomorrow (Sat 29th). Fifty top gamers will be competing to represent the UK at the finals in Singapore. Games include Counter-Strike Source and Dead or Alive Ultimate, but honestly, isn't this all a bit rubbish? I'm sure the fifty people actually taking part will have fun, and good luck to them, but as a spectator sport this has a long way to go. Can anyone honestly say they enjoy watching someone else play a first-person-shooter? Motion sickness is only one of the downsides. The organisers have tacitly admitted this anyway. Entry is free and one spectator will get the chance to head out to Singapore with the winning team. But let's face it, it's going to be a long time before gaming becomes a viable spectator sport.
Are you sitting comfortably? Forbes magazine's cover story,Attack of the Blogsby Daniel Lyons, begins with an intro that says:Web logs are the prized platform of an online lynch mob spouting liberty but spewing lies, libel and invective. Their potent allies in this pursuit include Google and Yahoo.The online text unfortunately requires an ID and password, but a key paragraph reads:Blogs started a few years ago as a simple way for people to keep online diaries. Suddenly they are the ultimate vehicle for brand-bashing, personal attacks, political extremism and smear campaigns. It's not easy to fight back: Often a bashing victim can't even figure out who his attacker is. No target is too mighty, or too obscure, for this new and virulent strain of oratory. Microsoft has been hammered by bloggers; so have CBS, CNN and ABC News, two research boutiques that criticized IBM's Notes software, the maker of Kryptonite bike locks, a Virginia congressman outed as a homosexual and dozens of other victims--even a right-wing blogger who dared defend a blog-mob scapegoat.Lyons argues that some bloggers report lies, and are exploited for that purpose:But if blogging is journalism, then some of its practitioners seem to have learned the trade from Jayson Blair. Many repeat things without bothering to check on whether they are true, a penchant political operatives have been quick to exploit. "Campaigns understand that there are some stories that regular reporters won't print. So they'll give those stories to the blogs," says Christian Grantham, a Democratic consultant in Washington who also blogs. He cites the phony John Kerry/secret girlfriend story spread by bloggers in the 2004 primaries. The story was bogus, but no blogger got fired for printing the lie. "It's not like journalism, where your reputation is ruined if you get something wrong. In the blogosphere people just move on. It's scurrilous," Grantham says.Obviously there is not going to be a shortage of bloggers defending their territory, so I'll just point to We-the-media man Dan Gillmor onForbes's Trashy Blog Attack.
The games rush has officially started now. In the last two days I have received review copies of Gun, Star Wars Battlefront, LA Rush, Without Warning, Top Spin (PS2), X Factor Karaoke and, most intriguingly,Psychonauts. The latter is the critically acclaimed platform/adventure title from thecreatorof Grim Fandango andFull Throttle, which sold about 7 copies in the US. An initial play promises great things - more on this next week. Obviously it is great to get these games to look at, but the question remains - why release so many titles in the latter part of the year?Games like Psychonauts and the majority of original or lower profile titles will get ignored as Christmas shoppers pick up their Kong's and Need for Speed. Around February and March, when the release list is relatively deserted would surely be the better time to launch and promote the more leftfield games.You only have to look back to the likes ofBeyond Good &amp; Evil, which was a pre-Christmas release, to see how great games can get ignored in the melee. It's so obvious you have to wonder why the publishers haven't twigged. In the meantime, do yourself a favour and look beyond the blockbusters this Christmas. You'll find some rubbish -Without Warning- but gems, such as Psychonauts, are waiting to be found.
What do you get the man who has everything? Spare a thought for the friends and family of Bill Gates: buying presents for the world's richest man is the kind of puzzle that few gift-givers would relish.Tonight Gates will blow out the candles for a personal landmark: his 50th birthday. In fact, it's been a year of big anniversaries for Gates - last month Microsoft, the monolithic software company which made him a billionaire, turned 30. It's hard to believe that the man - and his machines - are so young: for someone who's only just hitting his half century, Gates has packed in a remarkable amount.It took Coca-Cola about 30 years to reach the stock market, and at the same age McDonald's was just opening its first restaurants outside the US. Global domination? He's been there, done that and bought the company that made the T-shirts.As befits someone who has achieved so much, Gates has already seen several distinct phases in his life. He started out as a pre-pubescent programmer, then sold his first piece of software for $4,000 at the age of 17.Gates then made his way to Harvard, before dropping out. What followed were his halcyon days as the king of the nerds: a successful entrepreneur who built an incredibly successful company and helping define the computing boom that took hold in the 1980s.Even if his fashion sense was worthy of Napoleon Dynamite, his business acumen made a big impact, and in 1984 he first hit the cover of Time magazine - one of those milestone moments that mark out the rich and the powerful.A period of empire-building was followed by massive success for Microsoft. But it came at a cost: a series of anti-trust lawsuits and accusations of monopolistic behaviour hit the firm hard - Gates had created the biggest company on the planet, but turned into pantomime villain in the process.It's not a hard step for the imagination - after all, his personal power and extraordinary wealth puts him way ahead of any media mogul in history. And his obsessions - computer code, brain function and, reputedly, the size of his IQ - are exactly the kind of fixations that make him seem more like machine than man.Now, though, with anti-trust lawsuits out of the way, Gates almost has the air of a dilettante. He stepped back from day-to-day running of the company in 2000. He remains the chairman, but more of his time is spent with his wife and children in their massive hi-tech mansion outside Seattle that's worth in excess of $100m.Now Gates is entering the third stage of his career - a life as philanthropist, campaigner and, increasingly, political heavyweight.He's a Renaissance man, literally, with a library that houses a fortune in valuable manuscripts, including original work by Leonardo da Vinci. And when he fancies doing something more interesting than pottering around the house, Bill goes and signs a cheque or two.Through the foundation he set up with his wife, Melinda, Gates has pumped billions of dollars into charity organisations, particularly ones that aim to halt the spread of diseases in the developing world.In January he forked out $750m for vaccinations in Africa, and the foundation has a total endowment of around $28bn.So what's next for William Henry Gates III? After all, 50 is nothing. He's rich, powerful and has more cash in his back pocket than a small country.But while he keeps fairly quiet, it doesn't look as if he's going to do a Howard Hughes and disappear completely. No, it's much more likely that Gates - like any good geek - is going to just keep on going. And going. And going.After all, it's what he's programmed to do.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
I use webmail via btopenworld which is serviced by Yahoo. I no longer download my emails to my PC, as it is much more convenient to use webmail and I am still only 48% towards my 2GB limit. But when I went back to look for a specific email recently, virtually all the messages to one person (and there must have over 30) and his numerous responses had vanished from my Inbox and Sent box. How can this happen? Has anyone else had a similar experience? I certainly haven't deleted them and there are messages still in there from long before this correspondence. I assumed that the storage on webmail was secure. Carl GardnerBT claims to provide a "comprehensive support site athttp://www.bt.yahoo.com/help," which I can't access as I don't have an account. I doubt that it contains any help for missing mail, so you will have to try to get an email address for the support team and hope that your email can be retrieved.Either way, no, I don't believe you can rely on any webmail service to preserve your email. They may not delete it deliberately (like Hotmail) but they can lose mail due to technical errors or as a result of human or billing or banking errors (if the system thinks you have left the service, or whatever). There's also the risk that a webmail service provider will go bust, or its data centre might burn down, or it could be hit by an earthquake and slide into the sea.For security and ease of access, you should always keep a local copy of email or at least copy the really important messages to another webmail service such as Yahoo Mail or Gmail.
There are a couple of interesting conferences happening in Texas at the minute. Unfortunately, gamesblog's conference quota has been breached, so theAustin Game Conference, theWomen's Games Conferenceand theGame Writers Conferenceare out.Thankfully the world wide web has coverage of some of the more interesting elements, includingthis interviewwithBrenda Brathwaite, game designer of Playboy: The Mansion (among copious others) and one of the top tier at the IGDA's Sex in Games SIG, which she gave to Next Generation before hosting a panel at the WGC.The problem is we haven't figured out how to show relationships in a game. That makes it really challenging to create good quality stories that include sexual content. We're some way from making a videogame version of the Graduate.
Lara Croft is back. Well almost. US developer Crystal Dynamics has slipped its princely arms beneath her lifeless frame and carried her off to be regenerated for a new audience. But can Lara do it again? Can she recapture the heady days of the late nineties when her featureless face and ridiculous polygon breasts lurched at us from every lads mag and lifestyle publication we happened across.Looking back, it all seems pretty tawdry – how intelligent people were moved to comment on the desirability of a collection of texture-mapped shapes, how we all revelled in the anecdotes of a game designer's slip that landed her with a chest no human frame could support. What on earth were we thinking of?So anyway, now she's back and by the look of things, Crystal Dynamics may well be producing a very good adventure, with a proper character at its centre - something Core resolutely failed to do for most of Croft's previous existence. Which brings us to the question of the day:What have been the greatest videogame comebacks of all time?Straightforward sequels don't count - there must be several years, or one hardware generation, or a change in development teams between appearances. Here are five to get you thinking...Super Mario 64Genius, a ridiculously over-used term, can be safely applied here. Miyamoto's 3D rendering of Mushroom Kingdom is a design masterpiece, perfectly updating and expanding the 2D landscapes of old. The user-interface, too, was at least five years ahead of its time. But here's the important thing: never again has the joy of creation been so evident in a game. Super Mario 64 arrived in the Edge Magazine office when I was on my fifth or sixth issue as writer. Work just stopped. Everyone gathered around the screen, the production editor spent a solid three days trying to find every single star. Completed pages piled up in his in-tray. A deadline loomed... and passed...Actually, when I say 'everyone gathered around the screen' I should say everyone but me. I had to review Pilot Wings 64 and amidst all the excitement I over-rated it.Grand Theft Auto IIITake a cult overhead-viewed PC series, a relic really of Amiga game design sensibilities, make it 3D and repackage it for the crazy casual PlayStation generation. Watch as it becomes a phenomenon. Repeat every year until loaded.Return to Castle WolfensteinHobbled perhaps by grossly inflated expectations and featuring a disappointingly brief single player mode, the return of the FPS godfather was nevertheless a modest triumph, sporting as it did, a fantastic multiplayer mode. Certainly, no one who played the original (I did, far too much, on a friend's 386 at college) could resist.Tempest 2000Certainly not a great comeback in terms of commercial success - the poor sales of the Atari Jaguar saw to that - but Jeff Minter's idiosyncratic ode to the original Dave Theurer coin-op was a sublime piece of programming showmanship. Surreal effects, interactive music, pixel perfect design. Utterly compelling, and a major influence, surely, on the subsequent work of Tetsuya Mizuguchi.Prince of Persia: Sands of TimeForget the reasonable Prince of Persia 3D from 1999,thiswas the true comeback for Jordan Mechner's revolutionary adventure title. Lovely acrobatic controls, a stirring plot, interesting puzzles and a time-warp gimmick. Comparisons made at the time with Super Mario 64 may have beenslightlyfanciful, but they conveniently take us full-circle...Over to you.
GamePoliticshas a post on public perceptions of a Live-Action Role Playing convention which may sound familliar to Friends of Video Games:Klein's article is the definitive work on live-action role playing (LARP), a hobby for folks who like their RPG up close and personal. Perhaps not surprisingly, many of the same criticisms leveled at video gamers - addiction, obsession, geekiness, bloodthirsty - are directed at the LARP crowd.The just don't get it, do they. And what they don't get, they fear. "Blurring a critical line between reality and fantasy"?! Oh for goodness sake. Let them have fun!Original article in theDetroit Metro Times.
I've been looking for this record for about 20 years," the buyer of Bedtime Stories Read By Johnny Morris told Dave Kellard, manager of Plastic Wax records in Bristol. The comment was typed, rather than spoken, and posted on auction website eBay's feedback mechanism. But the buyer was happy, as was Kellard: the bidding reached &#163;30 for an item he reckons would have gone for a fiver in the shop.If Nick Hornby was a Bristolian, the Championship Vinyl record shop in his novel High Fidelity would probably have been based on Plastic Wax. Bristol City may be less successful than Hornby's team Arsenal, but there's nothing League One about Plastic Wax: open for a quarter of a century, it has 160,000 items of stock in one location, including numerous rare recordings. Although it was bought by stamp seller Stanley Gibbons in the late 1990s, it is run as a standalone business.In other words, it is the antithesis of a recently-opened e-commerce business. But in May last year, Kellard opened an account with eBay. "If you read Record Collector, shops complain about eBay, saying it's making them disappear," he explains. "We're not doing too badly, but we've taken eBay on to promote rare items and hit the worldwide market."Since eBay opened its first website 10 years ago this month - covering the suburban sprawl around the San Francisco Bay known as the Bay Area, hence the name - it has attracted 157 million users using 33 versions worldwide. eBay's UK site opened in October 1999, and has more than 10 million registered users.
Although some sellers use eBay to dispose of the odd item or two, 724,000 Americans depend on such sales as their primary or secondary source of income, according to July figures from AC Neilsen. eBay UK estimates that there are more than 10,000 Britons in the same boat.This is big business. The UK, eBay's fastest-growing country, saw auctions last year with a total value of $3.7bn. Worldwide, the auctions which closed in April, May and June this year totalled $10.9bn, generating profits of $292bn.
The income comes largely from charges made of sellers, and these can add up. Someone selling an item for 99p with the cheapest 15p listing, and accepting credit card payment through eBay -owned PayPal - as the eBay website strongly encourages sellers to do, although it is not compulsory - would receive just 56p, if they charge postage at cost. As the listing and part of the PayPal charge are fixed, the margins improve with the size of the deal - a &#163;9.99 item sold the same way leaves the seller with &#163;8.78.Kellard says he reckons that a quarter of the value of such sales goes to eBay or PayPal. Plastic Wax has placed around 2,000 items on eBay, with such sales now making up a bit less than 10% of its overall business. "You get very good money for some items," Kellard says, although many fall to "snipers" who bid in the last moments of an auction, securing a bargain.Azita Qadri, small business manager for eBay UK, says there are ways to cut the cost of selling low-value items, such as fixed-price multiple item auctions which require only a single listing fee. She says that practice helps when selling on eBay: "Most people's first sales on eBay are not a success."But given time, Qadri says that eBay provides small businesses with an additional sales channel for selling excess stock, reaching a global audience and providing sales outside their usual high season. Furthermore, eBay does not require the time and money upfront needed to establish an e-commerce website, she says: "We have to tell people who got their fingers burnt &#91;on e-commerce sites&#93; that this is really simple."However, running each auction does take time. "It is quite labour-intensive: doing images, keeping records, sending things out," says Kellard, who employs someone part-time to do this.Auction managementThe experience of selling a couple of hundred of items on eBay when moving house prompted Christian Braun to found Auctioning4U, which manages auctions on behalf of clients: similar businesses already exist in the US.
For individuals, Auctioning4U charges a third of the sale price (including fees) for items above &#163;30, &#163;10 for items that sell for less than &#163;30, or the whole sale price for items below &#163;10. In return, it lists the item, writes descriptions, takes photos, stores it in its warehouse, handles the auction, collects the payment and posts the item.The idea is to save customers the bother. "They leave it with us or have it collected, and they never see it again," says Braun, chief executive of the firm founded in April 2003. "They just get the money." The firm will also work with businesses.The first shop opened in Kensington Olympia in June 2004, and there are now four, with a further four opening over the next few weeks, all so far in London. One of the soon-to-open shops is a franchise, this expansion method being something the company is keen to develop. So far, the firm has raised &#163;1m in angel investor funding, with venture capital currently under negotiation.
Braun says that selling a single item on eBay can take two hours from start to finish. Auctioning4U reckons it can offer efficiency through software and processes which deal with listings in bulk, but also expertise."You need to use the 55 letters in the header," he says of eBay 's space-limited auction titles. "If you don't get the keywords in, it's like being three streets behind Oxford Street - shoppers will not find you." Braun collects chess sets, but eBay lists thousands: he says the trick is to recognise, for example, a set used in the Zagreb world championship, and emphasise that in the title and description. Auctioning4U employs a number of part-time experts to this end.Another trick is to use 99p starting prices with no reserve, except for items of interest to very few people. "eBay has a number of purposes, including entertainment," says Braun. "People like to get a bargain, a thrill. They start bidding at 99p, then they take ownership of it." Braun says that as bidders are sent emails and text messages when they are outbid, momentum develops, resulting in higher final prices.Unlike Plastic Wax records, Auctioning4U relies on eBay for all its business. Braun says that the firm looked into numerous rivals, including auction site QXL and Amazon, which allows fixed-price third-party sales. However, "we want to get our customers the best price for their item, and unfortunately there are no alternatives at the moment. It's a winner takes all market: the buyers go where there are the most items, and items where there are the most buyers". He adds that the number of competitors provides some protection against eBay deciding to hike its prices.WeblinksPlastic Wax Recordswww.plasticwaxrecords.comAuctioning4Uwww.auctioning4u.co.ukeBay Small Business Centrehttp://pages.ebay.co.uk/businesscentre
A battered and grubby brake pipe is resting on the meeting table at GNER's headquarters in York. Three days earlier it ruptured unexpectedly, sending the highly compressed air inside roaring out. The drop in pressure automatically triggered the train's braking system."This usually happens in the dark and when it's raining," says Tony Brown, GNER's fleet engineer. Fortunately, the driver was carrying a spare and was able to replace the pipe. After 30 minutes, the train was on the move again - though knock-on delays to other services meant that the split pipe was responsible for a total of 185 minutes' delay to passengers."We need to understand why it's broken, whether it's been struck by something on the track - in which case it's not GNER's fault," says Brown. "I want to have a forensic analysis done on it." The rest of the safety team peer at the gash in the material. "Look at the tear. Something sharp hit it."Working out the underlying cause of a mechanical failure is always going to be vital in trying to prevent it happening again. But it is also important to GNER because punctuality is one of the criteria on which the company's performance is judged. The longer passengers were delayed through its own fault, the more likely it is that a train operator will lose its franchise.GNER has won the right to continue to run the East Coast franchise until 2012, with an extension to 2015 if the company's performance merits it. Around four-fifths of the delays to its trains are attributable to Network Rail, Railtrack's successor, which controls most of the railway's infrastructure. That proportion includes such hazards as lineside fires, flooding, storms and trespassing. The rest is due to "self-caused delay". Punctuality is something of an obsession at GNER: managers carry pagers that are regularly updated with the percentage of trains that arrived within 10 minutes of their scheduled time. Brown shows me the 94% figure on his. So far, so good, but it's still only lunchtime.Control roomInside the company's control room, staff are talking on the phone to Network Rail and their drivers and watching a large screen. In the corner, BBC News 24's headlines warn of events that may affect the railway; below is a diagram of tracks, signals and train movements between King's Cross and Alexandra Palace. As I watch, one train passes a signal and heads north through Belle Isle, the stretch of track just south of Finsbury Park. On the right is a list of all GNER's trains, colour-coded according to their punctuality - or lack of it. The trains approaching Aberdeen and the rest of the far north are losing 10 to 15 minutes. That's probably because of speed restrictions, explains the control centre manager, Peter Fisher. The rest of the fleet are showing green or amber.Fisher turns to his PC and calls up the whereabouts of the 16.32 from York, which I plan to catch back to London later that afternoon. Because the train is one of GNER's refitted Mallards and has Wi-Fi, it can be tracked via GPS. The 16.32 is making good progress as it passes through Berwick-upon-Tweed.Unlike Virgin on the West Coast line, GNER did not need to completely replace its rolling stock. Just one new set of the Mark 4 carriages, which have at least 15-20 years of service left in them, would have cost the company around &#163;15m. The Mallard upgrade costs &#163;100,000 per carriage."It is of absolutely no satisfaction to Tony Brown of GNER that Virgin are having problems with their rolling stock," says Brown. New trains invariably have teething problems, he says. "And there's a lesson there for the industry. If you go and invest serious money it is going to have a negative effect on train performance."He says the accidents at Hatfield and Selby have taught GNER a great deal about minimising the casualties in a crash. The tip-up seats in the vestibules have gone, because that part of the carriage tends to suffer the greatest damage in an end-on collision. The rest of the seats are less likely to injure passengers in the event of a crash than the old metal ones. "We've strengthened the Mark 4 rail stock in subtle ways such that it's more capable of withstanding impact like the ones at Hatfield," says Brown. "One of the things I'm most pleased about is the fact that our trains now have laminated glass. There's a mechanism to shatter the centre window to provide an escape route. It fires a spring with two huge chisels. Then you simply push the whole window out."Plunged into darknessThe derailment at Selby damaged the underfloor equipment. "All these poor individuals were deaccelerated, derailed and plunged into darkness. So we've fitted an LED lighting system into the train." In the event of a crash the ceiling of the carriage would be illuminated. GNER has also been able to keep a couple of spare trains in reserve at the Alexandra Palace depot. "That's great," says Brown, with some pride. "It's known as hot standby."By 4pm, when the night shift are due to be briefed, the safety team are informed of a problem at Hadley Wood, where a dropper - one of the coathanger-like parts of the overhead line - has fallen off. "It happens about 300 times a year," says Brown. The responsibility for replacing it lies with Network Rail, and the length of the delay depends on whether the problem is on a two-lane or a four-lane track.The team are also preoccupied with the fallout from an incident on June 23, when a broken cable halted services near Peterborough. After the restaurant ran out of water and champagne, overheated passengers decided to smash their way out of the carriages - or "self-evacuate", as Brown puts it - when the temperature rose, and an Anglian TV crew happened to be within striking distance of the neighbouring field. GNER has undertaken to carry extra bottles of water between May and September and more ladders to enable passengers to climb down from the train.Engineer Anna Heathcote, meanwhile, is working on the delicate relationship between the quality of the ride, the train and the track geometry - a task that requires frequent liaison with Network Rail. "Over the years lots of people have tried to find a formula for that, but we've found the best thing is to sit on the train." Every few months she undertakes a "coffee cup run" to check the smoothness of the ride and lobby Network Rail and the Department of Transport for upgrades. "Having a civil engineer means we can have an informed input into these deliberations."Next May the GNER control team will join their counterparts at the Northern franchise and Network Rail in a bigger, purpose-built building nearby. "At the moment we have to call Network Rail when we want to talk to them," says Fisher. "The lesson we've learnt over the years is that it works better when we're together." For Brown, the privatisation is beginning to bear fruit: "I think we've achieved more than we could have done under public ownership," he says, citing the loan GNER obtained for the Mallard project. "That's the way privatisation works well. I strike a commercial deal and at the end of the day we've managed to get what we wanted."The 16.32 arrives at King's Cross a few minutes late. The train service manager apologises for the defective toilets in a couple of the carriages. Engrossed in checking my email, the faint lavatorial whiff passes me by.
We've teamed up with eBay, the world's biggest auction site, to offer five readers the chance to win &#163;1,500 to set up their own eBay business.The five will then compete against each other over three months, and a series of challenges, to see who shows the greatest Business Sense of all. The winner - the person who increases their seed money by the greatest amount - will win a further &#163;2,500.Business Sense will follow each eBay entrepreneur's fortunes over the next three months. Along the way, the five competitors will get trained in the art of becoming a top eBay seller, with advice from some of the site's best vendors.To enter, all you have to do is go towww.guardian.co.uk/sme, and follow the links to the entry page. We'll ask you to leave your details, and tell us why you're the perfect person to be given &#163;1,500, all that free advice, and the chance to win a further &#163;2,500. The deadline for entries is Friday, November 4 2005. Terms and conditions apply - you can read them on the online entry form.Winners will be chosen by our expert panel, and notified of their good fortune next month. So log on now and tell us why you think your idea will meet the eBay challenge.
BooksAuthors dissect the modern businesswomanAmong the business books on offer this month is A Woman's Place is in the Boardroom by Peninah Thomson and Jacey Graham, with Tom Lloyd (Palgrave Macmillan). It's not a book that preaches from a presupposed political point of view, mercifully; instead the authors take their experience, analyse it and come to the unsurprising conclusion that discounting half of the human race before you start is no way to recruit an efficient board of directors.They establish that there is an appetite for promotion among senior women. They get a lot of chief executives talking about how women in the boardroom offer benefits, as part of embracing the diversity within an organisation. They offer a few strategies to evangelise the role of women in the boardroom and note also the difficulties caused by some candidates who, once they get the promotion they appear to deserve, effectively pull the ladder up behind them and make sure no more follow.The difficulty I had with this book was that it should all go without saying. Clearly it doesn't yet, so detached and calm books like this need to be written, but a lot of the content serves mostly to substantiate the obvious. Worth reading for the practical tips and strategies, but my guess is a lot of people will skim through a great deal of the research.Former Next boss tells his extraordinary storyBack on the printed page, David Jones has written Next to Me (Nicholas Brealey Publishing). Jones was the leader of Next when it went from &#163;25m to &#163;3.5bn on the stock exchange. So far, so impressive-but-routine; the book's introduction opens, however, with Jones' discovery that he has Parkinson's disease. The bulk of the book then deals with the rise of Next and with Jones' upbringing. The Next stuff comes first. The power struggle over Grattan and the sale of it to keep Next afloat, bringing the retail side of Next back under control - there's a lot to learn from Jones, who here is admirably frank about mistakes as well as his triumphs. When Next fouled up the womenswear offering, that's what he tells the reader.It's difficult to read the rest of the book without feeling the presence of the illness in the background somewhere all the time, and this is how Jones appears to have lived his life. At a crucial dinner engagement in the Next saga his hands start shaking; he's already had to take medication to allow him to play the tennis that was supposed to restore relations with George Davis, who was to become his nemesis when it came to working out how to rescue the ailing business. Even when he discusses his earlier years you're acutely aware of what's coming.Jones freely acknowledges he's lucky, though, to be dealing with such an illness as a wealthy man, which allows him to talk about his luck without any irony. He's clearly not bitter about his lot, and the result is a readable book about a remarkable experience with plenty of solid business advice as well as the autobiographical content.DVDsSimple steps to effective brandingI thought I suddenly had a livelier job when a pink-packaged DVD set entitled Lover's Guide came through the letterbox; you can imagine the crushing disappointment when I realised it was actually the Lover's Guide to Brand Persuasion: A Masterclass in Brand Communication, from Shoulders of Giants, &#163;59.99. The blurb describes it as a digital video book (DVB), which can be watched on a computer or television. Tony Hawks is your host for interviews with people from Vodafone, Bartle Bogle Hegarty and Interbrand. These people have never been brought to the same place before, says the blurb, neatly avoiding the fact that since it's all edited together on DVD they haven't been brought together now either.The content is useful. Ideas such as the ideal brief being a single page and Powerpoint being less impressive than something you've written down and are explaining, how creative people don't actually like an open brief offering them free reign (the rumour is that they love this, and it's nonsense), the importance of managing expectations realistically, team building - it's well worth looking at. Whether it's worth the retail price and whether the average small business manager will have the time to sit down and watch a double DVD is another thing entirely; if branding is important to your business it will be time well invested.GadgetsThe USB drive that allows you to get personalThe most interesting-sounding gadget to come to our attention this month is the smart USB drive. The difference between these and any other small USB memory drive is that not only can they contain inert data but, say the manufacturers, they'll be able to carry applications and personal settings - so, plug them in and a computer should start feeling like your own.Of course, that's according to the manufacturers - keep an eye on the
blog athttp://blogs.guardian.co.uk/businessinsightto see how the products shape up in practice.Also on the blog ...Bra maestro offers product marketing tipsSpeaking of the blog, there's been a lot in it about bras just lately. Guardian Unlimited's Mark Tran spoke to Michelle Mone, 33-year-old owner of MJM International, which makes the Ultimo bra. She offers some insights into product marketing and her own naivete when she started off, and also some controversial comments on paying people only just above the minimum wage in China (this being &#163;1 an hour).A lot of readers commented on that, and also on some of Mone's other HR policies. The thing about the blog is that the readers can join in - log on and have a look. Other items that have excited a lot of debate recently have included stories on the moving retirement age, the nature of entrepreneurs and how few parents would like their kids to go through it and holidays causing more stress than relief from work.
Welcome to the October edition of Business Sense, the monthly guide to the latest technology and thinking for small and medium-sized businesses.
Inside this edition, being published this month only on a Friday (normally, we appear with the Technology section on a Thursday), you'll meet the people charged with the unenviable task of making a British train line run on time, find out from columnist Nick Clayton how to be in two places at once, and discover that British banks have somehow overcharged businesses &#163;5bn.Also this month, we're issuing you with a challenge. Maybe you don't yet run your own business - but have been daydreaming about turning your hobby into a nice little earner. Or maybe you've sold something online and thought, "I wonder if I could make a living doing that?".Well, today we offer you the chance to put someone else's money where your month is.We've teamed up with eBay, the world's biggest online auction site, to offer five readers &#163;1,500 to set up their own eBay businesses.We'll then follow the five as they compete against each other to make the biggest return on the initial investment, through their own eBay businesses.Along the way, eBay will provide a wealth of advice from experts - including a trip to their "eBay academy" to learn from some of the site's most successful sellers. And we'll also be setting some challenges, to see if our entrepreneurs can handle the unexpected, as well as make their own ideas fly. The winner, to be announced in the New Year, will walk away with a further &#163;2,500, as well as their profits.To make the cut, you've got to impress us with your "elevator pitch" - that snappy summery of your business idea that's short enough to be communicated in a lift ride, and startling enough to make it stand out for our judges.If you're looking for inspiration, our feature about the entrepreneurs using online auctions to build new business - might give you a few ideas. We'll be featuring the five contestants in next month's edition. Good luck!
What exactly is a smartphone? That's not as daft a question as it might sound, as you'll gather, and the issue of whether to buy a smartphone, a hand-held computer or something else entirely is no longer as straightforward as it used to be.For example, I own an Apple Macintosh, but I could just as easily work on a PC full time. I have recently taken possession of a new phone, free with my existing contract. The phone takes pictures up to two megapixels, but that's not all it does. Like the last one, it took about five minutes before I had all of my diary appointments on it. I could have had all of my contacts on it as well, but I prefer to keep a smaller group on my phone. It'll play music and pick up my emails without difficulty.A couple of years back these functions would have made this a very smart phone indeed. But that's no longer the case - it's pretty basic, even if it does those things wirelessly. So we'll take the term "smartphone" to mean something that at least carries documents around and preferably does some other things as well; quite honestly, if you don't need to carry documents, just have a look at what's on your existing phone or the next upgrade.This is why I've included a couple of non-smartphone options as well in this round-up.The hand-held computer:Palm T/XIt's black, it's slim, it's a full-functioning Palm device. This means emails, appointments, Powerpoint presentations, Word and Excel documents, and all that's been in Palm before. On this occasion it means Wi-Fi and Bluetooth - it found and joined my Wi-Fi network at home effortlessly, and the large screen responded quickly to commands. The text entry space is now on the screen and disappears at will so you can use the whole screen rather than part of it for presentations, and it zips between portrait and landscape modes very easily.It also has a number of extras; an MP3 player, when combined with a memory card, will offer hours of music and any set of earphones will fit into the slot. Set-up is easy, although people wanting the comfort of something looking exactly like Outlook on their PC will prefer the Microsoft-based offering.No doubt this time next year &#163;249.99 will look on the pricey side for Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and all those applications built in; for the moment it represents excellent value. PC users might prefer something with the phone built in - for me that's a disadvantage, as it means I can't leave the "business" bit device when I'm out socially and still want the phone.Price:&#163;249.99Maker's URL:euro.palm.com/ukPros:slim, a pushover to set up, very functionalCons:no cradle, presumably in a bid to keep the price downStar rating:4 starsThe combined phone and PC:iPaq hw6515If you can't make your mind up whether to get a hand-held computer plus a phone, or a smartphone or indeed a geographical positioning system, then you could do worse than a Hewett-Packard iPaq hw6500. It has everything in one unit.It benefits from clear, straightforward documentation and setting up is very straightforward. The touch-sensitive screen is complemented by a qwerty keyboard on the body of the device; for my thumbs the keyboard was too small to be of any practical use.Anyone accustomed to Windows applications will find using the product very simple indeed. The opening screen has links into all the common applications and pull-down menus take you easily into the rest. Additional memory cards (which you can buy as extras) will let you store music, pictures and video, and the software all comes preinstalled.The drawback - if it is truly a drawback - is that it's all in one unit. Not only is this bad news for geeks, but it's bad news for someone who might not want to lose hand-held computing, phone and GPS all in one the moment the battery dies. So, you might respond, don't let the battery run down - which is fine as long as you're the organised type. But you'll still lose the lot temporarily if it needs to go in for repair.Price:&#163;439.95 sim freeMaker's URL:www.hp.co.ukPros:everything including GPS and it looks like WindowsCons:pokey keyboard and whatever you do, don't leave it on the busStar rating:4 starsThe smartphone:Nokia 9300When is a phone not a phone? Well, when it opens up and becomes a full-blown computer with a qwerty keyboard, sporting a full messaging suite as well as its own word processor, spreadsheet and presentations package, plus a web browser and personal voice memo system. The size is striking - it feels like a chunky phone until you put it next to its predecessor, the 9500, which must be 25% or so bigger. In fact the 9300 is just a shade larger than the very popular Sony Ericsson t610.This is not necessarily an advantage. The 9500 is chunkier than the current version but this meant that the keyboard was more accessible - the smaller phone really needs a thumbs-only approach, which isn't all that comfortable. There's no faulting the software, however; it installed simply and synchronises with a PC in minutes, so all of your appointments, contacts and whatever else you might want off your computer - unless you're a Mac user, in which case it's a bit tough.It's also strangely gratifying to find a highly-specced phone that doesn't have a gratuitous camera on it. The 9500 does, and frankly it's difficult to understand why a business user with a phone like this would want it - they're not boys' toys and they don't fit comfortably into the pocket of a pair of jeans, so why the gimmicks?Price:around &#163;375 sim freeMaker's URL:www.nokia.co.ukPros:contains everything you're likely to need in a small packageCons:size works against it when you want to use the keyboard for any length of timeStar rating:4 starsOther smartphones:T-Mobile MDA Pro, i-Mate JamOther Windows mobiles are available and they make up a strong offering. Of the ones examined for this feature the i-Mate Jam scores well for two reasons; first, it's available without a contract and therefore scores over some of the competition if you don't particularly want to change your operator or simply aren't due for a review yet; and second, it has a phone and a large screen. It also gets brownie points for simplicity - you do most of the navigating from the scroll button on the front and if you're a Windows user it's very intuitive.The T-Mobile MDA Pro is a similar device with a few extra bells and whistles, for example the fact that it opens up like a clamshell and offers a reasonably-sized keyboard and a screen - think "laptop in the palm of your hand" and you'll get the picture. There's also a video cam on board. At a similar size to the early iPaqs this is a lot to find in a single device and you can load extra applications through a memory card; it's a pity that you need to change your phone service provider to T-Mobile to get at it.Price:&#163;399.99 for the MDA Pro depending on contract; &#163;369.99 for i-Mate Jam from ExpansysURLs:www.t-mobile.co.uk,www.clubimate.comPros:a lot of functions for not a lot of money relatively speakingCons:the T-Mobile is tied to contractsStar rating:4 stars eachThe iPodYou can now have video on your iPod, as you'll probably have read in the last week or two. What's likely to be more interesting to the business customer is that you can use your iPod as a full-blown PDA. That's what a lot of the software sellers will tell you anyway - so I thought I'd have a look and see how well it worked.It's easy for us Mac users. The diary and contacts synchronise with iCal and Address Book with no need for extra software. For Microsoft Entourage or Outlook users in the PC world there are plenty of inexpensive programs to make sure the thing synchronises fluently - I used a program called iPod It, and there are plenty of alternatives atwww.pocketmac.com.Mostly it works very well. A couple of appointment times became scrambled, but when you've installed multiple organiser programmes for a group evaluation like this, all sorts of things can go wrong through no fault of the manufacturers. Overall it's a nice way of keeping track and of course carrying your music around with you.The downside, very clearly, is the complete absence of any data input when you're out. This isn't a criticism of the iPod, which was never, really never, designed as a business tool or "serious" machine.Price:&#163;219 for a 30 gigabyte modelMaker's URL:www.apple.com/ukPros:clear display, diary and contacts displayed nicelyCons:no data entry without a computer and negligible search in contactsStar rating:3 stars as a PDA, but nobody seriously expects it to work in this way
Last year I had a cunning communications plan which I hoped would make it look as if I was in Britain while I was really in Ibiza. It was simple. I'd leave a phone line in Edinburgh on permanent divert to my home in the sun. After all, few people actually saw me in the course of work. I was just a disembodied voice on the phone, or words in an email.Despite my already virtual work existence I was concerned that moving a few thousand miles away would be a psychological barrier for the people who pay for my services. Setting up a diversion wouldn't be expensive, just line rental and, at most, 4p a minute for calls transferred to Spain. Using a cheap "carrier pre select" (CPS) service meant I wouldn't even have to pay BT's international rates.Of course, nothing's simple. For a start, BT's diversions have to be set up from the home phone, but I didn't know what my Spanish number was going to be. And, by the time I had a line set up, my Edinburgh flat was being let out in order to pay the rent in Ibiza.Then, once the diversion was apparently working properly, I couldn't understand why the phone would ring once and stop. It turned out business contacts were fooled by the Spanish ring tone's similarity to the British engaged tone. When I did manage to grab the phone before the caller hung up, there would be complaints about a disconcerting echo on the line. I quickly gave up pretending to be in the UK, but, much to my surprise, being by the Mediterranean often worked in my favour. I was living the dream of many of my business contacts and they seemed to enjoy having somebody to moan to about the weather. Suddenly I also went from being a techie hack to being somebody vaguely exotic.My new location was even partly responsible for getting me one job, as web editor for the August Club, an online organisation for retired and soon-to-retire professionals. There I was, a practical demonstration of how you can earn a living in the sun as a consultant, without even the cushion of the pension enjoyed by most of the club's members.But actually, even within the space of a few months, technology has advanced to the point where nobody needs to know where in the world I am when they phone me. That's the wonder of internet telephony.I've been a Skype enthusiast almost since it launched, a whole two years ago. Computer to computer calls over broadband are generally of a much higher quality than ordinary phone calls. They're also free. That makes Skype great for keeping in touch and the August Club runs on its conference-call facility. But, even though you can now make and receive Skype calls to or from a landline, you still have to keep a computer switched on. And a headset remains the best way to use Skype.Now, I don't mind that call centre look. But really what I want is a substitute phone service and Vonage is the best I've found so far. It comes with a box which hooks up to your broadband router, then you plug in an ordinary phone. That's it. Because I bought it in Britain it behaves as if that's where I am. I have an Edinburgh number and a subscription which allows me to make unlimited calls to UK landlines for less than &#163;10 a month.To all intents and purposes I have now created a situation where I live in Ibiza and work in Scotland. Yesterday I interviewed two venture capitalists, one apparently in Edinburgh, the other in Aberdeen. In fact they were both in London. It was only after the inevitable ice-breaking conversation about the weather that we all admitted that phone diversions meant we weren't where we seemed to be. The difference was they were in city offices with the prospect of either an impersonal hotel room or hours of trains, planes and automobiles. I was already where I wanted to be.&#183;Nick Clayton is a freelance writer, editor of the August Club website and a web content consultant
Chris Wright, by his own admission, isn't a "techie", but his business sense is beyond dispute. Three years ago, Wright and two colleagues left secure jobs at Coca-Cola to set up Feel Good Drinks, a company making healthy drinks in flavours such as orange and mango, and cranberry and lime. That first year, turnover was &#163;120k. Today, it's &#163;5m, and the company's products are sold in 10,000 retail outlets in the UK and abroad.So when Wright says that wireless technology has made a significant difference to his business, your ears prick up. Feel Good Drinks has a core staff of only 16, consisting mainly of sales and marketing people: the labour-intensive parts of the business, such as manufacturing and distribution, are contracted out. The problem the company faced was that most of its customers are large, geographically dispersed chains - companies like Boots and Tesco - which means that the sales staff spend a lot of their time going from place to place. "There's a vast amount of down time involved in travelling, particularly when the guys are behind the wheel of a car, pretty much unable to do anything," says Wright.The company's solution was to switch their main mode of travel from cars to trains, enabling sales staff to take their laptops with them and work while on the move. All 13 company laptops are wireless-enabled, which means that staff can not only work on documents and spreadsheets, they can use Wi-Fi ("wireless fidelity") hotspots to send and receive emails, browse the web and connect to the office network.The result? Sales staff have saved six to eight hours a week by working during dead time. It's also been good for their relationships with customers, says Wright: "Speed of response is very useful. If you can get back to a buyer within an hour of the meeting and send a follow-up email, that's impressive and shows you're keen and on the case rather than waiting 24 hours to send something through."
Although wireless networks in offices are increasingly common, hotspots have been slower to take off, and one analyst has even referred to them as the next dotcom bubble. The idea is simple enough. Wi-Fi hotspots work by broadcasting a wireless frequency that connects a user's laptop or PDA to a wired network, and from there to the internet. As long as users sit within a 100m range of a hotspot, they can connect to the internet at broadband speed. Provided the laptop is equipped with Intel's Centrino chip - and these days, the vast majority are - no further equipment is needed (Apple users can get Wi-Fi cards that work in exactly the same way with the same hotspots).Wireless hotspotsThe trouble is that finding wireless hotspots isn't always easy. Although the number of hotspots is growing all the time (the number globally is predicted to be 100,000 by the end of this year, and there are already 1,000 in London), you may find yourself wandering around for a while before you find them. Airports and most major hotel chains tend to have them, as do many pubs and branches of McDonald's, Starbucks and Costa Coffee. But most business travellers wanting email access don't want the inconvenience of having to look for a Starbucks or a McDonald's first, says Mark Blowers, senior research analyst at the Butler Group: "If you're staying overnight in a hotel, and the hotel has Wi-Fi, that's fine, but if you're travelling about in the car, you'd have to stop and know where the hotspot is and go to that cafe to use it. If you're travelling about I'm not certain it's the right technology to use."The other drawback is cost. Wireless Internet Service Providers (WISPs) make a charge for usage based on time spent. A wireless hotspot provided by BT OpenZone, for example, will cost &#163;6 an hour, though if you don't use up a full hour, you can carry the credit over to use next time you access an OpenZone hotspot. (Of course, if the next hotspot you use is provided by, say, T-Mobile, you'll find yourself paying all over again.)Blowers argues that for many businesses, using a 3G-enabled mobile phone or PDA to connect to the internet is still a better option than Wi-Fi. Although connection speeds are slower, they enable users to connect to the internet at any time. If you just want to check email, he points out, you could use a Blackberry.Why, then, has Feel Good Drinks gone for the Wi-Fi option? "I don't think the validity of Wi-Fi is about being constantly online," says Wright. "It's about being able to pick things up and send things once in a while. And it's about the sales team having the sort of equipment they can work on even when they're not online." The availability of Wi-Fi on the trains means that staff don't generally have to go hunting around for hotspots.George Polk, CEO of Wi-Fi provider The Cloud, says usage of wireless hotspots has increased steeply in recent months. He believes that the growth of wireless networks in the office has enabled SMEs to overcome a "psychological hurdle" of thinking wireless is difficult to use: "As they &#91;businesses&#93; adopt wireless networks in their office, it's more and more natural for them to use wireless when they're out." The Cloud has 6,000 hotspots across the UK - in the past year it has taken hotspots out of low-usage locations such as pubs and added more in places like hotels and railway stations.There are reasons to be cautiously optimistic about the prospects for hotspots. The current high connection costs already show signs of coming down, and some outlets are already offering free access. A new company,free-hotspot.com, offers free Wi-Fi access in cafes and other public places such as hospitals: the service is paid for by advertising.Free phone callsWhere it gets really interesting is when free Wi-Fi access is combined with voice over IP (VoIP), a way of making free phone calls over the internet. VoIP provider Skype has already partnered with wireless provider Broadreach to provide VoIP access at 350 hotspots in the UK, and is promising a Wi-Fi-enabled phone later this year. The possibility that we may eventually be able to make completely free phone calls while on the move is a tantalising one for business.Blowers believes that hotspots will really come into their own when mobile travellers are no longer forced to choose between the ubiquity of the 3G or GPRS mobile network and the fast speeds of Wi-Fi, but are able to switch seamlessly between the two. This may not be too far away: BT has just launched DataZone, a service that enables users to connect to the internet via a Wi-Fi hotspot if one is available, and via a 3G or GPRS network if one is not.According to Wright, much of his businesses' success is attributable to the efforts and expertise of the sales team, and Wi-Fi has been an important part of that: "Without the ability of our sales guys to be as productive as they can, developing as fast as we have would have been quite tough."
Thousands of firms in the UK are paying billions of pounds in excess banking charges, and have been doing so for years. That is the stark conclusion of a report into overcharging in the business banking sector.Anglia Business Associates (ABA), the country's largest specialist auditor of bank charges, claims in its report "Bank Overcharges: The Facts" that businesses running loans and overdrafts are owed a total of more than &#163;5bn in historical overcharges. The report says that two-thirds of businesses audited by ABA were paying excess charges and a significant number of those who identified overcharging went on to make successful claims against their banks - in some cases, for sums greater than &#163;10,000.According to ABA, excess charging occurs for a variety of reasons. First, limited competition in the business banking sector has allowed banks to bump up charges without fear of driving customers away. This theory - more a case of high charges than overcharging - is given some credence by the government review of the sector in 2000, in which it accused banks of making huge profits by stifling competition.Additionally, the current low interest rate culture acts as a smokescreen for the charges levied by some banks and there is "significant evidence" to suggest charges may still be being levied in excess of those agreed with the customer, the report says.Human error is also a factor. The report points out that, given the volume of transactions that take place each day in the banking industry, mistakes will be made. For example, when a business was established a number of years ago it will probably have historical banking arrangements that are not as robust and transparent as would be the case now. Less information may be available on statements for customers to check their charges and verbal agreements can easily fail to be recorded accurately in bank records. For these reasons, the ABA suggests businesses employ an auditor.Though overcharging clearly affects some businesses, Brian Capon at the British Bankers Association says the report does not accurately reflect the overall situation.He says: "This &#91;the ABA report&#93; relates only to those businesses that they have audited and also does not differentiate between those where an error has actually occurred and those where the business might have been able, at least on the face of it, to obtain similar services cheaper elsewhere."Businesses that have their accounts audited usually have some form of query about their charges - that's why they get them audited - so the research is based on a self-selecting example, which by its nature would show a high proportion. But you can't apply this percentage right across the board - it's like saying that 80% of the people going to the doctor come away with a prescription; that's not to say that 80% of the population is ill.If you think you are being overcharged, talk to your bank first, says Capon. "Under the Business Banking Code (section 5.5 - Checking your charges and interest), banks will go through your charges, provide details of interest and cleared balances and share their calculations with you - and, if you ask them to, with your advisers.Terms and conditions"Banks publish a tariff of charges and when you arrange an overdraft or loan facility you will receive a facility letter setting out the amount of the facility, charges, interest and any specific terms and conditions. Before the bank takes interest or charges for standard account services, it will give at least 14 days' notice. Where a charge is made for any other service or product, the bank will advise the customer in advance, so there shouldn't be any surprises on either side."If you go overdrawn without making prior arrangements with the bank, you could face charges and higher interest. These will be included in the bank's tariff of charges, but can be avoided if you make arrangements with the bank in advance."If you're looking for a new account, what factors should you consider? It is important to match the requirements of your business with the features of the account that a bank offers. For example, if your business carries out a lot of transactions, you will be better off paying a fixed monthly fee (typically &#163;10) rather than choosing an account that charges you for each individual electronic and paper transaction (usually around 60p for paper and 45p for electronic).Many banks now offer either free transaction costs or interest on current account balances for small business customers as well as portable credit histories which means that if you ask it to do so, a bank will pass on details of your credit history to the new bank if you decide to move elsewhere."There is now a great deal of competition in banking for small businesses," Capon says. "The BBA website includes a Business Account Finder (www.moneyfacts.co.uk) feature that lists over 40 different accounts from almost 30 providers."
Have you ever dreamt of abandoning the daily commute to your office? Would you like to avoid the politics that characterises today's corporations, or have you longed to set your own agenda? Millions of people are now turning to self-employment, but not because they have a desire to become entrepreneurs. In fact, the traditional definition of the entrepreneur is now being challenged.
In research by insurer More Than, a new type of British worker was identified and dubbed the "alterpreneur" (www.alterpreneur.co.uk). The research contradicts the perception that the small business owner is a high risk taker, driven by ambitions to build large companies; this new group of business owners is motivated to become self employed to improve quality of life, and not simply for financial gain.As Rachel Cotton, manager of More Than Business, says: "The traditional
'entrepreneur' has primarily been motivated by growth and money. However, our recent research identified the emergence of a new class of business owner. The majority of today's micro business owners are not striving to be the next Alan Sugar or Richard Branson but have quit the rat-race to seek an alternative to the nine-to-five culture. They are seeking a better quality of life and want to spend more time with family and friends."The restless ageSo who are the alterpreneurs? What motivated them to start their own businesses? And do they really have a better quality of life? Running a business from rural France would be a dream come true for many people who continue to trudge to their offices each day. Peter and Judith Mulcock are living that dream. Judith spent nearly 30 years in the banking sector, but tired of the changes that had taken place in her office."I got increasingly fed up with having to constantly reach targets that would change on a whim," she says. "I was then offered a redundancy package which I jumped at. The package gave me a cushion, and perhaps this then gave me the push to go it alone. This move in turn triggered our move to France instead of me just getting another job."Peter Mulcock has a similar story: "I was sales manager at Hayter that was the leading manufacturer of lawn mowers at the time. The company was sold and with this came new people who had totally different ideas about how to run the company. We had been talking about moving to France for a long time. Our son was also coming up to his move to senior school so we had to make a decision. So with Judith finishing at Lloyds and Hayter being sold to a company I didn't really feel comfortable with, this was a springboard to come to France."With Peter's knowledge of the lawn mower industry they decided to start their own web-based business selling garden machinery. Their first website Classic Lawns (www.classic-lawns.co.uk) was followed by several other websites that diversified the business into other areas.Their business is very much family run, built using Actinic Catalog software. At the time their son Oliver was only 14 years old, but his knowledge of computers and the internet allowed him to build the Classic Lawns website and manage its development.Would they describe themselves as entrepreneurs or alterpreneurs? "We're not big risk takers - something traditional entrepreneurs are usually characterised by," says Peter. "If we've worked hard to get something, we don't put it at risk, so we don't see ourselves as like James Dyson or Richard Branson."Having said that, if you are starting your own business, you have to be prepared to take a risk of some kind. Without a doubt it's like falling off a cliff."
For Dean Smith, who repairs personal computers, starting his business (www.tlcforyourpc.co.uk) didn't involve much soul searching. "There was no 'moment of revelation', but I was helped by being made redundant from my previous long-term employment," he says."I had earned a good salary but it was not providing anything in terms of job satisfaction."His view is that whether you characterise yourself as an entrepreneur or an alterpreneur, the drive to do something different is still the same: "I don't think the entrepreneur of today is a different beast from past decades. I think some people happen upon a successful idea."That success breeds the confidence in the individual to try new ideas, and more importantly provides confidence in the eyes of investors. I doubt that when Richard Branson opened his first record store he had plans to own an airline."The 'alterpreneur' has a different perspective in terms of the initial business setup so is less likely to be so much of a risk taker. Speaking personally, money was much less of a motivator than if I had been setting up business in my 20s. As I have a lesser sense of urgency in my ambition, I will appear to be less entrepreneurial than a youngster with specific targets in terms of earnings."Digital nomadsMany new micro businesses simply wouldn't exist without the internet. Having low start-up costs and the ability to reach a global audience makes online businesses the perfect fit for anyone who wants to make a radical change in their working lives.As More Than's Cotton points out, the alterpreneur and the internet are a partnership made in heaven: "Alterpreneurs have set up on their own in an attempt to take back or gain control over their lives; the internet has given them the freedom to do this by allowing them to set up and run a business from home."The internet provides access to a wealth of information and many alterpreneurs have used it as a starting point to assess and access opportunities. Alterpreneurs are highly motivated and without doubt would have moved into their own business at some point."The internet has definitely contributed to the speed of this process and eased the transition."Having the ability to run a business from just about any location allows the alterpreneur to fulfil ambitions that extend beyond simply escaping from their offices. Peter and Judith Mulcock are expecting broadband access to reach them in rural France over the next three months, which they will use to transform their business. Dean Smith works with technology, but the internet in particular has allowed him to access information and download software that he needs to help his customers. Unlike other businesses, however, his website doesn't bring him a great deal of work, as the vast majority of his clients come to him via word of mouth as his business is aimed at local people. In fact Smith states that he doesn't use any of the technologies he would have on a daily basis when he inhabited the corporate world.The wired generationThe typical alterpreneur may be someone who has been working for several decades, but young people who are entering the workforce for the first time are also looking at alternative working formats, as they also want a better balance between work and their social lives. Research carried out by JA-EY Europe (www.ja-ye.org) clearly shows that young people view entrepreneurship as a viable alternative to simply becoming an employee. Caroline Jenner, CEO at JA-EY Europe, describes the rise of the teen alterpreneur: "I think most young people are very aware that money isn't everything and it is clear that they are not necessarily willing to choose money over a job that brings a good degree of personal satisfaction. Consider the way the students answered other questions about entrepreneurship in our survey: the top two answers at 89% and 83% respectively were that it was in order 'to develop their own career' and 'be independent'. Making money came fourth. And, certainly at the age we are talking about, I am not sure whether it is as much about work/life balance as it is about being creative and 'doing your own thing'."Karoli Hindriks is typical of the new breed of alterpreneur. As a young entrepreneur she became the first student inventor in Estonia. Aged 18 she founded a private company Goodmood (www.goodmood.ee) to produce soft reflectors. Her company has had an average of 60% turnover growth since it began trading.It takes courage, she says, to strike out on your own. "What I believe is that young people see entrepreneurship as an alternative, but still too few have courage to act on it," she says. "The attitude towards the large corporations has become rather negative as it is quite difficult to see the difference one makes when working in a large company."But big companies also offer a sense of security. "In reality, young people see more career opportunities and safer income working in a large corporation. People are afraid to fail and being self-employed has that risk. I believe that this mentality can be changed. The main idea should be that failure is not the end - it's just a lesson. It is also important that the government makes it easy to create a company as well as less painful to end one."Life is short and I do believe that there is more to life than working 100 hours per week. Life around us is so hectic, especially because of the amount of information that we get every day and there should be a balance between private life and work, otherwise it becomes too stressful. My intention is to build up my business, create new businesses and live a normal life - travel, educate myself, build a family etc. I think that being an entrepreneur gives me more freedom to achieve those goals."Quality of lifeSuch thinking is becoming very fashionable. With TV programs such as Channel 4's A Place in the Country and No Going Back illustrating how some people have taken a cold hard look at their lives and not liked what they have seen, people are radically changing the work that they do to try and improve their quality of life.The research group Datamonitor has shown that 200,000 UK workers "downshifted" last year and predicts that this number will reach 3.7m by 2007. Becoming an alterpreneur is now viable for millions of people who have become disillusioned with the work that they do and the lives they are leading.
As David Bolchover concludes, in the end, the rise of the alterpreneur will benefit us all: "Will all the new entrepreneurs and small businesses make it? Will everyone find the lifestyle they want? Of course not," he says."Life will become tougher for many, as expectation rise and competition heats up, and there will be plenty who lack the ability or luck to make new venture work. But tougher doesn't mean worse. Individuals seem increasingly ready to challenge themselves from the start. And it is surely better for society as a whole if more people are at least trying to contribute, rather than sitting on their backsides waiting for their next pay cheque."
Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates was in London today having lunch with 20 of the UK's "top retailers" (members of the British Retail Consortium) and he's also appearing asThe Notorious B.G.-- on MTV. It was an interesting forum. Here, for example, is Gates's response to the idea that the Indians and Chinese are taking American jobs:India and China advancing and getting rich is fantastic news. What that means is that people who have been living in poverty, had ill health and illiteracy, are now getting jobs that allow them to be educated and realize their potential. If we had a choice today where India and China would be as rich as the United States, we should all want that, because not only would it be great for them, but they'd be buying more of our products. ... Their advancing isn't taking away from a finite pool of jobs. What it does is it grows the global economy. It does mean that we have to renew our skills, renew our leadership, and that largely means investing in the education system. So it doesn't have to be a bad thing, it just highlights that we've underinvested in education and in fact other countries do a better job.You can watch the show online if you have Windows Media Player 10.The BBC's Rory Cellan Jones alsointerviewed Gates today, and there's a 2-minute clip of that online. And if that wasn't more than enough, Sir Trevor McDonald interviewed him on ITV.Oh yes. the UK retailers got stuff about sharing information and supply chain technologies taking time to mature.Update:Plus... even more Bill Gates in the Guardian, with a Home news story --Gates unveils his vision of a future made of silicon, by Owen Gibson -- plus a Media Guardian backgrounder,Bill Gates at 50, from Bobbie Johnson!
This morning I went to a government-dominated press conference, which is pretty unusual. I'm not all that used to mingling with ministers and senior officials from the Cabinet Office, not to mention Detective Chief Superintendent Sharon Lemon, who is head of the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit.The hoohah was to launch not just a website,Get Safe Online, but a national campaign to reverse the tide of viruses, Trojans, phishing attacks and similar problems. I've reported ithere, but our Technology section prefigured the launch in Maggie Brown's story'We can no longer treat computers as toasters'last week.The silicon.com website has revealed thatThe cost of joining Get Safe Onlineis "between £50,000 and £150,000," but there's nothing new or unusual about getting money from sponsors -- it's what sponsors are for -- in exchange for associated publicity. (The representative from Yell.com, for example, was just on the radio news.) If you have that sort of spare cash, you too can apply toSponsor Get Safe Online.Microsoft's sponsorship doesn't stop the site from saying,for example: "Firefox is a free, open-source web browser that can be used instead of (or in addition to) Internet Explorer. Many people prefer it because it has extra features like tabbed browsing but its growing popularity is mainly due to the fact that it is considered safer than Internet Explorer." And providing a link toDownload Firefox.
In the unlikely videogame story of the day, it turns out Pac-Man willspeakin his latest adventure, Pac-Man World 3 - apparently to celebrate the character's 25th anniversary. After a rigorous casting session sound specialists Outsource Media selected the actor Martin T Sherman as the voice of Namco's circular legend. Allegedly, Sherman can be 'seen' in Gangs of New York, Batman Returns and Band of Brothers, although a quick check on the Internet Movie Database reveals astringof videogame voice-overs and no mention of the above movies. The actor said:"I've been the voice of many different characters but Pac-Man is without doubt the most fun and the most difficult – I mean, what is a yellow, ghost-eating circle supposed to sound like? Me, apparently! I had a great time recording this voice and can't wait to see how people react to it."Aaaah dear, bless the modern games industry. It has become Disneyland. Heritage is real estate. It is there to be developed, exploited, saturated. What next? 'Space Invaders sue for peace'? You have to laugh don't you? You have to laugh.
Once tipped to be the biggest thing in phones since text messaging, over-the-air music downloads - where a person chooses a track on the web which is then sent to the phone - have been slow to take off in the UK.There are good reasons for this. Many of the compatible phones are high-end handsets that are beyond the financial reach of the young users most likely to want the service. But the biggest drawback is that - up until now - those tracks have only been playable on a phone. If a person loses their SIM card or their handset, they have no backup and the track is gone forever.Last week Orange attempted to resolve some of the key issues by enabling users to control the movement of tracks to and from their phone via a web interface. This at least means that they can add the downloaded tracks to a new, or replacement handset.Yet arguably the biggest innovation comes from 3, which has become the first UK network to offer what it calls "dual downloads". Put simply, when a person downloads a &pound;1.50 track, they are also sent a code via SMS. They can then download the same track to their PC by inputting the code on 3's music website.The tracks that are loaded on to the PC are in the secure Windows Media Audio (WMA) format, the same as Napster, and are at a decent bitrate of 128kbps. The tracks that are stored on the phone are in the AAC format, which is used by almost all networks at slightly lower quality.Overall, it's a good service, although it took around 90 minutes for the WMA codes to come through. The PC downloads won't work with Macs, and you have to use Internet Explorer and Windows Media Player 9 or 10. And there are only 5,000 tracks available, which is small potatoes when compared with the 1.7m songs that iTunes offers.Still, I bet it won't be too long before other networks offer a similar service.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I have never been a big fan of photo-sharing websites such asFlickr.com, even when they are given fancy names like "social networking". It is bad enough having to fend off friends advancing towards you with fat wads of holiday snaps without having half the bloggers in the world trying to nobble you into watching their smiling faces blot out whatever building is lurking behind.I know it is more sophisticated than that and, yes, there is a merit in having photos tagged with identifying names - say the Louvre or Hurricane Katrina - so that you can look at submissions from likeminded people around the world in one place. But the novelty of seeing hundreds of people grinning inanely at the camera in front of Buckingham Palace soon wears off.But new applications are coming on stream which take photoblogging on to a higher plain. Take the recently launchedShozu.com: at the moment it only works on some Symbian phones (a range of Nokia, Siemens and Sony Ericsson handsets), but there are plans to extend it. Once you have downloaded the software to your phone from Shozu's website and signed up for an account at Flickr.com - now owned by Yahoo - you are ready to go.Now simply take a photo with your cameraphone in the normal way and when you start to send it an option springs up saying "Save to Flickr". When you click this it automatically goes by wireless transmission to your Flickr photo account, where it can be viewed on a computer screen anywhere in the world by other users. You can also write words to accompany the photo by choosing the "Open Shozu" option.So, you can forget the complications of setting up your phone for mobile blogging ("moblogging") because sending pictures to the web can be done now with a single click. You can configure your onscreen Flickr account to display your photos sequentially with a date, rather like a conventional blog. Registration is free but photos are charged by the data they use up - about 12p for a low-res picture in the UK.I went for a walk taking regular snaps, and they were all on the screen when I got home. Although I waited until I was back to write captions for each photo, I could have done it on the move: it's something that could make "citizen journalism" a lot easier since it would be very easy for one person to cover an event all day with their camera.Opera, the Norwegian company that runs an admirable bespoke browser for mobile phones, has just launched its own impressive blogging site to which you can also send photos by phone - though it needs a few more more clicks than Shozu's because you have to access an email address through your contacts list rather than this being done automatically. Flickr supports this option, too, and another application in this area to watch for isfotolibra.com, based in Cardiff. Fotolibra claims to be the "the world's first fully online, open-access picture library". The idea came to the originator when a water-burst in the attic destroyed family albums full of treasured photos. The thought then occurred that if they had only been digitised, a publisher or someone else might have been interested in buying them.So fotolibra.com was set up, enabling punters to upload any pictures - from newsy ones to archive material - to a site where they can be viewed, or purchased. If you sign up, your first five photos are free to upload, then you have to pay &pound;6 a month, which entitles you to 2Gb of storage. If a picture is sold, the proceeds are split 50/50 between you and the company. They are beginning to build up a workable base (there are, for example, 45 art deco photos in its claimed library of 65,000 images) and it is pretty easy to upload your own photos to the library.This won't put the big photo libraries out of business, but it is yet another example of the innovations coming from grassroots projects on the web. Some of them will be very successful.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
My five-year-old desktop PC has died, and I want to buy something new. I am confused that, in some brands, there seem to be more Celerons than Pentium 4 chips. What should I be looking for? Gordon MurrayPCs are now so fast that almost any machine will perform well for general purpose computing, assuming it has enough memory. Windows XP SP2 will run in 128 megabytes, but 256MB is now a practical minimum, and 512MB or more is recommended. People doing heavyweight tasks such as movie editing and professional desktop publishing often go for 2GB.Memory is also crucial to processor performance, and in general, faster Intel chips have more built-in cache memory. Celerons have least, and Xeons have most, with Pentiums in the middle. Intel sells the Celeron line as a budget version of the Pentium, and sometimes errs by making the chips either not powerful enough or too powerful. Today's Celeron D 336 is slower than a Pentium 4 but reasonable value for most purposes, apart from serious gaming. See http://theinquirer.net/?article=26628 for more information (which includes AMD chips).The cheapest PCs are built down to a price, and often economise by using motherboards with built-in sound and graphics. These are certainly good enough for most business purposes, but if you are planning to use your PC for entertainment, it's worth getting one with separate sound and graphics cards - and it may be worth paying a bit extra for better loudspeakers. (Vista, the next version of Windows, needs a 3D graphics card compatible with DirectX 9 and a recommended 128MB of memory for the full Aero Glass user interface.)Another thing that makes a big difference is the size and quality of the screen. A PC becomes much more usable if you can have multiple programs spread out, and movies, of course, look much more impressive. The arrival of mass-market LCDs means big screens no longer take up a ridiculous amount of space, so get the biggest and sharpest you can afford. To make maximum use of your screen, add a Freeview TV tuner card.
Is it safer to share documents as .rtf than .doc files? William ThomasYes, it's more secure to save documents as .rtf (Rich Text Format) files rather than .doc, Microsoft's Word document format, because this avoids the risk of so-called macro viruses. The last significant infection was Melissa in 1999, and it's a long time since I've seen one in the wild. Bear in mind that if you receive an RTF file, you can't assume it's safe. Anyone can rename a .doc file to end with .rtf and Word will still load it. The only way to be sure is to look at it in text editor, such as Notepad: RTF is a text based format whereas .doc files are binary. Also, while RTF works well with text files, complex illustrated Word documents can become very large .rtf files.Web extra:I didn't have space to say this in print (though I've said it before), but as far as possible I'd avoid storing any data in a proprietary file format, and Microsoft's Word doc is one of those. Although Microsoft also invented RTF, it's more widely supported and, if the worst comes to the worst, still contains your original text.Update:In an email, Mark Pack adds a good point:As you say in today's paper, saving documents as rtf rather than doc helps protect against (now) rare macro virus. I think more importantly it's a good simple way of minimising the chance of including embarrassing information in the file by mistake (eg track changes information). I advise people to always save as rtf when a document is going to be distributed as it's much easier than having a set of instructions which covers every possible permutation of Word version, track changes setting, default save settings etc.
My Windows ME computer contains hundreds of files with names that range from CA00.IDX through to CHFF.IDX. Can I delete them? Trevor OwenThese sound like temporary index files created by a program such as Nero when burning a CD. Usually they are deleted when it completes the process. It's never a good idea to delete unknown files out of hand, but you can move them all to a temporary folder and see if any program misses them. If nothing complains after a week or so, delete them.
Last week Google was forced to rebrand its Gmail service in the UK to Google Mail after London-based Independent International Investment Research claimed it registered the trademark in 2002.Now another claimant, Norwegian software vendor Gallagher &amp; Robertson, has entered the fray, stating that it first used the Gmail name in 1989 when it decided to rename an email program it first developed in 1984. Since then, the program has been sold as Gmail in the UK, Europe, and the US."We have never come across this product before, so on that test we don't seem to conflict or cause confusion to each other," said Shane Smith, IIIR's chairman and chief executive. "If someone else has superior rights to ours, we would concede that they own it. We wish that Google would have adopted this stance."Mail orderMichael Sand&#248;y, Gallagher &amp; Robertson's general manager, says that his users have reacted to Google's use of the Gmail name, believing that there is a connection. "Although Gallagher &amp; Robertson never registered the Gmail trademark we have, through the use of the Gmail trademark over the last 15 years, undoubtedly obtained rights to the trademark Gmail in connection with services related to opening, processing and exchanging electronic mail."Being a small independent software vendor, it is impossible for us to sell and market a product under a name used by a giant company such as Google. On these grounds we are in dialogue with Google, and we will investigate our rights relative to IIIR in the UK, and other companies that rather recently have started to use the Gmail trademark," says Sand&#248;y.Despite capitulating over a name change to its new service in the UK, Google had previously described IIIR's claim as tenuous. It appears to dismiss the Norwegian software company's claim, too. "Norway is a country that requires registration in order to acquire trademark rights. Gallagher &amp; Robertson does not own a registration for Gmail," said a company spokesperson.Some critics have said that claimants such as IIIR are just out to make a quick profit, but Smith hit back at such accusations last week with an open letter in which he says that he has a duty to shareholders to protect the company's assets - and that Google ignored the company until the damage was done."We launched our service two years ahead of Google's own, and commercial exploitation of a trademark is absolutely central to gaining rights to that mark. Sure, we didn't register the trademark before we launched our product - but neither did Google before it launched its own. Our excuse is that we are small, and lack resources sometimes to do things the way we would like. The facts are that both our product launch and our trademark registrations precede those of Google. Google cannot substantiate its statement that our claim is tenuous."Smith also says that Google made a very low offer of compensation. However, should Gallagher &amp; Robertson discover any grounds, that could complicate matters further.Common law rightsDavid Engel, a commercial litigation partner in the legal firm Addleshaw Goddard, says that Google has trademark applications pending for Gmail. The process can take 18 months to two years before registration is granted. "You can acquire rights in a name whether or not you have a trademark," adds Engel. "There are common law rights as opposed to statutory rights which are the protection enjoyed under the Trademarks Act 1994. IIIR would have acquired common law rights in the name by prior use. I don't know what the position is under Norwegian law."Engel says that prior use, advertising and publicity all help acquire common law rights irrespective of the trademark. "The trademark application procedure is open to any other person who says that they have a prior right to the name to begin opposition proceedings."An independent valuation published on IIIR's website puts the value of the Gmail trademark at &pound;25-&pound;34m, although Smith indicates that his company was prepared to accept a $500,000 annual licence payment and $500,000 in advertising credits to help rebrand its service.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Time for another edition of the Technology Guardian print supplement.In the lead story this week, we ask whether we'reexperiencing a new dotcom bubble. The man answering that question is Henry Blodget - the Wall Street analyst who helped cheerlead the dotcom bubble but found himself in trouble after the crash. He doesn't mince his words:The giddiness at internet industry confabs - where attendees babble about 'revolutions' and 'web 2.0' - suggests bubble-headed exuberance is alive and well.Go andread the rest of what Henry Blodget has to say.Elsewhere we test outSky's Gnome, try to work out which of thebig two football gamesis really the best, examine a new online initiative to getyoung people making musicand discover that there could be a new claimant in theGmail trademark row.Click herefor the complete contents.
Project Entropiahas made the virtual world headlines again, not long after wow-ing the mainstream media streams with news of a$26,000 virtual islandsold via auction to a player in its digital universe. This time they've quadrupled the stakes with thesale of a space stationfor $100K to a player called Jon NEVERDIE Jacobs.For his cash he gets:Boasting a 1000 Apartment complex, Commercial Space Ship Docking, Themed Shopping Mall, Mega Stadium for championship sporting events, Nightclub with multiple Dance floors, Live Amphitheater, lounges, and 10 Hunting Biodomes with individual land management facilities which will enable the creative owner to create Rare, Unique and Exotic creatures. Mining and PVP areas are available. In addition the Resort will feature Owner Operated PA System for Streaming Music and Video to biodomes and screens/billboards strategically placed throughout the space resort and for a fee even a Planet side Video Billboard Network located in all major towns and cities can be accessed for marketing.Unfortunately,No teleporter available at the resort, travel to and from the resort only by Space ships.No central storage available at Space Resort.Who in the (real) world invests in this kind of thing?!More coverage atTerra Novaand at The Guardianhere,here,hereandhereetcetc.
Another week, another Technology section. Thereviewpitches Pro Evo 5 against FIFA 2006 with an outcome that may surprise you. Well it surprised me anyway - Pro Evo is far superior to FIFA's midfield sloggery, even if the latter has raised its game this time round. Continuing the footy theme I have a good reminisce about thegreat soccer gamesfrom the past, from International Soccer on the C64 to ISS Deluxe on the SNES. The best of course, being Sensible World of Soccer. And then there is our very own Aleks, who experiences a very differentreactionto me when she tells people what she does for a living. I either get a patronising smile or an immediate request for a copy of the latest game, with the response usually depending on the age and gender of the person.
"Over half of the UK population have little or no knowledge of how to use the internet safely," according to John Hutton, the minister for the Cabinet Office in charge of e-government, "and most people are unaware of what to do to make themselves secure".The answer? A government campaign, reinforced by the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit and backed by suppliers such as BT, Dell, eBay, Lloyds TSB and Microsoft, to educate the population, and to persuade them to take responsibility for their actions online.The campaign started this morning with a video-recorded message from the prime minister, Tony Blair, and the launch of a Get Safe Online website atwww.getsafeonline.org. It continues with a fleet of Minis touring the country, taking the campaign from Bristol and Cardiff (October 31) to Edinburgh and Glasgow (November 10).No wonder they're worried. UK government has invested vast sums in e-government, and as Mr Blair claimed, by the end of this year, "96% of public services will be available online". And as Mr Hutton added, online sales this Christmas are expected to reach &#163;5.5 bn.The Get Safe Online website urges home and small business computer users to install anti-spyware, anti-virus software and a firewall, and to keep their operating system software patched up to date.It also urges people to behave safely. "GSO is about encouraging people to use their common sense when they are online, just as they do on the street," Mr Hutton said.But shouldn't the PC industry be doing more to help, by not shipping PCs that are so vulnerable to attack?Peter Hubbard, from Dell, said the company's website encouraged people to make safe choices. "We look to the industry to provide the best anti-virus software and leave it to people to decide," he said. "We're here to encourage them to take charge of their own destiny, as it were."So if your PC gets taken over by some criminal hacker working for the Russian mafia, tough.Microsoft's Nick McGrath, who is driving the first Mini to Bristol, said "the concept of shipping more secure systems is integral to what we're doing at Microsoft", pointing to the vast sums spent on the company's Trustworthy Computing initiative. "With the launch of Windows XP SP2, there's been a significant reduction in security problems. We're getting a lot better, but we realise we still have a long way to go."Microsoft says SP2, a free upgrade to XP, was downloaded by 218 million users in its first year. But there may still be a few hundred million people not using it.Get Safe Online follows initiatives such asiSafein the US,BeWebAwarein Canada, and similar campaigns in Europe, because this is a global problem. No one thinks it's a solution, but that it's worth the effort if it makes things a little better.
One of the reactions I get when people discover the true gender of this hardened games journalist is a typical response recognisable to others who do things outside of their socially condoned remit: "What?" they gulp. "But ... but ... you're a girl! You couldn't possibly play games!"What they mean is that I'm not a socially inept, spotty teenage boy who prefers dark rooms to the company of others. But I do play games, and I wear my gamer badge proudly: it's my own grassroots form of revolution.I can't blame the cynics. The gamer schema is steeped in both historical precedents and contemporary branding. Arcades in the early 1980s were overpopulated by unsociable teenage boys playing unaesthetic machines that bleeped and blipped. But things have moved on as technology has advanced, and players have demanded more subtle nuances for their grownup tastes.Unfortunately for the industry, the folks who are pushing contemporary products are still rewarded for throwing surprisingly proportioned female characters into their advertising or on to a showroom floor. Their established audience (read: boys) flocks to these images, but it doesn't do much for the idea of gaming as something for everyone.Most games-related coverage is seen by non-gamers as a sideshow freak-style curiosity. To date, there are fewer than five games that have been advertised in women's magazines: that's a pretty poor showing for the 600-plus released every year. Instead, games information is placed in specialist press and men's lifestyle mags.There is a more elemental issue than the gender divide at play here, one usually overshadowed by the question of women in games: namely, it's not just women who don't play games. According to a recent Elspa-sponsored GameVision report, there's a whopping 49% of British men who don't either.Sure, I've used the female gamer discontinuity to great advantage. It gets me into parties, and I never have to wait for the loo at industry conferences. It can be rather lonely at times, but along the way other women have emerged from their interactive entertainment closets. When we meet, we go through a kind of ritual: instead of swapping Sex and the City stories, we try to outdo one another with tales of bravery against the Flood in Halo or pitstop politics in MotoGP 3. Then we embrace, and move on to talking about lipstick.The more that we alternative gamers are loud and proud, the broader the demographic appears, and through this simple act games will be revolutionised. That's when the big kids will inherit the earth.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Flashing your boobs at a stranger over a webcam has generally been regarded as something that prostitutes do to mucky men in some of the dodgier corners of the internet. However, an enterprising North Yorkshire company has turned the webcam into a hi-tech aid to achieving the perfect bra fit.Bra fitting is a notoriously tricky art, relying partly on tape measures and partly on a well-trained eye. While companies such as Bravissimo and Rigby &amp; Peller have strong online presences, you're still best going to a shop for a proper fitting.However, realising that that's not always possible, Fishnets Lingerie in Whitby (www.fishnets-lingerie.co.uk) has come up with an idea that allows customers who can't make the trek to the fishing town to shop with confidence. All you need is broadband, a webcam and the latest version of Microsoft MSN Messenger.It's not wholly interactive: you need to book an appointment either by email or by online chat via MSN. However, it's a surprisingly pleasant experience. Shop owner Olivia Wells and her assistant Rachel got me to measure under my bra and under my arms, and then - this was the pervy bit - take my top off in front of the webcam so they could assess how well my bra fitted. I'd been fitted fairly recently, and they showed me some of the bras they have in my size: Olivia waving them under the webcam and Rachel tapping away at the computer."We like to spend a lot of time with our customers," says Olivia. To that end appointments are usually scheduled outside regular opening hours, but even on a Thursday morning both had plenty of time to spend with me.We narrowed my choice down to two bras - both by a brand I don't usually buy. Although the website is well designed, it doesn't have its own secure server, so payment is either by WorldPay or by ringing up with your credit card details, which are destroyed as soon as payment is approved.So I'm waiting for my purchases to arrive. And if I don't like them, I can return them as long as they are in the original condition.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Healthy pursuitFurther to Steven Johnson's article on the positive effects of videogames (What's in a game?, October 20), it's worth pointing out that they have also been used positively in a wide variety of health and therapeutic contexts because of their absorbing and distracting nature.Earlier this year I published a review in the British Medical Journal on the subject and concluded that they can be of great benefit to a wide variety of different subgroups. They can provide pain relief for children undergoing chemotherapy, as well as individuals with muscular dystrophy, burns, strokes, and impaired movement.Videogames have also been used innovatively with children undergoing psychotherapy, and those with emotional and behavioural problems (such as ADD, impulsivity, and autism). In the right context, videogames can have positive consequences.Professor Mark GriffithsNottingham Trent University, NottinghamSteven Johnson is right - videogames are worthy of coverage alongside books, film and ballet. Which is why it is frustrating and ironic that his article appears on the front page of the Technology section.Television, radio and the internet were all once tarred with the "geek" image - but when they became easy to use, people started to focus on what the machines did, rather than how they did it. Videogames consoles have long been equally easy to use, but some parts of the media have still to catch up.Lee CheshireLondonSteven Johnson makes a good case for computer games to be considered alongside other cultural forms, but it doesn't really wash. To be a cultural phenomenon, doesn't something need to aspire to be life-changing, to try to alter the way we see the world - such as novels, poetry, some movies, much art? Aren't they usually the work of the imagination of one "artist" (or a very small group) reaching out to a large number of people?Whereas a computer game is very often a solitary pursuit, designed simply for entertainment. Perhaps it has got more in common with fishing: just a hugely popular way to get some time on your own.Philip ThomasHitchinSteven Johnson's defence of the idea that computer games are a valid form of cultural and artistic expression was developed around two points: that they are mentally time-consuming and represent complex theories of societal relationships. To be time-consuming is a hallmark of a world-ignoring addictiveness that cannot be defined as a positive thing. And if he thinks that The Sims - a game where you make sure your pixel-people go to the toilet on time - is an interesting theory of society, might I recommend reading Plato's Republic instead?Games are devices for leisure, and finding too much importance in them causes you to fail to contribute meaningfully to the world.Thomas TaylorBirminghamAlternative sourceAllan Jones (Letters, October 20) does not have to use "ghastly RealPlayer" software. Real Alternative works fine with the BBC's streaming content. I also use Total Recorder to record a streaming download to mp3 that I can transfer to my MP3 player and listen to offline.Phil ShottonWest SussexBetter safe than sorrySo James Russell (Technobile, October 20) had his accounts, several articles and the bones of a novel on his G3 iMac when it died. And he hadn't backed up any of it. Hasn't he heard of USB flash drives? Save as you go?Ken AshtonPrestatynBlogBackThe funny thing about Vertu's very expensive phones (The ring of bling, October 20) is that P Diddy already has one and actually thinks this adds to his street credibility. When are they going to introduce a cellphone with big shiny rims that spin?MinneapolisMikeHuffingtonPost.com
International Soccer (1983)One of the first proper football games, International Soccer was a minor classic. Taking a side-on view, IS's amazing - for the time - graphics allowed gamers to really feel that they were on the pitch. The fact that it came on a cartridge, while most games on the Commodore 64 were on tape, only enhanced its hi-tech feel. Unfortunately, it is mainly remembered for some terrible goalkeeping and for a ball that looked suspiciously square. But International Soccer was an 1980s gem, and there was an updated version, Emlyn Hughes International Soccer (1988), which improved the action further and is still oddly playable today.Kick Off 2 (1990)Ridiculously fast, Kick Off 2 was a top-down game that demanded Zen-like skill with the joystick. This was because the ball didn't stick to your player's feet, making dribbling difficult and shooting a challenge. Like Pro Evo today, the initial difficulty level meant skilled players could thrive and flukey goals were rare. This sequel added aftertouch - being able to curl the ball after you've kicked it - which only bolstered a skilled player's armoury. Even the made-up player names, thankfully not mis-spelt versions of real ones, added to the game's character. Despite often feeling more like pinball than football, Kick Off 2 is a favourite that lives on through the web.Sensible Soccer (1992)This game was the real deal. Sensible Soccer mixed manic action with subtle touches. The top-down view was similar to Kick Off's, and allowed players to see a large proportion of the pitch while constructing slick passing moves. Pinging the ball around was a joy, and shooting - especially when after-touch was applied - was varied and satisfying. Like Kick Off, Sensible Soccer bore little relation to the real sport, although later versions contained real team and player names. The Sega Mega Drive version of the game was re-released recently on one of those plug-into-the-telly toys, but the only real way to play is via joystick.ISS Deluxe (1995)Before Pro Evolution there was ISS. Deluxe came out on the Super Nintendo (SNES) and quickly became the purist's instrument of choice. Even on the SNES's limited hardware, the game looked great and - crucially - felt realistic. It offered a level of control that was rare at the time, with defending a real option. It managed to balance the fancy tricks and flicks that arcade gamers were used to with a depth that only became apparent after continued play. Eventually eclipsed by Konami's other football brand, Winning Eleven/Pro Evolution, ISS Deluxe is still worth a kickabout today.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Little by little, Sky has been working to take over your home. First it offered the Sky+ recorder and gave you a good reason to pension off your VCR. Then came Sky multiroom, and the option of watching Sky signals on other sets in your home. And now we have the Gnome, which Sky is pitching as an alternative to DAB digital radios.The &pound;70 Gnome wirelessly accesses the audio feed from the satellite receiver which it then pumps out via a pair of stereo speakers. Not only does the listener have the choice of the radio channels the Sky satellite system offers - many more than DAB radios - but users can also listen to TV channels to catch the audio commentary of, say, the big game on Sky Sports.It is simple to set up, too, as it comes with a base unit that connects to the Sky box, which transmits its audio feed over FM (it has a reach of around 30m from the Sky box) to the Gnome.In theory, the Gnome should be no-brainer for Sky satellite-system owners. It is cheap, easy to set up and delivers good sound quality - slightly below DAB quality, but certainly better than FM. However, before Sky subscribers shell out for the box, there are a few things to bear in mind. Its big limitation is that it can only play back the channel that the Sky box is currently tuned to. This if fine if the TV is off - but if someone switches the TV on, then Gnome listeners may suddenly find the system jumping from station to station as someone channel-hops.Another weak point is that changing channels is rather fiddly. Users can either input a channel number on the Gnome or use the channel up and down buttons. Fortunately users can store their 10 favourite stations as presets. One last irritant is that there is no mute button, which is highly annoying when the phone rings.These quibbles aside, there is still a strong case for Sky owners to add the Gnome to their shopping list this Christmas. It is around the same price as a low-end digital radio and has a lot more channels.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The process of getting a prescription is one of the most time-honoured traditions of the NHS, but if ministers get their way it will be a thing of the past. Plans to computerise the paperchase in prescribing medicines were revealed this week, as one of the main objectives in the world's largest civil IT programme.By the end of 2007, every GP and chemist's shop in England will be connected - but it will not mean the end of paper prescriptions, the official in charge said this week.Nearly everyone agrees that the prescribing procedure used by the health service is daft. This year, clinicians will write 350m prescriptions. At nine out of 10 GP surgeries, they are printed out by computers, then signed by hand. At the pharmacy, details are re-entered into a dispensing computer system which prints them out again for sending to the Prescription Pricing Authority in Newcastle upon Tyne. A regiment of clerks then enter data into a system for calculating payments. With the volume of prescriptions growing at more than 5% a year, officials have decided this simply cannot continue."The system is really creaking and probably unsustainable in the long term," says Tim Donohoe, the head of the electronic prescribing project. Apart from the waste of paper and manpower, current practice is also open to fraud. And, at its worst, it can kill people too, because doctors and pharmacists don't know what other drugs patients are taking.Long historyAmbitions to computerise procedures date back many years. In 1998, the NHS set targets for hospitals to install computer-aided prescribing systems, and five years ago it announced three pilots to test paperless prescriptions by linking GP practices and pharmacies. In 2002, these projects were absorbed into the NHS national programme for IT, which announced that electronic prescriptions would be one of the three new services to be enabled by a &#163;6bn investment in IT.However, prescribing medicines in the NHS is a more complicated business than the programme's authors seem to have imagined. As most high street chemists are private businesses, there are practical and ethical difficulties in allowing them into the NHS computer system. Plans also had to be put on hold while the government pondered whether to allow supermarkets into the business. A five-page "implementation strategy" published earlier this month suggests that the electronic prescription project is now moving forward - but cautiously and with key questions to do with medical confidentiality remaining to be answered.The strategy describes four phases of work. The first phase involved testing the first release of software at a small number of sites, and the next is nationwide deployment. But 21st century technology it is not. Patients still collect a paper prescription, which is signed by hand but contains a bar code. This will allow pharmacies to call up details of the prescription from a central database via the secure NHS network.GPs are already connecting to the service at the rate of 10 a week; this will accelerate rapidly from next month, says Donohoe.Further along in the process, the paper prescription will be replaced by a "token" - in practice another bar-coded piece of paper. Doctors will transmit the real prescription, electronically signed, to whichever pharmacy the patient chooses. The plan is for this to happen by the end of 2007. And every chemist will receive &#163;2,600 for new IT, and a regular sum to pay for connections to the NHS net.Competing policiesMany complications remain. Apart from upgrading and replacing IT systems across England, pharmacists will need to be issued with smartcards to get access to the network. Even if all goes according to plan, Donohoe says, "We won't see the end of paper prescriptions for some time."Apart from a need to have a backup in case the IT fails, several government policies compete with the NHS's electronic ambitions. Ministers have demanded the electronic prescription should not limit patient choices, and the systems must be portable between England, Scotland and Wales - all of which have their own NHS systems and policies. And, crucially, the law requires prescriptions for controlled drugs such as morphine to be hand-written. But all these complications are dwarfed by the question of patient confidentiality.Donohoe says that electronic prescription will become part of the NHS electronic care record "over time". However the NHS has not yet decided how much access high street chemists should have to patients' health records: even a list of drugs prescribed can reveal much about an individual's medical history.The Department of Health says it will hold a public consultation on the issue, but things still seem far from clear. "There are interesting discussions ahead," says Donohoe.
Iris recognition technologies have not been as readily accepted as electronic fingerprinting, but last week a biometrics conference was told that new developments proved it was the most accurate identification system available.Details of a number of iris-reading schemes, which measure the unique pattern around the pupil of the eye and record it in a database, were unveiled at the Biometrics 2005 meeting in London. Such technologies are already being employed by governments around the world, and systems developed in Britain have been used to expel more than 50,000 illegal immigrants from United Arab Emirates.Major Barakat Al Kindy of the UAE police said that his country's system - which is based on computer analysis pioneered by John Daugman, a professor at Cambridge University - had proved "fast and able to identify the right person with 100% no mistakes".More than 130 cameras for recording iris images have been installed at border crossings, passport control desks in airports and deportation centres across the country, he said. "Our problem was one most countries face. When you expel someone, they have a chance to go away, change their name or nationality and come back with a different identity."The system has had extensive success, said Major Al Kindy. "On the first day a camera was put in Abu Dhabi airport, we caught someone coming back &#91;illegally&#93; into the country. The database now contains iris codes from 800,000 people. So far 50,452 people have been caught &#91;since October 2003&#93; and not allowed back in the country."The effectiveness of the system has been studied by Home Office researchers who are conducting trials on eye-scanning technology to speed frequent flyers through Heathrow, Gatwick and other UK airports. Eye scanners are used as security devices inside the Bank of England, and the DVLA at Swansea is considering using iris recognition technology for the next generation of driving licences.A recent trial for frequent flyers at Frankfurt airport produced less impressive results, but had not used the recommended mathematical modelling, insisted Daugman.There have been attempts to fool the system by using eyedrops to dilate the pupils and make the iris smaller, but experts say the system has been refined to spot such tricks. "It's quite easy to detect if pupils are too large. The database in the UAE spans nationals from 152 countries. It's comparing 200bn pairings: it's almost impossible to get an accidental match," said Daugman.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
PC shoppingMy five-year-old desktop PC has died, and I want to buy something new. I am confused that, in some brands, there seem to be more Celerons than Pentium 4 chips. What should I be looking for?Gordon MurrayJack Schofield replies:PCs are now so fast that almost any machine will perform well for general purpose computing, assuming it has enough memory. Windows XP SP2 will run in 128 megabytes, but 256MB is now a practical minimum, and 512MB or more is recommended. People doing heavyweight tasks such as movie editing and professional desktop publishing often go for 2GB.Memory is also crucial to processor performance, and in general, faster Intel chips have more built-in cache memory. Celerons have least, and Xeons have most, with Pentiums in the middle. Intel sells the Celeron line as a budget version of the Pentium, and sometimes errs by making the chips either not powerful enough or too powerful. Today's Celeron D 336 is slower than a Pentium 4 but reasonable value for most purposes, apart from serious gaming. Seehttp://theinquirer.net/?article=26628for more.The cheapest PCs are built down to a price, and often economise by using motherboards with built-in sound and graphics. These are certainly good enough for most business purposes, but if you are planning to use your PC for entertainment, it's worth getting one with separate sound and graphics cards - and it may be worth paying a bit extra for better loudspeakers. (Vista, the next version of Windows, needs a 3D graphics card compatible with DirectX 9 and a recommended 128MB of memory for the full Aero Glass user interface.)Another thing that makes a big difference is the size and quality of the screen. A PC becomes much more usable if you can have multiple programs spread out, and movies, of course, look much more impressive. The arrival of mass-market LCDs means big screens no longer take up a ridiculous amount of space, so get the biggest and sharpest you can afford. To make maximum use of your screen, add a Freeview TV tuner card.Unwanted filesMy Windows ME computer contains hundreds of files with names that range from CA00.IDX through to CHFF.IDX. Can I delete them?Trevor OwenJS:These sound like temporary index files created by a program such as Nero when burning a CD. Usually they are deleted when it completes the process. It's never a good idea to delete unknown files out of hand, but you can move them all to a temporary folder and see if any program misses them. If nothing complains after a week or so, delete them.Rich textIs it safer to share documents as .rtf than .doc files?William ThomasJS:Yes, it's more secure to save documents as .rtf (Rich Text Format) files rather than .doc, Microsoft's Word document format, because this avoids the risk of so-called macro viruses. The last significant infection was Melissa in 1999, and it's a long time since I've seen one in the wild. Bear in mind that if you receive an RTF file, you can't assume it's safe. Anyone can rename a .doc file to end with .rtf and Word will still load it. The only way to be sure is to look at it in text editor, such as Notepad: RTF is a textbased format whereas .doc files are binary. Finally, while RTF workswell with text files, complex illustrated Word documents can become very large .rtf files.Backchat&#183;Last week, Martin King asked about transferring cassette tapes to CD. Rod Warrington says he found it easy with Magix Audio Cleaning Lab software. Robert Shaw points out that you can fit a PlusDeck 2 cassette deck to your PC - it fits a 5.25in drive bay - to simplify the process. Rod Bushell bought a Sony RCD-W3 compact disc recorder for his hi-fi, making "excellent tape-to-CD copies" without using a PC at all.
